Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Kent

 Unit of Assessment: 33: Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The School of Arts is a dynamic, multidisciplinary, and socially engaged unit within the Division
 (former Faculty) of Arts and Humanities. The School comprises 36 (32.75 FTE) researchers
 working across the live, visual, and recorded arts. The recent introduction and rapid growth of
 Media Studies, including the appointment of two ECRs, has expanded our disciplinary expertise
 beyond Film, Drama, History of Art, and Music, and made a significant contribution to our impact
 profile. Building on our 2014 research strategy, we have focused on collaborative, publicly
 engaged, and interdisciplinary projects. This has resulted in an increasingly ambitious and creative
 portfolio of research outputs and impact; £2,254,622 grant income; and an almost 300% increase
 in PGR completions.

 Research is generated through four Research Groups (RGs). These were launched following a
 review of existing Research Centres and a staff-wide consultation which identified the need for a
 structure based on greater collaboration, inclusion, and responsiveness to external and internal
 opportunities. The RGs are:

    Histories and Historiography. Focusing on cultural histories of arts practices and industries,
    as well as on artistic representations of community, identity, and society throughout history,
    this RG has strengths in international (including Eastern European, Greek, Indian) and popular
    arts (including melodrama, alternative comedy, Hollywood). Postgraduate students play a
    strong leadership role, most prominently through running a subsidiary melodrama film series.
    Major achievements include archives such as the Great War Theatre Database (AHRC) and
    British Stand-Up Comedy Archive (University Beacon grant); Pasoulis’s Sonic Palimpsest of
    Chatham Dockyards (AHRC); and Thomas’s impact case study.

    Performance and Theatre Research. Bringing together scholars working across all aspects
    of live performance (including physical theatre, dance/choreography, music/composition,
    stand-up comedy), this RG has methodological strengths in Practice Research (PR),
    participatory arts, and socially engaged research. Thematic interests include neurodiversity,
    gender and ageing, and European performance practice. Landmark projects include A-Z of
    Physical Actor Training (Leverhulme), Autism Arts Festival (ACE), and Laera’s multiple
    projects on translation (AHRC). The group co-convenes the European Theatre Research
    Network with Central School of Speech and Drama.

    Film, Media, and Culture. The introduction of Media Studies has expanded this RG’s
    expertise beyond film and television and into screen media (including animation, gaming,
    social media) and industry practice. The result has been projects including Cinema Unframed
    on Virtual Reality production (AHRC), Frey’s ground-breaking study of Video on Demand
    algorithmic recommender systems (Leverhulme Prize), and Regehr’s impact case study on
    advertising.

    Aesthetics Research. This group connects researchers interested in political, aesthetic, and
    philosophical analyses of artworks, practices, and the arts industry. Thematic interests range
    from pornography to art schools. The RG leads on interdisciplinary collaborations, exemplified
    by the ‘Art, Aesthetics and Medical/Health Humanities’ conference and by Smith’s
    interdisciplinary research at Princeton (Rockefeller Fellowship). The group has a strong
    external profile, having won funding to host the annual BSA Postgraduate conference four
    times, and secured both BA and GCRF Postdoctoral Fellowships.

 These RGs connect us across and beyond the Division, and ensure all researchers and PGRs
 have a ‘home’ and peer-support network. They also support our School-wide strengths in:
 community and identity (including participatory arts, gender, and neurodiversity); health and

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 wellbeing (especially aging, memory loss, and mental health); and creative/industry practice
 (including film-making, VR, and electronic-acoustics). With over 33% of staff active in PR, practice
 is embedded across the RGs.

 Interdisciplinary collaborations within RGs have been fostered by encouraging members to
 participate in multiple groups, include colleagues from across the University, and co-produce
 research events with other RGs/Research Centres at Kent and beyond. Exemplifying this is
 ‘Thomas Ostermeier: Reinventing Directors’ Theatre’, co-organised with Birmingham, Essex,
 Paris Sorbonne Nouvelle, Central, Goethe-Institut London, Institut Français, and the Schaubühne
 Berlin. Widespread student involvement is encouraged, especially through PGR-led conferences
 and student-staff ‘In Conversations’. This supports research-led teaching and diversity in career
 progression.

 Four core priorities underpin the research strategies (2014-20 and 2021-28) detailed below. These
 are:

    • Ensuring diversity, representation, and an inclusive culture. We have achieved a
      minimum of c.40% female speakers and actively invite gender-neutral and non-binary
      speakers. Visibility of neurodiverse speakers, and speakers with disabilities, has been
      spearheaded by research projects on autism, and profiled through prominent speakers
      including Jessica Thom (Touretteshero) and Jenny Sealey (Graeae). Staff research on the
      Global South, postapartheid spaces, and persecution and genocide studies, reflects our
      attention to international arts and representation. Events have profiled work by Egyptian,
      South African, and East Asian scholars/practitioners, as well as Black and Global Majority
      British practitioners, including Mojisola Adebayo and Jatinda Verma. Interventions and
      events such as ‘Diversity and Disruption’ foreground our emphasis on intersectionality: with
      sessions on period poverty and the intersection of economics, class, and gender.

    • Supporting vibrant ECR research. This is central to our success and long-term
      sustainability, as detailed in Section 2. The successful shift from recruiting to developing
      ECRs is evidenced in strong ECR outputs, grants totalling £832,197, and potential for rapid
      promotion (e.g. Regehr to SL in under 3 years).

    • Ensuring ethics and integrity across all projects and engagement activities.
      Responding to leadership from groups including the Standing Conference of University
      Drama Departments and the National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement
      (NCCPE), we have inculcated a culture of research integrity and transparency. Our Ethics
      Advisor (an academic leadership role) and the University’s Research Ethics Advisory Group
      approve all projects, ensuring the highest ethical, legal (including GDPR), and professional
      standards are upheld. Working closely with the stakeholders detailed in Section 4,
      colleagues such as May and Shaughnessy are also advancing models of ethical research
      in participatory contexts.

    • Cultivating an open research environment. Using targeted and match funding,
      researchers make findings openly accessible via exhibitions, performances, workshops,
      talks and public conferences, and the production of original, open archives. Brooks has
      provided institutional leadership on open research as a member of Kent’s Copyright
      Steering Group. Working with Kent’s Copyright and Licensing team, she developed and
      advised on novel processes for identifying and registering Orphan Works, and her work has
      been used as a case study to inform sector discussion around licensing and open research.
      All researchers work with Information Services to ensure publications are listed on the Kent
      Academic Repository and are open-access compliant. Article Processing Charge funds
      enable gold open-access publication by CC-BY licence. This has been used for publication
      of articles including May’s ‘Enhancing Relaxed Performance’ (RiDE) and Allain’s ‘Thick
      Description/Thin Lines’ (Contemporary Theatre Review).



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Strategy 2014-20

 The School’s Research Committee, chaired by the Director of Research, manages the research
 strategy and identifies research objectives in response to Divisional and University strategy (e.g.
 Signature Research Themes), issues of growth and sustainability (e.g. challenges faced by the
 HE sector), and broader national and global research priorities (e.g. UN Sustainable Development
 Goals). Committee members include RG Directors, an ECR representative, and the EDI Director.

 The three key objectives identified in REF2014 drove our principal strategic aim, which was to
 grow our profile as an internationally recognised centre for interdisciplinary innovation and impact
 in arts research. We have exceeded our ambitions on all three objectives.

 1. To increase the scale and intensity of interdisciplinary and collaborative projects

 This has been achieved through a combination of enhanced internal investment for network and
 project development (£330k more than in REF2014); and the workload flexibility and supportive
 mentoring detailed in Section 2. Around 40% of staff have developed interdisciplinary research
 with partners across the University. Outstanding examples include collaborations with History on
 Gateways (£1.098m), one of five national AHRC centres for public engagement with the centenary
 of the First World War; with Law on Topologies of Air (British Council and others see pp.10-11,
 £181,800) exploring uses of airspace; and with Psychology on Comedy on the Spectrum (BA,
 £8k). Partnerships with Philosophy have underpinned several events, including the conference,
 ‘Aesthetics and Comedy: How to do things with jokes’ (BSA Synergy Grant, £6k).

 As well as the extensive non-HEI collaborations detailed in Section 4, researchers have
 collaborated with colleagues at more than 46 UK and international universities. These include
 European collaborations on Playing Identities (European Commission, £59k) and Audio History of
 Film (DFG/Exzellenzinitiative, £60k); and international collaborations with University of Auckland
 on Audiovisual Essay’s exploration of innovative new modes of presentation (AHRC, £30k), with
 the University of New South Wales on Lesions in the Landscape (Wellcome, £129k), and with the
 University of Praetoria on Imagineering the African City (BA, £5k). Within the UK, partnerships
 include with the Universities of Brighton, Bristol, and Edinburgh on The People’s Pier (AHRC,
 £39k) exploring the relationships between piers and communities of place; with UCL on Women
 We See (GLA, £19k) on advertising in London; and with RHUL, Kingston, Nottingham, and King’s
 College London, on Translation, Adaptation, Otherness (AHRC, £198k). It is noteworthy that these
 UK examples were all ECR-led.

 2. To become a sector leader in public engagement and impact

 Our impact strategy has been to encourage ambitious, creative, externally facing research activity
 enabling us to reach audiences and beneficiaries regionally, nationally, and internationally across
 five continents. Our approach to public engagement takes two forms: 1) participatory projects
 where researchers partner with volunteers and/or performers to co-design and co-produce new
 projects and outputs (e.g. Moving Memory Dance Theatre Company, Digitizing ‘The War
 Illustrated’); 2) projects responding to perspectives and experiences, and addressing social
 problems, where researchers partner with external stakeholders to identify and implement change
 (e.g. The People’s Pier, Women We See). A number of projects take both approaches
 simultaneously (e.g. Playing A/Part, Lesions in the Landscape).

 The range of activity within and beyond our impact case studies evidences our success. From
 22% of colleagues undertaking public engagement in REF2014, 76% of colleagues now actively
 engage with the public, resulting in impact on a broad range of beneficiaries, as detailed in Section
 4. All primary award holders of AHRC project grants/fellowships have also won follow-on funding,
 totalling £153,054. This success was achieved through a four-step impact and public engagement
 strategy, led by the Deputy Director for Research: Impact and Public Engagement (a role
 introduced in 2014):


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   i.        Embedding engagement as an essential element in the early stages of project
             development, including providing time for co-production and community/stakeholder
             engagement.

   ii.       Ensuring administrative resource for the planning, delivery, and evaluation of events and
             projects. Central to this is our Research Support Officer, who manages data capture and
             evaluation, has oversight of ongoing impact, and helps identify pathways for further
             engagement and impact.

  iii.       Providing targeted mentoring, best-practice dissemination (including via lunchtime
             research ‘chats’, and Public Engagement with Research Network contributions), and
             formal training (including University and NCCPE workshops).

  iv.        Providing financial support through Enhanced Individual Research Allowances for
             engagement. This, combined with University competitive awards totalling £38,485, enables
             us to seed-fund projects, initiate collaborations, and generate increased impact.

 3. To enhance rigour, innovation, and creativity in the production of high-quality outputs

 The production of innovative and creative outputs has been underpinned by our professional
 facilities, collaborations with industry/professional stakeholders, and £2,254,622 research income.
 The HESA element of this, £1,500,148, represents an 82% increase from REF2014. Increased
 rigour has been achieved through mentoring, annual research planning processes, and internal
 peer review prior to publication. The result is an increase in both the diversity and quality of
 research. Outputs include 27 monographs, 14 edited volumes, 39 journal articles, 21 PR outputs
 and 49 book chapters. Creative breadth of outputs is evident across:

         •   Innovative exhibitions and installations, including Lesions in the Landscape, 216
             Westbound, Art of Drawing, Raphael: The Drawings, Celebrating Karolos Koun, and My
             Generation: A Festival of British Art in the 1960s. These have been shown across the UK
             and internationally, including in Rotterdam, Sydney, and San Francisco.

         •   Cutting-edge digital outputs (software, databases/repositories, and online archives),
             including the Doris digital dance toolkit (Baring Foundation, ACE), Physical Actor Training
             (Leverhulme), and Great War Theatre (AHRC).

         •   Award-winning PR Films, including Dark River (Wellcome/BFI), Tempest Storm, and
             Machine for Viewing (AHRC), supported by major media outlets including the BBC, Film4,
             Channel 4, and Screen Yorkshire.

         •   New performances staged nationally and internationally, including Cracking the Crinoline,
             (49 performances, including in Paris, Glasgow, and at Sadler’s Wells and Southbank
             Centre); translations of plays by Europe-based writers with a migrant background (Gate
             Theatre); and St. Barnabas Hostels’ Pilgrimage created for performance on the mainstage
             at DCMS’s Ypres 100 commemorations.

 Research Strategy 2021-28

 We will consolidate our position as an international leader in academic innovation, impact, and
 socially engaged arts research, by strengthening existing expertise in community and identity,
 health and wellbeing, and creative/industry practice. We will also support emerging areas of
 expertise around public policy and services, and global media. Our ambitions will be realised
 through the cultivation of an open, inclusive research culture underpinned by our EDI and Athena
 SWAN strategy (Bronze Award, 2020), and three interconnected objectives.



                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1. To realise more diverse and extensive impact

 This will be achieved by fostering new research collaborations with regional, national, and
 international stakeholders, as well as by strengthening existing relationships with organisations
 such as Age UK, Sexplain/School of Sexuality Education, Transport for London, and the National
 Autistic Society. Alongside targeted engagement mentoring and involvement in Divisional and
 University-wide engagement networks, we will work with the University’s new Institute of Creative
 and Cultural Industries and draw on the experience of its recently appointed Director of Culture
 and Creative Projects (former director of the Adelaide Festival). We will respond to, and impact
 on, government and third-sector strategy, as articulated in the UK Industrial Strategy 2017. We
 will encourage engagement with policy-makers, especially around the creative economies and
 healthy ageing, building on best practice in the Division.

 2. To increase the scale and diversity of externally funded, interdisciplinary research

 We recognise that the competitiveness of the funding environment and wider economic landscape
 requires resilience, creative thinking, and innovation. Alongside supporting ‘stepping-stone’ small
 grants, we will take advantage of the new Divisional structure and Signature Research Themes
 (two of which are co-led by School researchers) to develop collaborative and proactive responses
 to major UKRI and international priorities. Our strengths in health and wellbeing will be central to
 this. We will build on successful projects around neurodiversity, ageing, and mental health;
 expertise in health humanities across the Division; and the 2020 launch of the Kent and Medway
 Medical School, to lead the establishment of health humanities at Kent. We will also respond to
 GCRF and UN Sustainable Development Goal opportunities (especially around inclusive
 education, good health, and gender equality), building on emerging collaborations with partners in
 the Global South. Throughout, we will identify opportunities for ECRs to partner with, and learn
 from, advanced career academics on large-scale projects.

 3. To ensure the ongoing vitality and sustainability of our research environment

 We will provide holistic CPD appropriate to all career stages. In PGR training we will tailor support
 to a diversity of career ambitions, recognising the changing nature of academic careers. This will
 be achieved by working with students, alumni, and the Graduate and Researcher College to
 develop training relevant to current PhDs (e.g. on remote or part-time study). We will use the
 PDRA Summer Vacation programme to expand PDRA opportunities, learning from Misek’s Global
 Challenges Doctoral Centre success. Building on our excellent ECR support, we will also work
 with the EDI Director to develop support for staff at mid/advanced career stages, paying particular
 attention to the impact of intersectional characteristics.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing Strategy

 2014-2020 has been a period of staffing consolidation, building on the rapid growth reported in
 REF2014. Five colleagues (four female/one male) have transitioned from education/scholarship
 to research contracts and three (two male/one female) new research appointments have been
 made. Our strategic focus on engagement and grant capture underpinned these eight
 appointments and we have already seen significant results, including grants totalling £521,199
 and one impact case study. All staff in the submission are on substantive, permanent, Education
 and Research contracts. This, together with our support for Education and Scholarship colleagues’
 development, reflects our commitment to developing a stable, secure workforce in accordance
 with Concordat principle 2.

 As detailed below, our staff profile is well distributed in terms of age and gender. It is also notably
 international, comprising staff from Australia, North and South America, Italy, Greece, Germany,
 Norway, Ireland, and Belgium. Gender parity is evident in promotions and in submission outputs
 (48% female; 52% male).
                                                                                            Age profile
                           Age              26-35              36-45           46-55           56-64%
                                               8%               31%             31%               30%

                                                                              Headcount by gender
                                                  Total           Lecturer/SL    Reader/Professor
                          Male                    47%                    43%                 54%
                        Female                    53%                    57%                 46%

                                                                             Promotions by gender
                                                 To SL             To Reader        To Professor
                          Male                       4                     2                   1
                        Female                       5                     2                   1

 We value and support the development of researchers at all career stages, through a range of
 mechanisms informed by the seven principles of the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers.

    •   Formal research mentoring and planning is provided through an annual two-hour appraisal
        with the Head of School; an annual Individual Research Planning (IRP) meeting with the
        Director of Research and the REF Coordinator; and an optional mid-year IRP. Strategic
        support is also embedded through feedback from the School Promotions Committee.

    •   Research time is enabled through a dedicated weekly research day during term time, and
        a term’s study leave after every seventh term.

    •   Financial support is provided for all staff irrespective of contract type/duration, via
        application to the Individual Research Allowance fund (managed by the Research
        Committee). This provided an average annual total of £34,200 (average £950 p/p) to
        support conferences, archival research, PR, and collaborations/networking. Additionally,
        between 2014 and 2017, Enhanced Individual Research Allowances provided a total of
        £20k for emergent, innovative, and impactful research.

    •   Peer support and sharing cultivates an inclusive, vibrant research culture. It is achieved
        through an annual programme that includes a School-wide research symposium, monthly


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        lunchtime research ‘chats’, regular Research Group seminars, postgraduate work-in-
        progress seminars, and the annual PG symposium.

 All researchers are encouraged to take advantage of University CPD opportunities. The New
 Senior Leaders, Crucial Conversations, and Leadership for Areas of Significant Responsibility
 programmes have supported more than nine colleagues stepping into new leadership roles. Two
 ECR colleagues have taken part in the Aurora programme (for women developing leadership) and
 Shaughnessy and Wood have supported colleagues within and beyond Kent, as Aurora mentors.
 Staff also attend grant development workshops and the annual impact development festival,
 contributing to our success in winning 81 grants.

 In addition to the support and networking opportunities available to all staff, ECRs are given
 additional support in transitioning from emergent to established researchers. Since 2014, 11 staff
 have held ECR status. All ECRs:

   •    Are assigned a formal mentor;
   •    Receive a two-year reduction in teaching and administration (50% year 1; 25% year 2);
   •    Are monitored through a three-year probationary process with annual reviews overseen by
        the Head of School;
   •    Complete their PG Certificate in Higher Education within two years of appointment;
   •    Can top up their Individual Research Allowance through a Research Development Fund
        totalling £3,500 annually;
   •    Can join the University’s ECR network which provides tailored talks and workshops (e.g.
        on career planning, balancing conflicting demands, coping with rejection) and opportunities
        for mutual support through networking.

 The result is a thriving ECR culture with achievements including: 20 grants, six monographs, 17
 chapters in edited collections, one edited book, 15 journal articles and four PR outputs.

 A key focus of our EDI strategy has been the development of leadership opportunities for ECRs.
 Deputy leadership roles were introduced in 2014 to enable succession planning and address an
 identified gender imbalance in leadership development. These have provided an effective pipeline
 for leadership development, and have resulted in ECRs stepping up to more senior roles at earlier
 points in their careers. ECRs have now served as School Directors of Education, of EDI, and of
 Research Groups. Every School committee has an ECR representative and Laera is the
 University’s REF Steering Group ECR representative.

 Explicit attention is paid to the impact of protected characteristics on all staff. EDI training is
 mandatory for all, and all School REF Steering Group members took additional training, including
 on Unconscious Bias. The annual Staff Survey, overseen by the EDI Director, is open to all staff
 and PG students, enabling us to reflect on and improve our culture. Notable changes since
 REF2014 include the introduction of weekly mindfulness sessions, and ensuring meetings and
 research events take place within working hours and are inclusive spaces for all. Other important
 support includes phased return following leave, access to on-site Occupational Therapy, flexible
 working opportunities, and parental leave exceeding legal requirements (taken by four staff). Staff
 are also encouraged to participate in University networks (e.g. Disability Staff Network, LGBTQ+
 Staff Network, BAME Network). These provide spaces for discussing equality, sharing information,
 and promoting good practice.

 Staff are incentivised through rewards for significant research activity and impact. In 2016 the
 School introduced a teaching relief scheme for staff actively developing grants over £350k. The
 Divisional Incentivisation Scheme (£2k research funding per PI) rewards colleagues submitting
 large and collaborative applications.


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since the introduction of the Academic Career Map the promotions process has emphasised the
 value of impact. This directly informed the promotions of Brooks, Regehr, Stevenson, and
 Thomas. Recognition also comes via the University’s Research Prizes, in which colleagues have
 been successful each year from 2015-2019 (external prizes are discussed in Section 4):
   •       Regehr: Early-Career Knowledge Exchange Award;
   •       Laera: University Prize for Starting Research;
   •       Brooks: Early-Career Research Prize, Humanities;
   •       Frey: Consolidator Research Prize, Humanities;
   •       Shaughnessy, Hammer: Research Prize, Humanities.

 Research Students

 62 PGRs (15 PR) have completed since REF2014: an almost 300% increase in completion rate
 despite stable staff FTE. Currently 68 students are registered. In total, 14 students received
 externally funded scholarships (56% increase on REF2014); 32 received internally funded
 scholarships. Overall, the PGR community has grown steadily, with a 70% increase in
 registrations. Particular growth areas include health/wellbeing and public policy. These inform the
 Research Strategy 2021-28.

 Through the application process all students are supported by their potential supervisor and the
 postgraduate administrator. PGR recruitment is underpinned by our commitment to EDI, with
 interviewers undertaking relevant training and positive action measures used. As a result, the PGR
 community is becoming more diverse and inclusive. Notably:

       •     56% full-time and 41% part-time PGRs are female;
       •     24% of students are part-time, a 10% increase since 2014;
       •     Over 40% of students have returned to study mid-career or post-retirement;
       •     Our international student body has grown by 20% (including students from the
             Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Romania, and Singapore);
       •     Diversity is evident in our growing community of neurodiverse PGRs.

 PGRs are inducted into the School and Research Group of their choice. All Research Group
 boards have a PGR member who represents the student voice. Throughout their registration,
 students are formally reviewed at key milestones: induction (6/12 weeks, full/part-time); probation
 (10/20 months); reviews (end of year 2/4 and 3/6), and submission review (3/6 months before
 submission). All PGRs have two supervisors who receive appropriate teaching/administrative
 relief per student. The majority of supervisory teams are made up of primary/secondary
 supervisors and a Supervisory Chair. Where two areas of specialism are required, either from
 within or beyond the School, students are co-supervised. Since 2014, nine students have been
 externally co-supervised with Psychology, Social Policy, Creative Writing, English, Medieval and
 Early Modern Studies, Philosophy, and the Canterbury NHS Paediatrics team. This is supporting
 a new generation of genuinely interdisciplinary researchers.

 Wellbeing is central to PGR support and is overseen by the School’s Student Support Service (3
 FTE), which provides drop-in sessions, advice, and signposting of other services. Kent’s Individual
 Learning Plan system supports PGRs with learning, physical, and mental health challenges.
 Shaughnessy and May model best practice in supervision of neurodiverse PGRs, offering
 adaptations that are responsive to sensory and communication preferences/learning styles.
 Students can also intermit at any point, and seven have taken parental leave since 2014.

 High-quality training and mentoring of the next generation of researchers and critically informed
 practitioners is vital. Supervisors use the skills training framework (based on Vitae’s Researcher
 Development Framework) to identify potential areas for development. Since 2014, 29 students
 have undertaken training with the Consortium for the Humanities and the Arts South-East England
 (CHASE) and 97 students have trained on Graduate and Researcher College (GRC, formerly

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Graduate School) courses. Writing support is provided by the Student Learning Advisory Service
 and the University’s Royal Literary Fellows. The School complements this with disciplinary-specific
 training (e.g. on participatory research). Training for PGRs and their supervisors has been
 pioneered by Allain, Maes, and Wood (in developing new CHASE-funded doctoral training), by
 Shaughnessy and May (in GRC workshops on supervising neurodiverse students), and by Brooks
 (in GRC workshops on supervisory best practice). The School’s excellent PGR support is reflected
 in Shaughnessy and Smith both winning the University’s Research Supervisor of the Year award
 and being shortlisted for THE’s Outstanding Research Supervisor of the Year award. Together
 with Allain’s leadership as Dean of the Graduate School since 2016, the School has impacted
 significantly on PGR and supervisory training across Kent and our consortia partners.

 Peer support and learning is cultivated through PGR-organised reading groups and film series,
 attended by both staff and students. Monthly work-in-progress sessions and the annual PGR
 symposium prepare students for presenting at national and international conferences. A fund of
 £500 per student and a top-up fund (average total £8,000 p/a), has enabled 47 students to present
 at c.121 conferences since 2014. These include annual society conferences (e.g. the Society for
 Cinema and Media Studies, and Australasian Association of Philosophy) and thematic
 conferences such as ‘Merging Methodologies’. PGR scholarship has been recognised with
 conference awards, including the British Association of Film, Television and Screen Studies
 postgraduate poster prize (Creighton).

 The majority of our PGRs have the opportunity to teach and are prepared through:

    •   Two University courses on pedagogy and practice;
    •   A School ‘Introduction to Teaching’ workshop;
    •   Mentoring from course convenors;
    •   A Graduate Teaching Assistant Convenor;
    •   School representation on the GRC’s Graduate Teacher network.

 Post-PhD preparation focuses on:

    •   Careers. Students can undertake international residencies and internships during their
        PhD. Eight students have had placements at organisations including the Globe, BFI
        archive, and Tate Modern. The GRC and Careers Service provide careers planning
        support. Colleagues also create opportunities for PGRs to gain skills as research
        assistants on projects, including Comedy on the Spectrum; Great War Theatre; and
        Playing A/Part.

    •   Outputs. PGRs are supported in publishing peer-reviewed essays, with work appearing in
        edited collections and journals such as: RiDE, Celebrity Studies, Postgraduate Journal of
        Aesthetics, and Tate Papers. Supervisors, including Jeffers-McDonald and Frey, have
        exemplified supportive practice through co-editing book collections (e.g. Gothic Heroines)
        and special issues with PGRs.

    •   Research leadership. PGRs are encouraged to contribute to research groups across Kent
        and to collaborate with external partners. This has resulted in successful events including
        ‘Masculinity and the Metropolis’ (co-produced with the Centre for American Studies), and
        the British Society of Aesthetics PG Conference (hosted four times). In total, PGRs have
        organised 21 major conferences and numerous seminars.

    •   Impact and public engagement. Our commitment to outward-facing research begins at
        PGR-level with opportunities to disseminate research online, via broadcast media (e.g. on
        the BBC Free Thinking series), and in exhibitions (including at the Wellcome Collection;
        Tate; and UNSW Galleries, Sydney). PR PGRs have also staged work at the Young Vic,
        Mandela Studios, and Festival of Storytelling.



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The success of our PGR programme is evidenced by the positions taken up by PGRs after
 graduating. Declercq exemplifies this, having been a scholarship PGR, appointed as a lecturer,
 and now serving as the Aesthetics Research Group co-director. Internationally, British Academy
 PDRA Grosoli gained a permanent academic post at Habib University, Pakistan. PGRs have also
 gained academic positions at Queensland, Tennessee, Akron Ohio, Azusa Pacific, Nijmegen,
 Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool, Nanyang Academy of Fine Arts, Lasalle College of the Arts, Yale, and
 Waikato. National appointments include at Oxford, UEA, Guildhall School of Music, Rose Bruford,
 Queen Mary, and Birmingham. Many PGRs have also developed careers outside academia:
 including in government (Policy Advisor for the Department for Environment, Food and Rural
 Affairs), in the arts (at Fourth Monkey Education Ltd, C&T Theatre Company, Paul Mellon Centre,
 and the Tate), and as self-employed practitioners.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 External Funding

 An extensive portfolio of funding, awarded by research councils, charities, academic institutions
 and associations, and trusts has enabled, as well as evidencing, the interdisciplinary, international,
 and public-facing nature of our research. In total, 24 staff have won external grants from 28
 funders, resulting in income of £2,254,622.

 HESA grant income totalled £1,500,148. This is an 82% increase since REF2014 and represents
 a steady, sustained increase in funding. These grants enabled our substantial body of outputs,
 impact, and intellectual exchange. One-off small grants, for visiting experts (e.g. the UK visit of
 Studio Rosa, £1.2k Polish Cultural Institute), and conferences/symposia (nine grants totalling
 £36k) strengthen the vitality of our environment. Large, collaborative awards make substantial
 contributions to our outputs and impact profile. These include Playing A/Part (£678k, AHRC),
 which is engaging with autistic girls using participatory methodologies and has reached national
 audiences via the BBC’s Arts in Quarantine film (£9.6k, AHRC); A Sonic Palimpsest (£199k,
 AHRC, delayed due to Covid-19); A-Z of Physical Actor Training (£77k, Leverhulme), which led to
 Methuen’s ground-breaking digital publication; and the ECR project Translation, Adaptation,
 Otherness (£198k, AHRC), which resulted in Theatre & Translation. Playing A/Part and Physical
 Actor Training also funded PDRAs. Beyond major grants, seed-corn funding – including from the
 British Academy, international HEIs, and subject societies – provides a crucial starting point for
 colleagues moving in new research directions. This is exemplified by Brydon’s work in South
 Africa, enabled by two BA grants totalling £4,958.

 All AHRC project grant/fellowship primary award holders have been successful in winning follow-
 on funding, totalling £153,054. These grants have enabled engagement with new beneficiaries
 and the generation of substantial impact, detailed in Section 4. A Web Archive of Theatre
 Translation Resources (£62,415), for example, built on the work of Translation, Adaptation,
 Otherness, through partnering with theatres and drama teachers to deliver educational resources
 on foreign-language plays. For Imagining Autism, follow-on funding (Autism Reimagined, £23,416)
 was complemented by funding from non-HESA sources, including The Atkinson, Autism Ethics
 Network, Big Lottery, and Kent County Council. This portfolio of funding enabled extensive
 engagement with stakeholders and beneficiaries via a CPD programme, arts centre residences,
 ‘Autism Cafes’, and ‘Autism Champions’. Lesions in the Landscape also exemplifies the
 importance of a portfolio of funding for impact. In addition to a £129k Wellcome Trust grant,
 Lesions was supported by £40k from FACT Liverpool; Taigh Chearsabhagh Museum and Arts
 Centre, North Uist; CGP London; and UNSW Galleries, Sydney. Together, this enabled
 Illingworth’s Amnesia Lab exhibition and impact case study.

 Arts organisations, health and education charities, local authorities, and other sources not reported
 in HESA returns have made a substantial contribution to our research and impact. With c.35
 grants, totalling £754,474, these sources represent 34% of total income and have supported a far
 greater range of outputs and impacts than in REF2014. This reflects our strategy for diversifying
 and ensuring sustainability of income. Major examples include Topologies of Air, an immersive

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 multi-screen sound/video installation exploring changing uses of airspace (exhibition delayed due
 to Covid-19). Originally commissioned by The Wapping Project (£45k), the exhibition was
 supported by the British Council, DCMS, and GREAT through the UK-Gulf exhibition programme
 (£80k); the production by the Bahrain Authority for Culture and Antiquities and the Sharjah Art
 Foundation (£51.8k); and travel by the ACE Artists’ International Development Fund (£5k). Moving
 Memory Dance Theatre Company has also been supported by a portfolio of funders. These
 include Ageless Thanet, Kent County Council, Nominet Trust and Baring Foundation, Medway
 Public Health Commission, Big Lottery, and ACE (39% of total funding). Totalling £340,500, this
 funding resulted in Older Women Centre Stage and the substantial impact discussed in Section
 4. It is also significant in being led by an ECR.

 ECRs play an active role in seeking and winning funding, supported by the mechanisms detailed
 in Section 2. In total ECRs have won 25 external grants (10 HESA), totalling £832,197. Of
 particular note is May’s research and impact around autistic arts, supported by one BA and two
 ACE grants, totalling £61,239.

 Fellowships, totalling £135,525, enabled international collaborations and outputs. The Truth is
 Always Grey was supported by a German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) Fellowship at the
 University of Duisburg-Essen, as well as a College Art Association grant. Barnard’s BFI/Wellcome
 Screenwriting Fellowship led directly to the production of Dark River, which was supported by £85k
 from the BFI Film Fund as well as receiving substantial support from Screen Yorkshire and Film4.

 These successes evidence the effectiveness of our recruitment strategies and grant support
 system. From concept to completion, the Research Support Officer (RSO) and Director of
 Research (DoR) provide consistent, dedicated, and tailored support, ensuring that all researchers
 can improve the quality and ambition of their projects. This happens:

    •   At the concept stage through peer-to-peer mentoring, encouragement, and informal peer
        feedback. This takes place within the Research Groups, through School research events
        and within wider networks;

    •   At the development stage (at least eight weeks prior to submission), through formal peer
        review and individual support from the RSO and DoR;

    •   Post-grant, through the grants administration team. This includes the RSO, who monitors
        and records impact and engagement activities; the Finance Officer, who liaises with the
        central grants team; and the School Administration Manager who, working with the Head
        of Subject and School, manages teaching buy-out and timetabling to ensure appropriate
        time and resource is provided.

 Institutional Investment

 We have achieved significantly higher levels of University and Divisional investment: winning
 £373,129 across different competitive schemes, compared to £40k during REF2014. This has
 enhanced our research environment in two key ways:

    1) New research collaborations and networking have been made possible with funding from
       the International Visitors Scheme, Beacon ‘50th Anniversary’ Scheme, University EU
       Partnership Award, Faculty Mobility Fund, and the Kent-Ghent Initiative. The latter
       launched Brydon’s Imagineering the African City network.

    2) Competitive Impact and Public Engagement awards (£38,485) have driven large grant
       applications and outward-facing research by providing ‘nurseries’ for larger projects,
       enabling researchers to scope out and test ideas. Projects initially developed this way
       include: Autism Arts Festival; Playing A/Part; Autism Reimagined; Moving Memory; and
       Great War Theatre. These projects have subsequently connected with thousands of
       beneficiaries and gained substantial external funding.

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Whilst we emphasise the importance of external grant capture, School investment of QR funding
 remains vital in supporting the ongoing production of high-quality research outputs and impact.
 Investment is determined annually in response to strategic review by the Research Committee,
 and is channelled in three key ways:

    1) Individual Research Allowances: a total of £171k supported presentations at 236
       conferences and symposia; 63 research trips, including to access archives and national
       resources; and 41 impact and external engagement activities.

    2) Enhanced Individual Research Allowances: 31 EIRAs totalling £20k provided increased
       allowances for annually reviewed areas of strategic importance. These included
       networking, public engagement, ECR Development, and equalising access opportunities
       across career stages.

    3) Research Groups: these are funded annually based on the number of active researchers
       in each group. £34,350 School investment (and £36k external funding) supported just
       under 300 research events. These include more than 140 research talks by speakers
       including Omar Elerian (Italian/Palestinian director) and Oliver Frljić (Croatian director); 23
       ‘In Conversations’, such as with comedians Susan Calman, Jo Brand, and Stephen K.
       Amos; and 69 conferences and symposia, most notably the high-profile ‘Cognitive Futures
       in the Humanities’.

 Facilities

 A key feature of our REF2014 environment was the opening of the Jarman building. Since then,
 the Jarman has undergone a series of strategic enhancements totalling £46,000 and aimed
 specifically at improving PGR and PR facilities. This includes a new dedicated PGR hub, with
 workstations and lockers. Located alongside staff offices, this has coalesced the PG community
 internally and with the wider staff community. The £80k invested into equipping the 3D-enabled
 Lupino cinema has significantly enhanced our research environment and supports our EDI aim of
 profiling diverse film-makers. It prompted the creation of the annual Ida Lupino Lecture on women
 in UK TV and Film, and has been the venue for screenings by visiting lecturers. These include
 Professor Daw-Ming Lee’s (Taipei National University of the Arts) film on Taiwan’s Ethnographic
 Films (supported by the Faculty Mobility Fund) and Professor Sue Vice’s (Sheffield) presentation
 on Claude Lanzmann's Shoah Outtakes.

 Our professional facilities and technicians underpin the School’s strengths, especially in PR.
 Facilities include a 120-seat end-on theatre and four black-box drama studios; pre- and post-
 production, film-editing, and technical suites; a Foley Room and an ambisonics room; three
 professional recording studios, a sound studio, and a portable/flexible Music and Audio Sound
 Theatre (MAAST) with immersive multi-speaker system; and a professional art gallery. Our
 workshop (including costume and props store) is equipped for set building, mould making/casting,
 sculpting, 3D design/printing, and laser cutting. Strategic investment has significantly improved
 PR facilities through: installation of Harlequin flooring in two studios; new EM Acoustic PA systems
 for drama studios and theatre; two iMacs with Q-lab (professional-standard sound design
 programme); and comprehensive lighting and sound upgrades, including a Behringer digital sound
 desk. Use of these facilities is supported by nine technicians, all from industry backgrounds,
 specialising in key areas of production.

 This infrastructure continues to attract PGR students, with 31 enrolling on Drama, Film, and Music
 PR PhDs since REF2014. It also supports the creation of impact case studies and outputs. Drama
 facilities enabled the development of The Digital Performer, Older Women Centre Stage, and
 Break a Leg. The music suites underpinned Irides and King’s Cross, and the film studios were
 essential to 216 Westbound, Lesions in the Landscape, Cinema Unframed, and The Video Essay
 as ‘Liquid Criticism’. Practice and screening facilities have also been used across 25 international
 conferences, including ‘Kantorbury’ (featuring Polish scholars Lech Stangret, Anna Burzynska,
 and artist Goshka Macuga) and ‘Cinema, Embodiment, Pornography’. We also ensure our

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 facilities benefit the wider community, hosting Fringe previews and making our studios available
 for use by community groups. The Autism Arts Festival, which was staged across our performance
 spaces and at the Gulbenkian, exemplifies the importance of our facilities in enabling impact. Our
 collaboration with the Gulbenkian also includes programming the annual Linda Smith Lecture
 given by comedians including Sandy Toksvig and Barry Cryer.

 Since 2014, significant investment has improved the Templeman Library, and Special Collections
 and Archives. The enlarged and upgraded library, with new PGR facilities including a dedicated
 24/7 Study hub and extensive digital resources, underpins PG and staff research throughout the
 School. The new reading rooms and exhibition spaces have been central to events such as the
 Panto Then & Now exhibition and public symposium. Research outputs and events have also
 been enabled by the expanded theatre archives. These include the new David Drummond
 pantomime collection (£160k investment), the British Stand-Up Comedy Archive (£96k investment
 and growth from five to 18 comedians’ collections since 2014), and the Max Tyler Music Hall
 Collection (£10,000 investment).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research Contribution and Recognition

 Research leadership is evidenced across and beyond the University. Allain has served as Dean
 of the GRC, Brooks as Divisional Director of Research and Innovation, and Frey as Associate
 Dean for Internationalisation. Nationally, Shaughnessy chairs the QAA Subject Benchmarking
 Review, Drama, Dance and Performing Arts; and Shaughnessy and Wood have taken on roles in
 AHRC Strategic Review. Allain, Boenisch, and Shaughnessy have undertaken ‘pilot’/peer REF
 reviewing at RHUL, Lincoln, Reading, and Ulster. Allain was on subpanel 35 in REF2014 and is a
 REF2021 panel member. Smith, Double, and Shaughnessy’s research has been recognised for
 its international transformation of the fields of cognitive film studies, comedy studies, and arts and
 neurodiversity, respectively.

 Staff leadership of our wider disciplines through peer review has significantly expanded since
 REF2014. The number of AHRC Peer Review College members (Boenisch, Brooks, Frey, Jeffers-
 McDonald, Laera, Shaughnessy, Wood), and Leverhulme reviewers (Boenisch, Cinquegrani,
 Guerin, Maes, Smith) has doubled; and Wood now reviews for the EPSRC. International esteem
 is evidenced through peer-review activities for funding bodies in 12 countries (vs 7 in REF2014),
 including Lithuania, Germany, Finland, the Czech Republic, Switzerland, China, Israel, New
 Zealand, and Singapore.

 Colleagues also play leading roles in major disciplinary organisations, including the Society of
 Cinema and Media Studies (Sub-panel Chair), Society for Cognitive Studies of the Moving Image
 (Board member, President, Fellow); British Society of Aesthetics (Trustees); Association for Art
 History (Trustee, Chair of Museums and Exhibitions Committee); Theatre and Performance
 Research Association (working group founder); and Society for Dance Research (Secretary and
 Executive member). Our interdisciplinarity is reflected in Fellowships of the Royal Geographical
 Society; Royal Society of Arts; Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and
 Commerce; and membership of Academia Europea. More than 90% of staff are HEA Fellows or
 Senior Fellows.

 Externally, 12 staff have served as External Examiners on UK degree programmes, and
 colleagues have served as external validators for new degree programmes at East15/Essex,
 Roehampton, Central School of Ballet, and Rambert. The 63 doctorates examined at 31 UK
 universities encompass a range of interdisciplinary areas, whilst examinations at 11 international
 universities evidence the international reach of our research. Eleven staff have served on
 professorial appointment committees. Shaughnessy also served as the UK expert on the
 international review panel, and subsequent validation panel, of Hong Kong Academy’s Performing
 Arts Programme. Allain has served as visiting reviewer at NUS, Singapore.


                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Editorial positions facilitate the development of new knowledge. Since REF2014, 28 staff have
 taken on editorial roles for 41 journals across multiple disciplines. These include: Journal of
 Aesthetics and Art Criticism; Tate Papers; Visual Culture in Britain; Comedy Studies;
 Contemporary Theatre Review; Gender Studies; Theatre Topics; Theatre Journal; Theatre, Dance
 and Performance Training; Shakespeare; Screen; Digital War; Projections; and Northern Lights.
 Notable international examples include Immagine, Note di Storia del Cinema; Kunsttijdschrift
 Vlaanderen; Polish Theatre Journal; Rebeca (Brazilian Journal of Cinema and Audiovisual
 Studies); and Theatre Research International.

 Staff are editors for book series, including Methuen’s interdisciplinary Performance and Science
 series, Animation (Palgrave), German Film Classics (Camden House), Studies in Screen
 Industries and Performance (Palgrave), and Performance Studies (Exeter University Press). All
 staff are active in peer reviewing academic publications, with over 250 reviews undertaken,
 including for international and interdisciplinary journals such as the Journal of Experimental
 Psychology, Body and Society, and Interacting with Computers.

 The international significance and quality of our research has been recognised through numerous
 awards and prizes. Thomas’s Ashmolean Raphael exhibition won a Global Fine Art award and the
 Apollo Magazine Exhibition of the Year prize. Allain won the Stanislaw Ignacy Witkiewicz (Witkacy)
 Prize for promoting Polish theatre abroad, and Frey won the Philip Leverhulme Visual and
 Performing Arts Prize. Illingworth was shortlisted for the prestigious 2016 Jarman Award. In
 outputs, Sayad won the British Association of Film, Television and Screen Studies (BAFTSS)
 award for Best Journal Article, and Frey’s Extreme Cinema received BAFTSS Best Monograph
 Honourable Mention. Newall won the American Society for Aesthetics Outstanding Monograph
 Prize, and Laera’s Translation, Adaptation, Otherness (AHRC) won the TaPRA Early Career
 Research Prize. Whilst at Kent, Radosavljević won, and Boenisch was shortlisted for, the TaPRA
 David Bradby prize. Other shortlists include Wood’s Software, Animation, and the Moving Image
 (Society of Animation); Frey’s Permanent Crisis and Stanfield’s Cool and the Crazy (BAFTSS);
 and Smith’s Film, Art, and the Third Culture (Kraszna-Krausz).

 PR outputs have received multiple awards. Tempest Storm won Best Documentary and Audience
 Choice at the Atlanta Underground Festival, and Best Documentary Pitch at Toronto’s Hotdocs
 International Documentary Festival. Machine for Viewing was in competition at the 2019
 International Documentary Festival of Amsterdam and in the Official Selection for the 2020
 Sundance Film Festival. Since REF2014, Selfish Giant has won seven international awards,
 including the Europa Cinemas Label for Best European Film, the Hitchcock D’Or (Dinard Film
 Festival), and Best Film (Ghent Film Festival). It was nominated for seven British Independent
 Film Awards (BIFA) and one BAFTA (Best British Film). Moving Memory’s Beyond the Marigolds
 won the 2017 Kent Creative Award, recognising impact on the region, and their ‘Moving Well’
 workshops were shortlisted for the Europe-wide Smart Ageing Prize 2020.

 Recognition and influence are indicated by more than 100 keynotes and invited lectures presented
 in the UK, Europe, Japan, America, South Korea, and Australia (in addition to papers delivered at
 227 conferences/symposia). Researchers have given high-profile talks at national and
 international cultural institutions, including the British Museum; BFI; Deutsches Filmmuseum,
 Frankfurt; Museum of Fine Art, Boston; and Gallery of Modern Art, Brisbane. In competitions and
 awards, Allain was invited to be a competition juror for the Iran International University Theatre
 Festival; Frey has sat on the Society for Cinema and Media Studies committees for the Best First
 Book and Katherine Singer Kovács Essay awards.

 Colleagues have won fellowships, and been invited to undertake Visiting Professorships, at
 institutions including the International Research College, Berlin; Universität Bremen; Humboldt-
 Universität zu Berlin; Ruhr-Universität Bochum (Marie Curie Intra-European Fellowship);
 University of Queensland; Macquarie University, Sydney; and Princeton (Rockefeller Fellowship).
 Barnard received the inaugural BFI/Wellcome Trust Screenwriting Fellowship; Illingworth, the
 Women’s Playhouse Trust Fellowship; and Laera, a fellowship from the Education, Audiovisual
 and Culture Executive Agency.

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 External research collaborations are enabled financially through University networking schemes
 and the grant income detailed in Section 3. University Academic Visitor schemes have enabled us
 to host 11 international guests and develop interdisciplinary research. Key visits include John
 Lutterbie (co-founder of the interdisciplinary Center for Embodied Cognition, Stony Brook) and
 Dean Irvine (Dalhousie, founder of Agile Humanities Agency). Colleagues have also collaborated
 on projects with more than 46 UK and international universities. Projects supported by the
 University’s EU Partnership Award have responded to international priorities, as exemplified by
 Guerin’s collaborations on Living with Industrial Disasters and Environmental Risk. Research
 groups also provide important financial, practical, and organisational support for collaborative
 events. This has underpinned 69 significant symposia and national/international conferences
 organised both at Kent and elsewhere. Major collaborative examples include ‘Turning the Page:
 Digitalization, movie magazines and historical audience studies’ (with University of Ghent), ‘The
 End of Fashion’ (with Massey University, Wellington), ‘Philosophy of Portraits’ (with University of
 Maryland), and ‘Celebrating Karlos Koun’ (with University of Oxford, introduced by the Greek
 Minister of Culture). Colleagues are also active in developing and convening research networks.
 Significant examples include the ‘Re-’ Interdisciplinary Network (with University of Cambridge),
 the Aesthetic Value Network (with University of Murcia, Fundación Séneca), and the expansion of
 the European Theatre Research Network in partnership with Central.

 Engaging with Beneficiaries

 Through participatory and co-production research methodologies we have engaged directly with
 beneficiaries and research users. The co-production projects, Great War Theatre and Digitizing
 ‘The War Illustrated’, recruited and trained over 300 nationwide volunteer researchers. Volunteers
 were aged between 8 and 80+, and included diverse semi-/retired professionals and people re-
 entering education. Participatory research projects have connected with marginalised and harder-
 to-reach groups including: neurodivergent adolescent girls (Playing A/Part), autistic creatives
 (Autism Arts Festival [AAF]), older women (Moving Memory [MM]), and people with memory loss
 (Lesions in the Landscape). MM’s work, in particular, has connected intergenerational groups and
 reached extensive audiences across multiple productions/projects (Still Stomping alone reached
 audiences of c.4000, 200+ workshop participants, and 20 trainees/performers). This reach is
 mirrored in the AAF: co-produced with 68 autistic advocates and artists, the two festivals reached
 audiences of 14,500.

 Autism Reimagined (AHRC follow-on from Imagining Autism) exemplifies how public/third-sector
 partnerships enable colleagues to reach key research users. Partnering with the National Autistic
 Society and arts centres in Southport and Merseyside, Autism Reimagined provided CPD training
 for 258 teachers/TAs (as well as social workers, school governors, occupational therapists, and
 other support workers) nationwide. This was in addition to training 130 mainstream/55 SEN
 teachers in Kent and developing peer-to-peer skills/knowledge-transfer mechanisms by training
 ‘Autism Champions’. Partnerships with both SEN and mainstream schools in Kent also facilitated
 after-school ‘Autism Cafes’ and ‘iA for Families’ workshops, benefiting c.150 parents/carers. Other
 projects have also reached beneficiaries and users via stakeholder partnerships. Regionally, these
 stakeholders include South East Dance, Ageless Thanet, four primary schools, two Age UK
 groups, local residential/nursing homes, and Kent and Canterbury GPs. National partnerships
 include with Sexplain/School of Sexuality Education, the Mayor of London’s office, Sydney De
 Haan Research Centre, the National Autistic Society, and Snape Maltings.

 Partnerships with external arts and heritage organisations underpin the 300+ public research
 activities, events, and performances/presentations through which we connect with diverse
 audiences and beneficiaries. High-profile national stakeholders include: the BFI (including multiple
 invited talks by Jeffers-McDonald and Frey); The National Archives; V&A Museum; Young Vic;
 London Bubble Theatre Company; and Nottingham Playhouse. International partners connecting
 us to audiences include: Auora Museum, Shanghai; Medical Museion, Copenhagen; QAGOMA,
 Brisbane; Piccolo Teatro, Milan; Tiny Hero Productions, Amsterdam; Michael Chekhov Europe;
 and Museo de Arte Moderno de Buenos Aires.


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Researchers have worked closely with a number of organisations to develop innovative, research-
 led programming. Plays rediscovered, written, and translated by researchers have been
 performed extensively, including at DCMS WW1 centenary commemorations in Manchester and
 Ieper; at Kings Theatre, Portsmouth; Theatre Royal Brighton; and the Gate Theatre, London.
 Double’s partnerships underpinned the 2015 Edinburgh Fringe’s ‘Talking Comedy’ events.
 Researchers have also curated exhibitions and programmed work for the Whitechapel Gallery;
 FACT Liverpool; the Wellcome Collection; IWM (216 Westbound is now in the permanent
 collection); and Close-Up Film Centre, London. Internationally, researchers have programmed
 content for the Anand Foundation, Delhi; the Smithsonian Portrait Gallery, Washington DC; and
 Corpus experimental dance company, Copenhagen.

 Regionally, we collaborate with key stakeholders to connect with and benefit audiences in Kent.
 We regularly programme and produce talks/events for the Gulbenkian: including programming
 three new arts festivals (Outdoor Horror, Autism Arts, and Projections). We work closely with the
 Marlowe Theatre, Canterbury, most prominently advising on the Marlowe 450 season and WW1
 centenary community-production Return of the Unknown. Our collaboration with the Beaney
 House of Art and Knowledge, Canterbury, includes exhibitions on the photography of Tony Ray-
 Jones and pop-art pioneer Eduardo Paolozzi. The Memoranda of Understanding (instigated by
 Allain) with Canterbury Cathedral and the city’s University of the Third Age (U3A) group, have also
 been key in reaching local audiences, including via the interdisciplinary Cathedral-University
 Questions of Space festival and annual U3A-University conference. Beyond immediate civic
 partners, researchers have programmed events for Turner Contemporary, Margate; Theatre Royal
 Margate; Folkestone Quarterhouse; Historic Dockyard Chatham; and smaller community arts
 organisations including Dover Youth Theatre and Sheppey Little Theatre.

 Engagement and impact within the creative and heritage sector is achieved through work in
 advisory, governance, and consultancy roles. Illingworth is an Associate of the IWM; Vass serves
 as a consultant to Forsythe Productions; and Allain was a consultant for the Conservatoire for
 Dance and Drama (2015-18). He also chaired the Marlowe Theatre’s senior management
 committee and sits on the Digital Theatre+ Advisory Board. Brooks and Double are new
 acquisitions advisors for Special Collections and Archives (contributing to its 2018 Archive Service
 Accreditation). Brooks sits on the Kings Theatre Portsmouth’s archives steering group.

 Staff regularly connect to beneficiaries, intervene in public discussions, and improve access to
 research, via local news and specialist media outlets. Significant examples include The Stage,
 Sight and Sound, Learning Disability Today, THE, TLS, Chortle, New Scientist, Hystrio, and The
 i. Beyond impact case studies, high-profile national and international media coverage of research
 has been achieved through features in the New York Times, Times of Malta, Guardian,
 Independent, Telegraph, and Sunday Post. Research has also been featured on the BBC: in
 ‘Bitesize’ educational programming; on the BBC website; in Radio 4 programmes including Great
 Lives, Fry’s English Delight, All in the Mind, and The Cultural Front; in podcasts such as 1800
 Seconds on Autism; and on BBC1 Newsnight.

 Researchers have produced and collaborated on films, documentaries, and podcasts to reach
 international audiences. Illingworth (Random Acts/Channel 4) and Shaughnessy’s (BBC Arts in
 Quarantine) research has been the subject of mainstream documentaries and short animations.
 Double’s podcasts – History of Comedy in Several Objects (with Quirk), and Breaking a Leg –
 have achieved 13,500 downloads. ECR Regehr reached significant audiences via two BBC3
 documentaries: The Secret World of Incels (which prompted widespread social media discussion
 including over 37,000 reactions on Facebook alone) and her collaboration on Secrets of Sugar
 Baby Dating. Her podcast How Researchers Changed the World (Taylor and Francis, rated 4/5 by
 Podcast Review Show) has reached audiences of over 17,000 (39% North America, 19% Asia,
 29% Europe).




                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Impact and Contribution to Society beyond Impact Case Studies

 Our research has positively impacted on the health and wellbeing of marginalised and
 harder-to-reach communities. Changes in attitude and a positive impact on sense of identity
 and value are evident across our socially engaged research. Projects have placed marginalised
 groups centre stage, challenged negative perceptions (e.g. of ageing, of disenfranchised white
 youth, and of autistic humour and creativity), and reduced stigma (e.g. around neurodiverse
 behaviours). Impacts include increased perception of lifelong and neurodiverse creativity;
 increased interests in self-advocacy; reduced anxiety and loneliness (especially during the Covid-
 19 pandemic); a sense of being valued and appreciated; and increased physical health,
 confidence, and emotional resilience. Online provision of 54 ‘Moving Well’ workshops, socially
 distanced performances for care settings/isolated people, and volunteer research opportunities
 have positively impacted on experiences of the pandemic. All projects see benefits in mutual
 support, communication, and community building: often intergenerational and trans-geographical.
 Beyond immediate impacts, external research also shows that positive psychological and social
 effects have protective benefits for health and health behaviours.

 Our research has enhanced educational and social outcomes for young people, volunteers,
 and research participants. This includes improving access to foreign-language plays in drama
 curricula, and enhancing quality and inclusivity in sex/relationship education. Barnard’s Selfish
 Giant has informed discussion of class and identity in secondary schools, and Smith’s work
 features in A level Film Studies curricula. The education of autistic children has directly benefited
 from teachers and parents gaining new understandings of autistic communication, and feeling
 empowered to use Autism Reimagined techniques to improve classroom and home life. Evaluation
 of these interventions reveals positive change in 70-80% children, including in areas of social
 impairment, socialisation, play, interests, and confidence.

 Research participants have gained new skills (technical, facilitation, research, archival),
 knowledge (including history and copyright law), and creativity. Significant numbers of participants
 report wanting to apply their new skills and confidence beyond projects. They also seek further
 opportunities to perform, study, volunteer, and undertake independent research. Some MM
 trainees have gone on to volunteer independently in local adult care settings, whilst others have
 gone on to launch the ‘Kick up a Fuss’ collective. The company’s work has also inspired other
 community dance groups emerging in areas of social deprivation across Kent. Misek’s
 collaboration with Raby inspired the VR artist to take up a funded PhD at Monash, whilst former
 Imagining Autism practitioner, Williams, attributes her career development and current position as
 Manager of Spare Tyre Theatre (ACE National Portfolio) to her work on Imagining Autism.
 Barnard’s films have nurtured talent from under-represented backgrounds in Yorkshire and
 provided employment pathways: including in acting, with both ‘non-actor’ leads in Selfish Giant
 now having on-screen careers.

 Our research has informed the work of creative practitioners and professionals within and
 beyond the arts, contributing to knowledge spillover in the wider economy. Double’s work
 (including Getting the Joke, British Stand-up Comedy Archive and Break a Leg) has been
 acclaimed by comedians: for increasing the cultural significance of stand-up comedy, changing
 how comedians write and archive their material, influencing teaching of comedy, and inspiring
 efforts to grow the Indian comedy scene. As dramaturg, Radosavljević shaped the 2015 Oresteia,
 which gained a West End transfer and was lauded as ‘one of this year’s theatrical sensations’
 (Guardian, 30/5/15). MM’s online training resources and Autism Reimagined techniques have
 been taken up by artists, facilitators, and companies, including Dacorum Community Dance and
 What’s Coming out of the Box. More than 130 practitioners have also developed new skills and
 knowledge via MM’s forum for exchanging experiences/practice. As part of Marlowe 450, Allain
 co-directed The Massacre at Paris for the Cathedral crypt, deepening the cast’s understanding of
 the value of physical theatre training. He also shaped the Marlowe Theatre’s regional and
 participatory programming, as part of their transition to an independent trust. Beyond theatre,
 Allain draws on his experience with Methuen to inform thinking around digital publishing.


                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Models of co-production have also informed approaches taken up by varied groups, including local
 history projects; mental health nursing teams; and Clevedon Pier, which took forward the
 community event model developed during The People’s Pier (AHRC). Methodological innovations
 have also been adopted as best practice by research users. AAF’s autism-friendly audience packs
 were adapted for use at the 2018 Edinburgh Fringe and 2019 Edinburgh International Science
 Festival, where user feedback commended this as a key intervention which created an enabling
 environment for autistic audiences. The packs received extensive media coverage and a mention
 in a Scottish Parliament motion recognising the Fringe’s progress in accessibility. Internationally,
 May’s work informed a 2019 British Council report on accessibility in Canadian theatre.

 The AAF also exemplifies researchers’ impact on the development of emergent artists. It led to
 tours for commissioned work, inspired new company Stealth Aspies and its successful ACE
 application, and motivated the launch of a monthly neurodivergent comedy night in Brighton. In
 Paris, as European coordinator for Artslant, Guerin ran a residency program for emerging artists,
 as well as mentoring young and emerging artists towards exhibiting their work. Allain’s consultancy
 for the Conservatoire for Dance and Drama enabled conservatoire practitioners to develop their
 practice and positively shaped the education of emergent performers.

 In conclusion, our research has contributed to economic sustainability and prosperity in the
 creative sector, provided volunteering and employment opportunities, informed service provision,
 created community cohesion, shaped inclusive arts practices, and improved mental, physical and
 emotional health. Equally importantly, it has challenged attitudes, informed understanding,
 improved communication, and achieved positive impact from the local to the global.




                                                                                             Page 18
