Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Huddersfield

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 8 Chemistry

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The University of Huddersfield’s vision is to be an inspiring, innovative University of international
 renown. Underneath the overarching institutional strategy, the University’s Research Strategy has
 a primary vision of excellent research with impact contributing to important advances in human
 knowledge and significant improvements to the global quality of life. To achieve this, thematic
 Areas of Strategic Research Importance (ASRIs) have been identified including Materials and
 Health, the principal foci of our UoA8 submission. ASRIs embrace and promote interdisciplinary
 research and whilst Huddersfield’s Unit of Assessment 8 is a submission led by the Department
 of Chemical Sciences within the School of Applied Sciences (AS), our research involves close
 collaboration with colleagues in other departments within AS (including Biological and
 Geographical Sciences, Pharmacy and Optometry).

 (i) Unit context and structure:
 In REF2014, our focus was on strengthening three main research groups (Synthetic and Physical
 Organic Chemistry, Materials and Catalysis and Supramolecular and Structural Chemistry) but
 due to the recruitment of new staff, initiating the Chemical Engineering programme (in 2015) and
 growth in research programmes, the research landscape within UoA8 significantly changed in the
 early part of the REF cycle. Resultantly, since REF2014, these research groups have expanded
 and together with new expertise within the School, they have matured leading to the creation of
 four defined research centres that are housed within the Department of Chemical Sciences. Other
 developments more widely within the School have seen an expansion in Pharmacology and Drug
 Discovery leading to new opportunities for interdisciplinary research. The philosophy underpinning
 the development of these research centres is to harness the available expertise both within AS
 and other Schools and to focus our activities into specific areas of expertise. Whilst we have a
 departmental structure within the School, these Research Centres are not organised along
 departmental lines but cross the various disciplines. This serves many purposes including the
 breaking down of barriers that can exist in a departmental structure and promotes communication
 between scientists with different skill sets. Staff are primary members of one research centre but
 can be affiliate members of other centres thereby further promoting interdisciplinary research
 across the spectrum of activity within the School. An overview of the research centres within AS
 and those that drive research in UoA8 (highlighted in blue) are presented below:

                   Research Centers and Facilities in the School of Applied Sciences


                   Pharmaceutics and    Pharmaceutical          Microbial          Evolutionary          Biorefinery
                     Drug Delivery     Policy and Practice     Therapeutics         Genomics            Engineering &
                                                               And Infection                            Bioprocessing
    Research
    Centers




                    Global Disaster        Centre for            Control         Chemical synthesis
                                       Biomarker Research                           and design           Structural,
                   Resilience Centre
                                                                                                         Molecular &
                                                              Centre for Human                        Dynamic Modelling
                      Biopolymer       Cellular & Molecular     and Physical     Pharmacology and
                    Research Centre     Models of Disease        Geography         therapeutics       Functional Materials



                        Analytical     Analytical Chemistry     Bio-imaging        Bioinformatics     Tissue Culture Suite
                      Biochemistry
      Facilities




                   Mass Spectrometry          NMR                   X-Ray            Genomics                IPOS
                                                               Crystallography




                                                                                                                             2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Chemical Synthesis and Design: The focus of this centre is to develop new synthetic routes and
 chemistries to generate novel chemicals with applications in both industry and academia. As
 examples, the activities of the centre include medicinal chemistry, where the aim is to develop
 novel compounds for drug development, and heterocyclic chemistry which supports many of the
 advances in modern functional materials. Topics under active study include:

        Translational catalysis
        Asymmetric synthesis
        Heterocyclic chemistry
        Medicinal chemistry
        Mechanistic organic chemistry
        Carbohydrate and natural product chemistry
        Analytical chemistry
 Structural, Molecular and Dynamic Modelling: The activities of this centre focus on
 supramolecular and structural chemistry with a specific interest in the formation of transition metal
 complexes and/or the structural characterisation of these metal containing species. In addition,
 dynamic modelling of molecules and their interaction with the environment, biological and other
 molecules is a new development in this centre. The centres activities include:

        X-ray diffraction
        Molecular self-assembly
        Coordination chemistry
        Solid state chemistry
        Novel semi-conductor materials
        Structural characterisation
        Dynamic modelling in silico
 Functional Materials Research Centre: This interdisciplinary group [linked with the Doctoral
 Training Centre (DTC) materials centre in the School of Computing and Engineering] has interests
 in various areas of materials chemistry including the study of ordered and amorphous porous
 solids and functionalised solids for application in catalysis and absorption, surface science,
 synthesis and electrical and magnetic characterisation of mixed metal oxides, the synthesis and
 characterisation of new transition metal complexes of relevance to light emitting devices and solar
 cells and the computational modelling of solid-state and molecular materials. The centre also
 embraces exploration of chromic phenomena and stimuli responsive molecules which have wide
 ranging applications in variable transmission devices. Activities within the centre include:

        Photochromic and electrochromic materials chemistry
        Dye-sensitised photovoltaics and light emitting materials
        Optical and electron transfer materials
        Electronic solid-state materials
        Computational materials modelling
        Advanced thermal methods for materials synthesis and characterisation
        Inorganic biomaterials
        Biosensors

 Biorefinery Engineering and Bioprocessing Research Centre: Research in this centre falls
 into two main themes: bioprocess technologies (e.g. fermentation, extraction), and biorefinery
 integration. Here the aim is to create a dynamic, and integrated bioprocess industry that underpins
 global food security, health and wellbeing, sustainable chemicals and energy through novel
 technologies deployed within integrated biorefineries. Specific areas of interest include:

        Bioethanol production and the exploitation of co-products such as arabioxylans
        Fermentation and the synthesis of biochemicals and biofuels from sustainable raw
         materials
                                                                                                     2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Industrial ecology
         Cereals as a raw material for food and non-food processes
 Pharmacology and Therapeutics: During this REF cycle, there has been a significant expansion
 in pharmacology thereby promoting interdisciplinary research within AS. Collaboration with a
 multitude of scientists across the Chemistry-Biology-Pharmacology-Pharmacy interface is
 facilitated allowing a direct line-of-sight between target identification, chemical synthesis and
 pharmacological evaluation. Chemistry is instrumental in this pipeline as it provides new
 compounds for evaluation encouraging a holistic approach to interdisciplinary work.
 Correspondingly, whilst Pharmacology and Therapeutics has also been submitted to UoAs 3
 and 5 many chemists are members of this research centre. Research within this centre focuses
 on the development and evaluation of therapeutics designed to target cancer and neurological
 disorders. Both phenotypic evaluation of novel chemicals and the development of targeted
 therapeutics designed to target specific biochemical pathways that are altered in disease are
 areas of specific interest in this centre. The centres activities include:

         Tumour metabolism and associated molecular vulnerabilities of cancer cells.
         Phenotypic evaluation of novel molecules and target deconvolution.
         Drugs from Nature Targeting Inflammation
         Cannabinoids in the management of disease
         Biomarker discovery
         Identifying biomarkers and treatments for psychiatric disorders

 This final section summarises the number of staff in this UoA. There are a total of 33 (31.5 FTE)
 academics and research staff in the Department of Chemical Sciences and all academics are
 appointed on teaching and research contracts. A total of 29 (28 FTE) academic and research staff
 will be returned to UoA8 with 27 classified as having significant responsibility for research (8
 professors, 4 readers, 11 senior lecturers, 3 lecturers and 1 university teaching fellow) and 2
 classified as Independent Researchers according to the University of Huddersfield’s REF code of
 practice. This represents a significant increase in the number of academic and research staff
 submitted to UoA8 compared to REF2014 (14.6 FTE submitted in 2014). Underpinning the
 academic staff, we currently have 9 post-doctoral research assistants and 2 research fellows who
 don’t formally meet the requirements for inclusion in REF2021 but contribute to the Departments
 research activity and culture.
 (ii) Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact

 Our strategic aims for research as stated in REF2014 were as follows:

 A1       To grow the research programmes of our Research Groups in areas where we have the
          ability to deliver internationally recognised scientific excellence and socio-economic
          impact
 A2       To guide the focus of our Research Groups to match industrial, governmental and EU
          priorities, thereby growing and diversifying our funding base
 A3       To facilitate collaborative research, via both academic and industrial pathways (beyond
          and within the University)
 A4       To sustain a vibrant graduate school, to provide the intellectual and cultural stimulus
          needed for postgraduate training
 A5       To ensure our research has an impact on teaching, through lecture courses,
          undergraduate project work in our research labs and student involvement in seminar and
          visitor programmes
 A6       To engage with the public locally and nationally, in schools, and through public lectures
          and other media activities.

 The success of our research strategy is evidenced by the progress that the UoA has made since
 REF2014. As stated above, we are now submitting almost double the number of staff with 89% of
                                                                                                  2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff being classified as having significant responsibility for research or are independent
 researchers. Our research is concentrated in 5 professorially led research centres as opposed to
 the 3 research groups identified in REF2014 (A1). This has led to the increase in both quality and
 number of outputs with a total of 475 in the 2014-2020 period, 43.2% of which were in the top 10%
 of journals by CiteScore percentile (SciVal analysis). Collaborative research internationally has
 grown as exemplified by the fact that 38.5% of our outputs have been published with international
 partners (A1, A3). Specific examples of international collaboration leading to prominent outputs
 include the collaboration between Patmore and a group from Jinan University China resulting in
 a Nature Communication publication. Intra-Departmental collaborations are also very strong with
 work between Gill, Rice and Patmore on the work of iron-catalysed carbon-carbon bond
 formation leading to a Nature Chemistry publication. Within AS, collaborative research between
 the UoAs present within the school has also grown with many of the staff collaborating with both
 Pharmacy and Biology (A1, A3). For example, Elliott and Rice collaborate with Phillips (UoA3)
 and Allison (UoA5) on inorganic compounds for chemosensitivity testing which has led to high
 impacting publications (e.g., Angewandte 2018). There is also a strong collaboration between
 Hemming and Olajide (UoA3) focused upon neurodegenerative disorders (Bio. Med. Chem 2020)
 and between Morris and Smith (UoA3) on bioactive peptides.

 As described in more detail in section 3, our research income has grown ca. 2.4-fold from £1.507M
 in REF2014 to £3.602M REF2021. Our research funding base also demonstrates increased
 diversification of funding (A2) with collaborative research with industry being a prominent feature
 in REF2021 (A2). The sustainability of our research during the next REF cycle is exemplified by a
 significant number of granted patents and sustained research funding that has been recently
 awarded or spans the current REF period cut off (see section 3).

 Housed within the School is Innovative Physical Organic Solutions (IPOS) which is a GMP
 accredited facility which carries out analysis for local companies (Rosemont Pharmaceuticals and
 Thornton and Ross) as well as many other analytical commercial services. This facility has a
 turnover of £300K p.a. but is also heavily embedded within the research environment carrying out
 the School’s mass spectroscopy service and elemental analysis. Their expertise is disseminated
 across the School allowing (A3) their state-of-the-art analytical methods to be applied to the
 research environment. Collaborations have led to some high impacting results (e.g. Williams
 Angewandte 2020). The unit is also active in the training of undergraduate students for the
 analytical industry, employing between 1~2 UoH placement students per annum as well as final
 year project students. Knowledge of contemporary analytical techniques are also disseminated
 amongst the research community allowing significant skills-research overlap. With regards to (A4),
 the number of research doctoral awards has increased from 26 in REF2014 to 64 in this REF cycle
 which represents a significant increase in postgraduate training.

 Our research continues to enthuse our undergraduates and taught postgraduates though
 invigorating lecture courses that highlight our research activities. Campbell was awarded the
 Institute of Chemical Engineer’s (IChemE’s) Davidson Medal (2020) for the outstanding mentoring
 of young chemical engineers (A5) and Belton and Campbell were jointly awarded the 2017
 IChemE’s Hutchinson Medal for their stimulating paper in Education for Chem. Eng., 2016. Our
 Chemical Sciences seminar programme is openly advertised, and final-year undergraduates are
 actively encouraged to attend. All undergraduate students have the opportunity to undertake a
 final-year research project and these are invariably within a research-active group. Perhaps the
 most obvious exemplar is our sustained record of publications in leading journals within which our
 undergraduates have played a significant role and are credited with co-authorship (e.g. Booth,
 Chem Commun 2014; Qureshi, Angewandte 2020; Harper, Angwandte 2018; Comia and Ross
 Inorg. Chem. 2020) (A5). Several of our undergraduates have also published their research work
 in the UoH journal ‘Fields’ (https://www.fieldsjournal.org.uk/), established in 2015, to capture our
 students’ contributions to research (Whitehead also serves on the editorial board of Fields). Such
 is the infectious nature of our enthusiasm for research that many of our first-class graduates apply
 to undertake research studentships with us.


                                                                                                    2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Public engagement is widespread (section 4), and several staff are active on social media
 platforms. The school also participates in major initiatives such as European Researchers Night
 (2016 and 2017 Gabbutt/Heron demonstration lecture) and has run Chemistry Teachers
 Enhancement days (2015 Hopwood) (A6). In order to further realise our role in the local education
 community our recently completed laboratory block houses a dedicated and bespoke schools
 liaison facility/outreach laboratory used to house a series of GSCE / A-level practical sessions for
 schools and colleges to support their chemistry provision.

 In REF2014, the stated impact strategy for UoA8 was to continue to encourage and promote
 impactful research in existing areas of research strength and to develop new research activities in
 fundamental science which will have a significant socio-economic impact. Throughout this REF
 cycle, the importance of impact has been emphasized through various impact training events
 organised in AS (research away-days and workshops for example) and our suite of impact case
 studies represent impact from both existing (Heron) and new (Du, Campbell) research areas.
 Heron’s case study is built on extensive collaborative research with international industrial partners
 as described above whereas impact case studies from Du and Campbell represent new research
 in chemical engineering (established in 2015). Looking beyond REF2021, our strategy for
 supporting research with impact will continue along the same lines but with greater emphasis on
 training staff and the incorporation of impact in their research plans alongside School support to
 identify and promote projects with impact.

 (iii) Future strategic goals for research and impact

 Having achieved our objectives from REF2014, we have developed a new set of strategic goals
 that look beyond REF2021. The underlying theme is to drive our research forward by building
 upon our existing strengths and developing new collaborative relationships with academic
 institutions and end users both nationally and internationally. Our strategy for research and impact
 is as follows:

 A1 Our Research Strategy will continue to grow the research programmes of our Research
    Groups/Centres in areas where we have the ability to deliver internationally recognised
    scientific excellence and socio-economic impact. This will be enabled by focusing upon
    multidisciplinary research covering activities within the School, within the University and with
    external collaborators and end users. To facilitate greater interdisciplinary research
    collaboration, the Institute of Molecular Medicine will be established within AS focusing on a
    ‘bench to bedside’ based strategy to drug discovery.
 A2 To continue developing the infrastructure through the continued development of core facilities
    (which remain free at the point of use) and research laboratories in order to enhance the
    research environment and culture.
 A3 To continue to support and develop staff alongside attracting new research active staff with
    the aim of enhancing our ‘critical mass’ of research active academics and support staff.
 A4 Aligned with the University’s strategy map, our aim is to improve the quality of research outputs
    (with 75% or more staff achieving 3*/4* publications by 2025 and an average of 15 citations
    per published output), increase our research and knowledge exchange income and develop
    strategic research collaborations with other world class academic institutions.
 A5 Linked to improved quality in our research, our strategy for impact focuses on conducting high
    quality applied research and establishing formal links with unique businesses and end users.

 (iv) Research Culture

 Open Research: As an institution, the University supports the principles set out in the Concordat
 on Open Research Data and is committed to open research. In support of open research, the
 University has an open access policy and a research data management policy. The University
 has invested in systems to facilitate Open Research including the Elsevier PURE management
 information system and a University Data Repository and content management system (Box).
 Additional central support comes from the appointment of Open Access Manager and Research
 Data Management Officer whose roles are to provide information, to assist in the delivery of
                                                                                                  2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mandatory central training for staff and students, to support the wider open research strategy and
 to assist academic staff in making data open and accessible.

 As a UoA that prides itself on its values in applied and fundamental research that strives to make
 a difference, we seek to continually develop and nurture an open, collaborative research culture.
 We achieve this through encouraging open collaborative and collegiate interactions within and
 across research centres and through a vibrant public engagement programme. We actively pursue
 a policy of open access to our research where feasible and encourage staff to integrate strategies
 into research proposals to maximise engagement with and use of research outputs by research
 users and different audiences. Funds are available to ensure open-access publications where
 appropriate and relevant data is archived in public repositories (e.g. Cambridge Crystallographic
 Data Centre for single crystal data).

 Research Integrity: In the development and conduct of our research, Research Integrity is of
 paramount concern. As an institution, we adhere to the UKRI developed Concordat on Research
 Integrity and ensure research is conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal and professional
 frameworks, obligations and standards. The institutional Code of Practice for Research, research
 ethics and integrity policy and reporting statements are publicly available on the University
 website. Within AS, research and integrity matters are co-ordinated by School Research Ethics
 and Integrity Committees (SREIC) which is responsible for implementing the Universities policies
 and procedures in relation to research governance. In addition, the School has a nominated
 Research Integrity Champion (Phillips) whose role is to promote good research practice, ensure
 that the principles and relevant standards are embedded in cross-University and local guidance
 and to ensure that advice is available to staff and students regarding the issue of research
 misconduct and the reporting thereof. Research Ethics and Research Integrity training of all staff
 and PGR students is embedded into the induction programme and assessment of research ethics
 is an integral part of all research and enterprise grant applications. Research misconduct is taken
 seriously across the Institution and all matters pertaining to research misconduct for PGR students
 and research staff are pursued along Institutional guidelines. Within the School, research integrity
 matters extend beyond UoA boundaries and cover collaborative research with colleagues in other
 UoA’s. For example, compliance with the Human Tissue Act license (human tissue licence number
 12641) is also ensured via SREIC ethics approval for projects in interdisciplinary areas such as
 drug discovery.

 2. People

 (i) Staffing strategy and staff development:
 Our staffing strategy emerges from our strategic aim to build a research base that is internationally
 recognised for the quality of its research. With this in mind, we have focused on the continued
 development of areas of expertise as described in REF2014 (now reorganised into research
 centres as described in section 1) and expanded into new areas of research (e.g. chemical
 engineering). This has been achieved through the appointment of a balanced combination of
 experienced and early career researchers.

 Of the 16 academic staff that were returned in REF2014, 10 remain (Cooke, Elliott, Gill, Gillie,
 Harding, Hemming, Heron, Moran, Patmore and Rice). During this REF cycle, a number of
 appointments and promotions have been made Bexon (L), Bostock (L), Gabbutt (SL), Molinari
 (SL), Scattergood (RF), Wedge (SL) and Whitehead (L). The Department has also been
 expanded with the creation of a Chemical Engineering group with the appointment of Angelis-
 Dimakis (SL) Campbell (Prof), Chin (SL), Du (appointed as Reader), Liu (SL), Singh (SL) and
 Supuk (SL) The appointment process is co-ordinated by Human Resources and research plays
 a key role in both the short listing, interview and decision-making processes. These appointments
 have strengthened pre-existing areas (Whitehead and Scattergood – inorganic/supramolecular;
 Bexon and Bostock – forensic science) and opened new avenues of research (Molinari –
 computational) as well as expanding research into Chemical Engineering (Angelis-Dimakis,
 Campbell, Chin, Du, Liu, Singh and Supuk).

                                                                                                     2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Academic staff are supported by a strong contingent of technical support with both the NMR facility
 and the analytical suite staffed by full-time PhD qualified personnel. This is coupled by a technical
 team with an excellent knowledge base of chemical provision. The IPOS team are also fully
 embedded within the research programme and have an exhaustive knowledge of analytical
 instrumentation and method development.

 Going forward beyond REF2021, our staffing strategy will continue to focus on the appointment of
 staff with excellent research experience in pre-established areas as well as Areas of Strategic
 Research Importance (ASRI) within the School. This includes the establishment of the Institute of
 Molecular Medicine which is the focus of the School’s Health ASRI and this UoA will be an integral
 part of the Institute alongside colleagues in UoA5 and UoA8. Our focus is not just on appointing
 research excellent staff, but we also provide a supportive environment for staff who are returning
 from career breaks. For example, during this REF cycle we have appointed three Daphne Jackson
 Fellows within the School, the aim of which is to support women returning to academic life following
 career breaks to raise a family. Our staffing strategy will therefore continue to support this
 approach.

 With regards to staff development, our approach is aligned closely to the Universities staff
 development processes and a multitude of opportunities exist for staff. For example, staff in UoA8
 (academic and support staff) have undertaken management and leadership modules leading to
 the award of Member (2) or Fellow (3) of the Chartered Management Institute (CMI). Alongside
 staff in other areas of the School who have also completed or are enrolled on CMI programmes
 of study, this ambitious scheme is designed to provide managers and leaders with an
 internationally recognised qualification in management and the strategic aim of the institution is to
 become the world’s first institution led and managed by Chartered managers. In addition, all staff
 are encouraged to become Fellows of the Higher Education Academy. All staff returned to
 REF2021 possess either a FHEA or SFHEA teaching qualification. All staff are strongly
 encouraged to be members of their respective scientific societies (e.g. Royal Society of Chemistry,
 Institute of Chemical Engineers and Forensic Science Society) Finally, all staff submitted to
 REF2021 have PhD qualifications and career development is strongly supported. An annual
 promotion exercise is undertaken following institutional guidelines and during this REF cycle, staff
 have been promoted to Professor (Heron, Morris, Elliott, Patmore and Du) and Reader (Harding
 and Moran).

 The University is also a signatory to the Technicians Commitment which is a sector-wide initiative
 led by the Science Council, which will ensure greater visibility, recognition, career development
 and sustainability for technicians across all disciplines.

 (ii) Support for postgraduate research students:
 Our research students are an integral part of our research activities and the School has invested
 heavily in this area since REF2014. The School has used QR money (£4.449M over this REF
 cycle) to create fully funded studentships across the full spectrum of research activity, thirty of
 which have been awarded to staff submitted in UoA8. Funding covers fees and a bursary together
 with a consumables budget ranging from £2,000 to £10,000 per annum depending on the project
 requirements. In addition to school-based support, thirteen studentships have also been funded
 from the EPSRC doctoral training program designed to support the growth of interdisciplinary
 materials-based research across AS and the School of Computing and Engineering. As stated in
 section 1, the number of research doctoral degrees awarded has increased from 26 in REF2014
 to 64 in this REF cycle reflecting substantial and sustained growth in PGR provision. All PGR
 students are interviewed by at least two academic staff, one of which has to be a senior academic
 and if successful, they are assigned a minimum of two supervisors. The main supervisor must (i)
 have a PhD and (ii) be publishing at an internationally recognised standard (co-supervisors will
 normally have a doctoral degree but maybe new to supervision). Senior Research Fellows are
 encouraged to take supervisory roles in conjunction with an experienced academic (e.g.
 Heron/Aiken and Elliott/Scattergood) and all supervisors undergo an initial three-part training
 course with refresher courses every 3-years to ensure they are up-to-date with regards to PGR

                                                                                                     2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 regulations/processes. These criteria ensure that students are assigned a supervisory team with
 the necessary research experience and expertise to train and manage PGR students.

 With regards to infrastructure to support students the Director of Graduate Education (DoGE)
 assisted by two PGR and Finance Administrators oversees the management, training and
 progression of PGR students. On enrolment, students will undergo a full programme of induction
 activities covering health & safety, research culture, expectations of supervisors and students,
 PGR degree rules and regulations, progression monitoring and research ethics and integrity. A
 number of on-line resources and support are available via the graduate school. Research integrity
 is fundamentally important at all levels and students are informed of the Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity and the consequences of non-compliance. This, together with additional
 information about support for students, is available on our Brightspace VLE in a defined module
 called Applied Science PGR. Three PGR Progression Boards are run each year to track PGR
 progression, viva outcomes, misconduct, suspensions and timeliness of events. With regards to
 pastoral care, the School has seven experienced senior staff that act as pastoral mentors for
 PGRs, overseen by and including the DoGE. Any cases that require specialist support are referred
 to the University’s Wellbeing support service who have dedicated PGR provision.

 Due to the nature of our research and the proximity of staff to research laboratories, supervisors
 will typically meet students on a daily basis. More formal meetings are held monthly and notes
 from both students and supervisors are recorded in SkillsForge. Progression viva voce
 examinations are held after 9 and 21 months and students are required to present a report
 detailing their progress and discuss research plans with at least two independent academic staff.
 For progression to be approved, the examiners must be satisfied that: (i) the student has made
 sufficient progress intellectually, (ii) data accrual is of sufficient quantity and quality to enable the
 thesis to be constructed, and (iii) future plans for completing the research are realistic within the
 timescale of the studentship. Research training needs are also discussed at this stage together
 with any issues that the students may have with supervision. In cases where problems exist
 between student and supervisory teams arise, these are typically managed by the second
 supervisor (all PGR students are allocated two academics for the supervisory team) or the DoGE
 and if required, the Associate Dean for Research and the Dean. In extreme cases, this may involve
 a change of project and new supervisory team, but these cases are rare. At all times however, the
 interests of both the student and supervisors are carefully considered.

 We also support students to develop their research and teaching careers through (i) attendance
 and presentation at conferences (ii) publishing their research and (iii) contributing to
 undergraduate teaching sessions. With regards to conference attendance, students (and staff) are
 encouraged to attend one national and one international conference during their studies and the
 School provides additional funding to support this. Through this REF cycle, the School has directly
 invested £280k in supporting conference attendance for both students and staff. Attendance is
 conditional on presenting their research in the form of either an oral or poster presentation. We
 also ensure that researchers funded on commercial grants are not disadvantaged by contractual
 confidentiality clauses and several have presented talks (Zonidis, 27th ISHC Kyoto, 2019) and
 posters [(Wilson, 27th ISHC Kyoto, 2019); (Wallace, 9th ISOP Paris, 2019); (Edgar, Broadbent,
 Armitage 26th ISHC Regensberg, 2017)] at international meetings. Many students gain experience
 of presenting either orally or via posters at the annual PGR conference and 3-minute thesis
 competition. This gives PGRs an opportunity to showcase their research and receive feedback on
 the strengths and areas for improvement before they present externally. We also encourage
 students to publish their research prior to the viva voce examination and this is done together with
 the supervisor who can introduce and guide them through the publication process. Intellectual
 property is also an important consideration with regards to publication and impact and experienced
 supervisors will also guide students through this process. Central University support is also
 available through Research and Enterprise to ensure that intellectual property is protected prior to
 disclosure.

 We also encourage PhD students to see research and teaching as symbiotic and of mutual benefit
 and to this end, we provide students with opportunities to gain teaching experience. For School
                                                                                                2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funded students, this is mandatory but it is available to all students. Teaching does not typically
 involve lecturing but predominantly involves laboratory demonstration, small group
 workshops/tutorials (with academic staff), co-supervision of undergraduate projects and
 involvement in outreach activities. Students gain experience of presenting through various routes
 including the Postgraduate Research Science Society, a student inspired initiative that provides
 students with the opportunity to present to other students and academic staff in a supportive
 environment. In addition, students are encouraged to attend and interact with internationally
 renowned scientists as part of the Schools seminar programme.

 (iii) Support for academic staff:
 Underpinning the support we offer to our academic and research staff is the general principle that
 staff should retain autonomy over their research careers and are not compelled to pursue
 particular research agendas other than (i) to generate high quality research outputs leading to
 impact upon society and (ii) train the next generation of research active scientists to the highest
 standards. Huddersfield University is committed to Vitae’s Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers and as a School and UoA, we provide a variety of mechanisms to
 ensure that staff are supported throughout their tenure. The Universities Personal Development
 and Performance Review (PDPR) process provides an opportunity to manage performance and
 career development on an annual basis. Any barriers to successful delivery of research (and
 teaching) targets are discussed and plans to reduce the impact of any barriers are developed on
 a case-by-case basis. In addition to the annual PDPR process, we operate an ‘open door’ policy
 where staff can discuss the full range of issues affecting performance with line managers and
 senior colleagues. Mentoring of staff also occurs both informally (e.g. through collaboration with
 colleagues in research centres) or more formally through the appointment of academic mentors.
 Our strategic aim is to create an inclusive research environment and culture where staff are able
 to achieve increasingly more demanding targets in a manner that is supportive.

 As indicated above, the School of Applied Sciences has invested QR funding into PhD
 studentships and strategically, these are awarded to (i) new staff typically within two years of
 appointment to help establish/support their research or (ii) established staff that have
 multidisciplinary research projects. Over the current REF period, the School of Applied Sciences
 has directly sponsored fully funded studentships (£4.449M) and these provide new staff in
 particular with an opportunity to get their research off the ground during the early part of their
 tenure. This support has also been used strategically to build areas of interdisciplinary research
 within and between research centres. In addition, new staff are not over-burdened with heavy
 teaching loads in the first year of their tenure and this is done with the aim of establishing their
 research activities.

 Additional support within the School included an annual bid for key equipment required to expand
 our research activities and over the last REF cycle, the School of Applied Sciences invested a
 total of £3.775M in new equipment (see section 3). With regards to access to equipment we
 operate under the general principle that if the School has purchased it, then it is available to
 everyone (provided they are fully trained to use it). Academic and research staff therefore have
 access to a wide range of equipment and facilities (see section 3).

 At the University level, funding is available on a competitive basis from the Vice Chancellor’s
 Strategic Fund, University Research Fund (URF), the Collaborative Ventures Fund (CVF) and
 Proof of Concept fund. Within this REF cycle, the School has been awarded £682K from URF to
 support multidisciplinary research, £415K of which involved a joint project to Build the Foundations
 for the Institute of Molecular Medicine. This project focused predominantly on harnessing the drug
 discovery capacity of the School involving staff from all three UoAs submitted to REF2021 (3, 5
 and 8). In other examples, a one-off, matched-funding award of £590K was made from the VC
 Strategic Fund in a collaboration with Essilor for work on functional electrochromic eyewear. We
 also provide funding for attendance at conference travel through a staff development fund.



                                                                                                    2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (iv) Equality and Diversity:

 As described in the institutional environment statement, the University is passionate about
 equality, diversity and inclusion in all aspects of its business. The Institution has established the
 University Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity Enhancement Committee (UEDIEC) to oversee the
 implementation of University EDI related policies, Code of Practice, frameworks and schemes for
 staff and students. In 2020, the University signed the Race Equality Charter (REC) and is working
 towards equal representation of women at most senior levels. Other examples of equality work
 include enhanced support for Black Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) students across the
 Institution. The University is a Stonewall Global Diversity Champion member thereby
 demonstrating its commitment to supporting LGBT+ and disabled staff and students. These and
 other institutional level policies (described in the institutional ES) impact upon the composition of
 committee structures and policy within each School. The University participates in Vitae’s ‘Every
 Researcher Counts’ to improve equality and diversity for researchers within higher education and
 EDI is an important aspect of our commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers and our HR Excellence in Research Action Plan.

 The University and the School of Applied Sciences has long been committed to promoting gender
 equality in science, and this is evidenced by it achieving Bronze Athena SWAN status in 2015,
 followed by Silver level accreditation in 2018. The School champions good practice and is the
 highest Athena SWAN award level holder in the University with some of its staff acting as internal
 consultants or critical friends to other Schools. Many initiatives related to gender equality have
 been developed and trialled in Applied Sciences and then either rolled out to the whole University
 or shared with other Schools. The School’s Athena SWAN committee expanded in 2018 to
 become the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee, so that its remit widened to include all
 aspects of equality work, and this approach was later mirrored by the University as a whole,
 evidenced by the formation of UEDIEC (described above) which reports directly to Senate. The
 School constantly strives to create an inclusive and supportive environment for its researchers
 and makes considerable effort to maintain an excellent mentoring programme, abide by a Core
 Hours system, support career progression and applications for promotion, develop case-by-case
 enhanced maternity provision and support in order to maintain research momentum, support
 flexible working, and provide access to women-only national initiatives such as Aurora (Harding
 and Sweeney).

 With regards to preparations for REF2021, the Universities Equality and Diversity Impact
 Assessment looked at all protected characteristics with regards to the SRR/IR identification
 selection process but of these, only gender showed an overall impact. Of all the UoA’s submitted
 by the University to REF2021, UoA8 had one of the smallest variances (-1.85%) with 85.2% and
 83.3% of males and females identified as SRR/IR respectively. The Equality Impact Assessment
 (EIA) for UoA8 indicated that the SRR/IR selection process has had little impact upon gender
 representation. The output selection process for REF2021 was based first and foremost on the
 quality of outputs as determined by both internal and external review. Where outputs of equal merit
 were identified, outputs were chosen to ensure diversity of staff was employed. A total of 5 female
 (17.9%) and 23 male (82.1%) staff were identified as SRR/IR and using the output selection criteria
 described above, 6 (9.1%) and 60 (90.9%) outputs were submitted from female and male staff
 respectively. This broadly reflects the gender distribution within this UoA.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income:
 Our income during this REF cycle is £3.602M, up by ca. 2.4-fold from REF2014 (£1.507M). The
 majority of our income now comes from EU industry, commerce and public corporations (£1.223M,
 33.9% of income) with other significant funding coming from UK industry, commerce and public
 corporations (£974K, 27.1% of income), BEIS Research Councils, The Royal Society, British
 Academy and the Royal Society of Edinburgh (£663K, 18.4% of income) and UK-based charities
 (£517K, 14.4% of income). Our portfolio of funding has expanded and diversified significantly from
 REF2014 with the income generated from EU industry, commerce and public corporation’s
                                                                                                   2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sources representing the most extreme change (£1.223M in REF2021 compared to £0 returned
 in REF2014). This expansion of funding was driven by the colour related work of Gabbutt and
 Heron through collaboration with a series of companies with key interests in functional colorants
 including: Essilor (France), Hoya (Japan), Sony (Germany / Japan), Security Fibres, QinetiQ, Dstl
 and Arlabion Ltd. This illustrates the importance of this commercially driven research area. Indeed
 Essilor, now Essilor-Luxottica, have supported the Huddersfield team since August 2012 and
 which includes 20% academic staff time, fully funded PDRFs and PGRs. Other examples of
 commercial funding include Hopwood whose collaboration, concerning lead in water, with
 Yorkshire Water has led to £200K of investment, Morris collaborating with Biofac (Danish
 Pharmaceutical Company) and PGR support from AstraZeneca (Gill) and Leo Pharma (Morris).
 Our interaction with commercial bodies also embraces government co-funding schemes such as
 Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (Campbell, AB Vista Ltd.) and Access Innovation, [(Leeds City
 Region, business development of new products and processes) Heron, Arlabion Ltd.].

 Our income from BEIS Research Councils, The Royal Society, British Academy and the Royal
 Society of Edinburgh has grown 10-fold since REF2014 and strategically this is an important area
 of focus for the next REF cycle. Funding from RCUK includes EPSRC via the Materials DTC with
 studentships supervised by Molinari (×4), Elliott (×3), Moran (×2), Cooke (×2) and Wedge (x1).
 Moran, Gill and Patmore have recorded individual success with awards from the Leverhulme
 Trust including work on iodonium salts (Moran, £107.5K) and electrochemical synthesis with
 iodine compounds (Moran, £173k), Total Synthesis of Aconotine (Gill, £116.5k) and Electron
 Transfer Studies between H-Bonded Dimers (Patmore, £68.5K).

 Looking forward into the next REF cycle, the sustainability of our research is exemplified by recent
 awards. For example, Campbell was awarded £394K (EPSRC Core Equipment Grant
 EP/V035940/1) for a Home Energy Resources Unit (HERU). Follow-on funding has been awarded
 to Heron/Gabbutt by Essilor (£308K), Hoya (£128K) and the Dstl (£138K) to continue their work
 on functional dyes.

 Income generation is a key strategic objective for the next REF cycle and central support for
 research is provided by the Research and Enterprise (R&E). The Universities 2019-2025 strategy
 map (SM) has a set of key performance indicators (KPIs) for both Innovative and International
 research that are designed to drive improved performance and the University Research
 Committee coordinates our research strategy. In AS, support is available for research grant
 applications and commercial contracts through the appointment of a research development
 manager (RDM) and business development manager (BDM). In terms of support for commercial
 ventures, the BDM oversees all contract development, NDAs, liaison with the Legal department
 and IP protection, as well as maintaining familiarity with all aspects of available commercial funding
 and government initiatives specifically aimed to nurture academic/commercial collaboration. New
 ventures can be supported internally by the seed fund administered R&E, the Collaborative
 Venture Fund. As an example, this has funded IP protection and in ovo studies for drug discovery
 programmes (Rice >£30K). Staff are encouraged and supported to contribute to the school-wide
 income target through traditional applications to RCUK, government innovation funding initiatives
 and to Charities/Foundations. Clear indication of research targets is discussed during annual staff
 appraisals and support takes the form of, for example, themed research away-days where good
 practice is disseminated by successful grant holders, grant-writing workshops and provision of
 funding opportunities bulletins from R&E. Many staff are now coached in garnering and recording
 impact by internal events (away-days) and external consultants (Vertigo Ventures).

 Infrastructure and facilities:
 The School has continued to make a major financial commitment to strengthening our in-house
 research facilities ensuring they continue to remain state-of-the-art. This is enhanced with the
 £8.3M investment in a new teaching laboratory block which has allowed the conversion and
 refurbishment of previous teaching infrastructure thereby freeing up more space for research and
 correspondingly an increase in capacity. This has also allowed the creation of dedicated research
 student scriptoria. For years 1 and 2 of PhD study these are multi-disciplinary shared spaces
 allowing for the cross-fertilisation of scientific ideas and collegiality. For final-year postgraduates
                                                                                                        2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 there are quiet rooms available conducive to thesis writing. In addition, we have dedicated
 laboratory facilities within the 3M Buckley Innovation Centre (3M BIC) housing the test-rigs for
 analysing lead in water pipes with Yorkshire Water (Hopwood) and the Zeiss confocal microscopy
 suite used for inter-disciplinary research focused on drug discovery. Access to high performance
 computing facilities within the University (and 8 node high performance computing cluster from
 Icetope located in 3M BIC) is available for both materials and drug discovery-based projects.

 The School maintains a strong commitment to instrumentation and the facilities have further
 increased in number and diversity, allowing access to a wide variety of equipment and a significant
 reduction in waiting time. Over this REF cycle, the School has invested £3.775M in equipment and
 £3.282M refurbishing laboratories in the Joseph Priestley building. Access to all instrumentation
 (as well as solvents, gasses and many consumables) is free at the point of use to promote
 egalitarian division of funds and acts as an enabler for both establishing and returning researchers.
 The School houses three dedicated synthetic research laboratories, an air-sensitive laboratory,
 computational facility, an analytical suite, a thermal methods unit, separate NMR and EPR
 spectroscopy facilities, and an X-ray laboratory. Molecular modelling infrastructure has been
 enhanced with the recent purchase of an Intel Xeon Processor E3v5 Family that controls a total
 of 176 cores with hyperthreads and with 2048GB memory.

 The NMR facility comprises of open-access 400 MHz and 300 MHz multi-nuclear instrumentation
 along with a 600 MHz instrument with a cryo-probe for dedicated technician-controlled analysis.
 The latter two instruments were recently purchased as part of a £650K-programme to increase
 NMR facilities. For larger items of equipment (NMR/MS/X-ray/confocal microscopy), a full-time
 research technician and/or academic has been appointed to run and maintain the facility.
 The EPR facility houses a JEOL JES-FA100 X-band spectrometer equipped with a variable
 temperature system. We also have a dedicated X-ray diffraction facility that houses three powder
 X-ray diffractometers (benchtop, high temperature and a D8 Advance), a small-angle X-ray
 (SAXS) and two single-crystals X-ray instruments (dual source Bruker Duo and Advance). The
 Advance diffractometer was upgraded recently with a new detector (~£60K). Also available for use
 is an analytical facility that includes 8 HPLC and GC instruments, ion chromatography, capillary
 electrophoresis, 2 GC-MS and a LC-MS. A bespoke UV-Vis-NIR spectrophotometer with a
 dedicated xenon lamp irradiation facility to enable variable temperature kinetic analysis of
 photoresponsive molecules has been purchased as well as Fluorescence (Horiba Scientific
 Fluoromax-4 Spectrophotometer) and fluorescence lifetime (Edinburgh Instruments Mini-Tau
 spectrometer (EPL-405)) instruments There is also access to numerous routine ATR-IR, UV-Vis,
 potentiostats and atomic absorption instrumentation as well as more specialised equipment such
 as ICP-MS (and OES), DSC, TG, electron microscopes, a hot-stage microscope, surface area
 analyser and X-ray fluorescence spectrometers.

 IPOS provides analytical expertise to both businesses and academics within Applied Sciences
 and across the University and is a focus for analytical research with facilities that include LC/MS,
 GC and GC-MS, ICP-MS, GPC-MALLS, ion chromatography and elemental analysis (Exeter
 Analytical CE440 Elemental Analyser). IPOS deliver both the mass spectrometry service (Q-TOF)
 and the elemental analysis for the School. Furthermore, they also offer method development of
 LC-MS, anionic ion chromatography and general chromatography expertise.

 As stated earlier, the School operates on the basis that its equipment and facilities are made
 available to all staff. This covers all areas of activity within the School (UoA’s 3, 5 and 8) and these
 facilities are illustrated in the organisational figure in Section 1. Due to the cross-disciplinary nature
 of the School’s research, Chemical Sciences also has access to both Biological and
 Pharmaceutical facilities (such as cell culture, molecular biology and pharmaceutics). For drug
 discovery-based research, this allows a direct line-of-sight for the drug development pipeline from
 target identification → chemical synthesis → pharmacological evaluation → patient treatment.




                                                                                                          2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration:
 Collaboration with academics and commercial partners is at the heart of our working and our
 collaborative links span the globe. It has been an essential strategic element of our success in
 achieving our objectives as laid out REF2014 and described in section 1. The extent of our
 collaboration with international partners and academic/corporate partnerships is reflected in the
 SciVal analysis of UoA8 outputs conducted between 2014 and November 2020. Outputs including
 international partners represent 38.5% of all our publications and 8.4% of our outputs include
 corporate partners. Collaboration with international partners also extends to patent applications
 generated within this REF cycle. Notable examples of our international collaborative work include:

    The established collaboration with the international medical device company Essilor (Gabbutt,
     Heron) has led to a family of international patents on electrochromic materials [PCT Int. Appl.
     (2018), WO2018127540; (2017), WO2017005824; (2015), WO2015040031]. In the area of
     functional materials Heron has a longstanding collaboration with Gentili (spectroscopy,
     artificial intelligence, Perugia) wherein UoH design dyes which are harnessed in fuzzy logic
     systems (Chem. Comm. 2016) and serve as artificial neuron models (Angewandte 2017).
     Computational provision guiding work on photochromic dyes (Chem. Comm. 2014) has been
     developed with Heron and Jacquemin (computational chemistry, Nantes) and theoretical
     studies concerning solar cell dyes with Ju (computational chemistry, Nanjing University of
     Science and Technology).
    Elliott, who was recently highlighted as one the emerging leaders in inorganic photochemistry
     [Inorg. Chem., 2016; (https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.6b02830)], has a
     collaboration with Toulouse University (Dixon, Inorg. Chem. 2020).
    Du, in collaboration with The Hong Kong Research Institute of Textiles and Apparel (Hong
     Kong Polytechnic University), was awarded a gold medal by the 46th International Exhibition
     of Inventionas of Geneva (2018) in recognition for research concerning ‘Textile Waste
     Recycling by Biological Methods’.

 Expanding our international reach is an integral part of our 2018-25 strategy map and through
 central University support, finances are available to enable academics to travel to global QS300
 institutions with the aim of (i) promoting our expertise in Huddersfield to other institutions and (ii)
 generating new research projects that will generate income and deliver high quality outputs and
 impact.

 On the national stage, examples of established collaborations include: Rice has longstanding
 collaborations with Cardiff (Pope, Dyes & Pigments 2020) and Warwick (Ward, Angewandte
 2020). Patmore collaborates with Halcrow (Leeds, Chem. Sci. 2015) and Meijer (Sheffield, Chem
 Comm 2016). In the area of TM complexes Elliott collaborates with Weinstein (Sheffield, Inorg.
 Chem. 2018) and Gibson (Newcastle, Dalton Transactions 2017). In computational chemistry
 Molinari collaborates with Symington (Bath, J Phys. Chem. C 2020). Campbell has a long-
 standing collaboration with the AB Vista company (O’Neill, Food Chemistry 2020).

 Within UoA8 and the School more broadly, our research strategy is designed to promote
 interdisciplinary research and collaboration and this will continue to be a key component of our
 strategic approach in the next REF cycle. We recognise that in order to obtain research income
 and generate research with impact, teams of researchers with different expertise need to be
 assembled to form ‘wolf packs’ as opposed to ‘lone wolf’ operations. Our research centres will
 continue to drive this change in our research culture to develop and support interdisciplinary
 collaboration.

 Contribution to the research base, economy and society:
 Staff within this UoA are committed to the dissemination and promotion of their research to the
 wider scientific community through such activities as the delivery of invited lectures at international
 and national conferences (including organisation thereof), peer reviewing for journals and grant
 awarding bodies. Illustrative examples are given below:
                                                                                                        2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Editorial positions: Staff have undertaken Guest Editorships of special issues including Inorganics
 (Elliott), Environments, Resources (Dimakis) and Molecules (Morris). Editorial Board
 memberships include: Carbohydrate Research (Laws), Bioresearch Communications, PLOS One
 (Du), Food Hydrocolloids, Food Biophysics, European Biophysics Journal, Molecules (Morris),
 Journal of Cereal Science, Food and Bioproducts Processing, Foods (Campbell), Arkivoc
 (Hemming), The Scientific World Journal (Moran) and Chemistry (Rice). Editorships are held for
 Journal of Chemical Research (Gabbutt), RSC Specialist Periodical Reports: Organometallic
 Chemistry (Patmore, Elliott). Heron, Editor-in-Chief of Dyes & Pigments, has overseen the
 direction of the journal through selection of editors/editorial board members over the last 13 years
 which has returned a steady increase in impact factor to 4.61 (2020).

 Plenaries and invited lectures: External recognition of our work is evident in the growing number
 of invitations to speak at national and international events. During the current REF period there
 have been 3 plenary / keynote lectures, 32 invited lectures at international conferences and 25
 invited lectures at national meetings.

 Committee membership & grant reviewing: Several staff serve on learned/national society
 committees, including: (i) The Royal Society, with membership of the International Exchanges
 Committee/Panel (Wedge & Patmore), the Commonwealth Science Conference Committee
 (Patmore) and the International Exchange panel (Patmore); (ii) The Royal Society of Chemistry
 with vice-chair and chair of The Thermal Methods Group (Parkes) and membership of the same
 (Harding), the Supramolecular Chemistry Award committee (Rice), the Carbohydrate Group 2012
 – 2019 (Morris), Accreditation and Validation of degrees (Hemming) and North-East Region
 Steering committee (Moran) and local sections (Moran (former chair) & Molinari); (iii) the Society
 of the Chemical Industry [Young Chemists’ Panel 2013-2017 (Moran)]; (iv) British Mass
 Spectrometry Society National Executive Committee 2019-202 (Harding); (vi) International
 Society on Heterocyclic Chemistry Nomination Awards Committees (Hemming). Additional
 committee memberships include: International Evaluation Committee for the ERA-NET Cofund
 ICT-AGRI-FOOD call (Campbell) and committee member of HEC Materials Chemistry
 Consortium (Molinari).

 Staff make an important contribution to grant reviewing for national RCUK (EPSRC, BBSRC,
 MRC) and charitable organisations (Guy’s and St Thomas’ Hospital Trust, Royal Society) and
 international [NWO Domain Science (Netherlands), French National Research Agency, American
 Chemical Society Petroleum Research Fund, Hungarian Research Council, Swiss National
 Science Foundation, National Science Centre (Poland), Innovation Technology Commission
 (Hong Kong), Ministry of Science and Education (Spain)] bodies. Patmore is a member of the
 Royal Society’s Research Grants Board (physical sciences) 2019 – present and Moran and Gillie
 are full members of the EPSRC Peer Review College. Heron was an EU Expert Evaluator (2018)
 for the Marie Skłodowska-Curie Individual Fellowships.

 Conference organisation: Campbell organised the Innovations in Aerated Food Processing for
 Sustainability, Health and Life meeting/workshop (Chipping Campden, UK) and Morris co-found
 and organises the Biennial UK Hydrocolloids Symposium series. The 1st International Symposium
 on Dyes & Pigments (Seville 2019) was organised and chaired by Heron. Staff contributions were
 noted to both national and international organising scientific committees (23) for established
 symposia; Wedge serves as committee member and webmaster for the RSC ESR group
 responsible for organising the largest European conference dedicated to ESR spectroscopy. Du
 served on the organising committee for 23rd and 25th Annual Conferences: Sustainable Energy
 and Manufacturing the Future SCI's Chinese UK Regional Group.




                                                                                                    2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Public engagement: The Schools of Applied Sciences have run a public lecture series throughout
 the current REF cycle and in 2019. It is currently being run as a partnership between the two
 Schools with the aim of communicating research conducted primarily at Huddersfield (with some
 guest external speakers) to the general public. This successful program of seminars has been
 running for many years and remains popular with the public. In addition, staff have presented their
 research at Café Scientific and Pint of Science events. The School also participated in the
 University’s 2016 and 2017 European Researchers Night events (funded by the European
 Commission under the Marie Skłodowska-Curie actions) with over 3,000 visitors of all ages
 exploring research at the University. The School also has a bespoke outreach programme, which
 contains a portfolio of scientific activities aimed at local schools, which enables 15-18 year-old
 pupils to experience laboratory work and has in the last two years involved over 30 schools. Our
 role in the local education community has been enhanced from 2019/20 by our recently completed
 laboratory block which houses a dedicated and bespoke schools liaison facility/outreach
 laboratory. This is used to house a series of GCSE and A-level practical sessions given to
 schools/colleges to support their chemistry provision and as recognition that laboratory sessions
 form a fundamental part of the scientific training.

 Economy and society: Throughout this document and in our suite of impact case studies,
 reference is made to our contributions to the economy and society. Notable examples include
 the work of Heron and Gabbutt (Essilor), Hopwood (Yorkshire Water) and Campbell (AB
 Vista). In addition, IPOS was the only section of the University to remain open throughout the
 Covid pandemic to conduct essential analysis of pharmaceutical products for local industrial
 partners.




                                                                                                   2
