Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: The Open University


 Unit of Assessment: B9


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview
 The Open University’s (OU) Unit of Assessment (UOA) B9 covers five disciplines: Astronomy,
 Physics, Physics Education Research, Planetary & Space Sciences, and Space Instrumentation.

 During the REF 2014-2020 period, the Unit has been at the forefront of Space Science and
 Exploration. UOA B9 researchers have designed and/or built instruments that have returned
 ground-breaking measurements from the surface of a comet (European Space Agency (ESA),
 Rosetta) and from orbit around Mars (ESA Trace Gas Orbiter). Unit staff have determined the
 physical structure of the Near Earth asteroid Bennu (NASA OSIRIS-REx), revealed the ‘wet’
 nature of the previously considered ‘dry’ interior of the Moon, and through the Dispersed Matter
 Planet Project, pioneered new techniques to discover hot rocky exoplanets. The unit hosts the
 Centre for Electronic Imaging (CEI), a long-term commercial partnership with Teledyne e2v, and
 developed and built detectors for space missions including the ESA flagship mission JUICE. The
 Unit’s space instrumentation expertise has led to innovative solutions for problems beyond
 space-research, in areas as diverse as monitoring air quality on submarines and ensuring the
 provenance of Scotch Whisky.

 The UOA B9 research and impact strategy aims are:
    • to undertake excellent science and enhance the Unit’s international research leadership
       (Section 1.3.1)
    • to ensure the Unit’s research is sustainable (Section 1.3.2)
    • to inform and influence relevant research communities and wider society (Section 1.3.3)
    • to have a positive impact on society (Section 1.3.4)

 The UOA comprises 42 (41.8 FTE) Category-A staff (CAS; CAS names underlined throughout),
 25 grant- or project-supported Post-Doctoral Research Associates or Research Fellows (RAs),
 21 research-related staff (Project Officers; PO), 64 Postgraduate Research Students (PGRS)
 and 11 technical-support staff.

 1.2. Context and Structure

 In REF2014, research in Space and Physical Sciences was a central element of the OU’s
 submission to UOA B7 (Earth and Environmental Sciences) that included the majority of the
 OU’s Centre for Earth, Planetary, Space and Astronomical Research (CEPSAR) research. Since
 then, University-level restructuring established the School of Physical Sciences (SPS, led by
 Jordan) and the School of Environment, Earth and Ecosystems Sciences (EEES) as two of six
 Schools in the Faculty of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM).

 This restructuring consolidated Space and Physical Sciences research into SPS, enabling a
 submission to UOA B9. SPS is home to 40 of the 42 CAS submitted in this return; the two others
 work in EEES and the School of Life Health and Chemical Sciences (LHCS), also within the
 STEM Faculty. The Unit’s research is often interdisciplinary, e.g., six UOA B9 CAS are affiliated
 to the cross-disciplinary Astrobiology Research Centre (AstrobiologyOU), formally based in
 EEES (UOA B7).

 Alongside the restructuring, in 2015 the OU invested GBP 7M to form key Strategic Research
 Areas (SRA) to selectively promote and develop internationally leading research areas. The


                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Space SRA is closely aligned to UOA B9 research and included an enhanced focus on impact
 and knowledge exchange activities (see Section 1.3.1).




 Figure 1. Organisation of research within the UOA B9 and relationship to STEM Faculty
 structures.

 The Research Disciplines within the Unit are described below, with their organisation within SPS
 and relationship with STEM shown in Figure 1. The interdisciplinary nature of UOA B9 research
 means that many staff are members of more than one discipline:

    •   Astronomy (11 CAS led by Haswell). Research areas include exoplanets, stellar
        astrophysics, extragalactic astronomy, astrochemistry and astromaterials.
    •   Physics (11 CAS led by Gorfinkiel). Research areas include molecular, plasma, surface
        and condensed matter physics, quantum technologies and biophysics.
    •   Physics Education Research (PER; 5 CAS led by Hedgeland). Research areas include e-
        learning and e-assessment, physics education in an open and distance learning
        environment and equality, diversity and inclusion in physics education.
    •   Planetary and Space Science (PSS; 14 CAS led by Rothery. Research areas include
        cosmochemistry, the structure and origin of planets and small bodies, and planetary
        geology, geomorphology and atmospheres.
    •   Space Instrumentation (SI; 10 CAS led by Patel). Research areas include developing
        instruments for planetary, astronomical and terrestrial applications, spectroscopic and
        imaging techniques. Includes the Applied Science and Technology Group (ASTG) and
        CEI.

 1.3 Research and Impact Strategy Since REF2014
 The Unit’s research vision and strategy, formally updated biannually, builds on the OU Research
 and Enterprise Plan 2018-2023 that seeks to “inform, inspire and influence”. The overarching
 strategy is to support and build upon areas of internationally excellent, world-leading research,
 creating capability and capacity to exploit new opportunities whilst engaging with industry and
 policy makers to address real world challenges. Part of this has been through the Space SRA,
 created to increase space research capacity around its original core themes of Electronic
 Imaging and Analytical Instrumentation, augmented in 2017 by In Situ Resource Utilisation
 (ISRU) for lunar missions and beyond. How the Unit has met specific strategic aims during this
 REF period is described here; section 1.4 details the Unit strategy for future success.

 1.3.1 Enhancing the Unit’s international recognition for research leadership

 The Unit's REF 2014 strategy included building on research excellence and leadership.
 Successes during the REF period include:



                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Space mission and technology development
 The Unit’s recognised strength in laboratory and spaceflight instrumentation enabled staff to take
 on leadership roles on missions and instruments such as Rosetta (Green, Snodgrass, Wright),
 including the first measurements of organics on a comet’s surface
 (https://doi.org/10.1093/mnras/stx2741, https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aab0673,
 https://doi.org/10.1098/rsta.2015.0385); OSIRIS-Rex, including Rozitis’s role in ground-breaking
 close-up studies of the rubble-pile asteroid Bennu (e.g. https://doi.org/10.1038/nature13632,
 https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aay3544); and GAIA, Holland and Hall having key roles in the
 development of the detectors for the telescope. Unit leadership in upcoming missions include
 BepiColombo (Rothery), Hera (Green), and Euclid (Holland, Hall). Work on lunar ISRU and
 sample return missions (Anand, Sheridan, Barber), builds on new discoveries about water on the
 Moon led from within the Unit (https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms11684).

 Mars Exploration
 Unit staff have leadership roles in Mars missions, including Co-PI of the ExoMars Trace Gas
 Orbiter (TGO) NOMAD spectrometer (Patel) that resulted in outputs quantifying Methane
 abundance and describing the first observation of martian Oxygen dayglow emission.
 Leadership in forthcoming missions includes Co-PI of the ExoMars 2022 Lander ‘HABIT’
 instrument (Lewis), Deputy PI of the ExoMars Rover PanCam (Balme) and ExoMars Rover
 instrument Co-I roles (Patel, Schwenzer). UOA members also have leadership roles in
 preparations for Mars (Grady) and Phobos (Patel, Franchi, Eden) sample return.

 Astrophysics
 UOA B9 staff hold leadership roles in international astrophysics projects. The Dispersed Matter
 Planet Project (led by Haswell) has developed new ways to study ExoPlanets and reveals the
 incredible diversity of Planetary systems (https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-018-0677-y,
 https://doi.org/10.1038/s41550-019-0973-y). This evidence of the Unit’s strength has facilitated
 new leadership roles in preparation for the ESA Ariel mission (Haswell, Barstow). Other
 forthcoming astrophysics missions with prominent UOA B9 roles include Athena (Croston),
 Plato2.0 (Kolb; Haswell), James Webb Space Telescope (JWST; Fraser), and Euclid (Serjeant).
 Closer to home, Unit staff (Fraser) reported the first detection and quantification of phosphene
 on Venus, with implications for the presence of life there.

 Unit researchers authored over 1300 outputs in this REF period, with highlights from across the
 UOA including the demonstration that simple models of quantum matter can break expected
 notions of how matter relaxes to equilibrium, and how gender-bias in Physics attainment is
 strongly related to how assessments are written.

 1.3.2. Ensuring the Unit’s research is sustainable

 The Unit ensures its research is sustainable in two main ways:

 Fostering a dynamic research environment by strengthening the PGRS cohort
 The number of funded PhD positions starting per year in the UOA increased from typically
 around 13 at the start of this REF period to 16 in the current academic year. The UK Research
 and Innovation (UKRI) Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC) quota award to the
 Unit funded approximately five students each year, complemented by 1 or 2 STFC Cooperative
 Awards in Science & Technology (CASE) annually. The STEM Faculty and Space SRA offer
 match-funding to support staff bidding for new PhD funding, which can be particularly helpful for
 smaller partners and/or funding schemes that do not cover all expenses. During this REF period
 additional funding sources have included ESA, STFC ISIS, Engineering and Physical Sciences
 Research Council (EPSRC; from 2021), STFC DISCNet (Centre for Doctoral Training in Data-
 Intensive Science, with Sussex, Queen Mary, Southampton and Portsmouth) and the Ogden
 Trust.




                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Diversifying and strengthening external income
 Since 2014, internal investment through the Space SRA has played a significant role in enabling
 the Unit to diversify its income and enhance its research sustainability. The Space SRA has
 provided direct or indirect support for new projects led or co-led almost exclusively by UOA B9
 staff totalling more than GBP 40M. This investment has increased UOA B9 research capability
 and enhanced its international standing, helping the Unit to bid successfully for large
 international space project funds. Examples of this success include:

 (1) ESA funding (Figure 2) increased from approximately GBP 400k in 2013/14 to over GBP
 900k in 2019/20. Barber led the evolution from the Ptolemy instrument, designed to measure
 cometary volatiles on the ESA Rosetta mission, to the more capable ‘PROSPA’ instrument at the
 heart of the ESA ‘PROSPECT’ lunar mission payload (launch in 2025). ESA have provided GBP
 11M in funding for the project, plus a further GBP 1M to provide an Exosphere Mass
 Spectrometer (EMS) to the NASA ‘PITMS’ instrument to launch in 2021.Technology
 developments from the Ptolemy instrument continue, with Sheridan leading work for the GBP
 770k EU Horizon 2020-funded ‘LUVMI’ rover study to explore permanently shadowed regions of
 the Moon.

 (2) UK Space Agency (UKSA) funding (Figure 2) has increased dramatically from approximately
 GBP 200k in 2014/15 to GBP 1.6M in 2019/20. CEI has secured approximately GBP 5.1M for
 the provision and characterisation of detectors for space missions from UKSA alone. Patel’s
 success in the leadership of the UV-visible spectrometer of the NOMAD instrument onboard
 TGO has secured over GBP 3M of funding from UKSA for delivery, operation and data
 exploitation.




 Figure 2. Research external income outturn/FY from European (left) and UK (right) Space Agencies


 As in the OU’s REF2014 B7 submission, developing interdisciplinarity remains a core element of
 the research strategy and provides funding opportunities from both new and existing funders.
 The largest success to date is the pan-Faculty AstrobiologyOU Centre, set up with an GBP 6.8M
 Research England Expanding Excellence in England (E3) award (UOA B9 Co-Is Morgan, Patel,
 Pearson, Schwenzer plus affiliated members Balme and Sheridan). Meanwhile, Patel and
 Pearson’s GBP 300k ESA contract fuses social and legal expertise from OU’s Faculties of Arts
 and Social Sciences and Law and Business with Unit-based space research to understand
 space exploration’s socioeconomic benefits. ISRU science and technology combines
 engineering expertise from the School of Engineering and Innovation and UOA B9 analytical
 science (recently awarded GBP 230k in ESA/UKSA contracts; Anand, Barber).

 1.3.3. Influencing research communities and wider society

 Staff in the Unit provide extensive leadership within and beyond their immediate research
 communities through work on panels, committees and other bodies (see Section 4.5 for
 highlights). The Unit’s Outreach and Public Engagement (OPE) strategy seeks to maximise
 research impact by promoting physics to schools and the general public. It includes professional
 development for teachers and encouraging more young people to pursue Physics at university
 level, particularly those from underrepresented groups and disadvantaged backgrounds. These
 goals align with the OU’s core mission of social justice and widening participation. Several


                                                                                                    Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 external funding awards to the unit, and two part-time OPE officers, support this activity, which
 focuses on two areas:

 Developing the unit’s engagement capacity and skills
 Internal funding supports one OPE officer (Starkey) who works with staff and PGRS to organise
 events and capture impact evidence, and to deliver training to Unit members. The Unit mentors
 Early Career Researchers (ECRs) to strengthen their skills to exploit OPE opportunities. Its
 leadership staff are also regularly selected and funded for engagement and communications
 activities. For example, the EUR 2M Horizon 2020 EuroCARES project to develop a roadmap for
 a European Sample Curation Facility selected Grady to lead its communications work package
 (WP), awarding funding of GBP 137k to UOA B9. Similarly, Serjeant is communications and
 citizen science WP lead on the EUR 16M (OU funding GBP 583k) Horizon2020 ESCAPE project
 to build the European Open Science Cloud for astronomy- and accelerator-based particle
 physics. Serjeant also led the citizen science WP of the EUR 15M ASTERICS H2020 project
 (GBP 275k to OU). Among other successful elements of this project, the Muon Hunter
 experiment engaged approximately 8000 volunteers worldwide. Throughout the REF period Unit
 researchers received a further GBP 184k for smaller OPE activities.

 Engaging schools and the general public
 The Ogden Trust (GBP 65k; PI Bergamini) funds OPE officer Dunford who supports Unit
 engagement with schools to enhance teachers’ knowledge. These activities include delivering
 specialist teacher training and online resources for trainees across England and Continuing
 Professional Development for secondary school teachers in Wales. They also deliver events in
 schools such as School Physicist of the Year competition for pupils across the UK and
 workshops on ‘shattering stereotypes’ and increasing diversity in STEM subjects.

 The Unit’s research has been presented at The Royal Society Summer Science Exhibition in five
 of the past seven years, covering topics such as comets, asteroids, Mars and the Moon. UOA
 B9 staff exhibit at major events such as the UK Space Conference, the Farnborough Air Show
 and Edinburgh and Northern Ireland Science Festivals with audiences of up to tens of
 thousands. The Unit’s lunar research showcase marking the 50th anniversary of the Apollo 11
 mission achieved audience exposure of approximately 20M (approximately 11M through TV and
 radio interviews and 9M from online news feeds, events and articles) and more than 35,000
 people have experienced the UOA B9 annual Moon Night Events since 2015. Grady and
 Rothery wrote more than 100 articles for The Conversation during the REF period that have
 attracted more than 5 million reads.

 1.3.4. Having a positive impact on society

 Training and supporting of researchers
 In recognition of the growing importance of impact during this REF period, the Unit appointed an
 0.2 FTE Enterprise and Knowledge Exchange (EKE) Lead (Morgan) in SPS. Working with the
 Faculty Research, Enterprise and Scholarship (RES) Office, they support and mentor UOA
 members on topics including consultancy, contract research, sponsored PhD Studentships,
 strategic partnerships and intellectual property licensing. The EKE lead has been instrumental in
 establishing a new community to help support and share best practice throughout the university.
 This community approach was pivotal in securing funding (Sheridan; GBP 307k) from STFC for
 a Knowledge Exchange Fellow to exploit the OU’s miniaturised valve patent.

 Building external partnerships
 The Unit actively encourages staff to build relationships with external partners for impact
 activities. Recognising that this process takes time, sometimes several years, it also offers staff
 support with workload allocation where required.

 CEI researchers have held a strategic collaboration agreement with US technology
 conglomerate Teledyne e2v (Te2v) for the past 15 years to work in the field of imaging
 detectors. Reviewed every five years, most recently in 2018, the unique partnership enabled

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff to develop new projects and funding opportunities and is a robust pathway to impact. It has
 allowed the CEI to undertake leading detector research, leveraging the company’s involvement
 in many high-profile space missions and in turn contributing to the company's growth. The
 collaboration helped Te2v recently secure approximately GBP 20M in contracts for CCD
 manufacture, supporting a significant proportion of the jobs at their plant in Chelmsford. The
 manufacture and export of CCDs was worth over GBP 10M from ESA and NASA. CEI have
 trained 100 employees from Te2v, ESA ESTEC and Airbus.

 Holland and Morgan are Co-Is on the highly successful GBP 4.7M CCF (Connecting Capability
 Fund) SPRINT (SPace Research & Innovation Network for Technology) programme. Since
 2018, the programme has supported 12 projects with 11 different companies including nine led
 by Unit staff (creating research activity worth GBP 861k; GBP 503k awarded to OU).
 Applications include Earth Observation, optimisation of gas tank manufacture processes, stress
 analysis for aerospace propulsion systems, valves for satellite propulsion, and new food and
 drink technology development. Serjeant and Morgan are Co-Is on the GBP 1.2M STFC Food
 Network2.0. They have facilitated or received funding for 13 pilot-projects ranging from chicken
 welfare to food quality monitoring.

 Evidencing impact
 The Unit’s four Impact Case Studies (ICS) highlight outcomes generated through close
 relationships between researchers and industrial or policy-making partners:

 ICS 1 and 2 illustrate the impact of our research on the miniaturisation of analytical
 instrumentation. This work developed an award-winning air monitoring system for use on all
 future UK submarines to break a US company’s 30-year monopoly to supply the NATO fleet,
 generated 13 new jobs and a GBP 13.7M orders for a UK SME. An offshoot of the research led
 to partnership with the Scotch Whisky Research Institute (SWRI) and IBM Research UK to
 develop a method to automatically detect fake and adulterated Scotch Whisky, protecting brands
 that contribute significantly to the UK economy.

 ICS 3 describes how the CEI/Te2v research on radiation damage effects in image sensors has
 enabled several ESA missions (Juice, Euclid, SMILE). It also demonstrates how this work
 helped the company secure contracts to manufacture Charge Coupled Devices (CCDs) and
 Complimentary Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor (CMOS) image sensors.

 ICS 4 describes the Unit’s research leadership in lunar science, how it has built a new realisation
 that there is extensive water on the moon, and its role in developing ESA’s multi-billion Euro
 European Exploration Envelope Programme. The ICS explores the significant economic impact
 that the Unit’s development of novel technologies for in situ analysis and processing of lunar
 samples has had.

 Research Open Access:
 The UOA is committed to OU’s Open Access (OA) policy (see Institutional Environment
 statement, IES). Since 2014 approximately 85% of the Unit’s approximately 1,300 published
 books, chapters and journal articles meet gold or green OA standards. All staff and PGRS
 receive regular training and reminders about data publication requirements, using Open
 Research Online (ORO), the corresponding Data repository (ORDO), and the UKRI OA block
 grant. Where the block grant cannot be used, the Unit has funded gold standard OA costs.

 1.4 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact from REF 2021 onwards
 Through the current REF period, the unit has continued to develop successfully across multiple
 fronts, so much of the strategy through the next REF and beyond extends the existing strategy,
 although with several new areas and opportunities identified. The key aspects are:




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.4.1 Build recognised excellence in research

 Building on existing expertise and leadership (see Section 4.5 for examples) Unit staff will:
    •   Propose, lead and deliver forthcoming and new international ground- and space-based
        science and exploration projects. UOA staff will take leadership in key contributions to the
        science that drives the projects, in decision-making, data exploitation and high-quality
        outputs.
    •   Capitalise on the Unit’s excellent analytical facilities to gain access to unique material
        returned by recent and forthcoming missions to asteroids (Hayabusa2, OSIRIS-Rex) and
        the Moon (Cheng’e 5) and prepare for future sample return missions to Phobos (Martian
        Moon eXploration, MMX) and Mars (MSR) through continued development of analytical
        and simulation facilities.
    •   Use the expanded UKSA National Space Innovation Programme to bid for involvement in
        payload development and science definition for space missions, including India’s
        Shukrayaan-1 Venus mission and Mangalayaan-2 Mars mission. Staff will exploit current
        ESA- and UKSA-funded activity in lunar ISRU to make significant future contributions to
        this emerging field.
    •   Exploit new developments in telescope instrumentation to develop data science and AI or
        machine learning technologies for data exploitation, in readiness for analysis of the much
        larger and more complex datasets to come from the next generation of instruments
        (including WFIRST/Roman, LSST, SKA, Euclid).
    •   Use the Unit’s capabilities in quantum mechanics experimentation, modelling and
        analysis to exploit the effects and techniques of quantum mechanics for applications with
        societal and economic impact. This includes Quantum machine learning, new methods to
        probe and control molecules for use in radiotherapy, and to investigate the molecular
        origins of life.
    •   Expand Physics Education Research, focussing on remote and virtual experimentation,
        interactive online assessment and equality, diversity and inclusion in physics education.

 1.4.2 Enhance and expand research impact with commercial partners

 Utilise the Unit’s strong cohort of industry-facing expertise to develop existing partnerships and
 forge new industrial collaborations, and through this develop stronger synergy between our
 research activities and commercial impact. The extension of the OU-Te2v funding and
 collaboration agreement and the OU’s commitment to continue Space SRA investment to at
 least July 2022 ensures a major pillar of the Unit’s engagement programme is secure and
 provides a springboard for these activities. Fresh OU investment in a dedicated business
 development officer will support exploration of potential commercial opportunities in the
 microgravity environment emerging through new UK launch facilities.

 1.4.3 Expand the reach and significance of public engagement

 The Unit will work with local and national communities and networks such as the South East
 Physics Network (SEPNet) to identify OPE areas to focus resources and then deliver actions
 and pilot programmes. It will also expand engagement by exploiting existing links with BBC and
 other leading media outlets.

 1.4.4 Staff recruitment and career development

 Recruiting the next generation of research leaders and developing existing staff are the most
 important tools to meet our overarching research goals (see section 2.1.2). Attracting more
 externally funded Research Fellows is a cornerstone of this approach and has already seen
 success (e.g. two new UKSA-funded Research Fellows starting April 2021, and STFC Ernest
 Rutherford Fellow (ERF) Barstow). Maintaining demonstrable leadership in key research and

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 enhancing lab-based facilities will facilitate further recruitment, and in turn increase income and
 ensure sustainability in staff and infrastructure.

 A key goal for existing staff is improving quality of research time. For example, to reduce
 academic workload fragmentation the Unit has focused staff teaching effort to create larger
 blocks of time on fewer modules (30% fewer modules per staff member since 2017) and will
 continue to improve the quality of research time available. More targeted training and mentoring
 is planned to better meet the needs of research-active staff and ECRs.

 We remain committed to training the next generation of researchers through continued
 expansion of our externally funded PGRS programme.

 1.5. Research and impact strategy challenges and opportunities from 31st July 2020 onwards
 COVID-19 and Brexit could impact funding from UKRI and other providers, although
 confirmation of UK association to Horizon Europe ensures Unit B9 researchers can maintain
 significant roles in pan-European projects. Most of the Unit’s research is linked to major
 programmes, primarily space exploration or large astronomy facilities which, as indicators of
 ‘National Esteem’, should be well-supported to completion in the next REF period. Underwritten
 by multiple projects with diverse funders, the Unit is therefore well-positioned to retain core
 expertise and continue varied research, even in unfavourable national funding environments.

 As a post-Brexit and post-COVID 19 world continues to adjust to a reliance on virtual presences,
 the OU’s expertise in distance learning places it in a strong position. The Unit’s decision to
 formalise PER research as a standalone research discipline appears prescient: the future holds
 rich scope for research into how best to engage, retain and challenge new demographics in
 online learning, and provide “hands-on” teaching online.


 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 2.1.1 Staffing Strategy

 The UOA B9 staffing strategy is built upon a welcoming and collegial working environment and
 research culture that has Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) at its heart. The Unit aims to
 ensure sustainability through succession planning, while exploiting opportunities to expand into
 new avenues, starting from strong established research themes.

 Of the 42 Unit CAS, 37 held permanent contracts at census date and five were fixed-term (FT);
 three of the FT academics have since become permanent. CAS include 12 professors, 16 senior
 lecturers/research fellows and 14 lecturers/research fellows. The CAS mean age is about 45
 years, with more than 60% under 50, giving a healthy balance between early-, mid- and senior
 researchers. Nearly 30% of Unit staff identify as female (compared to <13% in the OU Physics
 and Space contribution to the B7 UOA in REF2014) and ~ 19% meet the ECR definition. More
 than 10% are non-UK nationals. Two staff tutors (teaching-focused academic roles) and five FT
 researchers meet the Code of Practice (CoP) thresholds for research independence and are part
 of our submission. The diversity of the Unit’s staff is a strength that reflects its commitment to
 EDI.

 The positive research environment is demonstrated by the low academic staff turnover during
 this REF period: since 2014, three senior research-active academic staff have retired and two
 have moved to other institutions. The Unit appointed one FT and eight permanent academic staff
 and converted six research or research-related posts to permanent research contracts within this
 REF period. Of these 15 appointments, five are ECR and six (40%) female.




                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Academic staff:
 Croston was appointed as a Lecturer (now Senior Lecturer) in extragalactic astronomy. Dawes’
 Daphne Jackson Fellowship allowed her to return to astromaterials research following a career
 break; she won a Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowship and was then appointed to a
 Lectureship. Hall moved from a five-year industry/OU fellowship sponsored by Te2v to a
 permanent Lectureship in solid-state sensor research. Hedgeland was appointed as a Senior
 Lecturer staff tutor; she leads the Physics Education Research discipline and maintains a high
 research profile in surface science. James was appointed as Lecturer in theoretical condensed
 matter physics, King as a Lecturer in Cosmochemistry and Nixon as a molecular physics
 Lecturer in LHCS, strengthening research links between SPS and LHCS. McDonald was
 appointed to an 0.8 FTE FT Lectureship in galactic stellar astronomy, and Research Investment
 Fellow Schwenzer became a Lecturer (now Senior Lecturer) in Mars geology, cosmochemistry
 and astrobiology.

 Research Staff:
 Barstow was appointed as an STFC ERF researching Exoplanets; she will transition to a
 permanent Lectureship in 2024. Research-related Project Officers Barber, Morgan and Sheridan
 and FT researchers Dryer and Stefanov became permanent Research or Senior Research
 Fellows in this REF period. This investment has created roles with greater independence and
 flexibility and fostered new enterprise activity: the impact cases arising from the Unit’s research
 are testament to the success of that strategy. The confirmation of three further permanent
 research positions (Morse, Soman, Skottfelt) was delayed by the Covid-19 pandemic and
 confirmed just after the census date.

 The recruitment and support of externally funded, prestigious Research Fellowships was
 identified as a mechanism to enhance research capacity within the UOA and supporting
 Fellowship applications in a Unit priority. All new Fellowship applications are mentored by senior
 academic staff during development and undergo internal peer review before submission. The
 success of this approach is shown by the cohort of successful Fellows during this REF period: a
 Daphne Jackson Fellowship (Dawes), a Royal Astronomical Society Fellowship (Rozitis), a
 Royal Society University Research Fellowship (Ioppolo), two STFC Ernest Rutherford Fellows
 (Barstow, Snodgrass), two Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellows (Cernok and Raack) and five Te2v
 (industry-sponsored) fellowships (Hall, Bush, Skottfelt, Murray, Greig).

 Of the three internally-funded FT Research Investment Fellows from REF2014, Schwenzer is
 now a Senior Lecturer whilst Bernard-Salas has a research position in ACRI-ST, France, and
 Wake a lectureship at University of North Carolina Asheville, USA. In addition, Space SRA
 investment created four full-time fixed-term fellowships to enhance space-research capacity
 (Skottfelt, Lim, Barrett and Morse). Morse transitioned from a PO position, to which he returned
 before the census date, but both he and Skottfelt were appointed as permanent researchers in
 August 2020.

 2.1.2 Staff Development

 Recruitment and induction
 In addition to formal OU-level induction processes, all new Unit staff and students meet the
 Head of School during induction and receive information about support routes, School values,
 EDI and training. New staff are assigned a mentor; current staff are offered mentoring
 opportunities annually, and mentors can be sought from outside the research area if desired.

 ECR development
 The development of ECRs is a vital part of the Unit’s research strategy. The OU is a signatory to
 the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and the Unit actively works to
 implement its seven principles. One example is reduced teaching allocation given for lecturers in
 their first year, with a gradual ramp-up over five years. ECRs are mentored by senior
 academics/researchers as appropriate and provided with workshops covering topics identified by
 ECRs themselves as relevant to their needs: fellowship applications, careers outside academia

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (with external experts) and mentoring and teaching opportunities. Positive feedback has led to
 these workshops being delivered Faculty wide. To develop teaching expertise, an annual call
 allows research-focussed ECRs to participate in OU teaching. Their needs and availability are
 matched to modules through discussion with the Director of Teaching (Kolb). Fixed term ECRs
 are also encouraged to take on co-supervisory roles for PGRS where contracts permit, providing
 important leadership training.

 Workload management and appraisal
 Workload is managed transparently using the OU Academic Workload Management system
 (AWM). Externally funded research time is protected in workload planning, and staff with
 significant external research income are allocated reduced teaching or administrative workload.
 Staff participate in individual annual Career Development and Staff Appraisal (CDSA) meetings
 with their line manager (or alternative, if requested). CDSA allows staff to discuss their
 administrative, teaching and research duties as well as opportunities for development, training,
 mentoring, and engagement with enterprise or scholarship. Workload allocations as a function of
 protected characteristics are monitored by the EDI team to ensure fairness. Academic staff have
 an annual allocation of 25 research days plus 44 days study leave (22 for regional academics) to
 dedicate to research. A policy of “no School meetings and no timetabled teaching duties” on
 Fridays protects blocks of research time.

 Professional development and training
 Staff have allocated AWM time (usually at least 5 days per year) for professional development
 and are encouraged to attend the Faculty-led Academic Professional Development sessions,
 which complement the central provisions by People Services and the Institute of Educational
 Technology. Staff can apply for funding for externally provided training and take OU modules
 free of charge.

 Promotion and merit awards
 Since 2018, all Unit staff are reviewed annually by a School panel to identify, and then contact,
 those close to promotion boundaries. There is also an annual call where staff can put
 themselves forward for promotion. Those developing promotion cases are assigned a mentor
 with Promotions Panel experience. ECRs are actively championed in university-wide reward
 schemes, including the annual Research Excellence Awards, merit awards, discretionary salary-
 scale points and Going the Extra Mile awards.

 2.2 Research students
 The Unit’s PGRS community is the largest in the University, currently with 55 full-time and 9
 part-time PhD students working across all Research Disciplines. The effectiveness of the Unit’s
 supervisory, monitoring and support arrangements is demonstrated by the successful
 completion of 85% of PhDs within 4 years during the REF period.

 2.2.1 PGRS Recruitment

 Recruitment of research students is coordinated across all disciplines to ensure a consistent
 selection process. PhD opportunities are widely advertised online and directly to diverse
 University departments to meet the needs of our interdisciplinary research. Advert wording is
 monitored by the EDI team to ensure consistent communication with potential candidates across
 the protected characteristics spectrum. Since 2016, PGRS recruitment has been by trained and
 mixed-gender panels that includes one Post Graduate Tutor (PGT), one research discipline
 representative, and the School Director of Research or their deputy. Gender statistics are
 tracked throughout the recruitment process and monitored annually. The gender balance across
 PGRS cohorts has been stable over the past five years (35-40% female), significantly higher
 than the Institute of Physics benchmark for Physics (25%) and Astronomy (31%). PhD
 completion rates are also monitored by gender, with no significant differences found across the
 REF period.



                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2.2 PGRS support

 Unit level PhD supervision and support arrangements are designed so that students have
 several sources from which to obtain help and support. Four PGTs support students and
 supervisors, with remits covering support, training, recruitment and funding. In addition to PGTs
 and the supervisory team, each student is allocated a Third-Party Monitor (TPM), an
 experienced researcher not directly part of the student’s project or research group. The
 supervisory team plus TPM are arranged to ensure gender diversity. Two of the PGTs and many
 other members of academic staff have undertaken formal Mental Health First Aid training to
 support both staff and students. PGRS induction provides advice about student support routes,
 including additional support for neurodiverse students and those with disabilities, information
 about School values, the work of the EDI team and training options. PGRS have access to the
 OU Employee Assistance Programme, which provides free support and counselling.

 2.2.3 PGRS training and career development

 Skills and career development is provided by training programmes that benefit from the School’s
 membership in SEPNet, in-house topical training, and the extensive OU Graduate School
 Network training portfolio. Workshops focus advanced physics topics and career development.
 Specialist training in data-intensive methods is available for DISCNet-funded students and a
 further five students working in related areas whom the OU funds as affiliate DISCNet members.
 Our membership of EU COST (Collaboration in Science and Technology) actions and ITNs
 (Innovation Training Networks) has enabled our students to receive specialist training and
 perform research in leading laboratories around Europe.

 As part of the first-year probation process PGRS must complete a skills audit and maintain a
 training log. Project-specific training is identified by the PGRS’ supervisory team and includes
 access to all OU modules. All first-year students attend a programme of weekly lectures,
 including topics such as Linux computing, error analysis and analytical techniques. Presentation
 skills form another key part of the programme, with all students preparing and delivering a short
 talk in the first year (pro-rata for part-time students), a 20 minute ‘journal club’ paper-review talk
 in the second year, and a 30-minute project seminar in their final year.

 The success of our training and career development for PGRS is demonstrated by the first
 destinations of our PhD graduates: of the 89 PhD students who graduated in the REF period,
 81% went on to employment either in academia or R&D/industry, with most of the remainder in
 other relevant employment (e.g., teaching and science communication) or self-employed.

 2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 2.3.1 EDI Overview

 The Unit has a strong commitment to EDI and SPS have held Project Juno Champion and
 Athena Swan Silver since 2016, acknowledging the progress towards gender equality in UOA
 B9. Staff at all levels (including PGRS) sit on the SPS EDI team. Although the external awards
 focus on gender, many initiatives and implementations of good practice developed by the EDI
 team benefit other underrepresented groups (e.g., ensuring diverse representation of staff and
 students in promotional materials, diversity in scientists approached as seminar speakers,
 transparent appointment and promotion processes etc.).

 UOA B9 has implemented Unconscious Bias, Gender Identity Awareness and Active Bystander
 training for all its staff and PGRS, demonstrating the Unit’s desire to establish a work culture
 enabling people from all backgrounds to contribute and thrive. EDI-relevant policies (e.g. on
 professional conduct) are highlighted on the School’s intranet pages. The EDI team has run an
 Annual School Survey since 2015. This allows staff and students to provide anonymous
 feedback to management about all aspects of Unit research culture and environment. The
 mental wellbeing of all staff and students’ is paramount: to provide support and signpost specific


                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 avenues for help with issues, SPS introduced ‘School Listeners’, a concept now being adopted
 in other schools within the faculty.

 Building a more diverse research community (in what has traditionally been a field lacking
 diversity) has been a goal of the staffing strategy. This focused particularly on the recruitment
 process to widen the applicant pool. The EDI team reviews job advert templates and
 applications forms (incl. PGRS) and ensures language usage is suited to all protected
 characteristics. Appointment panels are mixed gender, using staff from outside the unit if
 needed, and all panel members complete the OU’s ‘Recruitment, Selection and Interviewing’
 training. In addition, the Unit actively supports Daphne Jackson Fellowships (for researchers
 returning from a career break) and provides support for staff with caring responsibility.

 29% of our Cat-A staff identify as female, compared with the 2017/2018 Institute of Physics (IoP)
 ‘Physics’ benchmark of 18%, and annual School Survey responses about the work of the EDI
 team are very positive. The Unit is proud of the successes brought about by its EDI strategy but
 recognises that there is still more to do.

 2.3.2 Working practices

 Remote and flexible working is supported wherever possible. School meetings are held within
 core hours (10 am to 4 pm) and have been accessible through phone and/video conferencing for
 several years, enabling all to participate fully, including those that cannot be on campus (e.g.,
 because of caring responsibilities and/or disabilities). Funding is available for external training
 dedicated to EDI related external matters, or to attend conferences and meetings with external
 stakeholders for their work. Returners from parental leave are prioritised for consideration of
 conference funds, including a budget to cover caring costs.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research income and internal investment
 3.1.1 Research income

 UOA B9 attracted GBP 30M direct research income during this REF period, with yearly income
 increasing from GBP 3.8M in 2013 to GBP 4.5M in 2020. Mean per FTE income in this REF
 period is GBP 103k/FTE, increasing from GBP 90k/FTE in 2013/2014 to GBP 107k/FTE in
 2019/2020. The Unit maintained income diversification to reflect changing external landscapes
 with funds sought from a broad portfolio of sources. Income was divided approximately equally
 between UKRI and charities, the UK Space Agency (UKSA) and industries, and EU and
 international funders. UOA B9 also received competitively awarded UKRI-supported facilities
 usage with a value of GBP 12.12M during the REF period, including 6.12M for instrument
 leadership roles on ESA TGO.

 Income highlights
 UOA B9 researchers secured 17 large grants (awarded value > GBP 0.5M) during this REF
 period. Examples include (i) five STFC consolidated/rolling grants for Planetary and Space
 Science and Astronomy worth approximately GBP 9.9M in total; (ii) GBP 1.1M UKSA funding for
 Jupiter icy moon explorer (JUICE) detector development work; (iii) EUR 10M (GBP 1.0M direct
 to OU) European Commission award for Europe-wide collaborative ‘Europlanet 2020’ activities;
 and (iv) Grants totalling GBP 10.7M from ESA for the PROSPA lunar resource project. UOA B9
 researchers also secured 54 medium-value grants (awarded GBP 100k to GBP 499k) during the
 REF period, including eight UKSA Aurora Programme grants totalling GBP 2.8M for mission
 science exploitation. In addition to the PROSPA work, the Unit received 25 ESA awards totalling
 GBP 5.9M for other space mission/science support and instrument development.




                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Income generation strategy
 The five research disciplines produce five-year strategic plans that identify high-priority areas for
 support that feed into the Unit research strategy (sections 1.3, 1.4). SPS and the Space SRA
 provide pump-priming funding for future research and large collaborative and international bid
 development. Staff can also apply for internal funding to attend conferences and workshops to
 support the writing of high-quality funding proposals. This assistance particularly helps ECRs
 and those returning from caring or parental leave to get up to speed with current research in
 their field.

 3.1.2 Organisational infrastructure and research support through significant investment

 UOA B9 researchers benefit from access to centralised facilities within the STEM Faculty.
 Investments in centralised facilities with significance to the Unit during the period include:

     •   GBP 450k in 2016 for a computing cluster and data storage (780Tb). UOA B9
         researchers employ an average 1 million CPU hours per year (approximately 15% of
         total use) to perform calculations not suited to Tier 1 or Tier 2 facilities. A Faculty IT team
         of nine staff support the cluster and other specialised computing needs.
     •   New scanning electron microscope (SEM), Research England funded (GBP 850k;
         installation March 2021), for which B9 researchers constitute the largest user group.
     •   Upgrade (GBP 100k) to a 24” mirror for the PIRATE robotic telescope on Tenerife.

 In addition to staffing and PGRS (see section 1.3.2) the Space SRA has also invested in
 significant equipment purchases (GBP 70-100k per year). This investment, combined with
 approximately GBP 50k per year from SPS, has helped UOA staff win further external funding.
 Examples of SPS/SRA investment in equipment and infrastructure include:

     •   GBP 90k in Data Infrastructure (Unit-dedicated 60 core computing cluster) to analyse the
         effect of radiation on CMOS image sensors for ESA’s JUICE mission.
     •   GBP 100k funding from the Space SRA, OU and STEM Faculty purchased an automated
         thermal desorption unit, a pyrolysis unit and GCxGC modulator for the Applied
         Technology and Science Group’s laboratories. This enabled projects with new
         customers, including many initiated with SPRINT funding.
     •   GBP 28k purchase of a Parr pressure vessel, providing key science outcomes
         underpinning the successful bid for E3 funding that supports the AstrobiologyOU
         interdisciplinary research group, including six UOA B9 researchers.
     •   GBP 50k to develop a microwave heating vacuum vessel for developing construction
         processes for building lunar habitats. UKSA and ESA have awarded two UOA B9
         proposals featuring this system summited during the REF period (total GBP 230k).
     •   GBP 29k for a Van der Graaf velocity unit, instrumental in the OU’s contribution to the
         Athena ESA mission.
     •   GBP 15k for a new Cathode-luminescence detector for the SEM, enabling Anand’s lunar
         volatiles project to secure STFC funding.

 3.2 Unit Infrastructure, facilities and scholarship support
 The STEM Research, Enterprise and Scholarship Team (STEM RES; >15 staff) provide
 professional services to Faculty researchers including UOA B9 staff. It supports the development
 of external bids for funding, and administration and management of funded research projects
 and PhD studentships. STEM RES also facilitates enterprise and partnership development,
 external engagement and scholarship activity. The STEM Impact Manager works with
 colleagues to develop and strengthen impact pathways during bid development. They also
 support the impact pathways progression, communication and implementation for awarded
 projects.




                                                                                                  Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2.1 Unit research support: infrastructure

 Two neighbouring buildings, with laboratory space of 850 m2 and 535 m2 house Unit-specific
 infrastructure. The two buildings include 35 separate areas of labs, clean rooms and technical
 support suites. Unit-dedicated facilities comprise five groupings:

 A. Laboratory Analysis

 Microscopy: (i) Cameca NanoSIMS 50L ion microprobe; (ii) FEI QUANTA focused ion beam-
 SEM, to be replaced 2021 (see 3.1.2); (iii) various petrographic microscopes including a high
 temperature heating stage. UOA B9 researchers also make extensive use of complementary
 shared facilities: (i) Zeiss field emission SEM; (ii) Cameca electron microprobe; (iii) JOEL 200
 keV TEM; (iv) two desktop SEM with full remote access, vital for supporting activities during
 pandemic restrictions.

 Spectroscopy: (i) Horiba LabRam HR Raman microscope; (ii) CRAIC UV-VIS microspectro-
 photometer; and (iii) THZ Desorption Emission Spectrometer.

 Gas Source Mass Spectrometry: (i) Thermo MAT 253 with laser assisted fluorination system for
 high precision oxygen-three isotope measurements; (ii) Thermo MAT 253 with elemental
 analyser and GC-combustion system for organic molecule isotope analysis; (iii) Thermo Delta
 gas bench for carbonate analyses; (iv) FINESSE: a unique, in-house designed, fully automated
 system for simultaneous measurement of carbon, nitrogen and noble gas abundances and
 isotope ratios; (v) MAP 215-50 and Nu Instruments Noblesse with laser heating/ablation
 extraction for Ar-Ar dating and noble gas measurements.

 B. Planetary and Astrophysical Environments Simulation
 Environmental Chambers: (i) large (2m x 1m) chamber to simulate martian surface processes,
 including heating and cooling systems and monitoring apparatus; (ii) three static and two flow-
 through reactors to simulate the P, T, and anoxic/oxic sub-surface environments of Mars and icy
 moons to explore biotic and abiotic processes; (iii) chamber for generating and studying
 amorphous icy particles under astrophysical conditions, including a FTIR system, for use in
 external large-scale experimental facilities (e.g. synchrotron); and (iv) a chamber, deployable on
 parabolic flights, for studying low velocity dust and ice aggregation at low T and P.

 Impact facility: (i) Hypervelocity 2-stage light gas gun, capable of delivering 4mm projectiles up
 to ~6 kms-1 at vertical to horizontal orientations, including high-speed video and monitoring
 apparatus, (ii) 2MV Van de Graaff accelerator delivering micrometeoroid analogue samples to
 targets at tens kms-1 to simulate weathering of atmosphereless bodies and impact damage to
 spacecraft.

 Rover operations simulation facility: A 10m by 6m indoor terrain model to test rover operations
 protocols and operator training. The facility comprises a small instrumented 6-wheel rover, fully
 online controls and planning system software, and a 2m deep drilling pit.

 C. Instrument Development and Operations
 CEI: spans three laboratories and a new cleanroom, built late 2018 (GBP 40k investment from
 Space SRA and UKSA for SMILE). The clean room includes a calibration chamber and soft X-
 ray source. A dedicated area houses long-term "cryogenic irradiation" experiments (UKSA GBP
 30k investment for the Euclid mission).

 Instrument development: seven laboratories support the miniaturised mass spectrometer/gas
 chromatography (Mini-MS/GS) development programmes (e.g. PROSPA, LUVMI, EMS).
 Includes test and build facilities, large cryo-vacuum test chambers, clean room suite for space



                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 flight hardware assembly, clean chemistry laboratory, mechanical and electronic workshop and
 support.

 Applied Science and Technologies: State of the art gas chromatography-mass spectrometry
 (GC-MS) and comprehensive gas chromatography (GCxGC-MS), with various detectors and
 sample collection/introduction modules. Used to develop and validate bespoke solutions to a
 wide variety of societal and commercial challenges from food and drink screening to medical
 diagnostics.

 Mission Operations: NoMAD/CaSSIS instruments (CaSSIS in partnership with Univ. Bern,
 Austria) onboard TGO are operated from a dedicated control area equipped with ten
 workstations and large format display facilities.

 D. Experimental Physics
 Cold atoms laboratory: includes optical systems and lasers for the trapping and excitation of
 atoms for quantum computing and machine learning applications.

 Molecular clusters laboratory: includes (i) resonance-enhanced multi-photon ionization time-of-
 flight mass spectrometry experiment to study molecules and clusters in supersonic beams and
 laser-desorbed targets, (ii) Stark deflection apparatus to manipulate neutral molecules and
 clusters in rotationally-cold molecular beam and (iii) low-energy electron beam mass
 spectrometry experiment to study dissociative electron attachment to molecules and clusters

 Plasma laboratory: Systems and diagnostics for low temperature plasma generation at low and
 atmospheric pressure to study surface engineering of novel photocatalytic materials for energy
 production and water purification. A customised Pre-vac X-ray Photon Spectrometer surface
 analysis tool is currently undergoing a GBP 160k upgrade.

 E. Telescopes
 The unit operates two robotic telescopes (17” and 24” mirrors) on Mount Teide, Tenerife. They
 support work on transients, exoplanets and asteroids, and commercial space situational
 awareness activities with Deimos Space UK.

 3.2.2 Research and scholarly support

 A team of 11 technicians and POs support Faculty facilities and laboratories. Nine additional
 grant-maintained POs provide support primarily for space mission projects. The Unit has a
 collection of >3000 different meteorite and returned samples (Apollo, Stardust, stratospheric dust
 particles) and a polished-sample preparation workshop to support research programmes.

 A weekly research seminar series (mainly external speakers), a journal club for PGRS and
 ECRs, a monthly public lecture series (with the Institute of Physics) and library resources (on-
 site and significant online journal access) further support scholarly activity.

 3.3 Collaborative use of research infrastructure, major facilities and in-kind benefits
 3.3.1 Collaborative use of national and international facilities

 During this REF period UOA B9 researchers have participated in international networks
 including four EU COST actions and five Horizon2020 European Innovation Training Networks
 (E/ITN) in areas of molecular and chemical processes in astrophysical or biological
 environments and nanofabrication.

 Through the Horizon2020 EuroPlanet Network, the Unit has welcomed more than 25 groups of
 European researchers to use its highly specialised facilities, including the NanoSIMS, laser
 fluorination and large Mars simulation chamber. The total of 250 days’ access is equivalent to
 GBP 300k and has helped the Unit develop new analytical methodologies and spawned several

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 new collaborations. Its facilities continue to be a significant feature in EuroPlanet, which is now
 in its third five-year cycle.

 UOA staff successfully competed for access to a wide variety of facilities, including UKRI funded
 (REF4c) and non-UKRI funded facilities (Table 1).

 Internal investment has enabled access to other telescopes. The Unit is a shareholder in the UK
 Southern African Large Telescope (SALT) consortium, (GBP 7k/yr) which gives UOA B9
 researchers access to the largest single optical telescope in the Southern Hemisphere.
 Membership of the James Clerk Maxwell Telescope (JCMT) UK consortium (average GBP 9k/yr)
 ensures access to the world’s leading single-dish sub-mm telescope facility and next generation
 wide-field sub-mm camera, and opportunities to lead JCMT Large Programs. It also enables
 pump-priming for major Atacama Large Millimeter/submillimeter Array (ALMA) projects such as
 the recent Venus phosphine work.

 Table 1. Competitively awarded facilities usage not covered in REF4c. Usage in hours for the
 telescopes, days for the other facilities.

                    Facility                    Hours              Facility               Hours
          Ground-Based Telescopes                         Space-Based Telescopes
     Janksy VLA                                  38.5   NASA Chandra X-ray Obs.              36
     JCMT                                        600    NASA NuSTAR                          33
     Las Cumbras Obs. Global Telescope            28    NASA Swift                          150
     Observatoire de Haute Provence              209    Spitzer Space Telescope              50
     SAAO 1.9m / SpUpNIC                         133    ESA XMM-Newton                      305
     South African Large Telescope                19           Other Facilities            Days
     Submillimetre Array                          22    ISA/ASTRID2/UV1                    71.5
     Telescopio Nazionale Galileo                 19    EuroPlanet Access                    31

 3.3.2 Unit research in-kind benefits

 In-kind equipment loans have directly benefited research and impact activities. For example, in-
 kind contributions from the IBM IROR scheme (6 months staff effort), and equipment loans from
 several companies (equivalent value >GBP 0.5M) led to the development a fully automated
 screening method to detect fake and adulterated Scotch whisky. LECO Instruments (Europe)
 have offered a five-year strategic sponsorship of the ASTG miniaturised mass-spectrometer
 development laboratory (total GBP 120k) to build relationships developed during the SPRINT
 project.

 The infrastructure described here has enabled much of the Unit’s impact generation, including
 that of its four ICS. UOA B9 research on radiation damage effects in image sensors facilitating
 the selection of several space missions (Euclid, SMILE and WFIRST/Roman), and contributed to
 the growth of Te2v’s space imaging business. Laboratory infrastructure and expertise developed
 for cosmochemistry research led to the design of the Ptolemy instrument for the Rosetta
 mission, which underpins ASTG’s work across diverse applications, as well as influencing ESA’s
 new lunar exploration strategy and the design of a novel water extraction technique for ISRU on
 the Moon.


 4. Collaboration, impact, engagement, responsiveness to emerging priorities and
 influence

 4.1 Support for networks, partnerships, and joint research projects
 UOA B9 staff engaged with approximately 120 different partners through hundreds of
 collaborative research projects, joint PhD studentships, consultancy and strategic partnerships


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 during this REF period. The Unit’s collaborations reflect its focus on space-related research and
 involve approximately 50 Higher Education Institutes and more than 20 national and
 international research institutes across the UK, Europe, Asia, Australasia and North America.
 These partners include RAL Space, Diamond, and the Natural History Museum in the UK, PSI
 Switzerland, PTB Germany and MBI Germany in Europe, and NIST, the Smithsonian, the
 American Museum of Natural History, and NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Centre, Jet Propulsion
 Laboratory and Johnson Space Centre in the U.S. The Unit works with industrial partners and
 charities, and host visiting researchers for periods from a few days to use its facilities, to months
 for those taking longer sabbaticals.

 Space research is multidisciplinary, involving astronomers, chemists, geologists, physicists,
 engineers, mathematicians and more. A recent example of successful internal interdisciplinary
 research projects internally includes AstrobiologyOU, which received GBP 6.8M in 2019 to
 expand its capability to address fundamental questions about life beyond the Earth. Staff also
 collaborate with the OU School of Engineering and Innovation for plasma physics research and
 its applications, and with the OU Knowledge Media Institute (KMI) in Physics Education
 Research.

 4.1.1 Industrial collaborations

 The Unit collaborates with more than 50 industrial partners including multinational companies
 (e.g. Airbus, Thales, BAE, Te2v), SMEs and start-ups (e.g. XCAM, Quantemol, Applied Science
 & Technology Solutions and Dynamic Imaging Analytics). The OU’s Research and Enterprise
 Unit, and Unit EKE lead (Morgan) support the preparation and negotiation of legal agreements
 including Non-Disclosure, collaboration, consultancy, material transfer, and strategic partnership
 agreements. They also oversee IP management, including patenting, funded by the OU directly.
 Their expertise helps establish and cement industrial collaborations, while Space SRA funding
 pump-primes proof-of-concepts to make these collaborations possible.

 4.1.2 Academic collaborations

 Staff collaborate with academic colleagues across the OU, and at national and international
 institutions. Their research expertise is evidenced by their leadership as PIs and WP leads of
 international consortia, including collaborative H2020 projects such as EuroPlanet (EUR 10M),
 ASTERICS (EUR 15M), and ESCAPE (EUR 16M). Funding from Faculty, School and the Space
 SRA supported new collaborations through travel, conferences and workshops. The Unit offers
 pump-priming funding for large and international projects. It also provides protected dedicated
 workload allocations for research, study leave and external roles such as expert advisory
 committees, BBC consultancies, editorships, learned society and peer review roles. A generous
 matched-funding scheme for PhD studentships facilitates collaborative ventures such as
 DISCnet (see sections 1.3.2, 1.4, 2.2.3).

 4.1.3 Collaborations to develop research impact

 UOA B9 recognises that generating impact from research takes time and hence provides its staff
 with dedicated support (e.g. workload allocations and internal funding) to achieve it. The four
 submitted ICSs represent work selected from a portfolio of impactful research covering the past
 decade. This research has been facilitated by the OU's roles in the STFC Food Network+
 (Technology Champion, Data Science Liaison) and as a partner in the GBP 4.8M SPRINT
 project for SME engagement with space research.

 The current five-year GBP 2.5M CEI/Te2v agreement runs until 2023. Te2v’s former Chief
 Design Engineer David Burt continues to work one day per week at the CEI, providing training
 and supervision to students and researchers. Other senior Te2v staff act as industrial
 supervisors for CEI students and researchers. Te2v staff visit CEI regularly to enhance




                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 knowledge exchange and technical and business expertise transfer. The CEI and Te2v hold at
 least three workshops at the Te2v’s factory in Chelmsford and at the OU each year.

 4.2 Economic impact
 Long-term engagement with industry partners provides UOA B9 researchers with opportunities
 to deploy their research technology to make an economic impact. The unit’s research has
 positively impacted various sectors beyond the work described in the four submitted ICS. In
 Agriculture, Unit staff work with the Plant Health Agency to support enhanced bovine
 tuberculosis detection in badgers and projects with Public Health England improved
 Campylobacter detection in chickens. Work with fragrance and flavour manufacturer Givaudan
 impacted the consumer goods industry by decreasing chemicals levels in washing powders.
 Meanwhile, a collaboration with Innovate UK, TISICS Ltd, EAL Ltd and the University of Surrey
 produced innovation in spacecraft propulsion systems.

 4.3. Engagement with diverse communities
 The OU engages the public through its unique relationship with the BBC to commission and co-
 produce TV and radio programmes. During this REF period, Unit staff shared their research
 through several prime-time BBC series, watched by more than 14.1M people, nearly 40% of
 whom were C2DE demographic. These series included A Perfect Planet (BBC1, 2020, Lewis),
 The Planets (BBC2, 2019, Lewis, Rothery), 8 Days to the Moon and Back (BBC2, 2019, Anand),
 21st Century Race for Space (BBC2, 2017, Morgan), Expedition New Earth (BBC2, 2017,
 Haswell), The Beginning and End of the Universe (BBC4, 2016, Serjeant), and Wild Weather
 with Richard Hammond (2014, BBC1, Lewis). The Unit also produces and distributes associated
 free educational materials to schools and the general public to accompany the programmes.

 Informal learning provides another route for Unit staff to showcase their research and engage
 the public. More than 15,000 students registered for free online OU courses based on UOA B9
 researcher’s work during this REF period.

 4.4. Responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives
 4.4.1 Committee memberships

 UOA B9 research informs and shapes the research policy landscape. Some 65% of the Unit’s
 staff (a third of whom are female) held more than 60 roles on national and international research
 council, space agency or similar committees during this REF period. Examples include:

 International

 COSPAR: Member, Safety Assessment Protocol for Mars Sample Return WG (Grady)
 ESA:      Chair, ESA-NASA iMOST Mars Sample Return Committee (Grady).
           Co-Chair, BepiColombo Mercury Surface & Composition Working Group (Rothery).
           Science Assessment Review Panel for M4 (Haswell).
           Astronomy Working Group of Space Science Advisory Committee (Haswell).
           ExoMars Rover Landing Site Selection Working Group (Balme).
           ExoMars Rover Science Operations Working Group (Balme).
           Hera Mission Science Management Board (Green).
           Voyage-2050 Topical Team (Green).
 ESF:      European Space Science Committee (Anand).
 NASA:     Chair, Origins Grants Review Panel and Laboratory Astrophysics Panel (Fraser).
           Chair, Solar System Exploration Virtual Research Institute, UK node (Anand)
           Programme Review Board, Laboratory astrophysics (Fraser).
           New Frontiers Mission Selection Panel (Grady).
           Solar System Workings Review Group Panel chair (Lewis).



                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 National:

 EPSRC: Cooperative Awards in Science & Technology Panel (Hall).
        Strategic Advisory Panel - Engineering (Fraser).
 STFC:     Chair, Astronomy Advisory Panel (Serjeant).
           Chair, Solar System Advisory Panel (Fraser).
           Astronomy Grants Panel (Barber, Croston, Patel).
           Education Training and Careers Committee (Hall).
           Innovation Partnership Scheme Review Panel (Stefanov).
           Public Engagement Advisory Panel (Pearson).
           Spark Award Panel (Pearson).
 UKSA:     Academic representative (one of two), UKSA CEO briefing meetings (Holland).
           Chair, Working Group for Mars Sample Return (Grady).
           Chair, Space Environments Working Group (Fraser).
           Chair UKSA/Economic and Social Research Council, Social Outcomes of Human
           Spaceflight Review Panel (Fraser).
           Space Environments Advisory Board (Fraser).
           Mars Robotic Exploration Oversight Committee (Balme).
           Science Programme Advisory Committee (Haswell, Holland).
           Space Exploration Advisory Committee (Balme, Patel).

 4.4.2 UK Government advisory roles

           Chair, Space Academic Network (SPAN; Holland). SPAN coordinates and unites the
           UK space research community and has four working groups (including Grady,
           Haswell, Patel and Soman). Hall represents SPAN on the national Space Skills
           Advisory Panel (SSAP). Former Chief Scientist for UKSA, Chris Lee, has
           acknowledged that SPAN influenced increases to the ESA Space Science and UK
           national space science budget.
           Space Growth Partnership Board and Space Sector Council (Holland).
           Expert Advisor, Dept. Health, Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency,
           (Morgan) for development of Target Product Profile for a Rapid Detection Test using
           breath biomarkers found for SARS-CoV-2.

 4.4.3 Roles that shape policy via learned societies

           President, International Astronomical Union, B.5 Laboratory Astrophysics (Fraser)
           President, Astrobiology Society of Britain (Patel).
           President, International Meteoritical Society (Grady).
           Vice President, Royal Astronomical Society (RAS; Norton, Anand).
           Chair, European Assoc. Distance Teaching Univ. Pool of Expert Assessors (Jordan).
           Chair, IoP Atomic and Molecular Interactions group (Gorfinkiel).
           Secretary, Royal Society for Chemistry Spectroscopy and Dynamics Group (Eden).
           RAS elected council members and RAS200 advisory board (Serjeant, Fraser)
           Board Member, European Atomic and Molecular Physics Division, European Physical
           Society (Bergamini).
           Member, RAS Policy Group (Haswell, Serjeant).
           Member, International Union of Pure and Applied Physics C15 Commission
           (Gorfinkiel).




                                                                                       Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.4.4 Unit leadership in Space- and Ground-Based Missions, Projects and Instruments

 Table 2. CAS space mission involvement.

   Past Missions (ended within REF period)
   Mission                 Instrument                    Staff and Role
   ESA Rosetta             Ptolemy                       Wright (PI); Morse (Deputy PI)
                                                         Barber, Sheridan, Morgan (Science
                                                         Team)
                             Grain Impact Analyser and   Green (CoI)
                             Dust Accumulator
                             (GIADA)
   ESA/Roscomos              Entry descent and landing   Lewis (Co-PI), Patel (CoI)
   ExoMars 2016 lander       science (AMELIA)
   Ongoing Missions
   Mission                   Instrument                  Staff and Role
   ESA TGO                   NOMAD                       Patel (Co-PI), Lewis (CoI)
                             DREAMS                      Patel (CoI)
                             Atmospheric Chemistry       Patel (CoI)
                             Suite
                             CaSSIS camera               Patel (CoI)
   NASA Mars                 Mars Climate Sounder        Lewis (CoI)
   Reconnaissance Orbiter
   NASA Mars Science         Mission                     Schwenzer (Science team)
   Laboratory Rover
   NASA Mars InSight         Mission                     Lewis, Patel (Atmospheres WG)
   NASA OSIRIS-Rex           Mission                     Franchi, Rozitis (Science team)
   ESA BepiColombo           Mission                     Rothery (Lead, surface and
                                                         composition WG)
                             MIXS                        Rothery (Geology lead CoI), Anand
                                                         (Co-I)
   Future Missions: 1. Solar System Missions
   Mission/Launch date      Instrument                   Staff and Role
   NASA Artemis             Exospheric Mass              Barber (EMS lead/PI), Morse (EMS
   Peregrine Mission One    Spectrometer (EMS)           Co-I), Sheridan (EMS Co-I)
   2021                     within PITMS instrument      Barber (PITMS Co-I)
   ESA/Roscosmos            PanCam                       Balme (Deputy PI), Patel (Co-I)
   ExoMars Rosalind         WISDOM                       Schwenzer (Co-I)
   Franklin Rover 2022
   ESA/Roscosmos            Entry Descent and            Lewis, (Co-PI)
   ExoMars Kazachok         Landing Science
   Surface Platform 2022    HABIT                        Lewis, (Co-I)
                            MGAP                         Barber (Co-I)
   ESA JUICE 2022           JANUS Camera                 Holland (detector build lead)
                                                         Patel (CoI)
   ESA SMILE 2023            X-Ray Imager                Holland (CoI, CCD detector
                                                         development)
   ESA Hera 2024             Mission                     Green (Science Management
                                                         Board)
   RosCosmos Luna-27         ProSPA instrument           Barber (PI), Morse (CoI), Sheridan
   2025                                                  (Co-Is)
                            PROSPECT                     Anand, Barber (Science team)
   Future Missions: 2. Astronomy Missions
   Mission                  Launch/first light           Staff and Role
   NASA JWST                2021                         Fraser (Lead, Early Release
                                                         Science "Ice-Age" WG1)

                                                                                       Page 20
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       ESA Euclid              2022                             Serjeant (Co-Lead, Primeval
                                                                Universe WG)
                                                                Holland (CoI)
       ESA PLATO                   2025                         Kolb (Lead, Contaminants WG)
                                                                Haswell (Lead, Close-In Exoplanets
                                                                WG)
       ESA Ariel                   2029                         Haswell (Science Advisory Team)
                                                                Barstow (Lead, Spectral Retrievals
                                                                WG)
       ESA Athena                  2031                         Croston (Science Advisory Team)


     4.5 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base
     4.5.1 Awards during this REF period

        •   Braithwaite: IoP Gold Bragg Medal in 2020 for outstanding, long-term contributions to the
            authentic teaching of practical science and leadership of OpenSTEM Labs (remote
            access to practical laboratory education). OpenSTEM Labs won the Guardian
            Universities Award for Academic Excellence, Times Higher Education Leadership and
            Management Award and Times Higher Education Award for Outstanding IT Initiative of
            the Year.
        •   Franchi, Grady, Lewis, Rozitis: NASA Group Achievement Awards
        •   Fraser, Grady and Haswell: three of twenty portraits commissioned of leading women in
            contemporary astronomy celebrating “Women and the Royal Astronomical Society: 100
            years of Fellowship”. No other institution had such representation.
        •   Grady: Coke Medal of the Geological Society of London for Science Communication and
            was appointed as Chancellor of Liverpool Hope University.
        •   Morgan: two BAE Systems Chairman’s awards for Innovation and two LECO Instruments
            team awards (work forms the basis of two Unit ICS).
        •   Rozitis (ECR) had asteroid 11469 named for him to recognise his work on small bodies
        •   Sargeant (a PGRS at the time) was named one of Forbes’ “30 under 30” in 2020.
     4.5.2 Further indicators of influence and recognition

        •   Fourteen staff had leading editorial roles in research journals, including Space Science
            Reviews, Geochemica et Cosmochimica Acta and MDPI Sensors.
        •   All CAS have refereed scientific papers, covering almost 100 different journals and
            including the leading journals in the field.
        •   Unit B9 CAS have refereed research grants from over 30 different funding agencies and
            schemes, of which 30% are international. Examples include UKRI Future Leaders
            Fellowship, STFC and EPSRC Fellowships and Grants, Leverhulme Trust, Royal Society
            URF, UKSA Aurora Fellows and Grants, EU ERC Advanced Investigator and
            Horizon2020 awards.
        •   Unit researchers led and organised over 70 conferences and workshops in their research
            areas, including Royal Society Kavli Discussion meetings.
        •   Delivery of more than 300 invited talks at international conferences and workshops.
        •   UOA B9 ECRs held fellowships from prestigious schemes including Royal Society URF,
            STFC Ernest Rutherford and Innovation Fellowships, RAS Research Fellowship and
            Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship.
1




                                                                                                Page 21
