Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Kingston University

 Unit of Assessment: 32 – Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

a. Unit Context

The Unit is comprised of 70 researchers (47.59 FTE), including 11 Professors and 6 current ECRs.
Since 2014, it has grown to consolidate its areas of strength whilst creating the conditions for
emerging areas of new research. Encompassing a broad range of practice, history and theory
across art, architecture, design, film and photography, the Unit is also characterised by a high level
of knowledge exchange, impact and public engagement through its network of creative and cultural
industry partners. The expansion of Kingston School of Art (KSA, formerly the Faculty of Art,
Design and Architecture), to include literature, philosophy, performance and media/film (following
the incorporation of the School of Arts, Culture and Communication) has encouraged greater
cross-fertilisation of the arts and humanities, investment in the growth of new creative industries
and a lively research culture with corresponding Units (27, 30, 33).

The Unit’s practice-research environment has been enhanced by major refurbishment of the Art
School campus, especially its studios and workshops, in 2019. KSA’s practice-based ethos of
‘Thinking through Making’ informs its material, historical and conceptual research, and is
augmented with interdisciplinary enquiry into areas such as health, well-being, social justice,
environment, pedagogic futures, media and technology. The Unit’s research environment also
benefits from the University’s public cultural assets – the Arts Council England-funded Stanley
Picker Gallery, which supports an innovative curatorial and fellowship programme in contemporary
arts, architecture and design, and Dorich House Museum, the studio museum of sculptor Dora
Gordine, which houses an art collection and archive, acts as host-venue for university research
events, and supports the Unit’s activities in art and design history, heritage and curating. Both
Gallery and Museum provide a focus for the Unit’s disciplinary-focused research centres to
collaborate, through curated events and publications, such as DORA – a programme exploring
women’s creative practice engaged in by members of the Unit’s 3 research centres. Curatorial
practice, in particular exhibition making, is a feature of the Unit’s practice-research in all
disciplinary areas including fine art, design and architecture, as well as being integral to the Unit’s
historical and archival research and public engagement. For instance, its expertise in photography,
film and cultural history is key to the University’s long-running cultural partnership with Royal
Borough Kingston, which in 2021 will see the opening of the world-leading Eadweard Muybridge
Collection in the University’s new ‘Town House’ building and library, ensuring public and research
accessibility.

During the current assessment period, staff have produced 24 monographs, 128 book chapters, 28
edited collections, over 100 articles in refereed journals, 27 curated exhibitions, and over 90
practice outputs in art, architecture, design, film and new media. Mainstream research income in
the period totalled £1.23M (£25.8k per FTE), supported by £1.48M academic, administration and
central services research income, of which 99% related to AHRC DTPs (LDoc/TECHNE) and
student training. The total value (including fees) of these externally funded PhD awards was
£2,086,309, with an additional £686,982 in internally funded studentships. New research grants
with headline value £1.285M have been secured from AHRC and Heritage Lottery Fund, among
others. In addition, research activity, especially practice-research, has been augmented by a
variety of awards direct to artists, and museum commissions. The Unit supports a diversity of
partnerships, working with small, specialist galleries, alternative art spaces and community groups
and international museums such as the Walker Art Center in the US, Vitra Museum in Germany
and the V&A Museum. Researchers have contributed to international Biennales as exhibitors and
curators.



                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Central to the Unit is its community of PhD students, which has grown from 21 completions in the
2014 cycle, to 46 in this cycle (plus 5 by publication and 5 wholly overseas). Currently the Unit
has 97 enrolled students, including 2 Masters of Research (31st July 2020), over 50% of whom are
fully funded. Through the University’s membership of AHRC DTPs, TECHNE and LDoc, the Unit
has secured 31 TECHNE and 12 LDoc awards in the period (including 5 Collaborative Doctoral
Awards, with Crafts Council (2), BFI, ICA, Ben Eri and one NPIF with Arts Economics) plus
1 AHRC Block Grant Partnership Award 2013/14. In addition, the University has awarded 13 full or
part studentships. A further 5 TECHNE and 2 KU studentships have been awarded for 2020/21
(Total value £123,713). Supporting its community of PGRs through research events and
exhibitions, as well as participating in and hosting consortia training and development, is integral to
the Unit’s research culture.


b. Unit Structure

The Unit is structured around 3 research centres:
      Visual and Material Culture Research Centre (VMCRC)
      Contemporary Art Research Centre (CARC)
      Modern Interiors Research Centre (MIRC)

and 3 research groups:
       Research Through Design (RTD)
       Register
       The Visible Institute (VI)

They represent a continuation of and extension to the environment underpinning its 2014
submission, bringing together Unit researchers and enabling focused disciplinary investigation and
cross-pollination. Research Centres are formally recognised by the University’s ‘Centres of
Excellence’ scheme. They develop and disseminate research activity; generate funding
applications and pathways to impact; mentor ECRs; lead on PGR recruitment; provide a hub for
PGR development and activity; curate research seminars and public events; and establish
collaborations with other HEs and industry partners. Research Groups provide a similar set of
functions in close relationship with the Centres, although they are more geared towards
encouraging staff collaborations and supporting emerging areas of research, especially in areas of
practice research.

b. i) Research Centres

VCMRC is led by Professors Lloyd and Barber and comprises 15 researchers, 11 of whom are
submitted to this Unit, including 2 ECRs (Fatehrad and Gray) and 4 staff to UoA33. There are 29
current PhD students aligned with this UoA (including 11 TECHNE and 1 LDoc Awardees). Since
REF2014, the Centre has had 17 PhD completions and mentored 2 AHRC-funded Post-doctoral
Fellowships (2018-19).

Activity focuses on researching histories, practices and theories of modern and contemporary art
and visual cultures, predominantly in Europe, North America and Japan. The Centre has
developed its focus through five interwoven strands: (i) Alternative Modernities and Transnational
Encounters (Black, Carter, Fatehrad, Hakim, Lloyd) (ii) Mobilisation of Archives and Collections:
publication, exhibition, film and digital platforms (Barber, Black, Carter, Fatehrad, Horrocks,
Gray, Lloyd, Wickstead) (iii) Material and Immaterial Heritage (Barber, Black, Fatehrad,
Horrocks, Lloyd, Wickstead) (iv) Forms of Intervention in Social Practice: Art and cultural
activism (Barber, Fatehrad, Gray, Hothi, Lloyd, Mencia) (v) Expanded Visual Culture: histories,
theories and practices of urban culture, performance, film and photography (Barber, Fatehrad,
Hothi, Lloyd, Mencia).

Researchers have been awarded £693k of external funding in the period. Highlights include
awards supporting PhD students to achieve international placements and Research Fellowships

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
totalling £118k from the AHRC, Italian Council (Directorate General for Contemporary Creativity)
and Japan Foundation Endowment Committee. Unit expertise in archives and collections has led
to a number of awards, including Heritage Lottery funding, to develop KSA’s institutional history
and holdings, led by Lloyd (2014-2016, £56,500). Since 2019, a new collaborative focus on
Eadweard Muybridge’s moving-image and photographic archive has developed, prior to its 2021
relocation from Kingston Museum to Kingston University’s new ‘Town House’ building, where it will
be publicly accessible in new library and archive facilities. Alongside substantial estates investment
by the University, this research collaboration has attracted a new award (Aug-18) from the Terra
Foundation, and has been supported by personal awards from British Academy and Paul Mellon
Centre, the latter in collaboration with VI researcher Warnell as part of a shared interest in still and
moving image.

VMCRC’s primary output strategy has involved conducting and disseminating research through
publications, curating, programming and online platforms. Research output includes 21 externally
funded exhibitions, screening and online projects including The Sunshine War: The British in Italy,
1917-18 (Estorick Collection, 2017) (Black), Sohrab Shahid Saless: Exiles (Goethe-Institut London
and the Munich Film Museum, 2017-18) (Fatehrad), The Studio of Objects: Eduardo Paolozzi
(£125,000 Nesta Funding, ICA, 2015) (Horrocks), Artaud: 70 years on (Whitechapel/
Cabinet/Visconti Studio, 2018) (Barber) and Tank.TV (2014 - 2016) (Hothi). External recognition
includes Wickstead’s appointment to the Finds Committee of the Chartered Institute for
Archaeology and as a Museum Mentor to the Society for Museum Archaeology.

CARC, led by Balaskas and Kidner (co-directors), comprises 13 researchers, including 2
professors (Nelson and E. Price) and 1 ECR (Kidner). PhD completions in the period have
increased from 8 in REF 2014 to 15 in this cycle (6 AHRC/TECHNE Funded), with 20 students
currently enrolled (7 TECHNE funded). The work of the Centre unites practice with criticism,
curating and writing, and focuses on social and political engagement though art, as evidenced by
the work of its professors, Mike Nelson and Elizabeth Price. Researchers work in the areas of
installation art, painting, lens-based media, and performance practice. There are four overarching
research areas in CARC: (1) Technology and new media (Balaskas, Kenning and Kidner); (2)
Social Context and Pedagogy (Addison, E. Price, Stokes and Vasseur) (3) Epistemology
(Eichelmann and Harris); and (4) Materiality and Process (Bick, Gillam, Nelson and Teplin). The
centre has fostered particular interest and expertise in film and photography (Warnell, Rodriguez,
Squires) leading to the establishment of the Visible Institute research group, in 2017 (described
below). As a member of CARC, Squires’ work was awarded £39,942 by the Wellcome Trust in
2015. Researchers have also secured over £425,000 of supporting funding (paid directly to artists),
in the form of artists’ commissions, residencies, production and touring costs, from sources such
as ACE, Artangel, Hayward Touring, Sotheby’s and the European Investment Bank Institute.
Researchers work with a wide variety of national and international partners (e.g. Tate, Chicago
Institute of Art and Palais de Tokyo and the Unit also benefits from its long-running partnerships
with the Institute of Contemporary Arts, London (since 2015) and the Stanley Picker Gallery. The
Unit, Gallery and ICA collaborate on the University’s annual Stanley Picker Public Lecture
Programme.

CARC facilitates staff and PGRs through regular centre meetings and collaborative curatorial,
publishing and programming initiatives. PhD practice research crits take place in the ICA Studio six
times a year. Researchers and PhD students in the Unit also work collaboratively, such as the
long-running project (since 2015) ‘We are Publication’ which experiments with contemporary art
publishing through jointly realised projects, including exhibitions at the Stanley Picker Gallery
(2019), Focal Point Gallery (2018) and Dekalb Gallery at Pratt Institute, New York (2019).

MIRC, led by Sparke, has 10 researchers including 3 professors (Kirkham, Pavitt and Sparke)
and currently 15 PhD students (Including 4 TECHNE and 3 LDoc Awardees) and 12 PhD
completions. Located across architectural and design history research, and intersecting with
practice, MIRC is internationally recognised for the study of interiors and their contents from the
mid-19th century onwards. Research themes include: Interiors and Well-Being (Fisher, Jakob,
Pavitt and Sparke); Interiors in Latin America (Lara-Betancourt); Interiors and Film (Ioannidou,

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Kirkham, and former staff member O’Brien); curating and interiors (Knott, Pavitt, Rossi, Sparke
and Scholze); interiors and craft (Kirkham, Knott and Rossi). Visiting scholars and advisory
board members include Professor Alice Friedman (Wellesley College, USA); Catherine Ince (V&A
Museum) and former KSA Professor Charles Rice (UTC, Sydney).

MIRC researchers have been awarded external funding of £325k (KU headline value) in the
period, including O’Brien’s AHRC Fellowship ‘The Electrification of the Irish Home’ leading to a
major exhibition with the National Museum of Ireland (Kitchen Power, 2019-20), for which Sparke
was advisor. Research has resulted in numerous curatorial collaborations with international
museums, galleries and design festivals. The Centre supports researchers in their development of
impact through this type of engagement (2 of the Unit’s case studies relate to museum
collaborations undertaken by MIRC researchers; ICSUoA32O'Brien3 and ICSUoA32Rossi2).
Researchers have curated 4 other exhibitions in the period: Tendenser (Galleri F15, Norway, 2018)
(Knott); Superstructures (Sainsbury Centre for Visual Arts, 2018) (Pavitt); Night Fever (Vitra
Design Museum, Germany, 2018) (Rossi); and What is Luxury? (V&A, 2015) (Scholze). MIRC is
strongly collaborative in its publications, co-producing 5 edited collections including: British Design
(V&A Publications, 2015) (Fisher and Sparke); the Journal of Design History special issue
Locating Design Exchanges in Latin America and the Caribbean (2019) (Lara-Betancourt); and
the Interiors: Design, Architecture, Culture special issue Stage and Screen (2020) (Kirkham), as
well as monographs produced by 6 MIRC researchers. Emerging areas of collaborative interest
(and the subject of funding proposals in development) include health and well-being (shared with
the Research Through Design Group, and evidenced by Jakob’s design and dementia practice
research and impact) and landscape (the latter a collaboration with Reading University since 2019
to investigate the Landscape Institute Archive, led by Fisher and Sparke, with links to the interests
of the Register research group, in particular Fatsar).

Since 2014, MIRC has convened 7 conferences and symposia with partners including the V&A
Museum and Parsons School of Design (New York), and 6 international conference panels. Its
annual conference, held at Dorich House Museum, is combined with a work-in-progress
symposium for its PGRs. As a response to Covid-19, MIRC established ‘Screened Interiors’, a
virtual monthly reading and social media group exploring the interior under pandemic conditions.
MIRC’s 2021 conference will focus on this theme and will be linked to a publication.

b. ii) Research Groups

RTD, led by ten Bhömer, comprises 12 researchers including 2 Professors (Charny, Kelly), 1
ECR (Miers) with 11 PhD students and 6 PhD completions (with 6 LDoc and 1 TECHNE awards in
period). Research areas are: (1) Living Well - design for the body to support care, rehabilitation
and positive life experience (Davies, Micklethwaite, Miers, ten Bhömer); (2) Inclusive
Communities - design to promote inclusivity and social sustainability and provide for those with
specific needs (Charny, Jakob); (3) Curating Places - design as site-specific practice relating
directly to its audiences (Clerkin, Gannon, Ioannidou, Kelly, Charny); (4) Fashioning Identity –
design to explore the material expression and transformation of meaning (ten Bhömer); (5)
Sustainability Design – designing to enable productive response to the climate emergency:
(Chalaris, Micklethwaite); and (6) Designing Learning – design as a driver of pedagogic
innovation (Charny, Gale).

Knowledge exchange leading to impact is a particular strength, namely in the areas of dementia
care (Jakob, ICSUoA32Jakob4) and educational provision for social design (Charny,
ICSUoA32Charny1). RTD works closely with MIRC, given shared interest in health and well-being
and also curatorial practice (Charny, Kelly). The group collaborates regularly with the Stanley
Picker Gallery and KSA partner institution, the Design Museum (Charny).

It supports its researchers through regular events such as the monthly “Research Conversations”
(2018-2019) and termly “Desert Island Researchers” series (2019-2020). Emphasis is placed on
postdoctoral and ECR development: RTD supported a 2018 AHRC-LDoc Early Career Design


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Fellowship in health and design (Dr Jo Gooding); Chalaris is a current LDoc PhD; former RTD
PhD Student Dr Ninela Ivanova became visiting researcher in 2019.

REGISTER is led by Clancy. The Group builds on the Unit’s long-running research interest in
architecture, landscape and urbanism. It comprises 13 researchers, including 1 Professor
(Clancy) and 2 ECRs (Brennan and Coward). There are 11 current PhD students (1 LDoc
funded). With a practice-research focus, group members undertake architectural projects,
publications and exhibition-making, aligned to the following themes: Live Projects (Brennan,
Burges, Coward, Hayatsu); Space, Place and Architecture (Fatsar, Suess and Stara); Drawing,
Models and Architectural Representation and Theory (Gough, Lueder, Stara and Wells) and
Urbanism and Community Engagement (Lueder and Austin Williams). The theme of Architecture
and its Languages is the current focus of development.

REGISTER members have been featured in exhibitions internationally including the Venice
Architecture Biennale (Clancy and Brennan, 2018) and ‘Alternative Histories’; an international
travelling exhibition of architectural models and drawings (Burges, Clancy and Hayatsu, 2019).
REGISTER’s other public-facing activities include a lecture and podcast series of 40 episodes,
attracting over 150,000 listeners. In 2019 the Group convened the Paul Mellon-supported Frascari
Symposium on architectural drawings (leading to a co-edited publication, Routledge, forthcoming).
REGISTER publications are financially supported by the International Network for Traditional
Building, Architecture & Urbanism (INTBAU). Architectural research has also benefited from
industry collaboration: two KTPs with Clive Chapman Architects (one in previous REF cycle, the
second awarded in March 2015, worth £118,684), focussed on the transfer of practical and
theoretical knowledge of sustainable building procurement. Lueder was awarded £3,449 QR-
GCRF funding to develop his research into sustainable cities, in 2018/9, and to support
collaborative bidding with international partners.

The Visible Institute (VI) was instigated in 2017 by the growing body of former CARC researchers
conducting lens-based practice research. Led by Warnell, VI comprises 11 researchers, including
1 Professor (McMullen) and 9 PhD students (5 TECHNE-funded, 1 LDoc). Research themes
include: Social Justice and Trade Unionism (Parker); The 2008 Global Economic Crisis
(McMullen); Social Value and Space (Ferrari and J. Price); Contested Landscapes (J. Price); and
Cinematic Crime and Translating Life-Worlds (Warnell); Contemporary Immigration and Identity
(Varveropoulou); Family Relations and Notions of Belonging (Fletcher); Social Cohesion and
Reintegration (Douglas); Trauma and Post-Colonialism (Lawrenson); and Queer Histories and
Cultures (Squires).

VI researchers are building pathways to impact through extensive public engagement including
organising exhibitions and festivals, e.g. the annual film festival Frames of Representation at the
ICA; the exhibition Shot in Soho (Rodriguez, The Photographers Gallery, London 2019); and the
inclusion of Warnell’s film Ming of Harlem in Making Nature (Wellcome Collection, London 2016-
2017), which attracted over 130,000 visitors. VI forms part of an ICA-led consortium which has
produced several ACE-supported emerging filmmaker commissioning schemes since 2014,
including Channel 4 (Random Acts) and BBC (New Creatives). Warnell has also convened ICA
symposia (Wild Minds, 2017) and artists’ film public engagement events (Sensitive Film, 2020) in
conjunction with this network. VI researchers come together through a monthly seminar series co-
ordinated by Fletcher, and an annual lecture programme by McMullen.


c. Research and Impact Strategy

Our strategy builds on plans outlined in the REF 2014 submission which consisted of:
strengthening research centres and groups, and their developmental role; continued investment in
staffing and partnerships; developing a lively and sustainable PGR community; building pathways
to impact through applied, collaborative and interdisciplinary research.



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research centres have continued to provide a sustainable environment for researcher
development. Research groups have grown out of long-standing disciplinary interests in the Unit
(design, architecture/landscape and film/photography) and address the following: supporting
practice-research; developing impact and knowledge exchange through public engagement and
industry collaboration; fostering community between staff and PGRs in emerging areas of
research.

c. i) Interdisciplinarity

The established disciplinary bases of the Unit have been complemented by a marked increase of
interdisciplinary research in the period, supported by the formation of new groups and through the
Unit’s impact strategy (see below). The academic career development framework (Domains, see
Section 2, and the institutional environment statement) places increased emphasis on the
relationship between professional practice, KE and research, within a framework of impact, which
is especially appropriate to art and design.

Researchers are encouraged to develop their interdisciplinary interests through funded conference
attendance and through internal events designed to support greater experimentation and
engagement. Recent events designed to foster interdisciplinary engagement include: a
collaborative event between art, design and music (at the University’s Visconti Studio, 2018);
round-tables on expanded practices in relation to design and health; curating and archives, and the
creative industries (2018); and a cross-faculty Staff and PGR workshop entitled ‘How to be
Interdisciplinary in Arts & Humanities Research’ (2020). Individual researchers have led cross-
disciplinary investigations, bringing art and design practice and history into dialogue with, for
example: geography (Ferguson), archaeology (Wickstead), social history (O’Brien), military
history (Black); and film studies (Kirkham); and film-making with economics and philosophy
(McMullen), natural history and zoology (Warnell). Through a greater degree of interaction
between practice and history/theory in particular, there has been a marked development of
curatorial research methods and exhibition-making as collaborative, practice research (Balaskas,
Pavitt, Scholze, Rodriguez, Rossi, amongst others); also evidenced in the number of PGRs
employing curation as part of their practice or text-based research.

Two key areas have been identified for further strategic investment in the next cycle: ‘Design,
Health and Well-being’; and ‘Alternative Pedagogies’. A third, interdisciplinary research into
technologies of vision, has been identified for development, building on the Unit’s research into
visual media and culture, and historic technologies of vision (for example, Barber and Lloyd, on
Muybridge), and in collaboration with the University’s s Faculty of Science, Engineering and
Computing.

1. Design, Health and Well-being

Micklethwaite and Jakob lead this area which builds on new design research and research
activity present in REF 2014 (Dalke). With a focus on the use of service and participatory design to
improve the user experience in healthcare, and on the ways in which wellbeing is being ‘designed’
and experienced in terms of interiors, the initiative brings together RTD (Davies, Jakob and
Micklethwaite) and MIRC researchers (led by Sparke) with the Faculty of Health, Social Care and
Education, leading to the development of collaborative funding bids (such as a £250,000 Stroke
Association Project Grant application, 2019, and a forthcoming MIRC AHRC application around
design and well-being).

2. Alternative Pedagogies

Led by Balaskas, (co-chair of Collaborative Research, Midlands Higher Education and Culture
Forum (Arts Council England)), this initiative seeks greater engagement between teaching, arts
pedagogy and educational research in general, by connecting with the Kingston Educational
Research Network (KERN, submitted under UoA 23). Building on the 2015 Henry Moore
Foundation and HLF-funded research into the history of KSA’s own pedagogy (Lloyd), current

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research themes include democratic and self-led education models (Charny and Gale) and gallery
education practices and experiential methodologies (Addison). Researchers are already engaged
in publications and partnerships with cultural programmes, such as Tate Exchange (Addison) and
Nottingham Contemporary (Balaskas). A 2019 international conference ‘Architectures of
Education’ (with Nottingham Contemporary and e-flux Architecture) was followed by an e-flux
Architecture platform publication (2020) investigating the impact of Covid-19 on education.

c. ii) Impact Strategy

Developed from the Unit’s evaluation of its REF2014 impact strengths and potential, and from the
2018 revised University Impact Strategy (led by Pavitt), the Unit’s approach to impact brings
research, teaching and knowledge exchange into closer alignment and fosters public and
community engagement through co-creative methods and by building strong cultural partnerships
over time (such as the ICA and Design Museum). Learning from KEF self-evaluation, the Unit
invests in its community, cultural and local/regional business links as drivers of research and
impact. These areas of strength underpin future direction and are evidenced as follows:

   •   Increasing public engagement and expanding access to arts and cultural heritage

O’Brien’s AHRC-funded research on Irish rural electrification (ICSUoA32O'Brien3) and Rossi’s
internationally-funded research into club culture (ICSUoA32Rossi2) have continuing impact on
international museum and curatorial practice, in terms of the preservation and interpretation of
material culture. Barber and Lloyd’s work supporting the Muybridge collaboration with Kingston
Museum is part of a long-term impact strategy for the collection. Charny’s work with the Design
Museum has shaped their curatorial approach, in particular embedding understanding of ‘making’
into gallery narratives. Research by Scholze (V&A); Pavitt (Sainsbury Centre); Wickstead (British
Museum); Black (Estorick Collection; Imperial War Museum) amongst others has contributed to
museums’ curatorial understanding; focussed on the need for preservation of material heritages;
increased public engagement through new knowledge and novel forms of presentation; and
improved accessibility to collections through exhibitions and archives. HLF funded research into
the history of Dorich House, led by Fisher, has increased interaction with local communities
through oral histories; similarly O’Brien’s work with community groups in Ireland and Wickstead’s
work with the Museum of Futures/Museum of Today (Community Brain) has brought social benefits
through creative engagement.

   •   Increasing quality of life, enhancing well-being and improving educational opportunity
       through design and creativity

The Unit’s focus on health and well-being benefits through design has been developed
considerably in this period. Jakob’s work around dementia care and sensory environments
(ICSUoA32Jakob4), has led to benefits in product innovation and improved care environments.
Researchers have brought community well-being benefits through collaboration with local group
Community Brain, such as the ShedX & the Surbiton Yatai projects, designed to stimulate
communities in reimagining urban and green space (Hayatsu & others). ShedX was selected for
the Mayor of London’s Good Growth Fund in 2018. Educational opportunity, through art, design
and making, has been a significant area of concentration, exemplified by Charny’s sector leading
work (Fixperts, FixEd) (ICSUoA32Charny1), and artist-collaborations with museums and galleries
providing experimental learning encounters for their publics (Addison, Balaskas).

   •   Bringing benefit to the creative economy through knowledge exchange and co-creation

Researchers work with corporates, charities, community groups and users to develop Knowledge
Exchange activity, bringing benefits to communities and the economy. Kingston University was part
of the Random Acts network for emerging filmmakers, developed by ACE and Channel 4, and led
in London by KU strategic partner ICA (with Warnell), between 2015-18. Since 2018 the scheme
has been superseded by New Creatives, with the same consortium involved: Chisenhale Gallery,
Dazed, SPACE Studios, NTS Radio and New Contemporaries, now partnering with the BBC and

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
ACE. Currently, the partners collectively mentor and support the production of 24 short films and
audio works produced for BBC platforms by young creatives every year, competitively selected
among more than 800 applicants per round; Kingston Filmmaking students and alumni often
featuring in the selection. Chalaris was Research Fellow for the Body Shop Innovation Catalyst, a
research partnership with Body Shop led by the University of Brighton (2015) which aimed to
develop sustainable materials, manufacturing processes and packaging. Gale led a partnership
between KSA and Amnesty International, aiming to raise public awareness of Amnesty’s work to
support refugees, leading to a Gold Creative Conscience award. The KTP with Clive Chapman
Architects (CCA), led by former staff member Pretlove, enabled the company to gain in-house
expertise in sustainable and environmental design. Unit activity has contributed significantly to the
value and recognition of the creative economy, through the production of the AHRC-funded report
‘The Hidden Story - Mapping Knowledge Exchange Partnerships for the Creative Economy’
(Williams, former staff, 2016-17, £99K).

c. iii) Future Strategy

The Aims of the Unit for the next REF cycle are:
   1. Increase the range and scale of interdisciplinary and collaborative research
   2. Strengthen practice research, especially in collaboration with industry partners, through
      knowledge exchange and teaching innovation
   3. Extend the reach and significance of the Unit’s research impact working with civic, cultural
      and business partners
   4. Support and develop Unit researchers, especially ECRs, through effective implementation
      of the University’s career development framework
   5. Encourage an open and inclusive approach to research

Unit strategy is informed by the University’s Strategic Plan (KU22), and its key objectives to foster
knowledge and learning that benefits society; aligning research, knowledge exchange, professional
practice and teaching within a framework of impact. Faculty research is led by Associate Dean for
Research, Business & Innovation (Chatzichristodoulou), with oversight for the 4 Units of
Assessment in KSA (27, 30, 32, 33). The Faculty embarked on a review of its research
environment in 2020-21, underway at time of submission, involving extensive engagement with
external stakeholders and faculty researchers. In line with KU22, the Unit will endeavour to
increase and deepen research and impact; ensuring effectively designed pathways to impact;
strengthening partnerships, training and mentoring staff in the specifics of impact and its
evaluation; ensuring good evidence capture through use of impact tracking software; and placing
added emphasis on open research. In particular, there is strong potential to increase the Unit’s
interdisciplinary impact through greater interaction between researchers in art and design and
other University departments in health, business and technology. Furthermore, impacts in teaching
and learning are driving new research initiatives, in ways which will bear fruit in the next REF cycle.

Open Research
The Unit encourages an Open Access research environment, in line with the University’s ‘Green’
Open Access policy. Additional funding is made available for Gold Open Access article processing
charges, alongside any RCUK/UKRI funding for gold access. Research support and Library staff
and school research directors are active in encouraging and training staff in Open Access policy to
ensure compliance. The Unit is committed to increasing the discoverability and usability of its
practice-research, and engages with sector initiatives such as PRAG-UK (Pavitt) in support of this
endeavour. The Unit’s approach to public engagement is part of its commitment to Open
Research, by working with publicly funded partners on exhibitions and events. The Unit has also
increased the range of freely available online content, though electronic publications (Dorich House
cross-centre research publication on women’s creative practice DORA and podcasts by
REGISTER. There is growing interest in open research embedded into research practice – rather
than only into its dissemination. For example, Charny's work with Fixperts (ICSUoA32Charny1) is
founded on principles of co-design and open research, built around the Fixperts’ 'wiki'.




                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

a. Staff

a. i) Appointments

Since 2014 the Unit’s people strategy has been: retention and reward of staff in areas of research
performance; strategic appointment and replacement of former staff in key research areas;
appointment and support of ECRs through KU funded post-doctoral appointments. In line with the
Academic Careers Development Framework, staff are supported to develop skills and experience
as researchers through training, appraisal and mentoring opportunities, and to increase
collaborative activity leading to larger scale projects. Experienced staff are encouraged to act as
mentors and in advisory roles for grant development and project oversight.

32 staff have been appointed in the period. This includes 5 professors (Clancy, Kelly, Kirkham,
Pavitt, E. Price) and 10 ECR appointments. Clancy’s appointment was part of a focused growth in
architecture research that also includes Wells, and 2 ECR appointments (Brennan and Coward).
Kirkham and Pavitt (design history and curating) brought international museum collaboration and
research impact expertise. E. Price is a Turner Prize winning artist who leads on the development
of research-informed fine art practice. The Unit also hosts visiting researchers from international
institutions including in China, Denmark, Italy and Japan; plans to increase this number are part of
future research strategy. Internally-funded postdoctoral appointments in the cycle have supported
research centre development, such as CARC (Kenning, Flintham – former staff) and VMCRC
(Fatehrad).

Appointments have supported emerging areas of research such as illustration (Gannon, and
ECRS Gray and Miers), creative & cultural industries (Gander and Scholze) and collaborative arts
research (Balaskas). New staff are offered mentorship, specially designed research induction and
training targeted to ECRs by the Graduate School, 1:1 support from school directors of research,
and extensive training in areas such as Research Ethics and PhD supervision.They are invited to
join Research Centres and Groups as part of their introduction to the Unit. For existing staff,
training and support in grant development, impact, research supervision, the preparation of
outputs, research integrity and open research can be accessed at any level/grade. Development
needs and opportunities are discussed at staff appraisals and in 1:1 meetings with SDRs.

a. ii) Early Career Researchers

Supporting the next generations of researchers is central to the Unit’s research strategy. Of the 8
ECR appointments made in the REF 2014 submission period, 6 have been retained and are
submitted to REF 2021 (Bond, Fisher, Rossi, ten Bhömer, Lara-Betancourt, Teplin and
Wickstead). 2 (Gavin Grindon, Rob Knifton) have moved to posts as University Academic
Fellows at Sussex and Leeds University respectively. 10 ECR appointments have been made in
this REF period. Of these 6 are current staff (Brennan, Coward, Fatehrad, Gray, Kidner and
Miers); others have been supported to gain posts at HE institutions including Birkbeck (Thomas)
and UAL.
Funding through the University Research Transformation Fund for specific PDRA appointments
(total £144,000 2016-18). The Unit was also awarded a 10-month AHRC-funded Early Career
Design Fellowship in Design for Health (£40k, 2018) (Jo Gooding) and a 7-month AHRC
Innovation Fellowship (£26k, 2018-19) (Owen Humphries) with the Museum of London.

a. iii) Staff Development

Unit researchers are supported by several initiatives aimed to develop research and impact at
individual and collective levels. Annual faculty research funding competitively allocates small
awards to support the development of external funding applications, outputs and research impact
(c.£180,000 to researchers in the REF cycle). As examples, internal faculty awards have supported
an AHRC Leadership Grant (O’Brien, 2016-19), central to the development of an Impact Case

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Study; internal funding for Jakob and Rossi’s outputs, also leading to ICSs. University awards
include: First Grant Scheme (former staff Thomas, £6,695 and Knifton, £7,700, both 2015-6);
Lueder, Global Challenges Research Funding for his sustainable cities and communities research
with India (£3,449, 2018-9); and International Research Travel Awards (Santander University
Fund) total of £3,450 to Nixon (former staff); Lueder, Lara-Betancourt.

An annual researcher development programme is offered at institutional, faculty and school levels,
designed to implement research strategy. Central (RBI) training is delivered by the Graduate
Research School through a structured programme aligned to the academic career framework and
through the biannual Festival of Research, benefiting PGR, ECR, new joiners and supporting
career development at all levels. This is supplemented through bespoke activity which faculties
request or co-deliver with the RBI team, such as targeting funding calls and impact development.
The faculty, schools and departments hold regular research awaydays and seminars aimed at
researcher development. The faculty also provides showcase opportunities for researchers, such
as the 2018 Modes of Practice exhibition of staff and PGR research. The 2020 Festival of
Research programme, delivered online due to Covid-19, was driven by key areas of both current
and future strategy, with internal and external speakers exploring issues of interdisciplinarity,
gender, and equality, diversity and inclusivity. Centres offer research leadership, support staff to
increase the quality of research output through peer review, and assist in building collaborative
research teams for strategic bidding. Centres and research groups have supported staff to
increase interdisciplinary exchange, bring in new impact partners, and foster teaching, KE and
research cross-over.


b. Postgraduate Research Students

Table 1. PGR (PhD) students and doctoral completions
 Research assessment         PGR students (PhD)                   PhD completions
 period
 RAE 2008 (Units 63 and 64) 55                                    8
 REF 2014                    58                                   21
 REF 2021                    95                                   46

A significant expansion in PGR supervision, training and development has occurred since 2014
as part of the Unit’s strategic PGR development largely through the University’s successful
applications to participate in two schemes: the AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership (TECHNE)
and the AHRC-funded London Doctoral Design Centre (LDoc); and also through competitively
awarded university-funded studentships. Both have enabled new joint supervision and
mentoring, expanding interdisciplinary and specialist training. The much-expanded PhD
community and supervisors are supported by Academic Postgraduate Research Student
Coordinators in each of KSA’s 4 schools, as well as a Faculty Director of Postgraduate
Research Studies (Lloyd). Outcomes include a 119% increase in PhD completions from 21 in
REF 2014 to 46 in this submission. Notable is the growth of PhDs in architecture, film and
illustration, reflecting the growth of research activity and supervisory expertise in these areas,
supported by the Research Centres and Groups.

b. i) Recruitment

The Unit has attracted PhD students from over 23 countries. PGRs are integrated into the Unit’s
research culture as members of Research Centres. The Unit has 95 PhD students (39% full time),
including 8 under examination. Of these 95, 60% are funded through studentships with 40 AHRC
awards [28 TECHNE, 12 LDoc], 5 overseas government sponsored, and 13 competitively-won
institutional awards.




                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
b. ii) Studentships and bursaries

The Unit has been awarded 43 AHRC funded PhD Studentships and 2 MA Studentships since
September 2013: 31 PhDs through Techne (including a NPIF Studentship with Arts Economics and
4 AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Awards (CDA) in partnership with the Ben Uri Gallery, BFI, Crafts
Council and ICA), 12 through LDoc (including 1 CDA with the Crafts Council) and 1 AHRC Block
Grant Award. These represent £2.4m in external funding (excluding KU matched funding). A
further 13 students have been awarded University Studentships at Research Council rates. In
addition, the Faculty has supported 25 PGRs with fees or stipend bursaries. The Unit has been
awarded a further 5 TECHNE Awards for 2020 (including a CDA with Brooklands Museum) and 2
KU studentships.

AHRC-funded students have benefited from funded specialist training, research visits and
placements. All non-AHRC students also receive Faculty support to undertake research visits and/or
conference presentations, including research in Italian fashion archives, the national archives in
Jamaica, and the Ransom Archive in America.

b. iii) Student Training

PGRs undertake a mandatory Unit research training programme in research methods, ethics,
skills and planning, and present their research-in-progress in cross-Centre monthly workshops.
Additionally, Schools, Research Centres and Groups run tailored programmes of lectures,
seminars and workshops. CARC students participate in one-day monthly research workshops at
the ICA with invited respondents, collaborate on exhibitions and publications, and organise public
events, including PhD exhibitions at the SPG. MIRC and VMCRC students participate in regular
work-in-progress workshops and Centre events, including annual PGR symposia (MIRC) and
PGR conference workshops. REGISTER students attend the Group’s evening lecture series, VI
and RTD students attend regular seminars. The Unit encourages cross-group attendance on an
informal basis.

The Unit’s strategy has also created cross-institutional PGR training opportunities at national and
international level in the REF period. This includes the twice-yearly TECHNE Congresses and
regular TECHNE workshops, specialist LDoc workshops and 3 annual LDoc keynote lectures (1
annually organised by KSA) with accompanying workshops open to PGRs in the Faculty. KSA
hosted the TECHNE Congress ‘The Sound of Research’ June 2016. KSA staff have successfully
applied for 4 annual TECHNE Art & Design History Training workshops organised in partnership
with the University of Brighton, the RCA and RHUL.

PGRs organised the AHRC-funded Designing Participation conference at the Royal Society of
the Arts (RSA) (2017); the TECHNE Student Congress Out of the Comfort Zone (2018) at
Toynbee Hall; the AHRC-funded symposium Art Is No Business? (2018); the Edges of a Close
Reading PGR workshops (2018-19); the Another Land exhibition and public programme at
Kingston Museum (2019), and the international conference in partnership with the Royal
Academy of Art, Researching Art Market Practices (2019).

Several funded residencies and placements have also been awarded: 2 AHRC-funded in
Design; a 3-month AHRC Creativeworks Residency (2013-14); a 3 month AHRC International
Placement Scheme at Smithsonian Institute (2018-19); 3 month AHRC/LDoc residencies at the
Bexhill Museum, Bishopsgate Library and “Croydon Arts Store” (2018-19) and 2 placements at
the MayDay Rooms (2019-20). PGRs also undertook 22 externally funded residencies in the
UK, Europe and the US.

Career Preparation is part of KSA-wide and Centre-based skills training programmes. PGRs are
encouraged to present their research in public arenas through conferences/symposia,
exhibitions, and publications. Since September 2012 PGRs have presented their research at
over 240 national/international events. Over 95% of PGRs graduating over the period have been
appointed as post-doctoral researchers, lecturers, associate professors or curators in
                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Universities and museums in countries including the UK, Bali, China, Hong Kong, Italy,
Germany, Japan, Pakistan, South Africa, Sweden, the United Arab Emirates and the USA.

b. iv) Supervision and Completions

46 PhD students (plus 5 by publication and 5 wholly overseas) have completed since August 2013,
compared to 21 completions in REF 2014. These include 12 AHRC-funded awards (BGP,
TECHNE, and 2 CDAs). There has been substantial growth in the pool of experienced supervisors
this cycle, achieved through enhanced supervisory training and mentoring, alongside new staff
appointments. Students are aligned to research centres and groups, and cross-centre supervision
ensures supervision teams provide the appropriate combination of specialism and experience. An
effective completion rate is maintained through annual monitoring and recorded supervision
feedback.


c. Equality and Diversity

Ensuring equality and diversity is embedded in all areas of research activity and strategy in the
Unit is a key aim. Kingston University holds a Race Charter Award and an Athena Swan bronze
award, and KSA is in the process of developing an Athena SWAN application. The University’s
Beyond Barriers mentoring scheme aims to ensure that all staff and students have the best
possible chance to succeed in their study or work and progress against equality objectives; several
Unit researchers have engaged with the Scheme as mentors and mentees. Unit researchers are
also members of the KU-wide Network of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Champions and
staff undertake unconscious bias training, including in relation to peer review of research.
These initiatives are designed to further equality and diversity in the Unit. It is composed of 30
female (43%) and 40 (57%) male researchers, a slight growth from REF 2014 when 41% of
researchers were female. There is an even gender split among both the 24 full-time staff and of 11
professors, 5 are female.

81% of unit researchers identify as white and 10% as BME, slightly higher than the recorded sector
average (source: Advance HE). Unit EDI initiatives include: 2 Crafts Council TECHNE/LDoc CDAs
on Diversity in Craft (2018 and 2019); an LDoc CEE post-doctoral fellowship on disability design
(2018-2019); and 3 staff appointments focused on non-Western and decolonising research
(Fatehrad, Hakim and Thomas). ECR needs have been specifically considered in updated HR
policy and support programmes, which includes a BAME leadership programme.
Staff exemplify art and design’s diversity imperative, including its decolonising agenda, through
projects including: public engagement and education with Tate (Addison); co-editing a Journal of
Design History special issue (“Locating Design Exchanges in Latin America and the Caribbean”,
2019) (Lara-Betancourt); and the ESCR/NordForsk funded project Making it Home: An Aesthetic
Methodological Contribution to the Study of Migrant Home-Making and Politics of Integration.

The Unit has included research EDI workshops and talks as part of the research programme,
including two events organised for the KSA’s 2020 Festival of Research programme on gender in
arts and humanities research, and EDI in design research. Dorich House Museum launched an
ACE-funded fellowship to support women creative practitioners (2015) and was part of an ACE-
funded project on audience development to grow and diversify museum audiences across West
London (2017/18). Stanley Picker Gallery has been working on diversity in response to the ACE
agenda and its National Portfolio Organisation status.




                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

a. Income

Research income in the period totalled £1.23M (£25.8k per FTE), supported by £1.48M academic,
administration and central services research income, of which 99% related to AHRC DTPs
(LDoc/TECHNE) and student training. New research grants awarded totalled headline value
£1.285M with notable increased value in research grants awarded, from £37,766 in 2013-2014 to
£462,782 in 2019-20.

Notable awards in this period include:
   • Lloyd with Fatehrad, Making it Home, NORDFORSK and ESRC (2019), (£405,010)
   • Lloyd Engaging Heritage, 140 Years of Kingston School of Art, HLF (2014), (£56,500)
   • O’Brien, Electric Irish Homes, AHRC (2016), (£199,814)
   • Fisher, The “Squatter Years”, HLF (2019), (£65,262)
   • Rossi, China’s Creative Communities (AHRC (£33,968)
   • Williams (former staff), The Hidden Story, AHRC (2016), (£98,917)


Table 2. Analysis of Research Funding
 Research     Services Mainstream Headline          Research funders
 Centre /     research research       value of
 Group        income      income      awards
                                                    AHRC, British Academy, Creativeworks
                                                    London, DAAD, EU Directorate, GB
                                                    Sasakawa Foundation, Henry Moore
                                                    Foundation, HERA, Heritage Lottery
 VMCRC         £489,385 £299,366        £693,254
                                                    Fund, Iran Heritage Foundation, Japan
                                                    Foundation, Japan Society, NESTA,
                                                    NORDFORSK, Paul Mellon, Wellcome
                                                    Trust
                                                    Arts Council England, Creativeworks
 CARC / VI     £568,981     £64,431      £39,942
                                                    London, Wellcome Trust
                                                    AHRC, Association for the study of
                                                    modern Italy, British Council, Craft
 MIRC /                                             Scotland, Heritage Lottery Fund,
               £359,117 £705,326        £424,395
 RTD                                                Moorfields Eye Hospital, NESTA, Society
                                                    of History of Technology, Venice
                                                    Biennale, Vitra Design Museum
                                                    British Council, CABE, Creativeworks
 REGISTER        £54,514 £161,053       £127,684    London, Department for Communities
                                                    and Local Government, EU

Research has been supported by both research awards and other financial and in-kind support
from over 65 national and international research councils, charities, foundations, and cultural
organisations.


Table 3. Details of other financial and in-kind support
 Approx. Minimum         Supporting organisations
 value in-period
 Consultancy and Publication funding
 CARC: £25k              BBC; Artangel; Henkel Foundation; Paul Mellon
 VMCRC: £23k
 Grants to Artists and Principal Investigators


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CARC: £121k           Arts Council England; Biennale de Lyon; British Council; City of
 VMCRC: £9k            Malmö; Deutscher Akademischer Austauschdienst; Elephant Trust;
                       Freelands Foundation; Graham Foundation; Henkel Foundation;
                       Henry Moore Foundation; Irish Arts Council; Kunsthalle Münster;
                       National Cultural Fund, Ministry of Culture in Romania; Open City;
                       Paul Mellon; Wellcome Trust
 Commissions, Prizes and Residencies
 CARC: £52k            Huntington Library; La maison rouge; Oxford University; Cork Opera
                       House and the National Sculpture Factory, Ireland; Film and Video
                       Umbrella; Sotheby’s; AGC Equity Partners; Tuplin Fine Art
 Production, Touring and in-kind support
 CARC: £230k           Artangel; Arts Council England; Manchester Whitworth; Piper Keys
                       Gallery

Quality of funding applications is maintained by bid writing support and costing by research
development managers, and an effective University Peer Review College process for proposals.
Other initiatives include: KSA and university level ‘Bidathons’ to foster research grant development,
regular presentations of staff research, informal mentoring and workshops led by RBI and Unit
research leaders including Barber’s Leverhulme funding workshop (April 2020), sessions on
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships, workshops and talks on grant capture. A review of bidding
capacity by level of experience for all research-active staff was undertaken in 2019, to inform
strategy for bid preparation and annual targets in the future.


b. Infrastructure and Facilities

KSA has a faculty-wide operational infrastructure designed to support research activity and foster
an integrated approach to research, learning and teaching, enterprise and business. Research in
the faculty is led by the Associate Dean for Research, Business and Innovation. The Unit benefits
from a supportive and well-resourced environment for research including Faculty-facing Research,
Business and Impact Development Managers from the University Research, Business and
Innovation Office (RBI). They assist staff in identifying opportunities for external funding,
developing grant applications, identifying external partners, designing pathways to impact, and
evidencing and evaluating impact. RBI coordinates a structured process of internal peer review of
applications.

School Directors for Research, Business & Innovation (SDRBI) (Balaskas, Micklethwaite, Rossi)
and PGR Coordinators work closely with the AD RBI, Head of Schools and Departments. Their
roles and responsibilities include: facilitating individual and collaborative research; mentoring new
and existing staff, annual monitoring of school research activity; supporting grant development;
developing and implementing faculty research strategy, organising school-level research events
and initiatives, collaborating with PGRs on PhD student research support, and supporting ECRs.
SDRBIs report to both the Associate Dean for Research, Business and Innovation and Heads of
School.

The ADRBI and SDRBI team hold regular informal meetings and a formal fortnightly meeting, the
Research Working Group, and participate in the quarterly FRBIC together with Research Centre
and Group directors, Chair of the Research Degrees Committee (Lloyd), Faculty Research Ethics
Lead, ECR representative, RBI representatives and a Learning & Library services representative.
These meetings drive the Unit research strategy and provide strategic oversight of research and
business engagement.

Research infrastructure includes a KSA College of Research Ethics, led by Lueder, which reports
to the University Research Ethics Committee, members of which undertake mandatory research
ethics training. From 2020 Epigeum online research skills and research integrity training was made
available to all staff in the Unit.


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
b. i) Resources and Facilities

KSA has a resource-rich environment which supports research activity and skills development, and
provides a public platform for research engagement. Resources and facilities consist of: studio and
workshop facilities open to all staff and students, technical support and training; a specialist library
of art and design on the Knights Park Campus, in addition to the university learning resource
centres and special collections; lecture theatres, seminar, symposia and publicly accessible
exhibition spaces.

Key to KSA’s development in this REF period has been:
   • £32 million refurbishment and extension to the Knights Park campus. Designed by Stirling
        Prize-winning architects Haworth Tompkins, and with 4100sqm of studios and 4300sq m of
        workshops, the Mill Street building opened in 2019-20. It includes additional and enhanced
        workshops, post-production and animation suites, digital media labs and editing suites,
        photography suite and specialist 3D workshops. There has been investment in technical
        facilities to support the ‘thinking through making’ ethos which pervades research in all
        areas in the Unit.
   • Since 2014, £500,000 of new equipment has been added to the audio-visual loans store to
        facilitate free-of-charge borrowing of specialist equipment for researchers and students.
   • All workshops receive continuous investment year on year, such as a large format digital
        fabric printer for the 3D workshop (the only printer of its kind in London), an A2 riso graph
        printer in Printmaking, and laser engravers and cutters both in the 3D workshop and
        Printmaking. In 2016 a Hack Space workshop (creative coding and programming) was
        established and £160,000 was invested in a new Letterpress and Bookarts workshop.
   • The opening of the University’s new Town House Building, designed by RIBA 2020 Gold
        Medal winners Grafton Architects, signals a new chapter in cross-disciplinary collaboration
        and opportunities for public engagement and impact. To mark its opening, the Stanley
        Picker Gallery programmed Offsite, a series of exhibitions of Unit research professors
        Kelly, Nelson and E. Price and former Stanley Picker Fellow Yemi Awisole for 2020.
        While programming has been affected by Covid-19, a selection of Nelson’s Asset
        Strippers Tate Britain commission (2019) was able to be installed in March.

b. ii) Museum, Gallery, Archive and Collections infrastructure

The Unit’s strategy for museum and gallery, archives and special collections hinges on:
   • enhancing public understanding of and access to contemporary and historical resources;
   • care and preservation of these resources (including cataloguing and digitisation as
      appropriate);
   • working with fellowship programmes to foster new artistic, design and curatorial research,
      which includes the commissioning of new work;
   • developing international, scholarly and practice-based networks through exhibitions,
      conferences and events leading to research outputs;
   • fostering research skills in archival and curatorial practices.

The University’s public cultural venues, Stanley Picker Gallery (SPG) and Dorich House Museum
DHM, are integral to this strategy.

SPG was established in 1997 with support from the Stanley Picker Trust. Part of ACE’s National
Portfolio since 2012, its programme supports the development of, and public engagement with,
contemporary art and design, through new commissions, exhibitions, events and fellowships. The
Gallery is led by director David Falkner, and Unit researchers work with the gallery team to curate
exhibitions, programme joint research and PGR events, engage in collaborative teaching, and act
on advisory board and selection panels (e.g. Scholze, Pavitt, Rossi). The Gallery plays an
important role in developing researchers’ curatorial skills and practices; including J. Price’s The
End of the Sentence exhibition (opened in January 2020, then temporarily closed due to Covid-19),
linked to a Dora Gordine commission for Holloway Women’s Prison, and ten Bhömer’s footwear-


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
based design research. Curatorial collaborations have also been undertaken by Charny, Rossi,
Scholze, Kelly and Stara in this REF period.

The Stanley Picker Fellowship Programme, supported by the Stanley Picker Trust, commissions
new research-led work by a selected artist and designer annually. Previous fellows have included
Unit researchers ten Bhömer and E. Price. The fellowships have led to prize-winning work; Oreet
Ashery won the Jarman Award (2017) for her fellowship work. Since 2014, the Gallery has worked
with CARC and the ICA on the Stanley Picker Lecture series, fostering dialogue between
researchers and the public. Speakers have included: Georgina Starr, Fiona Banner, Marvin Gaye
Chetwynd, Ansel Krut, Gavin Turk, Sarah Michelson, Laura Mulvey and Joshua Simon. The 2018
Stanley Picker Public Lectures were linked to a cross centre CARC/VMCRC event (Barber and
Eichelmann) celebrating the work of artist and theorist Antonin Artaud (at Cabinet Gallery and
ICA).

DHM is the Grade 2 listed, restored 1930s studio-home of Estonian sculptor Dora Gordine (1895-
1991) and her husband Richard Hare (1907-1966), a scholar in Russian art and literature, and
comprises the major international collection of Gordine’s work, Russian art and design, an archive
as well as the building itself, which is open to the public. DHM provides a venue for academic
conferences and research events with partners including the Daiwa Foundation, GRAD and the
Lithuanian Cultural Institute. It is managed by Falkner with DHM curator Fisher, who is also a
researcher in MIRC. Current funded research (Fisher, HLF, The Squatter Years) examines the
building’s recent history of occupation and use and curatorial issues surrounding its transition from
a studio-home to a studio house museum and will result in the reinterpretation of the house and
collection for public and academic audiences from Autumn 2020.

As part of its mission to promote and support women creative practitioners, DHM launched a
Fellowship Scheme (ACE-funded) in 2015, with artist Hilary Lloyd the inaugural fellow, and runs an
annual summer studio residency (privately supported) for women artists. MIRC’s annual research
symposium, run in collaboration with DHM, has resulted in several themed publications. DHM also
supports individual research, including providing the setting for Teplin’s Arch film (2016).

DHM provides an important international resource for research into artists’ homes, collections and
archives, and new thinking about artistic interiors and heritage. This includes loans for international
exhibitions, participation in national and international curatorial and research groups, and ArtUK’s
national Sculpture Project (to July 2020) which has included knowledge transfer with museum
professionals in Greece. DHM also assists PGR and ECR development, for example, Fisher
supported PhD researcher Ben Angwin to co-curate Mantelpiece Modernism: The Omega
Workshops, Bloomsbury, and Gordine at DHM in Autumn 2018.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

a. Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

The Faculty has formal strategic partnership agreements with the Design Museum and the ICA and
is a member of CHEAD, ELIA, The Culture Capital Exchange (TCCE) and the Creative Industries
Federation.

Unit researchers work with over 70 national and international academic, cultural and business
stakeholders. These include: Crafts Council, British Film Institute, Delfina Foundation, Kingston
Museum, Kyoto Institute of Technology, the Centre for Craft, Creativity and Design (North
Carolina), the Design Council, Tate Exchange, Moderna Museet (Stockholm), Barbican, ICOMOS,
The Rose Theatre, Museum of London, the RSA, The Academy of Fine Arts (Helsinki), Historic
England, Bard Graduate Center New York, Fondazione Cirulli, and the International Institute of
Social History (IISH) in Amsterdam. Operating from PGR to professorial level, and from individual
to faculty level, these relationships are mobilised to conduct research and organise public events to
advance research activity, engage with audiences, maximise pathways to impact, and conduct
collaborative doctoral work.

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Unit researchers have curated over 30 exhibitions since 2014 with institutions including: the Design
Museum (Charny), V&A (Scholze), Hayward Gallery (E. Price), Estorick Collection (Black),
Fundación Juan March, Madrid (Kirkham), Sainsbury Centre for Visual Arts (Pavitt), Vitra Design
Museum (Rossi), Kunsthalle in Münster, Germany (Nelson), Tate Britain (Nelson), the National
Museum of Ireland (O’Brien), the Istanbul Biennale, (Scholze), Venice Architecture Biennale
(Brennan, Clancy and Rossi) and Bluecoats (Teplin).

Research Centre Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
The Research Centres play a key role in developing sustained partnerships and collaborations,
highlights of which are outlined below.

   •   CARC researchers oversee the Unit’s partnership with the ICA, which significantly
       enhances the Centre’s research through programmes and symposia. Links between
       practice and pedagogy and engaging new audiences is reflected through work with Tate
       Exchange, the Freelands Foundation, and Q-Arts publications.
   •   RTD researchers have cultivated relationships including with the Women's Institute,
       culminating in a catwalk show at the Royal Albert Hall as part of the organisation's
       centenary celebrations; dementia design research with Coombe Hill Manor care home
       (Jakob); curatorial research with the Design Museum and the V&A (Charny); Manufactory
       – a three-day event at London’s Old Spitalfields Market (2017) in which staff (including
       Micklethwaite) and students turned stalls into live making spaces.
   •   MIRC organises conferences and events in collaboration with partners including Dorich
       House Museum, the V&A Museum and Parsons School of Design in New York. MIRC
       members’ collaboration with the Crafts Council has led to the curation of exhibitions and
       participation in events (Scholze), contribution to exhibition publications (Rossi), and co-
       supervision of CDAs (Knott). Several MIRC researchers (Kirkham, Pavitt, Rossi, Sparke
       and Scholze) have undertaken curatorial, publication and speaking activities with
       international museums such as Vitra Design Museum and the V&A.
   •   Regular REGISTER conferences and symposia are organised in collaboration with
       partners, including: Japanese Avant-garde ‘red school’ and UK contemporary crafts (Dorich
       House Museum, 2016); Representing Irregular Urbanism (ICA, 2017); live projects have
       been exhibited at Ecobuild (2014), Dorich House Museum (2016) and the Barbican (The
       Japanese House, 2017). REGISTER also has a growing relationship with the architectural
       drawings archive Drawing Matter Trust; including a Summer School (led by Clancy) and
       the trust’s Director Niall Hobhouse's keynote contribution to the 2019 Frascari Conference.
   •   VMCRC researchers have a particular relationship with Kingston Museum, including the
       appointment of an Honorary Assistant Curator (Wickstead), curation of the Histories of the
       Making exhibition (2015, Lloyd) and sustained collaboration on the Muybridge archive
       (Barber) which aims to further public access to the Borough’s Muybridge Collection.
   •   Dorich House Museum is a member of several networks including: the West London
       Museums Group (with Fisher as Steering Group member), Artists’ Studio Museum Network
       and Iconic Houses Network. Fisher also sits on the steering group of the Iconic Houses’
       Icons at Risk conservation initiative.


b. Contributions to the Research Base, Economy and Society
Unit researchers make significant contribution to research and the advancement and sharing of
knowledge in the sector, performing important citizenship roles on research councils, grant
awarding bodies, disciplinary societies, peer review, juries and selection panels, journal advisory
and editorial boards, and through keynote addresses, conference papers, visiting professorships,
residencies and invited exhibitors.

b. i) Research Councils and Organisations

Unit researchers have served as panel members and peer reviewers for national research councils
in this REF period, including: Pavitt’s appointment to the REF 2021 UoA 32 subpanel and

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
membership of the UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship Scheme Panel (as a chair and reviewer). 5
(Black, Pavitt, Rossi, Scholze and Wickstead) have served on the AHRC Peer Review College
in the REF period, compared to 2 in REF 2014; researchers also contribute to international
research assessment including FCT Portugal (Pavitt, 2017-) and the Austrian Science Fund
(Sparke, 2017), and to PhD awarding panels, including the AHRC Techne Doctoral Award
Scheme panel (Lloyd, Pavitt) and its Peer Review College (Black, Hakim and Horrocks), and the
AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award Scheme panel (Pavitt). Researchers have also engaged in
peer review for funders including Leverhulme Trust, British Academy, the British Council,
Wellcome Foundation, Design and Art Direction (DAAD) and RIBA Research Grants Committee.
Mencia is Executive Member of the Electronic Literature Organization (ELO) Board of Directors.

b. ii) Juries and Selection Panels

Researchers including Charny, Fatehrad, Lawrenson, Nelson, Rossi and Scholze have been
invited to serve on international juries and selection panels for practice research in countries
including Germany, the Netherlands, Turkey, and the UK. Evidencing the Unit’s close relationship
with the Design Museum, 3 serve as nominators for the Design Museum’s Design of the Year.
Pavitt is on the panel awarding Association of Art Historians Fellowships.

b. iii) Journal and Publisher Editorial and Advisory Boards

Unit researchers are substantially engaged in leadership and contributory roles for peer-reviewed
journals significant to the Unit’s disciplines. 4 are journal editors or chairs: The Journal of Design
History, (Fisher and Sparke); The Journal of Modern Craft (Knott); Leonardo Electronic Almanac,
ISAST / The MIT Press (Balaskas). 16 serve on journal advisory and editorial boards for 22
journals based in countries including Germany, Hungary, Mexico and Sweden and the UK. Mencia
is Editor for the "Electronic Literature" series with ELO- Bloomsbury Press. Researchers have
additionally served in advisory roles for book series including Reaktion and Solar Books/University
of Chicago (Barber).
Researchers also peer review for 37 journals including Journal of Architecture, Art History, Journal
of Design History, Architectural Theory Review (Sydney), Design and Culture, Interiors: Design,
Architecture, Culture, The Design Journal, and the International Journal of Sustainable Design and
21 international academic publishers, including Routledge, Bloomsbury, Manchester University
Press, University of Toronto Press and Sage.

b. iv) Advisory and Trustee roles

Unit researchers hold various advisory and trustee roles for academic, industry and third sector
organisations. Barber is on advisory board of the Urban Laboratory research centre at UCL.
Black was specialist adviser (Fine Art) for the AHRC on BBC VE Day Coverage project (2015), is
adviser to the Fondazione Massimo e Sonia Cirulli, Bologna, Italy (2017-) and Adviser to
Acceptance in Lieu Panel, Department of Culture, Media and Sport. Pavitt was on the Royal Mail
Stamps Design Advisory Committee (2012-7), and is a member of the Design Museum Curatorial
Committee. Lueder is member of the International and Industrial Steering Committee, EPSRC-
GCRF project Healthy Housing for the Displaced (2017-). Kirkham was advisor to the exhibitions
The Worlds of Charles and Ray Eames, Barbican Art Gallery (2015-6) and William Morris y
compania, Fundacion Juan March, Madrid (2017). Nelson served on Board of Trustees, New
Contemporaries (2004–2020). Rossi is Trustee for the Museum of Youth Culture (2018-).

b. v) Fellowships, Residencies and Visiting Professorships

Unit researchers have been awarded Fellowships, Residencies and Visiting Professorships in the
REF period. Highlights include: Barber, Visiting Professor and Research Fellow at the Berlin Free
University (2013- 2016) and Visiting Researcher at Keio University, Research Centre for the Arts,
Tokyo (2017); Black’s completion of the one-year Fellowship as part of the AHRC/BBC ‘Our Place
in the First World War’ project (2013- 2014) identified in REF 2014, and Visiting Fellowship at the
Henry Moore Institute for the Study of Sculpture, Leeds (2017); Fatehrad’s appointment as visiting

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
researcher for ‘In-Formation’ archival research project, at Careof, Milan; Scholze’s appointment as
a Research Fellow of the Victoria and Albert Museum; Charny led a 'Thinking Through Making'
one-week workshop at Kyoto Design Lab at Kyoto Institute of Technology (2015), where ten
Bhömer has been a D-lab Designer in Residence (2018).

b. vi) Awards, Prizes and Nominations

Researchers have received over 40 national and international awards, prizes and nominations in
recognition of their contributions in this period. These include Irish Architect of the Year 2019
(Clancy); Golden Leopard for Best International Short, Locarno International Film Festival 2014
(Lawrenson); London Design Festival Design Innovation Medal 2019 and Misha Black Award
(2020) (Charny); and selection for the Tate Britain Duveen Galleries commission 2019 (Nelson).

b. vii) Keynotes, Conferences and Events

Researchers are regularly invited to deliver international keynotes. 16 researchers including
Barber, Charny, Clancy, Lloyd, Pavitt, Scholze and Sparke have been invited to give 38
keynotes in countries including Australia, Belgium, Canada, Finland, France, Japan, Portugal, the
UK and the US. Researchers have staged 29 conferences and symposia and chaired 25
conference panels in the REF period.




                                                                                           Page 19
