Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Aberdeen

 0B   Unit of Assessment: 1 (Clinical Medicine)

 1B   1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 A: UOA1 OVERVIEW:

 Advancing translational medicine across a range of complex clinical challenges is the primary
 objective of the University of Aberdeen’s 140-researcher Unit of Assessment 1 (UoA1) Clinical
 Medicine. It has the necessary integration of clinical and medical science research to deliver
 improved care at the hospital bedside, with multidisciplinary expertise spanning bench medical
 sciences through to applied health sciences. Drawn from the University of Aberdeen’s School of
 Medicine, Medical Sciences and Nutrition (the School), with its long history of medicine and
 medical research, UoA1 researchers are co-located with the NHS Grampian Acute Sector
 hospitals at one of the largest healthcare sites in Europe - the Foresterhill Health Campus. This
 vibrant research environment, defined by integrated teams of bench scientists, clinical
 academics and clinicians, provides an exemplary pathway for catalysis of medical science
 discovery and its translation.
 The dynamic translation of research into clinical practice is achieved through close School/UoA1
 partnership working with the NHS. The shared (NHS/UoA) sponsorship of major research
 projects includes clinical trials and shared clinical academic spaces involving University-led
 delivery of clinical services including imaging and IVF; these embed research within day-to-day
 clinical services. Together with our shared Data Safe Haven (DaSH) for governance of clinical
 data for research and public health, these elements are part of the unique environment within
 which translational medicine flourishes. The collaborative development of the Foresterhill
 Healthcare Campus has seen a new-build University GBP40,000,000 nutritional sciences
 research institute, and a University-funded GBP1,900,000 project will shortly build a first-of-kind
 Fast Field-Cycling MRI within the hospital estate for research clinical trials. On the same site, a
 planned GBP40,000,000 BioHub lifescience incubator will catalyse healthcare innovation.
 The integration of our health science research with the clinical work of the NHS Grampian
 hospitals has, for example, directly led to what is nationally one of the largest collections of
 clinical trials running concurrently in benign gynaecology and urology (GBP5,000,000) and has
 driven a range of impacts in medicine. Examples include: chronic pain management, fertility
 modelling, advances in understanding of medicines safety (Primodos); and in nutrition,
 microbiological food safety and nutrition in weight management. The integration of our distinct
 research and methodological strands is aimed at (i) understanding the mechanism of disease,
 such as, the causes and consequences of different conditions and (ii) developing effective
 treatments and ways of delivering patient care; in these ways, we deliver healthcare
 transformations to the communities we serve.
 Our communities further benefit from UoA1’s focus on industrial engagement, a strong
 contributor to our region’s future economic success. The economic impact arising from UoA1
 spin-outs was a key factor justifying the infrastructure investment in life sciences (for the BioHub
 incubator) from the Aberdeen Region City Deal (ACRD). This ongoing collaborative effort is part
 of a wider strategy to grow a life science industry to drive economic diversification in the North
 East of Scotland. Through UoA1’s spin-out company generation, and a clear impact strategy set
 in the context of our healthcare environment, UoA1 research is leading to the development of
 new medicines and medical devices, including Elasmogen (next generation immuno-
 therapeutics), TauRX (Alzheimer’s Disease therapeutic) and Sirakoss (bone implant devices for
 orthopaedic surgery).

 A structure to enable delivery of our mission
 The School is organised into five institutes, with UoA1 staff primarily located in the three most
 research-intensive of these; the Institute of Medical Sciences, focused on biomedical and
 translational medicine research; the Rowett Institute, one of only two specialist nutritional

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research institutes in the UK; and the Institute of Applied Health Sciences, comprising applied
 health and epidemiology researchers. The 140 researchers who were in 2014 organised and
 assessed across UoA 1, UoA2 and UoA5 are now a single UoA1 Clinical Medicine Unit. This
 enhanced research coherence is expressly designed to deliver healthcare insight and impact
 across preventive medicine and public health. The School’s health services researchers with
 methodological focus (30 FTE) are being submitted separately in UoA2, with small numbers also
 to UoA5 (5) and UoA23 (2.4). The impact of our interdisciplinary research and its translation
 extends beyond UoA1, underpinning impact case studies presented in UoAs 8, 11 and 18.

 Our strategy is underpinned by thematic organisation of research into cross-cutting, healthcare
 challenge Centres, using disciplinary expertise drawn from across our Institutes (Figure 1). The
 disease-themed Centres focus on cancer, arthritis and musculoskeletal health, medical
 mycology, cardiovascular disease and diabetes, translational neuroscience and women’s health.
 These six Centres are supported by two more methodology-focused Centres in Data Science
 and Imaging. The final research focus, nutritional science, is already thematically organised
 within the Rowett Institute. In section B, we describe the unique strengths of each grouping, and
 how each delivers key translational medicine impacts.




 ___________________________________

 B:   DISEASE AND HEALTHCARE FOCI

 B1: Cancer
 The Aberdeen Cancer Centre (led by Speirs) integrates cancer expertise from cell biological to
 health data science, focused on breast, prostate and colorectal cancer. Its unique strengths are
 defined by its integration with the School’s health data science expertise (Anderson, Black-C.)
 and novel imaging technologies (Fast Field-Cycling [FFC]; Lurie, Broche), together
 representing a significant translational medicine advantage. The Centre was formed in 2017 as
 part of a GBP4,500,000 partnership investment by NHS-Grampian, the University of Aberdeen
 and the charity Friends of Anchor. Speirs’ appointment has already been strengthened by the
 appointment of Anderson, a cancer epidemiologist in the Centre for Health Data Science, in the
 context of the 2023 opening of a GBP163,000,000, Scottish Government-funded, NHS cancer
 centre on the Foresterhill Health Campus.


                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cancer biology: Speirs is investigating key differences between the biology of male and female
 breast cancer and is collaborating with NHS breast cancer surgeons Elsberger and Masannat.
 Clinical academic pathologist Murray-G. has shown how digital pathology and immune-
 histochemistry can be used in colorectal cancer stratification of patients for enhanced treatment
 options. McEwan is researching a new class of androgen receptor-targeting molecule to treat
 recalcitrant castrate-resistant prostate cancers (MRC, Prostate Cancer Research Centre
 GBP1,500,000 combined). Through a GBP800,000 CRUK Programme grant, Donaldson is
 investigating the role of the DNA replication factor Rif1 in tumour cell survival, through its effects
 on chromosome stability (PMID: 31141682) with Early Career Researchers (ECRs) Kubota
 (GBP970,000 MRC Fellowship) and Hiraga, now appointed to Lecturer and Senior Lecturer
 positions. Clinical appointment Ramsay adds expertise on genome stability in colorectal cancer.
 The focus on genome biology is complemented by Hu (DNA condensation) and Lorenz (meiotic
 recombination).
 Diagnosis, prevention and treatment of cancer in primary care: Research on the HPV
 vaccination (Cruickshank PMID: 28965955) has quantified reductions in HPV incidence,
 informing the cervical screening programme structure and cost-effectiveness models. Murchie’s
 primary healthcare research on cancer referrals is complemented by analyses of differences in
 diagnosis and treatment of rare cancers that comprise 25% of the population burden
 (Anderson). Miedzybrodzka’s clinical genetics expertise has revealed stratification of
 oesophageal cancer responses to gefitinib (PMID: 28537764). The Aberdeen Cancer Centre is
 closely linked to breast cancer surgery in the adjacent Aberdeen Royal Infirmary; NHS breast
 surgeon Masannat (NRS Career Research Fellow) is working with Lurie and Broche on novel
 cancer imaging technologies, with the potential to transform diagnosis and patient stratification;
 and Elsberger (NRS Fellow) is piloting the launch of a Scottish Breast Cancer Genetic Mutation
 Database with Speirs and Miedzybrodzka, showing the strength of the shared University-NHS
 Foresterhill health campus.

 Examples of impacts arising:
    1. Cruickshank’s work on HPV vaccination revealed the remarkable efficacy of the bivalent
       HPV vaccine (PMID: 28965955; 2019 top-100 Altmetric scores), leading to her WHO
       consultancy on European vaccination programmes, cited in WHO document “Global
       strategy towards eliminating cervical cancer as a public health problem”.
    2. The University of Aberdeen is an Innovate UK-funded (GBP660,000) member of iCAIRD
       (GBP10,000,000), a national network of four universities, Canon Medical Research
       (radiology) and Royal Philips (digital pathology), with the Centre for Health Data Science
       (CHDC) leading Aberdeen’s expertise in developing AI innovation in radiology and
       pathology. Working within the iCAIRD framework and the University’s Data Safe Haven
       (DaSH), NHS consultant radiologist, Lip, is clinically evaluating artificial intelligence
       algorithm (AI) analysis of mammography images for breast cancer diagnosis.
    3. The University’s biologics-based spin-out Elasmogen (Porter, UoA1) is developing shark
       antibody-derived (VNARs) from its patent-protected library of 100 billion clones. In
       collaboration with Almac Discovery Ltd, antibodies targeting the marker ROR1 for cancer
       treatment are being developed (entering pre-clinical development in 2021). With
       McEwan, Elasmogen is developing engineered antibodies to target the androgen
       receptor in prostate cancer.


 B2: Cardiovascular Disease and Diabetes
 The Aberdeen Cardiovascular and Diabetes Centre (Aberdeen CDC) has linked its clinical and
 molecular cardiovascular research with the Rowett Institute’s expertise in understanding of
 satiety and metabolic regulation signals, creating a unique combination of strengths. The Centre
 has a clear impact focus on cardiovascular disease including stroke, diabetes treatment and
 neurological control of energy metabolism and satiety.
 The diagnosis and treatment of heart attack and stroke are two key Centre foci; Dawson is an
 academic cardiologist investigating the role of mitochondrial function in heart disease and

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Takotsubo cardiomyopathy (TC-M). Funded by a total of GBP770,000 British Heart Foundation
 (BHF) grants, she is working with immunologist Wilson H., demonstrating that TC-M aftermath
 is associated with a number of inflammatory signals and cytokine disturbance (PMID:
 30586731).
 Macleod’s stroke management research (PMID: 31970577), including service organisation and
 secondary prevention, is complemented by her use of a unique clinical imaging instrument, the
 magnetic resonance Fast Field-Cycling developed by Lurie and colleagues, to image and
 diagnose stroke and small vessel disease. The understanding of blood clotting processes
 underpinning stroke is a focus of Mutch.
 Pursuing the development of new treatments, Mody and Thompson-D are investigating the use
 of the vitamin A-like drug fenretinide to counter type 2 diabetes. The Delibegovic group, funded
 by a total of GBP740,000 BHF, and a GBP600,000 grant from Cohen Global Pharmaceuticals
 has shown the inhibitory effect of the anti-cancer drug trodusquemine on heart disease-
 associated protein tyrosine phosphatase, acting to decrease atherosclerotic plaque size.
 Hoppler (GBP1,100,000 BHF programme grant) is using model systems and stem cell culture to
 understand cardiac tissue repair responses following infarction.
 Examples of impacts arising:
    1. Dawson: the establishment of the largest global registry of Takotsubo cardiomyopathy
       cases has led to communication with eDRIS to establish a Scottish, takotsubo disease
       code leading to a new correspondent code in the International Classification of Disease
       registry ICD11 (BC43.5 Stress-induced cardiomyopathy), facilitating collation of cases
       and patient metadata for studies of this condition.
    2. Lurie is constructing the next-generation, patient-ready, prototype of his group’s world-
       first Fast Field-Cycling (FFC) MRI instrument, a step-change in magnetic resonance
       imaging (MRI) technology. FFC uses a switched magnetic field strength during the
       collection of MR images, gaining access to radically new types of endogenous tissues
       contrast at a lower magnetic field strength compared to current clinical MRIs. The next
       generation instrument, sited within the Royal Infirmary complex and itself co-located with
       clinical MRIs, will allow cohorts of patients to directly transfer into the FFC facility for tests
       of its imaging capabilities across a range of clinical conditions including stroke and
       cardiology. The current prototype is already being used for brain imaging for stroke
       patients (Macleod PMID: 31320653) and a cardiac FFC MRI study (Dawson).


 B3: Medical Mycology
 The Centre for Medical Mycology was established to capitalise on world-leading understanding
 of the cell wall of fungal pathogens and their recognition by the innate immune system. The
 integration of these two fields of study within one Centre makes a genuinely transformational
 insight into immune recognition of pathogens possible. Recognised by the award of a
 GBP2,820,000 MRC Centre grant in 2016, it is backed by GBP2,300,000 of University of
 Aberdeen and School support for Early Career Researcher posts and PhD studentships.
 Over the REF review period, the Centre was underpinned by a GBP5,100,000 Wellcome Trust
 Strategic Award (WTSA: 2012-2020) awarded to Gow, in partnership with Radboud University,
 Netherlands. The WTSA created a Medical Mycology and Fungal Mycology Consortium, linking
 Imperial College and KCL, London and six other UK universities. Following this, Gow
 (GBP2,750,000; 2013-18) and Brown-G (GBP2,200,000; 2014-19), secured Wellcome Trust
 Senior Investigator Awards, and Brown-A was awarded an MRC Programme grant
 (GBP1,980,000; 2016).
 The Centre’s investigation of fungal cell-immune system interactions has made a series of major
 contributions to understanding in this area, including: identification of a melanin-sensing C-type
 lectin as an essential component of antifungal immunological resistance; the regulation of β-
 glucan masking and immune evasion by fungal pathogen carbon source (Brown-A., with ECRs
 Childers and Ballou); the cell wall shielding of immunogenic epitopes from the immune system

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in Cryptococcus (Munro, Gow); and “rewiring” of ubiquitination targets that govern Candida
 pathogenesis (Maccallum and Brown-A., with ECRs Childers and Ballou).
 The establishment, capacity building and maturation of the Centre for Medical Mycology over the
 review period are a testament to the environmental support that the School provides to foster
 excellence and the Centre development process. In 2018, after Gow secured a senior leadership
 position at the University of Exeter as Deputy Vice-Chancellor, the MRC Centre funding
 transferred to Exeter. A strong nucleus of PIs with fungal pathogenesis expertise continue to
 drive research in this area, including a focus on the molecular mechanisms of antifungal drug
 resistance (Munro, Maccallum, Childers, Lorenz, Rudkin).
 Examples of impacts arising:
    1. Brown-G. developed new understanding of the fungal-infection condition
       Chromoblastomycosis, affecting LMIC rural populations in South America. Brown-G.
       discovered that Toll-like (TLR) receptor immunity fails in chromoblastomycosis but can
       be restored by exogenous administration of TLR agonists (PMID: 24633683). This
       therapy was successfully tested in four patients using the FDA-approved topical TLR
       agonist (Imiquimod), with all showing clinical improvements.
    2. Award-winning (Converge Challenge 2019) Early Career Research, Rudkin’s research
       on human B cell-derived anti-Candida antibodies as a therapy for resistant fungal
       disease, (PMID: 30538246) underpins the new spin-out mycoBiologics.



 B4: Arthritis and Musculoskeletal Health
 The Aberdeen Centre for Arthritis and Musculoskeletal Health is unique in combining expertise
 in clinical biomedical science, epidemiology and health services research. This, along with the
 novel medical device spin-out company Sirakoss (detailed in the following section), forms a
 highly impact-driven portfolio that focuses on inflammatory arthritis and common
 musculoskeletal conditions that give rise to chronic pain. The Centre is designated a European
 League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) Centre of Excellence in Rheumatology (one of 22 such
 centres across Europe). Research across the Centre is structured into three main areas:
 Arthritis and Regenerative Medicine Laboratory; Research by de Bari and Roelofs is seeking to
 understand how stem cells and stromal connective tissue in the joint function in arthritis
 pathogenesis and joint repair (Arthritis Research UK [ARUK] GBP1,130,000; MRC:
 GBP500,000). Their research has now identified the proteoglycan agrin as a potent restoration
 factor for the bone-cartilage interface, with significant clinical translation potential for cartilage
 repair (PMID: 32878982). The Centre is also funded by Samumed, investigating the joint
 regeneration potential of the disease-modifying osteoarthritis drug (DMOAD) SM04690, currently
 in osteoarthritis clinical trials.
 The Epidemiology Group focuses on the epidemiology and modifiable risk factors of arthritis and
 musculoskeletal pain conditions (e.g., fibromyalgia) to inform clinical trials of therapies with the
 aim of improving patient outcomes. The group manages two important national databases, the
 British Society of Rheumatology (BSR) Biologics Register in Ankylosing Spondylitis (BSRBR-
 AS) (GBP970,000; Macfarlane) and the BSR register in Psoriatic Arthritis, funded by BSR
 (GBP1,000,000; Jones). The Epidemiology group leads research in occupational outcomes for
 people with arthritis and musculoskeletal diseases as part of the distributed MRC and Versus
 Arthritis Centre (hub at the University of Southampton; GBP550,000 for the Aberdeen “spoke”;
 Macfarlane). Macfarlane and Jones are conducting the Arthritis Research UK-funded
 MAMmOTH trial (GBP1,000,000), with the aim of preventing the onset of chronic widespread
 pain, having previously been the first to demonstrate a link between chronic pain and mortality.
 The Biomaterials and Bone Regeneration group is developing the now clinically licenced novel
 hydroxyapatite scaffolds for use in orthopaedic surgery, whose technology is developed by spin-
 out Sirakoss (Gibson; UoA 8 Chemistry) acquired by OssDsign in 2020.



                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Examples of impacts arising:
    1. Gibson’s bone graft substitute technology, a hydroxyapatite-based material applied
       during bone surgery to promote new bone growth (US Patent no. 8,545,895), received
       2019 regulatory approval in Europe and USA, with clinical use commencing in 2020.
       Sirakoss has secured venture capital (GBP4,000,000) and Innovate-UK grants (total
       ~GBP2,000,000) since 2014, and in 2020 was acquired by OssDesign for GBP8,400,000
       (forming an Impact Case study as part of this submission).
    2. Greig has developed a first-in-class anti-inflammatory drug invented and developed at
       the University of Aberdeen (PMID: 20692834; Granted patent application:
       WO2010/032009). Since 2014, the spin-out company, OsteoRx’s licensing partner
       completed Phase 1, and 2a clinical trials have secured investment of GBP12,400,000 for
       the clinical development and subsequently a GBP176,000,000 licensing option with
       Johnson and Johnson.
    3. Jones, McNamee, Macfarlane and Hannaford have generated impact through their
       research on chronic pain, affecting approximately 20% of the population. They
       established the burden of chronic pain in Scotland, prompting the Scottish Government’s
       decision to provide new funding of GBP1,300,000 to Scottish Health Boards to develop
       the Scottish Service Model for Chronic Pain (forming an Impact Case study as part of this
       submission).



 B5: Nutritional Sciences
 The Rowett Institute is one of only two research institutes in the UK carrying out mechanistic
 research in nutrition and is Scottish government-funded to deliver impact-driven nutritional
 science research (5-year, GBP37,500,000 RESAS programme). Director Morgan-P is leading a
 programme of fundamental and impact-driven human nutrition research that aligns closely with
 the Healthcare and Nutrition element of the University’s Aberdeen 2040 strategy. The Rowett’s
 research coherence is organised around Obesity and food choice; Gut Health; Metabolic Health;
 and Life-course Nutrition and has multiple collaborative links with the Aberdeen Cardiovascular
 and Diabetes Centre and Translational Neuroscience.
 Obesity and food choice; Heisler and Gonzalez Sanchez (aligned with the Aberdeen
 Cardiovascular and Diabetes Centre [B2], and Translational Neuroscience [B7]) are using
 advanced optogenetics to identify the neural circuits underpinning glucose homeostasis and
 hypoglycaemia responses and appetite regulation (PMID: 25470549; PMID: 26974347), and
 with d’Agostino, (MRC Research Fellow; GBP960,000) the potential of the anti-obesity drug
 locaserin to counter type-2 diabetes. Two other recent appointments, Sylantyev and Naneix,
 with expertise in neural mechanisms of food choice have further strengthened this unit. With a
 focus on dietary intake, Johnstone is working with Barrett and Mercer to understand how
 protein-rich diets can control satiety, linking directly to impact; Johnstone has funding from food
 producers (Tate and Lyle; GBP390,000) and retailers (M&S; GBP200,000) investigating dietary
 composition on satiety.
 Gut Health: Louis and Flint focus on the complexities of microbiome composition and role in gut
 health and have secured industrial funding to investigate key microbiome species for use as
 dietary probiotics. Walker has expertise in metagenomic analysis of microbiome composition
 and is collaborating with Haggarty on the GBP18,200,000 MRC GCRF-funded Action Against
 Stunting Research Hub, to investigate the role of the microbiome in childhood growth slowing.
 The Metabolic Health research group is conducting human dietary intervention studies focusing
 on links between diet and microbiome composition (Drew, Walker, Flint) and cardio-metabolic
 health outcomes in human intervention studies (de Roos, Thies), for example using randomised
 human intervention trials to assess the effects on volunteer blood omega-3 levels of consuming
 farmed salmon reared on different oils (PMID: 33015732). Lifecourse Nutrition forms the final
 research focus with a significant focus on the UN Sustainable Development Goals SDG2 and 3;



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Russell is funded by a BBSRC GCRF grant (GBP450,000) informing the use of moringa as a
 sustainable food source in Malawi.




 Examples of impacts arising:
    1. Supermarket retailing of protein-rich foods for calorie control diets: Johnstone’s
       research into the satiety-inducing effects of protein-rich diets (PMID: 28687371) has
       informed the development of Marks and Spencer’s highly successful “Balanced For You”
       health food brand, which enables consumers UK-wide to manage body weight as part of
       a healthy diet (ICS).


 B6: Women’s Health
 The Centre for Women’s Health’s (CWH) research adopts a life-course approach to women’s
 health, studying causes and consequences of common reproductive problems in women, the
 effectiveness of clinical interventions and the best way of delivering person-centred care.
 Integrated with NHS Grampian’s assisted reproduction unit, it draws on UoA1’s unique
 combination of strengths in reproductive physiology, nutrition and epigenetics, as well as
 epidemiology and innovative approaches to evidence synthesis, randomised clinical trials and
 prediction modelling.
 Fertility and infertility; Bhattacharya-Si’s, research evaluates the effectiveness of fertility
 treatments including intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) and PICSI modifications. Further
 NIHR-funded research is investigating embryo-freezing protocols in IVF (Bhattacharya-Si,
 GBP930,000). Recent appointment, Mol, has a mature portfolio of global randomised trials in
 infertility, revealing that a lifestyle intervention did not improve the chance of having a vaginal
 birth of a healthy child, and that frozen embryo transfer in IVF was as effective as fresh embryo
 transfer. Collaboration between them and their respective research groups since 2014 has led
 to a series of projects on a personalised approach to fertility treatment involving the use of novel
 prediction tools.
 Pregnancy and childbirth; Fowler leads research in the role of endocrine disrupters on foetal
 development (EU GBP600,000), including effects of maternal smoking and obesity on foetal
 thyroid and endocrine function. Vargesson’s research has revealed the teratogenic effects of
 the drug Primodos in model organisms, leading to impacts on medicine safety enquiries (see
 Impacts, below). Bhattacharya-So, has investigated the optimum interpregnancy interval
 following pregnancy loss, informing women wishing to conceive following miscarriage (see
 Impacts, below). Black-M., is using national data to investigate the consequences of different
 modes of birth including the associations between caesarean birth and childhood health.
 Menstrual bleeding and endometriosis: Bhattacharya-Si leads a programme of research in
 menstrual disorders, which has attracted over GBP6 million from NIHR HTA in the current REF
 cycle (Trials : Preempt, HEALTH, Diamond, Regal) revealing that laparoscopic supracervical
 hysterectomy is more effective than endometrial ablation in women with heavy menstrual
 bleeding (HEALTH trial; PMID: 31522846).
 Abdel Fattah leads research in pelvic floor disorders and continence including the management
 of female stress urinary incontinence and pelvic organ prolapse, covering a GBP5,250,000
 portfolio of NIHR HTA surgical trials, one of the largest trial portfolios in urogynaecology
 nationally (SIMS, FUTURE, Catheter II).




 Examples of impacts arising:
  1. Vargesson’s research into the effects of the 1970s pregnancy test Primodos on embryo
     development showed induced developmental abnormalities in zebrafish embryos (PMID:

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     19433787; PMID: 29440757). This informed a major UK independent public inquiry into
     Primodos, which in July 2020 concluded that “children suffered ‘avoidable harm’ from failure
     to regulate [Primodos]”. His expert opinion on Thalidomide teratogenesis has supported
     medical litigation cases in Italy, Australia and Canada. (both ICSs).
  2. Bhattacharya-So’s evidence-based meta-analysis of over 1m pregnancy records has
     revealed inter-pregnancy intervals (IPI) after an initial miscarriage do not affect subsequent
     conception chances, forming the basis of altered patient advice in multiple clinical and
     charity advice sources (PMID: 20688842).
  3. Bhattachrya Si and McLernon’s research (PMID: 27852632) used the UK Human
     Fertilisation and Embryology Authority (HFEA) database to demonstrate that the chances of
     IVF success stabilise after three cycles, meaning that further cycles may not be worthwhile
     for most couples. Their resulting probabilistic model is now online
     (https://w3.abdn.ac.uk/clsm/opis/) and available to any parents seeking to conceive via IVF.
     This has informed clinical reasoning and a policy change on IVF funded cycles by NHS
     Scotland. The research informs patient and clinician decision-making internationally, with
     the prediction model web tool delivered on the web site of the USA Society for Assisted
     Reproduction Technology, the primary professional organisation for assisted reproduction in
     the US (https://www.sart.org/).



 B7: Translational Neuroscience
 Translational neuroscience is a nascent centre, focused on a range of neuro-degenerative
 conditions, from Alzheimer’s Disease (AD) to Spinal Muscular Atrophy. This focus is
 complemented by research on the role of stem cells in neuro-regeneration and on AD
 chemotherapy, which is driving a number of important research impacts.
 Platt and Riedel’s research into neurodegenerative disease focuses on the role of pre-fibrillar
 tau with β-amyloid in AD pathology. This aligns well with the objectives of spin-out TauRX,
 where Wischik and Harrington (CEO, CSO) are developing new AD pharmaceuticals,
 collaborating with colleagues in UoA8, where the compounds are currently in several Phase 3
 clinical trials. Parson’s research on Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) is focused on understanding
 its causal mechanisms, showing that Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) causes vascular defects
 and spinal cord hypoxia (PMID: 26506088). Neuro-development and neurogenesis by adult stem
 cell progenitors is being investigated by Berg, revealing that in the mammalian brain, adult
 neural progenitors have an embryonic origin (PMID: 30929900). Erskine has uncovered new
 retinal connections between vertebrate eyes, essential for axonal guidance during development
 (PMID: 30905607). Kang is using stem cell-derived brain organoids, developed from patients
 with mental illness, to better understand their molecular mechanisms. Huang is studying the
 regulation of neurite outgrowth in spinal cord injury models.
 Neuroimaging is another significant focus. In an interdisciplinary team with physicist colleagues,
 Platt is using EEG as a novel imaging tool, able to time-, frequency- and direction-resolve
 communication within brain networks with potential for diagnosing delirium patients in ICU
 (PMID: 32455162). Lurie and Broche secured GBP1,030,000 EU funding to develop the first
 patient-capable FFC, an extension of MRI technology with unique imaging potential, now used to
 image the brain of stroke patients with Macleod (CSO; GBP300,000) and cardiac FFC MRI with
 Dawson (BHF; GBP280,000) . ECR Vuksanovic and Wischik are now using MRI to
 diagnostically resolve Alzheimer's disease (AD) and the related behavioural variant Fronto-
 Temporal Dementia (bvFTD).
 Examples of impacts arising:

    1. Wischik is Chief Executive of TauRx Pharmaceuticals, a University spin-out. With
       Harrington, TauRx is conducting phase 3 clinical trials of Alzheimer Disease treatment
       hydromethylthionine. TauRX has secured over USD300,000,000 investment since 2014
       and now funds a 68-scientist team at the University (ICS).


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    2. Saccade Diagnostics is a University of Aberdeen spin-out launched by St Clair. His
       research (PMID: 16860975) has identified a novel screen for psychiatric disorders by
       recording unconscious saccadic eye movements. Software analysis of these can
       distinguish schizophrenia from controls with a sensitivity of around 95%. This represents
       the first technology-based diagnostic tool in psychiatry. A GBP1,400,000 Department of
       Health/Wellcome Trust award to Saccade Diagnostics Ltd is being used to validate the
       technology.
    3. Keenan, working with Miedzybrodska, has developed support and mentorship tools for
       young people in families internationally, where an adult has Huntington’s Disease, to
       address the emotional stress caused by a parental diagnosis that has a 50% chance of
       affecting the young person in later life (ICS).




 B8: Data Science and Imaging
 The Centre for Healthcare Data Science (CHDS):
 The complexity of medical diagnosis, and of patient life-course journeys, creates large amounts
 of healthcare data with huge research potential. The Centre for Healthcare Data Science
 (CHDS), led by Black-C. and with the strategic appointment of Anderson, is using health data
 sciences to lead research on kidney disease, arthritis and stroke. CHDS provides key
 methodological support to research centres such as: a data linkage work package within the
 GBP800,000 Versus Arthritis-funded PACFiND study, designing care pathways for people with
 fibromyalgia; and the Nuffield Foundation funded study Rheumapps, examining care pathways
 for musculoskeletal conditions (Centre for Arthritis and Musculoskeletal Health-linked).
 Additionally, methods are being evaluated to better target care for breast cancer patients and
 other conditions (Aberdeen Cancer Centre-linked). In partnership with NHS Grampian, the
 CHDS operates the Grampian Data Safe Haven (DaSH), ISO 27001:2013 accredited for safe
 governance of NHS healthcare data and one of only five such safe havens in Scotland. In 2015
 it became a signatory of the Charter for Safe Havens in Scotland. These resources have been
 centrally important to NHS-Grampian as it responds to the Covid-19 pandemic. Established, led
 and managed by Aberdeen, but available for global research, the Centre is the custodian of
 unique database assets including the Aberdeen Children of the Nineteen Fifties birth cohort (six
 publications over the review period) and the Aberdeen Maternity and Neonatal Databank,
 comprising all reproductive events in Aberdeen from 1958 (24 publications).
 The Aberdeen Biomedical Imaging Centre (ABIC):
 ABIC is a combined research and clinical imaging unit which includes preclinical and clinical
 MRI, preclinical and clinical PET CT, cyclotron and radiochemistry laboratories. The Centre has
 close links with a number of the Centres in UoA1 including Translational Neuroscience,
 Cardiovascular and Diabetes (Dawson) and Cancer. Research foci include brain imaging in
 aging and dementia (Waiter, Murray), breast cancer imaging (He) and cardiomyopathy imaging
 (Dawson). The Fast Field-Cycling MRI, a next generation magnetic resonance imager
 instrument (Lurie) has been developed and is being evaluated in stroke diagnosis (Lurie,
 Mcleod). In 2019, the 3-Tesla MRI instrument originally installed in 2007 was upgraded, part of
 a GBP1,200,000 investment by the University and the Roland Sutton Academic Trust. NHS
 clinical use of the 3T instrument is shared, with research time devoted to School research. ABIC
 has been led for the majority of the review period by Murray-A., and now Waiter; their research
 has focused in part on brain imaging studies, some involving the Aberdeen birth cohorts from
 1936 and the 1950s, showing important differences in functional MRI during cognitive decline
 (PMID: 21859598) but including collaboration with other Centres such as Cancer, Arthritis and
 Musculoskeletal and Cardiovascular and Diabetes.




                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 C: UoA1 Strategic Direction

 Building on the strategy articulated in REF 2014, UoA1’s clear strategic objectives are focused
 on our patient communities and their healthcare priorities. Using close working partnership
 between the research Centres and the NHS, economic development agencies and with the life
 science industry cluster via the forthcoming GBP40,000,000 (ACRD)-funded BioHub incubator,
 we will deliver excellence in both challenge-led and fundamental research. We will take
 advantage of our embedded interdisciplinarity as a lever to realise healthcare and
 biotechnological impacts. We have a series of strategic objectives, articulated in the following
 sections, placed in the context of the REF2014 vision.

 Interdisciplinarity: In 2014, interdisciplinary systems biology was proposed as an area of
 strategic investment, and we have since invested in a number of inter-disciplinary appointments
 across the domain of UoA including: physicists (Broche, He, Hiscock, Lurie, Romano [UoA 12]
 and Waiter), engineers and chemists (Blana and Greig respectively) and health psychologists
 (Allan, den Daas, Dixon, Powell; underlined – appointed during the REF review period). Health
 psychology will play important roles for example in understanding dietary behaviours (Rowett
 Institute) and evolution of professional practice in healthcare staff. Our interdisciplinary ambition
 aligns with the recently formulated Aberdeen 2040 strategy, which identifies challenge-led,
 interdisciplinary research as central to our University’s ambitions. Its delivery is woven into the
 strategic vision for our UoA1 over the forthcoming REF period, with MacFarlane appointed as
 institutional Dean on Interdisciplinary Research and Impact. A retrospective analysis of the
 University’s 5-year inter-School publications (circa 1000 papers) reveals strong published links
 between the UoA1/School and multiple other Schools (Figure 2), representing a rich seam of
 interdisciplinary research already in place.
 Interdisciplinary research is frequently a driver of innovation to address stakeholder challenges,
 for example, Blana, who is applying engineering modelling principles to the challenge of
 prosthetic limb control and managing patient flow in hospitals. Equally, discovery science
 benefits from novel angles of disciplinary “attack”, for example, Hiscock’s work on the use of
 mathematical modelling of
 developmental biology process and
 Brown-A’s work on modelling of
 fungal stress responses. Our aim is
 therefore to assemble
 interdisciplinary teams through
 targeted expertise, matching and
 networking across the University. In
 achieving both challenge- and
 curiosity-led outcomes, we will be
 aided by our Research and
 Innovation unit’s Conversations On
 series and interdisciplinary sandpit
 events, which forge researcher
 collaborations across discipline
 boundaries. Our Head of School
 Bhattacharya-Si, is proactive in
 leading engagement with other
 disciplines, for instance, in hosting
 research exploration meetings with
 other Schools, which have led to
 new collaborations in areas including
 law and computing sciences. We will
 use the excellence of the established Centres as a fulcrum to deliver challenge-led impacts in
 the medical sciences.
 Development of our Centres: The 2014 strategic aim of building strength in our cognate
 research groupings, including fostering ECR talent, is exemplified by the model of our Centre for

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Medical Mycology, which capitalised on large programme grants, culminating in its MRC Centre
 award, with the development of a number of ECRs to academic independence (Rudkin, D.
 Wilson, Childers, Ballou). It is a testament to the environmental support provided by UoA1 for
 building research capacity.
 Strategic investment and growth of research in energy metabolism and obesity was planned in
 2014, and in the last review period the Rowett Institute was integrated into the Foresterhill
 Healthcare Campus with the building of a GBP40,000,000 human nutrition building (one of only
 two in the UK), and the Aberdeen Cardiovascular and Diabetes Centre was instituted. This
 combines IMS, IAHS researchers and clinicians with Rowett nutrition research expertise
 (Ramsay, Heisler, Gonzalez Sanchez, including new strategic investment posts Naneix,
 Sylantyev). These investments in the neurological control of dietary intake also cement existing
 close interactions between the Cardiovascular and Diabetes Centre and the Rowett Institute.
 Further development of neuroscience was a 2014 strategic objective and investment posts
 linking neurodevelopment with stem cell biology and psychiatric disease (Berg, Kang)
 developments in the FFC MRI (Lurie, Broche), and the research team associated with the
 TauRx spin-out, have each further strengthened Translational Neuroscience.
 We will use the new appointments made to further develop areas of investment such as cancer
 (part supported by the Friends of Anchor charity; GBP5,000,000; Speirs, Anderson), health
 psychology (Dixon, den Daas), translational neuroscience (Kang, Berg), and satiety and
 obesity regulation (Naneix, Sylantyev). Additionally, we will continue to seek advantage within
 the Centres from an integration of methodological expertise across the Institutes, using our
 applied health science expertise to evaluate healthcare innovation emerging from translational
 medicine.

 Delivering impact: We will pursue a number of parallel impact strategies, taking advantage of
 close partnership working with the NHS, a rich source of challenges requiring research solutions,
 supporting the pipeline of commercialisation ideas with the forthcoming BioHub incubator.
 Through close liaison working with our NHS partners, using the already-established NHS-
 University-Industry liaison group Triple Helix, we will promote tripartite partnerships focused on
 innovation-based solutions for specific NHS stakeholder challenges. These research projects
 are being presented to an interdisciplinary University community through Challenge-led
 Conversations On sandpit events.
 Nutritional research impacts: Following the GBP40,000,000 purpose new-build, planned in the
 REF 2014 strategic vision, the Rowett Institute is now fully integrated onto the Foresterhill Health
 Campus. This will be central to our strategy of integrating interdisciplinary nutrition science into
 challenge-led research, as articulated in the institution Aberdeen 2040 strategy. Our Scottish
 government-funded nutritional science RESAS programme in the Rowett Institute will be used to
 drive impacts in the food industry, public health policy and practice.
 Life sciences and drug development impacts: Supported by Delibegovic, as the Institutional
 Dean for Industrial Engagement in Research and Knowledge Transfer, we will build on our
 strengths in the biologic and drug development spin-outs (five during the assessment period) to
 achieve further impact in biotechnology and pharmaceuticals research. We will use mechanisms
 such as the University’s Challenge-led Conversations On sandpits, the School’s Kosterlitz
 Centre for Industrial Engagement, and Lead for Industrial liaison Wallace-H working with
 Research and Innovation (R&I) to establish industry-UoA1 networks. Those elements of impact
 strategy position us to catalyse spin-out activity and take advantage of the ACRD-funded BioHub
 incubator for life science companies, to be based on our Foresterhill Health Campus (UoA1
 colleagues Porter [Elasmogen CTO] and Cruickshank [NHS Director of R&D] are BioHub
 Board members; see Section 3).
 Interdisciplinarity as a fulcrum for challenge response: Our interdisciplinary research capacity will
 act as the foundation of our response to challenge-led research opportunities including those
 originating from our NHS partners and UN Sustainable Development Goals SDG2 (Zero Hunger)
 and SDG3 (Good health and wellbeing). The breadth of our expertise base puts us in a strong
 position to capitalise on these clinical and other interactions. We will also continue to foster NHS

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research linkages through strategic School research support for clinical colleagues undertaking
 NHS Research Scotland Fellowships (e.g., existing NRS Fellows NHS colleagues Masannat,
 Elsberger, Kaye).
 Capacity building: People are at the heart of our capacity building strategy, creating an
 environment that allows researchers to flourish at every career stage of their careers. At the PhD
 level, we will seek new doctoral training partnerships and collaborative training partnerships with
 industry, conscious this is likely to be through multi-Institution (DTP) or industry (CTP)
 collaboration. Central to this will be a vibrant training environment for PhD students within the
 School, led by Speirs (School PGR lead) and Nixon (UoA1) providing Institutional leadership as
 the Dean of the Post Graduate School.
 Our capacity building strategy also depends on a vibrant and supportive environment for our
 Post-doctoral Research Associates (PDRAs), further developed by our alignment with the Vitae
 Researcher Concordat, and the recommendations for positive change that will emerge from the
 University’s Research Culture working group (chair; Macfarlane), and externally, the Wellcome
 Trust review of research culture. The evolution of our ECR progression strategies will be aided
 by recommendations from the University’s Postdoctoral Research Committee (Chair:
 Delibegovic, UoA1), the Researcher Development Unit and our School’s NVision PDRA
 network.
 We will capitalise on our School’s/UoA1 new appointments, which have strengthened both our
 Centres and our interdisciplinary potential. A number of these appointments are at Lecturer
 level, and our probationary and mentorship structures, together with early years professional
 development support, articulated in Section 2, will be vital to support their development. Our
 human resource processes and practice must also be continually and self-critically examined,
 and our Unit’s equality and diversity record across all protected characteristics will be under
 constant review, for example, as we seek further School-wide Athena Swan accreditation and
 play our part in addressing the society-wide challenge of achieving racial equality.

 Open Research: We recognise the need to support our research ambitions with a full
 commitment to the principles and practice of Open Research. Our commitment to FAIR
 principles (Findability, Accessibility, Interoperability, and Reusability) underpins our research
 findings release strategies (Section 3E). We have membership of a UK-wide Research
 Reproducibility Network, are strong advocates of ORCiD registration for our researchers, and
 the University is a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration of Research Assessment (DORA)
 underscoring our commitment to fair assessment throughout a person’s career.

 Technology integration: In REF 2014, further development of the School's Core Facilities was
 planned, with a (now delivered) major investment in the Centre for Genome Enabled Biology and
 Medicine, the creation of an associated 3-person post-doctoral Bioinformatics Unit and
 investment in the Iain Fraser Cytometry Centre. We will use our Technology Hubs, the Centre
 for Health Data Science and its associated Data Safe Haven and the Core Facilities to catalyse
 cross-School research discovery. These assets will also be used to catalyse and support close
 interactions with companies in the new BioHub incubator, together growing the number of
 digital/health data science companies across the region.

 2B   2. People

 Introduction
 Our research strategy is underpinned by a strong commitment to the development of staff and
 students at every career stage, doctoral training, through Early Career Researcher (ECR) and to
 their continuing professional development as established academic staff. Our development
 programmes place equality and diversity at their heart.

 Postgraduate student training
 Doctoral training is managed centrally by a University-wide Postgraduate School (led by Nixon)
 that delivers harmonised training across the University. Our School’s PGR Lead (Speirs), and
 Institute-level PGR Leads direct doctoral training and recruitment. Over the review period, 337

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students have completed their PhD training and successfully graduated (average 48/year).
 Using standard UKRI reporting methodology, we achieved 4-year PhD programme completion
 rates of 85% and 98% for students starting in 2014 and 2015, respectively.
 PhD training over the review period has included 14 students funded by the Wellcome Trust
 Strategic Award and Centre for Medical Mycology (MRC funded). Among this cohort were six
 clinical PhD studentships, to foster the development of researcher clinicians. UoA1 PhD training
 is also underpinned by the 29 students funded over the review period by the BBSRC EastBio
 Doctoral Training programme, held jointly with the Universities of Dundee, Edinburgh and St
 Andrews. It delivers a strong 4-year programme of inter-University training events involving
 distributed networks of students and supervisors. The EastBio DTP, now with partnership
 industry funding and the 3rd largest BBSRC DTP in the UK, has received unbroken 3rd
 generation funding after successful renewals in 2015 and 2019, a testament to quality of training
 delivered.
 The University has improved the reach of its PGR programme with its Elphinstone Scholarship,
 a full international tuition fee waiver scheme that allows the best students from across the world
 access to our doctoral training (77 Elphinstone Scholars since 2014).
 At recruitment, prospective PhD students are interviewed by an independent panel. During their
 training, students select from a range of generic and research training courses. The students are
 assessed at nine months by a first-year report and viva, guiding a “progression to year 2”
 decision. It allows students to feedback to the panel on the quality of their supervision. They are
 assessed at 24 months by a research manuscript-style report. Twice a year a student organising
 committee delivers a highly successful, UoA1-wide, PGR Conference. There were 347 papers
 published over the review period where at least one of our PhD students was author (an average
 of 1/student), a testament to the quality of doctoral training provided in UoA1.

 Early career researcher (ECR) development pathways
 A supportive career development pathway for post-doctoral scientists is an important
 environment component. The University is a signatory of the Vitae Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers and has successfully gained the HR Excellence in
 Research Award in 2014, 2016 and 2018/19, demonstrating alignment with the European
 Charter for Researchers. Our delivery of the Vitae Concordat principles is led by the University’s
 Postdoctoral Committee, chaired by Delibegovic, UoA1, with representation from research staff
 (including UoA1), HR and the Researcher Development Unit. PDRAs can attend institutional
 Fellowship training workshops but can also proactively lead their own professional development
 events through a University small grant scheme, the Research Futures fund.
 Development of PDRA careers within UoA1 is also supported through local mentorship,
 delivered via the School’s NVision Researcher Development Network for PDRAs. NVision is
 directed by a former British Heart Foundation Fellow, Mutch (UoA1; now Reader), and the
 committee is convened by an experienced PDRA, Ashraf. PDRAs are encouraged to submit
 Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) applications and to engage with CPD leading to an
 Advance HE teaching qualification.
 For those PDRAs aiming at independent research careers, the School mentors development of
 applications to independent fellowship schemes via the University’s Grants Academy (see
 section 3A) Traffic Light scheme. Candidates’ CV and project proposals are reviewed by senior
 academics through in-person discussion. Following a “green light” they are assigned an
 application mentor, peer reviewer(s), a fellowship “buddy” and a personal application timetable.
 Those not receiving a green light are given detailed feedback to support resubmission. Peer
 review of the application is supported by practice interview sessions for those who are selected
 for funding body interview. This support process has been highly successful, for example,
 helping PDRAs secure Wellcome Trust ISSF 6-month Fellowship funding, and beyond that, a
 wide range of external independent fellowship funding, including Wellcome Trust Research
 Training and Clinical Research Training Fellowships, Sir Henry Dale Fellowship, MRC Career
 Development Fellowships, BBSRC Future Leaders Fellowship awards across all centres within
 the Unit.. Through the award to UoA1/the School of an MRC Discovery award, funding was

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 provided for an additional two Fellowships. Over a five-year period, 42 independent fellowship
 applications were submitted, of which 28 were from female applicants (62%), with an overall
 success rate of 19% (all funders, cf. typical BBSRC fellowship success rate of 8%).


 Clinical staff: research initiation and development
 We foster our translational medicine research portfolio by promoting the development of a
 clinical research pathway among our clinicians. This is achieved through the activities of the
 Aberdeen Clinical Academic Training and Development Pathway (ACAT: Fig. 3) directed by
 Myint (UoA1). ACAT oversees five stages of the development of clinical academics:
 [1] grass-roots, year 1 and 2 medical student research
 experiences through research scholarships (average
 20/year).
 [2] a summer Hot-start research internship at
 undergraduate years 3 or 4 (average 8/year), or
 alternatively, an intercalated undergraduate or Masters
 biomedical science degree, which includes a 10-week
 research project (average 44 MBChB students/year UG,
 4/year PGT intercalation)
 [3] Academic Foundation programme to help Foundation
 doctors develop research skills during F1/F2
 [4] the two-year Early Career Academic Programme
 (ECAP), promoting later-stage fellowship applications or
 MD/PhD studentships (average 6/year)
 [5] at Registrar level, the Scottish Clinical Research
 Excellence Development Scheme (SCREDS) Clinical
 Lecturer positions; these provide integrated academic
 research (0.2 FTE) and clinical (0.8 FTE) training. Over the
 review period an average of 12 SCREDS positions were in
 post in any given year, integrated into UoA1 research groups. SCREDS lecturers with a PhD or
 MD have been returned as UoA1 independent researchers. The School also provides 50 places
 per annum on the on-line BMJ Research to Publication course for early career clinicians.
 At consultant-level, the School actively mentors clinician applications for competitively-awarded
 NHR Research Scotland (NRS) Fellowships. In the last five years, a total of six NRS Fellowships
 have been awarded to NHS-Grampian clinicians working with UoA1 research groupings, for
 example, the Aberdeen Cancer Centre (clinicians Elsberger, Massanat) and the Centre for
 Women’s Health (Saraswat). The University recognises senior clinician research trajectories
 through the award of Honorary Clinical Chairs; (nine currently in NHS-Grampian).

 Established researcher training, mentoring and development
 Throughout their academic careers, staff require continuing professional development. Newly
 appointed staff undertake a 3-year probation programme, with optional fourth year, and are set
 staged probationary objectives, supported by a mentor and line manager. Staff with a lab-based
 research programme are usually helped to establish their research with a PhD studentship, start-
 up funding and technical support.
 Grant application support is delivered through the University-wide Grants Academy (delivered by
 Research and Innovation [R&I]). The Supporting Grant Applications (SGA) process begins with
 the applicant presenting an overview of the grant application to a panel of 3-4 colleagues with
 successful funding track records, with support from R&I on development impact plans. The
 resulting improved proposal is then submitted to peer reviewers for more detailed feedback. Sign
 off by the Head of Institute is required before submission. Where reviewer reports are provided
 by the funder, there is senior academic advice on rebuttals; an advisory debrief review takes
 place if funding is unsuccessful. The Grants Academy, with the School, has also funded 30


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 places on a grant writing mentoring course delivered by an external consultancy and developed
 internal Bootcamps for UKRI.
 Staff research commercialisation and other impact development is supported by the School, for
 example, by facilitated buyouts of an academic’s time by the spin-out company (e.g., Porter,
 UoA1, 50% buy-out by Elasmogen for a period of one year, ongoing) and by provision of
 incubator lab space and access to core facilities within the School, prior to life-science incubator
 tenancy (e.g., mycoBiologics, Rudkin, UoA1; Sirakoss, Gibson, UoA8). The School has also
 appointed Wallace-H as Industrial Engagement lead to coordinate the enhancement of research
 income from industry. Industrial engagement is frequently catalysed using Knowledge Transfer
 Partnership grants (North of Scotland KTP; currently four KTPs across UoA1) or PhD schemes
 such as Medical Research Scotland (five studentships over the review period) to cement links
 between a company and UoA1 research. Spin-out pathway “bootcamp” training events have
 been delivered to UoA1 staff seeking to commercialise research by Opportunity Northeast
 (ONE) in partnership with BioCity Newhouse, a national life-science incubator; since 2017, 38
 researchers have attended Introductory events, and 16 researchers have attended the
 Accelerator advanced events.
 Staff are supported and encouraged to assume external leadership and advisory roles. For
 example, Ritchie, (Chair of Health Informatics Research Strategy for Scotland and Scottish
 Government), Porter and Cruickshank (Opportunity North East (ACRD) boards), Black-C.
 (Covid-19 response epidemiology with NHS), Cruickshank (leadership of NHS-Grampian
 Covid-19 vaccination programme), Gow (President, Microbiology Society), Porter (Royal
 Society of Edinburgh) and Macfarlane (Steward of Scottish Parliament COVID-19 Citizens’ Panel)
 have all received release from School duties to facilitate external leadership roles. During the
 Covid-19 lockdowns, 15 UoA1 clinical academics were released from University duties to
 contribute to NHS Covid-19 response teams.
 Principal Investigators (PIs) undertake mandatory PhD supervision training courses, with top-up
 PhD training at regular career intervals. The School also runs annual residential PI professional
 development courses for early/mid-career staff, with senior academics acting as tutors and led
 by the University’s Centre for Academic Development and the Researcher Development Unit.
 Since 2014, five of these courses have been run with an average attendance of 20 staff. These
 courses have multiple early career training objectives, raising research standards and aspiration
 and fostering a sense of community across discipline boundaries and a large healthcare
 campus.
 At regular intervals throughout the review period, in partnership with an external training
 consultancy, the University has run its award-winning International Leadership Development
 Programme, involving managerial HEI training and fact-finding visits to a University overseas,
 which eight senior academic and professional services staff from UoA1 have so far attended.
 The professional development of female academics, and those identifying as female, is
 supported by the School’s annual funding of Aurora Higher Education Leadership Development
 Course attendance for a member of staff. A mentorship partnering service is available for any
 member of staff.
 Staff recruitment is driven by the requirement to invest further in areas of research excellence
 and by the University’s Aberdeen 2040 strategy and its Interdisciplinarity theme. It also aims to
 appoint staff with research interests that cross discipline boundaries, for example, Blana
 (engineering), Broche and Hiscock (physics). All lecturer and senior lecturer staff have been
 appointed on full-time Teaching and Scholarship contracts. Succession planning to manage staff
 demographic shifts over time is achieved through the network of Centre leads, Institute Directors
 and their Deputies.

 Staff equality and diversity policies
 All new University policies are subject to a full audit by the University’s Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion (EDI) Advisor and EDI group. At School level, all five of the component Institutes have
 secured Bronze Athena Swan awards and are now seeking advancement to Silver at School
 level. The School has an established (2015) financial support scheme “Family Award for

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Scientific Conferences” to provide childcare and caring responsibility support for staff wishing to
 attend conferences.
 The EDI framework aligns closely with the Inclusion pillar of the University’s Aberdeen 2040
 strategy, with clear Key Performance Indicators. As part of this strategic priority, the University is
 a signatory of the Advance HE’s Race Equality Charter, aiming to improve the representation,
 progression and success of minority ethnic staff and students. Our School has also signed the
 British Medical Association Charter on Racial Harassment. Delivery of charter commitments is
 driven by a joint NHS and University Race Equality Task Force and by the University EDI
 Committee, including student members. A Race Equality Strategy Group steers the development
 of a University Race Equality Strategy, including an action plan to respond to the
 recommendations of Equality and Human Rights Commission report “Tackling Racial
 Harassment: Universities Challenged”. The School’s four Race Equality Champions enable race
 equality issues to be surfaced by any colleague. Our 19% BMEO PDRA proportion within UoA1
 is higher than the HEI sector average (15%), although the need for significant further progress is
 acknowledged.
 All roles within the School are advertised to all staff, and appointments are made after panel
 interviews to meet equality and diversity guidelines. As a result, with respect to gender in our
 senior research roles, 11/21 research programme leads are female, as are 6/13 Centre leads,
 and 5/9 of the Directors and Deputies of the three research-intensive Institutes. Within the UoA1
 postdoctoral researcher community, the proportion of female (f) staff (65%) is significantly higher
 than broader University and HEI sector data (46% and 54%, respectively). All staff involved in
 external recruitment processes must have undertaken equality training. Staff promotion
 processes are subject to Equality Impact Assessments (EIAs).
 The University has formalised 1-year sabbatical and research mini-break schemes and staff are
 encouraged to apply for research leave support. For example, Munro (f; 2019) and Hoppler (m;
 2020) both secured Leverhulme Research Leave Fellowships, supported by the School, which
 arranged reassignment of their teaching and administrative duties. Sabbatical applications are
 welcomed from full-time and part-time staff at all career stages including ECRs but particularly
 from those returning from maternity or long-term sick leave. Priority will also be given to those
 whose research was interrupted or impacted by Covid-19. Schools are asked to carry out EIAs
 of staff awarded such leave.
 Staff returning from parental leave, or leave for other caring responsibilities, or after long-term ill
 health are asked to attend a return meeting with their line manager. Our Wellcome Trust
 Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF, see Section 3A) included a Returners Scheme that
 supports individuals following parental leave or ill health. Long-term ill health effects are
 managed with the help of occupational or reasonable adjustments, for example phased return,
 altered start and/or finish times or a period of homeworking. Parental leave returnees are
 supported with the Parents Network, a dedicated Parents Handbook; a network of School
 Parents Champions offers experienced support to new parents. The University is also committed
 to making a range of adjustments for staff with disabilities including, for example, flexible working
 and workplace adjustments.
 Wellbeing, illness, flexible leave policies
 The University has a range of policies and practices in place to support the wellbeing of staff. It
 is committed to constructively examine proposals from staff seeking part-time or part-year
 working, job sharing or flexible working hours. It has an annual leave purchase scheme, allowing
 up to two week’s additional leave to be secured. The University has an open, established mentor
 scheme. There are Wellbeing Coordinators and Mental Health champions based in each School.
 The University runs a Workplace Dignity Network to provide support to staff in cases of
 bullying/harassment, stress, work relationships, work/life balance or mental health issues. The
 University also runs mental health first-aid courses for staff, mental health awareness training
 courses and provides access to The Big White Wall mental health support service. The
 University actively supports Inclusion Week with campus-wide events highlighting inclusion
 issues.


                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3B   3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 4B   3A: Income
 Our success in delivering an average        Figure 4: Funding Sources
 of GBP25,600,000 in income per
 year from a diversity of sources (Fig.                Non-EU                        BEIS Research
 4) results from a breadth of research                   8%                          Councils/NIHR/
 focus on pure biomedical science,                                                       CSO
 translational medicine and industrial               EU                                   18%
 impact-centred research, including a                6%
 5-year GBP37,500,000 RESAS grant
 from Scottish Government to deliver
 the Rowett nutritional science                   UK Government,                   Charities
 programme. The Institute of Applied             industry and other                 25%
 Health Science (IAHS) and Rowett                   UK sources
 Institute are ideally positioned to                    43%
 make transformative impacts in
 health care and food policy/strategy,
 respectively.
 Fundamental research across all five institutes is able to target UKRI and medical charity
 funding. These funding foci are supported by our University’s Research and Innovation section,
 which delivers our Grants Academy framework, supporting both early grant ideas testing and
 later-stage peer review.
 A partnership of R&I and School provides strong support for grant applications; four dedicated
 R&I staff support the staff member’s bid development, grant application and costing processes.
 Two additional R&I Business Officers work with UoA1 staff on strategic targeting of funding
 opportunities. They also help preparation for staff targeting personal fellowships including
 interview practice with mock panels of senior staff. This support has been instrumental in
 prestigious junior fellowship successes (eg., D’Agostino, Brand, Adam; Table 1) and senior
 Wellcome investigator awards (Gow, Brown-G.). R&I support within UoA1 has also been pivotal
 for major grant success, for example, a Wellcome Trust Strategic Award for Medical Mycology
 and Fungal Immunology (GBP5,100,000). UoA1 also secured a Wellcome Trust Institutional
 Strategic Support Fund (ISSF) (GBP2,100,000 with GBP2,200,000 of matched institutional
 support), an MRC Centre for Medical Mycology award (GBP2,800,000 with GBP2,300,000
 institutional support) and a GBP37,500,000 grant from Scottish Government to deliver the
 Rowett nutritional science programme.

 In partnership with R&I, the School delivers the Supporting Grant Applications (SGA) framework,
 a mentorship process in which an applicant receives early-stage feedback on their application
 from a panel of experienced academic staff. Late-stage proposals are then subject to peer
 review by senior colleagues with established funding records. To rapidly respond to the short-
 deadline Covid-19 research funding schemes of 2020, the SGA support processes were
 streamlined, facilitating successful applications to the Scottish Government Chief Scientist Office
 Rapid Research in Covid-19 RARC programme (GBP970,000 across six projects).
 The Grants Academy coordinates assignment of reviewers with particular expertise, for
 example, with national grant review panel experience. The Grants Academy also manages
 internal funding opportunities to pump-prime research and knowledge exchange grants -
 including the Global Challenges Research Fund Internal Pump Priming Fund (GCRF-IPPF); the
 Wellcome Trust ISSF; the Core Facilities Voucher Scheme; the Research Enhancement
 Scheme; and the Impact and Knowledge Exchange Fund, each designed to catalyse research
 funding and impact success. Priming support for GCRF is aimed at UoA1’s focus on United
 Nations Sustainable Development Goals SDG2 (Zero Hunger) and SDG3 (Good Health and
 Wellbeing), with successful awards to Russell (BBSRC GCRF; GBP450,000; moringa as a
 sustainable food source in Malawi; SDG2) and to Haggarty (an MRC GCRF Hub



                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 GBP18,200,000/GBP900,000 UoA1 share; childhood nutrition in LMI countries, Action Against
 Stunting Hub; SDG3).
 The Grants Academy also supports industrial collaboration and applications for knowledge
 transfer funding, coordinating applications for Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) and
 Innovate UK applications. It provides support for spin-out company launch, venture capital
 funding, patenting and licensing. The University has invested into the Venture Capital Epidarex
 Fund (III) providing a further source of investment for UoA1 and life science companies (see
 REF5a), for example, UoA1 spin-out Sirakoss receiving investment from Epidarex.


 3B: Investment
 Strategic investments during the review period (section 1C) have enhanced existing areas of
 strength and further developed our interdisciplinarity within our cross-cutting Centres, appointing
 three physicists and engineers during the review period. These core positions were
 complemented by PDRA appointments; an MRC Discovery award scheme (GBP450,000) was
 used to support obesity and satiety neuroscience, (two Fellowships) and pump-priming PDRAs
 to develop capacity in the Rowett Institute in energy metabolism and neuroscience. The
 Wellcome Trust ISSF (GBP2,100,000 with GBP2,200,000 of matched institutional support) was
 used for strategic investment (including PDRAs) within the strategic areas of (i) Infection,
 Inflammation and Immunity (ii) the molecular basis of obesity (iii) applied health science and (iv)
 regenerative medicine, particularly within arthritis and joint disease, leveraging GBP7,500,000 of
 new funding in those areas.

 3C: Infrastructure and equipment, research facilities
 Physical Infrastructure;
 (i) As part of the School’s and University’s strategic plan at the last REF, the University invested
     GBP28,000,000 of the GBP40,000,000 total cost of a state-of-the-art nutritional sciences
     building to centrally locate the Rowett on the Foresterhill Health Campus. The new building
     houses 160 researchers and incorporates a 7-bedroom residential Human Nutrition Unit
     (HNU) for dietary intervention studies, an exercise facility, a body composition measurement
     suite and a DEXA scanner.
 (ii) Now with finalised plans and secured funds, building of a GBP40,000,000, 6400 m2, 300-
      person life-science incubator (Biohub) is underway, to be located adjacent to the School on
      the University’s Foresterhill Health Campus.
 (iii) Having secured funding of GBP270,000 from the Jules Thorne Trust for the next generation
       Fast Field-Cycling MRI, instrument construction is underway. The University has now
       committed GBP1,600,000 to complete instrument design, assembly and installation in a new
       clinical FFC facility in a building contiguous with the hospital to allow patient clinical trials.
 (iv) Research space for clinical and other academics, including the new University appointment
     clinical oncology Chair, will be available in the GBP233,000,000 Baird Family Hospital and
     Anchor Cancer Centre, both being built on the Foresterhill Health Campus for opening in
     2023.
 Technology Hubs: Biomedical bench science is underpinned by a range of world-class
 analytical core facilities in our Technology Hubs, overseen by a University Infrastructure
 Committee, chaired by Nixon. Each hub has service delivery led by a highly experienced core
 facility manager and an assigned academic lead to interface with academic users. Equipment
 upgrade and renewal is delivered through a combination of external grant funding and
 institutional support. The Technology Hubs deliver access to both academic and external
 industrial users. Hubs such as cytometry, genomics, proteomics and imaging, underpinned by
 excellence in animal facilities, are a key element of our strategy to deliver biomedical laboratory
 research excellence across our Centres and the Rowett Institute.



                                                                                                  Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Hubs include Cytometry, which supports research in immunology, microbiology and
 cancer, central to our strategic ambitions. It has available a range of four cytometers and a BD
 Influx cytometric cell sorter, a BioPlex 200 for multiplex bead analysis and an Image Stream for
 single cell image cytometry (one of only two in Scotland).
 Genomics research is served by The Centre for Genome Enabled Biology and Medicine with
 next-generation sequencers (Illumina Miseq, Illumina NextSeq500, Ion Torrent Proton
 sequencers, Oxford Nanopore for long read sequencing) and a dedicated single-cell lab with 10x
 Genomics Chromium system for single-cell RNAseq.
 The Microscopy and Histology technology hub delivers confocal laser scanning microscopy;
 LSM 880 with Airyscan (Wellcome Trust Multi-User Equipment Grant led by Erskine
 [GBP330,000 with GPB85,000 institutional investment]), LSM170 confocal and a spinning disk,
 UltraVIEW 3D live cell imaging system, fluorescent microscopes, transmission and scanning
 electron microscopy plus Skyscan/Nikon Computed Tomography systems.
 The Proteomics and Mass Spectrometry Analytical units have available a quadrupole-
 Orbitrap Thermo Scientific Q Exactive tandem mass spectrometry system (GBP415,000
 Wellcome Trust grant led by Brown-A., with GBP100,000 institutional investment), mass
 spectrometer for gas stable isotope ratio measurements, MALDI Imaging Mass Spectrometry,
 Biacore surface plasmon resonance and an automated sample digestion unit (GBP50,000 and
 GBP84,000 institutional investment, respectively).
 Other key facilities supporting research across our integrative Centres include the Scottish
 Biologics Facility, providing Antibody and peptide library screening services and the Medical
 Research Facility, a rodent, zebrafish and Xenopus model organism facility located on the
 Foresterhill Health Campus. Human nutrition intervention research is carried out in the Human
 Nutrition Unit; a 7-bed en-suite research facility.
 Finally, supporting our complex research structures, (i) the University Information Technology
 Services provide IT support across UoA1, covering data management, information governance,
 research instrumentation and a High Performance Computing cluster, Maxwell, giving
 researchers access to 1240 CPU cores and 12TB of RAM and (ii) working closely with R&I, the
 School provides administrative support for research and PGRs, a vital facilitator of our research
 activity.

 Collections and Archives; The School has access to a number of world-class archives, tissue
 collections and birth cohorts. The Aberdeen Children of the 1950s (ACONF; births from 1950-
 1956) birth cohort has allowed us to follow 12,150 people as they grow and age, for example,
 using MRI imaging of cognitive resilience and decline. CHDS is custodian of the Aberdeen
 Maternity Neonatal Databank.
 The University of Aberdeen and NHS Grampian runs an ISO27001:2013-accredited Grampian
 Data Safe Haven (DaSH; academic leads Black-C. and Anderson). Safe Havens provide a
 governance framework for the protected use of pseudonymised NHS patient data in research.
 Aberdeen’s Safe Haven is one of only four in Scotland and since 2015, is a Charter for Safe
 Havens in Scotland signatory. The School hosts a number of important tissue banks including
 the Chief Scientist Office-NHS funded Grampian Biorepository, a tissue bank with built-in ethics
 approval (accredited by Health Improvement Scotland).

 3D: Research governance
 The University’s overarching research governance structure ensures that our research meets
 the highest ethical standards. We comply with the five commitments set out in the Universities
 UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity, seeking the highest standards of excellence,
 honesty, integrity, rigour, transparency, accountability, showing care and respect for research
 participants and fostering both disciplinary and interdisciplinary approaches. Our delivery of
 good research governance and integrity complies with the UK Research Integrity Office (UKRIO)



                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 standards and codes. Research integrity training is compulsory for all researchers, including
 PGR students.
 The University’s Research Policy Committee (RPC), chaired by the Vice Principal for Research,
 has overarching responsibility for research ethics and governance arrangements; it reports to
 University Court, Senate and to the University’s SMT. The RPC receives reports from University
 Ethics Review Boards (ERB). Two of these operate within UoA1, the Life Sciences and Medicine
 Research ERB and the Rowett Institute ERB (for nutritional intervention studies), both reviewing
 studies not requiring approval from the NHS’ North of Scotland Research Ethics Service.
 The School employs a Research Governance Manager and Officers to help researchers to
 obtain sponsorship for their clinical studies. The Governance team advise researchers on study
 design and submission of applications to regulatory bodies. They oversee the ongoing
 management of the clinical studies from study initiation to archiving. All clinical studies are
 subject to monitoring and audit by the NHS Quality Assurance team in collaboration with
 Research Governance. Research Governance also work closely with Research and Innovation
 to discuss contractual requirements and comment on funding applications. Much of the School’s
 research is partnered with colleagues in the NHS, these collaborations are facilitated by a Joint
 Working Protocol and co-sponsorship agreements. The healthcare campus is thus a single
 governance environment with robust joint working arrangements in place.

 Research involving animals is governed institutionally by the Advisory Group to the
 Establishment Licence Holder and the Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Body, which carries
 out robust ethical reviews on all research proposals submitted to the Home Office as part of a
 project licence application. The School’s Biological Safety Committee oversees and licences
 genetically modified organisms research.

 The University has mechanisms to deal with any alleged shortfall in research governance
 practice and research misconduct. In this event, Stage 1 preliminary investigations by the School
 Director of Research may lead to a Stage 2 process, involving a Dean for Research convening a
 four-person committee that includes the Vice-Principal for Research. The research governance
 framework identifies the Head of School as arbiter over disputes concerning authorship.


 3E: Open Research, reproducibility and integrity
 The University, and School/UoA1, recognise the importance of open research, incorporating the
 FAIR principles (Findability, Accessibility, Interoperability and Reusability), which are being
 applied to Open Access, Data and Platforms/Tools. The University Library, Special Collections
 and Museums Directorate leads advocacy of Open Research. The Library runs the Aberdeen
 University Research Archive (AURA), our open access repository that receives all publications,
 where permitted by the publisher - 1,141 UoA1 research publications have been lodged since
 2014. UoA1 researchers take advantage of early manuscript release on the pre-print repository
 BioRxiv (26 released in 2019/20). Supporting FAIR data accessibility and reusability, 39 datasets
 have also been uploaded into the AURA repository since 2014 and another 40 genetic and
 proteomic datasets released via open access databases such as the Gene Expression Omnibus
 and PRIDE (proteomics).
 At the School level, we are embedding the principles of open research and integrity at the level
 of PGR training, using research reproducibility as one of the themes of a recent PGR
 Symposium run by our PGR committee and at the PDRA level, through the activities of our
 PDRA-led Research Reproducibility Group, (chaired by Butler; the School/UoA2) that leads
 Aberdeen’s membership of a UK-wide Research Reproducibility Network. Finally, the University
 Library strongly advocates ORCiD registration for unique researcher identification (Open
 Researcher and Contributor ID); 79% of UoA1 staff have ORCiD identifiers.

 3F: Investment leading to impact:



                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School/UoA1 catalyses industrial collaboration using the new Kosterlitz Centre for Industrial
 Engagement and has appointed three professorial staff to drive industrial engagement; (i)
 Delibegovic, working across the University as Dean for Industrial Engagement in Research and
 Knowledge Exchange and (ii) Wallace-H and Porter to drive industrial engagement across the
 School by actively identifying new industrial partners working in partnership with R&I’s
 Knowledge Exchange and Impact team. There is a University-level competitive pump-priming
 fund (Research and Innovation Grants Academy) for early-stage commercial activities with the
 goal of catalysing industrial engagement and initiating company spin-out. The University is also
 an investor in the Epidarex venture capital Fund II and Fund III, specifically aimed at bridging the
 funding gap for early-stage companies in Scotland. The University is a partner of the private
 economic development agency Opportunity North-East (ONE), a delivery partner for ACRD. The
 life-science and biotechnology sector is one of four foci of the ACRD, and the delivery of a
 GBP40,000,000, 6400 m2, 300-person life-science incubator, BioHub, is underway. This
 incubator will be located adjacent to the School on the joint University-NHS Foresterhill Health
 Campus. The Technology Hubs of the School will be available for the companies in the BioHub
 and regional industry partners. The School/UoA1 staff (Porter; CTO, Elasmogen Ltd) and
 School/NHS (Cruickshank; NHS R&D Director) are centrally involved in planning the delivery of
 the BioHub. Our DaSH team and the Safe Haven provides expertise and collaborative
 opportunities through the Aberdeen-based ONE Tech Hub, promoting the growth of the digital
 technology sector within the region.
 The University’s R&I unit has the role of fostering research leading to impact, and there are two
 dedicated R&I business officers assigned to the School, an Impact Officer and a
 Commercialisation Manager. The latter person leads academics and their research discoveries
 through intellectual property protection, commercialisation, licensing, spin-out and eventually
 securing venture capital support to enable transition to full commercial spin-out.

 Engagement with diverse audiences
 Our UoA1 staff’s responsibility to communicate their research to diverse audiences is supported
 by the University’s Public Engagement Researcher Unit (PERU), which organises a series of
 Café Med (monthly from Jan to May, Foresterhill campus) and Café Scientifique (monthly, Feb-
 Nov) events, normally allowing informal face-to-face contact with the public for evening
 presentations, and latterly, due to Covid restrictions, Café Connect podcasts. Public and
 stakeholder engagement is supported by the University’s Communications section, which
 publishes an average of 70 articles per year featuring School research discoveries and impacts.
 A significant number of UoA1 staff contribute to the University’s annual May Festival, which
 includes a diverse range of lay science events. Historically, it has brought 4000 people onto
 campus.

 5B   4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4A: Collaboration
 Overview and evidence of collaborative success:
      UoA1 staff participate in two Scottish Funding Council research pooling initiatives. These
      collaboration-stimulating networks drive strategic HEI investment and critical mass acquisition.
      UoA1 staff have played lead roles in two such pools; Scottish Life Science Alliance (SULSA; 11
      Scottish Universities; Mccaffery [Steering Committee], Delibegovic, Greig, Erskine, McEwan
      [Theme lead]) and the Scottish Imaging Network (SINAPSE; seven Scottish universities;
      Murray-A. [Director], Waiter [both Steering Committee]). SINAPSE partners, including
      Aberdeen UoA1 staff, led the establishment of the Industrial Centre for Artificial Intelligence
      Research in Digital Diagnostics (iCAIRD), a GBP10,000,000 15-partner collaboration involving
      industry (Philips and Canon Medical). School investment in these pools allows access to their
      PDRA career development and industry-collaborative funding schemes. Staff in UoA1 secured
      seven SULSA and SINAPSE awards to support ECR research-exchanges.
      Our School is integrated into the collaborative BBSRC PhD Doctoral Training Partnership
      EastBio led by Connolly (UoA5) and Miller. With now third-generation funding, it creates a

                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborative DTP with Dundee, Edinburgh, St. Andrews, Stirling and the Industrial
 Biotechnology Innovation Centre (IBioIC; industry-led CTP training). Each of the PhD projects
 funded by EastBio is advantaged at the shortlisting stage by partner-University co-supervision
 arrangements, promoting supervisory team collaboration throughout the 4-year PhD.
 During the review period Brown-A, Fowler, Gibson, Lurie, Miller, Munro, N’Dow, Riedel,
 Walker, Wilson, and Zanda (UoA5) secured EU collaborative awards totalling GBP9,260,000,
 (underlining; Innovative Training Awards (ITN) PhD training). This EU funding included
 GBP1,030,000 for the development of FFC MRI (Lurie) as part of the IdentIFY network. The
 University’s R&I unit and its European Business Officers support UoA1 staff making EU funding
 applications. Cruickshank has acted as WHO consultant on HPV immunisation programmes in
 Eastern Europe. GCRF funding has built new international collaborations; Haggarty and Walker
 are investigating the effects of malnutrition on child growth stunting and its life-long health
 consequences (GBP970,000; India, Indonesia, Senegal); Russell is investigating the moringa
 tree as a food staple in nutrient-deprived areas of Africa (GBP460,000; Malawi). McEwan holds
 a multidisciplinary MRC-DPFS award (GBP1,100,000) including Rotterdam Erasmus Medical
 Centre.
 We are strongly connected with UK and EU research networks; de Roos is the CEO of the
 European Nutrigenomics Organisation (NuGO), a network of 28 Universities. Macfarlane is
 Deputy Director of the MRC-Versus Arthritis National Centre of Excellence for Musculoskeletal
 Health and Work (hub; Univ. of Southampton), a 17-University collaboration funded to 2024.
 Likewise, de Bari is Deputy Director of the GBP5,000,000 Versus Arthritis Tissue Engineering &
 Regenerative Therapies Centre at the University of Cambridge involving four other university
 partners. Speirs has established two international cancer research networks, the Male Breast
 Cancer Consortium and SEARCHbreast.

 4B: Contribution to the research base

 We make a wide range of significant contributions to the research base, the funding-research-
 publication pathway and to academic leadership in our respective fields as highlights show:

 a.        Research funding and publication processes
      i.    Journal Editors-in-Chief and Deputy Editors-in-Chief; Bhattacharya-Si; Human
            Reproduction Open (Editor-in-Chief), Barrett Journal of Neuroendocrinology (Deputy)
            Heisler, Molecular Metabolism (Deputy) Mercer, Journal of Neuroendocrinology (Editor-
            in-Chief); Munro, FEMS Yeast Research (Deputy); Wallace-H., Toxicology Research
            (Editor-in-Chief), Deputy Chair, Biochemical Journal (2009-2018). Galley is Director and
            Trustee of the British Journal of Anaesthesia (elected in 2018).
            A further 18 oA1 staff are either Associate Editors, Executive Editors or Reviews Editors
            across 16 journals. A further 36 staff are members of Editorial Boards, with 45% of UoA1
            staff having journal editorship roles.
  ii.       Grant review panels (Chair roles and major funders): Adam, CRUK Early Diagnosis
            Expert Scientific Review; Bhattacharya-Si, Panel Member UKRI Expanding Excellence
            in England (E3) Panel (2018-); Counsell, Wellcome Trust, Fellowships Implementation
            Committee, Arthritis Research UK (-2016); de Bari, NIHR i4i Challenge Awards Panel,
            MRC Regenerative Medicine Research Committee, UK (-2019), EU Horizon 2020
            Research Funding Programme, Clinical Research on Regenerative Medicine;
            Delibegovic, British Heart Foundation Project Grants Committee, Diabetes UK Co-
            Chair, Main Research Grants Committee, Diabetes UK Chair, Early Career Grants
            committee, member PhD studentship committee; Galley, MRC Clinical Research
            Training Fellowships; Haggarty, BBSRC Chair, Bioscience for Health Strategy Panel;
            Hoppler, BBSRC Response Mode Committee C and UKRI-BBSRC CTP2 Assessment
            Panel; Lurie, Royal Society Challenge Grants Panel; Macfarlane, Versus Arthritis Vice
            Chair of Health grant committee; Maclennan, ESRC Peer Review College, Breast
            Cancer Now grants committee; McEwan, Chief Scientist Office, Scottish Government,

                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
              Translational Clinical Studies Research Committee; Murray-A. MRC CASE studentships
              (2016-17). Overall,16 UoA1 staff (12%) have membership of grant reviewing panels.
  iii.        Advisory bodies (major roles): Wallace-H., European Food Standards Agency, Vice-
              chair of CONTAM Panel, member of Panel on Food Contact Materials, Enzymes and
              Processing Aids, Contaminants in the Food Chain HMAC; Fowler, Panel on Food
              Additives and Flavourings; Ritchie, Expert witness to Public Audit and Post Legislation
              Committee of the Scottish Parliament (PAPLs) – 2018; Macfarlane, member of the
              National Institute of Clinical Excellence (NICE) Low Back Pain Guideline Development
              Group (2014-16); Galley, Member of the National Research Ethics Advisory Panel
              (2015-2019).

 b.         Academic leadership and prizes
      i.      Academic prizes (significant examples); Heisler, 2018 Outstanding Scientific
              Achievement Award, American Diabetes Association, 2018; Erskine, Suffrage Science
              (Women in Science) Award by MRC Clinical Sciences Centre; Lurie, Institute of Physics
              and Engineering in Medicine Academic Gold Medal (2017); Macfarlane, Alexander
              Morison medal by the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh, 2017; Murray-G.,
              Doniach Medal Lecture of the Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland, 2019. A
              further four researchers were awarded academic prizes from other bodies.
      ii.     Professional bodies and learned societies; elected memberships; Heisler and
              Ritchie [2016]; Hannaford [2017]; Murray-A. [2018] - Elected Fellows of the Royal
              Society of Edinburgh; Porter, elected Vice-President (Business) of the Royal Society of
              Edinburgh, now Chair of the RSE Economy and Enterprise Committee; Delibegovic,
              elected to Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) Young Academy of Scotland; Murray-G.
              and Parson were appointed as Regius Chairs of Pathology and Anatomy, respectively;
              Heisler [2015], Vargesson [2019], elected Fellow of the Society of Biology;
              Cruickshank, President-Elect of European Federation of Colposcopy (2019-2022);
              Dawson, Vice-Chair, and Chair elect of the European Society of Cardiology Myocardial
              Function Working Group; Forget, President of the Belgian Pain Society; Galley,
              President of the Anaesthetic Research Society; Murray-G., Pathological Society of Great
              Britain & Ireland -Treasurer; Parson, President Elect Anatomical Society, 2018-2019;
              Speirs, British Association for Cancer Research-Secretary. In total, 25 members of UoA1
              staff were elected to learned society office or other significant roles.
  iii.         Academic leadership: UoA1 staff demonstrate leadership via a wide diversity of
               examples such as Major conference organisation; Bewick, Physiology 2019; Erskine,
               Axon 2015, 2017; Heisler, Integrated Control [.…] by Hindbrain Circuits, Cold Spring
               Harbor 2019; Keystone Conference, Denmark, 2017; Platt, Alzheimer’s UK Annual
               Conference 2017). Other academic leadership includes; Counsell, Chair of Data
               Monitoring Committee for multicentre trial (PDCOMM)); Morgan-P., Quadram Institute
               Bioscience, Trustee and Board member (2017-) Scottish Food Commission Member
               (2015-2018), Strategic Advisory Board for Scottish Government Rural Affairs and
               Environment (2016-17), MRC and NIHR Review of Nutrition and Human Health
               Research (2016), MRC-led UK Nutrition Research Partnership for health and disease (UK
               NRP) panel member (2018-); Platt, Scientific Advisor and Grant Advisory Board
               member, Alzheimer’s Research UK (ARUK, 2013-2019); Murray-A., Director of the
               Scotland-wide, research pooling organisation SINAPSE; Bhattacharya-Si, Chair,
               International Federation of Obstetrics and Gynaecology (FIGO) Reproductive Medicine
               Committee (2015-16), Chair Trial Steering /Data Monitoring Committee for NIHR trials
               FEMME, PRISM, ANODE, EMPOWER trials; Speirs, Trustee, British Association for
               Cancer Research (2018- ), NCRI Molecular Biomarkers Advisory Group (2015-17) .

 b.         Co-operation and collaborative arrangements for PGR training
            Staff across UoA1 contribute to PGR training at Aberdeen and in collaborative networks
            delivering post-graduate training. Miller is our representative on the BBSRC EastBio DTP
            management board and a member of the EU ITN SynCrop; Delibegovic delivers the

                                                                                                Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Aberdeen elements of EU ITN MoGlyNet; Louis leads the School interactions with the
       University’s Leverhulme DTP in the Sustainable Production of Chemicals and Materials;
       Lurie is Aberdeen lead for EPSRC-funded CDT on UK Magnetic Resonance Basic
       Technology; Munro led the Aberdeen elements of EU OPATHY ITN (2015-19), and now the
       EU ITN FunHoMic network (2019-23); Parson led Aberdeen’s element of a Motor Neurone
       Disease doctoral training network (Scotland CSO; 12 studentships, 2015-18); and Platt is
       co-grant holder of an Alzheimer’s Society Doctoral Training Centre (2015-2020) led by
       Edinburgh.

 4C: Contribution to the economy and society

 a.    Collaborative relationships with key partners and stakeholders to deliver impact:
 i.    NHS and International healthcare systems: UoA1 staff work in close NHS partnership,
       co-located on the Foresterhill Health Campus. Underpinning the relationship is a University-
       NHS Clinical Research Board and Steering Group, a joint Research Governance unit and a
       Triple Helix liaison group linking the School, NHS Grampian Innovation and industry. The
       University and NHS-Grampian have a Data Sharing Agreement, underpinning operation of
       the School’s Data Safe Haven (a protected IT space for clinical data governance). In
       addition to our 33 clinical academics, the School has appointed clinical SCREDS lecturers
       (12 in post in 2020) providing a 3-year 0.2 FTE research internship alongside clinical duties.
       Cruickshank, a clinical academic Chair within the School/UoA1, is NHS Director of
       Research and Development. NRS Fellowships secured by surgeons Elsberger and
       Massanat, intensive care consultant Kaye, and gynaecologists Maheshwari and Saraswat
       provide links with School researchers Lurie, Broche, Speirs, Bhattacharya-Si and
       Ramsay, C. (UoA2).
       Nationally and internationally, UoA1 clinical research informs policy via extensive impacts
       on (i) NICE guidelines (e.g., Fertility problems: assessment and treatment [CG156: 2017],
       Heavy menstrual bleeding [NG88: 2018], Endometriosis [NG73: 2017], Ectopic pregnancy
       and miscarriage [NG126: 2019], obesity and weight loss (CG189: 2014)) and (ii) practice,
       through clinical trials (for example Abdel-Fatah leads a portfolio of NIHR-funded
       GBP5,800,000 clinical trials in stress urinary incontinence and catheterisation).
       Bhattacharya-Si was NHS Research Scotland Clinical Research Champion for Women’s
       Health and Childbearing Scotland (2015-18). N’Dow has a key leadership role within the
       European Association of Urology (EAU; Chair of its Guidelines Office Board; 2014-on). In
       this role he has driven the adoption of EAU urology guidelines internationally, from seven
       countries aligned in 2014, to now more than 75. Bhattacharya-Si’s leadership in clinical
       fertility research has secured international agreement of key priorities for infertility research
       [PMID: 33252677]. Overall, our clinical field leadership, and the close partnership with the
       NHS, has led directly to a range of national and international health-care impacts including
       those described in our impact submission.
 ii.   Government: The Rowett Institute is a key member of the Scottish government’s umbrella
       organisation Scottish Environment, Food and Agriculture Research Institutes (SEFARI),
       linking Scottish Government research providers and in receipt of GBP37,500,000 Scottish
       Government funding for nutritional science research. Haggarty represents the Rowett on
       the Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition (SACN), providing diet and health advice to
       the UK Department of Health. Morgan-P. was a member of the Scottish Food Commission
       until 2018. Porter was selected for the Scottish Funding Council’s Research and
       Knowledge Exchange Committee, which has Scottish Government and economic
       development agency representations. The Chief Scientist for Health benefits from
       Bhattacharya-Si’s expertise on his Advisory Group and Ritchie for public health advice,
       extended during the Covid pandemic.
iii.   Industry: Johnstone’s nutritional science collaborative links with the retailer M&S has led
       to the development of the chain’s Balanced For You food range. Forbes, working in an
       interdisciplinary collaboration with physicist Strachan (UoA18), has carried out genomics-led
       epidemiology of food-borne pathogens. Forbes’ strong links with the British Poultry Council

                                                                                                 Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      and Food Standards Agency directly led to impact on food safety regulations. Rowett
      Institute researchers (Louis, Walker, Scott) have collaborative interactions with industry
      (Danone [GBP380,000]; Christian Hansen [GBP330,000] Mars). ECR Rudkin has secured
      a Scottish Enterprise-funded High Growth Spinout Programme and Royal Society of
      Edinburgh Enterprise Fellowship (GBP4,000,000) to advance a pipeline of targeted
      antibodies within spin-out mycoBiologics. Wischik and Harrington lead the University spin-
      out TauRX, securing over USD300,000,000 of venture capital to pursue development
      therapies for Alzheimer’s Disease and other dementias. Rowett Institute research into
      Crohn’s Disease therapies using live microbiome established spin-out GT Biologics.
      Following investment from 4D-Pharma, the company floated on the AIM stock index for
      GBP16,500,000 in 2014 and has a current market capitalisation value of GBP160,000,000.
      Gibson is CSO for University spin-out Sirakoss, developing bone repair scaffolds for
      surgery, acquired by OssDsign for GBP8,400,000 in 2020. Porter is Chief Technology
      Officer (CTO) for University spin-out Elasmogen, developing shark antibody derivatives for
      cancer and rheumatoid arthritis treatment, which has secured GBP3,000,000 venture
      capital investment. The development of impact from all these collaborative interactions is
      supported by the University’s R&I unit.
      In addition to Porter’s role as Board Director and CTO for Elasmogen, he holds a number of
      other non-executive Board positions across Scottish biotechnology. Porter (UoA1) and
      Cruickshank (UoA1 and NHS Director of Research and Development) are on the ONE Life
      Sciences board leading the delivery of the ACRD BioHub incubator, to be sited on the
      Foresterhill Health Campus. Together, the impact of UoA1’s industrial engagement, and its
      historical and ongoing spin-out company generation, is leading the regional economic
      development strategy for building a life science industry in the north-east of Scotland.

 c.   Relationships with users leading to impact
      UoA1 staff have established a network of interactions with research beneficiaries and
      patient groups that have led to national and international impact both: N’Dow, working with
      the Pan-African Urological Surgeons’ Association (PAUSA), established Horizons, a charity
      working to improve the quality of health care in Gambia; Wilson P. led the development of a
      first response kit for medical emergencies using cloud technology, now spun out through
      MIME Technologies (2016) (ICS UoA11); Martin K. is Aberdeen lead for Walk With Ease
      UK, an arthritis study exploring a walking programme for sufferers in Versus Arthritis’ Living
      Well Programme. Our Impact Case Studies are built on close interactions with beneficiaries,
      promoting understanding of the underlying challenge. Keenan produced key impacts on the
      counselling of young persons from families with Huntington’s Disease through extensive
      Huntington’s Association support group interactions; Vargesson developed links with
      support groups, parents and children affected by birth defects associated with Primodos
      pregnancy tests, with significant impact on a subsequent medicines safety inquiry. Our
      research programmes are supported by active Patient Public Interaction (PPI) groups that
      enable researchers to learn from the patient experience as they tailor grant proposal
      objectives; externally, Maclennan is an invited member of the European Association of
      Urology’s new patient advocacy group.

 c.   Research responses to the Covid-19 pandemic
 Exemplifying our Unit’s research responsiveness in the face of an acute healthcare challenge,
 we have responded to rapidly changing NHS priorities and secured significant Covid-19 funding.
 Porter is working with spin-out Elasmogen to develop point-of-care antibody-based diagnostic
 kits. Collaborating with University spin-out Vertebrate Antibodies Delibegovic is developing high
 throughput antibody assays (Chief Scientist Office: CSO-funded). Mutch is working with NHS-
 Grampian (NHS-G) clinicians to understand aberrant blood clotting in Covid patients with Acute
 Respiratory Distress Syndrome (Medical Research Scotland [MRS]). Vickers is working
 alongside NHS-G clinicians to understand the protective effect of antibodies against other
 coronaviruses (MRS). Black-C., working with NHS-G Public Health, aimed to minimise impacts
 on vulnerable patients; her public health expertise has been pivotal, allowing epidemiological
 data, supported by the Data Safe Haven and CHDS, to guide strategies protecting highly

                                                                                            Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 vulnerable individuals at the height of the pandemic through monitoring and adapting Covid and
 non-Covid clinical care pathways. Blana is modelling real-time Covid-19 patient flow within the
 hospital by integrating real-time surveillance data (NHS-G funded). Dixon’s (health psychology)
 study of the prevalence of work-related stress in critical care nurses (NIHR Recovery &
 Learning) looks at the long-term impact of Covid-19. Macfarlane, Jones and Hollick (Versus
 Arthritis-funded) are following-up registry and trial participants to quantify the change in mental
 and physical health of patients with inflammatory arthritis and chronic pain during lockdown.
 Finally, Martin, Powell and Murchie are seeking to understand the pandemic effects on the
 physical activity, loneliness and help-seeking behaviour of the elderly (CSO). Bhattacharya-Si’s
 research has shown how IVF delivery should be prioritised post-Covid-19 (PMID: 33226080).
 This portfolio clearly shows how the diversity of UoA1 health science research expertise can
 rapidly combine to mount a multifaceted response to a health emergency.




                                                                                             Page 26
