Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Chester

 Unit of Assessment: 20 Social Work and Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Overview:
Social Work and Social Policy (SWSP) research at the University of Chester (UOC) includes an
ongoing commitment to further strengthening meaningful group and theme-based collaborations
between pedagogues in different Departments and Faculties: including, principally, the Faculties of
Social Science (FSS), Health and Social Care (FHSC), and Education and Children Services
(FECS). Faculties and Departments are situated across distinct geographical locations, comprising,
for example, a base for social science (including sociology, criminology and law) at Chester, social
work at University Centre Warrington, and nursing at Riverside. The development of research
initiatives, collaborations, impact and dissemination strategies has included work relating to specific
Centres and Forums: including, for example, the Centre for Adoption Support (CAS), Centre for
Ageing and Mental Health (CAMH), Centre for Research and Education in Psychological Trauma
(CREPT) and the Forum for Research into Equality and Diversity (FRED).

The research policy since 2014 has included ongoing research group meetings comprised of
professionals and pedagogues in disciplines which include social work, criminology, sociology,
counselling, and psychotherapy; alongside input from law, education, and nursing. Inter-professional
research groups established in 2014 have developed over the past six years around three inter-
related themes: social work and integrative care; crime, harm and justice; and sustainable
communities. The research strategy continues to strengthen disciplinary links, networks, and forms
of collaboration (including externally and internationally) to initiate more funded research projects. A
key focus across these strategic themes include a cross-disciplinary commitment to promoting social
justice and equity. This incorporates the capacity to support local community-based needs and
responsibilities, achieve a better understanding and response to national and international social
and political issues, improve methodological rigour, knowledge-based research and exchange,
innovation and professional praxis.

Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Unit Context:
UOC rigorously selects, educates, and supplies social workers, psychological therapists,
psychological trauma practitioners, nurses and teachers to community-based service providers in
the North West of England and beyond. This impact includes the promotion of critically appraised
and reflexive practices, which influence service delivery within local authorities, the NHS, schools,
NGOs and independent or third-sector organisations. We seek also to influence local and national
governments and, where possible, related global policy agendas. For example, in 2018, Carey was
selected externally to become part of an Expert Focus Group, which included research active staff
from the University of Birmingham and the British Association of Social Work, to develop and
produce the first Capabilities Statement for Social Workers in England who Work with Older People.
Harlow’s involvement with University Centre Warrington-based CAS, Alex Timpson Trust, and the
Rees Centre at the University of Oxford, has promoted the critically reflexive use of attachment
theory by social workers and other welfare professionals involved in child-safeguarding work (case
study).

Research strategy and objectives
The research strategy for UoA20 is designed to fit with a wider UOC REF strategy (2014-21)
dedicated to supporting sustainability and the environment; health and wellbeing; culture and society;
and the regional economy. We have sought to strengthen academic coherence to this unit, as well
as ensure research vigour and sustainability. In relation, UoA20 reflects an analytical and reflexive
social science and professional tradition, which aims to address inequalities and social exclusion,

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
while promoting human rights, wellbeing and social justice across the region, nationally, and
internationally.

We have sought to meet these broad aims through six core objectives:

1. Promoting knowledge and evidence-informed research which is participative and reflects
changing social, political, and cultural needs.
2. Maintaining a staff development programme, which permits staff at all levels to pursue their
research interests and fully realise their capabilities and interests, as well as collaborate with external
institutions. This has included maintaining research-friendly workload systems, supportive
management, mentoring, and a fair and inclusive promotions system that acknowledges
achievements, engagement, and impact.
3. Creating a recruitment policy, which privileges research potential, achievements and
capabilities for the nurturing of applied expertise.
4. Provide support for external funding opportunities.
5. Provide support for postgraduate students, including through regular supervision, annual
reviews, training, mentoring, and so forth.
6. Extending public engagement, including through activities such as public lectures, co-
production, and research-informed teaching guided by stakeholders.

Among other achievements, our two impact case studies (Harlow, Davies) epitomise our
commitment to community-based research with equity and social inclusion as key objectives. We
have sought also to increase our external research funding (total of £121,369 external research and
consultancy funding), have had a significant increase in the numbers of PGR (including doctoral)
students, with 18 doctoral completions, and continue to develop international networks.

We have, for example, increased doctoral completions from 3 in REF2014 to 18 in this REF cycle,
representing an increase of 600%. Annual average completion rates have moved from 0.64 to 3.
There has been a significant growth in research activity alongside the numbers of research active
staff submitted for this unit: moving from 5 to 21 staff in total submitted for SWSP between 2014 and
2021. Contributions to the advancement of practice and policy debates at international, national, and
regional levels have grown. For example, collaborations have been established with international
Universities (e.g. Pace University; Tsinghua University; McMaster University) and external
organisations, service users and professional organisations (e.g. British Association of Counselling
and Psychotherapy; British Association of Social Work; United Nations).

Research centres have formed and grown as part of the strategy. In 2013, the Centre for Ageing and
Mental Health (CAMH) was established to respond to the challenges, needs and opportunities of an
ageing society. This has since provided funded research, international consultancy and education,
with an aim of promoting innovation and effectiveness in health and social care services for older
people. Ridgeway and Carey have been involved in the multi-disciplinary research at CAMH which,
with research outputs, has included the teaching of social workers and nurses by centre members.
Reeves was a member of the steering group for the inter-disciplinary and cross-organisational scope
of practice in training and education (SCoPEd) project, which has set out to map training
competencies for the psychological therapies and establish new national standards for training. This
three-way initiative is led by the British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy, The United
Kingdom Council for Psychotherapy, and the British Psychoanalytic Council.

Research themes:
Currently, UoA20 coalesces around three cross-cutting themes the development of which have been
central to meeting our objectives. Each are represented by a research group:

    (i)    Social Work and Integrative Care: this groups aims to better understand service user
           and patient needs, responsibilities, and improve professional praxis within health and
           social care services; alongside associate professional provision within law and
           counselling. Reeves, Harlow, Carey and Buck have drawn from their past experiences
           as practicing social workers to analyse applied themes, such as professional identity,

                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           ethics, inequality, inclusion, and therapeutic praxis. In the Journal of Social Work, Journal
           of Social Work Practice, etc., Harlow has provided original research around safeguarding
           that has informed social work practice in relation to the organisation, management, and
           delivery of services to children and their families. Carey’s published work in Ageing and
           Society, Ethics and Social Welfare, and so on, focuses on ageing, care giving, disability
           and ethics, which can include the social and political impact of welfare service
           marketisation, conditionality and consumer-centred participation. Reeves has focused on
           understanding and preventing suicide for clients during psychological therapy. This has
           influenced national curriculum developments in collaborating with, and responding to,
           clients at risk of suicide and self-injury. This also led to the development of core training
           for all UK Relate counsellors, and influenced the Ethical Framework for the Counselling
           Professions (BACP, 2019), and the standards set for members of the British Association
           for Counselling and Psychotherapy in the UK.

           The international research of Keeling has analysed the complex impact of domestic
           violence upon women and men, while White has made an impact with her research on
           foodbanks when collaborating with local stakeholders to explore social exclusion. By
           setting up the West Cheshire Food Bank Research and Advisory Team with local
           residents, White and others have used their research evidence to campaign and
           influence local and national policies on food-related needs and poverty.

   (ii)    Crime, Harm and Justice: This group analyses the impact of crime, its interpretation
           and criminal justice policy and praxis. Horsley, Taylor, Buck, and White have sought to
           co-ordinate a critical discourse around themes, such as risk, agnotology, inequality and
           identity. For example, Taylor has compiled internationally based research on veterans’
           experiences of the criminal justice system in journals such as Social Policy and Society,
           coupled with original research on intermediate partner violence; White has explored the
           impact of neo-liberalism on the management of crime. Horsley has developed ultra-
           realist theory in his examination of debt, class and crime; Buck and Taylor have staked
           out an innovative bridge between criminology and social work, and Buck’s research
           interests and collaborations with other Universities (for example, University of
           Nottingham, Liverpool John Moore’s University, University of Toronto) have included an
           analysis of user-informed criminal justice, social work service provision and the role of
           the voluntary sector in criminal justice.

   (iii)   Sustainable Communities: this group examines community, space, and environmental
           sustainability. Cox has cultivated work on mobilities/cycling in different international
           communities and how this can inform both researchers and policy makers about
           sustainable transport; Francis has engaged in global research including with regard
           making a difference about transforming war zones into social spaces for peace and
           reconciliation, thus focusing on cohesion in communities; Bennett and Wood have
           analysed belonging and place, in particular relating to spatial, class, race, gender and
           intergenerational inequalities across communities. Fernandez has provided international
           research on environmental policy and analysed the implications across European
           member states; Carey, Powell and Taylor have explored the impact of neoliberal policies
           on ageing populations in relation to social welfare, identity and belonging.

The three themes reflect current research strengths, collaborations and expertise but are ‘live’ insofar
as they influence recruitment, the setting of research targets, and other strategy such as attempts to
secure external funding and engage with stakeholders. Through various mechanisms, groups
update one another of ongoing research activities (e.g. newsletter, seminar series, meetings etc.),
research opportunities, and endeavour to create spaces for developing collaborations, including
externally. Active professoriate groups to support and mentor staff in the FSS and FHSC meet
regularly to develop strategy and discuss progress. The UoC has also established a responsible use
of metrics, while focusing on the quality of the output rather than the impact factor of the journal. This
is replicated in the UOC Code of Practice (2019) for equality and transparency and maintains that


                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
outputs are open to all users. All outputs of our research are made available on ChesterRep at the
University for impact, transparency, and openness.

As part of the strategical goals and infrastructure, regular meetings, and discussions (including
online) have led to new directions for research. For example, methodologically Ridgway has utilised
inventive visual, participative, and arts-based research methods to interpret her research findings
into social work students’ perceptions of ageing. Gant has co-produced and analysed with her former
social work students the potential relevance of autoethnography in fields of welfare practice and
social care. Critical perspectives have also emerged to analyse largely underexplored topics. Gubi
has looked at the impact of the turn to atheism for some members of the clergy in London, while
Francis has examined the costs of human trafficking in South Africa. Bennett has challenged the
apparent safe, static or essentialist idealism of ‘Englishness’, while White has examined sexuality
and identity for young women in Yorkshire, including in relation to neoliberal policy agendas. Powell
has explored through Foucauldian analysis forms of conflict in Northern Ireland, while Carey has
looked at the often-corrosive effect of Universal Credit and related conditionality-based welfare
reforms upon lone mothers, and how these might be affecting aspects of social work practice with
children and families.

Several activities have enabled the research strategy to continue to develop: for example, twice
monthly research meetings where research ideas and current projects are shared and potential
collaborations identified; research seminars to showcase the work of research active colleagues; the
growth of practitioner-focused conferences; public lectures; workshops with external speakers to
promote research and publications; research ‘away days’; and between 2015 to 2019, QR funding
to support research activities has included £40,000 for the Department of Social and Political Science
(DSPS), and £33,000 for social work staff within the Department of Social Work and Inter-
Professional Education (SWIPE).

A funding strategy to guide decision-making about access to internal QR funding gave priority to
supporting submittable staff to the REF. However, given our starting point our funding decisions have
been influenced by our aspirations to increase research activity in the long term. To this end we have
provided funds on a competitive basis. In keeping with the UOC’s research strategy, it is also
intended that the three research themes will fortify and increase their external funding of research
over the next 10 years by a minimum of 20%; to broaden the range and status of external funders
sought and to increase the numbers of staff who are successful in applications. To support this, a
specific member of staff was appointed in 2020 to support research grant writing, and workshops
are held regularly on writing research proposals and funding applications.

Future strategy:
It is intended for the next REF that the numbers of the three theme members of the UoA submitted
will increase by at least a third. We plan to expand and consolidate international collaborations,
engagement, outputs, post-graduate provision and impact. This will be achieved with our partners
through the co-creation of knowledge and collaborative research, whilst engaging meaningfully with
marginalised communities and groups for the public good through economic, social, cultural and
environmental impact. There are two key issues that we wish to develop in the impact plan:

   i.      Strategic Partnerships - We will identify and establish critical relationships with external
           partners in government, the public and third or independent sectors, alongside industry
           to inform and develop impact and promote innovation from our research. This includes
           internationally and globally and includes linking and shaping local provisions and needs
           identified in research to global trends and policy.
   ii.     Public Engagement - We aim to increase engagement with the public throughout the
           research process, such as through co-production and especially by gaining insight into
           user, carer, patient and student needs and disseminating results for the benefit of civic
           society. A new marketing and communications programme will be delivered to
           communicate the UoA20 research and impact opportunities and results internally and
           externally through events, email communications, digital social media and on-line
           promotion.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

In addition, seven further strategic ambitions persist which it is hoped will develop both research
capacity and impact further:

   i.      Research clusters – Although cross-disciplinary research themes and groups have
           progressed, further thematic alignment work is progressing, especially around essential
           areas such as equity and sustainability, ageing, at-risk populations and safeguarding.
           These will further promote inter-professional and participative projects with specific aims
           that strengthen the University wide evidence-base around social work, health, wellbeing,
           criminology and policy.

   ii.     Recruitment and staff development – Alongside focused recruitment in sectors such
           as counselling and law, we are seeking to concentrate more attention on recruiting
           research active staff to build capacity while developing staff not engaged in research. For
           example, staff in social work and social and political science are completing Professional
           Doctorates or PhDs, while others are involved in research projects elsewhere in the
           FHSC. Initiatives, such as the increase in the availability of mentoring, training, and
           regular presentations of research - as well as the organisation of seminars and
           conferences, have encouraged staff to engage more with research activities. Within
           Social and Political Science, regular Research in Practice workshops are again held for
           postgraduate students and staff.

   iii.    Targets – We continue to set research targets for staff, such as relating to publications
           in journals or grant bids, including through annual reviews and during mentoring. We
           intend to further build on such collaborations, including cross-disciplinary and Faculty
           attainments geared to the specific needs of Unit20 for staff.

   iv.     Post-graduate publications and dissemination – We encourage PG students to
           publish their research in journals and disseminate in other forms, such as at conferences,
           to maximise impact. The aim is to support the dissemination of new forms of research
           and encourage greater impact, collaboration and co-production, such as between
           supervisors and students or among post-graduate student and research participants.

   v.      Methodological dynamism and rigour – We aim to further promote methodological
           dynamism and rigour, including by recognising that the complexity of modern society
           demands innovation and risk-taking in research. For example, within the HSC Faculty,
           attempts have been made to increase teaching and use of mixed and quantitative
           methodologies and expertise. Moreover, new methodological approaches, such as
           Ridgeway’s use of drawing and art to collect data have been used, and we will seek to
           expand such approaches where appropriate. Other staff have co-authored articles with
           PG students (e.g. Gant, Carey)

   vi.     Grant bids – Further grant applications for each Faculty and department will be made in
           respective areas of expertise, including in collaboration with other staff across
           Departments and Faculties. Additional support is now provided for this, such as through
           the Chester Grant Support Initiative.

Teaching-led research – We are strengthening further the links between research, knowledge
transfer and teaching. The specific research outcomes of staff remain central to teaching, for
example, Buxton, Gant, Harlow and Reeves have closely linked their learning and teaching
strategies with the latest and best evidence for the psychological therapies on the counselling,
psychotherapy, psychological trauma and social work programmes.




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

Context and change
Research active staff play an active role in research groups that cut across disciplines and closely
aligned Departments and Faculties. For example, as a social worker Buck has been involved in the
Crime and Criminal Justice group, that includes colleagues from Sociology and Criminology. Carey
(social worker) has previously been involved with the Centre for Ageing and Mental Health within
allied health and nursing, as well as the Sustainable Communities research group comprising staff
such as Cox, Bennett and Davies from sociology, criminology and law. Reeves (social worker and
counsellor), Ridgway (nurse), and previously Powell (sociologist) and Keeling (nurse), have been
part of the Social Work and Integrative Care group. Staff comprise a mix of mostly experienced and
mid-career researchers, with some recent early career additions (e.g., Buck).

Invariably there have been some changes in staff in Departments such as Social and Political
Science (DSPS) and SWIPE in the FHSC. Pratesi submitted into REF 2014 has left UOC. Carey
was appointed as Professor of Adult Social Work in 2014, and Harlow’s position as full time
Professor of Social Work since 2010 became part-time from 2016. Gubi and Cox have all been
promoted to Professor within FSS, while Ridgway has been promoted to Associate Professor (and
Associate Dean) within the FHSC and Reeves to Associate Professor in SPS. We have also been
enabled to recruit ECRs on permanent contracts (i.e., White).

Staffing strategy and development
In line with UoC policy, Newly Appointed Staff (NAS) are given reduced teaching and administrative
loads in their first year and priority with internal research support funds. Institutional and
departmental staff induction ensures such NAS, and Early Career Researchers (ECRs), are alerted
to any pathway opportunities and support infrastructure available to cement their career progression.
NAS and ECRs are also mentored by senior staff and encouraged to participate in collaborative
projects. Professional development is built in via research planning and formal and informal
structures including, for example, ongoing training, mentoring and regular supervision. For example,
ethics, research methodology, PG supervision training sessions are delivered. Departmental or
specialist Centre-based staff also provide ongoing advice, support and mentoring on internal and
external funding opportunities.

A significant amount of the University’s QR funding has been allocated to Unit 20 staff (total £73,000),
who have each since published in peer-reviewed journals from related findings. Managed targets for
research grant applications and co-ordinated research activity are set each year. Moreover, the
University has established a central Research Development Fund which has been used to support
individual staff and early career researchers who demonstrate research excellence to build capacity.
Since the 2014 submission, there has been a more than four-fold increase in staff (from 5 to 21)
submitted to UoA20. The University Research Strategy thus reinforces the importance of research
and impact and sets out the context in which units such as UoA20 plan their own activities.

Mentorship for NAS and other research staff is provided by senior staff and Professors. Professional
development is encouraged through research guidance, planning, training, annual appraisals, and
embedded informal mentoring. In the DSPS, the weekly research seminar provides opportunities for
members to showcase their work, provide good examples of methodological dynamism and impact
to colleagues, and discuss work in progress, as well as for external visitors to present on issues
pertaining to the interests of the theme. For example, Emeritus Professor Colin Lago from the
University of Sheffield presented his work around working with inclusion and diversity in the
psychological therapies. Workshops have also been held to encourage non-research active
colleagues to explore research ideas and develop research proposals, and for everybody to identify
and apply for external funding. DSPS also runs writing for publication workshops at away days with
a Professoriate providing group sessions on academic writing at which postgraduate students are
encouraged to attend. The two Professors in the DSPS provide informal mentoring for colleagues
with less or no research experience. An array of guest speakers presents within the FSS, FHSC and



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
FECS as part of the same strategy, and a mentoring and writing scheme has also been established.
The University supplements any mentoring with its own mentoring training programme.

Additionally, the provision of a new series of public lectures, such as in the psychological therapies
that draw on staff expertise and clinical experience, has provided an opportunity for the University to
actively engage professional and lay members of the local community in a research culture. These
co-produced meetings are held several times throughout the academic year and are committed to a
collaborative and inclusive culture. We have planned to extend these further to promote greater
impact.

As part of the University research strategy, the Faculty of Social Science (FSS) has a Faculty
Research Event which takes place every year and which is led by Prof Ros Bramwell, the Associate
Dean of FSS - Research. This brings different staff and PGR researchers from distinct disciplines
together to collaborate and provide holistic research to contemporary policy and community issues.
An Information and Enhancement Officer facilitates a training and development programme for PGR
students, including the organisation of key events such as a PGR symposium and writing retreat.
Coupled with this, there is online and face to face supervision and Chairing a Viva examination
training, among other examples, that staff are expected to attend.

The FHSC thoroughly reviews the progress of all doctoral and professional doctorate students, and
sets clear guidelines, targets, and training alongside meticulous supervisory reviews for students
(full-time and part-time). This has proved invaluable for many students to help them to plan, update
and focus their research aims and objectives, methodology, and writing skills more adeptly, thus
preventing complacency about progress. Moreover, there is now compulsory online training for
doctoral supervisors, and update sessions to be completed at least once every three years. There
is an increased expectation placed on students to attend taught training sessions on research, and
to publish in peer reviewed journals prior to submission of their thesis, ideally with the support of an
experienced supervisor. As with FSS, FHSC continues with monthly lunchtime doctoral research
seminars throughout semesters, including those from social work, social care, nursing or integrative
themes, such as around ageing or safeguarding. We have also introduced monthly lunchtime
masterclasses for doctoral students.

In SPS, there is a Research Group meeting on the first Saturday of every month, where all doctoral
students across the PhD and Professional Doctorate programmes in the psychological therapies are
invited to attend to discuss research development and impact, for peer support and learning. These
are facilitated by research-active members of staff. Over the last 4 years the University now has a
research community of around 40 doctoral students in the psychological therapies; this is one of the
largest groups for the discipline in UK universities.

The FHSC organises a two-day research conference in the Faculty every year, so to present ongoing
postgraduate research alongside external speakers from the NHS and Social Work. This is intended
to again promote a buoyant research culture within the Faculty. Following these and other reforms,
student progress has become more transparent to everyone, allowing faster interventions to support
and manage student achievements.

                2014         2015         2016         2017         2018         2019         Total
 DProf           0.1                        1                                     2.4          3.5
 PhD                          1.25                      3.1          1.6          3.6          9.55
 Total           0.1          1.25          1           3.1          1.6           6          13.05

Equality and diversity
Underpinning the recruitment and staffing strategy are the university’s equal opportunities policies
which promote fairness in recruitment, career progression and promotion, equality and diversity for
staff and students, and works to ensure that all members of the University community treat one
another with respect and dignity. UoC maintains coherent and rigorous anti-discriminatory policies
including clear departmental and UoC procedures around potential discrimination, harassment and
safeguarding. There is an annual Diversity Festival each year, a Race Equality Challenge and
                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Chester Pride group, staff members who act as Equality champions, an Equality forum and co-
ordinated minority staff networks. Core programmes, such as social work, sociology, the
psychological therapies and law strongly emphasise the importance of diversity and structurally
informed inclusion and equity as part of teaching, knowledge transfer activities and research. The
University is an Athena Swan Bronze award holder and holds the Navjo Charter mark and has
previously participated in the Stonewall Equality Index. All departments are seeking to increase the
proportion of staff from minority or disadvantaged groups, whether on the basis of disability, ethnicity,
class, gender, age or sexuality.

Numerous unit staff are directly involved in equity-related research. For example, Davies’s social
justice orientated research within the applied discipline of law has focused upon issues of equality
and diversity, including around employment, gender segregation, and barriers to engagement with
research affecting women, minority ethnic or other disadvantaged or underrepresented groups.
Bennett’s research has centred on inequalities, belonging and place, including around 'contested
communities', and the role of communities of place, identity and interest and their impact on everyday
life chances. Numerous other staff through their research have drawn attention to and given voice
to excluded groups (e.g. Gant, Reeves, Keeling, Buck, Carey).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income generation, research funding and strategy
The UoA and University recognise the importance of external income generation to enhance and
support all research. Our total of £121,369 external funding in this window has been received from
EU government bodies (6%); UK central government bodies/local authorities/ health and hospital
authorities (33%); UK industry, commerce and public corporations (23%); and UK-based charities
(open competitive process) (38%). To increase funding our strategy includes offering in-depth
personal support; access to regular and focused (internally and externally provided) training and
workshops around bid writing; updated knowledge of funding opportunities; improvement of our
research infrastructure through the development of research centres; and use of seed-corn income
to instigate all researchers’ future career trajectories and potential to generate further income. The
Chester Grant Support Initiative (initially trialled in Unit 31) involves workshops, internal and external
peer review and mentoring and will, beyond 2021, be extended to other Units for the next REF. We
also effectively manage and strategically target internal funding resources competitively, including
with expert panels scrutinising applications so to maximise the impact of any funding. For example,
QR seed-corn funding from 2014 onwards has sought to pump prime innovative projects and
encourage future team-based research bids, including in association with external researchers. An
internal peer review system also considers pre-submitted applications for external funding. Most of
the focus of seed-corn funding and wider research income generation has also been to support the
initiatives, groups and themes discussed earlier.

University research support regularly provides information on funding bodies whose strategic
priorities align with staff expertise areas. Internal resources (e.g. through funding and advice) have
been employed to allow researchers to target and move from seeking smaller to larger grants, fuse
the generation of income with our wider impact strategy and encourage collaboration, including
internationally. Some examples of funded research projects include:

Research funding examples
Harlow (case study) was awarded £18,420 in 2019 by the Martin James Foundation to help develop
a Centre for Alternative Care for children in need. Harlow was awarded a further £18,424 by the
Alex Timpson Trust as part of the ‘Looking after looked after children: Attachment and Trauma
Project’. Other grants have included £17,600 for the creation and operation of the Alex Timpson
Trust, and £18,000 as part of an evaluation of the post-placement Adoption Support Service at the
Centre for Adoption Support. White was awarded £13,500 in 2019 from Feeding Britain as part of
the Big Lottery Feeding Britain Community Food Hub Evaluation. This third sector organisation aims
‘to prevent or relieve poverty’ and helps people to ‘alleviate hunger caused by the lack of



                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
opportunities or resources to obtain sufficient food’. This project is analysing two local community
food hubs, and among other aims, is seeking to see if these hubs could be replicated in other areas.

Francis was awarded £10,000 through two Global Challenges Research Fund Grants of £5,000
each. These relate to Phase 1 and 2 as primary investigator for ‘The political economy of conflict in
the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Central African Republic: challenges to a sustainable
peace’. Carey was awarded £11,000 though competitive funding provided by the Cheshire and
Merseyside Social Work Teaching Partnership. As PI this income is being used alongside two
internal seed corn grants of £5,000 each to further examine the potential role of adult social workers
in their support of older people experiencing loneliness and isolation in the Cheshire West and
Chester region. These projects have led to articles published in journals such as Ageing and Society
and International Social Work as well as influenced conference presentations and other outputs.

Although often small-scale, this UoA has now established a consistent record of securing external
funding to support its research activities. We continue to draw upon expertise within and beyond the
University to enhance further our portfolio of externally awarded research funds. We recognise the
need to look for new and bigger funding opportunities when available, and the focus of our future
external funding strategy includes targeting funders who share this aim: for example, the Nuffield
Foundation, GRCE, Leverhulme Trust, British Academy and ESRC. To access such funding, the
strategic aim is to further strengthen institutional links, as well as making continued attempts to
increase specialist training, mentoring, increase other networks, partnerships and collaborations,
improve the quality of outputs and efficacy of impact, and so on.

The Research and Knowledge Transfer Office (RKTO), a central University service, contributes to
UoA themed workshops on research income generation and REF policy. The University Research
Strategy identifies the centrality of a research informed curriculum and locates research as a core
activity of Faculties and Departments alongside teaching excellence. This embeds research within
the appraisal system which, in turn, facilitates the identification of staffs’ research needs and is
embedded in the Staff Development Strategy at departmental and university level; this is reflected
in work-loading processes called WAMS. Since 2015, the University has made QR funding available
through university-wide competitive calls for applications for impact case studies, conference
attendance, research team bids, and research dissemination. Unit members have had a measure of
success in the university-wide calls which are match-funded alongside staff development resources
within departments.

Other facilities:
University Library Services (ULS) has libraries across nine geographical locations with new subject
specific libraries for three Faculties. Within FSS and the FHSC, for example, they offer dedicated
subject collections and subject specialist library teams, numerous study spaces, including areas for
silent, quiet and group study, alongside PCs and Mac work desks. Research is subsequently
supported through the provision of high-quality library environments and facilities, appropriate print
and electronic information resources, and support from highly qualified and professional staff. As
well as a library website for researchers and professional librarians - which includes a Research
Support team and Librarian – support is provided to researchers searching and retrieving information
from online databases and who use the Internet to communicate ideas and research outputs via
social media tools. Alongside books, journals, monographs, e-books and e-journals, the Broomhead
library at University Centre Warrington offers specialist subject teams, bookable multi-media rooms,
and a 24/7 computer study area. Research activities are also supported with latest editions of SPSS
and NVivo, and experienced computer support is on offer. University investment in upgrading the
computer facilities at the University has resulted in increasingly user-friendly data analysis
programmes and user support.

Regards governance and mechanisms for reporting all research there is a Research Ethics Advisory
Board and Faculty Research Ethics Committees, alongside bespoke audit processes and regular
working groups. In the FHSC, for example, the FREC meets each month to consider all projects and
subsequent applications by staff, students and participants, and carefully analyses and offers


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
support and advice to applicants around key principles including gaining informed consent,
minimising risk, and so forth.




 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Research-informed teaching, collaborations, and dissemination
Research-informed or led and co-produced teaching for future and post-qualified social workers,
counsellors, teachers, nurses, and other staff remains central to this Unit and is now embedded
across Faculties. Enhancing effective research networks, partnerships and collaborations also
remains a key ongoing part to promote impact, including internationally. As detailed in sections 1
and 2, there are established and growing inter-Departmental and Faculty research groups, and links
with external and international institutions and colleagues continue to strengthen. We are especially
keen to strengthen our international influence, including by linking local findings and related
provisions to the Global regarding policy development and practice. As example of international
networking through dissemination, Powell and Taylor (2016) presented their research on the
extension of working lives and implications of private pension schemes for older people (for example
at the LSE in October, 2016). They have undertaken additional work on ageing and veterans (for
example, for the International Network for Critical Gerontology, McMaster University, September
2017).

Research impact examples
In fitting with UoA20’s aim to provide research which has meaningful benefits for marginalised groups
(social, cultural, and economic), a long tradition of participative research with non-academic
stakeholders is established. Moreover, symbiotic ties with local communities, local authorities,
schools, third and independent sector organisations and health-care trusts continue to strengthen.
Examples of research which have sustained impact both locally, nationally and/or globally include
Francis’s research on international relations and sustainability, alongside African politics, including
conflict and peace building, and which has been influenced by post-colony and postcolonial theory.
Francis has worked with the United Nations, the Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission
in the Central African Republic (MINUSCA), the African Union, and the International Organisation
for Migration (IOM). For the UN and MINUSCA this included the making with non-academic
participants of a series of documentary films; the organisation of a Symposium in 2019 (which also
included involvement of the African Union and IOM) and capacity building work to construct a ‘truth
commission’. Further work for the UN has included a multi-professional session that mapped conflict
in the Central African Republic. Francis is Honorary Associate Professor of the University of

KwaZulu-Natal, Durban South Africa.

Carey was part of a group of academics and members of the British Association of Social Work who
in 2018 developed the Capabilities Statement for Social Workers in England who work with Older
People. This statement, which was widely distributed online and elsewhere to all qualified social
workers, includes the key knowledge, values, and skills that gerontological social workers must attain
during and after qualification. It includes a clear strategic pathway for post-qualification training that
integrates post-qualified research. Harlow’s success in 2014 and beyond led to the formation of the
Centre for Adoption Support based at University Centre Warrington. This comprises a partnership
between two former charities, Adoption Matters and Caritas Care, and has maintained the specific
aim of seeking ‘to develop and reform the care system and speed up the process of adoption’ for
children in care. Harlow’s role has included offering expert research-informed guidance and
supervision for practice-based staff at the Centre (alongside research active pedagogues from
education and health), who chiefly include social workers and ‘lay expert’ volunteers. In addition to
her work with the Alex Timpson Trust and supporting often complex adoption processes for children,
Harlow became a member of a steering group alongside colleagues at Ofsted and the Department


                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
for Education, as part of an action research project at the Rees Centre, University of Oxford. This
participative project eventually pioneered recommendations which promoted the application of
attachment theory in 150 schools across England. Relating again to inclusion and young people,
Wood has worked alongside non-academics in Sheffield as part of her research, including the
Relationships and Sex Education Forum (RSE) and SAYiT, a charity for LGBTQ young people. This
has included the provision of sex education workshops for young adults and led to the co-produced
workshop-orientated conference ‘Pleasure revisited – 10 years on’ (2017). Wood’s involvement with
colleagues from the Sheffield Institute for Policy Studies has included co-produced research and
education around sexual health.

Since 2015, Gubi has co-examined with members of the clergy and St Luke’s charity in London the
potential efficacy of ‘Reflective Practice Groups’. This includes the potential provision internationally
of therapeutic and pedagogical support techniques for members of the church. Among other benefits,
this research led to modified pastoral techniques for priests which enhanced attempts to improve
community-based encounters with church attendees: including through improved communication,
tolerance, and trust, as well as helping to overcome pastoral loneliness. White’s research (Funded,
among others, by the Big Lottery, Feeding Britain, and the Welcome Network) has focused on
narratives of poverty, resistance, and political consent for homeless people within the city of Chester
and beyond. White’s research into foodbanks, State benefits, exclusion and support has attained
greater validity in view of Global pressures such as the Covid 19 pandemic and its highlighting of
unequal health consequences for marginalised social classes. Along with other staff including
Francis, Keeling, and Gant, Davies’s legal and social justice orientated research has sought to
embed the principles of promoting human rights and social equity for marginalised groups. For
example, Davies (case study) leads the Forum for Research into Equality and Diversity at UOC; and
has worked alongside the Institute for Public Policy Research on the feasibility of establishing a Fair
Employment Commission. Davies has also been a member of the Euroneb Working Group on
strategic enforcement and regularly appears on Legal Network Television, including, for example, to
critically examine the legal implications of regulations for part-time workers in the UK and parts of
Europe as elsewhere. Davies has also been involved in several research projects which promote
gender equity.

Cox’s research has built upon the ‘mobilities turn’ in the social sciences with the sociology of cycling
as central element alongside issues of sustainable international futures. Following his award from
the Leverhulme Trust for an International Academic Fellowship in 2015 - and in collaboration with
Liverpool John Moores University - Cox has worked with the Rachel Carson Centre for Environment
and Society in Munich. This led to the development of cross-disciplinary research techniques –
including the use of video interpretative models - to examine bicycling and the environment so to
better understand mobility practices. This research allowed Cox to collaborate with a broad range of
international scholars - including from China and the Americas - to better understand through
innovative methodological approaches what people do, why and when they use bicycles; and how
this enables social actors to interact with their built environment and potentially help conserve their
environments. Cox is also a founder member of the Cycling and Society Research Group and is
Chair of the International Scientists for Cycling network for the European Cyclists’ Federation.
Indeed, Cox’s research has contributed to numerous international forums and policy documents on
sustainable transport.

Conferences can again influence networking and impact. A number of international conferences at
Chester have included the first professional identity-focused 5th International Conference on
Sociology and Social Work during August 2015, the ageing-themed 5th International PhD Workshop
of the European Sociological Association in April 2016 and, in 2018, the 24th Annual International
Conference in Counselling and Psychotherapy Research, co-hosted in Chester by the British
Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy. In 2018-19, Harlow initiated a project team in
mounting the Navigating Adoption Support national conference in partnership with the CAS, held at
the UOC in 2019.

Organising public lectures and seminars remains a crucial part of our strategy to strengthen
networks, partnerships and achieve impact. A series of well attended public lectures was organised

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
at University Centre Warrington throughout 2015, with internationally renowned guest speakers from
social work (for example, Professor Tony Evans, University of London, and Professor Stephen
Webb, Glasgow Caledonian University) analysing topics relating to social work and care. Through
long running initiatives such as the Social Work History Network - which is based at Kings College,
London, with long standing involvement and support from staff and service users at UoC - nationally
and internationally recognised speakers present their research each year to members of the public,
welfare professionals, service users, pedagogues, and policy makers across University of Chester
locations. In 2014, and then in 2019, public presentations around ageing-based research were
presented by Carey, Professor Robin Means, University of the West of England, and Professor Mo
Ray, Lincoln University, at Riverside. In 2016-17, Carey worked alongside colleagues within
sociology and nursing to analyse a series of dyad interviews undertaken with carers and older people
diagnosed with dementia. This led to ongoing collaborations with co-authors at Staffordshire
University and the University of Innsbruck in Austria.

Mid and senior-career researchers continue to play an active role contributing to the research base,
economy and society. Developing local networks remain crucial to these principles, and Gant, Buck,
Harlow, White, and Taylor holding regular critical seminars and research events involving
practitioners, researchers and service users around themes such as ‘peer mentoring and criminal
justice’, ‘care giving and social work’, ‘Homelessness and holiday provision’, and so on. In fitting with
the tradition of critical criminology at UOC and increasing collaborations, White, Buck and Taylor
remain members of the European Group for the study of Deviance and Social Control. This was
founded in Florence, Italy in 1973, and now has more than a thousand members across six
continents, making the group one of the largest criminology-focused forums in the world. Buck’s
research in the field of (peer) mentoring has led her to advise on national studies (the Our Voices
Too centre, researching child sexual exploitation, violence and trafficking at the University of
Bedfordshire, 2018-2019). Buck is co-director of the Prisons, Health and Societies group at the
University of Nottingham and works as an invited advisory board member for a user-led non-profit
organisation Community Led Initiatives (CLI, 2016- present), influencing mentoring practices. Buck
is also an Associate Director of CRIMVOL, the international criminal justice voluntary sector research
network and cross-sectoral collective of practitioners, policy makers and academics in criminal
justice. She is also a tutor for the national Learning Together network, facilitating sessions for
criminalised people on mentoring and the penal voluntary sector.

Bennett is currently collaborating with colleagues at Durham University around ‘British National
Identities’ post-Brexit and is also looking at the impact of deindustrialisation on place and local
identities. As an economist currently focusing on environmental sustainability post-Brexit,
Fernandez remains a member of the European Association of Environmental and Resource
Economists (EAERE) and UACES (University Association for Contemporary European Studies).
She maintains regular communication and influence within these European Associations including
through her long-established networks there and research.

Editorial and some other external influences
Membership of journal editorial roles and editorial boards, alongside any Book series editorials, can
help to foster the disciplinary research environment. Membership of journal editorial boards include:
Carey (Ethics and Values in Social Work); Buck (Ethics and Values in Social Work); Powell (Editor-
in-Chief of the journal; Illness, Crisis and Loss); was Co-Guest Editor of International Journal of
Sociology & Social Policy on theme of the third sector and the global economic recession in 2017;
Taylor (Associate Editor of Illness, Crisis and Loss); Francis (Journal of African Union Studies);
Harlow (Practice: Social Work in Action, a journal of the British Association of Social Workers); and
was Guest editor of a special edition of Practice on adoption (with Karen Izod) in 2015; Reeves
(Book Series Editor for Essential Issues in Counselling and Psychotherapy, Sage, 2013 onwards;
Working Together, Sage since 2020; Issues in the Social Sciences, UoC); Fernandez is Co-Editor
for ‘Encyclopaedia of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Decent Work and Economic Growth’
(Springer Nature, NY) – current; Powell is Book Series Editor of International Ageing (Springer
Nature, New York), 2014 onwards; and Social Perspectives in the 21st Century (Nova Science, New
York), since 2014. Bennett was Co-Guest Editor of Journal of Power and Education on theme of
race and education in 2015

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Examples of other contributions
In addition to individual social or economic contributions, other examples of more specific research
achievements include that members of the three themes of the UoA20 develop research links with
colleagues both in other HE institutions and practice/policy settings. Harlow has examined three
PhD’s at viva since 2017 including at the University of Salford; Powell collaborated with the Geriatric
Care Foundation of Uganda in providing advice and support in the care and treatment of older people
2017-19 and was awarded out of a membership of 500 professionals in the UK, Academician status
by The Academy of Urbanism for his work on ageing populations and the global environment; has
been Honorary Professor at McMaster University since 2017; and is Distinguished Honorary
Professor, Centre for Social, Education and Humanitarian Studies at Moscow State University in
2018.

Reeves was Chair of the British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy – 2014-2019, and
has examined fifteen PhD and Professional Doctorate vivas since 2015, including Trinity College,
Dublin, University of Bristol and University of Manchester; he is Director of Colleges and Universities
for the Charlie Waller Trust. Carey has continued to review articles for the British Journal of Social
Work, Ageing and Society, Ethics and Social Welfare and International Social Work journals and has
examined seven PhD’s since 2014 including at St Georges, University of London; University of York
and Keele University; Several members have been asked to give key note and/or plenary
presentations regionally (Francis), nationally (Fernandez) and internationally (Francis) in their
fields of expertise. Contributions made to disciplines and the broader research-base can be
evidenced via invitations to review for major funding bodies. For unit staff this has included Carey
(NIHR, ESRC, Nuffield, and Health and Care Research Wales); Cox continues to provide feedback
on “Prioritizing Active Mobility” (EU Commission).




                                                                                              Page 13
