  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Institution: University of Kent

   Unit of Assessment: 30: Philosophy

   1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

   a) Context and structure

   The Department of Philosophy at the University of Kent is home to two University-wide research
   centres – the Centre for Reasoning and the Centre for Practical Normativity – and actively
   participates in a third: the Aesthetics Research Centre. Relative to its size, the Department has an
   array of research strengths that enable its members to participate in important interdisciplinary
   research collaborations both across and outside the University. By more than doubling our
   research income (from £478,271 in REF2014 to £1 million in REF2021), we have continued to
   grow as a vibrant research community. This growth is also evidenced by the increase in PhD
   completions (from 8.67 FTE in REF2014 to 14.67 FTE in REF2021). The intensity of our research
   activity has enabled us to deliver what, for our size, is a large number of conferences and
   workshops: 53 in the REF period.

   For much of the REF period, the Department was situated in the School of European Culture and
   Languages (SECL). Following the University restructure in 2020, it sits within the Division of Arts
   and Humanities. The Department currently has 11 members of staff (10 permanent, one fixed-
   term), all on Education and Research contracts.

   Research growth and achievement has been achieved by a strong and careful focus on key
   strategic areas in line with the Department’s research centres:

1) Centre for Reasoning, focusing on theoretical reasoning, inference methods and their application
   to contemporary mathematics, science, and medicine. Staff include Corfield, Forbes, Wilde, and
   Williamson. They run the Reasoning Club and EBM+ academic networks, and support the monthly
   philosophy gazette, The Reasoner.

   Centre for Practical Normativity, encompassing investigations into norms and values across
   ethics, political philosophy, aesthetics, epistemology, language, logic, and philosophy of mind and
   action. Staff include Couto, Kanterian, Kirchin, Mei, Radoilska and Ware. They help run the
   Southern Normativity Group academic network.

   Additionally, within the Department there are several cross-cutting areas of collaboration, including
   the philosophy of medicine, health, and well-being, via the Health Methodology Group. As
   mentioned above, staff are also involved in running the Aesthetics Research Centre (UoA 33),
   which focuses on areas of philosophical interest in relation to art. In the spirit of our University’s
   long-standing mission to support cutting-edge research across disciplinary boundaries, in pursuing
   these themes Philosophy also collaborates closely with other Schools and Divisions, in particular
   the School of Arts, the Kent Law School, and the new Kent and Medway Medical School (KMMS).

   Our Department is committed to making its research freely and widely accessible in order for our
   work to reach and affect as many people as possible. All externally funded research articles are
   now published with gold open access, while other articles continue to be available with green open
   access. The Department is an early adopter of open access monographs: Kirchin’s 2017 Thick
   Evaluation was the first gold open access philosophy monograph published by OUP UK,
   supported by £10k from the University; the 2018 collaborative monograph Evaluating Evidence of
   Mechanisms in Medicine was only the second monograph to be published gold open access in
   the SpringerBriefs series. Since 2007, Philosophy has also hosted an open access gazette, The
   Reasoner, to serve the interdisciplinary community of research related to reasoning. We use
   innovative methods to disseminate our research accessibly to a wider audience: for example, a
   YouTube channel to promote our collaborative work on health methodology hosts around 50 films.


                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 b) Research strategy

 1) Strategic aims for research identified in our REF2014 submission were met as follows:

 (i) Further develop the Centre for Reasoning (CfR) and further contribute to the development of
 the Aesthetics Research Centre (ARC). The Centre for Reasoning has a global reputation for
 research on reasoning, inference, and methodology. This Centre led five externally funded
 research projects during the REF2021 period, with six postdoctoral researchers attached to them
 (Wilde, Wallmann, Parkkinen, Shan, Landes, Taylor). It hosted 29 conferences and workshops.
 The Aesthetics Research Centre has continued to grow its programme of events, and now takes
 the lead on key events, including a large conference on Philosophy and Comedy supported by
 £12k from the British Society of Aesthetics in 2019, co-organised by staff in Philosophy.

 (ii) Establish a new research centre in the area of practical philosophy. The Centre for Practical
 Normativity (CfPN) was launched in 2017. This both underlined our existing capacity for work in
 many areas of practical philosophy (moral and political philosophy; work in norms, values,
 reasons) and enabled us to focus our energies to deliver a step change in funded projects, impact,
 and public engagement. CfPN hosted four externally funded research projects and 19 conferences
 during this REF period. It also received three international academic visitors (Michael Gill, Arizona;
 Veli Mitova, Johannesburg; Emanuela Ceva, Pavia) and a visiting research student (Esther
 Miquel, Barcelona), all of whom spoke at Kent-hosted conferences. In 2018, as a result of Ceva’s
 visit, CfPN signed a Memorandum of Understanding with a leading international research
 institution, the Collegio Ghislieri, Italy.

 (iii) Develop interests in history of philosophy and philosophical method. This focuses on the
 connections between analytic and continental philosophy, both historical and present. The
 Department has hosted and organised/co-organised five conferences in the REF period, including
 ‘The Fact/Value Distinction: Contemporary and Classical Perspectives’, organised by Radoilska
 and Rudolph in 2015. We regularly invite visiting speakers in this area.

 (iv) Strengthen expertise in medical humanities. CfR hosted a large AHRC project on medical
 methodology, with collaborators at UCL, Cambridge, Amsterdam, and beyond academia. This led
 to the formation of the EBM+ network of researchers (ebmplus.org), and, within the Department,
 co-located across the Centres, a Health Methodology Group. A new permanent member of staff
 (Wilde) was appointed in this area. The Group has worked closely with the Oxford Collaborating
 Centre for Values-Based Practice, through multidisciplinary workshops, joint publications (Lee,
 Radoilska at al., 2018) and a ‘Norms of Action and Belief in the Clinic’ Network (NABC) led by
 Radoilska and Lee (see section 4). NABC brings together researchers, practitioners, policy-
 makers, and patient groups to ensure critical input into developing initiatives at all levels. We have
 also begun to forge relationships with the new Kent and Medway Medical School, by helping to
 design its interdisciplinary research-led curriculum.

 (v) Increase our research student population and strengthen the community. During the REF
 period, 17 students were supported by external or University scholarships, up from 11 in the
 previous REF period. 14.67 FTE students have completed in this period, up from 8.67 FTE in
 REF2014. As well as increasing our student population, we have focused on culture and
 community. Through an investment of time, money, and energy, we have supported our students
 to develop into leaders of the next generation of researchers (see section 2).

 The Department is submitting 11 members of staff in REF2021, down from 13.2 staff submitted in
 REF2014 (10 ongoing and 3.2 fixed-term appointments), but up from 8 at REF2008 and 5 at
 REF2001. Although the total number of Education and Research staff has decreased between
 2014 and 2020, our strategy has been to keep the levels of permanent staff consistent, at 10 FTE
 for both 2014 and 2021. This reflects a commitment to providing a stable research unit in the face
 of financial pressures, which has paid off in terms of our research intensity.



                                                                                                Page 2
  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2) 2) Impact strategy aims at the time of REF2014 were met as follows:

   (i) Work with researchers to identify and develop pathways to impact. This is achieved annually,
   when researchers prepare an Individual Research Plan (IRP), which they then discuss with the
   Director of Research for Philosophy and the Head of School. Directed guidance is given to develop
   promising ideas. For example, as a part of this process, Williamson’s ideas were developed into
   an AHRC Pathways to Impact application, gained AHRC funding, and led to an impact case study.

   (ii) Support financially those impact projects with clear reach and significance. In this REF period,
   various impact initiatives in Philosophy were supported by £21.5k of internal funding and £6.5k of
   external funding. This was targeted at establishing and building new partnerships with external
   organisations, increasing public engagement activities, and developing capacity for measuring
   impact. For instance, Kanterian’s research on political ideologies grew into a fruitful long-term
   collaboration with EU policy-makers, leading to measurable changes in policy and practice as
   evidenced in his impact case study.

   These policies have resulted in our impact case studies, one deriving from each of our research
   centres, as well as in staff making a wide range of other impactful contributions (see section 4).

   c) Future plans

   In the next REF period we will continue to build upon our current research strengths, working
   towards the following principal goals:

   (i) Ensure that both CfR and CfPN continue to grow in terms of world-class research and continue
   to provide a world-class research environment for graduate students and postdoctoral
   researchers. This will be achieved by: a) strengthening and expanding our international
   collaborations; b) appointing staff who can contribute to the activities of one or both centres; c)
   continuing to develop our portfolio of externally funded research projects; d) benefiting from
   internal funding for these two areas; and e) taking every opportunity to participate in the
   University’s new Signature Research Themes: Environment, Food Systems, and Natural
   Resources; Future Human; and Migration and Movement.

   (ii) Direct the research centres to engage with Global Challenges. Building on a collaborative
   Newton Award with colleagues from Johannesburg led by Radoilska and Mitova (2018-21), we
   will enhance our contributions to addressing Global Challenges, in line with our University’s
   Research and Impact Strategy. As partners of a planned COST Action Project (2021-26), we will
   also join forces with researchers from 24 institutions across 17 countries to tackle the pressing
   issue of intellectual and communicative responsibilities in public policy and practice. The Kent
   COST Philosophy Team includes members across both Centres: Couto, Radoilska (Project Lead),
   Ware and Wilde.

   (iii) Increase the profile of our other areas of shared expertise and grow these areas. This will be
   achieved by continued support for: a) research at the interface of the analytic and continental
   traditions; b) our Health Methodology Group; c) ARC; and d) new areas of convergent interests,
   such as philosophy of time in connection with agency and flourishing, with Forbes as Project Lead.
   This is a key strand within one of the three University-wide Signature Research Themes, Future
   Human, which will receive significant internal support (£150k per annum). We will look to increase
   graduate student numbers in all four areas.

   (iv) Continue to create and cement new partnerships to enhance our research impact, and
   increase public engagement activities. This will be achieved by encouraging and enabling all our
   researchers to contribute to impact and public engagement projects. All our staff will be expected
   either to help secure impact for existing projects or to initiate new ones. We believe that research
   impact works well through teams of people sharing knowledge and insight. This stems from our
   experience with one of our REF2021 case studies (Wilde and Williamson). We are fully committed
   to our University’s mission as a civic institution, serving as a cultural and intellectual hub for our

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 local and regional communities. To support both impactful and publicly engaged research, best
 practice will be shared via integrated, University-wide structures, such as the Research and
 Innovation Services (RIS) and Office for Scholarly Communication (OSC) teams. Guidance will
 also be offered through the IRP framework, and briefing sessions led by members of the Impact
 Strategy Group. We will also provide internal seed-funding to identify and explore pathways to
 impact and develop links with new partner organisations, with our research centres continuing to
 lead. For instance, under the auspices of ARC, Forbes and Kirchin recently forged new links with
 the Live Comedy Association, investigating how comedians respond to the pressures of lockdown
 brought about by Covid-19.

 2. People

 The Department has 11 members of staff (10 permanent, one fixed-term), all on Education and
 Research contracts, one of whom (Kirchin) was Dean of the Faculty of Humanities for most of this
 REF period, and then Director of the new Division of Arts and Humanities. Our aim is to support
 the achievements of all our staff and postgraduates, with a particular focus on those at earlier
 career stages. In keeping with our University strategy, we have endeavoured to build an inclusive,
 dynamic, and supportive research community where Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity (EDI)
 considerations are fully embedded in our structures and processes at all levels. We have been
 particularly active in working towards greater gender equality in our discipline and wider UK
 academia. We have done this because we believe that world-leading research results from
 enabling people from different backgrounds and with different life experiences to work
 collaboratively together.

 a) Staffing strategy and staff development

 The staff appointments and promotions made in this REF period reflect our overall strategy: to
 strengthen the research activities in our two research centres. Appointments to CfR included:
 Forbes, Konek, and Wilde (the last with a view to consolidating Health Methodology), and to CfPN:
 Couto, Kong, Radoilska, and Ware (Konek and Kong have since left to positions at the universities
 of Bristol and Oxford).

 In addition, six postdoctoral fellows contributed to research projects in theoretical reasoning:
 Landes, Parkkinen, Shan, Taylor, Wallmann, and Wilde. With institutional support we have been
 able to fully implement the RCUK Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 at all stages of their careers, including an annual review of both the strategy and the development
 of staff at annual planning meetings.

 Staffing and career development are the responsibility of the Head of Department and Head of
 School. The Head of Department monitors equal opportunities and takes the lead in encouraging
 under-represented groups to apply for positions. In 2017 the University renewed its HR Excellence
 in Research award, which acknowledges its alignment with the principles of the European Charter
 for Researchers and Code of Conduct for their recruitment. Since REF2014 promotions have been
 awarded to Ahlstrom-Vij, Mei, and Radoilska to Senior Lecturer, Kanterian to Reader, and Kirchin
 to Professor. Wilde progressed from postdoctoral fellow to Lecturer, and Forbes from a fixed-term
 Education and Scholarship contract to a permanent Education and Research contract.

 We have effective and efficient structures and processes to support the career progression of all
 staff, including postdoctoral researchers and staff on fixed-term contracts. The following have
 proven particularly helpful to colleagues:

 (i) Probation period with support from a Supervisor and a Mentor, training opportunities, and
 teaching relief provision

 On appointment, early career researchers (ERCs) develop a plan for their period of probation
 (usually 3 years), in consultation with the Head of School and approved by the Dean (now the
 Director of Division). They are also paired with an experienced mentor. Their workload in the areas

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of teaching and administration attracts significant relief to enable ERCs to develop as researchers
 in line with the Concordat Principles 3 and 4: a 50% reduction in year 1 and a 25% reduction in
 year 2. ERCs are also required to complete the Postgraduate Certificate of Higher Education
 (PGCHE), which includes training in research student supervision and in obtaining research
 funding. The Dean and Deputy Dean ran a Faculty Probationer Network, with three meetings a
 year, to help early career staff interact and share good practice across the Faculty. This will
 continue in the new Division. Support during probation for Couto and Ware enabled them to submit
 successful external grant applications to help co-host their first major Kent conference.

 (ii) Early Career Researcher Network and Grants Factory

 These are coordinated by the Graduate and Researcher College (formerly the Graduate School).
 The Grants Factory is open to researchers at all career stages. It provides them with peer support
 throughout the process of grant planning and application. Kirchin and Williamson regularly
 contribute to researchers’ career development across the University by convening workshops and
 reviewing applications. Ware’s workshop attendance provided crucial support for her 2020
 submission to the UKRI Future Leaders scheme.

 (iii) Annual ‘Reflect, Plan, Develop’ (RPD) and ‘Individual Research Plan’ (IRP) meetings

 The RPD process includes an annual individual interview with a trained appraiser who assists
 colleagues to reflect on the progress and development they achieved over the previous year, and
 to make plans for the coming year. In Philosophy, trained appraisers include Corfield, Kirchin, Mei,
 Radoilska, and Williamson.

 The IRP provides an opportunity for each member of staff to review their research and impact
 plans and to discuss the support available with their Head of Department and Director of Research;
 the latter also provides advice throughout the year. Wilde has particularly benefited from advice
 and support whilst developing the impact case study with Williamson

 (iv) Internal funding and support provided by RIS and OSC

 There are dedicated members of Research and Innovation Services and the Office for Scholarly
 Communication who provide support for the development of research grants and identify pathways
 to impact and public engagement. Seed funding has been provided by a system of School-level
 strategic research grants and via central University funding schemes, including in-kind support
 and teaching relief to facilitate work towards significant research projects, to apply for major grants,
 and to develop impact case studies. For example, Corfield and Kanterian received internal funding
 in 2019 to enable them to complete their monographs during this REF cycle (see section 3). All
 staff were able to apply for up to £800 per annum (£880 for early career staff) to support their
 research. Funding opportunities such as these will continue to be provided by the new Division.

 (v) Work Allocation Model (WAM) and Study Leave

 To ensure that work is allocated in a fair and transparent fashion, we operate a WAM that is
 reviewed annually. This model ensures that staff on Education and Research contracts can spend
 40% of their time on research. In addition, all researchers can apply for a term of research leave
 after seven terms. Staff may request to take their leave in advance when there is a strategic reason
 for doing so; they may also apply for a longer period subject to approval of the Head of School
 and School Director of Research. For example, strategic planning enabled Forbes to combine his
 leave with a Mind Fellowship, giving him a full year to write his first monograph ready for the next
 REF period. Staff plan for their research leave a year in advance and complete a report on their
 research activities upon return. All of our staff benefited from a period of leave in the REF2021
 period.




                                                                                                  Page 5
      Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       b) Support and training of research students

       The number of successful PhD completions for REF2021 has nearly doubled compared to that of
       REF2014. We supported 14.67 FTE PhD candidates to completion, and secured 17 fully funded
       scholarships compared with 8.67 completions and 11 scholarships, respectively, in the last cycle.
       During this REF cycle, PhD funding has been secured from a range of sources: three AHRC Block
       Grant Partnership awards via the CHASE Consortium; 11 Graduate Teaching Assistantships
       (GTAs) provided by the School; one award each from the Eastern Academic Research
       Consortium, the AHRC, and the Leverhulme Trust.

       We pride ourselves on the diversity and inclusivity of our postgraduate community, organising a
       full calendar of research events and informal networking opportunities. To ensure that this
       continues to be the case, we monitor research applications for equal opportunities and explicitly
       encourage members of under-represented groups in Philosophy to apply when advertising
       positions.

       We support the achievement and career progression of our research students by enabling them
       to publish their research in prestigious journals and secure contracts for monographs before the
       completion of their degrees. For instance, Liosi had three articles and a peer-reviewed chapter
       accepted while a PhD student at Kent. Her paper ‘Dignity and Human Rights’, published in Public
       Reason in 2017, led to a follow-up publication in the widely read Philosophy Now in 2018.
       Following a peer-reviewed conference paper on ‘Non-Platforming’ that he presented at the
       University of Brighton in 2020, Porter, then a 1st-year PhD candidate, was invited to contribute a
       40,000-word monograph on this topic, to appear in the Rowman & Littlefield series ‘Off the Fence:
       Morality, Politics and Society’. During their time with us, Auker-Howlett and Ghiara co-authored a
       paper with their supervisor, Williamson. The paper was published in the Journal of Evaluation in
       Clinical Practice. This publication was instrumental in launching their successful research careers.

       Upon completion, our PhD students have secured competitive academic and research
       appointments. Examples include: Angove (Tutor for Moral and Political Philosophy in the Law
       Faculty, University of Oxford, and Sub-Dean, St Edmund’s Hall, Oxford); Auker-Howlett
       (Researcher, NHS Policy Unit); Ghiara (Researcher, Early Intervention Foundation); Groves
       (Researcher, Novo Nordisk Foundation Centre for Bio-Sustainability, Denmark); Liosi (Research
       Fellow, UCL); Moffat (Researcher, Lancaster University), and Wilde (Lecturer, University of Kent).

       These successes have been achieved through our students’ integration into the research
       environment in the following complementary ways:

(i)    (i) Consistent research supervision and regular research event participation

       Supervision is provided by teams of two or more supervisors to enable each student to benefit
       from all the relevant expertise in the Department. In several cases, students have been co-
       supervised, meeting monthly with two members of the team. Furthermore, students are integrated
       into the Department through our research clusters, each student being attached to one of them.
       Students working on topics connected to theoretical reasoning attend weekly Evidence seminars;
       those who are members of the Centre for Practical Normativity attend regular events, such as the
       Kent Ethics Seminars. These activities enable students to learn about professional philosophical
       research first-hand, including project-based and collaborative research.

       In accordance with the University’s Code of Practice for Quality Assurance for Research
       Programmes, we have implemented mechanisms to monitor PhD progression, including: a)
       Induction Review (within 6 weeks of registration); b) Probation Review (within 10 months of
       registration); c) End-of-Year Review; d) Mid-Year Review (in cases where successful progression
       requires closer supervision); e) Submission Review (3 months prior to the end of the minimum
       period of registration); and f) two Continuation Year Reviews (if applicable). Research students
       are represented on the School (now the Divisional) Staff-Student Liaison Committee.




                                                                                                    Page 6
  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   At Departmental level, PhD candidates are expected to: a) present at and engage in a Graduate
   Research Seminar held fortnightly; b) attend relevant training seminars; c) contribute to regular
   Departmental events, including Invited Talks supported by the Royal Institute of Philosophy (of
   which we are a Chapter) and work-in-progress seminars; d) participate in relevant reading groups.

   The Philosophy Graduate Society (PhiGS) organises further talks and social events. Research
   students often co-organise research activities with members of staff and, in their own capacity,
   organise an annual postgraduate conference funded by the Department.

   (ii) Researcher Development Assessment, Personal Development Plan, training and access to
   internal funding

   In line with the UK Quality Code for HE and the UKRI Expectations for Doctoral Training, our PhD
   students have received career support via the University’s Graduate School, in addition to our
   Department. Since October 2020, this support is provided via the University’s Graduate and
   Researcher College. Our PhD students can access a broad range of training opportunities, beyond
   research skills. GTAs are provided with teaching experience (normally up to four hours per week
   of first-year undergraduate seminar teaching, plus more advanced teaching in some cases), with
   teaching observations and feedback from experienced academics. As part of their transferable
   skills training, PhD candidates are provided with Associate Fellowship Scheme (AFS) training,
   consisting of two modules – ‘An Introduction to Learning, Teaching and the Academic
   Environment’; ‘Contextualising Higher Education Teaching and Learning’ – and teaching
   observations. They may also take the two-year PGCHE programme, which consists of the two
   modules above plus two optional modules and teaching observations. Additionally, the AHRC-
   funded consortium, CHASE (see REF5a), has a portfolio of research and transferable skills
   training that is popular with our research students.

   At Departmental level, PhD students can apply for up to £250 per annum of research funding, with
   an additional £150 per annum from a School fund, and an extra £500 for the duration of their PhD.
   The Faculty has a PhD Support Top-Up Fund, which responds to unexpected research needs that
   cannot be met via other sources. It is designed to contribute to one-off activities and has been
   used by Philosophy graduate students to present research at international conferences. The new
   Division will continue to provide internal funding to support our PhD students.

b) c) Equality and diversity in research careers

   Supporting and promoting equality and diversity is a high priority for the Department. We do this
   in the following four complementary and visible ways: (i) endorsing, developing, and implementing
   the BPA/SWIP Good Practice Scheme; (ii) leading and supporting the BPA/SWIP Mentoring
   Scheme; (iii) leading the Athena SWAN process within the wider School; and (iv) embedding EDI
   into research decision-making and practice. Since the Department’s appointments are typically
   made at the early to mid-career level, our emphasis is on pathways to career progression.

   (i) BPA/SWIP Good Practice Scheme

   This scheme is a nationwide initiative led by the British Philosophical Association (BPA) and SWIP-
   UK (Society for Women in Philosophy). It aims to redress the existing gender imbalance in the
   profession and advance inclusivity more generally. It consists of a portfolio of good practice
   policies for relevant institutions, including Philosophy departments. Our Department endorsed the
   full portfolio in 2015, and since then has continued to update and develop further its practice in
   line with new policies, by providing support for women at the start of their careers, and, most
   recently, by ensuring comprehensive accessibility at all of its research and other events. Relevant
   policy materials are made available on our institutional website as recommended by BPA/SWIP.
   Radoilska and Kirchin, respectively, serve on the Executive Committees of SWIP-UK and the BPA.
   In this capacity, they contribute to the further advancement of equality and diversity within the
   profession at national level, as well as directing and influencing our Department.


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (ii) BPA/SWIP Mentoring Scheme

 This is a related nationwide initiative to counter gender inequality with respect to professional
 guidance. Participation in the Scheme is voluntary and confidential for both mentors (established
 colleagues irrespective of gender) and mentees (female philosophers from PhD students to Senior
 Lecturers). Radoilska led this initiative for three years (2017-20), with four other members of the
 Department contributing to the scheme as mentors, the highest participation of any UK Philosophy
 Department.

 (iii) SECL Athena SWAN Bronze Award

 The School of European Culture and Languages, of which Philosophy was a part until October
 2020, achieved Athena SWAN Bronze Award in April 2019. Radoilska was the School Athena
 SWAN Lead, with Couto, Wilde, and Williamson serving on the School’s Athena SWAN/EDI
 Committee, the highest participation of any department within SECL (4 out of 12 members). The
 formation of the Bronze submission and the action plan led directly to many changes, including
 those detailed in (iv).

 (iv) EDI in research decision-making and practice

 Philosophy staff involved in the REF process, including the Steering Group (Corfield, Radoilska,
 and Williamson) and the Dean of the Faculty (Kirchin), have pursued relevant EDI training to
 ensure that all staff are treated fairly in matters related to research and the REF, and to mitigate
 the effects of unconscious bias. In 2018, we conducted a full analysis of equality in research and
 made recommendations for improvements. Because of the successful work in our Department,
 these initiatives were adopted by the School and will continue to operate within the new Divisional
 structures. Examples include:

    •   EDI is now a standing item on all decision-making committees, including our Department;
    •   An EDI observer serves on our School and Faculty (now Divisional) Promotion
        Committees, providing crucial advice and judgement to Chairs;
    •   Postdoctoral researchers are now included in the RPD process;
    •   All research event convenors are actively encouraged to address wider issues of under-
        representation within their disciplines, in addition to gender balance;
    •   A School-wide EDI Student Focus Group was established in 2018. It includes both
        postgraduate and undergraduate students. The remit is to identify and help address, with
        support from the School EDI Committee, any barriers to full participation within the
        academic community experienced by students;
    •   EDI work is closely integrated with the University Student Success Project, which aims to
        improve the attainment of those from disadvantaged and minority backgrounds. This
        includes a calendar of events with Invited Inspirational Speakers and the ‘Decolonising the
        Curriculum’ collaborative project, aiming to address various forms of epistemic
        marginalisation within and across disciplines.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 In order to support and enable our central research and impact aims (see section 1), we have
 made a major effort in securing more external funds to continue our growth trajectory. As shown
 in Fig. 1, the external grant income achieved during REF2021 is more than double that of
 REF2014, and amounts to an increase of 170% per FTE. This significant growth is the result of
 strategic planning and consistent institutional support for research provided at all levels:
 Department, School, Faculty, and University.

                   RAE2001            RAE2008               REF2014         REF2021
  Income           £7,854             £76,520               £478,271        £1,078,089
  Per FTE          £1,571             £9,565                £36,233         £98,008
     Fig. 1: External research funding trajectory for Philosophy from RAE2001 to REF2021

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The following research projects have received external funding in this period (figures refer to total
 award value, rather than income in the REF period):

 Arts and Humanities Research Council
    •   ‘From objective Bayesian epistemology to inductive logic’ (2012-15, £308,229,
        Williamson);
    •   ‘Evaluating evidence in medicine’ (2015-18, £750,859, Williamson).

 British Academy
    •   ‘Epistemic consequentialism: problems and prospects’ (2014-16, £6,410, Ahlstrom-Vij);
    •   ‘Reassessing Responsibility: Why Knowing What One is Doing Matters’ (2015-17,
        £10,000, Radoilska);
    •   ‘Epistemic Injustice, Reasons, and Agency’ (2018-21, £50,982, Radoilska);
    •   ‘The Metaphysical Foundation of Evidential Pluralism’ (2020-22, £10,000, Shan).

 Leverhulme Trust
    •   ‘Grading evidence of mechanisms in physics and biology’ (2015-18, £222,096,
        Williamson);
    •   ‘Evidential pluralism in the social sciences’ (2019-22, £244,183, Williamson).

 Mind Association
    •   ‘Knowledge in action: revisiting responsible agency’ (2016-17, £21,492, Radoilska);
    •   ‘A defence of the growing-block view’ (2019-20, £23,031, Forbes)

 We were also awarded a number of external conference grants, including £12,000 for a
 conference from the British Society of Aesthetics (Forbes, Kirchin). In addition, ARC received
 £29,929 for various projects, also from the British Society of Aesthetics, and an additional £48,895
 from other sources during this REF period.

 Colleagues are encouraged and enabled to seek external funding through well-integrated
 institutional structures. As highlighted above, there are various avenues for seed funding to
 develop new ideas and collaborations. These have included the School and Faculty Strategic
 Research Funds and a Faculty Grant Incentivisation Fund for the submission of major external
 projects. Work on impact and public engagement is also supported via these funds. For instance,
 our impact case studies (Kanterian; Wilde and Williamson) were awarded £1.5k and £1.2k
 respectively to assist their development. The impact potential of the new partnership with the
 Collaborating Centre for Values-Based Practice initiated by Radoilska (see sections 1 and 4) was
 recognised and supported with an internal grant of £7k, which was matched by the Collaborating
 Centre (£1.5k of funds and £5k of in-kind support). During the REF2021 cycle, Philosophy was
 awarded £69k in total from these School and Faculty-level funds. In addition to these funds, SECL
 invested £6k per annum in the Department to support our research events and initiatives, and the
 University invested £1k per annum in the two research centres hosted by our Department, CfR
 and CfPN, while ARC received £1.6k per annum.

 At Departmental level, external grant applications are further supported through comprehensive
 peer review run by CfR and CfPN. This process begins at the very inception of a funding idea,
 through its work-in-progress stages, until submission to funder. At School level, all colleagues
 receive detailed feedback and guidance by an experienced panel at their annual IRP meetings.
 Divisional support is led by the Divisional Director of Research and Innovation and a dedicated
 Research Officer, who assist colleagues to identify the best match between their proposed
 research and the funding schemes currently on offer. At University level, there are frequent hands-
 on events convened to support the development of well-targeted, competitive research projects.
 This includes the Grants Factory workshop series and the University-wide peer-review network,
 to which Kirchin and Williamson regularly contribute by leading workshops and giving feedback to

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers across the University. In addition, Research and Innovation Services provide logistical
 support throughout the application process, which includes peer-review and administrative
 approval at School, Faculty, and University levels. This integrated support will continue to be
 provided through the new Divisional structures.

 Impact and Public engagement activities are directly supported by Research and Innovation
 Services and the Office for Scholarly Communication. Furthermore, the University has a wide
 range of events and initiatives aimed at sharing knowledge and best practice in these areas.
 Examples in which Philosophy staff have participated, and from which they have benefited,
 include: ‘Maximising Your Research Impact’, an annual conference to showcase impact
 achievements across disciplines; professionally supported impact capture software by Vertigo
 Ventures; and Inside Edge Media Training, with weekly briefings to help researchers identify and
 capitalise on media opportunities.

 Research infrastructure and facilities for Philosophy and its research centres, including office
 space, seminar rooms, and information technology, are provided by the School. Research facilities
 and access to resources are also provided for visiting academics, PhD students, and postdoctoral
 research fellows. During this REF period, Philosophy supported six postdoctoral researchers
 attached to externally funded projects: Landes, Parkkinen, Wallmann, and Wilde (all of whom
 progressed to other academic posts), and Shan and Taylor (both still in post). Through ARC, we
 collaborate with the Departments of History of Art and Film Studies. The Templeman Library offers
 the main information resource for staff and students at the Canterbury campus. Its budget for
 Philosophy was £112,119 in this REF period, plus shared funding for publishers’ packages. Woolf
 College provides accommodation for 544 graduate students.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 In keeping with our aims to conduct world-class research and to bring it to bear on society in
 significant ways, the Department’s staff have worked across many areas of philosophy, reaching
 a variety of audiences both within and beyond academia.

 a) Research events organised and key partners

 During this REF period, we hosted, at both Kent and elsewhere, 53 conferences and workshops.
 This included the 94th Joint Session of the Aristotelian Society and Mind Association in 2020,
 which, owing to Covid-19, was the first virtual version of the event. Across the weekend of 10-12
 July 2020, over 1,000 participants attended from 59 countries, double the normal attendance.

 The three research centres are the primary mechanism for staff to engage both with the wider
 discipline and with public beneficiaries, as detailed below.

 Centre for Reasoning. Collaborative, interdisciplinary themes since 2014 have included the role
 of evidence in medicine and the sciences (with weekly interdisciplinary Evidence Seminars); the
 use of homotopy type theory in Mathematics, Computing and Philosophy (with conferences
 involving all three of these disciplines); and inductive logic (with an AHRC project that led to a
 global research network funded by the German Research Foundation (DFG)). Within the
 University, collaboration involves the 43 centre members from Architecture; Biosciences; Kent
 Business School; Computing; Economics; Engineering; Film; Law; Physics; Psychology; Social
 Policy, Sociology and Social Research; Statistics; and Philosophy. Additionally, externally funded
 research projects have enabled our staff, postdoctoral research fellows, and graduate students to
 run regular seminars, symposia, and conferences with many invited speakers. Key external
 partners involved in centre research projects in this REF period have included the universities of
 Amsterdam, Bayreuth, Cambridge, Munich, and UCL, and collaborators beyond academia have
 included the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), the National Institute of Health
 and Care Excellence (NICE), and the Medicines and Healthcare Regulatory Agency (MHRA).
 CfR’s 29 conferences and symposia this period have included:


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •       Evidential Pluralism and the Social Sciences (2020)
    •       Practical and Foundational Aspects of Type Theory (2018)
    •       Formal Epistemology (2017)
    •       Mechanisms in Medicine (2017)
    •       Big Data in the Social Sciences (2017)
    •       Explanation and Evidence of Mechanisms across the Sciences (2016)
    •       Combining Probability and Logic (2015)
    •       Knowledge in a Digital World (2014)

 CfR founded and continues to host The Reasoner, an open access interdisciplinary gazette on
 reasoning, inference, and methodology. Collaborative centre research has underpinned an impact
 project on the role of mechanistic evidence in medicine, which has contributed to improvements
 to the methods of IARC and NICE for producing guidance in public health and medicine (see
 impact case study).

 Centre for Practical Normativity. CfPN was launched in 2017. It works across a number of areas,
 connecting high-level, abstract work within normativity (including work on reasons, values, norms,
 and standards) with practical issues (such as work within the political and medical domains). The
 Centre has strong collaborative links with Collegio Ghislieri (Pavia, Italy), supported by an
 institutional Memorandum of Understanding, leading to three exchange visits, two joint
 publications, and the instigation of an international research network on Epistemic Responsibility
 with the participation of 24 institutions from 17 different countries. CfPN has run 19 conferences
 and workshops, including:

        •   Philosophy and Comedy (2019)
        •   Emotions and Punishment (2019)
        •   Epistemic Injustice, Reasons and Agency (2019)
        •   Cosmopolitanism in an Age of Global Challenges (2019)
        •   The Future of Normativity (2018)
        •   Norms of Belief and Norms of Action in Clinical Practice (2017)
        •   Eating Animals (2017)

 CfPN has hosted several externally funded research projects (see section 3), and offers an
 intellectual home for staff and PGR students around the University with research interests in
 practical normativity. Visitors to the centre have included Michael Gill (Arizona), Emanuela Ceva
 (Pavia), and Veli Mitova (Johannesburg), Mitova’s visit serving as a springboard for a collaboration
 with Philosophy colleagues from the University of Johannesburg. The project brings together
 resources from different philosophical traditions to identify and counteract insidious forms of
 oppression in knowledge production and recognition within academia and society more broadly.

 Aesthetics Research Centre. Established in 2006, this centre benefits from membership across
 the History and Philosophy of Art, Film, Philosophy, Drama and Theatre, and Music and Audio
 Technology departments, with a quarter of the membership (Forbes, Kanterian, Kirchin,
 Radoilska) coming from Philosophy. It regularly hosts symposia, conferences, exhibitions, a
 visiting speaker series, and a range of projects, such as the aforementioned BSA Synergy
 Conference, Philosophy and Comedy (2019), Portraits and Philosophy (2017) (in collaboration
 with the National Portrait Gallery), Aesthetics Today (2017), and The Aesthetics and Ethics of
 Video Games (2016).

 b) Networks and collaborations

 Staff also participate in several other networks and collaborations:

 The Southern Normativity Group. Kent co-founded this network in 2013. It includes philosophers
 from Bristol, Cardiff, Reading, Southampton, and Sussex, as well as Kent, investigating
 normativity across many philosophical domains. Researchers share draft materials and organise

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a major event at one of the participating institutions each year.

 EBM+. This is a research network seeking to improve the ways in which evidence-based medicine
 handles evidence of mechanisms. Evidence-based medicine (EBM) tends to prioritise clinical
 studies over other kinds of evidence, but EBM+ researchers argue that it is also crucial to consider
 evidence of mechanisms when evaluating causal claims in medicine. This network produced an
 open access collaborative handbook, Evaluating Evidence of Mechanisms in Medicine (Springer
 2018; the ten authors of the book include medical guideline developers and philosophers), as well
 as many other research outputs and events.

 The Reasoning Club. This is an international network, initiated by CfR, bringing together 24
 research institutes, research centres, departments, and research groups across 14 countries
 whose research focuses on topics connected to reasoning, inference, and methodology broadly
 conceived. The Club’s goals are to foster the exchange of ideas between researchers working on
 reasoning-related topics, and to develop a sense of community for researchers spread both
 geographically and across disciplines. It achieves these goals by facilitating the free movement of
 researchers between organisations. The Club also hosts an international conference series, which
 has included events at Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Scuola Normale Superiore Pisa, and the
 University of Turin.

 The n-Category Café. Corfield co-founded a blog, the n-Category Café, in 2006 with two
 mathematical physicists to discuss the bearing of the language of higher category theory on
 mathematics, physics, and philosophy. Its motivation was the need identified in his Towards a
 Philosophy of Real Mathematics (CUP, 2003) for the philosophy of mathematics to study
 mathematical practice. Several world-leading mathematicians have contributed to discussions
 there. In 2008 he jointly founded an associated wiki, the nLab. Again, the motivation was in accord
 with the philosophical outlook expounded on the blog of the need for intuitive, conceptual
 explanation. Today the content of nLab amounts to over 14,000 pages and it receives more than
 200,000 page views per month. Endorsements can be found in many articles, such as, ‘I thank
 the many contributors to the nLab for creating an invaluable online resource for aspiring and
 professional category theorists’. Working with this network has enabled Corfield to develop his
 insights in this technically demanding area (see Modal Homotopy Type Theory: The Prospect of
 a New Logic for Philosophy, OUP, 2020). The community growing around the blog and wiki, both
 inside and outside academia, has produced a large amount of work in applied category theory.

 The Society for Ricoeur Studies. This is an international network of 200+ scholars from a variety
 of disciplines – e.g. Philosophy, Law, Medicine, Psychology, Religious Studies, Theology – whose
 aim is to promote the understanding and application of the work of Paul Ricoeur. Specific to our
 Department is the aim to promote dialogue between the analytic and continental traditions,
 something that Ricoeur’s work embodies with respect to the philosophy of language, action, and
 phenomenology. Kent is recognised as a hub for European Ricoeur scholarship, particularly
 between Anglo- and Francophone scholars, since it hosted the first UK conference on Ricoeur in
 2009. Mei was Vice-President of the Society in 2014-16, and President in 2016-18.

 Collaborating Centre for Values-Based Practice. Hosted by St Catherine’s College, Oxford, the
 Centre offers a platform for multi-disciplinary international collaborations covering different aspects
 of values-based practice around the world and in particular the relationship between values-based
 and evidence-based medical practice. Our Department has been an institutional partner since
 2016. Radoilska is co-founder and lead of one of the Centre’s networks: Norms of Action and
 Belief in the Clinic. The research and impact activities are described below.

 Forbes is an Associate of the Centre for Philosophy of Time at the Universita degli studi di Milano,
 and on the Advisory Board of the International Association for Philosophy of Time. These
 collaborations led to the Time: From Theory to Practice conference, and to Forbes’ publications:
 ‘The Growing Block’s Past Problems’ and ‘Accounting for Experiences as of Passage: Why
 Topology Isn’t Enough’.



                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 c) Contributions to the profession

 Our staff contribute to the sustainability of the discipline in a wide variety of ways, in addition to
 the usual refereeing and examining tasks. For instance, Radoilska serves as Editor-in-Chief of
 Ethical Theory and Moral Practice (Associate Editor in 2015-20), and Kirchin is on its Editorial
 Board. Kirchin has been on the Executive Committee of the British Philosophical Association since
 2014. Williamson has been Chair of the Advisory Board of the LSE Centre for the Philosophy of
 the Natural and Social Sciences since 2013. Kirchin and Radoilska are on the Advisory Committee
 of the British Society for Ethical Theory. Mei was President of the Society for Ricoeur Studies
 2016-18. Kanterian is on the Editorial Board of the Journal of Didactics of Philosophy, permanent
 member of the Econ Initiative (EU Commission, Brussels), and was, in 2016-17, panel member of
 the Wissenschaftliche Kommission Niedersachsen (Science Commission of Lower Saxony,
 Germany), evaluating the research and teaching excellence of German Philosophy Departments.
 Radoilska serves as assessor for the National Funding Agencies of the Republic of Ireland,
 Flanders, the Netherlands, and the Czech Republic. Kirchin is a longstanding member of the
 AHRC Peer Review College and also a Strategic Reviewer; he was also a referee for the Canadian
 Killam Prize in the Humanities in 2017. Corfield is a member of the Panel for the Fernando Gil
 International Prize for Best Book in Philosophy of Science. Members of the Department regularly
 act as external examiners in PhD vivas nationally and internationally. Examples include students
 from UCL (Corfield); Sydney (Forbes); Birmingham, Flinders, Southampton, Heythrop/UCL
 (Kirchin); Groningen, LSE, Paris, and Valencia (Williamson).

 d) Contributions to wider society

 The Department’s staff are involved in further collaborative initiatives beyond academia, as
 illustrated by the following:

 Forbes acted as consultant for Theatre Re's recent production Birth, which was critically acclaimed
 at the 2019 Edinburgh Festival Fringe, before going on tour. It was performed 34 times in 6 cities
 across two countries to over 4,700 people, and would have been performed in six more countries
 but for the Covid-19 pandemic. Forbes offered guidance to the director and cast on a range of
 philosophical topics, including the passage of time, the perception of time and memory, and of
 individuality and generality. The director described Forbes’ contribution as ‘instrumental in allowing
 us to both construct the piece and give it the depth, and playfulness that it required’, and stated
 that Forbes ‘helped us to get a better understanding of the question that was leading our
 exploration - when does memory begin? - and its philosophical implications’. Birth was awarded
 the title of 'Best theatre show' of the Fringe by Theatre Weekly, and received five-star reviews from
 the Arts Desk, Theatre Weekly, Broadway Baby, Theatre Box, and Fringe Review. Further
 collaboration with the Company is planned.

 Ware gave a set of invited public talks on the life, work, and legacy of Nietzsche at the Bradford
 Literature Festival, and participated in the development and curation of a collaborative exhibition
 at the Studio 3 Gallery in the School of Arts, ‘The Temporary Centre for Resistance’, which aimed
 to provide a practice-as-art space for staff and students at the University of Kent to question and
 imagine what higher education could look like without exploitation. She worked with HMP
 Rochester on events at the prison for World Mental Health Day, and with Dr Anna Kotova
 (Birmingham) to create a toolkit for policy engagement through her British Academy Engagement
 Award, ‘Families of prisoners: pathways to policy impact’, through two roundtable events. She also
 gave written evidence for a cross-party panel inquiry into trafficking for sexual exploitation in
 England and Wales in June-July 2019.

 Philosophy supports impact initiatives beyond those developed in the two impact case studies that
 we have submitted for REF2021. For example, the Norms of Action and Belief in the Clinic initiative
 is led by Radoilska in partnership with Regent Lee, Nuffield Department of Surgical Sciences,
 University of Oxford, and the Values-Based Practice Collaborating Centre, St Catherine's College,
 Oxford. With the support of a network of healthcare professionals, service user representatives,
 and other stakeholders, the programme addresses challenges that are widely experienced in

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 translating research into practice, such as ignoring guidelines as irrelevant to practice or forsaking
 professional judgment for formal compliance. The guiding hypothesis is that these challenges
 derive from unrecognised conflicts between the norms of belief (underpinning evidence-based
 clinical guidelines for optimising health outcomes) and the norms of action (underpinning the role
 of patient choice and professional judgment in shared clinical decision-making). This initiative
 expands on the 'two-way connection' model of the relationship between norms of belief and norms
 of action, developed in Radoilska (2017), ‘Aiming at the truth and aiming at success’ (Philosophical
 Explorations 20: supp. 1), and applied to surgical practice in Lee, R., Radoilska, L. et al. (2018),
 ‘A Novel Theoretical Framework to Address the Gap between Universal Guidelines and
 International Variations in the Threshold for Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Surgery’ (Annals of
 Vascular Surgery 5). The latter publication resulted in over 100 invitations to contribute to surgery
 publications worldwide. Anonymous feedback on events run for healthcare practitioners yielded
 comments such as, ‘That was the best organised CPD event I have attended. Fascinating stuff’,
 and ‘The core aspects of your framework have resonated upon my return to my clinical work. It’s
 a game-changer.’

 These examples illustrate how staff from across our Department develop ideas and lead research
 projects that have a direct impact in many areas of society.




                                                                                               Page 14
