Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Institution: King's College London

  Unit of Assessment: 9 Physics

  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1. Overview
The Department of Physics at King’s has a rich heritage and
tradition of interdisciplinarity. Our vision is to engage in high
quality impactful research, to promote a culture of enquiry and
collaboration, and to deliver on the King’s Vision 2029 with
research to inform and innovate.

The last REF period has seen substantial growth, with
increases across all research demographics (Fig. 1). The
number of research groups has grown from three to five, and
we havebenefited from significant investment in new research
infrastructure. We have increased grant income, with the
quality of our research highlighted by 7 ERC grants, among
many other individual awards as detailed later. The size of the
department is now such that we have critical mass to study
physics at all scales, from subatomic particles to single atoms,
to cells, and up to the scale of the entire universe.               Figure 1 Growth of King's Physics.

We have also taken huge steps in Equality, Diversity and
Inclusion since 2014, recognised through JUNO Champion status and an Athena Swan Silver
award. The number of female academics has doubled from 10% to 21%. Efforts in this area will
remain at the core of our plans to further strengthen our vibrant, international and diverse working
environment; we attribute our success to our shared vision in recruiting talented early career staff
and fostering them within an environment where groups work together to support each other’s
continued development.

1.2. Structure
King's Physics sits in the Faculty of Natural, Mathematical & Engineering Sciences (NMES) (see
REF5a §1.1). The Department has undergone significant structural changes since 2014: the
administrative structure has been streamlined with clear role descriptors and a workload model
introduced to capture staff effort and reward research activity. The Research Strategy Committee
(Head of Department (HoD), Deputy Head (Research), Vice Dean (Research) and Heads of Groups)
has been overhauled, with a clear statement on remit, responsibilities and strategic vision. A
Management Team (DMT), comprising HoD, Deputy Heads for Research and Education, the Leads
for Diversity and Enterprise & Engagement, and the Departmental Manager, has oversight of
departmental activities and is able to prioritise and balance research with other activities. This
structure allows the department to function efficiently, giving staff more time to focus on their
research commitments. Despite the diversity of fields in our five research groups (Fig.2) there are
wide-ranging collaborative links between groups, evidenced by publications and ongoing research
projects. Each Research Group has a Head, whose responsibility is to lead the group in terms of
research strategy and management of members, to make the group cohesive and inclusive, and to
support members in applying for grants and maximising their potential. This support structure fosters
a discipline-specific environment for early career researchers to benefit from the experience of more
senior members, and for staff to peer-mentor and support each other.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

The Department forms the core of wider integrated physics-related research activities across the
University, with ties to the other NMES departments and to physics research embedded in
interdisciplinary research divisions within the Health Faculties of King’s College London, including
joint appointments (Garcia-Manyes, Spillane) with the Randall Centre for Cell & Molecular
Biophysics. Of the 39 staff submitted to REF2021, one member of staff is submitted with UoA5
(Biological Sciences) and two with UoA12 (Engineering), reflecting the interdisciplinary ethos of the
Department of Physics, with the remainder submitted to UoA9.


                       BPSM – Biological Physics & Soft Matter
                       Garcia-Manyes, Lorenz, Mesquida, Molteni, Sajjadi*, Spillane#, Suhling



                       EPAP – Experimental Particle & Astroparticle Physics
                       Di Lodovico, Katori, Wilson


                       P&N – Photonics & Nanotechnology
                       Dickson, Green, Mannan*, Millen, Nasir, Rakovich, Richards,
                       Rodriguez-Fortuno, Zair, Zayats


                       TSCM – Theory & Simulation of Condensed Matter
                       Baletto, Bhaseen, Bonini, Booth, Kantorovich, Kozik, Paxton,
                       van Shilfgaarde, Weber

                       TPPC – Theoretical Particle Physics & Cosmology
                       Acharya, Alexandre, Blas, Ellis, Fairbairn, Lim, Mavromatos, McCabe,
                       Sakellariadou, Sarkar

    Figure 2. King's Physics Research Groups (# submission to UoA5 and * submission to UoA12)


1.3. Research Strategy
Our aim is to deliver internationally excellent research in our distinctive research areas, growing
research capacity and constantly seeking to capitalise on new opportunities.

Our strategy to meet this goal is to recruit outstanding researchers, to enhance our research base,
and allow our Groups to reach their full potential. We will continue to expand in our areas of
excellence, aiming to grow the department by 30% as we meet the King’s Vision 2029, which has
as a core ambition the strategic growth of Science and Technology, supported through substantial
investment (REF5a §2.4).


1.3.1. Evidence of Success
As an indicator of the credibility of our goals, we have met and exceeded our previous aims,
presented in REF2014:
• “Further growth to consolidate the strong research environment that has been established in the
  Department and ensure sufficient scale to respond to new challenges.”

Response: We have increased staff numbers by 29%, our research funding has proportionally
increased, and the number of prestigious grants has risen (§3.1). Development of a supportive
research culture is recognised by a Juno Champion award. There has been a significant expansion


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

in High Performance Computing (HPC) capability (§3.3) and £6M investment in new experimental
laboratories and equipment (§3.2).

The creation of the EPAP Group in 2019 demonstrated the University's commitment to the growth
of Physics. The motivation for this strategic development was the creation of a world-class
experimental activity in an area related to the strong TPPC group and involved in large science
collaborations, hitherto missing in the Department, as well as to grow experimental research for a
better theory-experiment balance.

• "Further development of the Theoretical Particle Physics and Cosmology Group as a leading
  centre for particle phenomenology to meet the need for such research with the flow of data from
  the LHC, the Planck satellite and many astroparticle experiments now underway."

Response: We have gone beyond this objective with the creation of the EPAP Group, while new
TPPC appointments McCabe and Blas consolidate our links with phenomenology; their presence at
KCL marks us out as a leading dark matter research group in the UK. The award of an Ernest
Rutherford Research Fellowship to David Marsh (from April 2021) and the appointment of Ruth
Gregory (from January 2021) as Head of Department further strengthens particle cosmology and
gravitation research.

• "Restructuring of the Experimental Biophysics & Nanotechnology Group, and new appointments,
  leading to the creation of two new groups."

Response: To support the growth of experimental research the previous Experimental Biophysics
& Nanotechnology group was restructured as envisaged to create two groups:

    Photonics & Nanotechnology (P&N) with a focus on nanophotonics, metamaterials and
    functional nanomaterials, enhanced through the arrival of Green and Rakovich, and development
    into the areas of ultrafast photonics (Zair) and (quantum) opto-mechanics (Millen), and further
    strengthened through the appointment of Rodríguez-Fortuño in theoretical nano-optics.
   Biological Physics and Soft Matter (BPSM), with the transfer of Lorenz and Molteni from the
    TSCM Group bringing expertise in molecular simulation of biological systems, and the
    appointment of Spillane and Elosegui-Artola (joining April 2021) to build on strengths in
    mechanobiology.
Core strategic principles of the department have been the development of:
   Partnerships, in particular with neighbouring London institutions (see §4.1.1 and Fig. 5 for
    further details). The development of the BPSM Group has strengthened our partnership with the
    Francis Crick Institute (REF5a §1.5) including the appointment of Garcia-Manyes (Head of
    BPSM Group) and Elosegui-Artola as Crick Group Leaders. The combined strength of the P&N,
    BPSM and TSCM Groups were instrumental in King’s accession to the London Centre for
    Nanotechnology (LCN) in 2018. Our partnership in the London Thomas Young Centre (TYC)
    for Theory & Simulation for Materials & Molecules has been strengthened through the Tier 2
    MMM HPC Hub (see §3.3) and the JC Maxwell Node of CECAM (Centre Européen de Calcul
    Atomique et Moléculaire) was renewed in 2016 and again in 2020. During the REF period King's
    Physics has led the creation of the London Institute for Advanced Light Technologies (London
    Light) with Imperial and UCL, a collaborative environment for new and emerging areas of
    photonics. The EPAP and TPPC groups recently joined the NExT Institute for particle
    phenomenology, while the new EPAP Group brought a leading role in the international Hyper-
    Kamiokande experiment.

   Interdisciplinary research. The BPSM and P&N Groups have enjoyed numerous successful
    collaborations with researchers in the King's Health Faculties (REF5a §1.1). Green returned to
    the Physics Department from secondment (2011-2014) in the School of Biomedical Engineering

                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    & Imaging Sciences (BMEIS), supporting the development of nanoparticles for medical imaging.
    Collaborations throughout the University have been strengthened further through the
    development of interdisciplinary Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs), CANES (Cross-
    Disciplinary Approaches to Non-Equilibrium Systems) EPSRC CDT, led jointly with the
    Department of Mathematics, and the BiPAS (Biological Physics Across the Scales) CDT, led by
    the BPSM Group, both providing interdisciplinary doctoral training involving supervisors from
    across King's College London.

1.3.2. Future Objectives
(1) Strategic growth of King's Physics for sustainable research excellence:
Supported through King's Vision 2029, we will continue the successful growth of the Physics
Department, to ensure a critical mass for the vitality and sustainability of our work, to embrace
opportunities, address the global challenges of the future, and to further develop interdisciplinary
research. An overarching objective is to continue to grow experimental activity, ensuring a healthy
balance between theoretical, computational and experimental physics, underpinned by the further
development of new research laboratory space. Initial priorities include: further appointments to the
BPSM Group, building on connections with the extensive biomedical research in the King's Health
Faculties and our partnership with the Francis Crick Institute; the growth of the EPAP Group to
ensure a critical mass for sustainable excellence and to exploit new opportunities in this vibrant area
of experimental research. The Deputy Head (Research) will work with a new Departmental Impact
coordinator and the Faculty Enterprise & Engagement team to realise our goals of increased grant
income and engagement with impact.

(2) A strong and supportive Research Culture:
King's Physics strives to create a culture for research in which all researchers are motivated and
supported to produce research of the highest quality.

We already place equality, diversity and inclusion at the core of our activities and are committed
to further progress, maintaining our status as a Juno Champion, with a goal of Athena SWAN Gold.
Promoting a healthy work-life balance and inclusiveness at all levels fosters a more open research
culture that enables deeper and more impactful research. The Departmental Management Team
will ensure an ongoing balance of strategic need across departmental activities, embedding quality
time, vital for the delivery of impactful research, at the core of management decisions.

The Department recognises that one of the immediate challenges in the wake of the pandemic is to
bring research focus back into balance. A Research Focus Plan will include away days and an
emphasis on mentoring.

We will strengthen training and mentoring of researchers at all career stages, supporting career
development and progression to ensure all can realise their full potential. The next generation of
researchers lie at the heart of our research culture, thus building on the successes of the CANES
and BiPAS CDTs we will develop new doctoral training programmes across all Research Groups.

A strong research culture is underpinned by the highest standards of Research Integrity, promoted
by a Faculty Research Integrity Champion, with a Physics Research Integrity Advisor (Dickson)
leading training and providing a visible point of contact for researchers.

We are committed to the promotion of Open Research, as the cornerstone of reproducible science,
guided by the King’s Open Access policy (REF5a §2.3). King’s Research Portal is our institutional
repository, providing open access to the full text of research outputs, while King’s Library supports
research data management, including long term storage and public access for research datasets.



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

King's Physics actively pursues the development of community code, shared through GitHub and
dedicated websites.

(3) Research Excellence through Partnership and Collaboration:
   Within the Department there exists an open and supportive environment for the development of
    research between Groups, which we will continue to encourage, assisting coherent bids for
    larger research grants.
   Within King's we will strengthen our focus on the development of interdisciplinary research to
    address major challenges, both with other Departments within the NMES Faculty, addressing
    the 'Connected Disciplines' priority of the Faculty's 5-year plan, and with other Faculties, in
    particular those in the Health Sciences, the King's Together programme supporting development
    of new collaborations.
   We will deepen our regional partnerships which together enable a local critical mass of world-
    class research, including the LCN, TYC, London Light, NExT and the Crick, and develop further
    our international strategic partnerships (see §4.1).


1.4. Research Groups: Status and Future Plans
   Biological Physics and Soft Matter (BSPM) investigates the physical phenomena
    underpinning many of the most challenging questions in biology today, with expertise ranging
    from computational biology to biophotonics to mechanobiology. Future Strategy: Establish UK
    leadership in the fields of bio-interfaces and mechanobiology both experimentally and
    computationally. To support the growth of this research area, recruitment of a Lecturer and
    Reader is underway (paused by COVID-19).
   Experimental Particle and Astroparticle Physics (EPAP) focuses on understanding the
    fundamental properties of the neutrino and facilitating the emerging field of neutrino astronomy.
    Future Strategy: Continue high profile research in current and future neutrino facilities and
    expand in the astroparticle physics area including dark matter detection strategies.
   Photonics and Nanotechnology (P&N) develops and applies advanced photonics and novel
    nanomaterials to address modern challenges in photonic and quantum technologies, material
    science, sensing, imaging and clean energy. Future Strategy: Strengthen theoretical capability
    alongside the Group's leading research in nanophotonics, nanomaterials and quantum systems.
   Theoretical Particle Physics & Cosmology (TPPC) pursues a strategy of, and has leading
    expertise in, integrated studies of particle physics, cosmology, astroparticle physics and
    gravitation. Future Strategy: Maintain leadership in particle phenomenology and further
    strengthen research into gravitation, especially via our involvement in LIGO, LISA and AION.
   Theory and Simulation of Condensed Matter (TSCM) tackles many-body physics with broad
    applications in materials science, nanotechnology and superconductivity, including applications
    of machine learning. Future Strategy: Maintain strengths in strongly correlated systems both in
    and out of equilibrium and expand into new directions, particularly quantum computation.

Many natural synergies between the research groups have emerged, both through research
challenges bridging fields, and through joint membership of facilities, organizations and international
initiatives (Fig. 3). Interactions between Groups are facilitated through internal colloquia, shared
teaching and departmental away days. It is vital to constantly refresh our research priorities in order
to benefit from new initiatives or collaborative opportunities.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                 Figure 3. Examples of some collaborative activity between Groups


1.5. Enabling Impact
King's Physics research has led to health, economic, cultural, social and educational impact, with
our approach to enable impact highlighted below. We take advantage of funding such as the
University's EPSRC Impact Acceleration Award (IAA), and the King's Innovation Institutes (REF5a
§4.5) to facilitate delivery of research impact. Our interdisciplinary research starts the journey to
impact in health through our strong connections within the University as lead of King’s Health
Partners Academic Health Science Centre (REF5a §1.5). The Faculty has established an Enterprise
& Engagement Committee to encourage and enable opportunities for the development of impact
and develop an enterprise-driven culture. The Physics Lead for Enterprise & Engagement
(Mesquida) links Departmental and Faculty activities, allowing us to share opportunities, best
practice and achievements and a Business Advisory Board has been established to inform our
strategic thinking.

1.5.1. Partnership & Collaboration with Industry and Commercialisation:
Since 2014 we have enjoyed many collaborations with industrial and government partners (See §4).
These partnerships were strengthened through secondments, both outgoing, such as a Royal
Society Industry Fellowship (Nasir), and incoming, with visiting scientists embedded at King's (AWE,
QinetiQ). CASE conversion of research council DTP studentships (e.g. Rolls-Royce) and the EPSRC
IAA (e.g. Photek) were used to seed new collaborations with industry partners.

The development of new industry partnerships is supported by a Faculty Industry Liaison Manager,
who provides strategy oversight and project management of partnership and innovation initiatives,
and the University’s Industry Partnership Team which enables new partnerships, shapes
collaboration models, closes agreements and manages long-term relationships. Activities associated
with commercialisation and Intellectual Property are supported by a dedicated IP & Licensing
Manager for the Faculty.




                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

1.5.2. Interdisciplinarity:
Collaborations at the life sciences interface enable both new biological insight and development of
new techniques for application in biomedical research, in turn leading to impact in healthcare. This
is highlighted through our impact case study on improvements to cancer treatment and patient
outcomes using novel fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy, developed through collaborative
biophotonics research between Physics, the Randall Centre and the Comprehensive Cancer Centre
at King's.

1.5.3. Outreach and Public Engagement:
Impact in the form of outreach is embedded within King's Physics, enabling the engagement of a
wide range of audiences with our research. These activities vary from the organisation and delivery
of international summer schools in developing countries (see impact case study), to appearances
in national media as well as the more regular programs of talks to public audiences and schools and
exhibitions as science festivals. The interaction of science with art provides new opportunities to
ignite creativity and discovery and we have engaged with a number of collaborations with artists and
curation of exhibitions, including events organised by London Light and enabled through the King's
Artist in Residence programme, and the Dark Matter season at London’s Science Gallery at King's
(see impact case study).



  2. People

2.1 Staffing Strategy and Recruitment
Strategic investment by King's College London in the development of Science and Technology has
enabled King's Physics to deliver its strategic ambition for further growth (§1.3), by recruiting
outstanding researchers to consolidate areas of research excellence and ensure sufficient scale to
respond to new challenges. There has been a significant increase in the number of staff, both
academic and postdoctoral, and students (Fig.1). In the REF period King's Physics made 12
appointments (including 5 female staff) to academic posts with responsibility for research: 7 as
Lecturer, 1 as Senior Lecturer, 2 as Reader and 2 Professors. All academic staff are on open-ended
contracts. Our focus on the recruitment of outstanding early career academics ensures we are able
to maintain a balanced demographic profile and enable future succession planning from within the
Department. To promote international collaboration, two staff combine their King's post with positions
in leading international centres: Acharya (ICTP Trieste), van Schilfgaarde (US National Renewable
Energy Laboratory NREL). New appointed staff are from CERN, GRAPPA (Amsterdam), Vienna,
the Crick, Cambridge, Durham, Imperial and QMUL. In the same period three academic staff left,
while we bore the untimely passing of our valued colleague Alessandro de Vita.

Our strategy to develop a distinct interdisciplinary research profile, and to develop our partnerships,
has been pursued through new joint appointments with the Randall Centre for Cell & Molecular
Biophysics (Spillane) and with the Francis Crick Institute (Elosegui-Artola, joining April 2021). Our
partnerships with the London Centre for Nanotechnology, London Light and the Thomas Young
Centre, and associated opportunities for technology impact, have been supported through new
academic appointments in photonics and nanotechnology (Millen, Rakovich, Rodríguez-Fortuño,
Zair), and in strong electron correlations (Booth). The targeted development of particle physics and
cosmology has been supported through appointment of Blas, McCabe and Gregory (joined Jan
2021) and establishment of the EPAP Group (Di Lodovico, Wilson, Katori). Appointment of new staff
with experimental programmes has also proceeded hand-in-hand with refurbishment programmes
to create high quality new laboratory space in which their research can flourish.



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Recruitment follows best EDI practice, with advertising material and job descriptions reviewed and
updated by the Department EDI team to encourage diverse applicant pools. Essential requirements
of all academic appointments are: an outstanding research track record and strong independent
research vision; fit with the research priorities of the group and awareness of impact; suitability for
teaching. Academics from other groups, students and postdocs are encouraged to attend the
interview presentation and contribute feedback to the panel. To promote the recruitment of
outstanding early career researchers to King's, a Faculty policy was developed for proleptic
appointment to an open-ended position on completion of a personal fellowship, including a full
academic appointment process to ensure equality and rigour, with 3 such staff appointed in King's
Physics: Royal Society University Research Fellows (URFs) Booth and Rakovich, and Ernest
Rutherford Fellow McCabe.


2.2. Staff support and Development
King's Physics has put in place a range of initiatives and mechanisms (detailed below) to ensure that
all researchers obtain the support and development they need such that their time at King’s is
valuable, whether they remain within King’s or move on with their skills enriched. The Department
Research Committee provides a forum for discussion of practical research issues, for example
access to training, travel and consumables for PhD students and postdocs, computing and laboratory
issues.

2.2.1. Workload Model
All academic staff in King's Physics are involved in research, education and administration, with
departmental duties allocated by the HoD according to a Transparent Workload Allocation Model,
capturing assigned duties, research grant management, contributions to impact, the academic field
and beyond. Allowance is made for Reduced Workload for early career staff, for staff returning from
extended leave (e.g. parental leave or sickness), and in recognising the research commitments of
staff who have secured fellowships or other major individual research awards.

2.2.2. Support for early career academic staff
King's Physics is committed to the support of new academic staff to realise their potential to develop
into successful academics and leading researchers.

Start-up: All new academic staff are provided with funding to enable them to establish a strong
independent research programme, including equipment budgets, an assigned PhD studentship in
the first year of appointment, and for experimentalists, dedicated newly refurbished laboratory space
(see §3.2). £1.01M of start-up funding for equipment, consumables and research staff has been
provided to new physics staff over the REF period, with the level of support dependent on need.

Workload reduction: All new academic appointments have protected teaching and administrative
loads during their probation, usually three years. This creates extra time for building up independent
research, establishing a laboratory for experimentalists, guiding first PhD students and developing
first research proposals.

Mentoring and training: Every new member of staff is supported formally through mentoring, while
experienced staff across groups dedicate time to advising and helping new colleagues. The
probation process offers a mechanism to discuss, set and review objectives periodically with their
probation mentor, to ensure staff build their skills and research profile to promote a smooth transition
to being confirmed in post.




                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

2.2.3. Staff Development
King's Physics enables the development of staff through research support, training, mentoring,
reviews and promotion. We engage proactively with King’s comprehensive programme of
professional development training, with a wide range of training courses available to staff. The
Department also supports staff through nomination to university-provided training programmes such
as the Leading Researchers Programme (Owen 2017, Lorenz 2018, Fairbairn 2019) which provides
targeted development to enable accelerated career progression. Ongoing mentoring is provided by
Heads of group and a regular lunch where non-professorial staff meet with the HoD to discuss and
explore issues that affect them helps identify where support is required.

The University’s annual performance development review (PDR) is designed to ensure that progress
is maintained, with necessary support identified and provided. The process provides an opportunity
to reflect on successes and difficulties, identify individual training needs and objectives for the year
ahead, and discuss longer-term career plans and aspirations, including promotions. Importantly, the
PDR enables identification of annual research objectives – publications, grant submissions and
impact development. The PDR feeds back into the recognition-pay process and allows the HoD to
recognise successes and difficulties, informing workload allocation.


2.3. Support for Research and Impact
2.3.1. Research Grant Development
Departmental processes to support grant development and writing include internal peer review
panels and mock interviews. Peer review is bespoke for each group, with Heads of Group providing
oversight, and monitored by the Deputy Head (Research), with best practice shared between groups.

The Faculty professional services team supporting research has grown from one Research Officer
to a team of seven full-time, research-focused staff, with a Senior Research Officer embedded in the
Department, and a dedicated PhD-qualified Research Development Manager (previously an EPSRC
portfolio manager) from the University Research Strategy & Development team (REF5a §4.3), to
support the development of funding applications, provide academic staff training and act as a source
of expertise. The Faculty's “NMES20” programme supports the development of highly competitive
grant applications through a structured cohort-based programme for eligible PIs in the Faculty each
year. The Network of Fellows brings together current and recent holders of research fellowships and
holders of major awards from across the Faculty, providing a forum for the development of activities
to further the advance of network members, and to inspire, support and act as a source of advice for
all academic colleagues.

A Research Overhead Incentive Scheme returns a portion of research overhead to Principal
Investigators, with facility for financial year roll-over, to provide flexibility for research costs not met
by funders and those incurred beyond grant end, to enable bridging funding for research staff and
to initiate new activities. King’s Undergraduate Research Fellowships provide funding for around six
summer internships every year with the dual aim of integrating research and teaching, and helping
academics explore new ideas for future proposals.

2.3.2. Research Partnerships and Networks
Our partnerships with the London Centre for Nanotechnology, Thomas Young Centre, London Light,
NExT and Crick provide a strong interdisciplinary and collaborative environment for academic and
research staff and PGRs. These partnerships bring together leading international researchers to
speak at a range of workshops, lectures, networking meetings and more, showcasing latest
developments and providing opportunities to discuss research, develop collaborations and build



                                                                                                    Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

networks. A more extensive network of support for King's Physics researchers is presented through
our membership of national and international networks and collaborations (§4.1).

2.3.3. Support for Impact
The EPSRC IAA has been employed to develop a culture for impact across all Departments in the
Faculty, including impact training for researchers, and one-to-one support for researchers
developing projects for IAA funding; research staff are eligible to be PIs on IAA grants, in support of
their development to independence.

Monthly Encouraging Enterprise webinars, delivered by King’s specialists and external experts,
foster an Enterprise & Engagement ecosystem within the Faculty. These provide an opportunity for
our community to learn, share ideas and enable a step-change in how we more actively work with
Industry and other external stakeholders in the public, policy and business domains.


2.4. Support and Development of Postdoctoral Researchers
Our Research Fellows and Postdoctoral Research Associates (PDRAs) lie at the heart of the
Department’s research environment, with numbers increasing from 27 to 44 over the REF period.
Research staff are invited to Staff Meetings, ensuring they are fully included within the King's Physics
community and exposed to the full range of academic issues considered within the Department.

The Physics Postdoc Tutor (Blas) ensures smooth progress for PDRAs by developing policy,
monitoring progress and providing pastoral support and careers advice where necessary. The Tutor
is expected to be familiar with appropriate university procedures and reporting mechanisms, for
example on bullying and harassment. The postdoc tutor and two physics PDRAs attend the Faculty
Research Staff Committee, which serves as a forum to exchange ideas and best practice across
departments.

The Physics Postdoc Forum, chaired by the HoD, provides an arena for PDRAs to express their
views, raise issues, and contribute ideas on how to improve the research environment for Early
Career Researchers. The forum also provides a space for external guests to lead discussions on
such topics as careers development or fellowship applications.

Research Staff Development: King's Physics is committed to delivering the principles of the UK
Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. The University's commitment to the
Concordat is recognised by the European Commission's HR Excellence in Research Award which
King's has held since 2012, recently renewing it for 2020-22. PDRAs have access to a wide range
of training to enhance their skills and career prospects, with the Centre for Research Staff
Development (CRSD, REF5a §3.3) providing university-level professional development support for
research staff to achieve their potential. Research staff are supported in the development of
externally funded personal fellowship applications, while the competitive King's Prize Fellowships
(REF5a §3.3) support the transition to research independence (awarded to Rhys, 2019)

King's Physics is committed to aligning its practices with that of the Concordat by not only providing
the relevant training for researchers, but also for supervisors and line managers. For example, staff
received unconscious bias training in 2019 and had diversity and inclusion training at an away day
in January 2020.


2.5. Training and Support of Postgraduate Research (PGR) students
Studentship funding: Most PGR students are fully funded by a variety of studentships administered
by the Department, with all studentships externally advertised. Faculty-funded PhD studentships are
a constant source of support for King's Physics and have contributed more than £2.2M over the REF

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

period. External sources of funding include EPSRC, BBSRC and STFC DTPs, EPSRC CANES and
Medical Imaging CDTs, the Royal Society, ERC, charities and others. Other sources include
University international studentships, the King’s/Crick joint programme and the King’s-China
Scholarship Council Programme (4 pa since 2018). Research groups have access to funds to enable
PGR students to attend training and research conferences.

Recruitment: All prospective PGR students are
interviewed by a panel of at least two academic staff
following university best practice. Measures adopted
through our Athena Swan Action Plan on student
recruitment have led to a marked increase in female
PhD students during the REF period (Fig. 4).

Progression: To ensure oversight of the satisfactory
development of their PhD programmes, research
students have a 6-monthly progress review involving
feedback from the supervision team, a training needs
analysis, and agreement of objectives for the next
period, signed-off by the physics postgraduate tutor.
Major progress assessments also occur between 9
and 18 months (MPhil-to-PhD upgrade), based on a
technical report and viva with a panel to ensure the
PhD project is on track for successful completion.
The Department Research Committee receives
updates on PhD completion statistics, including               Figure 4. PhD student gender ratio
breakdowns by group and student gender.

Postgraduate Tutor and Staff-Student Liaison Committee (SSLC): In addition to their supervision
team, research students can raise issues with the Departmental Postgraduate Research SSLC,
chaired by the Postgraduate Tutor (Kozik) who also acts as a contact for individual students.

Training: We have a continuing focus on ensuring students have the skills required to both perform
and contextualise their research. The King's Centre for Doctoral Studies (REF5a §3.2) enhances
standards for PhD supervision in the University, providing training for PGR students and supervisors
across King's, with courses covering a wide variety of academic and transferrable skills. Training is
a standing item on the agenda for the Departmental Research Committee (which has PhD student
representation).

Each PGR student participates in research activities of the Group to which they are affiliated,
including seminars, journal clubs and discussions with visitors, and are encouraged to attend the
regular research seminars, lectures and events in the Department. The research groups form the
immediate communities for PGR students, where they learn from others and are encouraged to
discuss and present their own work and develop internal collaborations. PGR students in the same
research group are normally co-located in the same office space to facilitate collaboration and peer
support. Research students are regularly encouraged to present work at meetings, while our
partnerships provide a strong enhanced environment for further subject-specific doctoral training
(§4.1). For example, the Thomas Young Centre provides an unrivalled programme of training in
material and molecular modelling, whilst the recent addition of the two particle groups (EPAP and
TPPC) to the NExT Institute will further enhance doctoral training in this area.

Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs): During the REF period, the Physics and Mathematics
Departments co-led the EPSRC Cross-Disciplinary Approaches to Non-Equilibrium Systems
(CANES) CDT. CANES has brought together over 50 supervisors from across King's, with students
and staff benefitting from joint supervision in a multi-disciplinary environment with dedicated

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

computer and common rooms to build cohort cohesion. The CDT promotes student leadership, with
successes including student-led workshops such as those on Localisation in Quantum Systems and
Quantitative Systems Biology. Staff, students and industrial partners are brought together by the
CANES Annual Retreat, and with partner engagement events.

Building on this success, the strong links at the life-science interface, within King's and with the Crick
(§1.3.1 and Fig. 5), have facilitated the establishment of the CDT in Biological Physics Across Scales
(BiPAS), a multi-disciplinary doctoral training programme funded by the Centre for Doctoral Studies
and led by King's Physics.


2.6. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
Ensuring an inclusive and supportive working and learning environment is a key part of the Physics
Department's EDI strategy, and core to King's Strategic Vision for 2029. In 2019 the Department of
Physics was awarded Juno Champion status and an Athena SWAN Silver award, in recognition
of its work to embed equality of opportunity in all areas of work and ensure that all members and
prospective members of staff and students are treated solely on merit, ability and potential. Receipt
of the Athena SWAN award coincided with the Faculty’s Women in Science Week, an annual
celebration of women working in STEM.

These awards reflect a deliberate and coordinated effort made by King's Physics over the REF period
to embed all aspects of diversity and inclusion which, from 2015-2020, was led by Peter Main as
HoD, bringing extensive insight from his leading role in the development of the Juno Programme
while at the Institute of Physics. The work of Main on EDI in STEM education and recruitment was
key to the establishment in 2019 of the Gender Action collaboration. The Department views these
achievements not as the end of a journey, but rather as a springboard to further development and
improvement, led by the Department Diversity Lead (Zair). Our Athena Swan action plan describes
how we are advancing this, with oversight provided by the Department Equality & Diversity
Committee (DEDC).

   Recruitment and application material have been reviewed to remove gendered language and
    appointment panels are chosen to reflect diversity in gender. All academic staff are required to
    attend Diversity Matters training.
   The diversity of speakers at events and seminars is monitored to ensure representative ratios
    and provide positive role models and behaviours.
   Flexible working hours are available for staff with circumstances such as caring responsibilities,
    with timetabled commitments scheduled accordingly. Seminars and meetings are scheduled
    during core hours of 10.00-16.00 to support staff with other commitments. Remote working on
    one or more days per week is common and staff can request a specific research day each week
    to be clear of other commitments.
   Fixed-term research staff are treated as permanent staff for PDR, training and career
    development. In particular, holders of personal research fellowships are considered on a par
    with academic staff, with the opportunity of a permanent academic post in areas of strategic
    priority (with appointment following a standard academic appointment's process).
   Staff are supported in research funding applications according to their individual circumstances.
    Care is taken to ensure panel diversity on all internal funding schemes, whether co-ordinated at
    Faculty or University level, with EDI assessment of funding outcomes.
   The University's Parents' & Carers' Fund and Carer’s Career Development Fund provide
    financial support for staff to maintain research progress, including, e.g., conference attendance
    and other research travel for researchers with caring responsibilities (REF5a §3.4)



                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                    Additional support is provided where needed – two examples are a member of staff who was
                     provided with a postdoctoral researcher during a period where their young child had a prolonged
                     illness and the case of a seriously ill colleague supported in their desire to continue research
                     through reassignment of teaching workload to others.

More than a quarter of our staff (27%) do not identify as white and the department recognises the
inequality experienced by BAME people. We are keen to address these issues and remove barriers
for researchers from different backgrounds. Research Groups held discussion sessions in the light
of the 2020 civil rights movements during which BAME colleagues shared their experiences. King’s
holds a Race Equality Charter Bronze Award, is a member of Stonewall Diversity Champions and
the Business Disability Forum.

Selection of outputs for REF submission took place through internal Group peer review, providing
the combined benefit of a structurally unbiased approach and better research understanding. The
gender balance of authors of selected outputs was compared with the balance of the Department
and no discrepancy was found.


2.7. Supporting researchers during the COVID-19 pandemic
Experimental research was particularly affected during lock-down, with a strong focus in early stages
on re-opening research laboratories (which have operated continuously since June 2020) with safe-
working practices in place. Furlough of research staff was adopted where possible to extend fixed-
term contracts, with shortfall supported where required. The Department was effective in switching
all communication online and staff meetings, group meetings, seminars and online coffee mornings
provided support and sense of community. PGR students were offered laptops on loan if needed,
the university extended PGR assessment deadlines, and funding extensions were available to UKRI
and Faculty-funded studentships if research progress was affected by the pandemic.



       3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1. Research Funding
Research income has grown to a consistently higher level in this reporting period compared with the
previous period. Fig. 4a shows the total annual research income to King's Physics (excluding CDT
and other funding for PhD students). While the number of staff in the Department of Physics with


                         5
                              (a)                                         (b)
                         4
    Research Income £M




                         3


                         2


                         1


                         0
                         09 9
                         10 0


                         12 2


                         14 4
                         15 5
                         16 6


                         18 8
                         19 9
                         11 1


                         13 3




                         17 7




                              0
                            /0




                            /1
                            /1
                            /1


                            /1
                            /1
                            /1




                            /1
                            /1


                            /2
                            /1




                            /1
                         08




                             Figure 4. Research income by (a) academic year and (b) by funder type over REF period
                                                                                                                     Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

significant responsibility for research has increased by 26% from 2012/13 to 2019/20, the annual
income increased by 95%. This performance is within the context of the high number of early career
academics appointed during the period.

Our strategy for research funding reflects our research strategy outlined in Section 1: continue to
appoint outstanding researchers, focussing on early careers researchers with a vision to become
leaders of their field; increasing experimental activity; and extensive research grant development
support (§2.3). A quarter of staff submitted to UoA9 have held one or more prestigious personal
fellowships or major investigator awards since 2014. EU funding to King's Physics indicated in
Fig. 4(b) is dominated by European Research Council (ERC) awards, spanning our Research
Groups: 4 ERC starting grants (Booth, Millen, Owen, Rodríguez-Fortuño), 1 ERC consolidator grant
(Fairbairn) and 3 ERC advanced grants (Ellis, Zayats – two awards). We also obtained 1 ERC Proof
of Concept grant (Millen). In recognition of the research quality in biological physics, Garcia-Manyes
has held an EPSRC Early Career Fellowship, a Leverhulme Research Leadership Award and a
Wellcome Trust Investigator Award. In support of those starting their own research programmes,
during the REF period King's Physics has held 3 Royal Society URFs (Booth, Rakovich, Witek) and
an STFC Ernest Rutherford Fellowship (McCabe) with Marsh joining as an ERF in March 2021.
Zayats and Garcia-Manyes have been awarded a Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award
and Wolfson Fellowship, respectively. Prestigious early career fellowships have been secured by
researchers on the pathway to independence, including a Royal Astronomical Society Fellowship
(Marsh) and a Henry Wellcome Fellowship (Beedle).

In addition to standard grants from UKRI Research Councils, Leverhulme, Charities, US Funders
and Industry (Fig. 4b), King's Physics had an active role in a number of major funded research
consortia. King's led two EPSRC Programme Grants in plasmonics and metamaterials (PI Zayats):
Active Plasmonics (APLAS, £4.5M, £1.9M to King's), in collaboration with Imperial and QUB,
followed by Reactive Plasmonics (RPLAS, £4.8M, £2.4M to King's), with Imperial. In materials
simulation King's Physics (PI Paxton) was a major partner in EPSRC Programme Grant Hydrogen
in metals (HEmS, Paxton and de Vita, £5.5M with Sheffield, Cambridge, Imperial, Lancaster, Oxford,
£1.1M to King's). King's has participated in two prestigious international Simons Foundation
Collaborations: on The Many Electron Problem (van Schilfgaarde and Kozik, £1.4M to King's) and
on Special Holonomy in Geometry, Analysis, and Physics (Acharya, Physics and Salamon,
Mathematics, £774k to King's).

An STFC Consolidated Grant in Particle Physics Theory is awarded jointly to the TPPC Group in
Physics and the Theoretical Physics Group in Mathematics. The EPAP Group benefits from both
STFC consolidated grants and experimental grants for projects when under construction (for
example SNO+ and Hyper-Kamiokande). TPPC are core team members of two recently awarded
UKRI Quantum Technologies for Fundamental Physics programmes.

Within King's, major funded projects and centres have underpinned our collaborative interdisciplinary
partnerships within King's. These include the British Heart Foundation Centre of Research
Excellence (£15M) and the BHF Research Excellence Award (£6M) (Physics co-I Garcia-Manyes)
and the MRC Next Generation Light Microscopy Initiative (£1.6M, Physics co-Is Owen and Suhling).


3.2. Experimental Laboratories
Experimental research in King's Physics is accommodated by high quality laboratory space in the
basements of King's Strand Campus. The Laboratories have the stringent vibration, noise and
environmental control required for world-class research in many of our activities, particularly
photonics and single-molecule force spectroscopy. These have been developed through a
programme of investment in new laboratory space since 2010, with an £5.5M provided since 2014


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

for the creation of new Physics Research Laboratories to both accommodate growth of funded
research and provide high quality laboratory space for new academic appointments:

   80 m2 new Clean Room facility (ISO7 with ISO5 areas), forming part of LCN facilities, including
    Plasma Enhanced Atomic Layer Deposition (PEALD);
   295m2 new photonics laboratories (nanophotonics, attosecond laser and optical levitation)
   94m2 new single-molecule biophysics laboratory space
   60m2 new laboratory space for EPAP group (completion delayed by COVID-19)

Further optical microscopy research laboratories for the BPSM Group are located in the Hodgkin
Building of King's Guy's Campus (REF5a §1.3), adjacent to the Nikon Imaging Centre (REF5a
§4.4) which provides a wide range of state-of-the-art optical imaging modalities. Optical microscopy
laboratories in the Hodgkin (Wolfson Laboratory Refurbishment Award to King's Physics, completed
December 2013), accommodate the King's Microscopy Innovation Centre (MIC), which promotes
the uptake of cutting-edge optical microscopy methods for biological imaging; the MIC management
committee includes physics researchers Ameer-Beg, Cox, Spillane and Suhling from the
Comprehensive Cancer Centre, Randall Centre and Physics Department in King's.

The Strand Materials & Characterisation Facility (REF5a §4.4) comprises the Department's core
experimental facilities under the management of the facilities technician and overseen by a
departmental steering committee (chaired by the Director of Research Labs), including AFM, FEG-
SEM, cathodoluminescence, PEALD and thermal evaporation, UV-Vis and FTIR spectroscopy,
ellipsometry, supported through an EPSRC Equipment Award (£804k) and a Strategic Equipment
Award (£204k) in 2015. These facilities are available to researchers from other Departments in
King's, LCN researchers, and external users.

Additional facilities include confocal and multiphoton microscopy, nonlinear, time-resolved,
fluorescence and Raman spectroscopy, SNOM and dynamic light scattering, with £466k investment
in new equipment since 2014 to support new appointments.

King's Physics also benefits from extensive electron microscopy within the King's Centre for
Ultrastructural Imaging (REF5a §4.4, in partnership with JEOL). Since 2018, King’s is a partner of
the London Centre for Nanotechnology, and since 2011 King's Physics has enjoyed access to all
Clean Room and dedicated nanofabrication facilities housed at UCL and Imperial.

The Physics Director of Research Labs (Zayats) ensures that Department Research labs run
effectively and that there is sufficient quality provision to fulfil the Department research strategy.
Experimental research is supported by a technical team which has grown by 50% since 2014 to 6
staff, including a Technical Service Manager, Safety Officer, Clean-Room Engineer, Facilities
Technician and Electronics and Workshop support.


3.3. Computing Support
A range of local, regional national and international HPC platforms are available. A Faculty
Computing Support Team of ca. 12 staff provides extensive support on computing provision for
research, including HPC support. The Physics Director of Computing Provision (van Schilfgaarde)
provides oversight of HPC delivery and ensures there is sufficient quality computing provision to
accommodate research strategy, as well as ensuring access for students and staff with disabilities.
Lorenz chairs the Faculty Computing Committee which has oversight of new Faculty investment
for HPC, and other computing strategy.

Rosalind is the university-wide HPC cluster, supported and funded by the NMES Faculty in
collaboration with King’s IT and King's Health Partners' Biomedical Research Centres, with priority

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

for NMES researchers on Faculty-funded hardware; Physics researchers have been primary users.
The cluster infrastructure is maintained and monitored by a third-party partner, enabling continuity
of computational research during COVID-lockdown. Faculty investment in computing support during
the REF period includes:

    2013/14 £450k HPC cluster for use by NMES researchers: support for large parallel workloads
     with high core count nodes, Infiniband networking and Lustre filesystem.
    £100k investment in research storage and backup.
    2018/19 £325k additional CPU and GPU capacity for large parallel workloads with OmniPath
     networking.
    £30k p.a. annual investment for infrastructure maintenance and renewal.

Gravity is available to NMES research groups that have purchased, through grants, hardware that
is hosted in the facility, with a design that permits heterogeneity (varied CPU architectures, non-
standard GPU configurations).

King's Physics is a key partner of the Materials & Molecular Modelling (MMM) Tier-2 Hub,
established with £8.5M EPSRC funding in 2016, renewal 2020, enabled through the Thomas Young
Centre and supported by King's through £100k p.a. contribution and a Research Software
Engineer in King's Physics. The MMM Hub comprises two HPC facilities, Thomas (17,000 cores)
and Young (23,040 cores). Booth and Molteni represent King's on the MMM Management Board.

Physics investigators been awarded more than 235M CPU hours on national and EU HPC facilities
(Table 1), including time awarded through membership of the Materials Chemistry Consortium and
UKCP Consortium.

King's has recently established a new University-         HPC Facility               CPU hours
wide e-Research function to provide a flexible
research computing infrastructure for a wide range of     ARCHER       (EPSRC)           97M
computational workloads, underpinned by a £1M             CIRRUS       (EPSRC)            4M
                                                          PRACE        (EU)              129M
hardware refresh of Rosalind and a £800k Research
                                                          DiRAC        (STFC)             5M
Data Storage platform (online 2021).                      Table 1. Competitively awarded CPU time.



    4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1. Partnerships & Collaborations
The development of research collaborations, networks and partnerships, both formal and informal,
many interdisciplinary, lies at the heart of our research strategy (see Section 1.3).

4.1.1. National & International Research Partnerships
Our regional partnerships, summarised in Section 1.3 and Fig. 5, provide a strong framework for the
development of successful research collaborations. The London Centre for Nanotechnology (co-
Director Zayats) is a strategic partnership between King's, Imperial College London and UCL,
strengthening collaboration within London, providing a platform for equipment sharing, and a forum
for networking, joint lectures, and workshops. In biomedical science, the Francis Crick Institute
was founded through partnership with King's, Imperial and UCL, enabling university researchers to
bring physical sciences expertise to create new collaborations, through hosting of research at the
Crick (Garcia-Manyes, Elosegui-Artola) and co-supervision of PhD students (Lorenz, Garcia-
Manyes). Our partnership with Imperial, QMUL and UCL in the Thomas Young Centre (co-Director
Molteni) provides a vibrant interdisciplinary and collaborative environment with an active programme
of events and training for early career researchers. The TYC has brought new funding to King's

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Physics with partners such as Argonne National Laboratory, EOARD and NPL, and enabled the
award, and renewal, of the £8.5M MMM HPC Hub (see §3.3). The TPPC and EPAP Groups have
recently joined the NExT Institute for New connections between Experiment and Theory (with
Southampton, RHUL, QMUL, Sussex, RAL) and P&N led the creation (with Imperial and UCL) of the
London Institute for Advanced Light Technologies (London Light, co-Director Zayats).

Our partnership with Cambridge, Imperial, Oxford and UCL of the JC Maxwell Node of CECAM
(Node management committee Molteni) places King's Physics at the heart of European research in
theoretical and computational condensed matter physics, chemistry, biology and materials science.
The transCampus initiative between King's and Technische Universität Dresden (TUD, REF5a
§1.5) has led to an MoU for the development of new collaborations in materials research between
London and TUD. A collaboration on next generation solar cells was established within the PLuS
Alliance University Network (King’s, University of New South Wales and Arizona State University).




         Neuroscience

      Comprehensive                      Dental, Oral &
      Cancer Centre                   Cranofacial Sciences

  Centre for Stem Cells &                Biomedical Imaging &
  Regenerative Medicine                    Imaging Sciences
                            NMES              Pharmaceutical
    Randall            Engineering
                                                Sciences
    Centre
                  Chemistry      Maths
                      BiPAS      CANES
                            Physics

                                                                            QMUL
                     Southampton
                                                                RHUL
                               Sussex             RAL

           Figure 5. Primary interdisciplinary and regional research collaborations and partnerships.


4.1.2. International Experiments
Members of the EPAP Group are part of the T2K, Superkamiokande, SNO+, MiniBoone, IceCube,
IceCube-Gen2 and ANNIE international experimental neutrino collaborations, and have
international leadership of the Hyper-Kamiokande experiment (Di Lodovico is joint spokesperson).
During the REF period the Group contributed to new results in CP violation in the neutrino sector
using the T2K experiment (near detector steering committee Di Lodovico). They are also
investigating neutrinoless double beta decays with SNO+ (analysis coordinator Wilson). The Group
has played a leading role in new papers from the IceCube experiment in probing beyond-the-
Standard-Model physics. EPAP members have also made critical contributions to the Hyper-
Kamiokande experiment which started construction in 2020.



                                                                                                    Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

TPPC Group members play leading roles in the MoEDAL experiment at CERN searching for exotic
particles at the LHC (Physics coordinator Mavromatos & Theory coordinator Ellis) and are members
of the CTA, LIGO, LISA (Chair of Dark Matter Package of the Science Interpretation working group:
Blas), Euclid, SKA, and Darkside experiments. The Group are core team members of the Atom
Interferometer Observatory and Network (AION, Head of publication board: Ellis).

4.1.3. Research networks & collaborations
King's Physics benefits from participation in a number of international research networks and
collaborations. EPAP Group are members of the EU MSCA-RISE project Japan and Europe Network
for Neutrino and Intensity Frontier Experimental Research (JENNIFER2, UK and WP3 lead Di
Lodovico) and the international NuSTEC (Neutrino Scattering Theory Experiment) Collaboration
(Board member Katori). In nanophotonics we have participated in the FORESEEN Consortium and
associated FET-Open CSA Nanoarchitectronics (Steering Committee Zayats), and the Erasmus
Mundus programme NANOPHI (Management Board Zayats), involving European and Asia-Pacific
research groups. In ultrafast photonics Zair participates in the high repetition rate attosecond physics
EU initiative at the Extreme Light Infrastructure (ELI-Alps) facility and is actively involved in the
Laserlab Europe Consortium. In materials and molecular modelling, the TSCM and BPSM Groups
have been active participants of the European Psi-k network (Molteni leads WG "Molecules,
Biomolecules, Macromolecules"; Booth is a member of WG “non-perturbative many-body methods”).

King's Physicists have participated in various EU COST Actions since 2014, and have been involved
in a number of funded collaborative international research programmes, including two Simons
Collaborations (§3.1), the Novel Materials Discovery Laboratory (NoMaD) EU Centre of Excellence
and FET-OPEN Mechanical control of biological function (MECHANO-CONTROL).

The department has also benefited from numerous national networks beyond those identified in
§4.1.1., including CCP5 (Executive Committee: Lorenz), CCP9 (Project spokesperson: Molteni), the
Materials Chemistry Consortium (Advisory Board: Lorenz), British Optomechanics Research
Network (steering group: Millen), DMUK (Chair: McCabe) and co-leadership of EPSRC NetworkPlus
on Emergence and Physics Far From Equilibrium (Bhaseen).


4.2. Engagement with research users and beneficiaries
4.2.1. Scientific Software Development
King's Physics have made extensive contributions through code development available to the
community, enabling widespread adoption of developments pioneered at King's. Two highlights are:

   Questaal, led by van Schilfgaarde, is a suite of programs for electronic structure simulations,
    including advanced beyond-DFT electronic structure code. Questaal was an EPSRC CCP9
    flagship project (with Daresbury, QUB) enabling the development of a community code, with
    regular workshops and online tutorials. Questaal now has approximately 300 registered users
    internationally.
   GRChombo (Collaboration co-founder Lim, with QMUL and Argonne National Laboratory) is a
    numerical relativity code with applications to cosmology and astrophysics with about 40 papers
    to date. The collaboration includes Intel, whose interest stems from GRChombo’s pioneering
    use of their next generation MIC architecture, while the code is now used as a benchmark for
    the procurement of 4 UK Tier-1 HPC systems under the DiRAC-3 infrastructure upgrade.

4.2.2. Partnership & Collaboration with Industry
Wide-ranging engagement with industry and government partners has benefited the department
through research funding, career development for early career researchers and new pathways to

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

impact. This has involved industry-funded projects, partnership on UKRI awards, secondments and
through direct collaboration. Some examples include:

   Microsoft, using Questaal to help design its next-generation (JMRAM) superconducting
    computers able to run 100 times faster with 100 times less energy.
   The Atomic Weapons Establishment on materials at high pressure, supported by both
    industry and EPSRC funding and including a secondment into King's Physics.
   Kennametal, European Thermodynamics, Johnson & Matthey and BIOVIA with EPSRC and
    industry funding to design Eco-Friendly thermoelectric materials.
   Major steel companies and Rolls-Royce on atomistic modelling of alloys and metal corrosion.
   London-based SME Rahko on quantum machine learning, supported by InnovateUK funding.
   DSTL on metamaterials, resulting in a joint patent application.
   Various Photomultiplier tube companies (ET enterprises, Hamamatsu, HZC) to develop
    products for Hyper-Kamiokande.
   Instrumentation companies, such as Photek in microscopy innovation, and Luigs & Neumann
    and Lumicks for nanomanipulation of biological specimens.

4.3. IP and Commercialisation
Research by Green in King's Physics in 2010 demonstrated the use of conjugated polymer
nanoparticles in imaging biology; the resulting patent (WO 2011039535) was licenced to Stream Bio,
founded in 2015 to exploit this technology. Stream, which was awarded a 2018 Institute of Physics
Business Award for Outstanding Innovative Work on conjugated polymer development and
commercialisation in the realm of medical diagnosis, has established a base within the UK High
Value Manufacturing Catapult.

King's research since 2014 has led to a number of new patents, which we have supported with
funding to advance these innovations on the pathway to impact (see §1.5). For example,
development of metamaterial-based hydrogen sensors (WO/2014/184530: Zayats, Dickson & Nasir)
has been supported through the EPSRC IAA to develop a proof of concept, followed by collaboration
with QinetiQ on development and prototyping, with the collaboration supported by secondment of a
QinetiQ researcher to King's Physics and a Royal Society Industrial fellowship (Nasir). This, and a
novel emissive metamaterial device (patent WO/2018/134592), were showcased at the 2018 SPIE
Photonics Europe Innovation Village and the KTN Metamaterials Showcase (Birmingham, 2019).


4.4. Outreach, Public Engagement and Contributions to Society
As described in Section 1.5, King's Physics is committed to engagement with diverse communities
through our research. Most departmental staff are active in outreach, encompassing a wide range
of activities. Important examples of our work are two of our impact case studies: the Dark Matter
Season at Science Gallery London, and Schools in Developing Countries to widen participation in
research. In addition to a large number of media interviews and the usual talks to school children,
examples include:

   London Light has celebrated at King's the international day of light with exhibitions open to
    the public where the theme of light is explored through, side-by-side, artworks and photonics
    demonstrations.
   Regular participation by many staff in events around London for the public such as Pint of
    Science, Science Gallery Lates, and Dark Matter Days on Halloween, leading to public talks
    and YouTube videos.


                                                                                          Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   Destination STEMM: A Windsor fellowship programme providing mentoring for disadvantaged
    and minority race students hoping to study STEMM subjects at university.
   King's Physics researchers contributed to the Royal Society Summer exhibition in 2015 on
    monopoles, 2018 on photonics and 2019 on neutrinos.
   Science talks at festivals such as the Secret Garden Party, Bloomsbury Festival, Hay-on-
    Wye science & philosophy festival, the New Scientist Science Festival, ArtBasel festival,
    Athens Science Festival and short courses open to the public at the Royal Institution.

4.5. Wider influence and contributions
Grant/Fellowship Committees:
Many roles on funding panels include: STFC Ernest Rutherford Fellowship Panel (Fairbairn and
Wilson); STFC Particle Physics Theory Panel (Fairbairn); EPSRC Quantum technology
Fellowship Panel (Zayats), Engineering Programme Grant Panel (Richards), standard mode
panels (Dickson, Zair); and tier-2 HPC resource allocation panel (Booth). Garcia-Manyes –
Wellcome Trust Investigator Award panel. Baletto – La Caixa Foundation Postdoctoral Junior
Leader Fellowship panel. Di-Lodovico was on the EU ERC Panel, the Royal Society URF panel and
the UKRI future leader fellowship panel. 7 staff are members of the EPSRC College.

Membership of National and International Committees:
Important roles in professional organisations include: Zayats – EPSRC Physical Sciences
Strategic Advisory Team. McCabe – STFC Particle-Astrophysics Advisory Panel. Katori – Chair
of the IoP Astroparticle Physics Group and member of the IoP High Energy Particle Physics
Group committee. Sakellariadou – Chair of the Gravitational Physics Division of the European
Physical Society. Baletto – member of the Royal Society of Chemistry Quantum Chemistry
Group committee. Lorenz has been treasurer of the RSC/SCI Colloid and Interface Science
Group. Richards was Chair of the Standing Conference of Physics Professors (2013-2015, renamed
Heads of Physics Forum during his term).

Steering groups/ advisors/ International Advisory Committees:
King's staff have held a variety of advisory roles at different labs and institutes. Di-Lodovico – LHC
experiments and Long Baseline Neutrino Committees. Ellis – International Advisory Committee
for the Higgs Centre (Edinburgh), Kavli IPMU (Tokyo) and the T.D.Lee Institute (Shanghai). Ellis
is Chair of the IAC for the Chinese Jinping Laboratory. Mavromatos – Advisory Board of the Stefan
Meyer Institute (Vienna). Fairbairn performed a periodic review of the CNRS lab at Annecy and
Ellis at the University of Sussex. Zayats served on the Advisory Board of the ASTAR Data Storage
Institute (Singapore) and on the panel for the Future Horizons for Photonics Research- 2030 and
Beyond Roadmap (UK Photonics Leadership Group).

Prizes:
Scientific prizes won during the period of the REF include the Royal Society Bakerian Lecture and
Prize (Ellis), IoP Bates Prize (Millen), IoP Lawrence Bragg Gold Medal (Acharya), the Buchalter
Cosmology Prize (Blas), Gold Award and Cavendish Medal for STEM for Britain (PhD student
Caixeiro), IoP Jocelyn Bell Burnell Medal and Prize (PhD student Cornell).

Other Honours:
Ellis was awarded three honorary doctorates and elected a Fellow of the Indian National Science
Academy, elected Fellow of the Estonian Academy and Honorary Fellow of the Institute of
Physics. McCabe & Fairbairn were awarded IPPP-Durham associateships while Sakellariadou
was an Emmy Noether Fellow at the Perimeter Institute. Garcia-Manyes was made a Fellow of


                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

the Catalan Academy of Sciences and a member of the Faculty of 1000 in biological physics.
These are in addition to the other fellowships and awards already mentioned in (§3.1).




                                                                                  Page 21
