Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: UNIVERSITY OF LEEDS
 Unit of Assessment: UoA4
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context:
 Our submission includes 54 staff (49.6 FTE) who
 conduct theory-driven, solution-focussed research,
 reflecting excellence within four grand challenges
 (GCs: Figure 1, right):
     • Nervous system and its disorders (GC1)
     • Lifespan development (GC2)
     • Health and wellbeing (GC3)
     • Behaviour change (GC4)

 These GCs naturally overlap, building from
 the fundamental science of genetic, cellular
 and neural mechanisms of behaviour (GC1),
 through to changes in individuals over time
 (GC1&2), revealing the causes of ill-health
 across interacting populations (GC2&3), and
 ultimately understanding and changing human
 behaviour within large, complex, social and
 environmental systems (GC4). GCs align with a cross-
 Faculty University research strategy, optimising impact through
 interdisciplinary translational pipelines designed to benefit society.

 1.2 Structure:
 Operationally, UoA4 research is conducted across three Faculties: Medicine and Health (FMH -
 School of Psychology, School of Medicine), Biological Sciences (FBS - School of Biomedical
 Sciences) and Engineering (FEPS - School of Mechanical Engineering). The scale and
 complexity of our GCs demands interdisciplinary partnerships within Leeds, including
 researchers submitted in UoAs 1-5,7,11,12,14,19.

 To achieve our vision, and meet the needs of regional, national, and global priority areas, we
 conduct interdisciplinary, fundamental research investigating mechanisms of behaviour and
 developing innovative applications for our findings. This strategic approach was facilitated by
 significant investment by the University of Leeds (with co-funding) over the REF2021 period to
 create and support outstanding platforms for UoA4 research and impact, including:
    •   Wolfson Centre for Applied Health Research – based at our Bradford campus and
        focussing on patient safety and lifespan development (Wolfson)
    •   Yorkshire Quality and Safety Research group (YQSR)
    •   Centre for Applied Education Research (CAER)
    •   Centre for Immersive Technologies (CfIT)
    •   The eight research intensive Northern universities (N8) Programmes in Agrifood (N8:
        Agrifood) and the Child of the North (N8: CoTN)

 Interdisciplinary approaches support longstanding, strategically important research
 infrastructure. Strategic partnerships with the NHS, Local Authorities, Central Government, and
 Industry have shaped impactful research into neuroscience, cognition, health, nutrition, child
 development, education, and data science (particularly ‘immersive technologies’).

                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3 Research and Impact (R&I) strategy:




    Figure 2: Research and Innovation Strategy Map.

 We foster a dynamic R&I environment by actively pursuing research as a mechanism for
 generating positive societal change through realising our vision of improving psychological
 health and wellbeing (Figure 2). Our missions address global priorities, achieved through
 outward facing GCs. A ‘Push, Pull, Link, Exchange’ approach lies at the heart of our GCs to
 ensure our research leads to societal impact. We hardwire the dissemination of knowledge into
 our research (push), stimulate a knowledge demand (pull), and promote the organisation of
 activities to unite our stakeholders (link and exchange).

 Regular re-evaluation of the GCs with our interdisciplinary collaborators has reinforced the value
 of these structures, which underpin our future research plans (Figure 1). Following REF2014, we
 consolidated two GCs (‘Successful Childhood Development’ and ‘Successful Ageing’) into
 Successful Lifespan Development. This enabled a holistic approach within the GC, and
 facilitated the application of novel solutions across UoA4 disciplines (e.g. adapting children’s
 handwriting assessment technology to measure cognitive decline in older adults), and cross-
 links to UoA2’s Ageing health service research.


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our refreshed GCs provide:

    •   A flexible structure to foster interdisciplinary collaborations that address globally-relevant
        research priorities (all UoA4 staff map onto one or more GCs)
    •   A strategic framework for identifying and supporting our research strengths
    •   A principled approach to investing in infrastructure, shaping University priorities, and
        aligning our activity with major University investments (e.g. Nexus – connecting our
        researchers with business; and the Leeds Institute of Data Analytics, REF5a)
    •   A road map for fast-tracking fundamental science to societal impact
    •   Agility to adapt to societal priorities as needs arise (e.g. COVID-19)

 UoA4 contains Research Groups delivering interdisciplinary research across the GCs. These
 Groups provide bottom-up organisational structures that foster our researchers. For example,
 ‘neuroscience at Leeds’ (Neur@L) is a cross-faculty group facilitating interdisciplinary
 collaborations to investigate mechanisms of neurological diseases. Research Groups develop
 and support PGRs, ECRs, and senior researchers through weekly meetings, journal clubs, and
 feedback on grants, papers and fellowship applications.

 Applying our agile R&I strategy to COVID-19: We responded to the global coronavirus
 pandemic by mobilising our researchers and supporting policy, advisory and outreach roles.
 National and regional COVID-19 committees co-opted UoA4 staff (Section 4). Our researchers
 joined the District Gold Command scientific advisory group (Mon-Williams), evaluated impact
 on global health (Kellar), set psychology research priorities (O’Connor), and led a national task
 force addressing identification of vulnerable children (Mon-Williams). We received rapid
 response grants to determine the lockdown impact on educational, developmental and nutrition
 outcomes (e.g. Fildes, L.Hill, Nash, A.Waterman). Outreach initiatives included: publishing a
 special issue on dietary behaviour research (Flint, Hetherington) and outputs on psychological
 impacts (O’Connor); hosting webinars (with Stanford University) to connect school leaders with
 health professionals (Halford, A.Waterman); briefing government (L.Hill, Mushtaq, Mon-
 Williams, A.Waterman); and establishing a counselling service for headteachers (Mon-
 Williams).

 1.4 Delivery of R&I Strategy:
 Our R&I strategy rests upon motivated, involved, and supported researchers. We operate a
 distributed leadership model involving Faculties, Schools, GC research leads, Professorial staff
 (with specific mentorship roles), and Impact Champions. Our research leaders identify research
 excellence and ensure investment in areas that have clear impact aims, and credible delivery
 plans with effective and pragmatic evaluation methods. We invest in attracting the best minds to
 Leeds (PGRs, ECRs and established researchers), facilitate collaborative opportunities (within
 the University and with external stakeholders), and provide leading edge research infrastructure.

 Our researchers drive and deliver our strategy by creating Research Groups that reflect their
 interests, skills and interdisciplinary needs. Our structures allow us to support staff in developing
 sustainable plans for progress in impactful research (e.g. via the provision of competitive Impact
 Accelerator Accounts). We support staff to develop their leadership skills and lead research
 groups. Ten Faculty Impact Champions (IC) support our impact environment (e.g. R.Lawton).
 We created the IC role in the current REF cycle to support delivery of our vision, and these
 champions provide a systematic approach to delivering high quality research and impact, and
 engagement with stakeholders. The champions are impact experts and generate significant


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impact through their own research. Their role is to ensure that impact is embedded into our
 research, and support researchers to include impact principles in their work. Our Case Studies
 demonstrate impact across all four GCs, with Impact delivered in partnership with stakeholders
 drawn from public (e.g. health authorities), government (local and central), and industry (e.g.
 food).

 Our strategy recognises that a collaborative interdisciplinary ecosystem is required to deliver
 high quality impactful research. Our GCs support interdisciplinary team-driven investigations by
 researchers at all levels. Since 2014, we have expanded our regional, national and international
 academic partnerships (Section 4) as indexed by collaborative outputs published in the
 Proceedings of the National Academy of Science (Billington, Leverhulme Fellowship in
 collaboration with UoA5); Current Biology (Mushtaq with Princeton and UC Berkeley);
 Psychological Science (L.Hill with Stanford University); and Journal of Clinical Investigation
 (Gamper with Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang, China).

 Our strategy has resulted in the creation of new centres over the REF2021 period (Wolfson,
 YQSR, CAER, CfIT). These centres provide our researchers with access to bespoke research
 space, leading edge technologies, patients, datasets and practitioners. Importantly, they embed
 our researchers within regional and national networks, and connect them to policy makers
 (allowing the acceleration of research into policy).

 Our researchers have created research infrastructure of international significance. For example,
 researchers from across the world can access the Born in Bradford (BiB) dataset, with
 A.Waterman and L.Hill providing the cognitive and sensorimotor measures within the dataset
 (for over 17,000 children). Our researchers have helped establish the Connected Yorkshire
 database which has already linked routinely collected data from education, health and social
 care for 1.4M residents. Likewise, we support the UK-based birth cohort Gemini involving 2,402
 families with twins (co-directed by Fildes). Our research infrastructure allows us to support the
 Leeds City Council (LCC) and Bradford City Metropolitan District Council (BCMDC) in
 evaluating policy implementations (e.g. BCMDC’s £0.65M investment for tutoring disadvantaged
 children). We adhere routinely to a policy of Open Access (OA) publishing for all outputs, and
 the principles of the open science framework (OSF) are crucial to our strategy to increase
 openness, integrity, and reproducibility of research using pre-registration, data sharing and
 publishing OA preprints (e.g. Data@Leeds).

 An Impact team led by a permanent full-time Impact Officer support our strategic plans to
 prioritise Impactful research. Our Impact team use ‘roadshows’ to raise awareness of the Impact
 strategy across our Schools, organise workshops to support our researchers, and create Impact
 Groups within Schools to provide peer-to-peer support.

 1.5 The Grand Challenges:
 The GCs align with regional, national, and international research needs. Thus, we match local
 capacity to globally relevant research priorities (including the UN sustainable development goals
 of Good Health and Well-being, Quality Education, and Reducing Inequality).

 1.5.1 GC1 The nervous system and its disorders: GC1 research improves understanding of
 neurological disorders, chronic pain, ageing and healthy brain function (perception, action and
 cognition), then translates this knowledge to assessment, intervention and prevention strategies.
 We meet this challenge by having a breadth of expertise spanning all levels of biological

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 complexity: molecular genetics and imaging, modelling cells, animal models of neurological
 disease, laboratory studies of human behaviour, and clinical trials. The Neur@L team applies
 interdisciplinary approaches to investigate mechanisms of neurological diseases. The
 fundamental research investigates characteristics of the spinal cord connectome (Chakrabarty,
 Deuchars, Kwok), sensory processing (Gamper, Johnston), brain control of metabolism
 (Filippi, Johnston), and general mechanisms of neuronal excitability, synaptic transmission and
 plasticity (Clapcote, Deuchars, Gamper, Johnston, Kwok, Wood). We examine disease
 states or pathologies, enabling identification of new therapeutic avenues for exploitation. We
 have specific expertise in spinal cord injury and repair (Chakrabarty, Deuchars, Kwok), where
 enhancing plasticity post-injury can lead to functional recovery. We focus on ageing (Clapcote,
 Deuchars, Kwok) where neuromodulation is used to target autonomic imbalance (Deuchars),
 and manipulation of plasticity can aid memory improvement (Kwok). Our researchers further the
 understanding of pain transmission and chronic pain mechanisms (Gamper, Lloyd, Wood). We
 undertake genetic studies of rare diseases and characterise functional effects of specific genetic
 variants using cellular and animal models. We investigate genetic influences on the onset of
 neurodevelopmental, neurodegenerative, and psychiatric disorders (ICS#UOA4-1 Clapcote,
 Inglehearn). For example, cilia defects identified using whole-genome siRNA-based functional
 screening have been linked to heterogeneous inherited developmental conditions affecting the
 central nervous system (Inglehearn). We have identified the role of molecular and epigenetic
 pathways (Clapcote, Wood) and the biochemical markers of diabetes (Filippi, Wood) to
 generate new therapeutic targets. We have advanced the understanding of molecular and
 neuro-physiological events associated with potential brain targeted therapies for obesity and
 diabetes (Filippi, Johnston).

 Alongside GC1’s discovery science, our research has identified pathways for improving
 outcomes for those with developmental disorders (Billington, Mon-Williams), cerebral palsy
 (Holt, Mon-Williams), stroke (Chakrabarty, Wilkie), and trigeminal neuralgia (Coats).
 Collaboration with Mechanical Engineering has delivered innovative methods to investigate
 motor control, e.g. measuring human visuomotor attention (Coats, L.Hill, Holt). Our research on
 human cognitive function: language and memory (Allen, Brown, Delvenne, A.Waterman);
 perception and action (Billington, Burke, Coats, L.Hill, Lloyd, Mon-Williams, Mushtaq,
 Wilkie) has led to impact in vehicle evaluation and design, informing the newly established
 ‘Direct Vision Standard’ developed by Transport for London, based on our measurements of
 human perceptual capabilities (Wilkie). From March 2021, this vision safety standard will affect
 all >12 tonnes gross vehicle weight lorry operators entering Greater London.

 1.5.2 GC2 Lifespan Development: GC2 focusses on the psychological, social, nutritional, and
 neurological processes associated with childhood development and ageing. Using powerful
 patient datasets (including longitudinal birth cohort study BiB) we identify risk and protective
 factors amenable to intervention (ICS#UOA4-2). Our interdisciplinary teams tackle critical issues
 affecting childhood development including: nutrition (Bryant, Dye, Fildes, Hetherington), sleep
 (Nash), the social, cultural and economic factors in children’s home environments (A.Hill,
 Nash), and cognitive development (Allen, Nash, A.Waterman). Understanding how
 neurodevelopmental disorders affect outcomes (and early identification) is central to our
 research (L.Hill, Mon-Williams, Nash, A.Waterman), including risks to children’s mental health
 (L.Hill, Hugh-Jones, Mon-Williams). Through these projects, we are building the evidence
 base for effective interventions (Bryant, Dye, L.Hill, Hugh-Jones, Mon-Williams,
 A.Waterman). For example, our nutrition research is leading to impact delivered through policy

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and practice increasing vegetable intake amongst preschool children (Fildes, Hetherington)
 and promoting breakfast for school children (ICS#UOA4-3). It has informed development of UK
 national infant feeding guidelines and fast-growing single vegetable product lines to support
 vegetable-first strategies by food companies (Birtill, Fildes, Hetherington). We have conducted
 longitudinal studies of cognitive development beginning in the preschool years (Nash), and
 followed the development of cognitive and motor function after entry to school in 17,000+
 children (L.Hill, Mon-Williams, Mushtaq, A.Waterman, Wilkie). Our research identifies the
 need for early screening of developmental dyslexia and detection of language difficulties with
 implications for education policy (Nash). Findings from BiB demonstrate that new service
 delivery models are needed to prevent further exacerbation of social inequality and this has
 driven policy change (Mon-Williams, Mushtaq). We have also developed and evaluated
 interventions to reduce health and social inequalities with this cohort (e.g. Bryant, Mon-
 Williams, A.Waterman), linking with the goals of GC3.

 GC2 research investigates how healthy ageing affects cognition and decline and applies the
 research to detection of age-associated cognitive impairment and dementia (Bunce, Burke). We
 are part of the UK Dementia & Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Network (Holt). We have
 expertise in the early detection of age-related neural decline using neuroimaging methods
 (Bunce, Burke, Delvenne), as well as studying memory deficits in older adults (Allen). We
 characterise depression and cognition in older adults (Bunce) and age-related changes in
 quality of life due to nutrition status (Dye, C.Lawton). In collaboration with University of New
 South Wales and Australian National University we exploit large-scale population-based data to
 investigate associations between cognition and frailty, and neurocognitive predictors of falls
 (Bunce). We explore links between endocrine function, wellbeing and sexual health through the
 European Male Aging Study and the English Longitudinal Study of Aging (O’Connor).

 1.5.3 GC3 Health and Wellbeing: GC3 works to maintain the health and psychological
 wellbeing of individuals, families and workforces through our well-established strengths in
 psychological health, nutrition and obesity research. Interdisciplinary teams apply diverse
 methods of investigation, from behavioural genetics to laboratory-based experiments,
 community-based RCTs, observational studies, qualitative approaches and systematic reviews.
 Our research has identified genetic markers of psychotic experiences in adolescents,
 identification of major risk alleles for schizophrenia in consanguineous families (Cardno), and
 obesity risk in early childhood (Fildes). We have conducted, with University of Cambridge,
 clinical trials of family therapy for young people who self-harm and investigated cause of death in
 adolescents after hospitalisation for self-inflicted, drug/alcohol or violent injury (Cottrell). Our
 research laboratories have identified psychological and physiological vulnerability predictors for
 people at risk of suicide (O’Connor), and we have undertaken trials of collaborative care for
 depression in older people (A.Hill, Traviss-Turner). We have applied qualitative enquiry to
 enhance understanding of specific physical and mental health challenges (Guthrie, Madill,
 Hugh-Jones); and investigated psychological harms associated with obesity stigma in children
 and adults (Flint, A.Hill, Stubbs). We have conducted influential systematic reviews and
 intervention studies into the health and wellbeing of healthcare professionals and, in
 collaboration with local NHS Clinical Commissioning Groups (CCGs), identified ways to reduce
 healthcare professional burnout and protect patient outcomes and safety (Johnson, O’Connor).
 We have provided ‘Improving News Delivery in Ultrasound’ workshops for public health and
 healthcare professionals, policymakers, and lay stakeholders (Johnson).



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Interdisciplinary collaborations with the NHS (Conner, R.Lawton, O’Connor, Prestwich,
 Kellar) have led to a strategic focus on patient safety, and transforming practice (ICS#UOA4-4),
 underpinned by NIHR funding that is larger than that of any other UK Psychology department
 (see Section 3, Table 1). The obesity science research within GC3 captures our values of
 interdisciplinarity, discovery science, and translation (Birtill, Blundell, Bryant, Dye, Fildes,
 Finlayson, Gibbons, Halford, Hetherington, A.Hill, C.Lawton, Stubbs). Psychology is home
 to the UK’s first human appetite research facility, established by Blundell in 1989 (noted in
 RAE2008 as having ‘particular distinction in psychobiology’). Foresight in establishing this
 laboratory has led to sustained and expanding internationally renowned research in appetite,
 nutrition and infant feeding at a time when obesity has become a public health crisis. This facility
 has grown substantially and now supports the research activity of 6 professors, 3 associate
 professors, 1 University Academic Fellow (UAF), a dedicated research dietitian, and a team of
 PGR students and ECRs. It has been at the forefront of obesity science and impact for 30+
 years. For example, robust methodologies for appetite studies (REF2014 ICS, Blundell) have
 contributed to patented satiety agents, ‘energy balance’ discovery science, and clinical trials of
 obesity treatments (Blundell, Dye, Finlayson, Halford, Hetherington, Stubbs). We have
 developed the first integrated computerised procedure for dissociating the conscious pleasure
 for food (Finlayson), which is currently used by the French and US militaries to track food
 preferences of soldiers during field training. This tool has already improved the awareness and
 understanding of soldiers’ eating behaviour during missions and is informing changes in military
 ration policy.

 1.5.4 GC4 Behaviour change: GC4 builds on research across GC1-3 to deliver improved
 societal health and wellbeing guided by the WHO’s identification of behavioural risk factors as
 the leading causes of morbidity and mortality. Health-oriented behaviour change research at
 Leeds has more than 20 years of continuous funding. GC4 contributes to a better theoretical
 understanding of effective behaviour change techniques (Conner, R.Lawton, O’Connor,
 Prestwich), and examines specific mechanisms of action through large scale, complex
 interventions, systematic reviews, and meta-analyses of behaviour change interventions.
 Specifically, we use behaviour change to improve human health through the prevention and
 management of chronic stress (O’Connor), obesity, diabetes, depression, cancer, persisting
 and emerging infections, and maintaining medication adherence (Kellar). We focus on changing
 behaviours related to smoking (Conner), children’s eating behaviour (Birtill, Fildes,
 Hetherington), breakfast consumption (Dye, C.Lawton), physical activity and weight loss
 management (Blundell, Finlayson, Gibbons, Halford, Prestwich, Stubbs), blood donation
 (Conner), cancer screening attendance and vaccination (O’Connor), and improving patient
 safety (R.Lawton).

 NIHR has funded intervention development that NHS Trusts use to reduce ‘never events’
 occurring when feeding tubes are accidentally placed in the lungs with potentially fatal
 consequences. This training has been disseminated to >1000 NHS staff (ICS#UOA4-4). The EU
 funded NoHoW project is an example of a large scale, multinational, interdisciplinary project that
 integrates expertise from GC3 and 4, developing digital technologies to objectively measure
 energy balance for long-term weight management (Stubbs). The MRC/NPRI funded smoking
 prevention projects involving 6,000 adolescents from Yorkshire and Staffordshire (Conner)
 shows the scale and significance of our research. This low-cost school-based intervention, that
 successfully reduces adolescent smoking initiation, is being licensed directly to Local Authorities
 to be implemented in secondary schools across the UK. Our collaboration with specialists in

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 medicine, public health, epidemiology, health economics, and trials to develop a novel tool
 (typology of interventions in proximal physical micro-environments: TIPPME) to improve
 systematic design, reporting and analysis of choice architecture and nudge interventions
 evidences our interdisciplinarity. TIPPME has been applied to the selection, purchase and
 consumption of food, alcohol, and tobacco (Prestwich).

 1.6 Plans for the next five years:
 We will drive forward our strategy to improve health and wellbeing, aligned with the FMH
 strategy, through our GCs (Figure 2).

 We will continue to promote interdisciplinary research by leveraging the infrastructure and
 capacity of major investments, such as N8, CfIT and Wolfson, and strengthen our partnerships,
 e.g. working with the Leeds Institute for Data Analytics and partners in the Department for
 Education to develop a National Electronic Vulnerability Index to identify ‘at risk’ children; and
 with N8 NetZeroNorth initiatives to support resilient, sustainable food systems to combat food
 insecurity exacerbated by COVID-19.

 We will further develop our thriving research environment through:
    •   Taking a strategic approach to public and patient engagement, by building sustainable
        partnerships with existing groups, increasing diversity, and developing novel methods of
        involvement using our Impact Support Team (see Collaborations)
    •   Building on our EDI strategy to promote a diverse, equitable and inclusive research
        culture
    •   Leveraging policy-maker, professional, public, industrial and academic partnerships to
        maximise the relevance and reach of our research
    •   Securing grants from major government, research council, charity and industry funders,
        and targeting longer and larger awards to ensure sustainable research income, and
        ensure our researchers maintain access to leading-edge research infrastructure
    •   Recruiting, identifying, and developing future research leaders by winning high quality
        doctoral, postdoctoral and senior training fellowships. In early 2021 Psychology will
        recruit three new outstanding Grade 8 Lecturers to align with existing peaks of research
        excellence.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy:
 We recruit and develop high-calibre and highly motivated staff to deliver - sustainably - our R&I
 strategy. Our staffing strategy constitutes a progression framework that is fair and inclusive,
 recognising and rewarding effort and excellence, built on the following principles:
    •   Support and promote existing staff e.g. Reward and Recognition Scheme
    •   Nurture and develop our ECRs for future leadership (e.g. supporting Billington, Kwok
        with successful Leverhulme Trust Fellowships)
    •   Recruit and develop world leading researchers (e.g. Morehead from Harvard University)
    •   Ensure equality of opportunity across the career span for personal and professional
        development (e.g. Mushtaq appointed Alan Turing Institute Fellow at 5%FTE)
    •   Protect researchers needing to take a career break (e.g. caring or maternity duties)
        through the Faculty Academic Development Fund


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The staffing strategy is underpinned by our commitment to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 (EDI). UoA4 staff comprise: 35% Professors; 41% Associate Professors/Senior Lecturers; 17%
 Lecturers and 7% UAFs (REF5a). Our overall gender ratio within UoA4 is 53%F:47%M. Since
 REF2014 we have promoted 3 lecturers to Grade 8 (2F, 1M); 15 lecturers to Associate
 Professor (10F, 5M);       3 UAFs to Associate Professor (2F, 1M); 4 Associate Professors to
 Professor (1F, 3M), made 2 new strategic appointments to Professor (2M) and 2 to Associate
 Professor (2M), and recruited UAFs across each of the GCs (4F, 3M). Within the promotions
 materials we invite staff to inform us of BAME and disability status, however this is voluntary. We
 have only 6% of staff within our promotion cases who identify as BAME (see item 2, EDI
 strategic plan below).

 Specific recruitments during REF2021 include:
    •   A new Head of Psychology (Halford) to provide leadership, and enhance the obesity
        science group as lead for N8 Agrifood Nutrition/Behaviour Change Theme and one of
        three leads for the €9m H2020 SWEET project
    •   A Chair in Appetite and Energy Balance (Stubbs) with substantial H2020 funding on
        weight management (GC3 and GC4)
    •   Two Associate Professors to build capacity in patient safety (Benn) and complex
        behaviour change trials (Kellar)
    •   Seven UAFs across Psychology (Fildes, Morehead, Mushtaq), Medicine (Bryant) and
        Biology (Filippi, Johnston, Kwok). Bryant, Kwok and Mushtaq subsequently promoted
        to permanent Associate Professorships

 Strategic Joint-Appointments: We work with our strategic partners to ensure our staff can
 commit time to collaborate on mission-critical, impactful research that underpins programme
 grants and societal benefit:
    •   We supported our staff to be located within the Bradford Teaching Hospital Foundation
        Trust (BTHFT) over the last decade. These efforts increased over REF2021 and
        culminated in the creation of Wolfson. In turn, BTHFT has provided salary cover for our
        staff to work within the Bradford NHS system. For example, 80% of R.Lawton’s annual
        salary has been covered by BTHFT, with 20% of the salary of Benn, L.Hill, Johnson,
        Mon-Williams covered over strategic periods during REF2021
    •   We collaborate closely with the University of South Eastern Norway (USN) and
        supported the creation of the Norwegian Centre for Immersive Technologies. USN have
        covered 20% of Mon-Williams’ salary to enable this collaboration
    •   The N8 covers 20% salary to support Dye’s Nutrition and Behaviour Change lead role

 Internships: We created an industrial variant of our Psychology BSc degree to allow students to
 undertake paid internships within their research projects over a one-year period. We have
 embedded 50 fully-funded year-long interns in our research centres (e.g. YQSR) and projects
 (e.g. BiB) and hosted 8 fully-funded postgraduate Data Scientist Internships over the
 REF2021 period. This strategy ensures that there is a direct channel of talent developing real
 world experience (with existing PGRs recruited from these cohorts).

 2.2 Staff development and support:
 We have made significant investments in staff development across our GCs; embedded EDI
 processes within our strategy, and provided support for staff development and progression. The
 University has a Vitae HR Excellence in Research Award. A recent internal 10-year review

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (01/21; REF5a) highlighted achievements, including: 10 days development time as an
 entitlement; and implementing schemes to recognise researcher contributions to supervision,
 funding and teaching. All these areas came from open meetings and feedback from our
 researchers (HR excellence Concordat).

 Each staff member has a mentor for the Staff Review and Development Scheme (SRDS) and
 Academic Annual Meetings (AAM). These processes ensure mentorship for progression and
 promotion; the SRDS enables reflection on annual research achievements, goals, and needs,
 whilst the AAM provides a platform to plan research and impact according to workloads. We flex
 the workload model to accommodate periods of heightened research and impact activity,
 corresponding to specific leadership demands. Thus, we manage staff time flexibly to respond to
 the changing demands of the research environment (e.g. COVID-19). We specifically recognise,
 reward, and support Impactful research within our workload model (5%FTE allocation for each
 Impact activity).

 Our seminar programmes encourage staff networking, and engagement with visiting
 researchers, e.g. Psychology have held >60 research seminars over the REF period attracting
 audiences from across UoL with speakers varying from ECRs to internationally-renowned
 researchers based in the UK and overseas. Collaborations with these external researchers have
 produced publications (Billington, Bunce, Bryant, Fildes, Finlayson, L.Hill, Mon-Williams,
 Mushtaq, Stubbs) and grant applications (e.g. two successful applications from the Global
 Challenge Research Fund: Madill). Our Schools have invested significantly in promoting
 equality by sponsoring places on career development programmes, such as Aurora (Leadership
 Foundation for Higher Education), to support women with leadership aspirations in academia
 (Havelka, Hugh-Jones, Kwok, Lloyd, A.Waterman).

 2.3 Equality, diversity and inclusion:
 UoA4 benefits from strong leadership to deliver on EDI goals. All staff have mandatory EDI
 training to raise awareness of unconscious bias. In November 2019, Athena Swan Gold was
 awarded to the School of Medicine (the first Medical School in the UK to receive Gold Award),
 and Silver to the Faculty of Engineering. FBS has held Bronze since April 2017 then Athena
 Swan Silver in May 2020. Athena Swan Bronze was awarded to Psychology in 2014 and
 Athena Swan Silver in May 2019.

 We have an EDI committee checking progress against Action Plans to achieve EDI goals using
 a self-assessment process involving an ongoing cycle of information gathering, analysis, and
 evaluation. We embed EDI monitoring across UoA4 schools and remain vigilant to ensure that
 gender ratios match Russell Group (RG) benchmarks (e.g. Psychology met female RG
 benchmark at grade 8 in 2016/17 and at all levels in 2017/18). EDI representatives attend
 Faculty and School Senior Management Teams, embedding equality at every level of University
 business. We prepare staff for promotion through regular Promotion Workshops, mentoring, as
 well as our Athena Swan Champions reviewing draft promotion applications.

 EDI strategic outcomes include:
    •   Adherence to UoL Code of Conduct and mandatory staff training on EDI
    •   Enhanced flexible working provision
    •   Extension of fixed-term contracts to the end of a period of parental leave to ensure
        access to redeployment and other support


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Facilities to support women on return from maternity leave to breastfeed (e.g.
        private rooms for feeding, expressing/storing breastmilk)
    •   Improved identification and reporting of unacceptable behaviour, including
        bullying, sexual and racial harassment
    •   An Academic Development Fund – awarding researchers up to £15k to maintain
        career trajectory during or following extended leave for family reasons or illness

 Our strategic EDI plan for the next five years will tackle the following priorities:

    1. Enhancing the leadership pipeline by supporting and promoting more women and
       BAME groups to grades 9 and 10 (Associate Professor/Professor)
    2. Increasing BAME and socioeconomic diversity across our staff at all levels
    3. Providing support for PGRs who need to leave their studies early
    4. Targeting mental health and well-being support to staff identifying as LGBTQ+
    5. Improving opportunities and access for staff with a disability, and identifying and
       removing barriers for career progression linked to protected characteristics

 We embed strategic EDI goals across Schools in alignment with the University
 Framework. Regular monitoring and analyses of REF data by gender, BAME and
 protected characteristics help us to monitor and meet our EDI objectives.

 Our investment in the Wolfson allows our researchers to tackle directly issues of race,
 place, and disadvantage with studies (e.g. BiB) investigating the factors which hinder
 social mobility. Mon-Williams is a scientific adviser to the Social Mobility Commission
 and our researchers provide expertise to the Department for Education’s ‘opportunity
 area’ social mobility programme (L.Hill, Morehead, Mushtaq, A.Waterman). The
 creation of a physical presence in Bradford (where there is high ethnic and
 socioeconomic diversity) is part of our strategy for improving our EDI through Wolfson to
 create a future channel of talent from underrepresented groups.

 2.4 Recruitment, training and supervision of PGR students:
 We recruit International and home PGR applicants through open competition and targeted
 contact (where identified candidates are required for funding schemes). An investment of
 >£10M created 110 new PhD positions across the University for 2015 and 2016. UoA4
 received eight of these (three with cross-Faculty supervision) and we have attracted other
 prestigious PhD funding awards including:

    •   White Rose Doctoral Training Partnership ESRC Network scheme (‘Inequalities
        and Cognitive Development’) in partnership with BIHR
    •   ESRC Collaborative awards with industry partners (e.g. Danone, Purely Nutrition)
    •   MRC funded PhDs between Schools of Medicine and Psychology (nutritional
        intervention for phenylketonuria and cognition in cystic fibrosis)
    •   BBSRC shared studentships between School of Psychology and FBS (stress and
        nutrition)
    •   Endowed scholarships shared between Schools of Medicine and Psychology
        (renal disease and patient behaviour); and Food Science and Technology (oral
        processing; hibiscus and cognition)
    •   Piers Mullan award (School of Biomedical Sciences, FBS)
    •   Alumni funded scholarship for UC Berkeley graduate to undertake a PhD in Leeds

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We provide an interdisciplinary training environment, collaborations across Faculties, and
 excellent research facilities. UoA4 supervised 364 PGRs including professional research
 doctorates (PhD/MD awarded:170; current: 97; DClinPsych awarded: 87; current: 10) many of
 whom had cross-Faculty supervisory teams (Faculties of Arts, Engineering, Earth and
 Environment). Similarly, UoA4 staff supervised PGRs based elsewhere in the UoL e.g. Schools
 of Design, Food Science, Healthcare, Computer Science). Our Postgraduate Research
 Experience Survey (2019) reported 82% were satisfied with their experience of training and
 supervision.

 We benefit from an Organisational Development and Professional Learning team (ODPL,
 REF5a) who provide training to PGR supervisors. Senior staff mentor new supervisors. We
 monitor PhD progress through bespoke software - GRAD (Graduate Record of Achievement and
 Development). Each PGR has dedicated funding to support research costs, training and travel.
 Supervisors meet students at least monthly and record these meetings on GRAD. Independent
 assessors undertake annual formal progress reviews to guide PGRs as they progress through
 the PhD. All schools have a Director of PGR Studies, overseeing PGR life and providing pastoral
 oversight.

 UoL infrastructure investment ensures an engaging and responsive PGR environment. PGRs
 have dedicated work areas, access to labs, and laptops for flexible working. We have large,
 dedicated open plan offices for first year students and smaller, shared offices for final year
 PGRs. There are PGR social meeting areas with kitchen facilities to promote group cohesion.
 We provide PGRs with local inductions on arrival and, with the supervisory team, develop and
 agree a training plan that we review and update at least annually.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income:
 (plain text gives total value of individual awards, bold refers to UoA4 share of income/award
 value this REF period, italics refers to total (cumulative) award values)

 To support excellence in research we have a diverse portfolio of funding sources, which drive
 innovative and impactful research across GCs. The total value of research awards was £49.8M,
 (£19.3M UoA4 staff) and expenditure on these grants of £15.2M across the REF period (Table
 1). Awards directly to UoA4 have more than doubled since REF2014 with UKRI being the
 greatest single funding source (£5.3M). This total includes strategically important EPSRC,
 BBSRC and ESRC Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) awards.

 Our greatest increase in funding support since REF2014 is from UK Central Government, Local
 Health and Hospital authorities. The value of these specific awards has increased nearly 300%
 (to £4.2M) including NIHR awards increasing from £0.3M (REF2014) to £2.7M (Table 1).
 Research awards from the UK-based charity sector has doubled since REF2014. We have also
 maintained funding from other sources including EU, industry (e.g. UK based ARUP and global
 food brands) and non-industry funders such as Highways England, and the US Department of
 Defense. Grant capture was ~£2.4M per annum from all sources.




                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                            Awarded                        Expenditure
                                     REF2014     REF2021              REF2014     REF2021
  UoA4 Value                         £7,985,428 £19,303,178          £12,722,160 £15,215,359
  Funding breakdown
  BIS Research Councils              £2,487,644     £5,263,873        £4,161,156      £4,150,593
  UK Based Charities                 £2,254,862     £4,646,701        £3,542,956      £2,707,201
  UK Central Government,
                                     £1,139,247     £4,176,201        £2,501,290      £3,064,998
  Local Health Authorities**
  Non-EU                               £325,640     £1,176,319          £483,182      £1,413,333
  EU Govt                          £678,439   £1,953,065                £837,152      £2,350,138
  EU Other                         £489,384     £462,748                £351,595        £434,966
  UK Industries / Public
                                   £603,212   £1,478,569                £835,828      £1,071,619
  Corporations
  UK Other Sources                   £7,000     £145,701                   £9,001        £22,511
            **including NIHR       £334,900   £2,684,240                  £58,390     £1,938,565
 Table 1: Awards and expenditure REF2014 compared to REF2021

 We benefit from dedicated support in generating and maintaining all funding applications,
 including Research and Innovation Development Managers in all Faculties. We enjoy specialist
 grant administrators using bespoke software (KRISTAL) for costing grants appropriately to
 ensure research sustainability. Our schools all have business and finance managers who assist
 in ensuring continuity of service from pre to post-award. A dedicated University EU research
 office and major grant initiative team supports applications and management of large awards.

 GC funding examples:
 GC1 awards align with MRC/BBSRC priorities of resilience, repair, replacement, and healthy
 ageing. Substantial funding supports research into the mechanisms underlying control of
 sensory processing, and pathological changes in spinal cord injury, neurodegeneration, chronic
 pain and resistance. Funding includes UKRI: MRC (Filippi £1.2M, Gamper £0.7M + £0.4M,
 Gamper/Wood £0.5M, Kwok £0.4M), BBSRC (Clapcote/Johnston £0.4M, Gamper £0.5M,
 Deuchars £0.4M), EPSRC (Wilkie £0.7M, Billington £1.2M); Charities including the Wellcome
 Trust (e.g. Gamper £1.1M, Wood £1.1M, Deuchars £0.5M + £0.4M, Filippi, Kwok),
 Leverhulme (Billington), the Dunhill Medical Trust (Clapcote, Deuchars); Wings for
 Life/International Spinal cord Research Trust (Kwok, Deuchars) and EU funding (Inglehearn
 €3.2M ITN). Collaborative research grants with partners in China, the Czech Republic, and
 France build on strategic partnerships established within GC1.

 GC2 examines societal, educational and health determinants of childhood development and
 significant infrastructure funds were acquired to support these activities (e.g. £3.6M government
 funded Northern Health Science Alliance, Bryant, Mon-Williams). We lead and participate in
 large-scale programmes to improve the life chances of children e.g. "Better Start Bradford”
 (Bryant, Mon-Williams, A.Waterman, £49M National Lottery Community Fund:) funded until
 2025 to ensure a lasting research legacy for the community. Similarly, “ActEarly: a City
 Collaboratory approach” (Figure 3), involves a multistep interactive cycle with local communities
 at the heart of decision-making and active participation in promoting health and wellbeing
 (Bryant, Mon-Williams, £7M MRC PRP,). The Education Endowment Foundation have
 supported research exploring handwriting and vision interventions in the classroom (Mon-


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Williams, £0.7M combined,). Computer based systems delivered
 interactive, group Physical Therapy to children with
 Cerebral Palsy (Holt, £0.4M DoH) and an EU
 Horizon2020 funded project SUITCEYES improves
 interactive communication possibilities for people
 with deaf blindness (Holt, £0.4M). The Leeds
 Teaching Hospitals Trust, Leeds Community
 Healthcare Trust and Alzheimer’s Research UK
 have supported our healthy ageing research
 (Bunce, Burke). A recent rapid award was
 granted to examine the impact of COVID-19
 related school closures on foundation skills in
 reception children (Nash, £0.6M ESRC).

 GC3 addresses global health challenges from
 mental illness, self-harm and suicide through
                                                            Figure 3: ActEarly organogram.
 to malnutrition, healthy diets and improving air
 quality. For example, we have attracted major NIHR and HTA funding on self-harm prevention
 and interventions such as FRESH START (Guthrie, £2.4M), SHIFT (Self-Harm Intervention
 Family Therapy) (Cottrell, £2.2M) in partnership with the Institute of Psychiatry London, King’s
 College and University of Manchester. Trials have been conducted to treat ulcerative colitis
 (Guthrie, £1.5M), investigate multimorbidity in older adults (A.Hill, Traviss-Turner, £2.3M), and
 evaluate multisystemic psychotherapy trials for children with conduct disorder (START11,
 Cottrell, £0.3M). NIHR PHR supports investigations into air pollution, outdoor air quality and
 health (Bryant, £1M). Mental health research has been funded via GCRF on substance abuse
 prevention and treatment in Assam, India (Madill,Hugh-Jones, £0.5M ESRC/AHRC);
 Mainstreaming Global Mental Health (Madill,Hugh-Jones, Cardno, £126k GCRF–EPSRC); and
 the SAMA Project – whole school approaches to youth mental health in India (Hugh-Jones;
 £1M MRC, ESRC, NIHR, and DfID). We have received international funding through
 partnerships with the US Department of Defense (O’Connor, £0.5M, £2.4M) examining effects
 of stress, cortisol and childhood trauma on suicide behaviour.

 To tackle the double burden of malnutrition and obesity, we work in partnership with the School
 of Food Science, to prevent malnutrition in China (Dye, £1M GCRF), childhood obesity in the UK
 (HENRY project, Bryant, £0.6M NIHR CDF) and healthy eating in early life (Hetherington,
 £0.5M BBSRC-DRINC:). We continue to work on satiety targets for obesity management
 including a satiety map (Stubbs, Finlayson, £0.3M Slimming World). A recent rapid award has
 been received to investigate the impact of COVID-19 UK ‘lockdown’ on the family home
 environment (Fildes, £0.6M ESRC)

 GC4 designs, implements and tests behaviour change interventions across a range of human
 health outcomes to inform practice and improve public health, e.g. smoking cessation (Conner
 £0.6M MRC/NPRI), health service and health behaviours (R.Lawton, £1.6M NIHR), and
 physical activity (Prestwich, Unilever). O’Connor and Conner lead on Yorkshire Cancer
 Research funded projects examining whether participation in bowel and then cervical screening
 can be increased (£0.3M); and Conner was part of the 5-year NIHR funded multicentre eRAPID
 project researching safer delivery and monitoring of cancer treatments (£2.2M). This GC was
 further supported by NIHR Applied Research Collaboration (ARC) funding on the theme of older

                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 adults (Benn, Conner, R.Lawton, Mon-Williams, £1.3M). Research by YQSR group has had a
 positive impact on patient safety changing professional and patient behaviour, focussing on
 embedding health services research into NHS practice (R.Lawton).

 In partnership with colleagues in Bangladesh and Pakistan, funds from the Joint Global Health
 Trials scheme (MRC/NIHR/Wellcome) enabled adapting and evaluating a smoke free homes
 intervention, involving a cluster RCT in 66 schools and 2,700 children aged 9-12 (Kellar, £1.2M).
 In the UK, we conducted a series of weight management trials funded by EU H2020, and NIHR
 e.g., RCT of weight loss maintenance (WILMA, A.Hill, £1.5M NIHR HTA); Motivating weight loss
 through a personalised avatar (MotiVar, £0.25M NIHR RFPB); Weight management for
 prevention of type 2 diabetes (A.Hill, £2M NIHR): Evidence-based digital approaches to longer-
 term weight management (NoHoW project, Stubbs, £1.3M EU Horizon 2020). We have industry
 funding to compare commercially available weight loss programmes to regular care (Finlayson,
 Stubbs, £0.4M Slimming World).

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities:
 Considerable infrastructure investment (REF5a) and specialist research technicians from the
 University Technicians Network enable us to deliver research and impact across the GCs. We
 also receive income in-kind via the Applied Research Collaboration (£1.4M over the REF
 period). The University co-founded the Leeds Academic Health Partnership in 2015, bringing
 together expertise from all the NHS organisations and universities in Leeds, alongside Leeds
 City Council. The Partnership, one of the biggest of its kind in the UK, accelerates innovation
 and improves health and wellbeing by engaging academic capabilities in education and research
 with the City’s health and social care system.

 GC1: Behavioural testing of feeding behaviour and glucose metabolism in awake, unrestrained
 rats is based within specialist animal neuroscience facilities (Filippi, Kwok). There is in vivo 2
 photon imaging, optogenetics and electrophysiology (Johnston). Bioimaging facilities (confocal
 microscopy, slide scanner, combined with atomic force microscopy) has yielded high quality
 outputs (Deuchars: 7 total; Kwok: 2 total) and produced preliminary data leading to successful
 funding from Leverhulme Trust (Kwok). UoL has invested £17M in extending the Electron
 Microscope facilities, with methods reported in key outputs for UoA4 (Deuchars). Installation of
 the Lightsheet microscope in 2018 enabled investigations into changes in neuronal connections
 and vascularisation in 3-dimensions after plasticity treatment in spinal cord injury models. UoA4
 staff use the Leeds Clinical Research Facility at Leeds General Infirmary for investigating human
 cardiovascular function (Deuchars). State-of-the-art basic and clinical science facilities create
 the capacity for world-leading research in neuroscience, including links to the Astbury Centre
 (REF5a).

 GC1&2: Cutting-edge immersive technology facilities (Billington, Burke, Coats, Mon-
 Williams, Morehead, Mushtaq, Wilkie) are used to stimulate, simulate and measure human
 perception, action and cognition: Visual perception (VR graphics workstations and headsets,
 UNITY and Vizard 3D rendering software and libraries), Motoric action (optotrak, haptic master,
 simodont, phantom omni, force feedback steering devices) and Cognitive function (eye-tracking
 and EEG systems). These laboratory systems link with larger-scale facilities within the Centre
 for Immersive Technology, Virtuocity (Omnideck, Car Simulator, Truck Simulator, HIKERlab),
 and the School of Dentistry (UoA3; Simodont suite: 30x Moog haptic dental trainers).
 Psychology houses electroencephalography (EEG) and MRI compatible equipment for studying

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 all aspects of the human somatosensory system (including touch, pain and itch; Lloyd)
 combined with transcranial electrical stimulation systems that modify electrical activity in the
 brain (Burke, Wilkie). Electrophysiological data are recorded using the Biosemi Active EEG or
 the NeuroScan SynAmps EEG system. We have integrated a functional near infrared
 spectroscopy system (Oxymon, Artinis Ltd) with transcranial magnetic stimulation equipment to
 induce cortical plasticity and assess cognition interventions (Burke).

 Opportunities for world-class research are also supported by our large-scale datasets. We
 design and lead research within the BiB cohort (Bryant, L.Hill, Mon-Williams, A.Waterman,
 £3.5M MRC and ESRC). BiB is one of the world’s most important longitudinal cohort studies
 comprising 12,453 women and their 13,818 children recruited during pregnancy between 2007
 and 2011, living within the 20% most deprived wards within England, 45% of Pakistani origin and
 half of these parents born outside the UK. BiB provides an exemplary, interdisciplinary test-bed
 to explore how socioeconomic and ethnic factors interact in determining a child’s health and
 educational trajectory. Fildes is co-director of the UK-based birth cohort Gemini involving 2,402
 families with twins. Gemini has one of the richest datasets of DNA and early life growth, with
 anthropometrics collected every 3m from birth. Gemini also has the largest contemporary dietary
 dataset of British toddlers, collected via 3d diet diaries at 21m, and repeated at 7 years with
 repeated measures of child behaviours, and the early home food environment. Gemini supports
 essential gene-environment research on early life obesity supported by CRUK and MRC.

 GC2&3: The Human Appetite Research Unit (HARU, Blundell) is the first custom-built appetite
 research laboratory of its kind. HARU has dedicated space for food preparation, measurement of
 food intake, physical activity laboratories and state-of-the-art equipment for body composition,
 energy expenditure, and utilisation (Finlayson, Gibbons, Stubbs). Facilities include wearable
 technology to measure sleep, physical activity, and sedentary behaviour, and the iDXA, Bodpod
 and Bioelectrical Impedance for body composition. A dedicated blood biochemistry lab allows
 blood draws, handling and storing samples, and performing glucose monitoring. The exercise
 suite contains treadmills, bicycles, cross trainer, rowing machine and metabolic fitness
 equipment. Feeding and cognitive testing facilities include equipment for stress testing (Dye,
 C.Lawton) and video equipment for measuring/coding infant feeding (Birtill, Fildes,
 Hetherington). Facilities for measuring all aspects of energy balance, cognitive function and
 parent-infant feeding is unique, leading to an internationally recognised reputation for nutrition
 research across the lifespan, attracting continuous UKRI, EU and industry funding for 30+ years.

 GC3: A suite of state-of-the-art laboratories equipped with specialist equipment, PCs, and
 software e.g. for the NoHoW trial ~550 participants were linked to digital tracking technologies to
 record body weight and physical activity across 18 months (Stubbs). We have furnished these
 laboratories with high-level computing, video and audio-recording, blood pressure and heart rate
 monitoring equipment. A dedicated -80°C freezer provides secure storage for human tissue
 samples.

 GC4: Dedicated laboratories for Stress and Health Research (STARlab) (Conner, O’Connor,
 Prestwich) enable large-scale stress reactivity and recovery testing (pre-test relaxation, stress
 induction and recovery suites, two-way mirror viewing facilities). The Wolfson provides bespoke
 space for supporting engagement with patients and practitioners within Bradford.




                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborative Research Centres, Partnerships and Networks:
 Aligned to the University and UoA4 R&I strategy, we drive cross-faculty collaborations, lead
 regional and national research centres, and support international networks. We recognise the
 importance of partnerships and work closely with the Yorkshire Universities (particularly York,
 Sheffield and Bradford through the ‘White Rose Network’) and the eight research intensive
 universities of Northern England (the ‘N8’).

 4.1.1 Research centres: We have outstanding collaborations and policy influence through our
 research centres:

 The Centre for Immersive Technologies (CfIT) was founded by UoA4 researchers (Mon-
 Williams, Mushtaq, Wilkie). HEIF support allowed the appointment of a Senior Project
 Manager, Project Manager and five academic leads. CfIT is an integral part of the University’s
 commitment to data science and completes the third apex of the ‘digital triangle’ within the
 University, with Leeds: Artificial Intelligence and the Leeds Institute of Data Analytics
 comprising the other two apexes (REF5a). In 2018, the University became a partner in the Alan
 Turing Institute (ATI), the UK’s national institute for data science and artificial intelligence,
 reflecting our investment in data science. The University provided a matched investment of £5M
 to address a range of ambitious challenges facing science, society and the economy (Mon-
 Williams and Mushtaq both Turing Fellows; 3 of our Postgraduate students are now employed
 by ATI). PriceWaterhouseCooper’s (PwC) 2020 report identified the University as the UK’s
 leading university for immersive research, a conclusion reflected by the UK’s Digital Catapult
 report highlighting CfIT as a major economic opportunity for the West Yorkshire Region. CfIT
 works in partnership with KPMG and PwC to showcase immersive technologies to businesses,
 and works closely with global businesses (e.g. Facebook, Barclays, CISCO). Matthew Gould,
 UK Government’s first Director General for Digital and Media, Department for Digital, Culture,
 Media, and Sport is a visiting professor, and connected CfIT with policymakers who continue to
 provide strategic direction to this centre.

 The Wolfson Centre for Applied Health Research (Wolfson) is a large (£3M) capital build
 project on the Bradford Royal Infirmary site. Wolfson is a partnership between the University of
 Leeds and the University of Bradford with the Bradford Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust. Mon-
 Williams is the academic Director of Wolfson, with three themes: Child Health (led by
 A.Waterman), Patient Safety (led by R.Lawton) and Older Adult Healthcare (led by Clegg,
 UoA2).

 Wolfson houses the Yorkshire Quality and Safety Research (YQSR) centre led by R.Lawton
 as part of the Patient Safety theme. YQSR delivers collaborative research with healthcare
 organisations across Yorkshire and Humber. This group includes three posts joint funded with
 School of Psychology (Benn, Johnson, R.Lawton), 21 staff and 6-8 externally funded PGRs.
 Currently the group has £8.5M of income, including MRC and NIHR (Programme and HS&DR)
 funding, and hosts one of only three NIHR Patient Safety Translational Research Centres in
 England, attracting £3M funding over 5 years (2017-2022). The YQSR group has an
 exceptionally strong relationship with local and regional clinical teams and the AHSN
 Improvement Academy for Yorkshire and Humber.




                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wolfson also houses the Centre for Applied Education Research (CAER) within the Child
 Health theme. The Department for Education, the Educational Endowment Foundation and
 Bradford Local Authority directly support CAER, which allows a critical mass of applied
 education and health researchers to explore and apply holistic approaches to improve health
 and education outcomes for children. Our researchers created an ‘Evidence Active Network’
 across the schools in Bradford (launched by Education Minister Zahawi, 2018). School-based
 public health partnerships are also evident in our well-established smoking prevention
 research. We have received >20 years continuous funding to develop then pilot psychology
 interventions to reduce adolescent smoking. This has reduced smoking initiation, transition
 from e-cigarettes to smoking and health costs (Conner). Links to the BiB cohort have resulted in
 a programme grant to identify early markers of risk for obesity in childhood within a multi-ethnic
 population (Bryant, A.Hill).

 4.2.1 Partnerships - Regional and National: We have formed University-wide interdisciplinary
 partnerships through joint-funded PhD and ECRs including Language@Leeds (Nash); Institute
 for Transport Studies (EPSRC, Wilkie; Leverhulme, Billington); and the School of Computing
 (EPSRC; Mon-Williams, Mushtaq). Our external networks involve partnership working with
 Leeds City Council (LCC) and Bradford City Metropolitan District Council (BCMDC), with
 formal partnership agreements created over REF2021. We have supported LCC to roll out the
 ’50 things before 5’ app (Mon-Williams), MindMate 2U (Hugh-Jones) and curate the
 longstanding LCC “My Health My School” dataset to address policy and planning needs (Dye).
 We work closely with the Clinical Commissioning Groups in Bradford and Leeds, and trial
 innovative interventions across both cities and the region (e.g. ICS#UOA4-2).

 The Better Start Bradford project unites our researchers with Bradford and York researchers
 within the £49M Big Lottery funded programme. Over ten years (2015-2025), Better Start
 Bradford is implementing 20 projects for pregnant women and families with children aged 0-3
 years. The projects test interventions to improve children’s emotional and social development
 (L.Hill, Mon-Williams, A.Waterman), communication and language development, and nutrition
 (Bryant).

 Matched investment of £1M by UoL to the N8 Agri-Food programme has achieved substantial
 success across research and policy environments. The N8 Agri-Food programme underpinned
 funding awards of £28M (with N+2 partners) since April 2015; and reported £10m value of
 applications in 2019, 149 PhD studentships at UoL with 9 new collaborative PhD studentships
 (three iCASE). N8 research has attracted funding from UKRI (2014-2019 £40.5M) and industry
 (2014-2019 £2.6M). N8 AgriFood members have influenced the Co-op’s Future Food Strategy,
 given evidence to Parliamentary committees, provided advice and consultancy to government
 departments and food companies, and contributed to UK and EU policy. N8 networks,
 investment and funding have produced new partnerships, generated income across the north of
 England, attracted research awards and supported 147 strategic and local pump priming
 awards. For example, Psychology received grants to research household food insecurity
 (Fildes), and improving access to food for older people (Dye). N8 funded an interdisciplinary
 seminar series on Psychological Approaches to Food Values (Birtill); and an ESRC Seminar
 series on Food, Options, Decisions and Waste was held with N8 partners across the UK. In total,
 30 student placements with food companies have been organised, and 29 industry partners are
 involved in externally funded projects.



                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We provide leadership to the Yorkshire and Humber Applied Research Collaboration (known
 as CLAHRC before 2019). The ARC ensures research evidence improves priority health
 services by conducting applied research, translating research into healthcare practice, and
 increasing the capacity of health services to undertake more applied research and translation
 (Figure 4). R.Lawton leads the multi-disciplinary team of researchers across UoL, York,
 Sheffield, Bradford and Hull within the ARC’s Improvement Sciences theme. The Improvement
 Science theme funds 6 PGRs and 6 industrial placement students across 5 years within School
 of Psychology. L.Hill, Mon-Williams and A.Waterman provide leadership within the Early Life
 and Prevention theme.

 We are an integral part of the Bradford Opportunity Area (BOA). The BOA seeks to help all
 children reach their full potential in life. With partners in local government, employers, the
 voluntary sector, researchers, schools, nurseries and colleges, the BOA has developed an
 ambitious plan, backed by over £16M of new government funding. The BOA is committed to
 ensuring that evidence underpins is activities and this is overseen by the ‘Priority 4’ partnership
 board (chaired by Mon-Williams).

 We play a major role within an MRC Prevention Research Partnership (PRP) award (£10M).
 The PRP award underpins the creation of a network that is exploring how ‘upstream’ influences
 (e.g. the built and natural environment including housing, education, transport and
 communication systems) can be modified to decrease the prevalence of non-communicable
 diseases including: diabetes, obesity, CVD, musculoskeletal disorders, respiratory disease,
 cancer and poor mental health. The PRP bid has three pillars: ‘healthy learning’ (led by Mon-
 Williams), ‘healthy location’ and ‘healthy livelihood’ with an ‘evaluation’ crosscutting theme (led
 by Bryant).




 Figure 4: Yorkshire and Humber ARC organisational structures.



                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2.3 Partnerships – International: We have created two key international partnerships over
 REF2021 that were built upon collaborations supported by Researcher Mobility Awards (L.Hill
 and Mushtaq). The University VC and DVC for R&I visited UC Berkeley in 2019 with Mon-
 Williams and agreed a memorandum of understanding that will allow an exchange of
 researchers and students between our organisations. In 2020, we entered a partnership with
 Stanford University and collaborated on projects aimed at supporting children during the
 COVID-19 pandemic. We have identified four specific programmes of work (Digital Divide;
 Classroom Inequalities; Mental Health; Food Insecurity) that will be our collaborative focus over
 the next five years.

 GC1: Erasmus+ exchanges with University of Helsinki have led to EPSRC funding, industrial
 collaboration with Volvo (Sweden) and high-quality publications (Wilkie). Industrial links with Lilly
 (MRC Case studentship, Gamper) and Autifony (BBSRC iCase, Deuchars) are ongoing while
 partnerships (Kwok) with DB Pharma (France) and NeuroSolv (Ireland) aim to develop new
 therapies for spinal cord injury and have led to a provisional patent application in 2019.
 Collaboration with the Czech Academy of Science (Kwok) has led to funding from the EU and
 Czech Science Foundation. Our focus on interdisciplinary research across both the university
 and further afield has contributed to these successes (Kwok, BBSRC 16ALERT, Leverhulme
 Trust and Wellcome Trust).

 GC2: Collaboration with colleagues at the Centre for Healthy Brain Ageing, University of New
 South Wales, evaluates and compares computerised neuropsychological assessment devices
 used in the identification and diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment and dementia in older
 persons, funded by the Australian National Health and Medical Research Council (Co-I Bunce:
 AU$0.7M). Over the past 3 decades our GC3 researchers have collaborated with major global
 industries in the food/ingredient, weight management and pharmaceutical sectors (Dye &
 C.Lawton e.g. Arla and Sanofi; Blundell & Finlayson e.g. Novo Nordisk, Almond Board
 California; Hetherington e.g. Danone; Stubbs, e.g. Slimming World). We have longstanding
 involvement in large European consortia with funding from EU FP5, FP6 and FP7 to EUH2020
 (Blundell, Finlayson, Gibbons, Halford, Hetherington, Stubbs).

 GC3: Research into psychological processes predicting suicide has been funded by the US
 Department of Defense (STARlab; O’Connor). Our nutrition and behaviour research on the
 importance of breakfast (ICS#UOA4-3) has been presented within the European Parliament to
 MEPs and Industry to review the national policies and health campaigns of 16 EU member
 states (Dye, C.Lawton); this also involved the European Food Information Council (EUFIC),
 representation from Danish Food Banks and Cerealia -the European network of cereal
 producers.

 GC4: Behaviour change collaborations have been established across the world: in India to
 improve mental health and reduce drug use (Hugh-Jones, Madill); in Bangladesh to investigate
 the effects of smoke-free home promotion and indoor air quality feedback on lung health,
 general quality of life, and health service use (Kellar: @ASTRA_NIHR). @IMPACT_NIHR -
 Improving Outcomes in Mental and Physical Multimorbidity and Developing Research Capacity
 (IMPACT) in South Asia (Kellar); in Canada to promote the return of lapsed blood donors
 (Conner). The EU H2020 funded NoHoW project involves three EU countries delivering a trial to
 1,627 European adults using digital technologies to deliver evidence-based behaviour change



                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 techniques for weight loss maintenance and developing digital technologies to track objectively
 energy balance and health behaviours.

 4.3 Activities and contributions to the wider research base, economy and society: We
 ensure that our research remains responsive to the priorities of key end-users and achieves
 impact by participating in national and international policy and advisory boards, funding
 committees, government bodies and research networks.

 Government advisory positions, include: Expert witness House of Commons Science and
 Technology Committee on e-cigarettes (Conner); Honorary Academic for Public Health England
 (Flint); SACN (maternal and child nutrition) (Hetherington); Obesity Review Group, Department
 of Health (A.Hill); College of Experts on Global Effort on COVID-19 Health Research (Hugh-
 Jones; Kellar); District Gold Command COVID-19 Scientific Advisory Group; Department for
 Education Opportunity Area Partnership Board; Digital Futures Commissioner; Cross Whitehall
 ‘Data Improvement across Government’ group (Mon-Williams).

 Science advisory roles, including: Yorkshire & Humber AHSN Improvement Academy (Benn);
 NIHR Steering Committee (Bryant); NIHR Data Monitoring & Ethics Committee (Cottrell); Brain
 Research UK (Kwok); NIHR Programme Grants for Applied Research (R.Lawton); NIHR Policy
 Research Programme Commissioning Committee (A.Hill); Wellcome Trust Molecular and
 Cellular Neurosciences Panel (Inglehearn); Social Mobility Commission Scientific Advisory
 Board (Mon-Williams); British Standards Institute (Mon-Williams, Mushtaq); NIHR (ARC)
 (Yorkshire & Humber) Steering committee (A.Waterman).

 Honorary awards, include: Lifetime achievement award from the Association for the Study of
 Obesity (Blundell); Yanzhao Friendship Award; 100 Foreign Experts of Hebei Province;
 International Collaboration awards, Hebei Provincial Government; Wellcome Trust Investigator
 Award (Gamper); F Wiley Distinguished Scientist award, International Society for
 Developmental Psychobiology; Aristotle prize from the Hellenic Biomedical Technology Society
 (Mon-Williams).

 Prestigious international professorships, including: Distinguished Visiting Scholar to Sydney
 University of Technology (R.Lawton); Danish Diabetes Academy and Flinders University
 (Norman Munn Visiting Professorship : Finlayson), Adjunct Professor of Pharmacology, Hebei
 Medical University, Shijiazhuang, China (Gamper), Australian National University and University
 of New South Wales (Bunce), University of New South Wales (Johnson); Affiliate Professor in
 Nutrition, Penn State University (Hetherington).

 Peer recognition for professional services, including: the American Psychological Association,
 European Health Psychology Society, Academy for Behavioral Medicine Research, Royal
 Society of Arts (O’Connor); BPS Fellowship and Academy of Social Sciences (Madill);
 Association for the Study of Obesity (elected chair: Bryant).

 Professional committees, including: Association for the Study of Obesity, Chair (Bryant); Danish
 Diabetes Association (Finlayson); Obesity UK, Director (Flint); European Association for the
 Study of Obesity (President Elect, Halford); Founding member of European Retinal Disease
 Consortium (Inglehearn); UK Society for Behavioural Medicine (Kellar); International
 Neurotrauma Society (Kwok); European Federation of Psychology Associations (Chair,

                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 O’Connor); Biochemical Society Grant Awards (Wood); National Organisation for the Treatment
 of Abuse Board member (M.Waterman); Road Safety and Simulation Scientific Review
 Committee (Wilkie).

 UKRI committee membership, including: BBSRC – DRINC steering group (Conner, Dye);
 ESRC Peer Review College (Hetherington, Hutter, Wilkie); ESRC Mental health Networks;
 BBSRC Biosciences for Health; BBSRC Neurosciences working group (Dye).

 Prestigious personal fellowships, including: Leverhulme (Billington, Kwok), Wellcome Trust
 (Nash), Alan Turing Institute (Mushtaq, Mon-Williams).

 Journal editorships, including: Memory; Psychonomic Bulletin & Review (Allen); Editors-in chief
 Psychology and Health (Conner, O’Connor); Senior Advisory Editor, Social Science and
 Medicine (Conner); Frontiers in Endocrinology (Filippi); Deputy Editor-in-Chief Appetite
 (Hetherington); European Journal of Neuroscience (Kwok); European Journal of Nutrition
 (C.Lawton); BMJ Simulation & Technology Enhanced Learning (Mushtaq); Psychology of Sport
 & Exercise (Prestwich).

 4.3.1 Activities and contributions to the economy: We support the West Yorkshire
 Combined Authority (WYCA) to drive Regional economic growth (e.g. Mon-Williams giving a
 keynote talk at the Smart Cities Exposition in Barcelona to promote digital businesses within
 West Yorkshire). Our researchers work closely with the Local Enterprise Partnership to
 provide research capacity to local businesses (e.g. Mushtaq supporting the ‘kids research
 agency’ Dubit). Our regional work feeds into our wider strategy of supporting the national
 economy through the development of data science (especially immersive technologies) within
 the creative, health, education and transport sectors. We work closely with the Alan Turing
 Institute and the Digital Catapult to realise these goals.
 We maintain excellent partnerships with national and international companies, including: Zoe
 Global (Blundell); British Nutrition Foundation (Blundell, Hetherington); Danone
 (Hetherington); ILSI Expert Group (Dye, Halford); Dubit (Mushtaq); Dupont; Boehringer
 Ingelheim; International Sweeteners Association; Mars International; Orexigen Therapeutics;
 Novo Nordisk ACTION-IO: UK; TEEN International (Halford); Novo Nordisk UK (Blundell,
 Halford); Slimming World (Stubbs).

 4.3.2 Wider Public/Patient Involvement and Engagement (PPIE): Patients and the public are
 at the centre of what we do: from early development of research ideas to dissemination
 activities. We have a track record of developing innovative approaches to Patient and Public
 Involvement and Engagement (PPIE). UoL has ten support staff who facilitate PPIE work, with
 over 770 patients, carers and service users involved in research every year, and who provide
 advice and guidance for applying PPIE within research. The PPIE team organise and facilitate
 PPI meetings, advertise for and invite members of the public to specific PPI activities, and collect
 information to monitor and assess the impact of PPIE activities. The Engaged Research Team
 draws together all areas of stakeholder engagement, providing both pre- and post-research
 proposal support including funding for PPIE at the research design phase, signposting access to
 patients and public for specific projects, a repository to share best practice, including a range of
 PPIE compliance issues (e.g., GDPR). Through the Yorkshire and Humber Research Design
 Service, our researchers have access to PPIE support for developing research ideas into NIHR
 grant applications; this includes a feedback service and access to funding to involve patients and

                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the public in the design of research. PPIE ensures that our research addresses issues that
 matter, ensuring that recruitment approaches and materials are relevant and accessible, that
 studies are respectful of participant needs, and dissemination is effective. Patients and the
 public are involved in our research advisory groups ensuring input throughout the research
 process, e.g. identifying appropriate outcome measures, training clinical recruiters or, with
 appropriate support and training, directly collecting data via interviews or focus groups. An
 example is the award winning NIHR PGfAR-funded DIAMONDs project which developed and
 tested a bespoke educational package to support people with severe mental illness and diabetes
 (Kellar). In terms of broader dissemination, UoA4 researchers have contributed to The
 Conversation, local, regional and national public engagement activities including radio and TV
 broadcasts. Be Curious is our annual research open day (established 2016), a free event
 attracting >1200 people each year and nominated at The Child Friendly Leeds Awards 2019 for
 its contribution to making Leeds a child-friendly city.
 Locally organised panels involving clinicians and older adults have participated in focus groups
 to support grant applications and proposed devices (Deuchars); focus and priority setting for:
 spinal cord research (Kwok), Alzheimer’s disease (Kwok) and cerebral palsy (Chakrabarty).
 Hetherington is a Trustee of Give A Child A Hope supporting education for vulnerable children
 in Uganda. Clapcote is a regular presenter at the biennial Family Meeting of the Alternating
 Hemiplegia Support Group (AHCUK). We hold public talks with artists and engineers and have
 active collaborations with artists (e.g. Benedict Phillips and Anzir Boodoo). Ageing research is
 enhanced by our thriving Older Adult Participant Panel with Open Days for knowledge sharing
 on healthy ageing (Burke, Coats). Specialist public events include the Bradford media museum
 ‘In your face’ interactive exhibition for face composites and facial recognition; workshops for
 police on face composite systems (Brown); and digital space workshops (Hugh-Jones). We
 contribute to clinical training regionally, e.g. Yorkshire School of Psychiatry Management; West
 Yorkshire Core Psychiatry Training Committee (Cardno).

 UoA4 are committed to co-producing our research with the communities we serve, and to
 building the research infrastructure that enables evidence to drive societal benefit. This
 underpins our five year vision to improve psychological health and wellbeing through
 research and innovation.




                                                                                          Page 23
