Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Birmingham
 Unit of Assessment: UoA 12, Engineering
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1. Overview:

 Engineering at Birmingham comprises the Schools of Chemical Engineering (CE), Engineering
 (E), and Metallurgy and Materials (MM), forming three of the seven schools in the College of
 Engineering and Physical Sciences. They are led, respectively, by Prof. Mark Simmons (43.70
 FTE), Prof. Clive Roberts (70.35 FTE) and Prof. Alison Davenport (29.39 FTE). The leadership
 work closely together, devising an interdisciplinary research strategy which provides strong
 cohesion between the different elements of Engineering at Birmingham.

 Since REF2014, major restructuring has seen the creation of the School of Engineering, formed
 in 2016 via the merger of Civil, Mechanical, and Electronic, Electrical and Systems Engineering
 and over £65M of University investment in a new School building.

 We have built on our REF2014 achievements by directing research into nine thematic areas
 which tackle research challenges identified nationally (UKRI, industrial strategy) and address UN
 sustainable development goals. Successes of our translational approach include healthier foods
 with up to 50% salt reduction and 40% fat reduction (Unilever, Pepsico, Nestle), improving the
 efficacy of washing detergents (Procter and Gamble), over 500,000 vehicles with next
 generation radar sensing (JLR) and the reduction of train delay minutes across the UK Network
 by 40% (Network Rail, Siemens Mobility). Significant successes over the REF period include:

       two UK-RPIF funded innovation centres (Centre of Excellence in Digital Systems; High
        Temperature Research Centre)
       the Queen’s Anniversary Prize for the Birmingham Centre for Railway Research and
        Education
       more than doubling our research income, to >£186M (38% UKRI), plus £36.6M in-kind
       research awards worth >£248M
       increasing REF-eligible staff by 13% FTE
       >£260M investment in infrastructure and facilities
       a diverse industry portfolio, including over 80 international, 10 FTSE 100s and SMEs,
        18% of our research income
       filing 86 patent families (230 patents) and 25 licensing agreements (compared to 54
        patent families and 13 licences in the previous REF period)
       £7.66M consultancy income
       increasing the diversity of our staff and leadership (e.g. 16% of professors are female,
        up from 2% in 2014)
       growing doctoral awards by 108% (to 916.62 FTE)

 1.2. Research strategy:

 As a UoA, our vision is to undertake transformative research with local, national, and global
 impact, reflecting institutional directives (REF5a-2.1.4) to foster a culture underpinned by
 industrial partnerships (REF5a-2.1.6) and to create “research that matters” (REF5a-2.1.1).

 Over the REF period our vision has been built on five strategic aims:

    1) Establish and sustain excellence in research that meets real-world challenges

 Six research themes represent established strengths, while strategic investment in research
 aligned with Healthcare Technologies and Living with Environmental Change (EPSRC) led to the
 creation of three new themes.


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  Theme             Leads         REF-      Doctoral Research         Research       Impact
                                  eligible  awards   Fellows          income         Case
                                  Staff                                              Studies
                                  (Schools)
  Established
  themes:
  Advanced          Green,        21 (E,      92.85      24           £41,436,125    1
  Manufacturing     Attallah,     MM)
  and Materials     Pham
  Processing        (FREng),
                    Dimov
  Communications Gardner,         16 (E)      82.5       18           £18,189,674    3
  and Sensing    Lancaster,
                 Cherniakov,
                 Cannon
                 (FREng)
  Formulation       Fryer         20 (CE)     129.35     20           £23,275,530    2
  Engineering       (FREng),
                    Norton,
                    Zhang
                    (FREng)
  Materials for     Bowen         12 (MM)     96.2       29           £26,805,106    1
  Challenging       (FREng),
  Environments      Stolkin
  Railway           Roberts,      11 (E)      40.25      14           £14,919,695    1
  Engineering       Dixon, Jack

  Energy            Ding         28 (CE,      136.37     37           £23,018,324    1
                    (FREng),     E, MM)
                    Tsolakis,
                    Steinberger-
                    Wilckens,
                    Xu
  New themes:
  Healthcare        Grover, El    18 (CE,     60         29           £13,086,149
  Technologies      Haj           E, MM)
                    (FREng),
                    Shepherd
  Infrastructure    Metje,        17 (E)      100.05     14           £16,711,618
                    Jefferson,
                    Rogers
  Materials for     Walton,       7 (MM)      21.3       21           £8,870,673
  Sustainability    Kendrick
                    (FRSC)

 Table 1: UoA12 demographics (31 July 2020)

 Each theme is designed to constitute an area of excellence in the University’s Strategic
 Framework for 2021-2026 (REF5a-2.4) through key initiatives, such as the recently funded UK
 Rail Research and Innovation Network Centre of Excellence in Digital Systems (£16.4M).


                                                                                         Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    2) Enhance cross-theme capabilities

 The University’s Strategic Framework (REF5a-2.4) galvanises our ambitions to drive forward
 and strengthen our cross-cutting research capabilities in physical metallurgy, particle and fluid
 mechanics, electrochemistry, colloid science, complex fluids and rheology, materials science
 and robotics. As well as partnering the College of Life and Environmental Sciences on
 biopharmaceuticals and the College of Medical and Dental Sciences on healthcare technologies,
 we collaborate with the UK National Quantum Technology Hub in Sensing and Timing to drive
 innovation in quantum radar, in response to the Industrial Strategy Grand Challenge in AI and
 data (e.g. Metje’s £8M for quantum sensing).

 We link to multi-scale and reduced order modelling capability with the Turing Institute and
 develop next-generation measurement capabilities in fluid and particle mechanics with the
 School of Physics and Astronomy through EPSRC Programme Grants (~£7M). EPSRC and
 Innovate UK funding (>£5M) underpins strategic growth in autonomous vehicles. Collaborative
 work with the Manufacturing Technology Centre (MTC) at Ansty comprises cross-cutting
 research in recycling, automated disassembly and automated rail systems with international
 partners that feed directly into industry, e.g. via Siemens’s Rail Accelerator and Innovations
 Solutions Hub for Enterprise.

 Interactions through our industry steering groups have identified the need to grow new capability
 in Data Science and AI towards intelligent manufacturing and automation (including Industry
 4.0). This will be underpinned by flagship activity at the fully digitised High Temperature
 Research Centre (HTRC), which we will develop as a Digital Lighthouse for Rolls-Royce
 manufacturing. We will consolidate strengths in haptics, micromanipulation, robot design and
 rehabilitation, through collaborations with the Turing Institute on intuitive human-robot interaction
 (Stolkin), energy storage (Ding) and with Computer Science via Cai’s Turing Fellowship and the
 new Birmingham Institute for Interdisciplinary Data Science and Artificial Intelligence.
 This includes the £4M Baskerville computing facility (with Rosalind Franklin Institute, Alan Turing
 Institute and Diamond Light Source).

    3) Deliver impacts through the translational pipeline

 We shape the research landscape through embedding academics in industry, learned societies,
 funding bodies, government advisory groups and key policy-making bodies. Partnerships with
 over 200 companies, an Industrial Professorship (Withey), a RAEng Industrial Chair (Y Ding), a
 Royal Society Industry Fellow (Stolkin), five RAEng Industrial Fellows, a Royal Society
 Entrepreneur in Residence, Tech Entrepreneurship Seminar Series and regular industrial
 secondments allow us to take blue-skies research to high Technology and Manufacturing
 Capability Readiness levels (TRLs and MCRLs). The UoA exemplifies the University’s
 translational research strategy (REF5a-2.1.6). 95% of REF-eligible staff work directly with
 industry, five ERDF-funded Business Support Programmes and four Policy Commissions drive
 innovation (section 4.1), while industrial-scale facilities at HTRC and MTC attract major
 collaborations. We have national and global strategic partnerships with Rolls-Royce, Jaguar
 Land Rover (JLR), Procter & Gamble (P&G), Siemens, Network Rail and Singapore Metro.

    4) Invest in world-class infrastructure and facilities

 Strategic investment of >£260M has enhanced the vitality and quality of our research. The new
 10,000 m2 School of Engineering building is opening early in 2021 (REF5a-4.2.1), at a cost of
 £65M. A £37M refurbishment of the Metallurgy and Materials building in the previous REF period
 created space for the Birmingham Centre for Energy Storage, the National Centre for
 Nuclear Robotics (NCNR) and the Quantum Technology Hub, which were completed in 2018.

 In addition to the world-leading Birmingham Energy Institute (BEI), Centre for Formulation
 Engineering and Birmingham Centre for Railway Research and Education (BCRRE), we created

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 four new strategically significant research centres: HTRC (UK-RPIF funded); the Birmingham
 Centre for Strategic Elements and Critical Materials; NCNR; and the National Buried
 Infrastructure Facility (investment totalling £90M). We won £22.6M investment for major new
 translational research facilities to drive developments at the 10-acre Tyseley Energy Park site
 (TEP, section 3.2).

    5) Attract, support and grow world-class researchers

 We have appointed staff from world-leading universities (including Harvard, Cambridge, Imperial
 College, McGill, ETH Zurich and Sydney), brought international-quality researchers back from
 industry (e.g. Profs Withey from Rolls-Royce, Green from Doncasters and Pelan from Unilever)
 and recruited leaders in translational research (e.g. Prof. El Haj) to create impact in a community
 that values equality, flexibility and openness. We empower new appointees to become leaders,
 e.g. Cox and Knowles’s prestigious UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships cross themes (Healthcare
 and Advanced Manufacturing and Materials Processing) and embrace the translational pipeline.
 We support international collaboration (e.g. via £39.8M research income from EU and
 international sources) and promote successes widely, e.g. celebrating female role models
 through the global Birmingham Heroes campaign which showcases high-impact research
 (Goldberg-Oppenheimer, Cox and Metje).

 By increasing our REF-eligible staff by 13% since 2014 we have enhanced research intensity,
 meeting our institutional objectives (REF5a-2.1.1). 206 research, industrial and knowledge
 exchange fellows are also fully integrated members of our academic community. Through our
 doctoral researchers we foster industry collaborations and train the engineers of the future.
 Doctoral awards more than doubled this REF cycle, compared to the previous, and three new
 EPSRC CDT/DTPs were established in Formulation Engineering, Hydrogen Fuel Cells and
 Structural Metallic Systems.

 1.3. Unit structure and the achievement of our strategic aims:

 Configuring research around nine themes enables us to focus on challenges and opportunities
 that emerged from our previous REF submissions (UoAs 12a, 12b, 13a, 13b and 14). Due to
 the difference in submission approach, our achievements against the strategic objectives
 outlined in REF2014 are included in the relevant theme discussions. Each theme has
 developed under the direction of senior academics, with Heads of School, College and
 Research, enabling us to set ambitious goals for 2026, described below, that ensure
 sustainability.

 Advanced Manufacturing and Materials Processing

 Over £41M in research income has revolutionised our world-leading research capabilities to
 simulate and evaluate advanced manufacturing techniques. Work in Advanced Materials
 Processing is exemplified by our unique investment casting facility at HTRC (Green) which
 unites and fulfils the strategic aims of UoA12a and UoA13b (REF2014). HTRC delivered
 substantial improvements in Al-MMC alloys (Griffiths) and in Rolls-Royce aero-engine
 component production by preventing defects and reducing scrap in casting processes; the
 ongoing impact of this work is described in the Impact Case Study, ‘Single Crystal Casting’.

 The Advanced Manufacturing Technology Centre unites the strategic aims of UoA12a and
 UoA13b to shape capability in High Value Manufacturing (Dimov, £6.4M research income)
 through growth in advanced machining, industrial photonics and intelligent automation. In
 Multifunctional Materials and Devices, specialisms include additive manufacturing for new
 superalloys (BAE Systems, Honda) and space applications (European Space Agency),
 advanced functional materials, simulation, modelling, and Integrated Computational Materials
 Engineering (£9.8M research income). Cross-disciplinary research in biomaterials is shaping
 capability in healthcare, as outlined in UoA12a’s REF2014 submission (Attallah and Cox).


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Over the next five years, High Value Manufacturing will focus on hybrid manufacturing for
 high-value and sustainable production, intelligent robotic technology for remanufacturing; 3D
 printing of functional materials, and manufacturing smart structures and surfaces. We will
 progress world-leading manufacturing solutions at HTRC (single-crystal turbine blades and
 blades for hybrid electric flight), a partnership of such strategic value to Rolls-Royce that budgets
 were protected throughout the COVID-19 crisis, and contributing to cross-cutting initiatives
 based on the post-COVID UK strategy, e.g. the proposed West Midlands £450M initiative ‘Speed
 to Scale’.

 Communications and Sensing

 Aligned with EPSRC growth areas in RF and microwave devices, our priorities emerged from the
 strategic development of Microwave Devices and Systems research outlined in UoA13a’s
 REF2014 return. Income of over £18M supports research into Microwave Integrated Systems,
 Emerging Devices Technology, Space Environment and Radio Engineering,
 Metamaterials Engineering and Antennas and Applied Electromagnetics. Our portfolio
 focuses on new concepts and technologies (IoT, 5G communications and beyond) and we are
 the largest UK university radar research team, forming the national Electro Magnetic Systems
 Interest Group in 2017 to promote academic-industry collaborations. Research in automotive
 sensors and space weather is supported by significant partnerships (JLR, Met Office, DSTL) and
 new investment in staff (Cannon, Elvidge, Themens) involving over 50 patents and major UKRI
 funding (SWIMMR, £3.7M). We delivered on our 2014 growth strategy for THz electronics
 by establishing the nationally unique THz vector network analyser facility (£1.57M, EPSRC).

 The strengths of this theme are highlighted in three Impact Case Studies. Cannon’s RAEng
 report on the impacts of space weather led to policy changes to shape international
 preparedness for potentially catastrophic space weather events (‘Space Weather Resilience’).
 Novel radar sensing technology in use by JLR has enhanced road and driver safety (‘Advanced
 Driver Assistance Systems’) and new multipurpose antennas for mobile devices have been
 commercialised via a spin-out company now valued at $20M per year (‘Antenna Technology’).
 £3.15M of EPSRC funding supports three new projects on terahertz technology, video
 sensing and micromachined circuits (Gashinova, Gardner, Lancaster) which are advancing
 the state of the art for antennas, propagation and microwave engineering for automotive sensing
 beyond the JLR impact case study.

 Over the next five years, we will build on existing strengths to impact sustainable development
 goals in Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure, and Sustainable Cities and Communities. Key
 areas are microwave, mm-wave and THz circuits and systems and radar, remote sensing
 and communications for autonomous, integrated and sustainable transport, space weather
 (Met Office, Satellite Applications Catapult, DSTL), active and passive antenna design, and
 micromanufacturing for THz electronic systems (RAL, Fraunhofer, UK Compound
 Semiconductor Applications Catapult), for new applications in remote sensing, communications
 and healthcare.

 Formulation Engineering

 Focusing on the manufacture of micro- to nano-scale structured products, this internationally
 leading Centre builds on the award of a Queen’s Anniversary Prize in 2011. As pioneers of
 formulation engineering, we fulfilled our UoA12b strategic aim to deliver impacts through
 strong industrial partnerships with P&G and Rolls-Royce, and developed new relationships
 with Mondelez, PepsiCo and Diageo. Excellence in doctoral research is evidenced through
 the refreshed EPSRC CDT in Formulation Engineering (£5.2M), which embeds students in
 companies to deliver fully translational research.

 In Soft Materials, Interfaces and Complex Fluids (including food, health and nutrition) we
 develop new energy-efficient processes employing emulsification and encapsulation
 technologies to create healthier foods and reduce waste (Norton, Zhang). Norton’s work on salt,

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fat and sugar reduction with globally leading companies forms the basis of our Impact Case
 Study in ‘Microstructural Food Design’. £13M of awards fund next-generation positron imaging
 and multiphase processing for healthcare and FMCG (Barigou, Simmons). In Resource
 Efficiency and the Environment, we shape capability in high-added-value manufacturing e.g.
 in turbine blade casting with HTRC (Blackburn) and in detergent formulations with P&G (Fryer
 underpinning sales of ~$12B p.a. (‘Transforming Cleaning’ Impact Case Study). In
 Biomaterials and Nanotechnology, UKRI and industry funding support interdisciplinary
 research in biopharmaceuticals and metal recovery from Li-ion batteries (Thomas, Overton).

 Over the next five years, we will exploit cross-cutting capabilities in Data Science and AI to
 develop doctoral training and research opportunities in the digital manufacturing of formulated
 products via a new theme, Manufacturing Industry 4.0, learning from HTRC. We will work with
 SMEs to further our expertise in imaging, and apply this to the processing of novel complex
 products (e.g. next-generation batteries, with Materials for Sustainability). We will increase
 product sustainability through clean label approaches to design of foods and minimise waste
 through new manufacturing processes.

 Materials for Challenging Environments

 Over £9M of capital awards have extended our experimental capabilities, supporting strengths in
 casting, electron microscopy, ceramics and nuclear robotics. Our flagship Rolls-Royce
 Strategic Partnership, University Technology Centre (UTC), delivered considerable impact in
 line with our UoA13b strategic aim. This includes ensuring safe operation of powder-disc alloys
 in jet engines for increased fuel efficiency and reduced emissions (Bowen), the subject of our
 ‘Aero-engine Disc Alloy in Safety-Critical Components’ Impact Case Study. The Centre for
 Electron Microscopy (Chiu) is critically important to the delivery of Rolls-Royce programmes
 (£20M funding). A new class of ultra-high-temperature Ceramic Matrix Composites for critical
 components in supersonic flights (Binner) won an MBDA Innovation award (2016). The Extreme
 Robotics Laboratory (Stolkin), which has its origins in nuclear decommissioning, now leads the
 National Centre for Nuclear Research, a major ISCF initiative. Significant achievements in
 nuclear research include the safe operation of nuclear reactors (Evans) and storage of nuclear
 waste (Davenport).

 Over the next five years, we will develop our Rolls-Royce Strategic Partnership, focusing
 on the new nickel disc alloy, RR1073, for next-generation gas turbine aero engines. UTC is
 uniquely placed to understand the processing-microstructure-property relationships required,
 and our extensive electron-optics facilities allow projects to proceed at an internationally leading
 pace. We will also focus on taking ultra-high-temperature ceramic matrix composite
 technology to TRL4. With the NCNR we will grow robotics and AI, scale up research at TEP,
 and diversify our portfolio in collaboration with the Culham Centre for Fusion Energy and Rolls-
 Royce. These initiatives will allow Robotics to emerge as a tenth independent research theme.

 Railway Engineering

 The Birmingham Centre for Railway Research and Education, the largest of its kind in
 Europe, received a Queen’s Anniversary Prize in 2017. Our strategy is to align with the themes
 of the UK Technical Leadership Group, of which Roberts is a member, investing strategically in
 key areas. This has enabled us to undertake research with significant impact upon, and
 directed towards solving, key societal issues, as set out in UoA14’s REF2014 submission. In
 Digital Systems – smart systems we lead the £92M RPIF-funded UK Rail Research and
 Innovation Network (UKRRIN), which funds our Centre of Excellence in Digital Systems and
 facilitates translation via UK and international collaborations, including Network Rail.

 We have expanded strategic partnerships in Digital systems – simulation and modelling with
 Network Rail, HS2, Siemens Mobility, Indian Railways, Brazilian Ministry of Infrastructure,
 Guangzhou Metro and Porterbrook. Our partnerships with industry have been nationally
 recognised: work with Siemens was awarded the 2020 PraxisAuril ‘Knowledge Exchange

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Partnership of the Year' and work with Porterbrook and its supply chain awarded The Guardian
 University Award for 'Business Collaboration of the Year' (2020). In 2017 our partnership with
 SMRT Corporation, Singapore’s largest railway operator, fostered new research in network
 reliability.

 International Benchmarking, Infrastructure and Climate Effects focuses on decarbonisation,
 renewable energy and the creation of the world’s first operational hydrogen fuel cell train. This
 ground-breaking work led to international policy change (decarbonisation in the USA and
 Canada), energy savings in China, and reduced train delays in the UK, and is outlined in the
 Impact Case Study ‘Transforming Policy and Practice’.

 Over the next five years, we will continue to build on our position as world-leaders in railway
 research, transforming the R&D landscape, fostering new partnerships to increase UK rail
 innovation, including with HS2, and supporting SMEs to develop new technologies. Research
 into digitalisation will focus on digital twin development, data integration and cybersecurity,
 smart monitoring and autonomous systems.

 Energy

 Meeting our UoA12b objectives, we have created significant impact through strategic
 partnerships supporting our internationally leading research in energy storage, bioenergy,
 vehicle technology, fuel cells and hydrogen. Birmingham Centre for Energy Storage (BCES)
 pioneered Liquid Air Energy Storage (LAES), commercialised by Highview Power with BEIS and
 Innovate UK funding as CRYOBattery™ for use in two demonstrators (Y Ding). Construction of
 an additional 50MW cryogenic energy storage plant has begun following a £35M investment
 from Sumitomo. A world-first technology that converts curtailed wind power to heat entered
 commercial use in 2016 (Jinhe). Our Vehicle and Engine Technology Centre’s ambition to
 develop alternative energy carriers for transportation improved vehicle fuel economy and
 emissions through innovative catalytic technologies and hydrogen production (Tsolakis), and
 resulted in major advances in low and carbon-free fuels (Xu), outlined in the Impact Case Study
 ‘Fuel, Propulsion and After-treatment Technologies’.

 The Birmingham Centre for Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Research has over £2M of major EU
 funding and significant collaborations (e.g. with the Imperial College-led EPSRC Hydrogen and
 Fuel Cell Supergen Hub), to support sustainable solutions for cities, energy systems and
 transportation (Steinberger-Wilckens). In Bioenergy, Recycling Catalysis and Reaction
 Engineering our Birmingham-Fraunhofer UMSICHT joint platform supports Thermo-Catalytic
 Reforming (TCR®) for renewable energy technologies (A Hornung), winning £1.5M for two
 H2020 projects. Research in Electrical Power and Control Systems (XP Zhang) focuses on
 power grids, renewable energy systems integration and control in partnership with leading power
 companies (National Grid, E.ON, Network Rail, State Grid Corporation of China). XP Zhang
 provides national leadership in this area on the Expert Advisory Group of UK Government’s
 Offshore Transmission Network Review.

 Over the next five years, we aim to make BCES a globally leading centre for thermal and
 chemical energy storage research, policy influence and leadership of the EPSRC SuperGen
 Storage Plus Network. Using cross-cutting activities in Data Science and AI to tackle the
 climate emergency we will also focus on AI engine calibration, environmental catalysts and
 systems, carbon-free energy carriers and transportation, and creating an international presence
 at TEP (REF5a-4.2.2).

 Healthcare Technologies

 We launched the Healthcare Technologies Institute (HTI) as a leading interdisciplinary
 national centre for translational research, meeting our UoA12a/b strategic aims. Research
 income of £13M has enabled us to shape capability in healthcare and develop our real-world


                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impact in collaboration with clinicians at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham (QEHB) in
 alignment with EPSRC Healthy Nation and Industrial Strategy Ageing Society outcomes.

 Our strengths are in early detection of cancers, including bladder (Shepherd) and prostate (for
 which Mendes won the 2019 Women in Tech Academic Award), and brain injuries (Goldberg-
 Oppenheimer). We are tackling antibiotic resistance using additive manufacturing via an
 EPSRC Healthcare Impact Partnership, creating bespoke prosthetics (Cox) and pioneering
 research on nanoparticle-based tissue regeneration technologies (El Haj), scar reduction and
 prevention and bone formation and repair (Grover). Research into microbial keratitis led to an
 eye drop that is currently undergoing patient trials at QEHB (£4.1M from MRC and NIHR), with a
 spinout company planned to take the product to TRL 9.

 Our vision over the next five years is to deliver across the full translational pathway while
 stimulating significant economic growth through the West Midlands Local Industrial Strategy. We
 will increase capacity via a £6M proposal by three Local Enterprise Partnerships and grow into
 both medicine and pharmacology, lead the development of the Precision Healthcare
 Technology Accelerator (£22M, Birmingham Life Science Park) to create 5km2 of space for
 medical technologies development, and play a key role in the new Birmingham Bladder Cancer
 Research Centre (£11M UoB investment).

 Infrastructure Engineering

 As a key partner in UKCRIC (the UK Collaboratorium for Research in Infrastructure & Cities),
 Rogers, Jefferson, Chapman, Metje and Soper won a £21.6M EPSRC bid to construct the
 National Buried Infrastructure Facility (NBIF), supplemented by an additional £7M investment
 from the University. Mejte leads the £8M Geophysics work package of the interdisciplinary
 Quantum Technology Hub, which is developing novel approaches to identify buried
 infrastructure, showcased in UoA9’s ‘Quantum Technology’ Impact Case Study. Major EPSRC-
 funded collaborations include a £4M grant led by Leeds to understand the impact of
 infrastructure on natural systems and a £7.3M Sheffield-led project to develop pervasive sensing
 robots for water pipelines. ECR success informs new directions in AI (Faramazzi’s EPSRC First
 Grant).

 Structural Engineering has made significant advances in wind turbine engineering and
 alternative energy with £1M of EU investment (Baniotopoulos). Fluid Mechanics received over
 £4.5M for research in resilient transport, crop lodging and sustainable food production, while
 new Wind Engineering facilities support EPSRC-funded work in pedestrian and cyclist safety
 (Sterling). This is directly linked to our research in sustainable urban Transport, which also
 includes Soper’s £1M involvement in TRAINrig. Rogers’s collaboration in the £1M EPSRC
 CORONA project unites real-live observations (Birmingham UKCRIC Urban Observatory) with
 full-scale experiments in controlled conditions (NBIF). Burrow’s work on rural roads informs
 international development (section 4.1).

 Over the next five years we will develop collaborative projects with industry via UKRI and MTC
 initiatives through the Industry Strategy Challenge Fund Wave 3 on Quantum Technology and
 Construction and through our ERDF-funded project Alternative Raw Materials with Low Impact,
 which intersects with Materials for Sustainability. We will influence national and international
 codes and standards (Quinn), enhance our CPD portfolio in rural roads and exploit opportunities
 aligned with government infrastructure strategy (UKCRIC and NBIF). Apriority is
 interdisciplinary sensor technology and AI for the development of SMART infrastructure.
 This is our overall direction of travel and builds on UKCRIC initiatives such as the £1M EPSRC
 PLEXUS project and NBIF work in sensors for performance monitoring and mapping.

 Materials for Sustainability

 We identified critical materials research as a priority growth area in REF2014 (UoA13b) and
 activities have expanded greatly with the formation of the Birmingham Centre for Strategic

                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Elements and Critical Materials. Successes include the UKRI-funded Critical Elements and
 Materials Network (CrEAM) and related Policy Commission. Strengths lie in Rare earth
 magnets, especially the development of new processes to sense, sort, extract and reprocess
 from end-of-life products (Walton, EU, Innovate UK) and Batteries, with major awards totalling
 £11.5M on safety and the economic and legal aspects of recycling (Kendrick, Faraday Institute,
 EU) in collaboration with Energy. In Hydrogen Materials, where we led the £1.7M
 interdisciplinary ‘Science City: Hydrogen Energy Project’, work on hydrogen storage (Book) led
 to a metal hydride compressor prototype for energy applications and the manufacture of
 sustainable polymers.

 Over the next five years we will develop full-scale rare earth magnet recycling facilities at
 Tyseley Energy Park (ISCF, Driving the Electric Revolution) and robotic disassembly pilot lines
 for recycling batteries, automotive components and electronics to extract critical materials. The
 circular economy underpins University investment in a £390k Battery Testing facility and a
 £1.2M Dry Room, enabling research on battery safety and battery architectures for safer
 recycling, longer-life, lower-cost batteries with substitution of critical materials and lower-energy
 manufacturing with green solvents, which have won recent awards totalling over £4M. We will
 continue to build on our parliamentary advisory work (centred on the Policy Commission) to
 influence UK critical materials policy alongside partners within CrEAM specialising in legal and
 economic aspects of our technologies.

 1.4. Strategy for enabling and sustaining impact:

 Our impact strategy develops key aspects of our research strategy (point 3, section 1.2) and
 feeds directly into our staffing strategy (point 4, section 2.1). We design our research with in-built
 pathways to impact via horizon scanning for partners and commercialisation routes, and identify
 opportunities for policy engagement, supported by University initiatives (REF5a-2.1.3). This is
 achieved by:

    1) Targeted support to grow pathways to impact

 We identify and support research with environmental, economic, social and political significance
 in numerous ways. Theme leads, academics and professional colleagues engage in constant
 discussion with industrial collaborators to embed impact-generation into grant applications. Metje
 co-ordinates and supports this activity, which includes working closely with the Public Affairs
 team to identify opportunities to inform parliamentary debate, e.g. by advising the Department for
 Transport, the Science & Technology Select Committee and Parliamentary Office of Science &
 Technology on the circular economy (Materials for Sustainability). We work with the University’s
 Business Engagement team (REF5a-4.1) to foster and benefit from strategic partnerships with
 industry. A measure of our success is the award of four out of 19 RAEng Industry Fellowships to
 Birmingham in the last round (with Recycling Technologies, P&G, TÜV Rheinland Risktec
 Solutions, Hitachi Rail).

 Our Advisory Boards engage key stakeholders (industry, clinicians) to provide strategic support
 for our CDTs, Research Centres/Institutes and Industry Strategic Partnerships. We draw on the
 expertise of UoB Enterprise (the University’s technology transfer company, REF5a-4.1) to
 develop spin-outs, eight of which were formed in the REF period (section 4.1). We promote
 commercialisation and exploitation of our research through patents, licensing agreements and
 spinouts. 230 patent applications were filed and 25 IP agreements entered into.

 This process of uniting academics with industry partners and end-users led to the identification
 of nine key areas that form the basis of our Impact Case Studies, each showcasing how we
 directed research towards a particular challenge, outlined in the relevant themes above (section
 1.3).




                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    2) Strategic use of impact funds
 We make full use of the institutional EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account. 20 academics
 received IAA funding and three benefitted from the EPSRC Accelerating Major Strategic Projects
 fund. This funding supported numerous impacts including an MoU with the Anglo-Indian
 company Intellex to develop commercial software for rail maintenance (Burrow). EPSRC Policy
 Impact Programme funding supported Walton’s work to minimise waste in magnet materials
 production which resulted in the National Centre for Critical Materials collaborating with over 50
 companies on recycling projects. A report to government (2019) and Policy Commission (2021,
 section 4.1) embed critical materials in UKRI and BEIS strategy, shaping the direction of UK
 research and waste strategy. To facilitate this impact, we used the Royal Society Science in
 Parliament scheme to shadow MPs (Liz Saville Roberts, Hywel Williams and Ben Lake). This led
 to ongoing policy engagement, informing parliamentary debate, and presenting policy
 recommendations to funding councils. Goldberg-Oppenheimer and Alberini won Innovate UK
 ICURe funding to exploit the commercial potential of their research. Through the same scheme
 Robinson (with Preece, Chemistry) formed ChromaTwist, winner of the Nature Merck Spinoff
 Prize 2020.

 Over the next five years, we will increase the impact of our research by supporting
 secondments, helping ECRs win funding, and integrating training as part of PDRA positions. We
 will continue to support staff to communicate their research beyond academia, which Stamboulis
 currently leads through membership of the University’s Public Engagement with Research
 Committee. We will expand activity at off-campus centres (HTRC and MTC) and use the
 expertise of our industrial professors and Strategic Advisory Boards to unite academics with the
 end-users of our research.

 1.5. Approach to supporting interdisciplinary research:

 Our approach is to enable research that transcends traditional discipline boundaries through our
 thematic structure and our inter/multidisciplinary centres (BEI, HTI, Critical Materials).
 Successes include activities with Physics and Astronomy via the Quantum Technology Hub
 (Infrastructure, Communications and Sensing, Rail) and the Positron Imaging Centre via a joint
 EPSRC Programme Grant (Formulation Engineering). We run wind engineering projects with
 Sport and Exercise Sciences, work on industrial control systems with Computer Science and on
 the Faraday Institute battery challenge ReLiB and NEXTRODE projects with Chemistry
 (Materials for Sustainability). Major collaborations with BEI unite us with Birmingham Law School
 and Birmingham Business School. These drive energy policy decisions in government (Energy)
 and collaboration in the local area, e.g. through the Urban Living Birmingham Consortium (‘From
 Citizen to Co-innovator, from City Council to Facilitator’ project, Infrastructure). The HTI
 facilitates collaboration with clinicians and colleagues in Medicine on anti-scarring and bone
 reformation (Healthcare). We have also been involved in collaborative AHRC, ESRC, BBSRC,
 and NERC-funded projects on remote sensing for archaeology, urban shrinkage, biofilm
 catalysts and flood prevention. Section 4.1 further details our interdisciplinary work locally and
 globally.

 1.6. Progress towards an open research environment:

 We have a strong commitment to Open Research to facilitate collaboration, remove barriers to
 knowledge and enable impact through online access to open publications, data and advocacy.
 We are guided in our UoA-level activities by the University’s Open Research Board (REF5a-2.2)
 whose commitment to DORA and Plan-S is implemented in our approach to fair and responsible
 metrics in research and staff assessment (e.g. probation and promotion) and in our active
 promotion of open publication.

 5,803 articles were deposited in the University’s e-repository over the REF period, 57% of which
 (3,334) are open access. 113 papers were published as Gold Open Access via Internal OA
 Funds. 36 working papers, 25 data sets and all theses (unless sensitive) are publicly available.

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We advocate open access via leadership on the editorial boards of the Open Journal of Fluid
 Dynamics and the IEEE Open Access Journal of Power and Energy, amongst others, write for
 non-academic audiences (offering commentary on current affairs via 12 articles in The
 Conversation), run blogs (BCRRE, BEI), and contribute to podcasts (Aerospace Engineering,
 Ideas Lab Predictor Podcast, Our Conversation).

 We support the Concordat on Open Research Data through our Research Data Management
 Policy; this sets out a conscious decision-making process (data management plan) for each
 project to release open data through the University’s e-repository, whilst protecting confidential
 data and IP in line with legislation. For example, Morris shares 100,000s of model crystal
 structures of battery materials as part of the Optimade consortium enabling re-analysis of data
 via online workbooks, Easton developed the National Railway Research Data Platform and
 Cassidy supports the Data & Analytics Facility for National Infrastructure (DAFNI).

 1.7. Support for a culture of research integrity:

 Staff adhere to the University’s Code of Practice for Research and Code of Practice for Ethics
 (REF5a-2.2), complete Research Integrity Training, GDPR and ethical self-assessment in line
 with the Universities UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity. Fraga sits on the STEM
 Ethical Review Committee and advises on best practice. We fulfil our ethical responsibility to
 PGRs through a CDT-run programme accessible to all that provides training in responsible
 research methods, responsible innovation, EDI, and science communication.
 2. People

 2.1. Staffing strategy and staff development:

 Our staffing strategy is to attract and retain current and future generations of academic leaders.
 Through four strategic objectives, we have created a vibrant and inclusive research
 environment:

    1) Develop a pipeline of leadership in innovative and impactful research by recruiting
       academic staff from leading universities and global industry
 We have appointed or promoted 39 lecturers, 12 senior lecturers, 7 readers and 24 professors
 on the basis of their innovative and impactful research. Through the University’s highly
 competitive flagship recruitment programmes we appointed a Professorial Fellow (Davies), an
 Interdisciplinary Professorial Fellow (El Haj), and six Birmingham Fellows (Goldberg-
 Oppenheimer, Collins, Morris, Laver, Hanham and Chen; REF5a-3.4.1). Each appointment is
 through open competition, advertised using gender-neutral language. We seek advice to widen
 applicant pools, aim for inclusive shortlists and endeavour to appoint staff to stable long-term
 positions: out of 150 REF-eligible Category A staff, 141 are on open-ended contracts.

 We have actively appointed leaders from global industry to professorships, e.g. Green
 (Doncasters), Metcalfe (F-star Biotechnology), Withey (Rolls-Royce), Jack (Rail Safety and
 Standards Board) and Pelan (Unilever Vlaardingen), and world experts in translational research,
 e.g. Kendrick, El Haj, Metcalfe, Dixon and Cassidy. We have appointed staff from leading
 universities (section 1.2) and will continue to prioritise recruitment to our nine themes; whilst
 remaining open to the creative potential of individuals, we will build expertise in AI, digital and
 automation. This ensures vitality and sustainability in current and future research leadership.

 Key appointments in Advanced Manufacturing and Materials Processing include Green as
 Director of HTRC and Withey as Professor of Casting, alongside three additional academic
 appointments. Attallah, Basoalto and Dearn were promoted to professor to lead the Advanced
 Materials and Processing Lab, PRISM2 and tribology research, respectively. In
 Communications and Sensing, Baker was appointed Professor of Intelligent Sensor Systems,
 along with a Senior Birmingham Fellow, three lecturers, and two senior lecturers. Prof. Cannon
 was appointed to create a new group in space weather, with two new lecturers and RAEng Chair

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Angling). In addition, Gardner, Constantinou (College Director of Research) and Gashinova
 were promoted to professorships to lead microwave, electrodynamics and radar research.

 In Formulation Engineering Profs Pelan and Wolf were appointed to lead microstructure
 engineering with Prof Seville as Director of the Collaborative Teaching Laboratory, supported by
 four new lecturers. New appointments in Materials for Challenging Environments include
 Binner as Professor of Ceramic Science and Engineering and two lecturers. Prof. Davenport
 became the first female Head of the School of Metallurgy and Materials, following Bowen’s
 promotion to Deputy Pro-Vice Chancellor for Industrial Partners and Stolkin was promoted to
 professor to lead NCNR. Prominent appointments in Materials for Sustainability are Kendrick
 as Professor of Energy Materials, a Birmingham Fellow and two lecturers. Walton was promoted
 to professor to lead critical materials research. Two new professors, Dixon in Control Systems
 Engineering and Jack in International Railway Benchmarking, take leading roles in Railway
 Engineering, alongside a senior lecturer and three lecturers.

 Prof. El Haj, a leading figure in regenerative medicine, and Prof. Metcalfe, an expert in wound
 healing, were appointed alongside a Birmingham Fellow and seven lecturers to substantially
 strengthen Healthcare Technologies. Shepherd’s promotion to professor cements bio-medical
 engineering leadership. Prof. Leeke was appointed to lead Energy research in the circular
 economy and Prof. A Hornung to develop the UK-Fraunhofer platform at Tyseley Energy Park.
 Tsolakis was promoted to professor to lead low- and carbon-free energy research. Two readers,
 a senior lecturer and four lecturers were also appointed. In Infrastructure six new lecturers
 joined Profs Davies, Cassidy and Kopp, who now lead Water Technology, Geotechnical
 Infrastructure Engineering and Wind Engineering, appointed in conjunction with Jefferson
 (Deputy Head of College), Chapman and Metje’s promotions to professor. Visiting roles are
 detailed in section 4.1.

    2) Tailored training and leadership programmes for all staff reflecting their individual
       needs
 We support staff throughout their careers to embrace a culture of intellectual stimulation,
 creative diversity and high achievement. Individual training needs are identified through annual
 Personal Development Reviews to ensure staff are equipped with skills in leadership, people
 and resource management, planning and pedagogy as well as the technical skills to carry out
 their research. Milestones are discussed towards promotion, which can be awarded for
 research, impact, teaching and academic citizenship.

 Training is organised at University level by the People and Organisational Development unit,
 who through the Leadership Academy run programmes specific to emerging, team, research
 and senior academic leaders (including Aurora, which supports women to achieve positions of
 seniority, REF5a-3.4.4). 45 staff at all career levels have completed these programmes during
 the REF period. Promotion workshops aimed at female colleagues, whom we identified as
 holding back from applying, and courses to improve management culture were introduced in
 2014.

 Those in leadership roles are supported by appropriate workload balancing and we run a
 comprehensive series of College support activities (e.g. grant writing workshops with
 individualised support) to assist colleagues returning from career breaks (e.g. maternity) or who
 need to otherwise rebuild their research. All new lecturers receive tailored support to write their
 first major grant applications. A workshop series to support grant writing initiated in 2019
 prioritised 30 early career researchers. Mentoring is available for all staff, who are supported to
 disseminate ideas and foster research excellence.

    3) Create an environment in which Early Career Researchers can thrive
 We take a similar individual approach for ECRs, reflecting the diversity of our academic cohort.
 A senior academic mentor works with each ECR to define individual career direction, research
 objectives and training needs. Birmingham Fellows receive five years’ protected research time

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and all ECRs benefit from two years’ reduced teaching post appointment. Birmingham Fellows
 run a staff network and the Postdoctoral and Early Researcher Career Development and
 Training network supports the PDRA community. Eleven of our PDRAs were awarded
 lectureships at Birmingham and others have gone on to permanent positions at institutions
 including Imperial College. Stafford and Thomas-Seale are EPSRC Early Career Forum in
 Engineering members (as was Metje).

 Guided by the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 and best practice in support of the Vitae Researcher Development Framework, ECRs receive 12
 days per year for professional development, undergo structured probation and are allocated a
 funded PhD student to gain supervision experience. Attendance is expected at seminars and
 away days to provide opportunities for collaboration and to contribute to the UoA’s direction and
 strategy. These continue to be held virtually in the wake of COVID-19. Financial support is
 available for staff to attend external research events with priority for ECRs and those with EDI-
 related needs. Industry interactions are promoted through support for fellowships and
 secondments.

 CV and interview training are provided for PDRAs nearing the end of their contracts to help them
 find employment externally or through redeployment. Three-month extensions for fixed-term
 PDRAs are available to staff from under-represented backgrounds through the EPSRC-funded
 Inclusion Matters project ‘Challenging Different Forms of Bias in Physical Sciences and
 Engineering Research’ (REF5a-3.4.5). Three were awarded to UoA12 women in 2019. The
 results of this novel study of bias in peer evaluation will inform changes at UoA and University
 levels.

    4) Support academics to achieve impact
 A key strength is our focus on embedding staff in industry to support and enable them to
 achieve impact from their research; individual recognition of excellence in research
 impact is given through schemes such as the University Impact Awards.

 We support exchanges with business for staff at all career stages, for example Thomas-
 Seale’s secondment at MTC and Davenport’s 20% secondment at Harwell Imaging Partnership.
 Staff were awarded RAEng Industrial Fellowships with Johnson Matthey, TÜV Rheinland Risktec
 Solutions, Recycling Technologies and P&G. A Royal Society Industry Fellowship enables
 Stolkin to spend 50% of his time working with the National Nuclear Laboratory on technical
 transfer. In addition, seven IAA Knowledge Transfer Secondments, nine Strategic Business
 Collaboration Fund grants, a Strategic Award, and two Strategic Placement Fund grants were
 awarded. Staff benefit from the University’s Medici Enterprise Training programme (Stamboulis,
 Robinson).

 Hosting visitors is a key component of our strategy (section 4.1). A series of publications on
 nuclear decommissioning resulted from the hosting of Jeff Kuo, a National Nuclear Laboratory
 Fellow at the Extreme Robotics Lab. We hosted an RAEng Industrial Fellow from Hitachi Rail
 and one of our two Royal Academy of Engineering Visiting Professors chairs our Civil
 Engineering Industrial Advisory Board.

 Consultancy, valued at £7.66M, includes Norton’s work with Bakkovor and Diageo, Herreros’s
 with REPSOL that contributed to the future automotive fuels Impact Case Study, and Attallah’s
 with Rolls-Royce and the European Space Agency. Consultancy arises both from the support
 given by UoB Enterprise and Business Engagement to pair staff with industry partners, and
 through secondments, exchanges and collaborations. Policy work is supported by the Public
 Affairs Team.




                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2. Research Students:

 We have invested strategically to grow the number of doctoral students (>108%). A 15%
 increase in UKRI studentships (to 336), including 53 iCASE awards, reflects our ambition to
 attract students of the highest quality. Other major funding sources include UK industry (e.g.
 Unilever, Rolls-Royce, Cargill, Johnson Matthey, Imerys, P&G and numerous SMEs), the EC
 and British Council. Recruitment data is monitored by our EDI committees and 27.6% of PGRs
 in our 2018/19 cohort identified as female.

 We lead the following EPSRC Centres for Doctoral Training and Doctoral Training Partnership:

   Name                       Lead           Current      Degrees       Duration
                                             students     awarded
   Formulation                Fryer          39           66            2014-2028
   Engineering:
   Sustainable Structured
   Products (CDT)
   Hydrogen Fuel Cells        Steinberger- 19             28            2014-2022
   and their Applications     Wilckens
   (CDT)
   Doctoral Training       Bowen         9                16            2009-2020
   Partnership in
   Structural Metallic
   Systems for Gas
   Turbine Applications
 Table 2: CDT enrolments and awards (31 July 2020)

 Our translational research strategy is realised by embedding students directly in sponsoring
 companies through the CDT in Formulation Engineering. Staff are co-directors of the following
 CDTs led by other institutions (section 4.2): Innovative Metal Processing; Midlands Integrative
 Biosciences; Carbon Capture and Storage and Cleaner Fossil Energy; Sustainable Hydrogen;
 and Engineered Tissues for Discovery, Industry and Medicine. We collaborate in the UoA9-led
 CDT in Topological Design. All industry-funded students receive training aligned with relevant
 CDT cohorts.

 PGR support and progress monitoring

 PGRs are integrated via a comprehensive induction to their group and School and are trained in
 ethics, health and safety, and research data management. They are introduced to central
 services, including Registry, the Careers Network and Graduate School (REF5a-3.2). All have a
 primary expert supervisor and a mentor, complete an annual Development Needs Analysis and
 attend monthly progression meetings (pro rata for part-time). CDT training modules are offered
 to all, regardless of funding status, to ensure key experimental and analytical skills (e.g. Design
 of Experiments, Numerical Analysis) and the latest industry and research trends (e.g. Industry
 4.0 and Big Data) are embedded.

 PGR wellbeing is supported in each School by a Wellbeing Officer. Reasonable adjustments are
 made for those with protected characteristics and international students can be matched with a
 mentor. Students are empowered through PGR reps attending Staff-Student Fora, monitored at
 College level. The Postgraduate and Mature Student Association supports and promotes the
 work of part-time PGRs.




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Skills development

 PGRs are integral to the research life of the UoA. They are required to engage in seminars,
 away days and team building activities and encouraged to suggest activities which meet their
 needs. Students can become demonstrators or supervise UG/PGT projects to enhance their
 skills and employability.

 Students gain experience organising events (e.g. the School of Engineering Annual Symposium)
 and have taken part in public engagement activities including the Pint of Science festival, Three
 Minute Thesis, Famelab, PubhD, Pecha Kucha, TEDxBirmingham, Café Scientifique, Skeptics in
 the Pub, and events organised by the British Science Association and #BrumSciComm. The
 University’s Alice Roberts Award for Public Engagement was won three out of four years by
 PGRs from UoA12.

 Our graduates go on to rewarding careers, e.g. 90% from the Formulation Engineering CDT
 gained jobs in the sector. Graduates are PDRAs at University of Technology Gothenburg,
 Stanford, Faraday Institute, Fraunhofer Institute UMSICHT and Helmholtz Institute Erlangen-
 Nürnberg for Renewable Energy, and lecturers at Liverpool, Lancaster, Heriot Watt, Coventry
 and Michigan State, for example. Positions with companies include Intelligent Energy, the
 Carbon Trust, Axion Recycling, Deutsche Bank, Mondelez, Nestlé, AstraZeneca, Johnson
 Matthey, Morgan Advanced Materials and Rolls-Royce.

 2.3. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion:

 EDI is integral to our research environment. All staff complete compulsory diversity training and
 those involved in recruitment or internal REF assessment undertake unconscious bias training.
 We aim for a culture of inclusivity through ‘open doors’ policies. Key events and committees are
 held at family-friendly times and minutes shared for transparency. We hosted two RAEng
 Visiting Professors to inform EDI practice and, in 2019, appointed Prof. Averil MacDonald OBE
 FRSA as EDI advisor.

 In the construction of our REF submission we ensured that Output reviews were undertaken
 by a broad cross-section of staff. In accordance with UoB’s REF Code of Practice, and to ensure
 equity, equality and transparency, members took compulsory EDI training and compared the
 pool of available outputs with the outputs selected for submission to confirm consistency and fair
 representation. The Output Selection Panel (15 senior staff, including three female and two
 BAME) monitored internal scoring for potential biases and to ensure that particular output types
 or research areas were not privileged over others.

 Career development

 We are committed to eliminating barriers to success and supporting researchers at all stages of
 their careers. Our research and teaching staff originate from 44 countries, 42% identify as black,
 Asian or minority ethnic, 2% have a known disability and 23% are female. Women occupy
 prominent leadership roles (Davenport, first female Head of MM; Mendes, Deputy Head of CE;
 Metje, Head of Enterprise, Engagement and Impact) and research (El Haj in Healthcare,
 Kendrick in Materials for Sustainability, Metje in Infrastructure and Wolf in Formulation).

 16% of professors and 33% of readers are female (up from 2% and 12.5% in REF2014).
 Interview panels are as diverse as possible, we require staff to shortlist qualified female
 candidates and an EDI statement accompanies recruitment campaigns to encourage
 applications from those with protected characteristics. In 2019, 27% of academic appointments
 were women (from the 25% shortlisted and 18% that applied). 85% of women who applied for
 promotions over the REF period were successful, compared to 81% of men. ECR mentoring has
 been extended to all staff until they achieve promotion to senior lecturer, and addressing
 discrepancies in the promotion of BAME staff (61% success rate) compared to white applicants
 (90% success rate), is key to our EDI strategy over the next five years.

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Support for staff with protected characteristics

 University EDI strategy is supported and implemented by School leads who provide visible
 leadership and who are empowered to challenge biases in the promotion and reward of staff.
 Each School has an EDI committee and there is an open invitation for all staff to attend these
 meetings. Our commitment to gender equality can be seen in active Athena SWAN working
 groups: Chemical Engineering was awarded Athena SWAN Bronze in 2018 and will submit its
 application for Silver in 2023 (date extended due to the impact of COVID-19); Engineering
 received its Bronze award in 2020; and Metallurgy and Materials prepared and submitted its
 Bronze application in 2020.

 A review by the EDI Projects Officer and senior academics of the support available for staff with
 protected characteristics identified the need for greater support for funding applications,
 monitoring of the academic pipeline and EDI training for technicians and Heads of Operations.
 These are priorities going forward. A family leave support group has already been established
 which will create guidelines for managers and establish a support network. Staff who return from
 parental leave or who have disabilities work in teams to manage workloads. Reverse mentoring,
 pioneered in Engineering and now incorporated at University level, pairs senior staff with those
 from underrepresented groups to provide learning opportunities and to raise awareness of
 challenges.

 Exemplar EDI activities include Stamboulis’ work on the University’s Equality and Diversity
 Advisory Panel, as an invited speaker at the International Women in Engineering Day (London,
 2017) and the E&D assessment panel for REF. We hosted several events including the first
 ‘Equal in STEM’ conference (2020) with WISE (Women in Science and Engineering), oSTEM
 (out in STEM), and BEaMS (Black Ethnic and Minority Scientists), ‘Women in Engineering’
 seminar (Kendrick), International Women’s day events, and the 2020 LGBT+ STEMinar. Binner
 is a member of the EPSRC Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Strategic Advisory Group and
 Mottura of The Inclusion Group for Equity in Research in STEMM (TIGERS). Since 2019,
 ‘Academic Women in EPS’ shares best practice on issues affecting female, BAME, LGBTQ+
 and non-binary staff.

 Flexible working, leave and wellbeing

 We advocate flexible working to enable staff to balance their work and home lives and support
 those with family or caring responsibilities. 20% of staff (including PDRAs) work less than 1 FTE
 and their career progression is actively supported via PDRs and training. New management
 skills developed as a result of the COVID-19 lockdown will inform future flexible working
 arrangements, guided by the Equality and Human Rights Commission guidance on COVID-19-
 related reasonable adjustments. Study leave is available in line with University policy (REF5a-
 3.4.3), with 15% of REF-eligible staff holding secondments in industry.

 Parental, adoption and care leave arrangements are made through HR in consultation with
 managers. Keep-in-touch days help the transition back to work and central funding buys out
 teaching for the term following leave. Returning staff are assisted with research funding
 opportunities and supported with funded PhDs to accelerate research (Ghag, Thomas-Seale).
 All staff who took maternity leave returned to their existing roles.

 All staff can access Workplace Wellbeing and Occupational Health. The Staff-Student working
 group, led by Sheridan, ensures wellbeing support for staff, students and under-represented
 groups, facilitates training on sexual harassment and bullying, and organises ‘School life’ events
 (socials and sporting activities). A support network facilitates international and BAME student
 integration and empowers BAME students to take up opportunities like demonstrating.




                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Income strategy:

 Enhancing our impact through translation can only be achieved through major investment in
 fundamental research supported by an increased income portfolio. This is supported by a
 strategy to 1) shape funding calls and target major funding opportunities, 2) diversify our funding
 sources, and 3) increase industry funding. This is supported by three Research Facilitators,
 Business Engagement and the EU and International Funding team. The success of this strategy
 is demonstrated by more than doubling our research income since the last REF period.

  Source                                      REF 2014             REF 2021

  Research Councils                           £31,651,669.00       £70,331,251.00

  Research Councils income-in-kind            £1,129,518.00        £36,658,809.32
  UK government                               £22,051,574.00       £41,216,316.00
  UK-based charities                          £754,993.00          £2,557,057.00
  UK industry and other                       £15,193,282.00       £33,099,820.00

  EU government                               £10,422,852.00       £29,190,381.00
  EU industry and other                       £2,529,299.00        £4,191,024.00
  All other sources                           £2,201,709.00        £5,727,043.00
  Totals                                      £85,934,896          £222,971,701.32

 Table 3. Income by funding source

 Across our nine themes, research income shows a significant overall upward trajectory:


        45
        40
        35
        30
        25
        20
        15
        10
           5
   £M      0




                2013/14   2014/15   2015/16    2016/17   2017/18   2018/19   2019/20

 Fig 1. Research income by theme in £M




                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    1)   Shaping funding calls and targeting major funding opportunities
 Our research leadership is instrumental in shaping UK and EU strategic themes (e.g. energy
 and health, section 4.2) and we have secured major funding from both these sources. We have
 substantially grown UKRI funding (38% of total income), in particular by prioritising applications
 for major multi-partner grants to create networks. Awards include three EPSRC Programme
 Grants: ‘Probing Multiscale Complex Multiphase Flows with Positrons for Engineering and
 Biomedical Applications’ (Barigou, with Physics and Astronomy, KCL and Edinburgh, £4.33M to
 UoB); ‘PREdictive Modelling with QuantIfication of UncERtainty for MultiphasE Systems’
 (Simmons, with UCL, and Cambridge, led by Imperial College London, £1.6M to UoB, £6.3M
 overall); and ‘Structural Metallic Systems for Advanced Gas Turbine Applications’ (Bowen,
 £2.7M, led by Cambridge).

 Our strategic emphasis on translational research secured EPSRC funding through the Centre for
 Innovative Manufacturing in Food (with Nottingham and Loughborough, total £4.5M) and
 Sustainable Energy use in Food Chains (with Brunel and Manchester, total £5.7M) led to a
 further £1.3M for new manufacturing technologies. We are partners in a major project on
 pervasive sensing robots for water pipelines with Sheffield (£7.2M, £1.4M to UoB) and led work
 on terahertz communications (Lancaster and Gardner, £2.2M), glycoprotein recognition
 (Mendes, £1.15M), remote sensing (Stolkin, £1.4M), computational modelling of twin-screw
 extruders (Adams, £725k), after-treatment systems for clean and road vehicles (Tsolakis, £900k)
 and mixing phenomena in complex fluids (Fryer, £1.3M). Bowen received £1.14M from Innovate
 UK for the ‘ATI Project ‘Dual Wall Turbine Technology Development’, while work to produce on-
 vehicle hydrogen by recovering waste exhaust gas and heat funded by Innovate UK (£8M) and
 EPSRC (£1.8M) sparked global interest.

 EPSRC awards include three projects worth £5.26M in robotics in nuclear environments (Stolkin,
 Pham), part of the £42M consortium of eight institutions led by UoB that form NCNR. Aligned
 with our focus on industrial exchange, Withey secured an EPSRC Manufacturing Fellowship
 (£900k). Grover leads two Healthcare Impact Partnerships, interdisciplinary research on additive
 manufacturing led to £1.07M (Grover, Shepherd), and we were awarded four New Investigator
 awards (totalling £1.4M).

 Increased interdisciplinary research allows us to address global challenges, steer funding
 priorities and diversify our research portfolio. In particular, we won large-scale investment into
 clean energy, evidenced by the £7.5M Faraday Challenge ReLiB grant (Industrial Strategy
 Challenge Fund). Related cross-disciplinary and collaborative grants on batteries include
 Faraday’s CATMAT (£11.2M), NEXTRODE (£12M), MSM (£10M), and five Innovate UK projects
 (Kendrick).

 We successfully targeted EU calls to win 90 FP7/H2020 awards. These include funding to sort
 nuclear waste (Stolkin, £1.3M), to develop biofuels (Ouadi, £850K), novel fibre-based materials
 (Dong, £800K) and diagnostic technology for inflammation (Mendes, GLYCOSURF, £1.5M), and
 to develop innovative railway switches (Roberts and Dixon, S-CODE, £1.5M). Two projects on
 rare earth production and recycling (REProMag and NEOHIRE, Walton, £1.46M) created
 technologies central to the 20-partner SUSMAGPRO project (£12.2M), now licensed to
 Hypromag facilitating Innovate-UK funding to scale-up magnet recycling with 12 partners (£2M).
 El Haj’s EU Advanced Grant explores mechano-nano-therapeutics (DYNACEUTICS £1.95M).

 A series of major ERDF awards secured development in the local region, with UoB matched
 funding. These are the Advanced Materials Characterisation and Simulation Hub (Chiu, £6M
 total); Digital Rail Demonstrator (Roberts, £5.4M total); Alternative Raw Materials with Low
 Impact (Jefferson, £5.2M total); Data-Enabled Medical technologies ANd Devices Hub (Grover,
 £6M total); and is part of the Smart Factory Hub (Dimov, £11.M total, Advanced Manufacturing
 Technologies to Create, Activate & Automate project). All are detailed in section 4.1. Similarly,
 we are partners in the €6.33M Interreg North-West Europe H2SHIPS project on the commercial
 potential of hydrogen bunkering and propulsion for shipping.

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    2) Diversify our funding sources
 Funding from charities and international sources has increased as a result of horizon scanning
 activities and tailored assistance from the Research Support Office. Healthcare exemplifies this
 diversification, reflecting our work at the engineering-clinical boundaries. It includes £2.8M for
 technologies designed to reduce the impact of scarring (Wellcome Trust, £1.6M and ScarFree
 Foundation, £1.2M), MRC funding for bone regeneration and for preventing scarring on the
 cornea (Developmental Pathway Funding Scheme, £2.8M) and NIHR i4i funding for novel
 eyedrops (Grover with Logan (Institute of Inflammation and Ageing), £1.3M). Mendes won
 funding from Prostate Cancer UK, Grover from the ORUK and DEBRA UK. We also diversified
 UKRI funding (NERC, MRC, BBSRC) and won Leverhulme Trust grants (Rees, Alberini,
 Alexiadis).

 The UKRI Strategic Priorities Fund supports two projects in space weather (NERC, Elvidge and
 Cannon, £3.7M total) and the flagship Industry Strategy Challenge Fund Gravity Pioneer project
 (>£8M) is developing the first commercial gravity gradiometer sensor surpassing the
 performance of traditional gravity sensors. We have also seen new growth in charity and
 internationally funded PhD studentships and post-doctoral fellowships (e.g. NC3Rs, Wellcome
 Trust, RAEng, ERC). We have also diversified our industry funding, outlined below.

    3) Increase our industry funding
 Our active pursuit of national and international partnerships, aligned with UoB strategy (REF5a-
 2.1.3) has resulted in a funding increase of 118%. A key driver of this success has been our
 strategy to conduct innovative research at higher TRL/MRL levels to promote translation to
 industry and other stakeholders. Highlights include the Rolls-Royce strategic partnership with
 projects led by Bowen (totalling £1.9M), the cross-disciplinary SAMULET programme in strategic
 manufacturing technology (~£7M), novel fast-make technology (Blackburn, £1.4M, Rolls-Royce,
 Innovate UK), and the establishment of the HTRC (£3M per annum). A major £2M Network Rail
 strategic partnership has established a framework in digital rail technologies.

 Direct support includes China’s Baowu Steel Group which invested £2.95M in the University
 Research and Technology Centre, spanning Advanced Manufacturing and Materials Processing
 and Materials for Challenging Environments (Bowen). Business Engagement is key to
 disseminating and developing new opportunities, e.g. securing £4M industry investment in
 Infrastructure’s Innovate UK projects. Our CDTs/DTP also brought in ~£1.45M direct industrial
 funding to support PGRs’ research (2014-19).

 3.2. Infrastructure and facilities:

 A strategy of sustained and sustainable investment in equipment, infrastructure and facilities to
 secure the long-term sustainability of our research has amounted to over £260M since 2014. We
 house numerous world-class facilities, all monitored to ensure fair access on EDI grounds.

 Organisational infrastructure

 Since 2014, major investment in the following has been crucial to strengthening our research
 and enhancing our impact:

 The Engineering Building will open in 2021 as part of the University’s Accelerated Capital
 programme. This fully accessible and sustainable state-of-the-art facility (£65M) co-locates
 Communications and Sensing, Railway Engineering and Infrastructure Engineering. New
 laboratory facilities include an anechoic chamber and the THz Measurement Facility (£1.57M
 EPSRC strategic equipment funding). The Chemical Engineering Building also received £500k
 University investment into improved office space.



                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The High Temperature Research Centre (HTRC, £60M) opened in 2015. It employs over 100
 people specialising in key design and manufacturing aspects of a strategic technology, single
 crystal investment casting for aero-engines, with Rolls-Royce. HTRC was highlighted by
 Research England in 2018 as an exemplar of successful UKRPIF Funding. Co-located facilities
 (at Edgbaston and Ansty) support corporate organisations and businesses whilst protecting
 Rolls-Royce’s ‘crown jewel’ IP. HTRC has a processing capability exceeding any individual
 Rolls-Royce plant worldwide and its priority is rapid translation of research into industrial
 applications to ensure commercial competitiveness through comprehensive collaborative and
 simultaneous engineering approaches.

 The Manufacturing Technology Centre has grown beyond all expectations since 2014 to
 become the most ambitious and wide-reaching HVM Catapult Centre (worth £100M p.a.). With
 over 1,000 employees, 300+ industrial partners and unique processing and manufacturing
 capabilities, it has developed secure facilities for research on some of the most sensitive
 technologies in the UK national interest. Its training portfolio includes three centres for
 apprentices while proximity to HTRC enables secondments.

 Tyseley Energy Park (TEP) has received £30M of investment from government and the
 University (Energy Research Accelerator, ERA, LEP funding). A new building provides over
 600m2 of state-of-the-art lab facilities and equipment for the Birmingham Centre for Energy
 Storage, an Innovation Hub housing the UK Fraunhofer Centre, opening 2021, and a
 technology transfer centre in partnership with Jiangsu Industrial Technology Research Institute
 (China). The first phase of the building opened in 2020 with research facilities for thermal energy
 storage (Y Ding), strategic elements and critical materials (Walton, ReLiB Faraday Project),
 hydrogen and fuel cells (Steinberger-Wilckens), Thermo-Catalytic Reforming (Hornung), and Li-
 ion battery production and magnet processing (Kendrick).

 The National Buried Infrastructure Facility is a unique facility for research in buried
 infrastructure-ground interaction, geophysical sensing, soil stabilisation and pipeline detection,
 funded via a £21.6M investment through the £138M UK Collaboratorium for Research in
 Infrastructure & Cities (UKCRIC) award. Completed in 2020, it hosts laboratories for
 Infrastructure Engineering and facilities to simulate subsurface ground displacements, material
 storage and test assembly areas, pipeline and small-structure testing rigs, material
 characterisation facilities and a visualisation suite.

 The National Centre for Nuclear Robotics, opened 2018, is a £42M eight University EPSRC
 Birmingham-led consortium with more than 30 nuclear industry partners (part funded by the
 Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund). It received £2.5M capital funding and hosts the Extreme
 Robotics Lab which is already a market leader. It has state-of-the-art facilities for navigation of
 remote robot vehicles and real-time 3-D characterisation. This facility is driving impact in robotic
 manipulation for nuclear sorting and segregation (£1.9M, H2020) to deliver a TRL6
 demonstration in an industrial plant-representative environment at the National Nuclear Lab
 Workington test facility.

 The Centre of Excellence in Digital Systems (£16.4M) was created as part of the
 Birmingham-led UK Railway Research and Innovation Network (a £92M consortium), funded by
 Research England’s UK Research Partnership Investment Fund. £64M of funding from industry
 supports research projects over 10 years, while £28M from Research England has created
 facilities and multi-disciplinary project labs to develop systems (in virtual and real environments)
 and provide verification and validation and process-based ‘Route to market’ activity.

 The Healthcare Technologies Institute was established in 2018 via a £3.5M ERDF investment
 (UoB match funded) to create the Medical Devices Testing and Evaluation Centre, a joint
 venture with local industry to mature early-stage technologies and test medical devices within
 simulated clinical environments. 1200m2 of lab space was created in the Institute of
 Translational Medicine, which enables direct collaboration with NHS staff at QEHB. The £4.5M


                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Centre for Conflict Wound Research cements our position as the national leader in the
 translation of anti-scarring technologies.

 The Birmingham Centre for Strategic Elements and Critical Materials, the first of its kind in
 the UK, was launched in 2017 via £2.5M of UoB internal ‘Dynamic Investment Funding’ to
 develop solutions to the critical materials challenge. The centre focuses on substitution,
 recycling and efficient use of materials and the examination of trade and regulation for
 infrastructure and equipment.

 The Centre for Electron Microscopy won £2.8M of ERDF investment in new microscopes to
 underpin exemplar research in metallurgy and materials, e.g. a Talos STEM, Helios PFIB and
 Tecnai F30 STEM. 1.97M in EPSRC funding (plus 500k of UoB investment) for a unique Tri
 Beam instrument at the Centre (Chiu).

 TRAINrig (Transient Aerodynamics Investigation Rig), a state-of-the art facility in Derby, was
 extended and refurbished (£1.5M) as part of the UKCRIC investment to support our research
 into infrastructure and aerodynamics in railway engineering and to maintain our commercial
 competitiveness. Access to TRAINrig led to collaborations with West Coast Mainline, HS2 (via
 Arup) and the Railway Safety and Standards Board.

 Shared facilities and consortia include a partnership with Diamond Light Source associated
 with the development of the DIAD beamline (Davenport), which has given access for proof-of-
 concept experiments on other Diamond beamlines. This is in addition to access to central
 facilities, e.g. ISIS Neutron and Muon Source, and Parabolic Flight. We are partners in the
 DISTINCTIVE nuclear consortium and collaborate with the National Formulation Centre at the
 Centre for Process Innovation. BEIS funded a consortium on Liquefied Air Energy storage
 Technologies (Industrial Energy Efficiency Accelerator programme, PRISMA project). As
 members of the M9 consortium, we ensure that new facilities do not duplicate existing provision
 at other Midlands universities.

 Our Science City partnership (with Warwick) is one of Europe's leading research facilities in
 Advanced Materials. The Birmingham Centre for Energy Storage underpins international impact
 in Liquid Air Energy Storage (with CRRC) and facilities for research in Fuel Cells (including a
 new £390k Plasma Furnace Hydrogen Reactor), Microencapsulation, Micro-NanoPhotonics,
 Physical Properties, Bio-Medical and Micro Engineering, Vehicle Technology, and Micro
 Machining attract global partnerships.

 Major cash and benefits-in kind include student placements with industry, including £8.5M
 committed to the refreshed CDT in Formulation Engineering (2020, up from £920K in the period
 2014-19), £3M for the Gas Turbine DTP and >£2M for the Fuel Cells CDT across the whole
 consortium (£388k to UoB).

 Future strategic plans focus on the continued expansion of our infrastructure and facilities to
 inform our strategy of translating fundamental research through the TRL pipeline, notably at
 TEP, to scale up technology from lab to market. The next development phase at TEP is the
 completion of 2000m2 of business incubation space, including a skills academy and community
 hub. This will foster strong industrial partnerships and promote further interdisciplinary research
 across Energy, Materials for Challenging Environments and Materials for Sustainability.

 Operational infrastructure

 59 technicians enable our growing research portfolio and are supported in their development by
 the Technical Academy (REF5a-4.4) to attain professional recognition and take part in cross-
 institutional networking. Technicians provide vital support and are managed by five Technical
 Managers who oversee health and safety. Seville provides leadership in this area as a member
 of the Board of Governance of the National Technician Development Centre, while our


                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 involvement in the Midlands Innovation TALENT project (UKRI) provides a regional focus for our
 Technician Commitment activities.

 The College Research Support Office assists with all aspects of grant proposals. Assistance is
 given to prepare complex projects and bids to corporate business (e.g. costings, interview
 training with consultants). Every effort is made to assemble diverse internal selection panels and
 equal support is given regardless of career status, FTE or protected characteristics. Additional
 assistance is provided to applicants for whom English is not their first language. The Grant Set-
 up team facilitates timely starts to projects and Research Support Administrators provide post-
 award support.

 Support for social and economic impacts is provided by Business Engagement and UoB
 Enterprise. Educational Enterprise assists in developing CPD courses (currently 26, including
 food safety, geotechnical engineering, rail systems and industrial project management, and a
 new level 7 degree apprenticeship with GSK, launching 2021) and MOOCs (e.g. Electrical
 Engineering: Sensing, powering and controlling). Impact is further supported by Research
 Planning, International Relations, the Byrne Outreach Officer, the Henry Royce National
 Outreach Officer for Materials Science, the Public Engagement with Research team and Impact
 Development Officer.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1. Research collaborations:

 Collaborations with academics, industry, governments and NGOs are vital to the innovative work
 that delivers our world-leading research and sustains our influence as a civic University at the
 heart of the local community. Through our research, we contribute to the University’s Institute of
 Global Innovation’s challenge-led themes in Resilient Cities, Water Challenges, Ageing, Frailty
 and Resilience, Clean Air, and Environmental Pollution Solutions (REF5a-2.3.3).

 National networks

 In addition to the networks outlined in section 3.2, we contribute to the sustainability of the
 discipline through leadership of major partnerships such as the UK Rail Research and
 Innovation Network which created three Centres of Excellence, including ours in Digital
 Systems. The Critical Materials and Elements Network (CrEAM) unites academic and industry
 leaders across law, economics, chemistry and the life sciences, while UNIFY and UNIFY Plus
 (with Loughborough) support clinical partnerships (EPSRC Network Grants). We lead the
 NewJet Network+, which is working to decarbonise the UK aviation industry (EPSRC), and
 SWIMMR, a major STFC-NERC consortium drawing together experts in upper atmosphere
 modelling.

 As partners in Med-Tech CONNECT West Midlands, we work with seven industrial sponsors
 and MTC to support regional economic growth. Further large-scale academic-industrial
 collaboration includes the EPSRC UK Collaboratorium for Research on Infrastructure and Cities
 (UKCRIC) and the Supergen Storage Network Plus which unites 57 energy organisations. Roles
 within UKRI networks (e.g. ‘TERANET’, ‘Bioprocessing’, ‘Metals in Biology’, ‘UK Car-Parinello
 High-End Computing Consortium’) further utilise our expertise.

 International collaborations

 We actively seek overseas collaborations to maintain our profile and address global challenges.
 Key partnerships via UoB’s China Institute (Z Zhang, Co-Director, REF5a-2.1.8) enable
 exchanges including Zhang’s Newton Advanced Fellowship (Sichuan University). A joint
 research centre with the Chinese Academy of Sciences sends nine doctoral students on China
 Scholarship Council-funded exchange programmes annually. This facilitated projects on next-
 generation thermal energy storage technologies (£1.7M) and two CRRC projects (Y Ding). In

                                                                                            Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2013 we established the Anhui-Birmingham International Research Institute in Rail
 Transportation (Roberts), facilitating six additional CRRC projects and five with Guangzhou
 Metro.

 Partnerships initiated through UoB’s India institute (REF5a-2.1.8) also achieved significant
 impact. The EU project ‘India H2O’ (Davies) works with local communities to solve critical water
 shortages and Indian Railways is using our simulation capability to make investment decisions
 on future signalling (Roberts). BEI’s strategic partnership with the State Government of Haryana
 will develop a Centre of Excellence for Post-Harvest management and Clean Cold-chains
 (Peters, Y Ding, Al-Dadah), and with Shakti Sustainable Energy Foundation, the National Centre
 for Cold-chain Development and Indian counterparts we are creating integrated Community
 Cooling Hubs to reduce food waste.

 European partnerships include Innovative Training Networks on skin tissue (STINTS), magnet
 recycling (EREAN), biofilm management (BIOCLEAN) and recycling critical materials from
 hybrid and electric vehicles (DEMETER) totalling over €15.4M, a Marie Curie Initial Training
 Network with S14 Implants (France) and multiple H2020 collaborations (e.g. Partial-PGMs, €5M
 and Knocky, €900K). A joint industrial Energy Storage lab with the Global Energy
 Interconnection Research Institute (Berlin) was founded in 2016.

 Responses to national and international priorities and initiatives

 Our work both sets and responds to the international research agenda. Exemplars of how
 interdisciplinary research responds to international challenges include Peters’ Clean
 Cooling Congresses (World Bank, BEIS, and Sustainable Energy for All) which developed a
 Global Roadmap for Clean Cooling to meet the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. Our ‘Cold
 Energy’ Policy Commission established cooling at the forefront of the climate change
 agenda and, as a founding partner in the Centre for Sustainable Cooling, our work is aligned
 with the Paris Agreement, the Kigali Cooling Efficiency Program and the Montreal Protocol to
 support developing counties transition to clean energy.

 International development is a major driver. In line with UN Sustainable Development Goals in
 Climate Action, No Poverty, Gender Equality and Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure,
 Burrows’ research led to new roads in Sub-Saharan Africa (UKAID, UN, World Bank) and
 contributed to gender mainstreaming and sustainability in transport (UKAID). Digital solutions to
 road maintenance and asset management are being developed with Liberia’s Ministry of Public
 Works (UKAID), and the Gambia Roads Authority (UN). BCRRE’s global partnership portfolio
 includes DFID-funded work to assess railway infrastructure in low-income countries and low-
 carbon traction solutions for Sub-Saharan Africa.

 Sustainability is the focus of research on clean transport in Jordan (Steinberger-Wilckens),
 water shortages in Egypt (Al-Dadah), food security in Somaliland (Davies, Innovate-UK/DFID),
 clean cold chains in India (Dearn, Innovate-GCRF/DBT & IIT Bombay), and energy storage in
 Mexico (Radcliffe, BEIS Newton Institutional Links, with the Instituto Nacional de Electricidad y
 Energías Limpias). We are establishing a Global Centre for Excellence in Rural Roads with
 India’s Ministry of Rural Development (Burrow), and supporting Bosnia and Herzegovina
 incorporate climate resilience into road management (World Bank). With International Solar
 Alliance, BEI is providing solar and solar-hybrid energy cooling for agricultural use in India,
 Egypt and Brazil (EPSRC Eight Great Technologies Capital Programme).

 In the UK, Railway Engineering is setting the decarbonisation agenda via the Rail Industry
 Decarbonisation Task Force, 2019 (Hillmansen). We initiated Policy Commissions in
 ‘Technology-Critical Materials’ (Walton) and ‘Energy from Waste and the Circular Economy’
 (Peters and Freer, Physics), which are changing local government and industry practice and
 increasing employment in the region. Leeke advised the Ellen MacArthur Foundation on the New
 Plastics Economy.


                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International knowledge exchange

 International knowledge exchange is vital to developing our research. Funding from a joint
 research fund established between the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and UoB
 (BRIDGE, REF5a-2.1.8) facilitated 13 projects. Other programmes brought internationally
 leading academics to Birmingham, including a Newton Advanced Fellowship (Royal Society) to
 Prof. Sun, Sichuan University (China). We hosted five Brazil Visiting Fellows, a Rutherford
 Fellow, and Prof. Xu, Wuhan University of Technology (China), and Dr Buist, University of
 Eindhoven (Netherlands) as Institute of Advanced Study Vanguard Fellows. Antoniou was
 invited as Overseas Expert to the National Key Laboratory on Radar Signal Processing (China).
 Sciacovelli and Nayak undertook Universitas 21 exchanges (Melbourne, Connecticut) and 14
 PGRs visited eight international institutions via the scheme. Strategic partnerships for PhDs
 have been formed with SUSTech (China), the University of Melbourne and Trinity College
 Dublin.

 48% of our 5,051 journal publications are co-authored with international scholars, and staff held
 over 40 honorary roles and visiting professorships around the world. We acted as external
 examiners to over 300 higher degrees globally.

 Visiting speakers

 We have hosted events by world-leading researchers, such as Professor Sir Harry Bhadeshia
 (Cambridge) and Dr Sylvia Johnson (NASA Ames Research Center). Between 2015 and 2019,
 the annual Clark Lectures, which are open to the public, were given by Dr Jean Venables
 (Chairman of Crane Environmental), Professor Tim Broyd (UCL), Professor William Powrie
 (Southampton), Dr Sarah Buck OBE (Director of BSW Consulting) and Professor Phil Blythe
 (GCSA Department for Transport). We have also hosted speakers from Oxford, Cambridge,
 Imperial College London, UCL, Warwick, Max-Planck Institute, Illinois and Missouri (for
 example), and leading companies, including Siemens, Tata Steel, MAPAI and Rolls-Royce.

 Engagement with research users

 We currently lead five ERDF-funded Business Support Programmes which allow us to partner
 with SMEs, direct research towards pressing challenges and enhance the Midlands region. The
 Advanced Materials Characterisation and Simulation Hub supported over 180 businesses
 with materials science-related projects. Advanced Manufacturing Technologies to Create,
 Activate & Automate (Smart Factory Hub) supported 53 SMEs in additive, subtractive and
 hybrid manufacturing, laser and plasma processing, robotics and healthcare technologies.
 Alternative Raw Materials with Low Impact supported 92 SMEs, created employment in low-
 carbon and sustainable construction and developed waste processing facilities. Digital Rail
 Demand-Led Demonstrator will assist 215 SMEs and has facilitated R&D partnerships with 63
 companies to develop digital rail products and processes to date. Finally, Data-Enabled
 Medical technologies ANd Devices Hub (established 2020) will facilitate medical technology
 development and support clinician-patient-user experience.

 We contribute expertise to two ERDF projects in Physics and Astronomy. The Centre for
 Innovation in Advanced Measurement in Manufacturing supported 20 SMEs to use quantum
 technologies and Accelerating Thermal Energy Technology Adoption assisted 122
 businesses in the region, generating over £25M for the local economy. It led to Innovate and
 BEIS funding for projects with clients (Ouadi, Tsolakis). We also promote the translation of
 healthcare products as partners in MD-TEC and members of the public invested in research into
 antimicrobial resistive treatments using honey (Cox’s 2018 UoB Philanthropic Research Project
 Award).

 Public engagement is a vital pathway to impact. As well as organising and presenting at events
 such as the UK Green Film Festival and the Big Bang Fair, we have been interviewed on BBC
 Radio 1, 4, 5 Live, WM and the World Service, BBC TV (The One Show, Midlands Today) and

                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sky News. Staff won awards for engagement activities, including best presenter at ‘Soapbox
 Science’ 2014. We have contributed to the University’s annual Girls in STEM day since its
 inception in 2013 and the Daughters of Invention project encourages girls from under-
 represented backgrounds to aspire to become engineers. Green won The Engineer’s Trust
 Stephenson Award for encouraging young people to study engineering.

 Wider contributions to the economy and society

 We are heavily invested in the sustainability of the local region, in particular supporting
 Birmingham City Council’s ambition to be carbon neutral by 2030. BEI is an active partner in the
 Birmingham Route to Zero Taskforce, a cross-party response to the climate emergency, and
 contributes to the West Midlands Regional Energy Policy Commission. The Birmingham
 Centre for Cryogenic Energy Storage is establishing a legal framework for the Energy Innovation
 Zones recommended by this Policy Commission, via the Carbon Trust.

 Our activities with the Thermal Energy Research Accelerator (T-ERA) enabled collaboration
 with MTC to develop the International Thermal Energy Manufacturing Research Accelerator
 (ITEMA), which uses Industry 4.0 and other novel manufacturing approaches to scale production
 of novel technologies for transfer to market (‘Factory in a Box’). We are also supporting industry
 to undertake composite recycling (EPSRC, £1.4M), on which Leeke advised UK government.

 Staff are actively involved in Knowledge Transfer Partnerships with a value of £2.9M. These
 include collaborations with Aggregated Micro Power Holdings, Recycling Technologies, Westley
 Plastics, Webster and Horsfall (Holdings), Blue Sky Bio, Cogitare, Cobra Biologics, Ionotec,
 Brandenberg (UK), Strip Tinning, RS Hydro, Truflo Marine, and KUKA Robotics UK. Work with
 Abtus won a Railway Industry Innovation Award (2019). 13.5% of our publications since 2014
 were co-authored with industrial partners.

 The establishment of eight spin-out companies, Aqualo (Davies), Smart Antenna Technologies
 (subsequently Novocomms, Gardner), MoniRail (Roberts, Stewart), EneRail (Roberts,
 Hillmansen), Susteen UK, Susteen Canada (A Hornung), Sensors and Composites (Fernando)
 and Microforce Measurement UK (Z Zhang), is testament to the entrepreneurial culture of the
 UoA.

 4.2. Leadership, indicators of wider influence and contributions to the research base:

 Our leadership shapes research and funding landscapes nationally and globally. Testament to
 its excellence is Davenport’s OBE for her services to electrochemistry and corrosion science and
 Cannon’s OBE for leading UK research in extreme space weather. Leadership in
 microencapsulation technologies and in energy storage led to the election of Zhang and Ding as
 Fellows of the Royal Academy of Engineering, bringing our cohort of elected Fellows to ten. 45%
 of our research papers are in the top 10% of journals and a further 20% are in the top 10% most
 cited worldwide.

 Fellowships

 Senior staff are elected Fellows of the following learned societies: Royal Society of Chemistry
 (6); Institution of Chemical Engineers (10); Institution of Mechanical Engineers (11); Institute of
 Materials, Minerals and Mining (7); Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineering (5);
 Institution of Engineering and Technology (5); Institution of Civil Engineers (2); Royal
 Metrological Society (1); Geological Society (2); Institute of Physics and Engineering in Medicine
 (1); and Institution of Rail Signal Engineers (2).

 In addition to industry fellowships (section 2.1), externally funded fellowships include UKRI FLFs
 (Cox, Knowles), EPSRC New Investigator Fellowships (Faramarzi, Thomas-Seale, Cox,
 Windows-Yule), a Turing Fellowship (Cai), three UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships (Cox,
 Knowles, Kelly) and two prestigious RAEng Fellowships (Goldberg-Oppenheimer, Knowles). We

                                                                                             Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 hosted 37 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellows (early stage, senior and individual), an NC3Rs
 Training Fellow and an i4i Fellow.

 Senior fellowships include El Haj’s ERC Advanced Fellowship, Soo’s RAEng Distinguished
 Visiting Fellowship, Feresidis’s RAEng-Leverhulme Trust Senior Research Fellowship, Bowen’s
 Research Fellowship in Nuclear Structural Integrity (Office of Nuclear Regulation), Sterling and
 Metje’s Walsh Fellowships (Agriculture & Food Development Authority), and fellowships from the
 Leverhulme Trust (Butt), Rutherford Strategic Partnership (Tsolakis), EPSRC (Wu), and Royal
 Society (ZJ Zhang).

 Leadership and advisory roles

 Staff occupy over 200 leadership and advisory positions at national and global bodies, including
 the REF2021 Panel (El Haj, Fryer). Positions at national and international societies include
 presidencies of the European Ceramic Society (Binner), IOM3 (Binner), IChemE (Seville),
 American Association of Wind Engineering (Kopp), Bioengineering Society (El Haj), vice
 presidencies of International Union of Railways Universities Alliance (Jack), International
 Association of Engineering Geology (Jefferson), Scandinavian Society for Biomaterials (Bassett),
 and International Union of Radio Science (Cannon), and founding Chairman of EMSIG: UK
 Radar Society (Cherniakov). We chair the UK Magnetics Society (Walton), Heads of Chemical
 Engineering UK (Simmons), the ICE Research, Development and Innovation towards
 Engineering Excellence Panel (Rogers), UK Automatic Control Council (Dixon), the IET Railway
 Technical Network (Easton), the Railway Division of IMechE (Schmid), the IChemE Catalysis
 SIG (Wood), and the Wind Engineering Society (Sterling), and sit on multiple RSC, IMechE,
 IEEE, IChemE and SCI boards and special interest groups.

 Positions in industry are numerous. Jefferson, Soper, Theophanus, Sterling, Metje, Dirar, Kopp
 and Kaewunruen have served on steering committees including BSI, ASTM and ASCE, and
 many European standards committees. Jack sits on the Technical Advisory Board of the
 International High Speed Rail Association. Roberts sits on the UK rail industry Technical
 Leaders Group and the Technical Advisory Panel to Singapore Metro. We sit on technical
 committees including ISSMGE, Sustainable Geotechnics, and the Geospatial Commission’s
 National Underground Asset Register.

 Official roles with governments and intergovernmental organisations include Stolkin’s
 election as Chair of the global Nuclear Energy Agency (OECD) Expert Group on Robotics and
 Remote Systems, representing 33 nations. Fryer was a member of the MOD Defence Scientific
 Advisory Council (2014-2017) and Thomas of the MHRA Clinical Trials, Biologicals and
 Vaccines Expert Advisory Group. Cannon is a member of BEIS’s Severe Space Weather
 Steering Group, the Space Environment Impacts Expert Group, the Cabinet Office Space
 Weather Project Board, and the Blackett Review Committee on Satellite-derived time and
 position.

 Further governmental advisory positions include Founder Member and Chairman of the UK
 Graphite Technology Advisory Group to the Office of Nuclear Regulation (Bowen), member of
 the Lead Expert Group of the UK government Foresight Future of Cities Project (Rogers),
 advisor to the Met Office’s UK Climate Predictions 2018 Project (Quinn), and RAEng
 representative to the House of Commons Science & Technology Committee (Goldberg-
 Oppenheimer). Walton advised the Cabinet Office (POSTnote) on critical materials. Tight
 advised the government’s Foresight Future of Mobility report. Jack was Special Advisor to the
 Parliamentary Select Committee on Transport (2018). Papaelias contributed to the UK
 Parliament COVID-19 Outbreak Expert Database (Life Beyond COVID) and Burrow is a panel
 member for the FCO’s £28.5M Research for Community Access Partnership.

 Internationally, staff acted as advisors to United Nations agencies, the World Bank, WHO and
 NATO. Walton led the European Rare Earths Competency Network Rare Earth Recycling
 Working Group. Ding’s role on the steering committee of the Royal Society large-scale energy

                                                                                          Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 storage study led to the adaptation of policy and regulation to recognise the role of energy
 storage in the UK’s energy system. Radcliffe is shaping government policy on emissions
 reduction through roles with the House of Commons Science and Technology Select Committee,
 and UKRI Scientific Advisory Committee for Energy.

 Membership of national international grants committees

 We contribute strategic input to the direction of UK research through membership of EPSRC
 Strategic Advisory Teams (Grover, Healthcare Technology; Kendrick, Physical Sciences (2016-
 2019); Binner, Engineering (Chair, 2018)). Davenport chaired the Science and Technology
 Facilities Council’s Science Board and was a member of Innovate UK’s Advanced Materials
 Leadership Council. El Haj is Deputy Director of the Engineered Cell Environment Regenerative
 Medicine Platform (BBSRC, EPSRC, MRC). We chaired multiple UKRI panels (Rogers, Cassidy,
 Fryer). Further memberships include the ERC (El Haj, Fryer), EU COST actions (Baniotopoulos,
 Feresidis), the EU SET-Plan Implementation Group (A Hornung) and EU European Technology
 and Innovation Platform: Smart Networks for Energy Transition (Y Ding).

 Editing and peer review

 The majority of staff are involved in management and peer-review at leading journals. We are
 editors of 12 (American Geophysical Union, Biosensors (editor-in-chief), Cogent Engineering,
 Energy Storage Science & Technology, Frontiers in Medical Technology, Frontiers in
 Transportation and Transit Systems, Journal of Experimental Nanoscience, Powder Technology
 (editor-in-chief), Radio Science, Sports Engineering, Tunnelling and Underground Space
 Technology), associate editors of 28, editorial board members of a further 126, and peer
 reviewers for over 400 different titles. We also guest edited 41 special editions.

 Grant peer review

 38 staff are full members of the EPSRC Peer Review College (14 are associates) and staff have
 peer reviewed for funders including UKRI, NHS, Royal Society, Royal Academy of Engineering,
 and major charities. Jayaweera was twice recognised for outstanding contribution to EPSRC
 peer review. Internationally, staff sit on panels or peer review for funding bodies in over 28
 countries, and peer review for the ERC, EU, and the World Bank’s Strategic Research
 Programme.

 Conferences

 Staff have organised over 150 conferences and panels, from focused symposia to major
 international events such as the 69th International Academy for Production Engineering General
 Assembly (2019), co-organised by Soo and Hood in Birmingham, which featured on the BBC’s
 One Show. Further events include the Advanced Composites in Construction conference (2019),
 the International Symposium on Mixing in Industrial Processes (2017), the UK Particle
 Technology Forum (2017), the RSC Biomaterials Science Meeting (2016), the Liquid Metal
 Processing and Casting Conference (2019), and the IEEE International Conference on
 Intelligent Railroad Transportation (2016, 2018). Staff are on the Technical Programme
 Committees of IEEE RadarCon, IEEE/IET International Radar Conference, International Radar
 Symposium, and the IET International Conference on Railway Engineering, amongst many
 others. Significant chairing roles include RAEng Everywoman Academy and IAM Women in
 Infrastructure discussion panels, UN workshops and multiple international congresses.

 Invited talks

 All staff engage in research dissemination through national and international events. Nearly 700
 invited and keynote talks occurred at conferences, universities, and industry events in 37
 countries. Select examples include Jack’s plenary at the World Congress on Railway Research,
 Milan (2016), Metje’s invited talk at the Civil Engineering Forum, Canada (2017), Basoalto’s

                                                                                          Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 address to the ECCOMAS Thematic Conference, Glasgow (2019), Mendes’s lecture at the RSC
 Conference Challenges in Nanoscience, San Diego (2014) and Grover’s at the European
 Society for Biomaterials, Dresden (2019).

 Prizes

 REF-eligible staff won over 90 prizes, reflecting the originality and impact of our research. Select
 examples include El Haj’s MRC Suffrage Award for leading women in STEM, Mendes’ 2016
 IChemE Global Award for prostate cancer research (Healthcare), and Adams’s Tribology Trust
 Silver Medal for outstanding achievement (2016, Formulation). Basoalto and Brooks’s multiscale
 approach to phase transitions in additive manufacturing won 1st Prize in the NIST AM-Bench
 2018 Challenge and Collins won the Silver Medal at the 2020 IOM3 Awards (Advanced
 Manufacturing and Materials Processing). An MoU with the British Geological Survey helped
 secure the EPSRC Assessing the Underworld project (Rogers, £5.8M), the impact of which was
 recognised by the ICE Midlands in the ‘Research & Studies’ and ‘Overall’ awards (2018, 2019,
 2020), and Street Works UK’s Best Collaborative Work award in 2017 (Infrastructure).

 BCRRE was named one of the Midlands’ most innovative businesses as part of ‘Innovation 50’
 and HydroFLEX won the BusinessGreen’s Transport Project of the Year 2020 (Rail). Cherniakov
 won the Christian Hülsmeyer award for his internationally leading work in radar (German
 Institute of Navigation, 2017, Communications and Sensing). Davenport won the Uhlig Award for
 the Corrosion Division of the Electrochemical Society (2019, Materials for Challenging
 Environments). Peters’ Innovate UK Inspirational Innovation Award was presented by Jo
 Johnson MP (2016) and Y Ding won three 2019 IChemE Global Energy Awards (Energy).

 ECRs were also recognised, e.g. Du’s Royal Society of Chemistry CSCST UK Emerging Talent
 Prize (2015), Iordachescu’s World Biomaterials Congress Young Scientist Award (2016) and
 Alberini’s EFCE Young Researcher Award in Mixing (2018).

 Collaborative PGR training

 The majority of our CDTs are collaborative, enabling students to access a wide variety of
 facilities and expertise: Fuel Cells and their Fuels (with Nottingham, Loughborough, Imperial
 College and UCL); IMPaCT (Leicester, Nottingham); Sustainable Hydrogen (Nottingham,
 Loughborough, Ulster); and Carbon Capture and Storage and Cleaner Fossil Energy
 (Nottingham, Sheffield and Loughborough). The DTP in Structural Metallic Systems runs with
 Cambridge and Swansea and the lifETIME CDT partners Glasgow, Aston and CÚRAM –
 Science Foundation Ireland. Its Birmingham-centred activities run from the HTI, at which a new
 course in medical innovation (with Trinity College Dublin) is planned.

 4.3. Concluding remarks:

 Our research environment is one that promotes collegiality and equality to support and develop
 world-class researchers to lead and influence the discipline of Engineering nationally and
 internationally. Our emphasis on collaborations with governments, industry and healthcare
 providers, and our unique ability to traverse the full translational pipeline, positions us to achieve
 the economic and societal impacts needed to address the challenges of the 21st century.




                                                                                                Page 28
