Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Sheffield Hallam University
 Unit of Assessment:
 UOA04 - Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 Overview and Context

 Our mission is to deliver excellent applied psychology research which makes a difference to the
 lives of individuals and communities. Through the creation of The Centre for Behavioural Science
 and Applied Psychology (CeBSAP), relocation within a new £27 million facility, and a strategy that
 prioritises researcher support and development, we have grown research in scale and quality and
 fostered an environment where research excellence flourishes.

 Indicators of our significant achievements include (i) growth in research income - from £21k in
 2015/16 to £336k in 2018/19; (ii) growth in research active staff - with more than double the
 number of Psychology staff returned in this submission compared to REF 2014; (iii) growth in
 contribution - securing our role as one of only six preferred partners able to provide behavioural
 insights research across local and national government in 2018-22, and our swift and effective
 response to Covid-19.


 Structure

 The Psychology subject group sits within the Department of Psychology, Sociology and Politics
 (PSP). It is the largest subject group, comprising 51 academic Psychology staff. This unit
 submission comprises 18 (17.6fte) staff. The institution did not make a submission to UoA 4 in
 REF 2014, however eight Psychology staff submitted to the following five units: UoA 3, UoA 5,
 UoA 24, UoA 32, UoA 34. Alignment with these units reflects our longstanding focus on
 interdisciplinarity and our established areas of applied research excellence connecting into Health,
 Biosciences, Education, Art & Design and Communication.


 Research and Impact Strategy

 Our areas of excellence underpinned our plan to establish and grow a new research centre that
 strategically harnessed our interdisciplinarity under core themes of Behavioural Science, Neuro-
 Cognitive Testing, and Applied Theory and Methods. Through the strategic growth of the centre,
 we significantly expanded our capacity for delivering excellent research in regional, national, and
 international contexts.

 Our 2015-2020 strategy had three core objectives:

    (i)      Create a strong, outward facing research culture, enabling us to foster external
             partnerships with an applied focus.

    (ii)     Increase research active staff, enabling us to build capacity and undertake research at
             scale.

    (iii)    Improve research quality and prioritise interdisciplinarity, enabling us to deliver
             research with impact.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Achievement of Strategic Aims During the Assessment Period

 To meet our objectives, we significantly expanded our research leadership capacity from a
 single Principal Lecturer for Research in 2015, to a Research Leadership Team (RLT) which
 comprises three Professors and seven Readers. RLT growth has been facilitated by the
 creation of the SHU Reader promotion route, introduced under the Academic Careers Framework.
 The RLT lead research across all three subject groups in the Department. All members of the RLT
 model research excellence in their own practice and contribute to research leadership.

 This increased capacity enabled us to: (i) grow our research income, securing funding from
 national and international funding bodies, including MRC [Confidence in Concept, MR_PC_16058,
 £33,373, Barker] and Erasmus+ [incl. 603388-EPP-1-2018-1-UK-SPO-SCP, £379,015, Lazuras],
 and (ii) extend external local and regional government partnerships (e.g. Arden with Doncaster
 Borough Council and Sheffield City Council), and contribute to university research priorities
 (Ypsilanti chair of college ethics committee).


 New Centre

 In 2018, with start-up investment of £250,000 from the University, we launched The Centre for
 Behavioural Science and Applied Psychology (CeBSAP). Under the leadership of Arden, an
 internationally esteemed Professor of Health Psychology, CeBSAP now provides the
 infrastructure for all Psychology research in the Department, and it is our primary conduit for
 engagement with external partners, impact activities and knowledge exchange. All members of
 the Psychology staff are affiliated with CeBSAP and variously work on projects aligned with their
 expertise. CeBSAP has formed strong partnerships with the recently established Research
 Institutes, it draws admin support directly from the Social and Economic Research Institute, and it
 has established an agreement with the Advanced Wellbeing Research Centre (AWRC) to act as
 the lead contributor of Behavioural Science expertise.




 Dr Tim Chadborn, Head of Behavioural Insights and Evaluation Lead for Public Health England
 delivers keynote lecture at the CeBSAP launch, attended by 120 delegates from local government,
 public health, healthcare, education, policing, business, and voluntary sector.

 CeBSAP is organised around three intellectual themes which reflect our areas of strength: (i)
 Behavioural Science, Behaviour Change and Well-Being; (ii) Neuro-Cognitive Testing; (iii) Applied


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Psychological Theory and Methods. Each theme is led by a member of the RLT and staff may link
 to one or more theme.


 (i) Behavioural Science, Behaviour Change and Well-Being

 We have significant expertise in the development of behaviour change interventions which are
 founded on psychological theory to improve health and well-being. Researchers for this theme
 include Arden [impact author and theme lead], Lazuras, Millings, Porritt [impact author], Thorneloe
 [ECR] along with wider members of the staff group.

 Examples of our work under this theme reflect our commitment to lead in research which directly
 benefits the lives of individuals and communities. Projects include work commissioned by
 Doncaster Metropolitan Borough Council as one of 12 Sport England local delivery pilots seeking
 to improve levels of engagement with physical activity [DN355394, £118,910]. This research was
 led by Arden and co-delivered by Thorneloe, along with other members of the psychology staff
 group, including Kilby (whose interdisciplinary research is submitted under UoA34), collaborators
 in other areas of the university, and colleagues at the University of Manchester. The project, which
 developed behavioural interventions to combat low levels of physical activity in local communities,
 utilised co-design methodology, empowering people to contribute to research in their own
 communities and help design appropriate interventions.

 Our two impact case studies also fall under this theme. One project is our work concerned
 with reducing Dental Anxiety amongst children [ICS1]. This NIHR funded work [PB-PG-1111-
 26029, total grant £230,662] is led by Porritt in collaboration with colleagues at the University of
 Sheffield. The impact of their cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) toolkit to reduce dental anxiety
 in children and young people is now widely used across the UK and incorporated into the clinical
 care pathway for the management of anxious patients for dentists working in NHS England Central
 Midlands.

 Another major project involves Arden’s leading contribution to a multidisciplinary team of
 academics and clinicians working to improve and extend the lives of people with cystic fibrosis
 [ICS2]. Arden is the behaviour change lead for this NIHR funded research [RP-PG-1212-20015,
 £79,917], which has led the development of an intervention to increase adherence to medication
 in adults with cystic fibrosis. The CFHealthHub intervention is increasingly embedded within
 clinical practice, with 19 UK centres now using this intervention to change people’s lives.

 Our applied work is also impacting national and international policy in the context of anti-
 doping education. Funded by the European Commission’s Erasmus+ Sport Programme, the
 award-winning project SAFE YOU [579828-EPP-1-2016-2-EL-SPO-SLP, £46,935], developed
 web-based anti-doping education resources for recreational and elite athletes. As a lead
 psychologist, Lazuras worked with academics, sport stakeholders, and anti-doping practitioners
 from UK, Greece, Cyprus, Italy, and Germany. SAFE YOU received additional funding from the
 World Anti-Doping Agency to test its effectiveness in elite athletes. It has informed the education
 programme of the Cyprus Anti-Doping Authority and been recognised as a Success Story by the
 European Commission for raising public awareness about the problem of doping in fitness and
 amateur sport.


 (ii) Neuro-Cognitive Testing

 Our expertise here underpins our objectives to: (i) bridge the gap between theory and practice in
 neurosciences and healthcare; (ii) develop new diagnostic tools and functional measures; and (iii)
 undertake cross-cutting work in areas of perception, cognition, sleep, language, brain injury,
 concussion and stroke. Researchers for this theme include Akram [ECR], Barker [theme lead],
 Daneyko, Taroyan, Thirkettle, Ypsilanti, and members of the wider department.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Examples include Barker’s CogLAB research developing computerised digital technology
 to diagnose cognitive impairment after stroke, brain injury or in early dementia patients
 using a single comprehensive assessment task [output 554]. Barker, in collaboration with
 Sheffield Teaching Hospitals and Rotherham, Doncaster and South Humber NHS Foundation
 Trust, has led MRC portfolio-funded clinical research. The product is moving towards regulatory
 approvals as a type IIa diagnostic device. The research received additional industry funding from
 Grow MedTech and it was awarded first prize for in the Medipex Mental Health and Wellbeing
 category as a new electronic measure of cognitive function for use with neurological patients
 (2015-16).

 Our focus on the applied benefits of technology and innovation is also evident in the work of
 Ypsilanti and Lazuras and their collaboration with regional industry partners SleepCogni. Having
 secured £234k funding from Innovate UK’s Biomedical Catalyst [31240, £51,340 to SHU], Ypsilanti
 and Lazuras are leading research to evaluate and enhance the patented biofeedback wearable
 device and optimise its effectiveness in treating insomnia symptoms.

 Barker has also led a multidisciplinary team to investigate microbiome, symptoms and cognitive
 profile in Parkinson’s Disease using RCT (NCT04140760). Initially involving partners from
 University of Sheffield, Sheffield Teaching Hospitals and the Sheffield Institute of Translational
 Neuroscience (SiTRAN), this developing work has extended to include partnerships with Gaisford
 (School of Pharmacy, UCL), Chaudhuri (Parkinson’s Foundation Centre of Excellence, King’s
 College London), McDermott (SiTRAN).


 (iii) Applying Psychological Theories and Research Methods

 Work under this theme is responsive to the diverse practical needs of external partners in
 commercial, technological, public and third-sector environments. We help clients by applying
 psychological methods and theories to address real world problems and arrive at solutions or
 interventions. Researchers in this theme include Aguado, Brown [ECR], Kilby [submitted to
 UoA34], Merry [ECR], Reidy, Soranzo [theme lead], Verrier, Whitfield and members of the wider
 department.

 Brown [ECR] has collaborated with management consultancy firm Lane4 on research to improve
 support for athletes as they transition out of elite sports [output 592]. Brown’s research with
 former Olympians underpinned the development of a group-based intervention programme
 that was co-delivered by Brown and Lane4. After successful pilot, the intervention was rolled
 out nationally with support from the British Athletes Commission. The programme has been
 attended by athletes from across the spectrum of Olympic sports.

 Reidy has applied his expertise in quantitative methods in his collaboration with Age UK on the
 LEAF-7 project. Leaf 7 is a quality of life and outcomes measurement tool for use with vulnerable
 older adults. Reidy led work to evaluate validity and extend the test. This robust measure has now
 been used in more than 3000 assessments.

 Under the umbrella of the Applied theme, Whitfield leads a small group of forensic
 psychologists who undertake research designed to support crime reduction with a
 particular focus on young people. Whitfield and colleagues have secured funding from the
 Home Office to undertake research for the South Yorkshire Violence Reduction Unit, and HMI
 Probation funding to evaluate Youth Offending Teams. The team also secured N8 Policing
 Research Partnership funding to conduct research with young people, exploring the effects of
 knife crime imagery on perceptions and attitudes towards knife crime. This research is informing
 the design of knife crime intervention. In other work, Whitfield and Merry [ECR] secured NSPCC
 funding to investigate the risk of sexual harm to young people engaged in competitive online
 gaming and eSports. This work will contribute to the development of policy and industry
 safeguarding guidance.


                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Interdisciplinarity

 We work closely with applied social and health researchers located across the University in
 research centres, including Sport and Physical Activity Research Centre (SPARC), The Centre for
 Regional Economic Social Research (CRESR), and The Centre for Development and Research
 in Education (CDARE). We also maintain an important relationship as the lead behavioural
 science provider for The Advanced Wellbeing Research Centre (AWRC), with a member of our
 staff seconded one day per week to work in the AWRC. Through these collaborative partnerships
 we apply our cross-cutting expertise to a wide variety of behavioural science projects and
 contribute to collaborative bids for external research funding.

 Our commitment to interdisciplinarity is further reflected in our close affiliations with the Sheffield
 Institute for Policy Studies, the Sheffield Institute of Education, and the Cultural, Communication
 and Computing Research Institute. These affiliations support and reflect some of our
 interdisciplinary areas of strength. Our interdisciplinarity means that, alongside developing our
 submission to UoA 4, where appropriate Psychology staff are submitted to other units (Furness
 UoA 3, Kilby UoA 34, Reidy L UoA 23). The unit of assessment co-ordinator for UoA 4 acts as a
 link co-ordinator between the Department and other relevant unit of assessment co-ordinators.
 This ensures that we have a complete understanding of the work that our staff are engaged in and
 enables us to provide appropriate support. All Psychology staff have equal opportunities to access
 departmental QR funding initiatives, regardless of which UoA they are aligned with. We see our
 support for collaborative, interdisciplinary and cross-cutting research as a particular strength of
 our research culture and we are committed to continuing to provide full support for staff to
 undertake high quality research and for it to be judged as such wherever is most appropriate.


 Open Research and Research Integrity

 All research activity is subject to strict ethical scrutiny via the University ethics procedures and is
 compliant with the University commitment to the concordat to support research integrity. All staff
 are required to have ethical approval in place prior to commencing any planned research. Many
 of our staff also act as research ethics reviewers. We have also implemented measures to enable
 the tracking and quality assessment of funding proposals.

 All external funding proposals are routed through the RLT for early peer review before being
 progressed to the formal University RKT/Research and Innovation Service review processes. This
 allows us to identify researcher support and development needs and enables us to monitor levels
 of grant application and bid-to-capture outcomes.

 Staff are encouraged to apply for University funding to support gold open access publication of
 research where appropriate, and guidance is provided to ensure staff make informed choices
 about appropriate open access journals. All staff are systematically reminded to make all other
 publications available as green open access through the institutional repository.


 Future Strategic Plans for Research and Impact

 Our strategy for research and impact for the next five years will deliver against the following
 objectives:

  •       Continue our ‘bottom up’ approach to researcher development and increase our number
          of research active staff and our research quality. Our current research intensity is 35%
          and we are aiming for 50% within this timeframe, in line with institutional objectives.
  •       Grow staff capacity for bid generation activities and secure external income in line with
          university targets. To do this we will build on our funding successes with local and
          regional government authorities, pursue further NIHR, MRC and Innovate UK

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           opportunities, and increase our contract research and knowledge exchange activities.
           We aim for 15% year-on-year increase.
  •        Invest in the capacity and capabilities of research staff to undertake and/or increase the
           impact of their research. In support of this we will widen staff sabbatical/secondment
           opportunities, providing greater scope to undertake impact work via CeBSAP or through
           partnerships with AWRC and CRESR. We will also seek secondment opportunities for
           staff to work with our external partners in local authority and/or commercial contexts.
  •        Pursue additional opportunities for collaborative interdisciplinary research with
           other research centres and research institutes, particularly through the AWRC
           behavioural science partnership and opportunities presented through the Research
           Institutes.



 2. People


 Staffing strategy and staff development

 The increase in both scale and quality of our research is reflected in this submission. A
 total of 21 Psychology staff are submitted to REF 2021, compared to eight in 2014. 18 staff
 are submitted to UoA 4 and three are submitted to other units (UoA 3, UoA 23, UoA 34). This
 section sets out how we have placed a significant focus on researcher career support and
 development as the foundation for growth.


 Research Career Development

 Our strategy for research career development is informed by the Academic Careers Framework
 (ACF) (see Institutional Statement) which provides a University-wide recognition and reward
 structure for all academic staff.

 Our strategy for research development has three central objectives:

      •   To support existing research active staff and enable them to pursue and grow their
          research excellence in a manner that is demonstrable via indicators such as high-quality
          outputs, external research income, impact, career progression.
      •   To support ECRs by fostering a culture of research excellence which prioritises quality not
          quantity, provides resources and support to begin producing high quality outputs, builds
          knowledge and confidence about external funding streams, and enables access to
          appropriate opportunities.
      •   To support staff that have been research active previously but have not produced high
          quality outputs in recent years and who wish to re-engage with research.

 These objectives are well aligned with the wider University objectives for researcher development
 which are underpinned by the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, and
 we link our researcher career development support up with the resources available through the
 Sheffield Hallam Researcher Development (SHaRD) programme. To ensure we can achieve
 these Departmental objectives we have a member of the RLT who has a dedicated
 responsibility for researcher career development and, aligned with our objectives, we have
 fostered a culture founded on three central values: (i) Inclusivity, (ii) Opportunity (iii) Quality.

 (i) Inclusivity begins at day one. New staff participate in an induction meeting with the
 designated Research Lead within the first month of joining, to provide key information and
 help integrate them within our research culture. This meeting is also an opportunity for the RLT to
 become familiar with the research interests of new staff, be appraised of any ongoing research

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 activities/external funding that new staff are involved with, and identify potential fit with existing
 areas of research.

 We host a vibrant programme of regular research events for all staff including ECRs and PGRs.
 This includes monthly 'Twilight Wednesday' events that are led by the RLT with input from
 external speakers. The content of each session is driven by staff requests regarding their
 research needs (e.g. open science, external funding sources and bid writing, and working with
 industry and external partners). These sessions provide a site where staff can discuss a range of
 research related issues in an informal and collaborative environment.

 We also host a monthly Research Seminar series, led by a staff member who has work planned
 time for this activity. The seminar series is carefully organised to ensure that all areas of research
 interest are covered and that both quantitative and qualitative psychology is showcased. PGRs
 are encouraged to attend.

 In 2016 we revised our process to ensure that all key research communications happen within
 subject group meetings. The Psychology subject group meetings are attended by all Psychology
 staff, which includes those who may not be currently research active. Our objective here is to
 counter any potential divide between research active/non-active staff, ensuring all staff are valued
 for their research capability, remain aware of research developments and opportunities, and
 receive encouragement to pursue them.

 (ii) Opportunities available to staff include a Departmental sabbatical scheme that enables staff
 to take a semester away from all teaching and administrative duties. The scheme was introduced
 in 2014/15 and supports 3-4 sabbaticals per semester across all three subject groups. All staff
 are eligible including ECRs and staff returning to research. Applicants submit a research plan
 for panel review and decisions are based on the appropriateness of the research plan for the
 individual staff member. Sabbaticals can be used to undertake a range of activities including
 impact activities and knowledge exchange. They can also be used by staff who wish to spend time
 on secondment to research centres in the University or to spend time elsewhere in the UK or
 overseas fostering collaborations. Staff can also request to take a sabbatical to spend time in
 external settings, researching with partners in industry, business or other environments. Between
 2014/15 - 2020/21 33 psychology staff were awarded a sabbatical. Outcomes include the
 progression of Aguado’s research on language development. During his sabbatical he was able
 to research overseas and complete a series of new data analyses, which built upon his prior work
 [output 553] and contributed to further outputs [output 589].

 To support staff in dedicating time for writing, since 2014 we have invested QR funding to host an
 annual writing retreat. All staff including are invited to attend this event which is hosted off
 campus. We ensure the location is easily accessible and we have offered a residential option for
 any staff with a significant commute. Following staff feedback, in 2017 the event was extended
 from 3 to 5 days. In 2019, following staff requests, we introduced a second 5-day retreat, thus we
 now host a retreat each semester. Approximately 12-15 staff attend each retreat.

 We invest QR funding to support specific research activities via a Departmental small grants
 scheme. This is a rolling scheme with calls being issued approximately three times per semester.
 It is open to staff who have demonstrated themselves to be research active and who have
 previously produced high quality research. It provides seed-corn funding to support pilot work,
 prepare grant applications, undertake impact work or undertake additional work on papers
 following review. Staff can also apply for funds to cover Research Assistant costs, ancillary
 research costs, participant incentives and travel expenses, and transcription costs. There is no
 absolute limit on the amount that can be requested but typically we fund bids up to £5,000. Whilst
 this funding is only accessible to established researchers, we encourage early career or returning
 researchers to bid collaboratively with experienced researchers.

 Since 2016 we have also invested QR funds into targeted Researcher Development events that
 are open to all staff including ECRs. Staff can also invite external partners to attend. For each

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3-day event we have retained the services of external funding experts to help develop and run the
 events. These events are designed to increase knowledge and confidence of the external funding
 landscape and to support staff in building collaborative research bids with external researchers,
 and with external partners based in industry, business or third sector environments. These events
 have supported over 50 staff from across the Department. Outcomes have included the
 formation of new research alliances and the formation of a small Research Interest Group,
 who subsequently secured internal funding and are demonstrating impact through broadcast
 interviews and sharing their work via The Conversation (20k reads).

 All staff are financially supported to attend at least one national and/or international
 conference a year. Research active staff who are seeking to present at additional conferences
 or other events often receive additional funding to help them maximise their external engagement
 and to support impact and knowledge exchange. Support for ECR staff is particularly important
 and includes Thorneloe’s attendance at the Behavioural Science and Public Health Network
 conference (Jan 2020) where she presented research funded by Public Health England.

 In addition to career guidance that staff receive via the University process of annual Performance
 and Development Review, we introduced a Departmental mentoring programme, which is open
 to all staff. Mentees and mentors are matched based on the objectives of the mentee (e.g.
 requiring early career guidance, seeking promotion to Reader/Professor). We also take account
 of gender preferences, ensuring that female researchers have opportunities to receive mentorship
 from more senior female colleagues where appropriate. All mentors undertake training before they
 work with a mentee and all mentees undertake an introductory session to outline how mentoring
 works and to help ensure that they fully benefit from the process. Since 2014, the scheme has
 attracted between 8-15 psychology staff each year. Uptake reflects staff at all career stages
 from ECR to Senior Staff Grade.

 (iii) Driving up research quality is integral to all the initiatives outlined above. The key message
 shared with staff in all communications is quality over quantity. Applications for small grants
 funding, sabbaticals and attendance to writing retreats are all reviewed by a panel from RLT
 against criteria which emphasise quality. Our focus on quality is further supported by the
 implementation of an annual research plan, which aligns with wider University
 requirements for research planning. This process encourages staff to focus their
 objectives around increasing and maintaining research quality, and does not encourage
 individual staff to diversify too widely or reward staff based on quantity of outputs or
 volume of activities engaged with. We work with early career staff to help them gradually build
 a research portfolio and scaffold their research career development with close support from peers
 and research leads.

 We have further developed mechanisms for regularly assessing quality of outputs. All staff who
 are producing high quality research are encouraged to undertake peer-review training, led by the
 RLT, and equality and diversity training. They are then invited to contribute to reading panel away-
 days. Novice reviewers are partnered with experienced reviewers to review outputs and assess
 originality, significance and rigour. This activity supports staff to drive up quality in their own
 research and further embeds quality assessment activities within the Department. Between 2014-
 2020 we have provided review feedback to 39 psychology staff. Other research quality
 initiatives include providing internal review of draft papers for ECRs and hosting researcher
 development events to provide guidance on issues such as writing for publication, research data
 management and preparing funding applications.


 Recruitment

 Recruitment is undertaken in accordance with the University policies for equality, diversity and
 inclusion. Shortlisting is a transparent process which involves assessing whether applicants meet
 the requirements of the person specification. Interview panels, including those for PhD
 studentships, are required to include female and male panel members. All staff involved in

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 recruitment and selection are required to have undertaken training offered by the University, which
 includes training on equal opportunities legislation and gender and diversity. As well as
 contributing to interview panels, RLT review applications and to consider strategic alignment
 between applicants and our core research themes.


 Postgraduate Research (PGR) Students

 Presently, there are 39 full and part-time Psychology doctoral students, including Home and
 International students. Students are recruited by rigorous University policies of inclusion, diversity
 and equality. Recruitment, resourcing, training needs and pastoral care is overseen by the
 departmental Postgraduate Research Tutor (PGRT), who is a member of the RLT, and a deputy
 PGRT (senior lecturer).

 PGRs are engaged in diverse PhD topics that align with CeBSAP core themes, including health
 behaviour, neuroscience, forensic, social, developmental and cognitive psychology. Research
 diversity is reflected in collaborative partnerships with local and regional NHS Trusts, the Home
 Office, Crown Prosecution Service and South Yorkshire Police, the Children’s Hospital, local
 charities, local council, schools and other educational organisations encompassing various patient
 groups and stakeholders.

 Student supervision is team-based comprising a Director of Studies, supported by one/two second
 supervisors and/or advisors, who may be external, fostering inter-university collaboration and
 knowledge exchange. Each supervision team meets requirements of two PhD completions and
 relevant good quality publications. Alongside University provision, Psychology offers bi-annual
 supervisor practice and process sessions within the department to disseminate new University
 regulations, share good practice, expertise and skills, and address - through shared experience -
 any issues arising within teams. PGRs select two student representatives each year to liaise with
 PGRT team and Head of Research Degrees on their behalf, attend University-wide student-staff
 liaison committees and engage in induction activities for new students.

 Student progress is formally monitored at several points: (i) approval of research programme, (ii)
 confirmation of PhD, (iii) submission, and (iv) completion. Research approval is conducted by an
 independent rapporteur against quality, resource, rigour and feasibility criteria. Students complete
 multiple modules online (Epigeum) in their research training, to ensure that excellent academic
 integrity is maintained across the PhD period.

 Confirmation takes place after the first year (two years for part-time), assessed by two independent
 rapporteurs, to ratify progression from masters to PhD level. PGRs submit a 6,000-word progress
 report, provide a 20-minute presentation and engage in a mini-viva type discussion with
 rapporteurs. Supervisors remain present to provide support to the student. The student
 determines whether the presentation is open to peers and departmental staff or closed
 including only supervisors and rapporteurs. The former option provides a learning outcome
 for PGR students, an opportunity to experience the assessment process, support their peers, and
 practice formulating and asking critical questions in a constructive and considered way.
 Presentations are typically vibrant, stimulating and interactive platforms for PGRs. The closed
 option accommodates students with anxiety and/or learning contracts, and ensures that these
 factors are sensitively incorporated into this assessment procedure.

 In addition to formal assessment points, Tracker Panel meetings occur across the academic
 calendar, scheduled between confirmation and submission. Panels include rapporteurs,
 supervisors and PGRT team, who meet with the student to monitor progress, discuss research-
 based/supervision problems, and identify additional training needs or resources required for
 completion. A report with recommendations and action plan is generated post-panel for
 supervisors and student.



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Students are encouraged to join and participate in Departmental research activities and to
 attend external research talks. They are invited to the attend the Twilight Wednesday sessions
 to substantiate their research skills augmenting academic knowledge, and they have the option to
 attend a yearly departmentally-funded writing retreat, to progress an identified piece of research
 or develop a manuscript draft. Additionally, students set the agenda for monthly research
 breakfasts, attended by PGRT team and staff, chair quarterly student-led committee meetings with
 PGRT team, and engage in ongoing skills training to support academic development. All PGR
 students receive a £500 annual bursary for conference/workshop/knowledge exchange
 activities to foster engagement with the wider academic community. Additionally, a bi-annual
 award system exists within the department to incentivise students and encourage outstanding
 endeavours, either in research or as a collegial member of the PhD community.

 A Shine award is presented to two PGRs who are judged to have made an outstanding contribution
 to departmental academic output. Similarly, the Best Developing Academic award (BDA)
 recognises the role of PGRs in promoting a respectful, supportive workplace environment, voted
 by their peers. Shine recipients have published book chapters and manuscripts in good-quality
 peer-reviewed journals and engaged in community-based interventions, for example establishing
 a perinatal mental health forum for new fathers, during the PhD period. Award winners receive an
 official University certificate to add to their portfolio and take with them as they progress and
 vouchers to spend.

 PRES summary data for 2019 show SHU ranked 12th highest for research skills, 9th highest for
 research culture, and 22nd highest for supervision. SHU was in the highest quartile for 7 out of
 8 areas of doctoral provision.

 Each year, students host an annual internal PGR conference to disseminate their work. In 2019,
 PGRs in Psychology succeeded in their bid to host the 34th annual PsyPAG conference ‘for
 postgraduates by postgraduates’. 72 speakers and approximately 150 delegates attended, with
 the conference achieving broad acclaim and media interest. At the invitation of the conference
 organisers, Professor Sir Chris Husbands, Vice-Chancellor of Sheffield Hallam University
 delivered one keynote lecture, and Professor Arden delivered another.




   PGR organising committee receiving appreciation at the National PsyPAG conference close.


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Equality and Diversity

 The gender breakdown of staff submitted to UoA 4 is 9w/9m. It includes 4 ECRs, (1w/3m) and 2
 Senior Staff Grades (1w/1m). The additional three psychology staff submitted to other units are all
 women. Growth in our Department RLT reflects staff securing promotion to Professor and Reader
 positions. This includes six psychologists (4f/2m): Arden (promoted to Reader and then
 Professor); Barker, Kilby (submitted with UoA34), Lazuras, Soranzo and Ypsilanti promoted to
 Reader. We have paid careful attention to equality and diversity issues integral to the development
 of our research culture. This is reflected both in our methods of communication with staff, our
 commitment to supporting research activity across all staff, and how we have arrived at our
 submission corpus. All staff involved in research reviewing processes are required to complete
 the University equality and diversity training beforehand. We also monitor review panels to ensure
 they comprise female and male reviewers.

 The Psychology subject group holds an Athena Swan bronze award, recognising that we have
 the systems and support in place within the Department to "recognise the advancement of gender
 equality: representation, progression and success for all" (Athena Swan charter). Whilst Athena
 Swan is primarily focused on gender, we seek to uphold these same values across all protected
 characteristics listed under the Equality Act (2010).

 We have pursued opportunities to improve equality within recruitment and development
 processes. We have worked with the University Equality and Diversity team and with
 external consultants to develop unconscious bias training, which was offered to all staff with
 involvement in recruitment or people development. All interview panel chairs remind the panel of
 their responsibilities in relation to equality, diversity and inclusion, and we have reviewed and
 revised our recruitment material to ensure the wording promotes equality and diversity, and
 incorporates a link to University recruitment pages, which portray a mix of gender and other
 protected characteristics.

 All our research initiatives (e.g. sabbaticals, PhD supervision) are managed through transparent,
 written application processes. Decisions are made following review by RLT. The panel always
 comprises female and male reviewers, all of whom have completed the SHU equality and diversity
 training. Our research mentoring system ensures that staff are supported in their research career
 development in the context of their own circumstances. Mentoring often involves exploring the
 challenges of work/life balance and/or working with staff to address issues of research confidence
 and developing an external research presence. We aim to recognise and support staff where
 traditional gender division can create inequality, and we ensure that our female colleagues have
 strong female role models. The Psychology staff group includes one female Professor and
 three female Readers, as well as many other female research active staff, who are excelling
 in their areas of research.

 Most Psychology staff are full time permanent staff; however, we do have a small number of staff
 who are part time. We have been careful to ensure that part time staff are equally well supported
 to remain research active and to ensure that opportunities are accessible to them to support their
 development of high-quality research. One of our leading researchers and impact case study
 author (Porritt, ICS1) is a part time colleague with a 0.6 FTE contract. To ensure that her
 research and impact work is appropriately supported we have provided additional work planned
 hours above the threshold requirements for this individual and we have provided additional
 research assistant support.

 All staff can make a formal request for flexible working, typically we do not receive such requests.
 To a large extent we believe this reflects the culture of the Department which allows staff to
 informally manage the timing of their day-to-day activities to fit around scheduled teaching
 commitments according to their own circumstances. This includes staff having the flexibility to
 work from home wherever possible. Such an ethos is something which we continue to protect.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Six out of 73 members of permanent academic staff, across all three subject groups in the
 department, are from a BAME background (8%), which is lower than our BAME student population
 (22%) and the Sheffield BAME population (16%). As part of our Athena Swan work, we have
 developed initiatives with an ambition to increase the diversity of our staff group. The Department
 BAME project lead has worked closely with the Head of Equality and Community
 Engagement at SHU to create staff development workshops, which examine issues
 affecting BAME students and staff. This workshop has now been delivered to 59 staff, as
 well as PGRs. To further support our ongoing work, a Research Lead has also established a
 Race and Ethnicity Reading Group, with membership from across the Department.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 Growth in Research Funding

 We have substantially increased our external research income over the period, from £21k
 in 2015/16, £47k in 2016/17, £82k in 2017/18, £336k in 2018/19, to £200k in 2019/20. This
 growth reflects the strategic activities to increase of our research capacity, and the development
 of our mixed funding portfolio. The £250k start-up investment in CeBSAP co-funded the Director
 post for the first year of operation and supported the recruitment of two Senior Research Fellows
 (SRF), an administrator and research assistants. Our SRFs (Millings and Thorneloe), working
 alongside the wider staff group, have substantially increased our bid generation activities, helping
 secure new funds (e.g. Thorneloe and Arden, Blackpool Council).

 An early CeBSAP achievement was securing the 'Behavioural Insights Framework Agreement'
 with the Crown Commercial Services in 2018. The agreement positioned CeBSAP as one of
 only six preferred partners able to provide behavioural insights research across local and
 national government between 2018-2022, and the only University-led partner on the
 framework. With a potential value of up to £16 million over 4 years, this success was a significant
 milestone in establishing CeBSAP as a nationally recognised provider of behavioural insights
 expertise. Under the Framework Agreement, CeBSAP quickly secured a contract with Doncaster
 Metropolitan Borough Council and then a further contract with Blackpool Council.

 We have also won behavioural science-related contracts with: Public Health England to deliver an
 evidence review on Health Care Professional behaviour in relation to shared decision making for
 physical activity; Public Health Wales to deliver a project undertaking research and intervention
 co-design to address Influenza Vaccine Hesitancy within NHS Wales Staff (subsequently
 extended to include Covid-19 vaccination); and the Environment Agency to support an
 understanding of behavioural factors associated with flood resilience home interventions.

 The development of a mixed model portfolio ensures we maximise both grant funding and contract
 research monies. We have secured funding from a range of funders including: the MRC,
 NIHR, Erasmus+, Public Health England, Public Health Wales, Innovate UK and the NSPCC.


 QR Funding Strategy

 Following REF 2014, QR funding was invested into the Department which enabled us to support
 the range of initiatives that have been outlined in earlier sections of this document. Our QR funded
 initiatives have been carefully structured to ensure that there is a good mix of support for staff
 across the Department. This includes support for ECRs and staff returning to research, as well as
 targeted support for highly research active staff, to enable them to continue to build on existing
 research excellence.



                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Through regular consultation with the whole Department, research development needs are
 annually reviewed by the RLT and initiatives are revised to ensure return on investment is
 maximised. We strongly encourage researchers who seek to engage in knowledge exchange and
 impact activities, and to build relationships with internal and external partners. For example, Lamb,
 who is an ECR, is seconded to the AWRC one day a week to integrate CeBSAP and AWRC
 activities. Our sabbatical scheme criteria, as well as our small funds scheme, are designed to
 ensure that impact activities and external engagement are eligible.


 Research Facilities

 Following a £27 million pound investment in a state-of-the-art ‘Heart of the Campus’ building, the
 Department settled into a new purpose-built facility in September 2014. The building provides
 outstanding facilities for research and teaching, as well as staff offices. All members of the
 Department are situated here, and all our doctoral research students are also based here, which
 ensures that they are fully integrated within the Department. Our team of two dedicated
 psychology technicians are also based in the Department, which ensures that technical
 support is readily available. The building also houses our laboratory facilities and research
 equipment. Investment in these facilities has again supported the growth in our research activities,
 aligned with our core themes. Facilities include:

    •   Video Recording Suite and Video Suite Classroom
    •   Food Testing and Food Preparation Laboratory
    •   Psychophysiology Laboratory - equipped with three Biopacs which enable the collection
        and recording of physiological data. These can be used in conjunction with PlayStations
        and exercise equipment.
    •   EEG Laboratory and EEG Recording Laboratory - housing a 128 channel EEG machine
        and a separate EEG analysis room.
    •   Psychophysics Laboratory - equipped with a VSG system for low level vision studies.
    •   Two Eye Tracking Laboratories - which house two Tobii PC eye-trackers and three Tobii
        mobile eye-trackers for use in fieldwork.
    •   Retinal Imaging Laboratory - equipped with a TopconTM, non-invasive, non-mydriatic,
        swept source optical coherence tomography (OCT) system. The kit is portable so can be
        used in fieldwork.
    •   Speech Laboratory - a sound attenuated room has been created for conducting
        psycholinguistic experiments involving speech production, language comprehension and
        reading tasks.
    •   Interview/focus group suites.




            Purpose built ‘Heart of the Campus’ building which houses the Department.


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

 CeBSAP led the formation of the Behavioural Science Consortium, which unites researchers
 based in other SHU centres: AWRC, CDARE, CRESR, and researchers at the University of
 Manchester. This partnership was pivotal for the development of the Centre and underpinned
 CeBSAP securing the Behavioural Insights Framework Agreement.

 Partnership working is integral to delivering our commitment to undertake applied research that
 makes a difference to people’s lives. We have numerous national and international academic
 partnerships, leading to innovative research and outcomes with impact (e.g. Akram’s sleep
 research with partners at Northumbria University, and Lazuras’ work on doping in sports
 undertaken with partners across Europe). We also enjoy diverse collaborations with colleagues at
 the University of Sheffield linked to a range of projects (Barker, Porritt, Lazuras, Taroyan,
 Ypsilanti).

 We maintain mixed collaborations with academic and non-academic partners, including Barker’s
 partnership with University of Sheffield and Sheffield Teaching Hospitals, and Arden’s
 multidisciplinary work with clinicians and academics at UCL, Bradford, Ulster and Queen’s
 Belfast. Collaboration is integral to Arden’s Cystic Fibrosis research [ICS2] and ensures that
 patient’s lives are directly benefitting from her research [output 783]. We also have formed
 strategic partnerships with South Yorkshire Police and Probation Services. The partnership work
 of Whitfield and members of the wider staff in areas of youth crime reduction has led to impacts
 that benefit young people and the wider communities of South Yorkshire.


 Engagement with Research Users, Beneficiaries or Audiences

 We have forged relationships with organisations that enable us to connect directly with research
 users. For example, our connection with the Yorkshire and Humber Behavioural Science in
 Public Health Hub has helped us deliver behavioural science training and knowledge
 directly to local and regional partners. We have delivered behavioural science training to c.80
 employees of Sheffield City Council to improve their delivery of local resident services (Arden and
 members of the wider Department). We have trained members of Doncaster Public Health in areas
 of health behaviour change to support their work with residents (Arden and Thorneloe).

 We have sought out partnerships with third sector and private organisations in order to maximise
 the impact of our work. Achievements include collaborations between Brown [ECR] and Lane4
 management consultants, Reidy’s partnership with Age UK, and Barker’s collaboration with Hive
 IT.

 In ongoing work, we are also contributing our expertise in clinical and counselling psychology,
 along with our skills in test development to support the creation of a wearable device for managing
 and monitoring anxiety. We are working in collaboration with national and regional partners Mind
 and Sheffield Wellness Centre, and with digital healthcare innovation company Bethel Neurotech
 Ltd (Reidy, Barker and members of the wider staff group).

 We have also contributed to global initiatives for the application of behavioural science,
 supporting a member of the wider staff group to volunteer with the Behavioural Science Change
 Exchange project, undertaking work to promote antimicrobial resistance in Ghana.

 We have pursued opportunities to directly engage members of the public in the development of
 our research. Porritt [ICS1] secured a RDSYH Public Involvement Grant, which enabled her

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to undertake patient and public engagement work with adults experiencing dental anxiety.
 More broadly she has engaged patient and public user groups at every stage of her research.


 Contribution to the Sustainability of the Discipline

 Since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic we have contributed to a range of projects and activities
 to disseminate behavioural science knowledge and support the development of behavioural
 interventions. This work is wide-ranging but includes:

 Thorneloe’s collaborative research with University of Manchester on contact tracing apps, which
 has been included in the papers of SAGE behavioural science subgroup SPI-B and shared at
 professional and public dissemination events.

 Arden’s role as a member of the British Psychological Society Covid-19 Behavioural Science
 Disease Prevention Taskforce. Arden has co-authored guidance designed to optimise policy
 (>5000 downloads), led a policy briefing highlighting key behaviours necessary for track and trace,
 and written for The Conversation (07/20, views 2.4k) to bring the role of behavioural science in
 tackling Covid-19 to a wider audience.

 We have also published guidance to support safe use of face masks (Arden), and expanded work
 with Public Health Wales to examining barriers and facilitators to vaccination uptake (Thorneloe).


 Indicators of Wider Influence, Contributions to and Recognition by the Research Base

 Journal Editorships

 Leading editorial contributions include Aguado’s role on the inaugural Editorial Board for Language
 Development Research (2019-present), Arden’s role as Co-editor of British Journal of Health
 Psychology (2018-present), and previously Associate Editor (2013-2017); Soranzo’s role as Editor
 for Psiholojia (2014-2018), and Guest Editor for Vision on the special issue: "Reflexive Shifts in
 Visual Attention" (2017-2018). Most of our staff undertake a wide range of supportive editorial
 duties including peer reviewing activities.

 Advisory Boards and Committees

 We contribute to a range of advisory boards and committees. These include Arden’s diverse
 contributions: (i) invited membership of the Public Health Research Hub for Yorkshire and the
 Humber (2019); (ii) Member of the Public Health England Behavioural Science Advisory Group
 (BSAG) (2019); (iii) Co-chair of the Yorkshire and Humber Behavioural Science Hub; (v) Behaviour
 change lead for CFDigital Self-Care Behavioural Science Collaborative (2020); and (vi) Member
 of the Research Sub-Committee of the BPS Division of Health Psychology (2010-2016). Porritt’s
 role as public engagement officer for BPS Division of Health Psychology (2013-2016) saw her
 lead dissemination of health research for a public and student audience. Soranzo’s contributions
 as (i) Member of the Scientific Committee of the European Conference of Visual Perception (2006-
 present); and (ii) Member of the Scientific Committee of the Visual Science of Art Conference
 (2014-present) place him at the forefront of developments in his field. Ypsilanti’s contribution as
 invited member of the advisory board of Hallam Diocesan Caring Services ensure her expertise
 on self-disgust and suicidality can contribute to local responses and support for people in crisis
 (output 715).

 Keynotes and Invited Talks

 Keynote and invited talks include Arden: Invited speaker Behavioural Science in Public Health
 Network in the North (2020), Invited speaker National Centre for Sports and Exercise Medicine
 conference (2019), Keynote PsyPAG conference (2019), Keynote Manchester Metropolitan

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University annual conference (2018). Soranzo: Keynote The Millennium Museum Sheffield (2018)
 sharing his highly regarded work on Leonardo da Vinci’s La Bella Principessa. Thorneloe: Invited
 speaker 6th Congress of the Skin Inflammation and Psoriasis International Network in Paris
 (2019), Invited speaker ‘Psoriasis Stratification to Optimise Relevant Therapy’ dissemination event
 at the Royal College of Physicians (2019), Invited speaker European Patient Innovation Summit
 (Italy) arranged by Novartis (2016). Ypsilanti: Invited speaker British Science Association
 Sheffield Branch (2019).

 Public Dissemination

 Our commitment to ensuring the impact of our research means that we also prioritise opportunities
 for widely communicating research to diverse audiences via accessible media platforms including:

    •   The Conversation - examples include Akram’s article on mental health coping mechanisms
        (published 02/20, views over 57k), Barker’s article on laughter and the brain (published
        04/17, views over 190k), Soranzo’s article on Leonardo da Vinci (published 05/19, views
        84k).
    •   Local and National Radio and Television - examples include Arden’s appearance on BBC
        Newsnight to discuss behavioural science and the easing of lockdown (June 2020), and
        Ypsilanti’s appearance on Greek National TV to discuss loneliness amongst people in the
        Balkans (July 2019).
    •   We also engage with local and regional public engagement opportunities. This includes
        regularly disseminating our work via the annual Sheffield Festival of Social Science. For
        example, Lazuras shared his innovative work around Gaming for Clean Sport. This event
        was further disseminated via the ESRC media team, reaching an audience in excess of
        150k (October 2019). Barker has also disseminated her research on cognitive function
        assessment technologies via the Medical Research Council Festival Sheffield (June 2019).




                                                                                            Page 16
