 Institution: University of the Highlands and Islands

 Unit of Assessment: 28

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Before the founding of the Centre for History (CfH) in 2005, no university department or centre had
taken as its focus the history in, of, and for, the Highlands and Islands. Since 2014, the CfH has
become a leading academic research group dedicated to research into regional, transregional, and
global histories. Through its publications and growing presence in publicly engaged medieval, early
modern and modern history - unique within a Scottish context - the CfH is now influencing regional
and national cultural bodies and institutions. It is also realising the University of the Highlands and
Islands’ (UHI) strategic plan and mission ‘to have a transformational impact on the prospects of our
region, its economy, its people and its communities’ (University of the Highlands and Islands
Strategic Vision and Plan, 2015-20, p. 2).

These developments have emerged from our response to an impressive REF 2014 performance
and UHI’s supporting of excellence in research. Assisted by senior UHI management, through the
systematic release of Research Excellence Grant funds (via the Scottish Funding Council), we
enabled significant and sustainable growth in staffing and research student numbers and an
opening-up of career pathways. This has been the catalyst for a step change in our areas of
expertise (table 1) and international standing. The CfH’s researching staff numbers are now at their
highest ever, the team comprising Head of Centre and Professor (David Worthington), Reader (Dr
Iain Robertson) charged with lead responsibilities for research, three Senior Lecturers (Dr
Elizabeth Ritchie; Dr Iain MacInnes; Dr Jim MacPherson), three Lecturers (Dr Kathrin Zickermann;
Dr Lucinda Dean; Dr Philippa Woodcock) and two Senior Researchers (Professor James Hunter;
Professor Marjory Harper). In terms of their research interests:
        • Dean works on medieval and early modern Scotland and Europe, especially on
            monarchy, ritual, gender, and public history.
        • Harper is an historian of the Scottish diaspora, with a particular interest in oral history,
            migration, and mental health.
        • Hunter is an historian of the Highlands and Islands and the region’s worldwide diaspora.
        • MacInnes is an historian of fourteenth-century Scotland, with a focus on the Scottish
            Wars of Independence and, in recent years, medievalism.
        • MacPherson is a collaborative, cultural historian of modern Britain, migration, and
            Empire.
        • Ritchie is a social and cultural historian of the eighteenth and early-nineteenth century
            Scottish Highlands and its diaspora.
        • Robertson is a historical geographer whose research explores the landscape history of
            the Highlands and Islands in the twentieth century, social protest and critical heritage
            studies.
        • Woodcock researches and publishes on early modern European history and visual
            culture, especially on political, religious, and cultural interchange between France and
            Italy.
        • Worthington works on Scotland’s early modern ties with central Europe, and on
            seventeenth-century northern Scotland, whilst driving the emergence of coastal history
            as a distinct field.
        • Zickermann researches and publishes on the Thirty Years War (1618-1648) and on
            early modern maritime history.

Research strategy
Our key, initial aims following REF 2014, are shown in italics in the bullet points below, while our
responses to these objectives, in the years between 2015 and 2020, are provided in the short
narrative that follows:


                                                                                               Page 1
•   To add to our expertise and our developing unique approach to community-focused history,
    and to our REF 2021 preparations, by appointing a Reader and a Research Officer. The
    appointment of Robertson in 2015 was intended to reposition ourselves at the forefront of
    modern Highlands and Islands history and critical heritage studies, and give a sharper,
    leadership focus for our research in the current REF period. It coincided with the beginning
    of our efforts to restrengthen our connections with Hunter and Harper (see section 2) to
    support our impact agenda. Simultaneously, we also took steps to promote our
    Administrative Officer to Curriculum and Research Officer, with an expanded research
    assistance remit, and recruited an Administrative Assistant. This financially supported return
    to modern Highland historical research and publication gave us confidence to think
    internationally again, surpassing our 2014 aims by recruiting Bowman (who left in 2019) on
    a fractional contract, and then two new, full-time lecturers, Dean and Woodcock, in 2016
    and 2018, respectively. The latter are both early modernists, who research on themes that
    also take us well beyond our region and who are inspiring new approaches and thinking.

•   To support monograph preparation among as many research staff as possible. Sabbaticals
    assisted our ‘Outputs’ submission for REF 2021 and have also helped ensure that six of our
    staff are currently working on monographs to be published in the years after 2020.
    Additionally, we complement the allocation of time provided by sabbaticals with ongoing
    support and mentoring for researchers over the longer term (see section 2).

•   To better organise our research activity via several interconnecting research ‘alliances’. The
    objective of this was to highlight areas of specialism and facilitate greater collaboration
    within the team around these. The seven ‘alliances’ initially created, encouraged, promoted
    and interlinked the work of all our research-active staff (see table 1).

•   To broaden the base of experienced PhD supervisors and increase research student
    numbers further. We established an enhanced system of mentoring, which means that
    virtually all research-contracted team members are now supervising PhD students. This led
    to a significant increase in research student numbers and funded studentships. Our visiting
    professors and senior researchers were also targeted to play a more consistent and full part
    in this element of our research community (see Future planning below and section 2).

•   To increase staff participation in funding bids and expand the range and scope of these.
    Participation increased significantly, with over half of Category A staff having submitted bids
    since 2015 and achieving great success in funded studentships (see section 2). We
    acknowledge the need to increase award rates on research grants, more broadly, and are
    now taking further positive action to do so (see Future planning below and section 4).

•   To increase participation in university research structures at all levels. Participation has
    increased notably over the census period even to the level of more recently recruited staff.
    For instance, during her first full academic year Woodcock was appointed to the steering
    committee of the university-wide ‘Society, Identity, Landscape and Knowledge Research
    Cluster’ (SILK). This appointment interacted positively with her presentation at a
    transdisciplinary conference at the university during the same year.

•   To enhance and grow, in a spatial and online sense, our research environment. We
    achieved this by moving to an entirely new, much-improved suite of offices in Dornoch, and
    adding a dedicated research space, also by enhancing our research student support and
    community, and increasing our provision of physical and digital library resources (see
    sections 2 and 3).

•   To deepen activity involving collaboration with the public, through hosting bigger and more
    ambitious public events, and inspiring community-led, co-produced research across the
    Highlands and Islands and beyond. The collaborative, co-produced research embedded in
    our PGR studentships has been key here (see section 2). As of 2014, Public History was
    already a major international growth area in our discipline, with its own dedicated journals,

                                                                                           Page 2
       national councils (USA) and coordinating bodies, but with a thinner reach in Scotland. We
       saw potential from that year (and since) for the CfH to come to the fore, in Scottish terms, in
       the form of community-facing historical collaboration, with a distinctive focus not just on
       modern themes, but on earlier periods too.




As an example, MacPherson, Ritchie, Worthington and Zickermann have grown the Centre’s
expertise in the history of Irish, Scottish and British diasporas since 2014. MacPherson’s
monograph on Women and the Orange Order indicates the strength of this research, which led, in
2015, to invitations to speak on the theme at the Irish Ambassador’s residence in Ottawa and to
the Permanent Missions of Armenia and Cyprus at the United Nations in New York. Another key
vehicle for such impact is the development of ‘The Hub for the Study of British Identities’ (HSBI), a
digital research network developed by MacPherson. This online, interdisciplinary forum for
academics around the world has drawn contributions from, for instance, the Universities of
Salzburg, Bonn, Birmingham, Hawai’i and Saskatchewan. HSBI also produces the open access,
free, and peer-reviewed Journal of British Identities, which helps cement its academic/community
linkage. The journal embraces contributions from partners in the heritage sector at a time of
growing interest in, and reflection on, British imperial pasts, including slavery and its legacies. This
is an area in which MacPherson’s and Worthington’s collaborative plans have grown. MacPherson
now runs ‘The Empire at Home’ blog and published a Northern Scotland article in 2020 which
linked black radicalism to Highland thought, while Worthington’s 2019 article identifying the first
Highland slave-owner network in the Atlantic for the journal Dutch Crossing quickly became the
most widely-read in the journal’s history.
Further, the strongly spatialised focus of CfH activities ensures that interdisciplinarity frames much
of our research. Worthington and Zickermann have received international acclaim for their work in
maritime and coastal research and in 2016 this led to the first ever international conference in the
emergent field of Coastal History. ‘Firths and Fjords’ attracted over 100 delegates including from
the USA, Canada, Finland. It featured widely in newspapers and on television (over 900 tweets in

                                                                                                 Page 3
the week from 30 March 2016) and inspired the first-ever full-length volume on coastal history: The
New Coastal History: Cultural and Environmental Perspectives from Scotland and Beyond
(Worthington, 2017). A further outcome was the unique online, distance learning MLitt programme,
‘Coastal and Maritime Societies and Cultures’. As of 2020, amid the COVID-19 crisis, Worthington
has launched a new online Coastal History forum that is bringing together 150-plus members from
across five continents to regular meetings, roundtables and workshops focused on the past as well
as on contemporary issues, such as climate-change induced sea-level rise. In autumn 2020, the
forum generated its first piece of funded research.
Having a committed leader as Head of Centre (who is also a key budget holder within the
university, a Professor since 2020, and a member of Academic Council) brings stability and vision
to long term planning and investment. For instance, upon appointment Dean was supported to
complete her monograph on rituals and ceremonies around death and Royal Succession in
Scotland c.1214 – c.1513, as well as an associated report commissioned by Historic Environment
Scotland. Several public facing outcomes emerged from this, including new interpretation work at
two of Scotland’s historic royal palaces (see section 4).
The CfH’s impact strategy was initially predicated on three significant themes (see table 1 above)
with ‘digital interfaces for the public’ ultimately being given less priority. This strategy was
energised both through a long-term commitment to the development of a particular vision for
outreach and the deployment of key resources, such as UHI’s sabbatical scheme. For example, in
2016/17 Ritchie used her sabbatical to develop several articles for publication, including two on
livestock rearing, and two on pregnancy and gender in nineteenth-century Scotland and its
diaspora. These successes enabled her to forge deeper links with Community Land Scotland (the
umbrella group for the buyout movement in Scotland that is radically changing landed estate
ownership patterns) which resulted in contributions to their policy on rewilding; a funded research
training project for a community owner; and contributions to exhibitions at the Scottish National
Gallery and the National Museum of Scotland.
Guided by the UHI-wide infrastructure, CfH policy on Open Research Data is reviewed on a regular
basis. All CfH researchers have completed professional development around embedding the ten
shaping principles of the university’s data management policy and make use of the university-wide
specialist support and guidance provided for open access publishing and the provision for ‘Gold’
open access where necessary. See Institutional context and mission in the Institutional
Environmental Statement (IES).
Open access enhancements include the creation in 2018 of a dedicated post for the administration,
dissemination, and promotion of CfH research. This has significantly widened access to our
research. Apart from the UHI open access environment (PURE), all staff are encouraged not only
to have a research web profile, but to actively publicise their research via media outlets. CfH also
helps support the fully peer reviewed journal Northern Scotland and has, for several years, had an
agreement with the publishers to make articles freely available. This approach informs CfH’s
overall impact strategy and the public historical and land-based research themes which are the
foundation upon which the Centre’s impact case studies for REF 2021 are built. It also helps
maintain both the Centre’s shaping role in the university’s mission to be fully embedded in the
Highlands and Islands community, and its mentoring role to broader, ever-developing academic
networks.


Future planning
Our objectives for the next five years are:
   • To double our output of monographs from this REF period by supporting the completion
       and publication of up to six single-authored books by CfH staff on Highlands and Islands,
       national, transnational, and international themes.
   • To further increase research student numbers.
   • To increase our number and quality of applications for major research grants and
       studentships from public and private bodies to a point where we ensure 70% of Category A
       researching staff submit such grants (increasing from 50%, as was the case in this REF
       period).

                                                                                            Page 4
   •   To sharpen a Public History focus that engages with the work of most CfH staff in this area
       and adds an explicitly interdisciplinary perspective to the Centre’s research culture, with the
       aim of changing lives and transforming communities beyond the academy.
   •   To open more defined and supported routes for staff progression (see section 2) by working
       with the support of the university’s Athena SWAN and SFC Gender Action Plans (see
       People section in the IES) to ensure, for instance, continuing effective support to staff
       returning from maternity leave.
   •   To make the most of both our Dornoch base and our distributed nature to sustain our
       development of a supported, vibrant online and face-to-face community. The online
       element has, of course, been emphasised by the current pandemic, a situation that we are
       addressing, in line with the university’s mission to its communities, by ensuring the inclusive
       nature of our electronic resources and supervisory structures. This has allowed us to recruit
       a new, distance learning PhD student as of late 2020, with further success with this
       initiative predicated on greater enhancement of, and investment in, physical and digital
       resources (see section 2).


 2. People

Following the strategic investment at department and university level noted already, the CfH
Category A staff headcount has grown from five in 2014 to ten in 2020. These appointments have
directly aligned with and supported the staffing aspects of our research strategy:

   •   A Reader to lead on the growth and strengthening of our research culture and environment.
   •   Two new Lecturers working on themes that take us well beyond our region and established
       chronological focus.
   •   A new post of Curriculum and Research Officer to support our research strategy.
   •   Two Senior Researchers to mentor and strengthen our research community and to
       enhance our public-facing activities.

The ‘people strategy’ was further enabled through a greater focus on and support for research and
writing time; enhanced opportunities for staff research development; new and improved office
accommodation; and the development of a more cohesive and regular schedule of research
seminars and workshops. The consequent step-change in research environment is evidenced by a
doubling in numbers of research monographs as outputs (when compared to the previous census
period), expanded community engagement and postgraduate research, and a significantly
enhanced social media profile. Worthington has been awarded a personal chair and Ritchie,
MacPherson and MacInnes have been promoted to Senior Lectureship roles. Two monographs
and five edited collections have emerged from this senior group in the current census period,
alongside significant impact and public-facing activities.

These successes have been extended by the appointment of two Senior Researchers who are
both excellent communicators and place knowledge exchange at the heart of everything they do.
Professor Marjory Harper and Professor James Hunter have had longstanding research
connections with CfH and have consistently produced world leading research that has made
significant contributions to wider society. Harper’s work has won several awards, including The
Guardian University Award for Research Impact (2019) while Hunter’s research on Highland land
issues has had a profound influence on Scottish Government policy and legislation and has led to
numerous contributions to media outlets internationally, such as National Geographic and for the
French-German TV channel Arte. Most recently Hunter was commissioned to write an article on
the Highland famine for the ‘Famine’ area of the Irish public service broadcaster’s website. RTÉ
reaches 95% of the Irish population.
Our ‘people strategy’ has therefore balanced late and early-career recruitment to secure several
medium and long-term objectives, including our intention (see below) to address the need for
diversity in recruitment. All Category A staff are allocated time for research and undergo yearly


                                                                                              Page 5
appraisals of research activity. Interacting with this strategy are staff development policies at
departmental, faculty and university level. As demonstrated in the People section of the IES, UHI
staff development aligns with the ‘Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers’
allowing, for instance, funded training opportunities in a university-wide mentoring scheme
‘Leadership Development for Principal Investigators’, and a research sabbatical scheme from
which the Centre has benefitted significantly.
On sabbaticals, funding is open to staff at all levels and on every contract type. We allocate it to
support the completion of major pieces of research, to facilitate individual impact strategies and to
enable personal research development. Through this:
   •   MacPherson completed his project on Irish diasporic identities and developed impact
       strategies (2014/15).
   •   Worthington undertook research to complete an article on the coastal history theme and
       organised the Firths and Fjords conference (2015/16).
   •   Ritchie completed a number of articles, began work on her monograph and wrote an essay
       commissioned by Community Land Scotland (2016/17).
   •   MacInnes developed new research strands following the publication of his monograph and
       Worthington completed an article and undertook a major series of knowledge exchange
       activities around the theme of the Scottish Highlands’ first slave-owning network (2017/18).
   •   Zickermann was supported as part of her phased return to work following maternity leave
       and Dean worked on her monograph and associated knowledge exchange activities
       (2018/19).
   •   Woodcock worked on her monograph as part of her planned phased return to work
       following maternity leave (2020/21).
CfH sabbatical policy emerged in part out of the close collegiate and professional atmosphere
developed over the census period, which has given rise to supportive mentoring of junior staff by
more senior figures. This environment has enabled MacInnes to develop new lines of research
leading to him being invited to give the keynote at an international conference, whilst Ritchie’s
confidence and achievements grew to the extent that she was promoted to Senior Lecturer.
Indeed, the CfH has been a pioneer across the university for the use of the Senior Lecturer grade
as recognition of staff excellence in research.
On internal funding for research, CfH staff have also been allocated individual research budgets at
faculty level which are used to support publications and acquire specialist research materials.
Impact activities are funded separately. In addition, all staff have access to the UHI conference
fund and assistance for research funding applications from the central Research Office Grants and
Contracts team.
This level of support has remained consistent in the face of a considerable, planned, and strategic
expansion in Category A staff numbers and is thus, in and of itself, evidence of the university’s
commitment to support the UoA’s research culture and plans. As detailed in the Institutional
context and mission section of the IES, good practice is further embedded through the
University-wide ‘Knowledge Exchange sector groups’. Supported by funding from the Scottish
Funding Council Universities Innovation Fund, these coordinate information and activities from
across UHI and increase the engagement of academics with businesses and other clients through
training and developmental courses, such as ‘the Enterprising Researcher’. We take a full role in
the Tourism Group and are systematically made aware of all relevant national KE initiatives, such
as the Innovation Scotland, Interface, and relevant SFC innovation centres. The group serves as a
forum whereby exchange between academia and business is facilitated. In 2020, for instance,
Robertson and Harper were awarded Interface funding to work with the Steering Group driving
forward the development of a new, multi-million-pound heritage centre focusing on the Iolaire
disaster (see Section 4).
A final indicator of the growing maturity and standing of the Centre’s research environment has
been the targeted appointment of scholars of international standing as Visiting Professors, all of
whom emerged from existing research collaborations. This has been complemented by the
extended visits of the late Professor Eric Richards (Flinders), on a Carnegie Centenary Professor


                                                                                               Page 6
award, Associate Professor Tod Jones (Curtin), and Dr Julie Brown (Oregon) as a Fulbright
Programme Specialist.
Research Students
Since REF 2014 the Centre has:
    • Become a full member of the Scottish Graduate School for the Arts and Humanities
       Doctoral Training Partnership, bringing access to fully funded UKRI studentships and
       training opportunities of which our students make regular use.
    • Increased PGR enrolments from four at the start of the census period to fourteen in 2020.
    • Achieved £466,347 worth of PGR funding, including: one AHRC CDP (with Historic
       Environment Scotland); one AHRC CDA (in conjunction with the Highland Folk Museum);
       and four European Social Fund awards (with various non-HEI partners).
    • Become the recipient of the first Carnegie-Caledonian Scholarship awarded to the
       university.
Postgraduate research has been central to the genesis of our research funding strategy (see
section 3) and the vehicle for a new form of collaborative supervision and co-creative research.
The origins of this latter development can be traced to the pioneering Royal Dornoch studentship,
but the main catalyst was the appointment of MacPherson in 2011 and his consequent turn to
working closely and collaboratively with local heritage bodies. MacPherson took this strong base
and, in partnership with policy makers and cultural managers, both fashioned a co-supervised
studentship model and laid the foundations for one of our impact case studies. One example of this
model in action is our fully funded North Coast 500 studentship, which is a partnership with a
regionally transformative organisation that has significant international reach (certified 2.3 billion in
2017/18).
As detailed in the People section of the IES, recruitment of doctoral research students is
undertaken in close partnership with the university’s Graduate School. Each student is assigned a
full academic team, plus, in many instances, a senior representative of the co-producing
organisation. PhD students at the CfH have also been able to draw upon expert external and
international supervision (involving staff from Federation University, Australia, University of Stirling,
Manchester Metropolitan University). Research students have access to facilities in the CfH suite
of rooms, including a dedicated study space, computers, and a departmental library.
In addition, we hold an annual PhD day which brings together the research students, their
supervisors, and all staff members. PhD students have taken the opportunity to participate in the
Centre’s extensive programme of public engagement and regular international conferences.
Following the turning of his thesis into a monograph, one of our students had his monograph short-
listed for the Saltire Society’s Research Book of the Year in 2016; whilst another co-founded the
Rural Modernism research network, whose first conference, held in 2019, was funded by the
British Academy. CfH postgraduate students are therefore fully engaged with both wider scholarly
and external communities and are closely supported by the CfH research culture and UHI’s
Graduate School and Research Office. All students participate in an intensive induction
programme and an annual postgraduate conference and receive support for mental health and
wellbeing.

Equality and diversity
CfH is proactive in ensuring equality and diversity wherever practical in terms of, for example,
mental and physical health, ethnicity, and gender. We support UHI’s recognition, captured in the
People section of the IES, that low ethnic diversity in rural areas can obscure appreciation of the
impact of racism in society, through taking membership on the university committee that is
developing work on the Advance HE’s Race Equality Charter. More broadly, the CfH’s guiding
principle is full equity on all shortlisting and interview panels, underpinned by formal unconscious
bias training delivered by Advance HE. CfH also assisted in the design and adoption of both the
university-wide single EDI policy and the work that went into the award of Bronze Athena Swan in
2017.



                                                                                                  Page 7
Building on these achievements, the Centre is now supporting a colleague onto UHI’s Aurora
programme, the Advance HE’s leadership development programme for those identifying as
women. These demonstrate our fundamental objective of ensuring greater gender equality and
diversity. Of eligible staff, 49% (3.9 of 7.9 FTE) identify as women. This is an improvement on REF
2014 (when 42% of eligible/submitting staff identified as women) and we remain committed to
further improving our diversity. The Centre has reflected on our experiences in this area during this
REF period and targeted it in our post-census research strategy. Three full periods of maternity
leave in this REF period allowed the Centre to proactively recognise the impact of such a period of
leave and the arrival of a new child into a family on an individual’s research work. When a staff
member returned to work it was on terms worked through with the individual and to their research
plans. In two instances this took the form of sabbaticals to enable work on planned monographs. In
taking charge of return-to-work practices in this way, the Centre has both influenced and will build
on the university-wide principles captured in its Code of Practice and Gender Action Plan. We will
continue to mainstream themes and equality outcomes including gender imbalances (see Future
planning in section 1).
This is reflected in the following specific actions:
    • Following standard regular review of job descriptions and recognising and ensuring the
        ongoing prioritising and importance of one strand of CfH public history research, Dr
        Elizabeth Ritchie was promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2019 consequent upon her innovation
        and leadership in these and other areas since joining CfH in 2009.
    • The appointment of Professor Marjory Harper as Senior Researcher in 2019 was envisaged
        in part to allow her to mentor and act as a role model for other female staff. Harper has
        offered her expertise and advice in this area via research grant and research-teaching
        linkage workshops for both staff and postgraduates.

Through the Centre’s behaviours, culture, policies, and procedures, we ensure equality of
opportunity for all staff. This principle is central to our approach to practicing history and is
sustained through regular team meetings, an ‘equality audit’, and by strict adherence to the
university’s ‘Equality, Diversity and Inclusiveness’ policy. As detailed in the People section of the
IES, the university’s REF 2021 Code of Practice states that UHI will provide REF Managers with
general equality and diversity and unconscious bias training. CfH UoA leads and members of the
output selection panel have all received this training.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income
As detailed in the previous section, CfH research strategy across the census period has sought to
secure UKRI and other funded sources primarily to support PhD studentships. The success of this
objective can be demonstrated both qualitatively and quantitatively. Our PGR students have had a
profound influence on CfH broader research culture and have directly shaped our impact strategy
for REF 2021. This success is evidenced most obviously through the 250% rise in student
enrolments between 2014 and 2020 noted above, but also in the rise in our overall income. From
sources recorded in Higher Education Statistics Agency returns our income rose from £37,350 in
2013/14 to £146,283 in 2019/20. As demonstrated in Table 2 below, this near 300% increase is a
considerable achievement for a unit the size of CfH.




                                                                                                Page 8
Funding successes represent a key component of our research strategy and bring important
benefits for CfH. As of the end of 2020, we have a cohort of postgraduate researchers, with a
supervisory base that has broadened to include early career colleagues, and a physical space that
has been refurbished to offer enhanced dedicated and specialist PGR provision. Our PGRs use
this income stream to attend and present at international conferences and to set up and run
conferences and public engagement events of their own. We have also bought dedicated research
equipment and enhanced our specialist library in Dornoch with the aim of developing resources for
future research. Finally, the CfH co-supervisory model has benefitted both staff and students by,
for example, creating a unique level of access to Inverness Library’s collection of 10,000 rare
books.
These PGR successes are in line with our overall research strategy to enhance income generation
(as detailed in section 1) driven largely through a continued prioritising of UK Research and
Innovation grants. In 2020 alone, CfH staff submitted bids for an AHRC Standard Grant, for a
British Academy/Wolfson Fellowship, and for a Leverhulme Research Grant. With university
support, we aim to maintain this level of activity across the next census period and will increase the
number of research bids of this type by staff.
Examples of what can be achieved through this approach include the Carnegie Trust Centenary
Professorship, awarded to the late Professor Eric Richards of Flinders University in 2014, and the
AHRC funded (2016/18) project ‘Visualising the Iolaire’ (see section 4).
   •   Professor Richards’ three months at CfH included public and academic seminars and one
       of two keynotes at the CfH’s ‘Strathnaver Conference’. The conference brought significant
       business to the north coast, especially Bettyhill and Tongue, through accommodation,
       catering and attendees. In the remainder of his time in the Highlands, Professor Richards
       conducted further archival research and mentored CfH staff and research students.
   •   ‘Visualising the Iolaire’ led to new funding for a research consultancy project with West
       Harris Trust and a Royal Society of Edinburgh workshop grant with Abertay and Digital
       Humanities at Glasgow University (2019-21).
Infrastructure
As detailed in the Institutional context and mission section of the IES, the creation of four
interdisciplinary research clusters during this census period, has been ‘key to implementing the
strategic plan for research, knowledge exchange and impact’. These clusters are the mechanism
through which research leadership is driven, with the CfH reaching across both the Humanities
(HARC) and Social Sciences (SILK) clusters. The Centre plays a leadership role on both clusters:
Worthington was the first co-convenor of HARC and Robertson is on the current steering
committee, and Woodcock performs an equivalent role for SILK. The research clusters are closely

                                                                                              Page 9
aligned with the university’s research and knowledge exchange committees which CfH staff also
serve on, and which draw research and impact together at institutional level and pan regionally.
These knowledge exchange sector groups are responsible for delivering activity against University
Innovation Fund monies from the Scottish Funding Council. This activity is disseminated back to
the individual UoAs through the university’s annual research forum, which serves to sense-check
recent developments in UK-wide policy and initiatives.

The CfH shows a similarly enhanced professionalism in terms of support for research and impact.
Over the current census period we identified a need for a Curriculum and Research Officer and
filled the role internally as part of our career progression policy. This strategic expansion included a
50% increase in support staff and the appointment of an Administrative Assistant to look after our
social media channels. The use of social media, for which CfH was something of a pioneer
amongst Scottish History UoAs, is now a major tool for engagement with the public. As of February
2021, CfH has 3,000 Twitter and 1,900 Facebook followers, with an average monthly reach
throughout 2019/20 of 36,000 and 17,000 for each channel.

Facilities
Research income makes a significant contribution to the CfH’s position as a self-sustaining
financial centre. This autonomy has, for instance, enabled the systematic development of CfH
facilities over the current census period. With the financial support of the university, we increased
provision at our Dornoch base to meet staff expansion by moving into a dedicated suite of six
rooms in 2017/18. These provide the physical environment to enable a vibrant research culture
that is further underpinned by a dedicated room for critical interaction, seminars and workshops.
Reflecting the UHI model for dispersed learning, our postgraduate provision enables students to be
co-located across the partnership but always with dedicated space in Dornoch. This space is
further utilised for the annual postgraduate research days and the reading groups run by the
postgraduate cohort. The physical space occupied by CfH, therefore, is strongly configured to
support its research culture at all levels, albeit this has moved temporarily online during the
pandemic.
Over the current census period, CfH’s softer research infrastructure has been similarly realigned
and developed. There is a library of research texts available to staff and postgraduates, including
the Pennie Collection, which has been used in several public engagement and knowledge transfer
projects. Of great significance has been the acquisition of the digitised archive of the transcripts of
evidence given to the Napier Commission of 1883, which was established to ‘enquire into the
conditions of the crofters and cottars in the Highlands and Islands of Scotland’. The five volumes of
evidence gathered by the Commission are one of the most important primary sources of ‘history
from below’. To be the sole guardian outside formal archival settings for this unique resource is a
privilege and a responsibility. Online availability does much to facilitate community-led research
and demystifies archive use, with the pages receiving at least 1,200 views per year since their first
upload. CfH research and funding bids are based upon the archive, with Robertson, for instance,
utilising Napier Commission testimonies extensively in his essay (2019) which explored the moral
code that underpinned natural resource utilisation in the Highland way of life.
Oral history, both as training for community projects and research, is a major theme for the CfH
and there has been significant strategic investment to support this. Since 2015, we have bought
video and digital cameras, and digital voice recorders (of archiving standard) for oral history
research projects to achieve impact and look beyond the current census period. The North Coast
500 studentship is an example of the way in which the Centre’s growing multi-disciplinary methods
and epistemologies are being applied and supported for both impact and scholarly research, in that
one strand of the community co-curation, that lies at the heart of this project, is being facilitated
using a disposable camera methodology.




 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


                                                                                               Page 10
Emerging from REF 2014 and integrating new interests with existing networks and relationships,
the Centre has focused strategically on key initiatives, audiences and collaborations. Our strategy
has been to prioritise those public history and critical heritage focused collaborations and networks
that can be developed according to the model of co-production (see section 2). This facilitates
cross-fertilisation of ideas and works well in a small team by ensuring a sustainable number of
initiatives are pursued to a level sufficient to develop meaningful impact.
Worthington’s research into Scottish ties with Poland and other parts of early modern Europe is an
example of the benefits deriving from writing community engagement and advocacy into a project
from inception. Grasping the contemporary resonances of his research, Worthington reached out
to communities, hitherto largely silent in a Scottish scholarly context, and rapidly built networks and
partnerships which have developed in several directions. One such is Worthington’s appointment
to the Scottish Parliament’s cross-party group on Poland. He also organised the workshop
‘Unheard Voices, Unseen Communities: Perspectives on Polish Ethnicity in Scotland’ which was
attended by Members of the Scottish Parliament and featured widely on BBC Radio Scotland, the
BBC news website and in the local press. Worthington was subsequently invited to present the
keynote at an international conference in Krosno, Poland, and curated an accompanying travelling
exhibition.
A further example of the benefits which flow from public-facing collaborative projects is the AHRC
funded (2016/18) project ‘Visualising the Iolaire’. This was a partnership between Robertson (as
Co-Investigator), Dr Iain Donald, from the School of Design and Informatics at Abertay University,
and community heritage groups on the Outer Hebrides. Initiated by the community partners, the
project developed to centre on the creation of a digital ‘deep map’ and memorialisation of the UK’s
worst twentieth-century peacetime maritime disaster (after the Titanic) which has had ‘plays’ from
across the globe.
The project became a catalyst for several new collaborative initiatives:
   • With the Imperial War Museum and Highland Archives, leading First World War study days
       in Inverness and on Lewis. The Inverness event attracted an audience of around 100
       people, with Robertson and community partners being interviewed for BBC Alba’s Gaelic
       TV news programme and led to Heritage Lottery funding for an event to recreate the FWW
       Armistice celebrations on Lewis.
   • Working with internationally renowned musicians and playwrights to incorporate elements
       of research findings into their play ‘An Treas Suaile’ (The Third Wave)’ which was
       performed to capacity audiences in Inverness, Stornoway and at the Celtic Connections
       festival in Glasgow.
   • An international conference to celebrate the centenary of the 1919 Land Settlement
       (Scotland) Act.
   • A research consultancy project based on the island of Harris.
At the heart of our developing public history focus is good communication with wider society.
Whether through more traditional means, such as an exhibition, or via more recent digital
technologies, this demands constant tracking between scholarly research and wider audiences and
communities. This is particularly the case for Dean’s interaction with Historic Environment Scotland
(HES). Supported through a sabbatical, Dean was able to work on her monograph on rituals and
ceremonies (see section 1) and an associated report commissioned by HES. This resulted in her
making a significant contribution to the new (2018) multimedia guide at Holyrood Palace, with the
HES report underpinning new display panels at Edinburgh Castle. Dean has also been supported
in her research and impact activities on the ‘Perth Charterhouse Project’ in collaboration with
Professor Richard Oram (University of Stirling) and local partners including Culture Perth and
Kinross (CPK) and Perth and Kinross Heritage Trust (PKHT). She received a Geoffrey Barrow
Award to fund archival research on this project and has undertaken a range of outreach activities,
including running collaborative workshops with CPK, supporting a funded intern at the archive
(2019), and a public event showcasing fifteenth-century Scottish culture and modern creative
responses to the project’s themes (February 2020). Dean is currently advising PKHT on a new
public information panel about the Charterhouse and co-organising the annual Royal Studies

                                                                                              Page 11
Network conference, due to take place in Perth in 2021. This activity forms the basis of one of the
Centre’s projected impact strands for the next census period.
This strategy is already bringing positive benefits to both the Centre and its wider community.
Ritchie’s contracted work with the community owners of the Isle of Ulva is thus an element of both
a current impact case study and part of our future planning. Through her research activities and
links with Community Land Scotland, she has been appointed to act as a consultant and member
of the team directing a National Lottery funded project which focuses on the history of the island,
its people, and their impact on Scotland and the world. Equally future facing is MacPherson’s
increasing involvement in knowledge exchange activities with the Clan Macpherson Museum in
Newtonmore. As a member of the museum’s board, MacPherson has been a key contributor to a
successful Museums Galleries Scotland funding bid, securing £88,000 in December 2020 for the
refurbishment of the museum. MacPherson is taking a leading role in redesigning the museum’s
exhibition and rewriting interpretation, ensuring that it incorporates elements of his latest research
on James Macpherson (1736-1796), Ossian and history writing, thereby significantly shaping
public understanding of Clan Macpherson’s history.
Connection and collaborations between CfH researchers and High Life Highland (HLH), the
organisation responsible for cultural and leisure activities in the region is a central element of our
contribution to wider society. This partnership began in community-based activities and then co-
produced research with one of HLH’s flagship facilities, the Highland Folk Museum. It was followed
by research into the knowledge exchange potential of the Rare Books collection in Inverness
library, which resulted in an upgraded evaluation of the collection by the National Library of
Scotland. From this co-operative base the Centre has taken a key advising role in the cultural and
heritage-led regeneration aspects of the Inverness and Highland City Regional Deal (worth £315
million). High Life Highland has now adopted a research-led cultural approach to the stories it tells.
These activities will continue well into the new census period and therefore form a key element of
both our current and future impact case studies.
From these positions of strength, the Centre has been able to build influential international
connections. Engaging with international research networks through the Critical Heritage Studies
organisation, Robertson has been able to build strong and active connections with Federation and
Curtin Universities in Australia. These include three funded Fellowships and his appointment as
Adjunct Associate Professor in the School of Design and Built Environment at Curtin. These
linkages have resulted in three edited collections and a new international network, ‘New
Geographies of Heritage’, which includes colleagues from Denmark and Singapore, and has won
funding for a knowledge exchange workshop in the Highland region.
In a different strand and from a slightly different perspective, Worthington’s pioneering of the new
coastal history led to funding from the Fulbright Specialist Programme for the Centre to host Dr
Julie Brown, a scholar of coastal and maritime literature from Clatsop Community College in
Oregon, USA. Whilst at the CfH, Dr Brown spoke to and held poetry workshops with the local
fishing community and local schools and was interviewed for BBC Radio Scotland's ‘Out of Doors’
programme. Brown has spoken of the influence of her UHI visit at the annual Fisher Poets
Gathering in Oregon, an event which has attracted attention from the New York Times,
Smithsonian Magazine, the Wall Street Journal, the BBC and other media.
Such engagements with wider society have been developed even further by MacInnes through his
blogging and other public-facing activities around the theme of the representation of the medieval
in contemporary popular culture. The fandoms of TV shows like Game of Thrones, as well as
readers of the comics in question, provide a ready-made popular audience for research that
considers the works in which they have a deep interest. Promoted and developed further through
social media, this has led to contributions to Times Radio, to commissioned contributions to BBC
History Extra podcasts and on depictions of the Middle Ages in graphic novels for Comics Forum,
an online meeting point for scholars, artists and fans.




Contribution to the discipline and peer recognition

                                                                                              Page 12
The Centre for History is at the forefront of Highlands and Islands history. It is the only dedicated
History department in the region, and the only History department with a leading focus on
Highlands and Islands history in a global context. From this core position, several associated
strengths and indicators of esteem have emerged. One such is our involvement throughout the
current census period in the fully peer-reviewed journal Northern Scotland. Harper, Worthington
and MacPherson have all served as editors, with seven CfH staff editorial board members as of
2020.
Northern Scotland links UHI directly with the Universities of Aberdeen and Dundee as well as with
the much broader body of universities who have representation on its editorial board. The Journal
for British Identities, for which MacPherson is founding editor, is similarly based upon a strong
cross-disciplinary ethos and is linked to universities globally. Colleagues sit on the editorial boards
of the Scottish Historical Review (MacInnes; Harper), the Economic and Social History Society of
Scotland (Zickermann) and Northern Studies, the journal of the Scottish Society for Northern
Studies (Zickermann). Worthington is also a History panel member of the Scottish Graduate
School for the Arts and Humanities.
Across the current census period the Centre has moved towards a more interdisciplinary approach
and wider subject engagement for our research, based on the view that this more closely
resembles how our audiences see the world. This is instanced through Robertson acting as
Membership Secretary for the Historical Geography Research Group of the Royal Geographical
Society, his keynote to the Permanent European Conference for the Study of the Rural Landscape
and by his role as peer reviewer for the International Journal of Heritage Studies, and Journal of
Historical Geography. Furthermore, through Chairing of the Centre for Scotland’s Land Futures,
Robertson connected CfH with the School of Humanities at Dundee and the Stirling Law School,
the lead disciplines at the other participating universities.
Following a similar trajectory, albeit from an early career point of departure, Zickermann is now co-
editor of the Scotland, Scandinavian and Northern European Database and Northern Studies, an
interdisciplinary journal that explores the inter-relationships between Scandinavian and Scottish
cultures. In 2017, Zickermann gave the invited keynote ‘English and Scottish migrants in Bremen
during the Seventeenth Century’ at an international conference in Bremen (Die ‘andere
Reformation’ im Nordwesten des Alten Reichs: Bremen und Westeuropa). She is also a full
participant in the 'European Cultures of Military Warfare 1500-1800' research network and in 2020
set up the Scottish Women and Warfare group with the Professor of Early Modern History at the
University of St Andrews.
In recent years, the study of the history of warfare within CfH has gained wide peer recognition.
Woodcock, for instance, is a committee member of the Society for the History of War, whilst
MacInnes’s interest in contemporary popular representations of medieval military history led to him
being invited to give the plenary talk at the conference: IN THE MIDDLE: Recreating the Middle
Ages in popular culture / EN EL MEDIO: Recreando la Edad Media en la cultura popular, Instituto
de Estudos Medievais in Lisbon, Portugal. Media organisations now regularly turn to MacInnes as
an authority on the Wars of Independence of the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries. He has been
commissioned to produce an interactive podcast for BBC History magazine, written a series of
articles for the popular history magazine History Scotland on the Scottish Wars of Independence,
and was historical consultant and script editor on an episode of BBC Radio 4’s ‘Homeschool
History’.
Activities such as these have combined with our unique approach to community-focused history
(see section 1) to establish significant public and media profiles. Harper, for instance, acted as
both programme consultant and interviewee on BBC Scotland’s ‘The Promised Land’ which
broadcast in 2020. That does not mean, however, that CfH staff ignore more traditional academic
outlets, with the weight of our wider contribution to the discipline inevitably matching key research
foci. Colleagues have acted as referees for Scottish Historical Review, Rural History, The English
Historical Review and French History, with Harper peer-reviewing for University of Toronto Press
and Manchester University Press. In this REF period, our staff have reviewed grant applications for
all the major humanities-focused funding bodies, alongside major Scottish funders such as the
Scottish Graduate School for the Arts and Humanities, the Carnegie Trust and The Royal Society
of Edinburgh.

                                                                                               Page 13
For a small and growing department these are further clear indications of our standing in the
discipline.




                                                                                           Page 14
