Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: City, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: C18 Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context

 City Law School (CLS) is the smallest of the five schools within City, University of London,
 comprising just 30.65 FTE research-active members of staff on the census date. Established in
 1852, the CLS has been transformed over the last decade into a research-intensive department
 through a combination of outstanding new appointments, inspiring leadership and focused
 research support. Our trajectory is one of remarkable growth: in REF 2014 58% of our staff (20.5
 FTE) submitted outputs graded 3*or 4*, contrasted with 35% (14 FTE) at this level in RAE 2008.
 In this assessment period we are submitting 6971 outputs from 30.65 FTEs – a 50% increase in
 research-active staff over the previous period.

 Further strategic investment in staff and physical premises, including our £63m, state-of-the-art
 building, were taken as part of our ‘One School’ initiative to unite the academic and professional
 components of the school with a view to enhancing our research-led teaching and knowledge
 co-production with the profession. Coupled with a rigorous system of research planning, financial
 and administrative support, taking our research profile to a new level. In the coming decade, the
 CLS will continue to support the highest quality academic scholarship, enabling individuals to
 pursue their own research agenda as well as take part in collaborative projects, rigorously
 combining theory with the professional practice of law. Growth in student numbers over this REF
 period yielded an income stream which allowed us to appoint distinguished new scholars and
 maintain our core of exceptional senior research-active academics, with a dozen new
 appointments on the way in the next academic year alone including many new doctoral students.
 This strategy led to a dramatic 20-fold increase in our research income since the previous period
 and a 30-fold increase in PhD completions, establishing the CLS as internationally recognized
 centre of legal knowledge for driving law reform and shaping legal policy and practice.

 Structure

 Our research strengths are in the following four core areas:

 First, our expertise in European / International Law is embodied by four main research groups:
 the Institute for the Study of European Laws (ISEL), created in 2012 and now comprising
 AHMED, COSTA, DRAGHICI, FAHEY, GALE, HATZIS, KENDRICK, KOUTRAKOS, MANCINI,
 ODERMATT, STONES, TRUXAL, WATSON, WILSHER, and YONG; and the International Legal
 Affairs Group (ILAG), established in 2011 and comprising BARELLI, COLLINS, COSTA,
 DRAGHICI, FAHEY, MASRI, ODERMATT, and TRUXAL. The intensification of research activity
 in this field is further reflected in the establishment of the Jean Monnet Chair in European Law
 (KOUTRAKOS) in 2014 and in 2019, the Jean Monnet Chair in Law and Transatlantic Relations
 (FAHEY) both of whom have maintained expertise in this area following the retirement of
 DASHWOOD. The smaller research group Globallaw@City, convened by FAHEY and originally
 established in 2015, has furthered CLS’s strength in international and transnational law.

 Second, our reputation as a centre of excellence in Maritime Law consists of CHUAH, ROGERS,
 TABARI, and THOMSON, most of whom also teach on our new LLM in Maritime Law offered
 through City’s Greece and Dubai campuses. The CLS further houses the London Universities
 Maritime Law and Policy Research Group (LULPPG), convened by CHUAH and comprising
 academics from several other institutions, including Southampton and Westminster; this
 provides a forum for the exchange and promotion of ideas and information on maritime law and
 policy, encouraging collaboration in maritime law and policy research in London and elsewhere.



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our third strand of notable research strength is the broad and interdisciplinary field of Socio-
 Legal Studies, involving the work of BAARS, BOON, CARRAN, GERMAIN, HONKALA,
 KALPOUZOS, RENZ, SEYMOUR, YOUNG and STYCHIN. Work in this area includes the
 Critical Corporation Project (BAARS), supported by the ESRC, and resulting in
 The Corporation: A Critical, Multidisciplinary Handbook (CUP, 2017), in collaboration with City’s
 Business School in 2015. CLS scholars also work in the related sub-discipline of minority rights,
 as captured by the work of the Minorities and Rights Research Group, consisting of AHMED,
 BARELLI, HATZIS, HONKALA, MASRI, SEYMOUR, and WILSHER, which regularly hosts
 international doctoral and senior career visitors.

 Lastly, CLS has long-standing expertise in Professional Legal Practice. The Centre for the Study
 of Law and Professional Practice (CSLPP), consisting of BOON, BROWNE, CHOO, COLLINS,
 DUNCAN, JOTHAM, MCKEOWN, MCPEAK, SIME, SOANES and TEMKIN, brings together
 academics and practitioners in matters relating to evidence, justice, legal ethics, civil justice
 reform and alternative dispute resolution in line with our One School strategy, hosting the world-
 renowned annual Lord Upjohn Lecture, as well as other seminars and workshops regularly
 attracting more than 50 guests.

 The research clusters described above enable collaborative and interdisciplinary work, allowing
 our researchers to build their profiles through invited speakers and participants from other
 institutions while supporting individuals pursuing individual projects. For example, the ISEL both
 expanded the networks of our colleagues and led to the establishment of new individual
 research pathways with outputs such as monographs (e.g. YONG), culminating in formal
 partnerships (e.g. Keio University) and impact activities (e.g. evidence before parliamentary
 committees).


 Open Scholarship and Research Integrity

 The CLS takes open scholarship and research integrity seriously. In addition to placing our
 outputs on the City Research Online (CRO) depository outlined in our REF 5a) statement, our
 researchers also publish their work open-sourced on platforms such as the Social Science
 Research Network (SSRN). According to the SSRN Top 500 International Law Schools, CLS
 has over 39,000 downloaded papers giving it a ranking of 91 in the world (in the top 20 for UK
 Law Schools). All 31 of our staff with significant responsibility for research have registered with
 ORCiD facilitating the dissemination of our work to the public. Furthermore, a school Working
 Paper Series was launched in 2019 through which ongoing research papers prepared by
 members of staff are published open access on the CLS website. The CLS established an
 Ethics Director within the CLS Research Committee (currently ELVIN), helping to ensure that our
 research is carried out in accordance with the law and in light of current good practice,
 particularly the Framework for Good Practice in Research. Before commencement, all new
 research proposals involving human participants and/or personal data must undergo formal
 ethical peer review. The Ethics Director also sits on the university Senate Research Ethics
 Committee which develops and implements the research ethics policy at a City-wide level.


 Research and Impact Strategies (Reflection on REF 2014)

 Our strategic research and impact goals from the previous period were as follows:

 i. Sharpen focus on the dissemination of research and the achievement of impact
 We invested in the dissemination of our research through the doubling of our research budget
 (to £130k per year, allocated based on application), enabling our colleagues to participate in
 more national and international conferences and to engage in periods as academic visitors at
 leading international institutions, often in conjunction with a period of sabbatical. We also
 intensified our media outreach activities through the work of a Media Officer and broadened our
 engagement beyond academia through the efforts of our Business Development Officer and

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Impact Officers, enabling our work to bring benefits to a wider audience. The ‘One School’
 strategy of uniting the academic and professional programmes was designed to enhance the
 impact of our research activities by bringing a practice-oriented perspective to a variety of issues
 and leveraging the professional colleagues’ contacts with industry, government and the legal
 profession.

 This strategy delivered a step-change in the achievement of impact for the school, captured
 in our three Impact Case Studies: BONADIO & MCDONAGH on intellectual property policy in
 Latin American universities; DRAGHICI on the protection of journalists informing a UN
 convention; and KALPOUZOS collaborating with legal practitioners and investigative journalists
 on matters such as environmental justice. This strategy also led to the contribution of several
 members of staff as experts at parliamentary committees in the UK (COLLINS- International
 Trade, FAHEY- International Trade, KOUTRAKOS-Environment, LOVELAND-Devolution,
 STANTON-Devolution, YONG-Home Affairs) and internationally (BARELLI, Canadian
 Parliament). Our engagement with the legal profession also expanded during the period, with
 several practice-oriented events located at firms, e.g. COLLINS’s book launches at the London
 offices of Eversheds (2016) and Shearman & Sterling (2020). Our various impact activities are
 discussed further in Section 4.


 ii. Promote interdisciplinary research activities
 During the period, the CLS pursued a focused research strategy through which members of staff
 were actively encouraged by the Associate Dean for Research (currently CHOO), the CLS
 Research Committee and in meetings with their appraisers during the annual appraisal process
 to pursue intersections between their work and non-law disciplines across the university,
 including its new centres. For example, the Institute for Cyber Security was established at City in
 March 2019 to bring together the world class cyber security research and innovation carried out
 by experts across the university. FAHEY, ODERMATT and SELLERS contributed expertise to
 this centre in relation to issues such as data protection and cybercrime. The Gender and
 Sexualities Research Centre, based in City’s School of Arts and Social Sciences, analyses how
 gender and sexuality intersect with other social divisions and identities, fostering interdisciplinary
 dialogue and collaboration, and involves CLS researchers BAARS and HONKALA. GERMAIN is
 working with City’s new Centre for Healthcare Innovation Research set up in 2019 by City’s
 Schools of Business and Health Sciences to support innovation in healthcare. City’s Violence
 and Society Centre is an interdisciplinary research cluster across psychology, politics and law,
 attracting several lecturer appointments in 2020, including one in the Law School (CORSI).

 Additionally, training seminars were delivered throughout the assessment period with the
 objective of stimulating the incorporation of interdisciplinary perspectives into our researchers’
 existing projects. These strategies were followed up by appointments of academics who
 specialize in interdisciplinary work, including MALAGODI, who brought an ethnographic focus to
 comparative constitutional law, BENNETT who works on law and migration and several socio-
 legal scholars who draw upon perspectives such as gender and sexuality (HONKALA and
 RENZ).

 Examples of our interdisciplinary research activities during the period include the INBOTS
 project which is a 3-year European Commission funded research into the future of the robotic
 industry organized by BONADIO and MCDONAGH and involving collaborations with City
 academics from engineering, biotechnology and entrepreneurial design, FAHEY’s Horizon 2020
 EUTIP MSC-ITN project pooled researchers and practitioners from several sub-disciplines of law
 as well as economics, political science and business, and CARRAN’s monograph Gambling
 Regulation and Vulnerability (Elgar, 2018) which incorporates perspectives from psychology.


 iii. Increase research funding
 During this REF period, the CLS prioritized the increase in research funding among our
 academics by rigorously emphasizing this objective in the staff appraisal processes and via

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 meetings of the CLS Research Committee, led by the Associate Dean together providing
 strategic leadership and research oversight. We strengthened the level of support offered to
 members of staff in pursuit of this goal through the University’s Research and Enterprise Office
 and the School Research Support Officer who identifies grant opportunities and assists in the
 preparation and submission of grant proposals. Moreover, our Student Assistant Scheme
 facilitated 51 students assisting on staff-led research projects through 72 assignments since
 2015, better enabling them to secure external funding from a diverse range of sources.

 As will be discussed further in Section 3, these strategies proved remarkably effective: -
 research income received by the UoA during this REF period was £361,635 derived from the
 research councils, charities and other sources. This represents a phenomenal increase of over
 20-fold compared to REF 2014 (total £17,533).


 iv. Provide continued support for international collaborations
 Support for international collaborations were actively encouraged at the CLS through the
 provision and encouragement of sabbatical leave in conjunction with financial support, drawn
 from our expanded research budget of £130k per year. Success on this front was demonstrated,
 for example, in BARELLI’s work on indigenous rights involving travel to Canada and China and
 MALAGODI’s field work in Nepal.

 Our staff has been successful in using university funding to support international collaborations.
 For example, COLLINS received funding from the University’s Global Partnership Seed Fund for
 a partnership with Ryerson University in Canada relating to digital trade and legal assistance for
 start-up businesses. ODERMATT was awarded university Pump Priming funds from the
 university to support his research into international courts and STANTON for research into local
 government which led to an external grant application with the Nuffield Foundation.

 The international aspect of our research strategy has been closely linked to the CLS’s overall
 internationalization and partnership strategy. Ninety per cent of the total external research
 funding that CLS researchers have been awarded has supported projects involving international
 collaborations in some capacity, including researcher’s travel to carry out field work or
 networking with international partners. Examples include BONADIO and MCDONAGH’s
 research into intellectual property law in Latin America (funded by the Global Challenges
 Research Fund, GCRF), MALAGODI’s work on constitutional law in Nepal (also funded by the
 GCRF) and COLLINS’s investigation into the regulation of trade in legal services in the US and
 Canada (British Academy).

 The CLS has supported the contribution by our research staff and doctoral students to broad
 research consortia in Europe and beyond. For example, the H2020 MSC-ITN project (FAHEY)
 ‘EUTIP’ is a collaboration with 12 research institutions across four countries including
 partnerships with 22 other organisations including law firms, think-tanks, government and
 industry and 15 doctoral ECRs. The Trilattrade project (BONADIO, COLLINS, FAHEY,
 MCDONAGH and ROGERS) led to a collaboration between the CLS and scholars from Keio
 Law School and several other Japanese law schools. The CLS is one of 24 participants
 coordinated by the Spanish National Research Council (CSIC) with participants from 13
 countries.

 During the assessment period, 15 members of staff have held fellowships at prestigious
 international research institutions which were supported by sabbatical periods or financed from
 our research budget. These include: MALAGODI, Hong Kong University, 2019; KALPOUZOS,
 Harvard, 2019; BAARS, Sciences Po Global Law School, Paris 2019; MCDONAGH, Tokyo
 University, 2018; FAHEY as an Emile Noël Fellow at New York University (NYU) Law School,
 2017 and Visiting Fellow European University Institute, Florence Law Department, 2020;
 GERMAIN, University of Montreal, 2018; MASRI, University of Windsor, Canada, 2017;
 DRAGHICI, Harvard 2015; BONADIO, City University of New York, 2016 and Keio University,


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Tokyo, 2019; and COLLINS, the University of Oslo and the University of Heidelberg, 2015, UC
 Berkeley, 2017 and Gakushuin University, Tokyo, 2018.


 v. Develop further research centres and groups to nurture existing expertise
 School-based research clusters, such as ISEL, ILAG, LULPPG and the CSLPP are directly
 supported by the CLS research budget. All research groups are provided with up to £3000 per
 cluster per academic year to further research activities and outputs. Extra funding is available to
 support further activities of any of the groups, based on application.

 In addition to our research outputs over the period, the strength of our various research clusters
 is illustrated by the events which they held, helping to place the CLS at the centre of national
 and international debates between academics, legal practitioners and other stakeholders. For
 example, the annual international Insolvency Law Conference, organized by CHUAH took place
 at the CLS in 2018 and 2019, typically attracting more than 50 guests and speakers. The CLS
 Maritime Law Conference was co-hosted at Emirates Maritime Arbitration Centre in Dubai in
 2018 and 2019, with more than 100 attendees. The CSLPP hosted the sixth bi-annual
 Conference of the International Legal Ethics Association (ILEC VI), organized by BOON and
 DUNCAN, which took place in 2014 attracted over 300 delegates from more than 40 countries.


 vi. Increase PhD numbers further
 At the beginning of the assessment period in 2014, the total number of PhD students housed at
 the CLS was 20. In 2020, the total number has increased to 25, with an intake of 3 in 2015/16, 5
 in 2016/17, 6 in 2017/18, 6 in 2018/19, 3 in 2019/20 and 7 in 2020/21. This increase in number,
 while maintaining high quality, has injected dynamism into our research environment. Our
 doctoral students regularly contribute to our Working Papers and blog, attend workshops and
 conferences, and participate in funded research projects (e.g. MANCINI’s involvement in the
 Trilatrade project). During this REF period we awarded 30 PhDs compared to only 1 during the
 previous period.

 Our success in increasing the number and quality of our doctoral students was achieved in part
 through an increase in funding for studentships and the development of a rigorous training
 programme to ensure completion of high-quality research in a timely fashion. In 2016, the CLS
 launched a new doctoral studentship scheme which provides the cost of tuition and a stipend for
 three years. These studentships are aimed at outstanding law graduates who aspire to a career
 in academia. As discussed further in Section 2, the CLS proactively supports our doctoral
 students not only in the completion of their doctorates, but also in their career development.


 Future Strategic Aims

 Building upon the One School strategy of incorporating the professional and academic
 components into a united school, the CLS’s research strategy for 2021-2028 is to establish a
 focal point for interdisciplinary, internationally-minded legal research which fosters the cross-
 fertilization of ideas within our existing areas of strength, generating external grant income where
 possible across a diverse range of source while increasing further the number and proportion of
 academic staff producing 3* and 4* outputs. On impact strategy, we aim to engage the broader
 legal, business, social and political community through original research, amplified by external
 engagement and open-access publications. This work reflects our distinctive CLS legal culture
 embracing legal education, training and practice as both generators and users of research. We
 seek to generate research which yields new insights to address global challenges on issues
 such as inequality, the persecution of vulnerable groups, the regulation of technology as it
 underpins commercial activity and emerging debates in global governance including the role of
 lawyers in building and maintaining functioning societies.



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These goals will be achieved through the organisational integration of the CLS on a single site in
 our new building which opened in October 2020. Following severe restraints in our physical
 premises during the last two years of this assessment period, our new home, among the largest
 infrastructure projects by a UK law school in recent years, will provide 7,200 sq m of world class
 facilities for our research community. Designed to offer the best possible environment to sustain
 a thriving research culture, the £63m Sebastian Street building represents a turning point in the
 history of the CLS, enabling synergies to develop between historically segregated ‘academic’
 and ‘professional’ members of staff.

 Flowing from the above, our priorities for the next REF period are as follows:

 (1) Strengthen and support both specialist clusters and the work of individuals to deliver the best
 possible research outputs and expand funding from a diverse range of sources:

 We aim to attract more research funding from a more diverse range of sources by and
 individuals through our research clusters, identified above. Supporting the work of our centres
 will also include the encouragement of joint research projects involving City’s new
 interdisciplinary centres, including the Centre for Cyber Security, the Centre for Healthcare
 Innovation, and the Violence and Society Centre. The school will develop and implement a fair,
 transparent and effective Work Allocation Model which will enable staff to devote 40% of their
 time to their research. This policy will formalize reductions in the teaching and administrative
 burdens on ECRs. We will encourage each of our members of staff to apply for sabbatical leave
 and leverage the full resources of the Research Support team to identify sources of external
 funding and to assist in grant applications. In conjunction with our Research Support Officer and
 the university’s Research Office, this strategy will include more workshops and one-to-one
 support for ‘horizon scanning’ – identifying appropriate grant opportunities – and in the
 preparation of grant applications. A more robust system of peer review of grant applications will
 be put in place involving feedback from successful grant applicants, input from senior
 researchers, external review, and drawing upon broader expertise across City. Funding
 applications will be considered in staff workload allocations. More funding (to £12k from the
 current £8k) will be allocated to our Student Assistant Scheme allowing take up of this
 programme by more members of staff for longer periods.


 (2) Attract leading academics to pursue their research plans at our school.

 We seek to make outstanding academic appointments at all levels and to provide these
 individuals with the best possible facilities to pursue their research interests. Whereas in the past
 the CLS has tended to appoint at the level of Lecturer and Senior Lecturer, over the next REF
 period we have a long-term, strategic plan in place to appoint several world leading researchers
 at the professorial level. This will enable us to build and sustain institutional leadership and to
 facilitate a more formalised system of research mentorship including peer-review of draft
 publications and grant applications. Twelve new academic posts comprising academics at all
 stages of their careers have been created to commence in the fall of 2021.


 (3) Develop activities for research students which encourage their participation in the scholarly
 community.

 The CLS aims to increase the number of PhD students over the next REF period while
 maintaining quality and ensuring timely completion. As the doctoral studentship introduced in
 2016 scheme matures, the CLS’s growing reputation, in conjunction with the move to our new
 premises, will ensure that we are a destination of choice for postgraduate research students. In
 conjunction with City’s Doctoral College programme, outlined in our REF 5a) statement, our
 doctoral students will be encouraged to participate in our open access Working Paper series.
 The annual PhD research support budget will be doubled from 2021 to £20k to help support our
 students disseminating their results at conferences and in building their professional networks.

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (4) Enhance the impact of our research activities:

 We will continue to invest the achievement of impact by enlarging the budget for each of our
 research groups, allowing them to hold more events and attract more visiting speakers and
 researchers including those from outside academia. Promotion criteria will reward evidence of
 impact and visibility and this will be emphasized further during appraisals, promotion workshops
 and sabbatical applications. The school’s Communications and Media Relations team will
 support staff members to engage with stakeholders in government and the private sector as well
 as expand the visibility of our work to the general public through links with media, augmented by
 our recently established research blog (City Law Forum) and Working Paper series. A new role,
 Assistant Dean for Enterprise and Innovation, was created in the CLS in 2020 (currently
 ODERMATT), focusing on the commercialization of research outputs, amplifying impact, and
 encouraging those involving interdisciplinary collaborations with other schools and centres within
 the university. This will supplement the existing work of our Business Development managers
 who assist in reaching out to industry to identify beneficial applications of our research.

 2. People

 i. Staff recruitment and development

 Our recruitment strategy has been focused on strengthening existing research groups/centres
 and extending the disciplinary and jurisdictional reach of scholarship within the CLS. We recruit
 ECRs of the highest potential and provided them with the support to mature into leaders in their
 fields. This has included a reduction in teaching and administration obligations for their first three
 years and a mentorship scheme in which each ECR is paired with a senior member of staff in
 their research field. ECRs are encouraged to apply for university pump-priming awards, which
 are intended to strengthen a future funding application or lead to high quality publications, as in
 the case of STANTON’s work on local authorities. ECRs are given priority in the allocation of
 GCRF and HEIF funds, the latter of which were used to support YONG’s work on Brexit and
 citizenship, for example.

 Over the assessment period the school has recruited several ECRs with a view to enhancing our
 excellence in key research areas, highlighted above. In the field of domestic private law, BATES
 strengthened our profile in contract law and the English Legal System and BENNETT provided
 expertise in media law and tort. BAARS, HONKALA and RENZ bolstered our growing expertise
 in gender and sexuality law, with BAARS adding expertise in international criminal law and
 critical legal studies. GERMAIN brought experience in medical law. MCDONAGH and later
 GOOLD contributed to our growing specialism intellectual property law. YONG and more
 recently KENDRICK and O’LOUGHLIN have enhanced the CLS’s standing as a leading centre
 for research in both EU law and human rights. STANTON and MALAGODI complemented our
 growing research stream in constitutional law. ODERMATT and THOMSON have reinforced the
 CLS’s focus on international law from varying perspectives including energy law and legal
 history. WOLMAN allowed us to maintain a research presence in criminal law following the
 departure of several colleagues working in this field, as have STONES and KALINTIRI’s
 appointments in competition law. FERNANDEZ was hired to build on our strength in maritime
 and shipping law.

 CLS has several mechanisms in place for staff career development. Each member of staff is
 now required to submit an annual research plan as part of our annual appraisal process. This
 new initiative sets out a personal programme for research, publication and funding applications
 for the coming year. Constructive feedback on this programme is provided by the School’s
 Research Committee which includes elected members to afford broader participation. The
 establishment and review of research plans is designed to be supportive, setting out quantitative
 and qualitative indicators on research activity, including publications, grant applications, as well
 as impact and external engagement. The CLS’s monthly seminar series provides in-depth
 scrutiny of draft publications in a supportive environment for colleagues prior to final submission
 or to presentation at an external forum.

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We have implemented a new promotion policy with clear criteria around research excellence as
 a necessary condition for promotion coupled with a significantly enhanced regime to support
 colleagues in improving the quality of their research. Research performance in terms of REF
 outputs, submission and acquisition of external research income and the supervision of PhD
 students are now explicit conditions for promotion at all levels. ‘Preparing for promotion’
 sessions are now offered every year for our staff.

 During this assessment period a total of 28 academic and research staff were promoted (until
 end 2020). Among our senior-level research-active staff, during this REF period one female staff
 member was promoted to Professor (FAHEY, 2018), three females were appointed to Reader
 (AHMED, 2016, FAHEY, 2016 and DRAGHICI, 2018) and one to Associate Professor
 (CARRAN, 2019). One TIGNC member of staff (BAARS, 2020) was promoted to Reader. Three
 male staff members were promoted to Reader (TRUXAL, 2019; BARELLI, 2020; and BONADIO,
 2020).

 The CLS maintains an annual research budget which has more than doubled from £60k to
 £130k per year - evidencing the very substantial investment CLS has made in research. These
 funds may be used be for conference attendance, our Student Assistant Scheme, book
 launches, travel and accommodation during sabbaticals, research groups activities, and ad hoc
 events. The research budget further supports training for researchers, including for instance
 holding away days and other events relating to media and dissemination, impact and inter-
 disciplinary research workshops, and attendance at external research training events. In
 addition, the Organisational Development team within the university also provides support for
 staff, for example in the form of access to training and development, and to coaching and
 mentoring.

 Colleagues are encouraged to take sabbatical leave. During this assessment period, 12
 colleagues took advantage of sabbaticals, leading to the production of outputs such as
 DRAGHICI’s The Legitimacy of Family Rights in Strasbourg Case Law (Hart, 2017) while at
 Harvard, and COLLINS’s monographs The Public International Law of Trade in Legal Services
 (CUP, 2018) and Performance Requirements and Investment Incentives under International
 Economic Law (Elgar, 2015) at Berkeley and Oslo/Heidelberg respectively.

 Staff are further prompted to develop the impact of their research projects, with a teaching
 reduction allocated to staff members with promising impact case studies, along with the support
 of an Impact Officer, discussed further below.

 The CLS Academic Visitor Programme attracted 23 international visitors to the CLS over this
 REF period (pausing during the Covid-19 crisis). These include: Dr. Schwartz, Assistant
 Professor and Deputy Director of the Centre for Comparative and Public Law at the Faculty of
 Law, University of Hong Kong (2018), Dr. Chen, professor of shipping law with the Fudan Law
 School (2018) and Professor Shimada of Keio Law School (2015), which led to reciprocal
 fellowships and teaching exchanges for CLS academics visiting Tokyo in 2017, 2018 and 2019.
 The Programme is sustained by the fees paid by visitors.


 ii. Research students

 Our vibrant community of 25 post-graduate research students includes 30 successful
 completions since 2013-14 compared to only 1 from the previous REF period. This 30-fold
 increase flows from a significant investment of resources into our PG programme as well as the
 rigorous application of a training programme split between the Doctoral College and the school
 which is tailor-made to meet our students’ needs. PGR activity in the school is overseen by the
 PhD Programme Director (currently KOUTRAKOS), who also has responsibility for assessing
 applicants and progression monitoring.


                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Doctoral College oversees a Researcher Development Programme which develops
 fundamental skills in qualitative and quantitative methods, research ethics, thesis writing, and
 viva preparation. This is augmented at Department level with law-specific research seminars,
 grant writing workshops, and careers sessions in which PGRs may participate and, on occasion,
 lead. The CLS holds an annual PhD Research Forum day, during which students make
 presentations on their research to other students and members of staff, with prizes being
 awarded to the two best presentations. We have regular channels of communications with the
 PhD student representative both formally (through the Research Staff-Student Committee) and
 informally (through bi-monthly meetings between the Student Representative and the
 Programme Administrator).

 The school institutes a rigorous PhD upgrade process in which, within approximately 18 months
 of FTE registration, ongoing work is scrutinized by two members of staff. All doctoral researchers
 are reviewed annually. The CLS provides the necessary support to ensure that all students
 progress at the expected rate and submit their theses within four years of enrolment. Since the
 2015/16 intake 100% of our students have sat their upgrade viva within 18 months of enrolment.

 The annual PhD Research budget of £20k assists students in attending research conferences,
 where they can share their research and develop a platform/network for current and future
 opportunities. In the last full academic year all 19 applications for funding from the research
 budget to support student research activities were approved. Furthermore, all PhD students are
 invited to attend monthly staff research seminar events. PhD students can associate themselves
 with research groups and centres at the CLS, affording the opportunity for dialogue between
 research students and established academics in specialized fields. The PhD cohort is provided
 with a dedicated office which was maintained following the move to our new premises in 2020.

 The CLS applies to City’s Scholarship Board for fee waivers on behalf of excellent candidates
 who have not been offered or have not applied for a studentship. The CLS currently offers two
 studentships per year to outstanding candidates and hosts externally funded ECRs, for example
 the Horizon 2020 ITN project. There will be two doctoral positions on EU law derived from
 matched funding initiatives linked to our two Jean Monnet Chairs.

 Many of our doctoral research students have progressed their legal careers in academia and in
 the practice of law during the period. These include: AKPAN (PhD 2016, now Lecturer at
 Bournemouth University); ARVANITIS (PhD 2017, now Attorney at Hellenic Hydrocarbon
 Resources Management SA); CHIJIOKE-OFORJI (PhD 2019, now Lecturer, Liverpool John
 Moores University); ILLIEVA (PhD 2017, now Senior Associate at Freeths LLP); LADEZKA (PhD
 2016, post-doctoral fellowship Milano-Bicocca University); SINHA (PhD 2015, now Senior
 Lecturer at Kingston University); SULAIMAN (PhD 2015, now Justice of the Malaysian High
 Court); and VACCARI (PhD 2017, now Lecturer, University of Essex).


 iii. Equality and diversity

 The CLS has an Equal Opportunities Policy which it implements with vigour, promoting equality
 and diversity across its staff. An Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee, chaired by the
 Deputy Dean (ASHCROFT), was established in the school in 2020 to deliver City’s current
 Equality Objectives and implement City’s EDI Strategy at the school level, for example relating to
 race equality (Race Equality Charter and BAME attainment gap), and sexual harassment
 (EMPACT project). It also aims to ensure that policies and processes relating to EDI, such as
 the Transgender, Intersex and Gender Non-Conforming (TIGNC) Policy and the Bullying and
 Harassment policy, are implemented.

 Within the school, policies are applied equally to part-time and full-time staff, both having the
 same opportunities for sabbatical leave. Qualifying periods for sabbatical leave include maternity
 leave and time on research leave supported by grants. The CLS actively supports staff and


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research students who have returned from periods of leave. During this REF assessment period,
 two Senior Lecturers took paternity leave, one Lecturer took paternity leave and shared parental
 leave, one Reader took maternity leave, one Senior Lecturer took maternity leave, and one
 Lecturer took maternity leave. Periods of absence for family reasons are taken into account in
 our Annual Research Quality Monitoring (ARQM) scheme which evaluates research outputs
 from each member of staff and features in promotion criteria.

 In line with the university’s Athena SWAN Award, senior management in schools deciding on
 panel or sub-panel membership will consider matters of equality and diversity within their ARQM
 panels. During the period two female academic members took on senior roles as Associate
 Dean for Research (AHMED and FAHEY). Among our cohort of 25 current PhD students, there
 are 16 females (64%) and 9 males (36%).

 The profile of our staff is distinctly international: 82% of our researchers are from outside the UK,
 covering 13 different countries. Eight out of 30 of our researchers who provided survey
 responses identified as non-white, giving a 26% non-white racial profile for the school. The
 current Associate Dean for Research (CHOO) is non-white.

 Many of our researchers’ work touches directly on EDI issues. For example, the Gender and
 Sexualities Research Centre, based in City’s School of Arts and Social Sciences and involving
 the work of BAARS and HONKALA, evaluates how gender and sexuality intersect with other
 social divisions and identities. YONG and GERMAIN examined the gender implications of Brexit
 and Covid-19. MALAGODI and GERMAIN have worked on reproductive rights in developing
 countries.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 i. Research funding and strategies for generating research income
 CLS research staff are supported by colleagues from City’s centralised Research and Enterprise
 Directorate. This consists of a dedicated CLS Research Support Services Officer, who is the first
 point of contact from the Research Support Team; a Senior Manager who leads support for
 International Funding Programmes, the development/training programme and larger cross
 institutional bids; and a Business Development Manager who assists staff through administration
 of the HEIF fund and support with private contract research. Grant writing workshops are made
 available to our staff, including our doctoral students, by this team, often in conjunction with
 external expertise.

 Together, these systems have enabled us to expand our external grant income significantly,
 totalling £361,635 during the period. Examples of our successful funding applications include:
 FAHEY was awarded £209,350 by Horizon 2020 for her EUTIP MSCN-ITN project on EU Global
 Trade; £75,000 was awarded to BONADIO and MCDONAGH by Horizon 2020 under its
 Industrial Leadership - Leadership in Enabling and Industrial technologies - Information and
 Communication Technologies (ICT) framework for the Interactive Robotics Consortium
 (INBOTS) project; BAARS, along with an academic from City’s Business School, received an
 award of £18,560 from the ESRC for a seminar series on the concept of the corporation; RENZ
 received £49,357 from the ESRC for a project on ‘Reforming how Gender Identity is Regulated’;
 and the Trilattrade project (BONADIO, COLLINS, FAHEY, MCDONAGH and ROGERS)
 received £37,703 from the ESRC to explore the trading relationship between the UK, the EU and
 Japan. Two smaller awards were secured from the British Academy: ‘The External Dynamic of
 EU Law’ valued at £9,120 (FAHEY) and ‘The Public International Law of Trade in Legal
 Services’ (COLLINS) valued at £4,420.

 Academics at the CLS have also achieved success in the form of funded prizes. The Society of
 Legal Scholars awarded £2000 to DRAGHICI for research related to divorce law reform. The
 Modern Law Review further awarded £5010 to MALAGODI and MCDONAGH for a project
 entitled ‘Dominion Status at the Twilight of the British Empire.’ The Academy of Korean Studies
 awarded £11,530 to WOLMAN in relation to a project on human rights in Korea. LOVELAND

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 obtained £1000 from the Canada-UK Foundation for his exploration into the comparative
 aspects of public law. iProbono issued £1500 to MALAGODI for development work in
 collaboration with the Nepali legal sector. The Modern Law Review PhD student scholarship
 scheme made an award to doctoral student DINEV valued at £1,200 on the legal challenges of
 3D printing.

 Major outputs directly linked to research income during the period include: The monograph The
 Public International Law of Trade in Legal Services (CUP, 2018) by COLLINS which received
 British Academy/Leverhulme Small Grant funding; The Corporation: A Critical, Multi-disciplinary
 Handbook (CUP, 2017), by BAARS ed, and Spicer ed of City’s Business School which was
 made possible through ESRC funding for research events to develop a coordinated analysis of
 corporations as legal, social and economic entities, and ‘Intellectual Property Aspects of
 Robotics’ published in European Journal of Risk Regulation, (BONADIO, MCDONAGH, and
 Arvidsson), which is the first output from the EC Horizon 2020 funded INBOTS project.

 ii.Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact
 The CLS supports the dissemination of our research outputs with a view to achieving and
 amplifying impact in the following ways.

 First, since REF2014, as part of its impact strategy CLS has established and expanded its media
 engagement unit with specific responsibility for assisting academics with the dissemination of
 research to the broader public, including government, leading to more than a dozen
 appearances of our researchers before parliamentary committees (e.g. COLLINS, FAHEY,
 KOUTRAKOS and YONG). This unit has worked closely with CLS researchers on an individual
 basis to identify media outlets for research, and to assist in the provision of training for media
 appearances and techniques of social media dissemination, which are now regular occurrences
 for our staff, see further in Section 4. The CLS Twitter account @CityLawSchool, set up in 2010,
 has over 10,000 followers. During the reporting period, CLS has established both a research
 blog, City Law Forum, and a working paper series. Despite the constraints imposed by Covid-19,
 the 2019-2020 academic year saw a significant uptick in press coverage and external
 communications activity. The CLS’s Communications and Media Relations strategy showcased
 the expertise of academics, resulting in a total of 348 media mentions (255 in the 2018-2019
 reporting period); 44 mentions in Tier 1 national UK media (61 in the 2018-2019 reporting
 period); and 15 clips of broadcast coverage (36 in the 2018-2019 reporting period), see
 examples below in Section 4.

 Second, the CLS’s enlarged research budget (from £60 to £130k per year) has been used to
 develop research projects, facilitate conference attendance to disseminate their research.
 Colleagues such as BOON, DRAGHICI and ELVIN have used these funds to deliver papers at
 the annual Society of Legal Scholars or Socio-Legal Studies Association conferences during the
 assessment period. This budget can further support conferences and workshops at City, leading
 to individual and/or collective outputs. For example, publication of BOON’s edited collection on
 the regulation of lawyers and FAHEY’s edited volume on EU governance in the global order
 were celebrated with public events at City and online respectively. The research budget also
 provides a Student Research Assistant Scheme which has assisted with 72 assignments since
 2015, including projects undertaken by FAHEY on the global reach of EU law and ODERMATT
 on the international tribunals. The research budget has further supported novel dissemination
 channels such as The Media Law Podcast – the UK’s leading specialist podcast in this field –
 launched by BENNETT in 2018 in a collaboration with Wragg at Leeds and listened-to over
 10,000 times (by end January 2021).

 Over the assessment period, the school funded several staff members’ international travel to
 facilitate research and dissemination activities. For example, these resources enabled
 BARELLI’s visit to the University of Nanjing in China and the University of Saskatchewan in
 Canada to engage in research featured in his monograph Seeking Justice in International Law:
 The Significance and Implications of the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples
 (Routledge, 2016). TRUXAL travelled to the International Civil Aviation Organization, Airport

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Councils International and McGill University in Montreal to conduct interviews and research for
 his monograph Economic and Environmental Regulation of International Aviation: From Inter-
 National to Global Governance (Routledge, 2017). The CLS research budget funded
 GERMAIN’s visiting scholarship at the University of Montreal to collaborate with experts in the
 field of organisational theory and sociology, captured in her article: ‘Collegiality as Political Work:
 Professions in Today’s World of Organizations’ and her monograph Medical Doctors in Health
 Care Reforms (forthcoming, Policy Press 2020). The School funded COLLINS’s visiting stay at
 the Pluricourts Centre of the University of Oslo and Heidelberg University, resulting in his
 monograph Performance Requirements and Investments under International Economic Law
 (Elgar, 2015). KALPOUZOS’ research visit to Harvard, which features in one of our Impact Case
 Studies, received funding from the school’s research budget, as did travel relating to
 DRAGHICI’s Impact Case Study on the protection of journalists.

 The CLS benefits from the support of a dedicated Business Development Manager, whose role
 includes amplifying the impact of our researchers by stimulating links with government and the
 private sector. This colleague also assists in the distribution of HEIF funds which have been
 used, for example by BONADIO, to commission a graffiti poster and marketing materials to
 initiate contacts with the graffiti arts community and offer IP know-how. DRAGHICI used a HEIF
 award to appoint a researcher to inspect court files and collect original data from several Family
 courts in support of a proposal for reform on proceedings for financial provision upon divorce.
 YONG received HEIF funding for a conference on Brexit’s Effect on Citizens, Human Rights and
 Immigration which took place in June 2019. ALLBON, GERMAIN and MALAGODI received HEIF
 funding for a project on 'Reproductive Rights as Socio-Economic Rights in Nepal.’

 Our colleagues are further supported by two Impact Officers who assist in the generation and
 tracking of impact-oriented activities. In conjunction with the Business Development Manager,
 these officers were influential in facilitating our Impact Case Studies, including DRAGHICI’s work
 supporting the International Federation of Journalists’ advocacy efforts regarding improved
 international guarantees for journalists and MCDONAGH and BONADIO’s collaboration with
 universities in Latin America on universities IP policies.

 The CLS organises a monthly Staff Seminar Series in order to prepare draft articles for
 publication and public dissemination; publications are read in advance by colleagues followed by
 a presentation and feedback session. This series existed in an inchoate form during the previous
 assessment period but is now a regular event with broad participation and attendance (now held
 on-line due to the Covid-19 pandemic).
 Our researchers have access to a wide portfolio of library resources, including specialist legal
 databases (including Westlaw, LexisLibrary and HeinOnline). These resources are
 supplemented by an additional 250+ University-wide databases, explained in more detail in our
 REF 5a) institutional environment statement. The law library collections are maintained by a
 current annual budget of approximately £380,000 for specialist resources and a £1.6m spend on
 cross-School and Department content in the format of journal and e-book bundles as well as
 reference materials. Library Services invest significantly in e-books and researchers also have
 access to approximately 12,000 print books in our two law libraries (one at Gray’s Inn Place and
 one at Northampton Square), to be consolidated in the academic year 2020-21 at the new
 premises. These resources are supplemented by extensive collections held in the Northampton
 Square and Cass Business School libraries. There is also a Subject Librarian and a dedicated
 Research Librarian for Law who offer one to one support for researchers and run workshops in
 key areas such as literature searching, citing and referencing as well as specialist database
 support.

 Finally, in terms of our facilities, the CLS’s strategic expansion is captured by our new £63m
 building on Sebastian Street within our Northampton Square campus. Embodying the ‘One
 School’ plan designed to improve collaboration and enhance the vitality of our research
 environment, this 7200 sq m premises brings together both components of the CLS
 (professional and academic) as well as our PhD students, fostering deeper collaboration among
 our staff, enhancing the work of our centres and enriching the environment for our doctoral

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students. As a landmark building in central London, the new premises will serve as a focal point
 for our engagement with the wider public, government and industry, invigorating our capacity to
 generate impact from our research activities.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The CLS encourages collaboration both within and beyond academia, enhancing our
 contribution to the wider research base, economy and society beyond academia. These
 activities are taken into account during promotion applications and in annual appraisals.
 Achievements are celebrated through our termly Dean’s Newsletter and weekly Bulletins.

 First, with regard to our staff’s contribution to the academic discipline of law, the CLS academic
 staff maintain an active national and international conference presence, often supported by our
 research budget. Ten of our staff have acted as conference keynote speakers during the period.
 For example, KOUTRAKOS gave the Annual International and Comparative Law Quarterly
 Lecture, Institute of Advanced Legal Studies, in London in May 2019 on the topic ‘Judicial
 Review in the EU’s Common Foreign and Security Policy’. CHUAH gave the keynote lecture on
 ‘Renegotiating Charterparties in times of hardship’ at Middlesex University in London sponsored
 by the China-Europe Commercial Collaboration Association, Middlesex University, Southampton
 Solent University, World Maritime University, and the Chinese Shipping Association of London in
 June 2017. FAHEY delivered the keynote Vienna Lecture on the European Union at the EFI,
 University of Vienna on the EU’s role in Cybersecurity in November 2019.

 A significant number of staff contribute to the wider community by sitting on grant review panels
 for UK and international research bodies and funding councils. BAARS is a member of the peer
 review college for the ESRC and has acted as a reviewer for the AHRC and the British
 Academy. CHUAH is a member of the National Research Foundation South Africa panel of
 distinguished external reviewers, the College of Reviewers for the Canada Research Chairs
 Program and a member of the peer review college of the AHRC, as well as being an external
 reviewer for the Research Grants Council of Hong Kong. COLLINS is a reviewer for the Newton
 Fund/British Council, a co-opted reviewer for the Commonwealth Scholarship Fund, a peer
 reviewer for the British Academy Small Research Grants programme, a co-opted reviewer for
 the ESRC Inclusive Societies scheme, and a remote reviewer for the European Research
 Council. KOUTRAKOS is a reviewer for the Austrian Science Fund and the Belgian Fund for
 Scientific Research. FAHEY is a Horizon 2020 Global Governance Expert Evaluator, a reviewer
 of British Academy Small Research Grants and International Fellowships, a reviewer of the Irish
 Council for Humanities and Social Sciences Fellowships and the Czech Science Postdoctoral
 grants.

 Our researchers serve as editors or co-editors of academic journals. WOLMAN is a member of
 the editorial board of the Journal of East Asia and International Law and the Korea Yearbook of
 International Law. BONADIO is the Deputy Editor in Chief of the European Journal of Risk
 Regulation. HUNGERFORD-WELCH is on the editorial board of the Criminal Law Review.
 CHUAH is an editor for International Company and Commercial Law Review and is Co-Editor in
 Chief of International Trade Law and Regulation with COLLINS. CHOO is on the editorial board
 of the International Journal of Evidence and Proof. DUNCAN is Consultant Editor for The Law
 Teacher and is on the editorial board of the Legal Education Review. KOUTRAKOS is an editor
 for the European Law Review. BOON is on the editorial board of Legal Ethics. SEYMOUR is on
 the editorial board of the Journal of Contemporary Antisemitism. COORAY is a Managing Editor
 of the Journal of International and Comparative Law.
 Leading academic publishers seek the editorial expertise of our staff. FAHEY is on the editorial
 board of Routledge’s Multidisciplinary UACES series. BAARS is an editor for Bristol University
 Press’s Organization and Activism book series. CHUAH is an editor for Elgar’s Comparative Law
 Guides. SIME is editor of Blackstone’s Civil Practice for Oxford University Press. COLLINS is
 series editor for Routledge’s Insights on International Economic Law. Members of staff regularly
 review manuscripts and book proposals from academic publishers, including ELVIN (for Oxford


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University Press), GOOLD and FAHEY (for Cambridge University Press), BLAKE, BOON and
 DRAGHICI (for Hart) and BAARS (for Routledge).

 This expertise extends to the preparation of special issues of leading publications. BENNETT
 edited a special issue of the Journal of Media Law. CHUAH edited a special issue of the
 European Journal of Commercial Contract Law on the CMR Convention. COLLINS edited a
 special issue of the journal International Trade Law and Regulation for outputs derived from the
 Trilattrade project. FAHEY edited a special issue on the future of EU law for the Journal of
 International and Comparative Law and a special issue of the German Law Journal on EU law.

 Several CLS academics received or were nominated for prestigious academic prizes for their
 work during the period. MASRI was nominated for the Society of Legal Scholar’s Peter Birks
 Prize in 2017 for Outstanding Legal Scholarship for his monograph The Dynamics of
 Exclusionary Constitutionalism (Hart, 2017). GERMAIN’s monograph Justice and Profit in Health
 Care Law (Hart, 2019) was also nominated for the Peter Birks Prize for Outstanding Legal
 Scholarship and the Hart-SLSA Prize for Early Career Academics. MANGAN won the Society of
 Legal Scholars Best Paper Prize in 2016 for his article ‘Reconsidering Defamation as a 21st
 Century Tort.’ In 2015 COLLINS won the Gillis Wetter Memorial Prize, sponsored by the London
 Court of International Arbitration, for his article ‘The Line of Equilibrium: Improving Investment
 Arbitration through the Application of the WTO General Exceptions.’ YONG’s monograph The
 Rise and Decline of Fundamental Rights in EU Citizenship (Hart, 2019) was nominated for
 UACES (The Academic Association for Contemporary European Studies) Best Book Prize and
 was also nominated for the ICON-S Book Prize for outstanding books in the field of public law.

 Other examples of our contribution to the practice of law and the legal profession include the
 following: COLLINS’s work on trade in legal services was used by the Law Society of England
 and Wales International Committee to advocate greater liberalization of legal services. WALSH
 engaged in advocacy work on the death penalty in Asia and Africa. LINDSAY, START and
 WALSH worked with Africa's Socio-Economic Rights Institute (SERI) and Bertha Foundation to
 deliver courtroom skills in an advocacy workshop in Johannesburg in 2018. MALAGODI
 contributed to building the capacity of Nepali lawyers to realise the economic, social, and cultural
 rights enshrined in the 2015 Nepali constitution. She further contributed to a series of training
 workshops organised by the pro-bono lawyer network iProbono in partnership with the Law and
 Policy Forum for Social Justice, the Nepal Law Campus, and the Nepal Bar Association,
 supported by Role UK and UKAid. ALLBON used a HEIF award to explore the potential
 application and effectiveness of visualisation and legal design in both academic (learning and
 teaching for students) and civic (public legal education for specific vulnerable groups) capacities.
 TRUXAL was invited by the Malaysian Attorney General Chambers and Prime Minister’s Office
 to deliver series of workshops for high-level civil servants and judges on international air law
 obligations in 2015 and 2016. BOON’s edited collection, International Perspectives on the
 Regulation of Lawyers and Legal Services (Bloomsbury, 2017) is cited in the Roberton Report
 The Independent Review of Legal Services Regulation in Scotland (2018). DRAGHICI
 contributed to a project on fast tracking financial Claims in the Family Court in conjunction with
 the Centre for Child and Family Law Reform (2020).

 A significant portion of our staff have acted as expert witnesses for public and judicial bodies,
 reflecting the CLS’s strategic focus on the intersection between theory and practice. YONG gave
 evidence to the House of Commons Home Affairs Committee in 2019 in relation to the EU
 Settlement Scheme. BARELLI was an expert witness at the Standing Committee on Aboriginal
 Peoples of the Canadian Senate in 2019. LOVELAND gave evidence to a House of Lords /
 House of Commons Committee on Devolution. COLLINS gave evidence to the House of
 Commons International Trade Committee in 2019, 2020 and 2021 in relation to UK investment
 treaties post-Brexit and the House of Commons European Scrutiny Committee in 2018 in
 relation to Brexit. KOUTRAKOS provided evidence for the House of Commons Environmental
 Audit on the implications of Brexit for the UK’s participation in multilateral environmental treaties
 in 2017. FAHEY gave oral evidence before the House of Commons International Trade
 Committee for Exiting the European Union on post-Brexit trade policy and oral evidence before

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the House of Lords Constitution Committee on parliamentary scrutiny of treaties in 2018 and
 2019 and on digital trade in 2021. STANTON gave written evidence to the Housing and Local
 Government Select Committee for their inquiry into the Progress on Devolution in England in
 2019. In 2019 YONG gave evidence to the Parliamentary Committee on Home Affairs in relation
 to Brexit and Immigration. TOWNLEY appeared as cultural expert witness in the Coroners Court,
 Crown Court and family proceedings court. DRAGHICI presented the Draft Convention on the
 Safety and Independence of Journalists at an inter-governmental meeting convened within the
 UN Human Rights Council session in Geneva in 2019.

 Our researchers regularly have their work cited in legal judgments. For example, CHOO was
 cited by the Supreme Court of New Zealand (Wilson v R, [2015] NZSC 189) and the European
 Court of Human Rights (Murtazaliyeva v Russia, [2018] ECHR 1047). ODERMATT was cited by
 the CJEU in Wightman v Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union, C-621/18.
 Arbitrations put forward by the Institute of Family Law Arbitrators, created by the City-sponsored
 Centre for Child and Family Law Reform, were unanimously endorsed by the UK Court of
 Appeal in the case of Haley v Haley, EWCA Civ 1369 (2020).

 Members of the school are significant leaders in their fields, contributing to the vibrancy and
 development of the discipline of law. TEMKIN was awarded a CBE for services to criminal
 justice in 2018. STYCHIN and COLLINS became Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences in
 2016 and 2021 respectively. COLLINS was appointed to the roster of panellists for North
 American Free Trade Agreement (now United States Mexico Canada Agreement) trade
 remedies dispute settlement by the Government of Canada in 2018. He is also a member of the
 International Committee and Chair of the Trade in Services Working Group of the Law Society of
 England and Wales. JACKMAN is a member of the Human Rights Committee of the Law Society
 of England and Wales and won Lawyer of the Year at the Modern Law Awards in 2018 for her
 involvement in several high-profile human rights cases. She was subsequently appointed an
 Honorary QC in 2020. CHUAH was a distinguished Foreign Expert (Maritime Studies), National
 Science Centre, Poland (2017) and was an International Road Transport Consultant for the
 Asian Development Bank in relation to the One Belt One Road project (2015-2017). In 2020 he
 was commissioned as an expert contributor to the Sustainable Shipping Guidance by the UN
 Global Compact in its Practical Guidance for the Sustainable Ocean Principles project. In 2018
 CHOO was appointed as an academic expert for a project on criminal evidence law in China,
 jointly led by the Great Britain China Centre and the Chinese Supreme People's Court. DE
 THAN was appointed as a commissioner to the Jersey Law Commission in 2016. DRAGHICI
 was awarded an Academic Fellowship of the Inner Temple in 2018. WILSHER is a part-time
 Immigration Judge in the First Tier Immigration and Asylum Chamber. MILLS became a part-
 time Recorder of the Family Court in 2019 and was previously a Fee-Paid Judge of the First-Tier
 Tribunal (Health, Education and Social Care Chamber). SELLERS became a Recorder of HM
 Courts and Tribunal Service in 2020.

 Finally, our Media Support Officer facilitated an active media presence for our researchers with
 many regularly appearing on television, radio and in newspapers, fulfilling our agenda to
 disseminate the relevance of our work to the broader public. BOON was a consultant, and
 appeared as an expert, on a BBC Scotland documentary BBC Scotland Investigates: Lawyers
 Behaving Badly, on the practice of the Scottish Solicitors’ Disciplinary Tribunal. COLLINS was a
 frequent guest on BBC World News, BBC News and BBC Business Briefings in relation to global
 trade tensions. He also contributed pieces to The Telegraph, City AM, and The Spectator.
 FAHEY made several appearances as a commentator on Brexit on BBC World News, BBC
 News and BBC Five Live. WALSH was interviewed by the BBC World Service about her work
 assisting young Black barristers in South Africa. CLS academics have been regular authors for
 The Conversation during the assessment period, with notable contributions by STANTON (high
 business rates), BONADIO (intellectual property), DE THAN (the application of British law in
 overseas territories) and YONG (settlement status of EU citizens post-Brexit).




                                                                                            Page 15
