Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Goldsmiths, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 34, Communication, Cultural and Media Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context and structure

The Department of Media, Communications and Cultural Studies (MCCS) is one of the oldest and
largest media departments in the UK. In 2018 our Department celebrated its 40 th anniversary. The
Department is characterised by its diversity of approaches to, and articulations of, the
(inter)disciplinary conjunctures around media and culture. It has equal strengths in media and
communications and in cultural studies research, in humanities and in social sciences approaches,
in theory and practice-driven work and aims to operate across these boundaries wherever
possible. Its research spans a wide range of topics and modes of enquiry – from philosophical
studies of technology and human life to sociological investigations of media production and use;
from issues of cultural identities, embodiment and becoming to feminist, queer theory and critical
race, postcolonial and decolonial studies; from global screen studies and transnational
investigations of media and culture to critical (media) ecologies and environmental humanities;
from political economic studies of news media and journalism, power, policy and politics to
anthropological studies of media as social activism and sociological studies of creative labour in
the world of fashion and art.

With the welcome addition of colleagues from the former Centre for Cultural Studies in 2017-2018,
complementary research areas in philosophy of media and technology, critical theories of digital
media and political theory of media globalisation have become part of the Department. Our work
now encompasses the diversity of approaches to cultural studies scholarship from the empirical
and ethnographic to the textual and visual - all distinguished by an interdisciplinary approach. The
preservation of this cross/inter-disciplinary diversity and methodological pluralism is important for
the Department’s mission for politically engaged research that is critical and creative and has
impact beyond the academy.

Research Groupings
The Department’s research strategy is shaped by its commitment to maintaining its lively research
culture through six broad thematic groupings that point to shared questions across the Department.

(1) Media, Capitalism and Democracy: including work of the Media Reform Coalition on the
changing nature of news, journalism and political communications; media regulation and
technology policy; media power, politics and neoliberalism; new social movements, civil society,
media mobilisations and communities of resistance; media as (counter) public sphere(s); and the
study of globalisation in relation to issues of diaspora, borders and nationhood.

(2) Economy, Culture and Communication: investigating communication and discourse in
finance and financial media; everyday representations and public understandings of the economy
and economic life; creative labour, neoliberalism and organisational practices in the arts and
cultural industries; the impact of the promotional professions (branding, advertising, PR, marketing)
on the economy, culture and society.


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(3) Media Futures: bringing together humanities, philosophical and social science approaches to
understanding the changing role of media technologies, big data, computational media, AI and
global media flows in society, culture, the arts, economy and science through cultural and social
theory applied to crucial contemporary issues including climate change, precarity and inequality.

(4) Gender, Sexuality and Critical Race Studies: connecting the long tradition of work within the
Department on culture, representation, embodiment and affect to its specific strengths in gender,
sexuality, intersectionality and feminism; race, (neo)colonialism and postcolonialism, in national
and international contexts.

(5) Screen Cultures and Media Arts: consolidating the long-standing focus on screen cultures
within the Department, combined with an exploration and development of media arts such as
photography, video, digital imaging, sound and performance.

(6) Cultural Studies and Cultural Theory: articulating the diversity of approaches to cultural
studies scholarship from empirical and ethnographic to theoretical and artistic and incorporating
philosophically driven inquiry into culture and media.

Each grouping provides a supportive context for research – through debates, symposia,
conferences, reading groups, developing grant proposals and building collaborative synergies with
our research centres and units. They also connect with and feed into the overarching university-
wide research themes of Goldsmiths: social and economic justice; bodies, minds and society;
invention, creativity and experience; technologies, worlds, politics.

Research centres and units
The Department (co)hosts five research centres and one research unit that speak to the work of
the above groupings and provide infrastructural support for research activities. Their work is
subject to annual review by the Departmental Research Committee and triennial College-level
reviews:

Goldsmiths Leverhulme Media Research Centre
Led by Curran and Freedman and initially funded by the Leverhulme Trust, the Centre arose out of
a major five-year research programme (2007-2012) to investigate the social, political and cultural
impact of future changes in communication technologies. Since then, it has focussed on news and
journalism generating dozens of publications on political communications, journalism, internet
studies and media reform. It has received funding from the British Academy (Freedman) to update
media ownership research and the AHRC (Phillips) to investigate news consumption. The work of
the Centre is impact-oriented and was instrumental in establishing the Media Reform Coalition that
draws on academic research to campaign for increased accountability, plurality and diversity in the
media with funding from the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, Joseph Rowntree Charitable Trust and
Open Society Foundations. It supports the annual Media Democracy Festival and plays a key role
in bringing together academics, journalists, civil society actors and politicians to campaign for a
democratic media.

Centre for Feminist Research (CFR)
Led by Blackman, Mehta and Gunaratnam (Sociology) the CFR is a coordinating hub for feminist
work at Goldsmiths. It provides a forum for building and sharing emerging, and significant research
on intersectional and interdisciplinary feminist and queer studies. In addition to organising


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
seminars, workshops, conferences, film screenings, reading groups etc., the CFR runs the
Feminist Postgraduate Forum bringing together MA and doctoral students working on gender and
sexuality and the Feminist Pedagogy Network that enables crucial conversations on teaching and
learning. The CFR offers an intellectual home for the MA in Gender, Media and Culture. It also
enables public engagement through regular events providing a channel for feminist research at
Goldsmiths to be recognised across the UK and internationally. The Centre engages directly with
discussions of equality and diversity issues on campus (in relation to all aspects of the College’s
equality policy: race and religion, gender, sexuality, disability and widening participation) bringing
an intellectual context for the delivery of Goldsmiths' equality policies. It gained a British Academy
grant (Blackman) to research policies into sexual harassment in HEIs in the UK.

Centre for the Study of Global Media and Democracy
Set up in 2007 and led by Fenton and Nash (Sociology), this interdisciplinary Centre brings
together researchers from Media, Communications and Cultural Studies, Sociology and Politics
departments. It hosts a packed calendar of public lectures and debates, symposia, conferences
and seminar series following a different theme each year with a global outlook. Recent themes
include ‘Populism and the Media’, ‘Doing Democracy Differently’ and ‘Doing Media Justice’.
Externally funded research by Centre members has investigated social movements and the media
(ESRC: Barassi); London Community Video Archive (Heritage Lottery Fund and BFI: Dowmunt);
indigenous media in Australia (Leverhulme: Dowmunt). A project commissioned by and with
combined funding from eight Charitable Foundations and the National Council of Voluntary
Organisations (Fenton) led to the Centre providing the research team for the National Inquiry into
the Future of Civil Society in England. Other funding has come from the ESRC (Barassi) to
investigate the relationship between children, data and citizenship and the British Academy
(Fenton) to research the policing of political activities in civil society.

Political Economy Research Centre (PERC)
Goldsmiths Political Economy Research Centre is co-directed by Davis (until 2020) and Davies
(Politics). It seeks to refresh political economy and economics with more pluralist, critical and
interdisciplinary approaches, thereby challenging mainstream accounts of politics and economics.
The Centre engages with academics, students, public debates and policy. Its research themes
include elites, power and inequality; debt, money and financialization; instruments and institutions;
politics, policy and neoliberalism; economic imaginaries and public knowledge. Since PERC’s
inception in 2014, it has hosted 10 -15 events a year (speakers, workshops and conferences), with
well-known figures (e.g., Ann Pettifor, Ha-Joon Chang, Wolfgang Streeck, Simon Wren-Lewis,
Philip Mirowski, Mariana Mazzucato) and co-hosts the student-led ‘Rethinking Economics’
conference. Bourne (MCCS) runs the Heretical Finance Reading Group, which meets six to eight
times per year. In 2020 it hosted the Critical Finance Studies annual conference. In 2017 PERC
began its own book series, with two edited collections published to date and more in production.

Centre for Sound, Technology & Culture (CSTC)
The CSTC was established in 2020 and is co-directed by Henriques and Tanaka (Computing). It
brings together the Topology Research Unit, Sound System Outernational research group (a
collaboration with Universita D-Orientale, Naples and Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais,
Brazil to build an international network of practitioners and researchers dedicated to recognising,
researching, stimulating and supporting sound system culture worldwide); and the Sonic Immersive
Media Lab. CSTC houses the EUR2m ERC Consolidator grant (Sept 2020 – August 2025) on
‘Sonic Street Technologies (SST)’. This project claims that SST (e.g. Jamaican reggae sound

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
systems, Brazilian mobile carnival trio electrico, Mexican sonideros and Colombian los picos)
provide a new, productive and urgently required understanding of the social, cultural and political
nature of technology. CSTC works with the Departments of Computing, Music, Sociology and
Visual Cultures and aims to stimulate and facilitate further research in this area, initiate networks
between institutions, stage public events and widen local and student participation.

The Digital Culture Unit (DCU)
DCU is directed by Fuller and Zylinska. Understanding computational media as core to
contemporary culture, it aims to develop new relations between art and science, including methods
and fields such as software studies and critical technical practice with an emphasis on posthuman
perspectives. Providing a home for PhD students and visiting Research Fellows, the DCU is active
in computational aesthetics as they are manifest in contemporary art, architecture, design, music
and literature as well as in everyday life. It runs research workshops and hosts events with external
speakers and has collaborated with the Goethe Institute London, Arcadia Missa Gallery and the
Institute of Contemporary Arts (ICA).

Other research constellations are also active within the Department:

The Goldsmiths Media Ethnography Group (led by Madianou and MacDonald) is a research
hub for the understanding of media practices and technologies in a social and cultural context. It
brings together scholars from across the College who use ethnography to understand media
practices broadly defined and works to form partnerships with other national and international
centres.

The Photo Lab was initiated by Zylinska and established in 2018 by a group of image-making
practitioners in the Department. It is a collaborative research/practice unit, which explores the
broadly conceived area of photography and cognate forms of image-making. Its activities include
shared art-making projects and exhibitions, artist talks, research seminars as well as the
Goldsmiths Annual Photography Lecture.

Members of the Department play an active role in the newly established Centre for Queer History
in the History Department. This Centre aspires to be a global hub for queer history research
bringing together a multi-disciplinary range of students, scholars, activists and community
members.

Other emergent networks are actively working to establish research groupings in their fields:
including the Critical Race Studies Network, Critical Ecologies and Critical Perspectives on
Promotional Culture. As these groups develop, they are supported by both the Department and the
College to become established and to flourish (and potentially become research centres or units
with funding attached). The Critical Race Studies Network is through to the second stage for UKRI
funding (2021) to establish a Race Critical Research Centre.

Research and Impact Strategy

The Department has significantly fulfilled its strategic aims outlined in its REF2014 submission:

•   Expand collaborations with international universities: this has been achieved through an
    extensive programme of international visiting research fellows, including: Victor Pickard

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    (Annenberg School of Communication, Pennsylvania); Marko Ampuja (Tampere University,
    Finland); Lanfranco Aceti (Sabanci University, Istanbul); Laura Basu (Amsterdam. University);
    Bob Hackett (Simon Fraser University); Cristian Cabalin (Universidad de Chile); Alessandra
    Farne, Maria Jose Gamez Fuentes and Eloisa Nos Aldas (Universitat Jaume I, Spain); Marcelo
    Burgos Santos (Federal University of Paraíba, Brazil). The Department has undertaken
    significant collaborations with over 20 institutions around the world including: NYU, McGill, Free
    University Berlin, Florence Institute; Annenberg in Pennsylvania; Helsinki University; Tampere
    University; Mahidol University, University of California Irvine, University of Auckland, Tokyo
    University of Arts, RMIT, Colorado - Boulder. Staff have contributed towards the development
    of international collaborations through giving 263 public lectures at major arts/cultural events
    overseas, giving 154 keynote academic lectures overseas and undertaking 36 visiting lecturer
    positions at institutions around the world.
•   Strengthen our engagement between academic staff and PhD students: A joint initiative
    with Bremen, Sodertorn and the London School of Economics (LSE) included an annual
    international workshop with PhD students and staff leading to a joint conference and more
    opportunities for staff and students to better engage with each other’s work.
•   Strengthen existing research groupings: through collaborative research and publications
    and developed them further through new research areas (photography and media arts; critical
    race studies; the body and affect; political economy and critical theory of culture; biopolitics and
    aesthetics; philosophy of media and technology; critical theory of digital media; postcolonial
    studies; computational media; branding and promotional cultures, sound cultures and street
    technologies).
•   Embed and disseminate existing research: through the research centres and units within
    the Department all of which have produced many publications and conferences and held
    numerous public events. In the current assessment period, the Department has published 76
    books, 188 refereed journal articles, 246 book chapters and edited/co-edited 16 journal special
    issues. Across the research centres and units we have organised 114 conferences/symposia
    and participated in 51 research networks, consortia or initiatives organised by others.
•   Continue to seek major sources of external funding: the Department has had success in
    winning research grants from the AHRC, ESRC, ERC, British Academy, British Council,
    Australia Research Council, European Commission, BFI, Heritage Lottery Fund, French
    Research Council, Leverhulme Trust, Sociological Review and several charitable foundations
    (JRCT, Barings Foundation, Calouste Gulbenkian, City Bridge, NCVO, Cadburys, Paul
    Hamlyn, Esmee Fairburn and Power to Change). Through funding from Linkoping Universitet in
    Sweden, participation in the international environmental humanities collaboratory Seed Box
    was also established within the Department. In 2020, an ERC Consolidator grant was received
    (€2M) for work on ‘Sonic Street Technologies’.
•   Continue to stimulate research that crosses the theory/practice divide: with 29 films
    produced by staff members, 556 screenings of our own works, 50 exhibitions of our own works
    and participation in 126 practice forums/workshops/festivals.

Research Strategy over the next five years: Supporting the vitality and sustainability of
future research
The Department prides itself on undertaking research that is culturally and politically aware; that
shapes artistic, cultural, political and economic debates nationally and internationally; that develops
media and media art practices; and functions in symbiosis with various media industries. The vast
majority of staff working on different kinds of media, information technology, communications and
cultural studies research, explicitly position their work as a form of meaningful engagement with the

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
world through research that encompasses the politics, problems and prospects of our times. Much
of the research undertaken by the Department is therefore of a broadly political nature, an
orientation which is underpinned by a strong ethical commitment. Our work is driven by a desire to
change the world for the better, to make it fairer and more just, to open up the production and
circulation of social meaning to critique, to trace its history, to theorise its power and to make
interventions that matter to a whole society – with a particular focus on those who are being
disenfranchised by dominant media representations and communication practices. Our work finds
a wide audience amongst journalists; media practitioners; politicians and policy makers; trade
unions; galleries, museums and cultural centres; publishers; media and fashion start-ups – but it
also reaches those outside mainstream media and political structures (grassroots activists,
campaign groups, small artist collectives, NGOs, bloggers and independent publishers).

The principal aim of our Research Strategy is:

       To create and support the existence of a dynamic research environment that facilitates the
       development of world-leading and internationally excellent research, which is meaningful,
       which actively shapes the field of Media, Communications and Cultural Studies, and which
       has impact outside academia.

Our strategy between 2020-2025 is to:

   1. Ensure inclusivity through an appreciation that all research and knowledge exchange in the
      Department supports the development of Goldsmiths and the field and is not just directed at
      research that is fundable or material that can be submitted to REF.
   2. Develop and support critical research in our field that interrogates key social, political,
      economic and environmental issues of our age; that brings together practice and theory
      staff; that is inter-disciplinary, creative and politically engaged.
   3. Enact our core values that include supporting all staff and PhD students to achieve their full
      potential within a positive and vibrant research and knowledge exchange environment
      recognising that this requires confronting racism, sexism and other forms of discrimination
      in the academy.
   4. Provide a sustainable and supportive environment for research impact with research
      strategies and plans that engage with civil society, cultural organisations and creative
      activities within the local community, London and the world.
   5. Develop new and consolidate existing external research funding streams.
   6. Nurture an inclusive open access approach to all types of research artefacts and outputs.

How we develop our research and impact strategy
The Department develops and agrees its research strategy on an annual basis involving as many
members of the Department as possible. The annual (re)drafting of the strategy is undertaken by
the Departmental Research Committee who review the action points of the previous year’s
implementation plan taking into account any relevant developments. The revised strategy is
discussed at the annual Departmental research away day and ratified at the Departmental Board. It
is informed by the work within the Department and the College in relation to the REF and by
College-wide policies and strategies for research support, impact, public engagement and research
funding.




                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Department’s Research Committee comprises all academic ranks and areas and meets three
times a year. The Director of Research is appointed by the Co-Heads of Department on a three-
year rotation. They can serve two, three yearly terms but no more, to support fair and equitable
workload and role allocation. The Committee oversees the research and impact needs of the
Department, implements the Departmental Research and Impact Strategy and administers the
REF process. It reports to the Departmental Board on a termly basis.

Impact strategy: Supporting the vitality and sustainability of future impact
An implicit commitment to impact has shaped many of our research practices since well before the
‘impact agenda’ became part of higher education. Impact work is supported and sustained via the
work of the Research Committee, theory-practice activities, regular collaborations with media
industries, and through annual Performance and Development Reviews with individual staff –
where strategies and forms of support for conducting and promoting work that has significance and
effect in the outside world are discussed and developed. It also involves cultivating and
disseminating new theoretical and practical resources for understanding and intervening in
contemporary culture and contemporary political challenges as they manifest and are contested
through media and culture. As well as pursuing the practical implementation of our findings where
appropriate.

The main goal of our impact strategy is:

       To work through our research to evidence and actively enable a better, fairer and more just
       media and quality of life in the media and cultural world.

To these ends, our impact strategy (2020-2025) is to:

   1. Develop research funding bids with external partners in industry, the public sector and civil
      society with the aim of contributing to progressive change in social, cultural and media
      worlds.
   2. Where appropriate and in relation to research undertaken, build coalitions and participate in
      campaigns to advance social, economic, political, environmental and media justice.
   3. Organise public conferences and debates involving speakers and audiences external to
      universities; speak at public events outside the academy; engage with non-academic users
      of research such as art communities, public officials, activists, national and
      intergovernmental policy makers and parliamentarians.
   4. Make films, animations, exhibitions and documentaries as part of research projects to bring
      these ideas to a broader non-academic audience and to use them as advocacy tools for
      progressive social and media change.
   5. Appear/provide commentary for and write for the mainstream and alternative media; curate
      and participate in exhibitions; use social media where appropriate.
   6. Actively engage with public policy issues through submissions to public bodies, supporting
      legal challenges and working with civil society (e.g. future of the BBC; media reform;
      migration and the refugee crisis; open access and the future of scholarly publishing).

Enabling the achievement of impact
The College offers regular media training for staff and helps the Department to develop its impact
activity through competitive funding support for impact and public engagement activities as well as
running an annual public engagement award. The Department has two allocated impact

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
coordinators who encourage and support impact activity from the germination of research ideas
through to their final exposition. The Department has a 0.5 member of staff appointed solely to
enhance staff and student collaborations with industry. We encourage meaningful external
involvement in the regular conferences we organise. A weekly Media Forum invites industry
personnel into conversation with academic researchers in the Department. Research activity in the
Department and its wider impact is showcased on the Department’s website, through a regular
digital newsletter and via other social media.

The Department maintains links with a great number of cultural and media industries, bodies and
professionals (e.g. BBC, ITV News, Channel 4 News, National Union of Journalists (NUJ), The
Guardian, UN Nations Internet Governance Forum, Open Society Foundations, Ofcom, IMPRESS,
The Young Foundation, openDemocracy, Open Humanities Press, Tate Modern, The International
Society for Art, Science and Technology, Radical Film Network, National Experimental Arts Forum
(Australia), Fembot Collective). We take our research to art galleries as well as book, art and
media festivals nationally and internationally (e.g. London Independent Film Festival, Audio Drama
Festival, Arts in Mind Festival, BFI Flare, Whitechapel Gallery, Institute of Contemporary Arts,
Belfast Festival of Ideas and Politics, The World Transformed, D-Cent Festival (Berlin), Zurich
Museum, Wellcome Collection etc). And many staff members hold leading roles in cross-sector
and civil society organisations associated with their research (e.g. Co-Chair Internet Rights and
Principles Coalition - UN Internet Governance Forum; Council of Management of Institute of Race
Relations; Chair of Judges for One-World Media awards; Judge for Regional Press of the Year and
Specialist Reporter of the Year; Chair Media Reform Coalition, Vice-Chair Hacked Off).

Impact and public engagement are criteria for career progression and encouraged via annual
Performance and Development Reviews that recognise the time planning and participating in
public-facing activities takes. External and internal funding applications are assessed with ‘impact’
in mind. External partners from recent successful grant bids include BBC, Science Museum,
Serpentine Gallery, British Council, British Library, Random House, Open Humanities Press,
openDemocracy, CitizensUK and FutureForum.

Open research environment: effective sharing and management of research data
Through Kember, the Department initiated the creation of Goldsmiths Press - a platform for
publishing innovative, cross-media scholarship. It builds partnerships with external organisations
including MIT Press. It is a green open access monograph publisher, making appropriate material
available on the institutional repository, Goldsmiths Research Online (GRO). In May 2019
Goldsmiths Press ran a one-day conference on ‘Critical Issues in Open Access and Scholarly
Communications’ to discuss the implications of open access for books and the possible impact on
the arts and humanities in the face of increased publisher processing charges and budgetary
pressure on university libraries. The report from this event was used as evidence for the UKRI
Open Access Review. The Department is at the forefront of this debate and is seeking to ensure
that research data continues to be effectively shared in our fields.

Supporting interdisciplinary research
The Department is constituted on an interdisciplinary basis and celebrates its diversity of
approaches to and articulations of the many interdisciplinary conjunctures around media,
communication and culture across humanities and social science approaches and in theory and
practice driven work. Staff work within and across media, communication and cultural studies often
combined with philosophy, sociology, politics and international relations, law, history,

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
computational studies, anthropology, literature, theatre and performance and others.
Interdisciplinary research is explicitly encouraged through our research centres that require a
diverse range of members across more than one department to be involved in their running and
activities; as well as through the research themes and networks that run on a college-wide cross-
departmental basis. The Department also hosts the practice-based PhD network (see Section 2,
People).

Supporting a culture of research integrity
The Department has a research ethics committee that supports PhD/Masters’ students in
maintaining a culture of research integrity. All researchers complete a research ethics form for any
research project. This form is checked by the Chair of the Departmental Research Ethics
Committee. Staff submit research ethics forms to the College-wide Research Ethics and Integrity
Sub-Committee for approval. Ethical clearance must be obtained before any research project is
begun. Ethical considerations include the application of appropriate research protocols for projects
(such as independence of researchers, no harm to human participants, integrity of research, fidelity
to verifiable knowledge, consent to research and use of data, rights to privacy, confidentiality and
anonymity) as well as the management of research staff. Goldsmiths is a signatory to the
Universities UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity and has adopted the UK Research and
Integrity Office’s (UKRIO) Code of Practice for Research.

 2. People

Staffing strategy and staff development

The Department prides itself on strongly supporting career progression and development, as well
as promoting equality and diversity. Our aim is always to practice what we preach: our research
actively engages with critiques of racism, inequality and heteronormativity. At the 31 st July 2020,
60% of our Category A eligible staff and eight of our 15 Professors self-identified as female. 14% of
our Category A staff were BME and 6% have a declared disability. We recognise that there is
much more to do to ensure diversity of staffing in terms of ethnicity, class, sexuality and disability.
We have an equal and transparent workloads allocation scheme enabling every member of staff
(across practice and theory and regardless of contract type) equality of research time. We oppose
casualisation of labour and have successfully converted temporary teaching and research
contracts into early-career permanent posts (e.g. Burton), while helping many contract researchers
gain employment elsewhere. All of our Category A eligible staff are on permanent contracts.

The Department has grown in recent years partly due to the addition of 4.4 (FTE) colleagues from
the Centre for Cultural Studies. We have further strengthened our research environment through
other strategic appointments at all levels (Asquith, Cefai, Mehta, Saha as Lecturers; Williamson as
Senior Lecturer, Clayton as Professor); through internal promotion of research-active staff
(Asquith, MacDonald, Saha and Barassi to Senior Lecturer; Khiabany and Madianou to Reader;
Henriques, Crook and Phillips to Professor), through the full engagement of contract researchers
and visiting research fellows in the life of the Department.

We have a sustainable staffing strategy supported by Goldsmiths’ annual Performance and
Development Review. In addition, the Director of Research holds individual research consultations
with staff to develop and support their research throughout the year. New staff in the Department
have a mentor to support their first few years at Goldsmiths. Career guidance and other


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
development opportunities (e.g. Postgraduate Certificate in the Management of Teaching and
Learning, which uniquely combines pedagogic training with discipline-specific topics and politico-
ethical focus) are available to staff at all levels, including research staff. All staff have a research
‘buddy’ for mutual feedback and support. Goldsmiths’ central services offers support for Early
Career Researchers (ECRs) in line with the UK’s Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers.

Supporting, recognising, enabling and rewarding staff for carrying out research/impact
Sabbaticals: The Department has a policy of awarding one term after every three years as
research/impact leave. The research sabbatical scheme is automatic, written into Departmental
planning and given to all members of staff on contracts of 0.5 and above whether they are on
Teaching and Research (T&R) or Teaching and Scholarship (T&S) contracts. As far as we are
aware, we are the only department in our field to offer this level of research support. The Research
Committee keeps under review the effectiveness of this scheme, alongside the practical issue of
balancing equality of workloads. It is designed to be as non-bureaucratic as possible and has
made a huge difference in people’s ability to do research and impact work since its introduction in
2012. This scheme has also contributed to the large number of research outputs and in particular
the number of research monographs published between 2014-2020 (44 of the 76 books published
are monographs).

Stimulating exchanges between academia and business, industry or third sector bodies:
The Department has actively recruited people who have worked at high levels in the media
industry, supporting research based on their experience and networks. One example is Gardiner,
formerly Comment Editor of The Guardian. Since joining us she has undertaken high-profile
research into online trolling of women and journalists of colour at The Guardian and has extended
this research internationally for UNESCO working with the International Center for Journalists
(ICFJ) and researchers at Sheffield University. The Department’s permanent 0.5 member of staff
facilitates exchanges between academia and industry placing over 100 student internships each
year, which in turn lead to critical scrutiny of industry practices informed by Saha, Phillips and
McRobbie’s work on cultural labour.

The Department also supports researchers’ involvement with third sector bodies such as Hacked
Off, the Media Reform Coalition, London Community Video Archive, the Centre for Investigative
Journalism, The Young Foundation and IMPRESS through funding events, providing space,
allowing time and recognising these activities in career progression.

Internal research funds: All academic staff have an annual personal research allowance (£1,250)
allocated proportionally to staff on fractional contracts. This fund supports individual research
where other funding is unavailable. The fund is used to cover expenses such as conference and
research trips, interview transcriptions, research assistance, software or the purchase of one-off
research materials needed for a particular project. The allowance applies to practice researchers,
who might require the purchase of equipment for a particular project. Additional funding allocations
are available on a competitive basis via two annual Departmental funds: a Research Initiatives
Fund (£6,000) and a Teaching and Learning fund (£6,000). Further research funds are available
from central university resources for public engagement, to support ECRs and to seed fund new
projects.




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Annually, each Research Centre receives £1,800 from the Department and each Unit £900 (most
centres also receive commensurate amounts from collaborating departments) to support their
activities.

Research students

The Department has a large, lively and multicultural PhD programme that currently has 76 students
of whom 24 are international students. All contribute substantially to the energetic, intellectual
debates through student-led seminar series, and student-led national and international
conferences (sponsored by the Department).

The Department has pioneered practice-based PhDs and is the host institution for the practice-
based PhD in Screen Media – a training and support network for all those doing, supervising and
examining media practice-based doctorates. We encourage applications from candidates who wish
to submit as part of their thesis a portfolio of practical work (such as photographs, video, film or
other audio-visual material) alongside a reduced textual component. The Department has an
extensive bank of technical resources for digital media production, including HDV and DVCam
production, AVID, Final Cut Pro and a range of photographic and digital imaging equipment all
managed by a skilled team of Technical Advisers ready to support PhD students and staff as
necessary.

Monitoring and support mechanisms linked to evidence of progress of successful
completions
Great emphasis is given to involving the Department’s research students in its research culture.
Our first-year students participate in College-organised research programmes and two methods
courses in the Department. We have also run Cultural Studies PhD seminars, and twice-termly
PhD colloquia in the areas of Critical and Cultural Theory; New Media Philosophy; Globalism,
Activism, Art; and Critical Practice, each led by an invited guest or faculty member. Every student
is allocated a first and a second supervisor (some are co-supervised by two staff) and is seen
regularly. Report forms are completed and agreed between supervisor and student after every
supervision. All students go through an annual assessment panel where their progress is
evaluated by two members of staff (one of whom is not on the supervisory team) and extensive
feedback given. An upgrade panel is held in June of the second year where they are assessed by
a further two members of staff who have not been involved in their supervision or assessment to
date. Between 2013/14 – 2019/20, 90 students were awarded PhDs from the Department.

Support for skills development and preparation for future careers
The Department supports specialised methods training for students engaged in Screen related
research with dedicated programmes facilitated by our membership in and hosting of the Screen
Studies Group - a consortium of Film and Screen scholars from eight University of London
Colleges that produces Screen-related research events. These events explore various
methodological approaches to film archives, cinema audiences, production and distribution,
gaming, television, streaming activity etc. Practice-led research has a monthly colloquium where
students are joined by researchers from participating institutions to present and reflect on works in
progress. Further support for both of these cohorts is generated by CHASE funded Artist Master
Classes, organised six times per year.




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We involve PhDs in Departmental events, both as organisers and presenters; as well as inviting
them to participate in Departmental meetings. The Centre for Feminist Research runs a forum for
postgraduate and PhD students working in the areas of feminism and gender (often relating to
intersectional research combining race, class, gender and sexuality). PhD students are invited to
take part in staff appointments and each receive an annual funding allocation of £200 to support
their research activities. They are able to apply to the Departmental Research Initiatives Fund
administered by the Research Committee, to put on their own events.

To facilitate academic development, we co-organise two PhD networks that reach across other
HEIs in London (City, LSE, Westminster) and Europe. The London network involves two
collaborative workshops each year giving students a chance to meet, build networks and get
feedback from staff at other London institutions. We have also been part of BRESTOLON – a fully
funded network for PhD students across Goldsmiths, LSE, Bremen and Sodertorn universities
enabling PhD students to gain international connections, attend an all-expenses paid annual
conference and take part in extended research visits within network institutions. As a result of this
network Goldsmiths and LSE co-hosted a successful MeCCSA Postgraduate annual conference at
Goldsmiths in 2017.

The Centre for Global Media and Democracy runs a post-doctoral fellows’ scheme for Goldsmiths’
PhD graduates. This scheme offers a small number of postdocs the opportunity to gain continued
support for their research after completing their PhD, to publish, put in funding bids and host their
own events.

Recruitment of doctoral research students, including those with protected characteristics
Doctoral students apply to the Department via an online system that clearly outlines the
requirements of the application. The Departmental Management Team monitors recruitment and
progression of all students in terms of those with protected characteristics to identify problems and
to work towards equity. Where problems are identified they are referred to the Post Graduate
Research (PGR) admissions tutor and the PGR Committee for action. The Department actively
prioritises students with protected characteristics when selecting who to put forward for DTC
funding.

Studentships from major funding bodies
Between 2014-2020, five students have gained ESRC awards from the new Doctoral Training
Centre (DTC) with Queen Mary and 11 from CHASE (the £17M AHRC DTC Consortium for
Humanities and the Arts in South-East England with the Courtauld Institute of Art, Open University,
and the universities of East Anglia, Essex, and Kent). This institutional funding provided 370
studentships, of which 65 were at Goldsmiths. Studentships are allocated through a competitive
process open to all eligible departments. Nonetheless, lack of PhD funding continues to be a
problem.

Equality and diversity

The Department is fully committed to equality and diversity in the recruitment and support of all
staff and recognises this is an issue requiring constant vigilance and action; particularly in relation
to the recruitment and support of BME, LGBTQ+, disabled and working-class staff that have
consequently increased in recent years. All staff are automatically granted a sabbatical term after
every 9 terms, get the same individual research allowance (£1250/per year on a pro-rata basis)

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and are able to apply for internal research funds. The Department has a fair workloads scheme
giving all staff equal opportunity to do research. Flexible and remote working is supported and
encouraged. Many staff with caring responsibilities regularly work from home. During this
assessment period staff have taken career breaks through unpaid leave, had parental and
maternity leave, been granted remote working from overseas and taken secondments as visiting
fellows at other institutions. All have continued to have access to the research support in the
Department and the College during these periods and have been fully supported on their return
with adjusted working patterns and loads as appropriate. Career pathways for part-time and fixed
term staff at all stages of their career are carefully considered through the annual Professional
Development Review. Several of our senior staff have requested reduced fractional contracts as
part of phased retirement process and all have been accepted.

It is mandatory for all staff to undertake training into Sexual Violence/harassment and Race
Awareness. The Department is fully committed to anti-racist pedagogy and practice and discusses
on an on-going basis how to better address race and intersectional discrimination within the
academy and our own research and teaching. The Department is currently engaged in
decolonising and liberating our curriculum and actively promotes and upholds diversity in our
research by ensuring representation of BME scholars and anti-racist writers/activists at meetings
organised by our research centres and units as well as no all-male panels.

In 2019 we established a Departmental Diversity and Equalities Committee consisting of
representatives from all other main Departmental committees. The committee considers all aspects
of equalities and diversity concerns within the Department including how the research environment
can better support people with protected characteristics and caring responsibilities such as
conference attendance or travel to support research; support for submission of funding
applications; promotion and reward procedures and training. We are undertaking a
departmental equalities audit to cover all staff (fixed term and permanent, across all grades and
contract types) by ethnicity, sexuality and gender (in addition to the college-wide audit that takes
place). Equality and diversity issues have been carefully considered in the selection of the output
portfolio through monitoring EDI data at every stage of the REF process to ensure decisions were
based only on explicit REF criteria and were not subject to (un)conscious bias (see Goldsmiths’
Institutional Equalities and Diversity statement).

Supporting staff and student well-being
All Goldsmiths staff benefit from a Staff Wellbeing Centre that also houses staff counselling and
occupational health (see Goldsmiths institutional environment statement).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research funding and strategies for generating research income

The Department’s research culture is supported by competitive funding from research councils,
foundations, charitable trusts and industry. Externally funded grants are an important part of our
research income e.g. Henrique’s ERC consolidator grant for ‘Sonic Street Technologies’ (€2M);
Barassi’s British Academy Mid-Career fellowship for ‘Child, Data, Citizen’ (£113,000) and her
ESRC project on media technologies and social movements (£30,000); Fenton’s project ‘Civil
Society Futures funded by eight foundations and the NCVO (£105,000) with a follow-on project on
policing the political in civil society funded by the British Academy (£9,979); Blackman’s British

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Academy grant examining the complexity of sexual misconduct and power within universities
(£9,947); MacDonald’s British Council Newton Fund project ‘Digital ethnography for digital
empowerment’ (£96,000); Franklin’s work on state violence and race in settler societies funded by
the Australian Research Council (£26,000) and her participation in the ‘Global internet governance
actors’ project funded by the French Research Council; Clayton’s ESRC funded project on Child
Refugees (£26,000) and an ESRC/DFID funded project on the European refugee crisis (with Eyal
Weizman); Saha’s early career fellowship from the AHRC on diversity in publishing (£195,000);
Freedman’s British Academy grant on media ownership (£9,942); Zylinska’s European
Commission’s FP7 funding for a project on open and hybrid publishing (£105,000). McRobbie and
Kember were both part of the AHRC CREATe 2013-2018 programme on IP and Copyright in the
Creative Industries (£1M Goldsmiths WP in total). McRobbie was Mercator Fellow Oldenburg
University 2017-8. Dowmunt received an Emeritus Leverhulme Fellowship in 2019 to investigate
the vitality and relevance of indigenous media in Australia (£20,000). Fuller received £73,000 from
the MISTRAS-FORMAS funded Seed Box for environmental humanities research. Fenton has a
grant for £56,000 from the JRCT for a Campaign to Redefine Public Media; and Freedman
(£30,000) for a project researching media influence in the UK. Although many of these are small
research grants much research benefit and impact activity has been gained from them

The Department receives support from the College Research Office in the preparation of research
bids. A College newsletter with funding opportunities is distributed monthly; opportunities are
identified by the Director of Research with individual staff who are actively encouraged to apply for
grants. Staff attend training workshops organised by the College and external bodies on writing
funding applications. At the Departmental level, support is provided via administrative assistance
within the Departmental office and by the Director of Research, in the costing, developing and
writing of new bids. Those who gain externally funded grants are supported by a designated staff
member in the Departmental office, the College Research Office and the Director of Research. The
Department also supports Principal Investigators through providing access to 50% of the
overheads that come to the Department through FEC funded projects for the furtherance of their
research aims. While the Department offers support to all staff in the development of funding
applications, it also encourages blue-sky thinking which may not lead to funding bids, but which
helps maintain the vitality of the research culture ‘beyond the bid’. In recognition of the fact that
certain research areas find it more difficult than others to attract externally funded research, grant-
getting is not a condition of career progression and grant-holders do not receive preferential
treatment.

Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact

The Department has a packed calendar of research seminars, symposia, conferences and events
featuring world-renowned practitioners, thinkers, researchers and policymakers organised by the
research centres and units that receive funding from the Department. For example, the Puttnam
Inquiry into the Future of the BBC (funded by Goldsmiths - £50,000) organised a series of public
events in 2015/16 including sessions with the BBC Director General at BAFTA, the Chief Executive
of Channel 4 in Parliament, Sir Lenny Henry at Goldsmiths, the filmmaker Ken Loach at the Writing
on the Wall festival in Liverpool, the broadcaster Melvyn Bragg at the Guardian, and the musician
Brian Eno at the British Academy. The Inquiry’s report was covered extensively in the national and
trade press.

Further seminar series have been run under the banner of ‘Critical Perspectives on Promotional
Cultures’ examining emerging practices in promotional culture, such as Artificial Intelligence and

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
emotions in advertising, culture jamming, and new feminist and anti-racist critiques of promotional
media and culture; another focusing on digital ethnography and one on Human Rights and the
Internet with a series of guest speakers including industry and technology experts, civil servants,
practitioners and activists; all supported by funding from the Departmental ‘Research Initiatives’
fund allocated by the Research Committee.

Twice termly, staff come together for ‘research-reveal’ sessions to share, ideas, research in
progress, research frustrations and solutions in an informal setting. Once a year, the Department
funds a research away day for all theory and practice staff to share research and stimulate new
research projects.

Operational and scholarly facilities supporting research and impact

The Department is located across two buildings. The Media Research Building (MRB) houses
visiting fellows, research staff on fixed-term projects and office space for PhD researchers, as well
as seminar and meeting rooms, three screening rooms, two computer facilities and six video
editing suites to support Undergraduate (UG) and Postgraduate (PG) Practice. The MRB is next to
the Professor Stuart Hall Building that houses most of the staff in the Department, five dedicated
computer rooms for UG/PG practice teaching, a radio studio, radio newsroom and eight edit suites,
TV/film studio and thirteen edit suites, plus two audio post-production suites, two photography
studios, two darkrooms, digital printing and computer rooms for photography, animation and
illustration studios, four animation rostra and two computer rooms for animation/image production,
a 250-seat lecture theatre and a 120-seat screening room, as well as two large (60- and 70-seat)
teaching rooms, public seating areas and a large atrium which is used for exhibitions. Support staff
in the Department include 16 (FTE) technical advisers, with professional expertise across a
number of creative fields. The Department also has use of the Curzon cinema on campus for
screenings as well as other exhibition spaces.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Support in place for and effectiveness of research collaborations, networks and
partnerships, in other institutions, locally, nationally or internationally and indicators of
their success
The Department is at the forefront of engaging with established international traditions of doing
research in Media, Communications and Cultural Studies – via the recognisable trajectories of
political economy, cultural studies, film and screen studies, and journalism – and setting new
trajectories for research (including Blackman and Cefai’s work on ‘the affective turn’; Saha’s work
on critical race studies; Phillips’ involvement in digital journalism; Curran, Davis, Fenton, Freedman
and Khiabany’s work on critical political communications; Kember and Zylinska’s work on
photomediations; Bourne, Davis, Moor and Williamson’s work on promotional cultures; Fuller’s
work on software studies and computational cultures). Research collaborations with other
academic departments, institutions and industry are actively encouraged and supported through
the sabbatical scheme. For example, Clayton has collaborated with Forensic Architecture in the
Department of Visual Cultures (Goldsmiths) and with Sociology at York University; Franklin’s
research involves collaboration with an international network of scholars and public policy
institutions; McRobbie works closely with collaborators at the Free University in Berlin; Phillips has
worked closely with colleagues in Helsinki and Curran has worked with an extensive network of
scholars spanning all continents. All have resulted in joint publications and received prizes for


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
impact (Clayton’s film on Calais Children) and research (Curran’s comparative cross- national work
on news audiences)

Interactions and engagement with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences to
develop impact from research, to enrich the research environment and engage with diverse
communities and publics
We engage constantly with people to enable the best use of our research as evidenced in our
three impact case studies. The Department founded the Media Reform Coalition that brings
together civil society groups and media campaigners to advance issues of media reform emerging
from the research of academics in the Department (and others in the coalition). This advocacy
work, housed in the Goldsmiths Leverhulme Media Research Centre, has framed and motivated
further research investigations and a REF impact case study. This explicit linking of research and
advocacy has: stimulated and informed media policy debate in parliament and political parties;
influenced the work of the NUJ, the Campaign for Press and Broadcasting Freedom, Hacked Off,
We Own It, Avaaz, 38 degrees and Extinction Rebellion; made a high-level and effective
contribution to public, political and policy debates on media ownership, local news, tech power,
press regulation, public service television and impartiality; been incorporated into the A Level
Sociology curriculum and is now a compulsory part of it; and influenced media industry practices.

Clayton’s impact case study shows how her practice research resulting in a documentary on Child
Refugees was used as evidence in the High Court to support a change in the law over the
treatment of lone child asylum-seekers. Clayton’s research findings as evidenced in her film
generated a Parliamentary debate, 10 items on ITV and Channel 4 News and a public engagement
campaign with over 280 events in eight countries. Along with a book and two ESRC/DFID-funded
research projects, her work has played a key role in educating a variety of publics on the reality of
the current refugee crisis in Europe, especially for minors.

Franklin’s impact case study shows how our research activities lead to advocacy work that is not
only UK media-based but addresses Internet governance and human rights work internationally at
the UN. Franklin’s work has influenced policymakers, digital rights campaigners, and technology
experts. A core element has been her role in disseminating the IRPC Charter of Human Rights and
Principles for the Internet (translated in over 10 languages) through the “Charter Booklet Project”.
Her scholarship and advocacy work have contributed to changing mindsets in relation to human
rights standards for internet policymaking at the UN, in Europe, Cameroon, Brazil, and the Middle
East and North African region.

Wider activities and impact of research that is not captured in the impact case studies
Other pathways to impact and knowledge exchange extend across the Department. Asquith’s
documentary ‘Queerama’, on queer representations on British Screen, has been viewed by over
1.7 million people globally, generating public debate and local and international press coverage.
Harwood’s ‘table of tables’ was created as part of an exploration into how healthcare services staff
interact with databases and how this impacts on their day-to-day experiences. The installation, in
an addiction clinic, is a functioning table and prompts reflection, discussion and debate by service
users, support workers and healthcare staff who meet around it. Saha’s research on diversity in
publishing is starting to influence industry practices with publishing houses seeking his advice to
implement diversity policies.




                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Evidence of our contribution to the sustainability of the discipline, support for and
exemplars of interdisciplinary research
Members of the Department are actively involved in setting the agenda for their field. They are
regularly invited as keynote/plenary speakers at high profile events (96 UK-based and 154
overseas keynotes since 2014), including at international conferences where new work in the field
of Media, Communications and Cultural Studies is mapped out and also where it inter-relates to
other disciplines (e.g. Curran at Brazilian Journalism Studies Association, Fenton at ECREA,
European Sociological Association, Political Studies Association, International Society for Third
Sector Research; Freedman at OurMedia; Fuller at Interfaces; Madianou at ECREA Doctoral
summer school; Zylinska at ECREA and Norwegian Media Researchers Association); through
giving prestigious named lectures (e.g. Curran: distinguished lecture series, Hong Kong City
University; Fenton: Dallas Smythe Memorial Lecture, Vancouver; Zylinska: Winton Chair
Cornerstone lecture, Minnesota, Silver lecture series, Vienna and the Medea Talk, Malmo); as key
members of steering committees of leading organisations in the field (ICA: Saha and Madianou;
IAMCR: Khiabany; MeCCSA: Fenton and Williamson; GigaNet: Franklin); as advisors/referees to
national and international research and funding bodies (e.g. AHRC; ESRC; Leverhulme; Irish
Research Council; Academy of Finland; Australian Research Council; European Research Council;
British Council, The Kone Foundation; Norwegian Research Council; ERC; National Science
Foundation USA; Israel Binational Science Foundation; British Academy; Estonian Science
Council etc.); as a member of the REF subpanel 34 and Chair of the REF equivalent processes in
Portugal (Fenton) and a panel member of the Research Assessment Exercise (RAE) in Hong Kong
(Fuller) for our field.

Indicators of wider influence
Many members of staff have held visiting positions at other universities (e.g. Freedman at
Annenberg, Penn State; Fenton at Helsinki; Zylinska at Shandong University in China), and have
received awards for their work (e.g. Curran: ICA Fellows book award; Freedman: ICA best journal
article award; McRobbie: Honorary doctorate, Glasgow University). Our work has influenced major
media arts events (Clayton and Asquith have won several independent film festival awards). 13
leading academic journals in the field are edited by members of the Department including: Body
and Society and Subjectivity (Blackman), Feminist Theory and Photographies (Kember), Culture
Machine (Zylinska), Computational Culture (Fuller), International Journal of Cultural Studies
(Madianou), European Journal of Cultural Studies (Saha), Middle East Journal of Culture and
Communication (Khiabany). Across the Department members sit on a combined number of 95
editorial boards of internationally refereed journals and edit 13 book series for a range of
publishers including Routledge, Bloomsbury, MIT Press, Comedia. Members of the Department sit
on 44 external academic advisory boards; and have been external examiner for over 110 PhDs.

In sum, the Department of Media, Communications and Cultural Studies at Goldsmiths has a
vibrant, thriving and dynamic research environment where impact is a driving force behind all that
we do, not because of the REF, but because we hope to change our mediated worlds for the
better.




                                                                                           Page 17
