Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Gloucestershire

 Unit of Assessment: 34

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit Context and Structure.
 We are practitioners and theoreticians who create and critique film, music and media, and this is
 our first submission. From feminist film theory, through community film making to social justice
 and social media, our 13-member strong unit produces creative work and academic research of
 international standing. Coming from a small base in 2014, our reach has expanded in scope and
 number from Cultural Studies and Film theory (Jennings, Grist, Gardner, Griffiths),which we
 continue to explore (Dolan, Krainitzki, Zinder), to Popular Music Studies (Gardner, Lovett), Film
 practice (Curran, Dryden, Parker, Zinder), transmedia (Dalby, Swift) and journalism (Cable).
 Staff are mainly employed within the University’s School of Media, with others (Swift, Griffiths)
 working in the School of Education and Humanities, and the Academic Development Unit
 (Jennings, Krainitzki). Our associate Reader (Dolan) is a founder member of the AHRC funded
 research centre (Women, Ageing and Media, WAM) and has worked with us for over a decade.

 Our research is driven by two dominant and interwoven interests. First, we write and make films
 about identity, marginality and place. In these there is with a particular emphasis on questions
 around ageing, gender, sexuality, memory and inheritance. Second, we are interested in
 ‘innovation’, in relation to music technology, transmedia and film making practices.

 Our concerns with the margins can be seen in published work on women and ageing (Dolan,
 Gardner, Jennings, Krainitzki), queer film theory (and practice) (Griffiths, Krainitzki, Dryden)
 and documentary film practice (Curran, Dryden, Parker, Zinder). Innovative methodologies in
 digital storytelling and installations drive practice led/ funded project work (Mysty/Gardner,
 Faith/Parker) and innovation as a concept is key to our work in music and transmedia (Lovett,
 Dalby, Swift). Dryden’s work in disability film production has global dissemination; her film Unrest
 was longlisted for the 2018 Academy Awards Documentary Feature category
 http://www.lblfilms.com/about..
 These two strands are ably supported by two channels of internal QR funding, ‘Being Human’ and
 ‘Creative Practice as Research’, which constitute two of the University’s six Research Priority
 Areas (REF5A); meta committees that oversee clusters of UoAs. This funding has enabled us to
 pursue research to successful outcomes via publication and broadcast. Strategies for post 2021
 include interdisciplinary impact projects using VR and immersive technology, pasts and presents
 of Popular Music, feminist and non-binary film practice. There is the potential for us to submit to
 both UoA 33 and 34 in 2027.

 Leadership
 Research Leadership operates at School, UoA and University level through a series of connected
 committees. Decision making at UoA34 level is made in line with University Research Strategy.
 Responsibility for Research leadership flows from the University Research Committee and its 6
 Research Priority Areas down to UoAs. UoA34 has staff in The Media School and The School of
 Education and Humanities. UoA34 benefits from unit funding equally distributed from 2 of these
 ‘RPAs’, Being Human and Creative Practice as Research. Direct leadership implementing
 University Research policy lies at School level for staff and PGR research, with the leaders
 (Gardner for Media School and UoA 34 staff research, Cable for Media School PGR) networked
 into RPA (Gardner) and the university’s central Research administration which lies in the ADU
 (Cable). Both staff sit in a chain of command that feeds up and down from Research Committee
 and Research Degrees Committee.

 Gardner leads and supports UoA 34 and Media School staff research through offering a series
 of research symposia and individual mentoring (bid writing to RPA funds, proof reading copy for
 publication). The UoA 34 pool of staff internally moderate work going forward to publication.


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cable provides PGR research leadership, acting as a lynchpin between central research
 administration which sits in the ADU (Jennings). Research training that is open to all staff across
 the university (supervisor training, managing distance learners etc.) is funneled to the Media
 School through him and he receives all PGR applications via the Research Administration office
 and funnels them through the Media School Senior Management Team for assessment on
 supervisory capability and allocation. 50% of the staff submitting to UoA34 supervise PGR
 students. The Media School Senior Management Team scrutinize applications for small blocks
 of research leave, conference participation, bid for from QR funds allocated by the RPAs Being
 Human and Creative Practice as Research. This team does not scrutinise research outputs; the
 UoA34 group do this.

 Research Themes
 Our theoretical work and creative practice centres on the themes of marginality and innovation.
 The Women Ageing and Media research centre (established 2007) is a key feminist centre
 interrogating the nexus of aging and women’s lives. Internally and outward facing, it has an
 established international summer school, international networks (ACT, NANAS, ENAS) and
 Gardner, Jennings, Dolan and Krainitizki are well published in this area. Curran’s film work also
 explores aging and death through female experience. Dryden’s internationally acclaimed
 documentary films (Unrest, 2018, Trans in America, 2019) bring the margins to the centre through
 a methodological film praxis which centres on the disabled and the queer at the productive helm,
 Swift and Dalby’s considers transmedia and audience and Lovett, music, the blockchain and
 philosophy; both are part of current academic debates around new innovations in media
 technologies. Zinder and Parker’s documentary film work centre on cultural heritage and identity
 and marginalised voices within those narratives.

 Financial support for this work comes from the RPA ‘Creative Practice as Research’ established
 in 2019 to support creative critical work emerging from the School of Art as well as The School of
 Media and supports UoA 34 and 36. Staff working on filmmaking (Curran, Dryden, Parker,
 Zinder) and transmedia (Dalby) can bid into this fund as well as from ‘Being Human’.

 Institutional Research Environment
 The University of Gloucestershire has a strong PGR research environment with high PRES ratings
 for tutor support and high completion rates. Structured programmes of written work in the first year
 of enrolment (see institutional statement), PGR symposia, research workshops and journal
 subscriptions are all fundamental to the PGR experience. Around 2014, students in UoA34 were
 predominantly Film and Media Studies students and/or those attached to WAM (Women, Ageing
 and Media). With new staff, the unit now includes Creative Practice Research students in film and
 music. Specific examples of a thriving research environment within the UoA include an
 international summer school, and an annual Media Festival. For twelve years the WAM summer
 school has steadily built up an international reputation and consistently attracts international
 delegates. Work has been undertaken within the unit to foster an inclusive research culture.
 Gardner launched a research event called ‘Equal Platforms’ in 2015; guest speakers, staff and
 students shared a ‘platform’ and presented papers, work in progress and dissertation/first class
 essay content. Academics were invited from BCU, UWE, Leeds, LCM, Loughborough to deliver
 papers on issues that resonated with the Unit’s research themes. The series is now incorporated
 into the annual Media Festival, where industry speakers are invited to talk. Griffiths pioneered an
 annual PGR symposium called Hidden Narratives, where PGR students and staff deliver papers.
 These initiatives illustrate the wider contribution to the intellectual life of the school that the UoA
 fosters. Our proactive research culture is resulting in more staff bidding to research funds, more
 staff enrolling on Masters or PhDs and more staff joining research teams as audio or VR advisors.

 Erasmus+ funding has shown staff how productive project team work is. One staff member who
 was on a project as video editor, has since enrolled on a Master’s in Education. BBC producer
 Julia Hayball has been audio expert on two Erasmus funded projects (www.mysty.eu and
 www.mamumi.eu).
 Further Strategies for development include a) ongoing institutional support for conference
 attendance and funding from the Research Priority area funds; staff that have benefitted from

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 this support will be in scope for 2027; b) Media School Workshops on the REF (given by Gardner
 in 2018 and 2019) acted to demystify the external research and funding culture to staff new to
 research (and exemplify the research leadership in the UoA); these workshops have been
 virtually rolled out across the University for PGR and staff c) Unit staff are encouraged to embrace
 bidding culture with the support of Gardner and the University Funding Office.

 Strategies for funding
 Our strategies for funding the unit centre on using our internal QR funds to develop new research,
 support publication projects and to bid for external funds for community media projects.
 The point of our funded research has always been to make a difference and this can be seen in
 our impact case studies. Work is now underway to search out funding streams around community
 impact, marginality and innovation that are not reliant on European funding sources. To date
 there is the potential for interdisciplinary work where UoA34 staff contribute a media/music
 element to large scale projects.

 Impact Strategy
 Our impact strategy revolves around making a qualitative difference to people’s lives by listening
 and telling stories. Dryden’s impact is notable for having had considerable exposure within and
 beyond the film industry. Core to her mission is the narrating of stories made by and for differently
 abled people and marginalized communities. Unrest (2018)’s director was a wheelchair user with
 ME and was long listed for an Oscar for Feature Documentary. It generated conversations in the
 medical establishment about the treatment of the condition. Her film Trans in America won an
 Emmy and was screened at SSXW in 2019. Her work is addressed in our ICS studies. Another
 producer, Parker, worked on Faith, an installation piece on cultural and religious diversity that
 has toured internationally. Some of it was vandalised in its Gloucester cathedral space, having
 generated hostile responses from fundamentalist Christians. These outputs continue our
 research into marginality, specifically non-normative sexualities, disabilities and, in Parker’s
 case, religious expression.

 Away from film, our funded research projects focus on participatory media and ‘marginalized’
 communities, many of which use (digital) storytelling as a methodology for inclusion. We used
 digital storytelling to reconfigure pedagogic approaches: the My Story project (CS1
 www.mysty.eu), developed intergenerational working partnerships with Gloucestershire veterans
 on the Age UK Veterans’ Voices project www.veteransvoicesglos.co.uk, (2018-2020) and used
 digital storytelling as an impact gauging tool with participants on the GEM project. We adapted
 digital storytelling methodologies to work on a further Erasmus + funded project called Mapping
 the Music of Migration www.mamumi.eu. (2019-2021). We also developed free to access e-
 learning systems for low skilled refugee, asylum seeking and migrant women at
 www.medlitpoj.eu (2017 – 2019).

 A notable strand of our work is led by Dr Jason Griffiths, Senior Lecturer at University of
 Gloucestershire. Griffiths is Principal Investigator and Co-director of Reading the Forest, Co-
 director of Voices from the Forest, editor of the Potter Matters website, and is a member of the
 Foresters’ Forest Community Stakeholder Group. From 2007-2019 he was Radio Production BA
 Course Leader at the University and a PhD candidate in English, where he competed his thesis
 in 2019. His work has been funded by the Heritage Lottery Landscape Fund and a variety of
 outputs have characterized this research, all underpinned by community engagement and
 representation. In 2015, working with Dr Hannah Grist (at the time at University of
 Gloucestershire) and Dr Joanne Garde-Hansen of University of Warwick, in partnership with the
 British Film Institute (BFI) and Dean Heritage Centre (DHC), Griffiths conceived, designed and
 organized this community research, exhibition and screening event based around the film
 location of Potter’s 1968 Wednesday Play A Beast With Two Backs. In 2018, A Fortunate
 Man…revisited 50 years on was a three-day long Reading the Forest event across two
 locations focused on John Berger and Jean Mohr’s ground-breaking study of a rural GP and his
 patients in the Forest of Dean, published in 1967. The main event was held in the village at the

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 centre of the book. A series of digital stories were recorded in the community, and workshops
 were undertaken with the local primary school – all generating content for the exhibition. The unit
 benefits from the continuing working relationship with Griffiths and is testament to its dedication
 to maintaining research links.

 Local and national PSB broadcast outputs in relation to Griffiths’ work are as follows:

 BBC Radio 4:                 ‘Tongue and Talk, The Dialect Poets: The Forest of Dean’, 30min
                               feature documentary (5th September, 2020)

 BBC Television:               Inside Out West, ‘Forest Dialect’, 10min feature including fully
                               staged public performance of rediscovered dialect pla (9th March,
                               2020)

 BBC Radio Gloucestershire: ‘100 Years of Forest of Dean Literature’, 18-episode feature-series
                             (April – October, 2019).

                               ‘Female Forest Authors’, 10-episode feature-series (Marhc – May,
                               2018).
 BBC Radio 4:                  ‘A Fortunate Man’ radio drama, contribution of clips for closing
                               sequence. (27th June, 2020)

 2. People
 UoA 34 Staffing strategy is focused on a productive alignment between research and
 undergraduate teaching; unit members teach material they are actively publishing on and
 creating. From a small pool of staff with doctorates in 2014 (4), the present staff base recruited
 into Sports Journalism, Television Production and Popular Music means that 7 have doctorates,
 1 is close to completion and 1 is starting.

 UoA 34 Staff Development
 Mentoring is a vital activity within the unit, with more experienced staff working to mentor both
 students through to completion and staff to publication and/or broadcast. We encourage junior
 staff to produce and disseminate their research through conference attendance and publication.
 Dalby, new to research in 2016, is co-editing a Routledge edition on transmedia and is now
 enrolled on a PhD with Media and Education. As the critical mass of research active line
 managers grows, so does the ability to lead by example. Lovett and Curran have been
 supportive in this respect; they are line managers with research interests in music philosophy
 and feminist experimental film and sound art.

 All UoA 34 staff work within a Workload Allocation Model. This integrates teaching duties,
 administration and research. The model allows for 185 hours (5 weeks) for ‘Research and
 Scholarly Activity’, which includes doing peer reviews, keeping up to date with the discipline and
 ‘small pieces of non-funded research’. In addition to this time allocation, QR funding has been
 allocated to staff to be bought out of module delivery to complete outputs (Griffiths, 2018,
 Lovett, 2019). Gardner secured a semester sabbatical from the Being Human RPA (September
 2018 – January 2019) to write ‘Ageing and Contemporary Female Musicians’ (Routledge, July
 2019) and Curran won a bid to complete a film project called ‘Skip’ for a sabbatical from the
 same RPA for Semester 2 2021 (February 2021 – July 2021).

 Research Students
 From a small pool of PGR students predominantly associated with the Women, Ageing and
 Media research centre, the Unit now has increasing numbers of PGR students in film practice
 and more recently, music composition and sound studies.

 Media School undergraduates wishing to continue their studies at postgraduate level, the Media
 School now has MA programmes in Creative Music Practice (2018), MA Communication, PR


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Media (2018), Animation (2020), Film Making (2020), MA Sports Communications and
 Digital Media (2021) and a distance learning Screenwriting MA (2021). There has been a
 marked increase in supervisory capacity due to recruitment strategy and staff not in scope for
 2021 are mentored by staff with two completions in supervisory teams of three to capacity build
 (Crouch, Friend, Tillotson). Opportunities are also available for PhD students to gain teaching
 experience at PGR Masters level. This is scaffolded by the relevant module tutor, so that those
 who are new to teaching can gain confidence in a supportive environment underpinned by
 critical and reflective practice. Studio facilities are available for PhD Practice as Research
 students. There is no dedicated PGR room but the UoA34 open door policy ensures a buoyant
 and welcoming community. A PGR Facebook site and regular centrally held zoom sessions
 maintain community through digital means and so has been Covid 19 resistant.

 Cable, the School PGR lead (2019 – present), works with the central University Research
 Administration Office on the application, interviewing and admissions of PGR students. In the
 early stages of their projects, all PGR students complete a minimum of two research-training
 modules at Masters level. PhD students also have access to a broad range of academic and
 vocational training, including all of the professional development activities provided for academic
 staff by the ADU. Moodle, the University intranet system is used by supervisors and their
 supervisees in order to record student meetings, including progress that has been made, and
 action points. In addition, members of each supervisory team complete an Annual Progress
 Report, identifying training needs and logging progression. These measures ensure the support
 needed at early stage study and help shape the project.

 The University’s Academic Development Unit organises an annual PGR conference, and
 together with the annual Women, Ageing and Media Summer school, students are exposed to
 opportunities to engage in specialist research training and present their work at various points
 throughout their enrolment. Conference attendance is supported for all research students. PGR
 students are eligible to apply for research expenses covered by the University to the value of
 £300 per annum for full-time students and £120 per annum for part-time students. Further
 funding is accessible via discretionary bids to the University Research Degree Committee.

 UoA34 Doctoral Completions, supervisory team, title

 2020 Lisa Buehring (Jennings and Grist) ‘The Wild, Wild West: No Country for Old Men, or
      is it?
 2019 Alison Willmott (Jennings and Grist) The experience of ageing for women who
       identified with Punk Music.
 2017 Anthony Hogg (Gardner and Griffiths) Can’t Buy Me Love” to “How Deep Is Your
       Love?”: A Chronological Analysis of Developments in the Functions of Pop Music in
       U.K. and U.S. Film of the 1960s and 1970s.
 2016 Kate Latham (Saguaro and Gardner) The Novel and Dementia
 2015 Hannah Grist (Garde-Hansen and Jennings) Media Heritage and Memory in the
      Museum: Managing Dennis Potter’s Legacy in the Forest of Dean

 Research student data
 There are 9 current PGR students in the unit (FT x 4, PT x 5). Their work can be divided into two
 disciplines, film and music, theoretical and practice.

 Film theory and practice
 Mathew Lopez-Bland (Crouch and Friend) Writing Screenplays for Animation; Narrative Over
 Motion

 Mark Volker Zdunnek (Griffiths) Altruistic filmmaking“ vs. commercial filmmaking: technological
 and stylistic devices and differentiators in altruistic films to make charity missions happen.

 Knudsen (Jennings, Symonds, Tillotson) Generation X


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 R Tusar (Griffiths) 'Visual Effects (VFX) in film: Greenscreen/Bluescreen' DEREG

 Music theory and practice
 Robin Owen Frederick Dymond, (Lovett, Gardner, Reeder) A study of style and the
 composition processes used by Michael Kamen.

 Matt Deegan (Lovett, Gardner, Reeder) Generative sound design and music composition.

 WAM students
 Carolyn Coyle (Jennings and Grist) A Poetic Inquiry of Older Women’s Perspectives on the
 Social Construction of Ageing in Irish Society

 Others (working with staff now left the unit)

 M Krenz () Modern Museum Makeovers and the Orchestration of Cultural Narratives: Museum
 Experiences of US-Visitors to Kunstgewerbemuseum Berlin.

 Dandi Supriadi (Gardner and Cable) Journalism Culture Shift in the Development of New
 Media: The Practice of “Curation Journalism” passed April 2020 second viva, minor
 amendments, due April 2021.


 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY

 Equality, diversity and inclusion are intrinsic not only to the values of the University as a whole,
 but also to UoA34. The University of Gloucestershire was shortlisted for its outstanding
 contribution in the Times Higher Education ‘Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Awards’ in 2020.
 The University in a signed letter from the Vice Chancellor in 2019 endorsed the institutional
 commitment to the aims of the Athena Swan Charter and it adheres to the Charter’s principles in
 its support for and the advancement of gender equality across the institution. The University is
 taking action to narrow the gender pay gap across all grades of staffing through its Gender
 Paygap Action Plan. In addition, it has introduced a number of practices to facilitate gender
 inclusivity in its day-to-day activities. One of the most important examples of this is reflected in
 the way that the university supports working parents / guardians, staff and students with
 childcare responsibilities, most of whom are women, by timing the start of the working day from
 9.15. This provides time for drop-off at school and childcare before teaching and meetings start.
 This policy also has environmental benefits by providing for more sustainable commuting
 opportunities that avoid the morning rush-hour peak traffic flow. Working parents / guardians are
 provided with the opportunity to select flexible working hours to meet their childcare needs.

 The University provides specific mechanisms to promote the on-going support and mentoring of
 female and early career members of staff and other under-represented groups, as reflected in its
 Women Professors Group, Women’s Network, BAME Network and Early Career Network.
 Jennings is one of the founder members of and sits on the Women Professors Group, which
 has an explicit remit to support and mentor female academic staff in their career progression and
 promotion. The Women Professors Group actively seeks to rectify the gender imbalance
 currently evident in senior and executive academic leadership across the sector, as well as in
 areas of access to research opportunities, research funding allocation and publication. In a
 recent example, in collaboration with the university’s Women’s Network and individual members
 of staff, the Women Professors Group organised a series of informal interviews and an open
 online plenary focusing on ‘Women Negotiating Academia: Empowerment and Challenges’ as
 part of the University Festival in 2020. A representative of the Women Professors Group sits on
 the University’s Professorial Appointments Panel and the Women Professors Group is
 spearheading a culture shift in practices aiming towards academic career progression and
 leadership.



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Members of the UoA34 staff team have attended university-wide training programmes on issues
 relating to equality, diversity and inclusion. One example of this is the compulsory unconscious
 bias training for all UoA coordinators, attended by Gardner for Media, with other members of the
 team attending similar training events. At institutional level, Equal Opportunities training forms
 part of the induction programme for all new members of staff and it is also required for anyone
 involved in the selection and interviewing processes for new appointments. All members of the
 UoA34 staff team have been provided on an equal basis with the opportunity to bid for internal
 research funds, to apply in rotation for periods of sabbatical leave and teaching remission, to
 lead and take an active part in impact case study projects and, where qualified, to supervise
 research students.

 The unit’s research activity is firmly allied to activism and policy change with regard to diversity,
 of age, sexual and religious identity. Equality, diversity and inclusion are embedded in UoA34’s
 strategic aims as the specific focus of individual staff research projects, impact case studies,
 impact generation and teaching delivery. Dryden is known for nurturing exciting new LGBTQ+,
 women and disabled storytelling voices, and she centres authenticity, artistry and collaboration
 in her work. A proud founding member of Queer Producers Network and FWD-Doc (Filmmakers
 With Disabilities), Dryden is the 2019 Simon Relph Memorial Bursary recipient, a 2020 BFI
 Vision Awardee and a fellow of BAFTA/BFI Flare and Guiding Lights. In December 2020 she
 was invited to be a BAFTA judge and she is keen to engage with BAFTA voting and policy from
 the inside. The Women, Ageing and Media (WAM) research group secured an Arts and
 Humanities Research Council (AHRC) grant (£30k) in 2007 to run a series of workshops and an
 international conference in order to conduct a sustained investigation into proliferating print and
 screen representations of older women. Film work with faith communities (Parker, Gardner)
 illustrates the unit’s focus on community embedded research.

 Recent appointments to the UoA34 staff team and part-time teaching cover have tended to
 reflect the local demographic make-up, which has more limited ethnic diversity in comparison
 with the national average. As such, staff members make every effort to reflect issues of equality,
 diversity and inclusion in their teaching delivery, personal tutor and supervisory support, and
 research outputs. Dryden and Gardner are active in decolonising the curriculum and as a
 counterweight to the limited ethnic diversity of the staff team, prominent external speakers are
 invited to give guest lectures as part of the annual Media Festival week. Likewise, issues relating
 to environmental awareness, community sustainability and cultural sensitivity are embedded in
 the UoA’s aspirations, values and delivery. This is apparent in our ongoing research projects
 (Griffiths, Gardner, Dryden).

 All members of academic staff on fractional appointments are allocated pro-rata equivalent
 mandatory ‘research and scholarly activity’ hours on their annual balance of duties as set out in
 the Work Allocation Model. Additional hours may be allocated to allow fractional and part-time
 members of staff to undertake funded research projects. Early career academic staff members
 are paired with a colleague who provides on-the-spot mentoring and they are also allocated
 extra hours on their balance of duties to allow for initial teaching preparation and professional
 training.

 The University promotes the welfare of all staff and students through a variety of avenues and
 protects staff and students through the provisions of the 2010 Equality Act. The University has
 achieved Level 2 of ‘Disability Confident’ and is actively working to reach Level 3. This Level
 would identify the University as a Leader. Students with notified disabilities and specific learning
 needs are well supported at University, School and subject level and every effort is made to
 ensure that they are not disadvantaged in their educational access and achievement. Access to
 specialist equipment, ICT hardware and software programmes, guided support and safeguarding
 measures are in place to facilitate the day-to-day work of staff and students with notified
 disabilities. The University took an early initiative during the 2020 Covid-19 lockdown,
 significantly in advance of the formal institutional shutdown, to allow shielding and vulnerable
 staff and students to work exclusively from home, and provided relevant technical support to do
 so.

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The University of Gloucestershire Media School is based at the Cheltenham Park campus and
 includes the three academic groups, Film and Television, Journalism and Communications, and
 Music and Sound that are researching within UoA34. Colleagues in the Academic Development
 Unit (Jennings, Krainitzki) and in Education (Swift, Griffiths, R) are able to use the Media
 School Facilities.

 Between 2014 and 2020, UoA34 researchers and Media School PGR students have benefitted
 from £3.6 million investment into the redevelopment of Media School facilities and equipment. A
 newly constructed film studio was opened in 2016, a 10m wide green screen VFX studio and
 self-operated tv studio were constructed, along with a state-of-the-art mixing desk and a live
 room, two rehearsal spaces, sound lab and dubbing theatres came on stream in 2019. Our
 television studio was enlarged and a new gallery installed during this same period. In addition,
 an £85K ARRI Amira camera and cinematic lenses, professional quality film, TV cameras and
 mobile audio equipment and 36 iPhone based Mobile Journalism kits were introduced. This
 strategic University investment supported the production and post-production work of all Media
 School subject communities aligned to UoA34. These high-quality and flexible facilities underpin
 the furthering of teaching and research activity within the School and its ongoing aspirations.
 The Park campus library also houses the Media School collection and offers additional 24/7
 access. In addition, there is a significant online collection, bolstered by an annual 50 item
 Interlibrary loans allocation that is continually reviewed and enhanced to support off-site working
 and doctoral study. UoA34 staff and PGRs therefore have access to generous work and social
 space, as well as computing, editing, production and post-production and library resources,
 ensuring support for research activity irrespective of location.

 Implementing the UoA’s research and impact strategy has produced a significant increase in
 research capacity and capability. Research income, for example, has grown from no base at the
 beginning of this REF cycle in 2014 to a position where there has been a substantial level of
 secured income and a healthy pipeline. The University Funding Office has provided significant
 guidance, support and direction to foster funding applications. This corresponds with other
 actions taken to widen staff participation in research across the Media School’s academic
 communities, for instance through research allowances within the staff workload allocations, and
 support for attending conferences. As a result, there is a cultural shift and a focus on building
 research income and developing infrastructure and facilities in the UoA.

 Since REF2014, as a core part of the University’s research strategy, the Research Priority Areas
 (RPAs) are used as a mechanism for supporting funding for research including for infrastructure
 and facilities through an annual bidding process. UoA34 is part of the Being Human and
 Creative Practice as Research RPAs, where University funding has been instrumental with
 engaging staff in developing research capacity and capability and generating research income. It
 has resulted in the funding of dedicated equipment for research use, such as laptops, digital
 cameras and voice recorders.

 A series of well-attended workshops focused on supporting research from beginner through to
 funded bid applications were held in 2015, with recurring annual follow-up events. This has
 resulted in publications from staff not in scope this round in popular music studies, animation
 and sports ethics. These individuals are being mentored and supported through the QR RPA
 funding to continue writing for publication.



 Research Income

 The trajectory of our research funding is upwards as can be seen below:

 Total research income for UoA 34 is £267, 662.

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                2014    none
                2015    none
                2016    none
                2017    £66 125
                2018    £95 597
                2019    £59 203
                2020    £46 687

 This income has come from a) EU funding, b) UK charity c) Heritage Lottery Funds and c)
 collaborative doctoral partnerships.

    a) Over the REF period the School achieved over €¾ million income from three major
       funded project applications in successful European Union Erasmus+ funding awards, as
       well as research income from regional projects. Between 2016 and 2019 there were
       three successful bids to Erasmus + funds. In 2016, Gardner was awarded €237,4077 to
       run My Story, digital storytelling for diversity training to be shared with 7 partners. In 2017
       she won €251, 5306 for Media Literacy for Refugee, Asylum Seeking and Migrant
       Women shared with 6 partners and in 2019. In 2019 a further €271, 4837 was secured to
       run Mapping the Music of Migration with 7 partners.

    b) Local funding has backed a digital storytelling project with Age UK Gloucestershire called
       Veterans Voices (£12,600) and Gardner and Livesey (Criminology) produced data for
       Child Friendly Gloucestershire, GCC and PPC, £10,000. Gardner has used digital
       storytelling to gauge the impact of the Going the Extra Mile project with Professor
       Courtney (CCCRI).

    c) A consistent income stream for the unit comes from Dr Jason Griffiths’ extensive work
       on the Forest of Dean Cultural Heritage Research and Public Engagement 2014-
       2020. Between 2014-2020, the projects with Foresters’ Forest have so far secured for
       University of Gloucestershire School of Media an income of £108,380

    d) Jennings has established networks with scholars in Canada and the NANAS and
       secured Income for PGR students through Ageing, Communication and Technology
       (ACT) funds and a collaborative partnership grant, SSHRC (Canada), 2.9 million
       Canadian dollars [2014-2021).

 The growth in research income over this REF cycle is an enabler and multiplier. It has generated
 enhanced expertise in project bidding, management and delivery, and has therefore accelerated
 funding success. Future bidding is targeted at British Council funding, and networks with Russell
 Group institutions towards AHRC funds. The income affords staff time to undertake research,
 enables the employment of additional staffing resources to facilitate core research tasks,
 provides learning resources for teaching and generates outcomes that can be leveraged in other
 research activity. As such, the research income has been instrumental in enabling infrastructure
 and facilities development.

 It is important to stress that the success of funded projects in the unit is testament to our positive
 working relationships between research active staff and those with industry expertise. Audio and
 editing experts have been crucial to Erasmus + projects (Power and Hayball).
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research Base
 Since 2014, there has been a marked upswing in UoA34 members’ contributions to their
 disciplines. This has ensured their contribution impacts at local, national and international level.
 They have participated in peer review (Gardner, Jennings, Lovett), attended conferences,
 organised conferences (Gardner, Jennings), examined PhDs (Gardner, Jennings). Dryden is an
 acclaimed producer and director with both professional and research interests in filmmaking led

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by women, LGBTQ+ people and people with unconventional experiences of the body and her work
 is highly significant for the unit. It is at the forefront of inclusivity and activism in film production. She
 is a high-profile, multi-award-winning producer and a member of the Queer Producers Network (see
 Research Recognition Awards). This trajectory from a small number of theoreticians working
 predominantly in Women Ageing and Media and Film Studies, to a more diverse unit that has
 consolidated and extended its reach into music, journalism, transmedia and creative film production
 is evidence of our culture of inclusivity, our leadership by example and our creation of a welcoming
 research rich environment.

 Research networks
 Our research culture at UoG is internally rich and externally connected. Staff are members of
 international scholarly associations (IASPM, BAFTTS. MeCCSA) and have industry affiliations
 (NAHEMI, BAFTA, Creative England). The longest running research hub is the Centre for Women,
 Ageing and Media (WAM), founded in 2008. This has had externally recognized success in the
 form of previous AHRC, and European Research Council grants (in collaboration with University
 of Maastricht) and also in 2014, with the Canadian Ageing, Culture, Technology (ACT) project.
 ACT was international research collaboration with a focus on ageing, culture, communication and
 technology, aligns strategically with the School of Media and brings benefits in terms of external
 influence, mentoring, expertise and PGR funding such as the successful 2016 bid for a co-
 supervised WAM/ACT/UoG studentship for a PhD in ageing and popular music. This student has
 recently been awarded their doctorate (Wilmott). WAM produces the online peer reviewed PG
 Journal in Women, Ageing and Media (PGWAM) links and hosts the WAM international Summer
 School, whose strategic role is in developing doctoral and post-doctoral development for scholars
 at the University of Gloucestershire and across the European Network in Aging Studies, The North
 American Network in Aging Studies, The ACT partnership and beyond. The outputs of the WAM
 Summer Schools have contributed to the production of the WAM Manifesto which has in turn led
 to WAM researchers contributing to the production of the Charter Against Ageism and Sexism in
 the Media (with the New Dynamics of Ageing research group based at the University of Sheffield
 and Women in Film and the National Union of Journalists). Jennings was Co-Director of the ENAS
 ‘inheritAge’ Research group (2013-7).

 External examinerships/validation panel members
 Staff contribute to the wider academic community in their respective disciplines with ongoing work
 as external examiners. Griffiths, (R), BA Film and Media at the University of Sunderland 2014-
 2018; Jennings, MLitt Gender Studies Stirling University; Lovett, BA (Hons) Music Performance
 and Production, UEL, FdA Creative Music Production and Business, Westminster; Zinder, BA
 (Hons) Screenology Bristol, University of St. Mark’s and St. John’s.

 PhD examinations
 Between 2014 and 2018, Jennings has examined 20 internal and external PhDs and Gardner
 has examined 1 UoG PhD and 2 external PhDs.

 Peer Reviewers (academic/publications)
 Members of the unit are plugged into their discipline’s publications culture as peer reviewers.
 Gardner reviews for journals Popular Music (CUP), Popular Communication, Volume!, Feminist
 Media Studies, Journal of The Royal Music Association and is book proposal reviewer for
 Bloomsbury Academic (New York), and Emerald Publishing. She is on the advisory board for
 Emerald Studies in Popular Culture and Gender, on the judging panel for the IASPM Andrew
 Goodwin Memorial prize (2020 – 2022), and an AHRC networking grant bid lead by the University
 of Sussex (feminist Epistemologies of Popular Music). Griffiths (R) is a regular peer reviewer for
 Routledge, the BFI/Palgrave, I.B. Tauris, Bloomsbury Academic and Intellect and Lovett reviews
 for Concentric: Literary and Cultural Studies journal and Popular Music. Cable reviews for a
 number of journals including The European Journal of Communication and is on the Editorial
 Board for the Football Collective https://footballcollective.org.uk/




                                                                                                      Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Peer Reviewers (grants/academic positions)
 Jennings peer-reviews grant applications for the ESRC, Independent Social Research
 Foundation (ISRF) UK and Carleton University (Ottawa, Canada) and is a Panel Review Member
 for UoG Professorial Board (Applications).

 Conference participation

 Staff regularly attend conferences to network with their discipline associations and present papers
 (Cable, Dolan, Gardner, Lovett; Swift, Zinder). On average, a UoA34 theoretician will attend
 one or two a year. Jennings has given public lectures (Sexism, ageism and ‘late style’: Marianne
 Faithfull and Kate Bush’, University of Gloucestershire Public Lecture Series, May 11th 2017) and
 keynotes (2015 “Older Women and Popular Music: Reflections on Genre and Late Style”, at the
 inaugural North American Network in Aging Studies (NANAS) conference, May, Miami University,
 Oxford, Ohio, USA‘ Popular music, ageing and identities: approaching memory through
 autoethnography’ Institut für Volkskunde/Kulturanthropologie, Universität Hamburg, Germany
 (2015), You wear it well: women, ageing and pop music’, London College of Fashion Public
 Lecture (2014) Series Better Lives on the topic of ‘Ageism in Fashion,' alongside Professor Paul
 Matts (Research Fellow, Proctor and Gamble) [watch the video at Better Lives:
 Ageism http://youtu.be/MsAZ91ROz7A. Gardner has been invited to talk about Ageing and
 Contemporary Female Musicians’ at Birmingham City University on 6/11/19, on Women’s Rock
 Memoirs at The University of Newcastle https://research.ncl.ac.uk/sacs/icmus/seminars/ . She
 delivered the John Bird lecture on ‘Music and Ageing’ at The University of Cardiff,
 http://blogs.cardiff.ac.uk/musicresearch/john-bird-lecture-series/archive/, was on a panel on
 gender, music and dance in November 2017 in Bern at the                Dampfzentrale Arts Festival.
 https://dampfzentrale.ch/festival/tanz-in-bern-2017/ and on a panel in January 2015 discussing
 Englishness and popular culture/arts., Letting England Shake: PJ Harvey and Englishness. In:
 Englishness Rising, 6/01/15,University of Sunderland. In 2014 and 2015, Griffiths (R) was invited
 to discuss his work in Hamburg (Queer Film Culture: Queer Cinema and Film Festivals’ Hamburg,
 14-19/10/2014), Liverpool (Film After Thatcher: Gender and Sexuality in post 1990 British
 Cinema’, Liverpool Hope University 2/7/2014) and San Diego (‘The Coming of Age of LGBTQ
 Studies, Past, Present and Future, April 2015). Cable regularly presents his work on football
 culture, representation and social media, Lovett has spoken on musical technologies,
 improvisation and the Blockchain, Swift has given papers on her exploration of audiences, Zinder
 on women in the Western and Cult TV/Film, as well as his documentary films.

 Research recognition awards

 Dryden’s production work has been recognised by a string of highly prestigious awards. In 2019,
 her short film Trans in America won an Emmy and a Webby. In 2017, her feature length
 documentary, Unrest, was longlisted for an Oscar (feature length Documentary/Unrest, 2017), and
 won at The Sheffield Doc Fest VR (Unrest, 2018) and the River Run Audience Award in the same
 year. Unrest also won the Sundance Special Jury Award for Editing and the Nashville Film Festival
 Grand Jury Award for Best Documentary Feature (Unrest, 2018). In November 2019, she won the
 Relph Memorial Bursary, launched by Creative England and BAFTA, in recognition of her award-
 winning films and activism. In 2020 she is one of the awardees of the BFI Vison awards, which funds
 emerging production companies (along with the producers of Bait and Saint Maud). Zinder’s
 documentary short ‘Signwriter’ was commissioned by The Canals and River Trust, and won
 Directors Choice Award, Black Maria Film festival (2016), Best Editing Los Angeles Film Festival
 and Certificate of Excellence, Canada Shorts. MYSTY, the digital storytelling for diversity
 Erasmus+ project won a ‘best practice’ award (2019).

 b) Contribution to Economy, Society or Community

 The unit has contributed to society and local communities through its documentary film work and
 applied digital storytelling. Dryden’s Trans in America won an Emmy, achieved more than 3.7
 million views, and has acted as an effective platform for activism by and in support of trans
 communities, especially in challenging and conservative settings such as Fox News and the US

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Republican party. It has also acted as a springboard for further activist documentary projects by
 members of the production team. Her work on Unrest ensured that ME was considered by the
 medical establishment (see ICS 1). Zinder’s film ensured the recognition of a way of life in danger
 of dying out on the British canals. Parker, a film producer, worked with local artist Russell Haines
 and Dr Dave Webster (SOAS) to produce a multi-media in Gloucester. A site-specific exhibition
 with work by artist Russell Haines and filmmakers Mike Parker and Rob Daglish, who created
 four films that were integrated within the exhibition opened in January 2017. The exhibition has
 toured nationally and internationally. In mid-January, parts of the exhibition were vandalised
 (https://www.theguardian.com/world/2017/feb/12/vandals-artworks-gloucester-cathedral-
 religions-death-threats).

 Digital storytelling initiatives forged over the last decade have had local impact. This started when
 Professor Joanne Garde-Hansen was at the University. She pioneered work in the field working
 on oral histories of the Barton and Tredworth area of Gloucester. She and Gardner worked with
 Cheltenham Hebrew Community in 2009, producing an oral-history/digital story film for the only
 Jewish festival held in Cheltenham. (Synagogue Lane, 2009;) then a digital story project with local
 primary schools and The Everyman Theatre in 2016 ( My Jewish Storybook,) and recently, ‘In My
 Own Right’ (Zinder and Gardner), a documentary short about two women who run the local
 Orthodox Synagogue (Miami Short Film festival, (2019, Near Nazareth Film festival (2019).
 Gardner used digital storytelling with Age UK Gloucestershire called Joining Forces with local
 veterans of Aden and The Korean War (www.veteransvoices.co.uk). and as a methodology for
 impact assessment on GEM http://www.glosgem.org the CCRI (http://www.ccri.ac.uk).

 Jason Griffiths was Radio Production BA Course Leader at the Media School from 2007-2019
 and a PhD student in English, on the forest’s literary heritage, completing in 2019. Working
 initially alongside Garde-Hansen and Grist, he ongoing work in the Forest of Dean is illustrative of
 our approach to research. He has used capacity building and skills development as key
 elements of both Foresters’ Forest projects (Reading the Forest, and Voices from the Forest).
 This has involved developing strong local networks, and design and delivery of bespoke training
 and one-to-one support for volunteers and the wider community. From the beginning, for both
 projects, Griffiths and Deeks have worked closely with a number of local voluntary sector
 organisations such as the Forest of Dean Local History Society, Forest Voluntary Action Forum,
 Dean Heritage Centre, Heritage Open Days, and Dean Writers Circle. In addition, the planning
 and delivery of events and exhibitions have afforded partner-working with parish councils,
 church groups, local venues, local tourism business, and Gloucestershire County Libraries.
 Reading the Forest in particular has worked with a number of local schools supporting their
 integration of local literature and history into their curriculum. Both projects have generated
 significant engagement from local volunteers in support of research, events organisation, media
 and other aspects of project delivery.

 A hybrid approach has been developed to engage the public in the production and dissemination
 of the projects’ research findings. These have included working closely with regional & national
 media; creating engaging social media content; exhibitions and activities at local events; and the
 staging of a series of bespoke events involving exhibition, screenings, talks and panel discussions.
 https://www.readingtheforest.co.uk/authors.html
 https://www.voicesfromtheforest.co.uk/
 https://pottermatters.weebly.com/




                                                                                              Page 12
