Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Hull

 Unit of Assessment: English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Overview
Our Environment narrative for REF 2014 concluded with reference to our University motto, ‘Lampada
Ferens’ (Carrying the Lamp of Learning) which encapsulated our commitment to providing ‘local,
regional, national, and international outreach with our varied research and rigorous scholarship.’ The
period under review since REF 2014 saw the development of an institution-wide expansion of public
engagement activity, promoting our research with a wider public beyond the University. Our
(research) impact ambition to embed the University of Hull as an anchor institution within a
challenging socio-economic region received a major boost with the award of UK City of Culture in
2017. Many exciting new initiatives, unforeseen in 2014, were thus enabled by this mark of
recognition. During the review period we also experienced a doubling of PhD completions (46.5 in
the UoA) and a 42% increase in external funding. 17.4 colleagues are submitted to REF 2021.

Context and Structure
Organizational change since 2014 has reshaped English into a smaller, more vibrant and cohesive
unit. It was reconfigured as a department with Creative Writing and American Studies in 2018 in the
newly re-named Faculty of Arts, Culture and Education. This has stimulated a renewal strategy in
terms of developing new research structures and priorities, especially for collaborations between
creative writing, literature and language staff. Research, engagement and impact are supported by
research centres: the Andrew Marvell Centre for Medieval and Early Modern Studies, the Larkin
Centre for Poetry and Creative Writing and the Richard Hoggart Centre for Comparative
Cultural Studies. Restructuring has resulted in the updating, broadening and overall concentration
of our research interests around three dynamic research clusters which are making a significant
difference to our research initiatives: ‘Lives’, ‘Environmental Humanities’ and ‘Crime and Gothic’.

a) Research and Impact Strategy
Research Strategy
The Department has its own research strategy which aligns with a Faculty Strategy, and ultimately
the University’s, which is designed to enable and empower researchers to achieve and compete at
an international level. Our strategy builds on the strengths of 2014 in maximizing the external impact
of our research, creating and consolidating synergies with other University of Hull subject areas
(Chemistry, Criminology, Education, Geography, History, Politics, Psychology), Faculties (Science
and Engineering), and Institutes (Energy and Environment; Culture, Place and Policy), and with
external partners (museums, art galleries, theatres, community groups and prisons), leading to
productive collaborative engagement and impact, as well as successful cross-disciplinary grant bids.
Our three research themes fully support these ambitions:

‘Lives’, particularly neglected or underrepresented lives, constitutes a major contribution to our
impact and research. The playwright Dickenson’s impact case study (funded by the Arts Council,
Wellcome Trust and Heritage Lottery) works with marginalised groups (NEETs and women in Rugby
League in Northern England), social arts organizations, theatre companies and museum curators to
enable them to deliver new stories about their life experiences, resulting in two plays by Dickenson
(one co-created). Metcalf’s case study on prison learning demonstrates how creative writing enables
social re-integration, resulting in the publication of Hope Walks By Me (a collection of poems from
ex-offenders). Her impact work with the Learning Together network (launched by the University of
Cambridge in 2015) has further resulted in shared learning between those who are currently
imprisoned and University of Hull students. Wynne (on Lady Butler, funded by the Marc Fitch Fund),
Sanders (Martineau and Oliphant), Mottram (Marvell), Lawrence (Tasso), Perry (fatherhood and
childhood in poetry), Fitzer (eighteenth-century women’s writing), Jones (D. H. Lawrence), McAleer
(AHRC-funded Wayuu community project), Rorato (Italian immigrant communities in Hull), Hunter
(AHRC-funded work with teachers on reflective practice in their writing), O’Mara (nuns’ literacies)

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and Tudor (French medieval life), further form a strong research cluster around Life Writing from
literary, transcultural and creative writing perspectives.

‘Environmental Humanities’
This places Hull at the centre of pressing environmental, regional and global priorities. Led for
English by Mottram on flooding and Farrelly on wind power and plastics, such cross-disciplinary
environmental research is developing a key University priority to tackle ‘global and local priorities’ of
‘environmental flood resilience’ and decarbonisation. Farrelly is Faculty lead for sustainability and
is working with AURA Innovation Centre to unite industry practices to the arts and humanities
in the development of a low-carbon and sustainable future. Farrelly was CI on the £1.1 UKRI
Plastics and Research Innovation Fund (PRIF) award to the University for ‘Evolving a Circular
Plastics Economy’. This was one of the eight funded projects under the Creative Circular Economy
Approaches to Eliminate Plastics Waste scheme. The cross-disciplinary project involved partners in
Chemistry, Psychology, Politics, the Energy and Environment Institute in conjunction with a host of
major industry partners (Morrison’s, Waitrose, Hull City Council, Reckitt Benckiser Health, McCain’s,
P&O Ferries and others). The unit’s recalibrated research focus has recently resulted in Mottram,
in conjunction with colleagues in Geography, securing £1.1 million Leverhulme Doctoral funding on
‘Water Cultures’ (awarded December 2020). Mottram is Deputy Director of the new Centre for Water
Cultures (2021). Goodman’s ‘Client Earth’ project and publications have raised global awareness of
environmental risk through creative writing and environmental law, while Thomas’s work (including
an AHRC-funded ‘Being Human’ exhibition) on Sunk Island in East Yorkshire provides an important
regional dimension to environmental debates.

‘Crime and Gothic’
Staff work across these interlinked areas of research, engagement and impact. American Studies
specialist Metcalf engages at an interdisciplinary level with Criminology (Calverley) and Creative
Writing (Goodman) on prison narratives and the application of co-created learning, bringing together
prison and university learners. Haran’s work on racial miscarriages of justice in the American South
is supported by British Academy funding. Hunter on terrorism post-9-11, Kimyongür on European
crime and Vanacker on female-authored crime novels combine literary and linguistic approaches. A
new MA in Incarceration Studies (convened by Metcalf) is due to be launched in September 2021
(postponed from 2020 due to Covid). Wynne crosses Crime and Gothic (Conan Doyle and Stoker).
Crime and Gothic are benefitting from the recent appointment (December 2020) of Professor-in-
Residence, Clive Bloom, Gothic specialist and editor of Palgrave Crime Files and Palgrave Gothic.
Wynne, Bloom, Corstorphine, Dickenson and Shaw (Education) are mobilising a multi-disciplinary
University-funded ‘Gothic Play’ initiative, in conjunction with British museums and theatres, in a 3D
adventure project designed for school-children with neuro-diverse conditions. Corstorphine
collaborates with Whitby Museum to deliver Gothic-themed creative writing activities to school-
children. Gothic initiatives respond to the Faculty themes of Culture, Education, and Enabling
Communities, and the University of Hull’s key mission to produce research that is distinctive,
innovative and impactful from the regional to the international.

The expansion of international research networking has been enhanced by the Faculty’s
promotion of cross-disciplinary and transnational projects from the Medieval to the Contemporary:
O’Mara co-created an international research and publication network with European and North
American partners on European nuns’ literacies from a multidisciplinary, comparative perspective (3
volumes, 2013, 2015 and 2018); Meek’s research on Early Modern ‘Emotion’ is linked to the Arc
Centre for the History of the Emotions at Perth, Australia; Kaegi was lead organiser of the 7th Biennial
Shakespeare Annual Conference in 2016 held at the University of Hull in Shakespeare’s
quatercentenary; Clare was Visiting Professor at the University of Florence’s Department of
Intercultural Studies (autumn 2016); and McAleer’s educational work with Wayuu communities was
supported by the OWRI/AHRC Open World Research Initiative (2017-19). A further network grant
(awarded by AHRC in March 2020) includes experts on Canadian, Brazilian, Mexican, and North
American and Colombian indigenous literatures and knowledge exchange with indigenous leaders,
individuals and educators.



                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Public engagement is sustained by a vibrant Annual Lecture series. In addition to the Marvell,
Shakespeare and Victorian Lectures, in 2017 English was the proud beneficiary of a bequest by
former Hull English alumna Barbara Canham Turner (1921-2015) to launch a series of annual
lectures in the Arts. This was inaugurated with public lectures by the Poet Laureate, Carol Ann Duffy
(2018), and the Hull graduate singer/songwriter Tracey Thorn (2019). The 2021 lecture will be
delivered by the Afghan-American novelist Nadia Hashimi. The Canham Turner lecture encapsulates
our mission to bring English and the Arts to the public.

During the 2020 Covid-19 lockdown we continued a lively programme of postgraduate research
presentations (organised by Meek, director of postgraduate research). An innovative Learning
Together module for prisoners and University learners was delivered through online platforms by
Metcalf in autumn 2020. One new Centre (Cultures of Incarceration) and one transformed Centre
(Larkin Centre for Poetry and Creative Writing) were developed during the Covid-19 pandemic.
Other external talks and activities, rescheduled from 2020, are taking place in 2021 as communities
beyond the University adapt to video conferencing.

Strategic Aims for Research
Our aims and objectives for 2014-2019 were to:
   a) enhance our international research networks;
   b) embed and maximize the potential impact extended to wider audiences in our research
   projects, making the most of our institutional venues, including the History Centre;
   c) develop larger scale interdisciplinary collaborations within and beyond the institution;
   d) develop and increase our postgraduate research community to reflect more directly our
   research expertise

a) Enhance our international research networks
Although the City of Culture Award in 2017 prompted us to revise our strategic aims of 2014 to
refocus on opportunities closer to home, international networks were maintained and developed in
areas where they related most directly to specific projects. Lawrence and Rorato specialize in
international afterlives and the reception of significant Italian literary/artistic figures from the
Renaissance. In 2017-19, Lawrence co-facilitated the Faculty’s Transnationality Studies Research
strand with Modern Languages, which explores what happens to cultural communication when
shared across international contexts by examining its transformative effects on the culture of
reception, as well as on the culture of origin. McAleer’s work on the European comic novel in
dialogue with Latin American literature has led to field work with bilingual communities, designed to
protect minority cultures and promote interculturalism.

b) Impact maximization
One of our most successful objectives was maximizing impact to wider audiences, through the
impact projects of Dickenson and Metcalf, and events associated with City of Culture, Open
Campus and Tea-Time Talks. The University (a major partner in the City of Culture bid) became a
venue for many of the year’s events, with a follow-on programme including a BBC ‘Contains Strong
Language’ poetry show, exhibitions, book launches, and themed reading groups. Experience of City
of Culture revolutionized our approach to sharing research ideas, in that our focus became more
outward-facing, with a shift from departmental academic seminar series to themed reading groups
and talks for public audiences. Our postgraduate students and academic staff have participated fully
in these events, gaining valuable experience in disseminating their research interests widely. The
History Centre hosted exhibitions and talks by Mottram, Thomas and Wynne, while creative writing
events have taken place in the refurbished Middleton Hall and Arts Café lounge.

City of Culture
City of Culture was undoubtedly our strongest spur to research impact maximisation, both nationally
and locally, anchored with seminar series ‘Literature and Place’ (2015), ‘Heritage and Memory’
(2017), and ‘Literary Research in our City of Culture’ (2017-18). Sanders and Salter organised the
‘Big Friendly Culture’ panel event to mark the June 2017 announcement in Hull of Lauren Child as
the new Children’s Laureate: speakers included children’s literature critics and representatives from
the Seven Stories children’s literature museum (Newcastle) and the Children’s Laureate Steering

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Group. In conjunction with the online Oxford Dictionary of National Biography Sanders organised a
panel event, led by Professor David Cannadine, to mark the addition of nearly 40 Hull-associated
names to the ODNB (2017).

The Hull History Centre hosted exhibitions and talks (Mottram on Marvell; Thomas on Hubert
Nicholson and Sunk Island). Wynne and Chapman curated the Dan Billany exhibition at Hull History
Centre (Billany was a Hull writer published by Faber before dying in the Second World War).
‘Reading the Ridings/Writing the City’, a series of talks and an exhibition, celebrated the rich cultural
heritage of Hull and the East Riding, with public lectures on Mary Elizabeth Braddon and Winifred
Holtby (organised by Thomas), and by playwright Richard Bean. A sell-out platform interview with
the Hull-born actor Reece Shearsmith was hosted by Corstorphine. The events were supported by
the City of Culture fund.

A book of commemorative essays, Hull: Culture, History, Place (Liverpool UP), edited by Salter and
McKeon, in conjunction with colleagues from History and Geography, included Thomas’s essay on
Winifred Holtby. Dickenson’s Hull Rises, funded by the British Council, City of Culture Fund, Ferens
Education Trust and the University of Hull impact acceleration fund (HEIF), enabled the articulation
of under-represented voices as the project gathered and disseminated stories of the economic
migrant experience of bread-making in Hull and Poland, from which Dickenson produced the
monologues We All Rise as well as a schools’ education pack. Haran collaborated with Jill Howitt
(Hull School of Art and Design) on Fountain '17 (Kingston Art Gallery and Studio 11, 2017)
(http://www.fountain17.com), a fine art and design exhibition that explored the coincidence of the
centenary of Marcel Duchamp’s ‘Fountain’, an avant-garde work of Conceptual Art, and the
bicentenary of Armitage Shanks, whose parent company, Ideal Standard, is based in Hull. The
project commissioned over thirty artists to produce works for the exhibition in April 2017. Haran, who
co-edited the catalogue, is also co-editor of The Critical Fish, a Hull arts publication, whose Issue 2
assesses City of Culture. Wynne and Chapman collaborated with a local theatre company, Theatre
on the Edge, in recovering Dan Billany, who was awarded one of the Lord Mayor’s Centenary
Plaques in 2017 (Devon Street, East Hull), marking his contribution to the city’s culture and heritage.

c) Develop larger-scale interdisciplinary collaborations
New interdisciplinary connections have proved especially creative, and are changing the dynamics
and direction of our research. Besides the recent ‘Water Cultures’ Doctoral funding outlined above,
Mottram’s AHRC funded work is a collaboration with colleagues in Geography and Environmental
Sciences on an AHRC-funded Creative Industries project (with industry partner, BetaJester), while
his research on Marvell and Flooding also links with the Environment and Eco-literature group.
Starting in September 2020, the group will be collaborating on a £330K AHRC-funded project, ‘Risky
Cities: Living with Water in an Uncertain Future Climate,’ with McDonagh (Geography, Geology and
Environment) as Principal Investigator. Mottram’s role as CI is to lead a strand on ‘Fictions of
Flooding,’ in partnership with Youth and Community groups, including the National Youth Theatre.
Farrelly (as noted on p.2) is CI on a major grant (‘Evolving a Circular Plastics Economy’).

d) develop and increase our postgraduate research community
In the reporting period, we increased PGR recruitment via 3 fully-funded studentship initiatives: the
AHRC-funded Heritage Consortium, coordinated by Hull in partnership with 6 other northern
universities (2013- 2019), resulting in 1 scholarship in American Studies; the North of England
Consortium for the Arts and Humanities (NECAH) (2014-19), established by History at Hull, resulting
in 4 Hull studentships in the UoA; and the Hull-led AHRC Capacity-Building Hull-Huddersfield
Consortium (2011-17) which funded 7 multidisciplinary studentships between the two participating
institutions. One of these (Butcher) was co-supervised by Hull English (Sanders) and History.

REF 2021 PGR completions (averaging 7 a year; 9 in 2019-20) are double those of 2014 (average
3 a year), with the overall size of the PGR community expanding proportionately. In 2014-15 we
admitted 7 new PhD students in English and Creative Writing, raising the total community of doctoral
students in these areas to 22. By 2019-20 our PGR community had increased to 34 and in the 2020-
21 cycle we had a further 6 students with a total of 40 to date. 46.5 students from this UoA’s subject
groups completed their doctorates in this REF cycle. 11 students had their vivas held remotely as

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
candidates, external examiners and staff, with support from the Faculty’s research team, adapted to
Covid restrictions. Although some conference travel grants were available, most of our UK students
were otherwise self-funded, apart from students holding consortium scholarships: Emma Butcher
(AHRC), and Layla Hendow, Rebecca Devine, Alana Ennis and Jade Hinchcliffe, all funded by
NECAH. Andrew Etherington was funded by the Heritage Consortium. We had a sizeable increase
in international students funded by their home governments. Notable successes post-graduation
include a Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship at the University of Leicester (2017-2020), for Butcher
(supervised by Sanders), followed by appointment to a Lectureship in Literature and Cultural
Heritage at Edge Hill University (2020-2022). Two MA graduates have secured fully-funded PhD
scholarships: Lauren Bruce at Nottingham Trent University, and Giorgia Hunt at Dublin City
University: both inspired by Wynne’s Bram Stoker research-based module in the Hull MA.

Publications by former PhD students, individually, and in collaboration with supervisors, have
flourished in the current REF cycle. Rachel Allen became a Faber New Poet in 2014, publishing
Kingdomland (2019). Butcher published The Brontës and War (Palgrave, 2019) and a book chapter
in Charlotte Bronte: The Lost Manuscripts (Brontë Society 2018); Janine Hatter published a co-edited
collection, Fashion and Material Culture in Victorian Fiction and Periodicals (2019); Sue Kennedy
co-edited British Women Writers, 1930-1960 with Thomas (2020); Lesley Harrison has published
five books of poetry, and Maggie Hamand a novel (Virgin and Child, 2020). Former doctoral students
have published essays with (among others) MUP and Palgrave.

Future Strategic Aims for Research and Impact
Our aims for the next REF period are to:

   a) Strengthen our embedded research themes and build new cross-disciplinary collaborations;
   b) Expand participatory research leading to impact that benefits diverse communities, locally,
   regionally, nationally and internationally;
   c) Promote a sustainable, diverse and inclusive research culture, building national and
   international networks within and external to the University;
   d) Further expand and integrate our PGR cohort by promoting our research themes and
   responding to regional challenges

a) Strengthen our embedded research themes and build new cross-disciplinary
collaborations
Our streamlining of research themes will facilitate more purposeful collaborations both within and
beyond the University, and promote a richer doctoral research culture. Building on the recent
successes of Mottram with Leverhulme ‘Water Cultures’, and Farrelly with industry practices and
the arts, English will further capitalize on opportunities (especially regionally) to work with other
disciplines, and extend our expertise beyond traditional research practices in the arts and
humanities.

b) Expand Participatory research leading to impact
Our approach coheres with the Faculty’s research strategy: ‘to become a Centre of Research
Excellence in grassroots, participatory research that benefits the community, whatever its location
or membership.’ We already have considerable practical experience of productive research and
creative work with communities through Dickenson’s collaborations with marginalized groups,
Metcalf’s prison work leading to the publication of Hope Walks By Me and Meek’s research on
sympathy and the emotions, which enabled collaboration with a theatre group to stage Othello in
Hull. Current plans include the development of the 3D ‘Gothic Play’ initiative (Wynne, Corstorphine,
Shaw and Dickenson) aimed at enhancing social and emotional learning for school children with
neurodiverse conditions. Wynne and Meek’s Sympathy and Solace initiative is aimed at local
communities and professionals who work with the bereaved.

c) Promote a sustainable, diverse and inclusive research culture
Plans to strengthen Hull’s research culture and inclusive practices are embedded in the new
Research Strategies drafted at University, Faculty and Departmental level in 2019-20, as well as the
University’s Environment Statement, which commits to upholding our institutional goals of diversity,

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
respect and inclusion. Our staffing gender profile is evenly balanced. The gender ratio of PhD
students in the UoA is 66% female which exceeds the University’s average by 17%. At Departmental
level our theme-led interdisciplinary research strategy is designed to harness existing research
strengths and pool expertise. The Ferens Education Trust has funded projects from colleagues in
the current cycle including Lady Butler (Wynne), Meek’s Othello project and Dickenson’s Hull
Rises, all of which conjoin research with education and public engagement in line with the charity’s
mission to ‘promote the advancement of liberal, professional and technological education and the
diffusion and extension of arts, sciences and learning’ regionally as well as ‘assist the University of
Hull in the objective of providing further education to the national and international community, for
which it was founded.’

d) Further expand and integrate our PGR cohort by promoting our research themes and
responding to regional challenges
English and American Studies are adopting the Faculty’s policy of recruiting students who can be
aligned to a research cluster in their field. ‘Water Cultures’ (CI Mottram), the Leverhulme Doctoral
Scholarships award 2020, will bring 23 new PhD students to the University from September 2021.
Of the 8 new PhDs starting in 2021, 3 will be supervised or co-supervised with English. The MA in
Incarceration Studies will support the growth of PhD research in conjunction with the new Cultures
of Incarceration Centre (launched in January 2021 under the directorship of Metcalf and Mottram),
while our current MA in English and Creative Writing (currently recruiting 35-40 students a year) is
built on staff expertise in key research areas. An average of 4 students convert from our MA
programme to our PhD per year. Teaching links are already active between American Studies and
English (Creative Non-Fiction features on the Incarceration MA, and another module will include
literary texts such as memoirs from the gulag, and Holocaust poetry). American Studies staff also
supervise English Literature PhDs and English Literature staff supervise PhDs in Creative Writing.


 2. People

We are a smaller submission than in 2014, though with higher quality of outputs. Staffing has been
significantly reconfigured, both in response to institutional change, and to scheduled retirements
(Forshaw, Arnold, Clare, O’Mara, Thomas, Coote), resignations (Chapman, Kerr, Salter) and
appointments elsewhere (Wedgwood Clarke to Exeter; Weston to Greenwich; Cockin to Essex). Our
poet-academic colleague David Kennedy sadly died in 2016. Losses have been partially redressed
by new appointments in Creative Writing (Hurst) and English language (Farrelly and Dobson).
Westoby succeeded Goodman as Programme Director for the innovative online MA in Creative
Writing in 2020.

Staffing Strategy
   • Staffing strategy is instigated at departmental, Faculty, and institutional levels. It is responsive
       to cultural change in the sector and University priorities in terms of research and teaching.
   • The department has made two Early Career appointments: Hurst (2019) in Creative Writing
       to support the development of fiction writing; and Perry (2013) supports teaching and
       research in poetry, and the representation of childhood. A Staff Mentoring programme was
       introduced across the Faculty by the Associate Dean for Research in 2017, resulting in some
       fruitful cross-disciplinary discussions, alongside the twice-yearly ‘Research Conversations’
       with the Departmental Research Director which provide a more informal and exploratory
       space for research planning.
   • As part of a wider restructuring programme, the University developed a new Academic
       Careers Framework (ACF, 2019), which is designed to support education, knowledge
       exchange and research excellence. In the new framework, staff are aligned to a domain
       which best reflects their job role. All staff in the research domain are returned to REF.
   • In 2020 a new module training course was launched on the institutional VLE, Canvas, for all
       staff considering applying for promotion.
   • Since 2014 support for planning impact case studies and applying for external grants has
       been provided centrally by the University’s Research and Innovation Office and its specialist
       team of Faculty Research Development Managers and Officers.
                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Staff Development
Substantial documentary support for developing staff research skills is available on the University’s
Sharepoint site: https://share.hull.ac.uk/Services/RI/SitePages/L1%20Related%20Documents.aspx
Within the department, Away Days (usually twice a year) include a substantial session on research
issues, while across the Faculty and institution the Research and Innovation Development Team
provide support for developing innovative research ideas and strategic funding applications. Peer
review of grant applications is arranged by the Faculty. Staff working on our impact case studies
were supported by cross-faculty and international expertise in creative writing, criminology and
psychology.

Research Leave
Research time is built into the institutional workload modeller for all academic staff on contracts
involving research, and there is a rigorous and competitive Faculty process for managing research
leave applications. Applicants may apply at roughly three-year intervals, but must specify realistic
measurable targets that align with the University’s and Faculty’s strategic goals to increase the
number of four-star research outputs, and to facilitate excellent research impact. They require the
Head of Department’s approval before referral to the Faculty’s Research Leave Panel. After their
leave, awardees are required to give a verbal report to a Faculty panel, and a presentation to
colleagues in their department. During the census period research leave was awarded to Clare,
Corstorphine, Fitzer, Kaegi, Meek, Metcalf, Mottram, Thomas and Wynne.

Research Students
As previously indicated, PGR recruitment has increased significantly since REF 2014. The
outstanding success of our taught English Master’s programme has been a major factor in boosting
enthusiasm for further study, generating a vibrant and supportive postgraduate (PGT and PGR)
culture. This in turn benefits from research-informed final year undergraduate specialist modules,
such as ‘Gothic’ (convened by Wynne) which has created a focused pathway from Level 6, through
Master’s to PhD. We currently recruit 60% (2019-20) of our undergraduates onto our taught MA
programme. Entry to the online MA in Creative Writing is performing well, with 22 students in the first
intake (2019) and 21 in the second (2020), drawn from both the UK and internationally.

PGR Training and Facilities
Hull has well-established training and progress-monitoring programmes for all its research students.
All take 60 credits of research skills training provided by the Doctoral College from its Postgraduate
Training Scheme (PGTS). Its core module, The Modern Researcher 1, delivers essential skills,
knowledge and training to all new PGR students, and is designed to prepare them for timely and
successful completion of their thesis. Optional follow-on training, covering the practicalities of impact,
media and public-engagement work, is available via The Modern Researcher 2 and 3 while regular
Writing Retreats are valued by students seeking protected space and time to progress their work.
The Doctoral College also provides a series of year-round skills forums, including viva preparation
workshops.

Personal Supervision
The unit has robust processes designed to ensure three-way dialogue between department-
supervisor-student and works to identify learning needs and research and career development
opportunities. Covid contingency planning has provided additional support and training for staff
through our VLE platform. In English a Postgraduate Director of Studies is responsible for processing
admissions, arranging interviews for all PGR applicants, and appointing supervisors. The University
requires all doctoral students to have a principal and second supervisor, and a minimum of 12
supervisory meetings per year for full-time students, or 6 for those studying part-time. The Doctoral
College trains PhD supervisors. After each meeting students and supervisors jointly complete a
record sheet filed with the Faculty PGR administrator, who is responsible for chasing up any
anomalies. The University operates an annual progress monitoring (APM) scheme overseen
centrally by the Doctoral College.



                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The unit supports Diversity and Equality via the Athena Swan initiative (the institution holds a
Bronze Athena Swan Charter accreditation), and student diversity statistics are monitored centrally
by the University’s Diversity and Equality Committee. Diversity and Equality Training is mandatory
for all teaching staff, and there are Dignity and Respect Advisors available to support both staff and
students. English has been continuously led by women since 2014 (Cockin, Salter, Thomas,
Dickenson) and American Studies was led by Virden and Metcalf at points during this period. Five
members of current female staff are at senior level or above. The REF is led by a female team
(Wynne and Sanders). 50% of female staff in English are returned to the REF which exceeds the
University’s return by 18%. Two female members of staff were awarded Readerships and two were
appointed to Chairs in this REF cycle. The University’s Equality Scheme was published in 2017, and
in the same year the University committed to Disability Confident. It has also joined ECU’s Race
Equality Charter. The University has embedded support for transgender colleagues with training
through Gendered Intelligence and Stonewall’s Diversity Champion Programme and has responded
to the Equality and Human Rights Commission report on Tackling Racial Harassment and the
#blacklivesmatter movement to sustain and promote its commitment to racial inclusion. We actively
welcome students from a wide range of backgrounds and with diverse research interests, many of
them interdisciplinary. Recent PhD students have come to Hull from China, Thailand, South Africa,
Saudi Arabia, Syria, Iraq, India, and the Netherlands, with thesis topics ranging from Philip Larkin’s
Letters to Waste and Value in North American Literature.

Postgraduate Research Culture and Facilities
Postgraduate study space has been reconfigured by the University to encourage students to study
on campus, whether in the library’s Postgraduate Lounge, or bespoke office locations across the
Faculties. PGR students in English and American Studies share a research office located in the
English department, equipped with networked PCs, with nearby kitchen facilities. The Doctoral
College, in partnership with Faculties, co-funds one conference trip per participating student, and
Hardship support is available on application to Central Student Services.

There is a lively postgraduate culture in the department, with many students delivering interactive
sessions for our themed Open Campus Reading Groups and Tea-Time Talks series. A new English
PGR seminar series started in 2019, encouraging students to share ideas and benefit from each
other’s research and publishing experience. Postgraduates have also initiated and organised several
of the department’s conferences and symposia, including ‘The Rise and Fall of Victorian Biography’
(2014) and ‘Nineteenth Century Tyrannies’ (2015). In a joint initiative with the Tolkien Society (2017)
we used the Dennison Centre, a former hospital building now owned by the University, to mark the
hundredth anniversary of the author’s convalescence there from First World War trench fever.
American Studies PGRs Gul Dag and Sandy Mills organised an interdisciplinary conference,
‘(Dis)Connected Forms: Narratives on the Fractured Self‘ at the Wilberforce Institute (2016), while
Hendow was invited to participate in a roundtable on ‘Waste in North American Fiction’ at the
University of California, Davis (2019). Following previous engagements in 2017-18 with the BBC
‘Contains Strong Language’ Festival Jackie Goodman directed 3 pieces of mixed media performance
based on poems by Poet Laureate Simon Armitage, Imtiaz Dharker and Jackie Kay for their 2019
Festival in Hull.

PhD alumni interaction
To maintain the broader sustainability of our research culture, we welcome continued institutional
affiliation for former PhD students, via the University’s Honorary Research Associate scheme, which
also extends their library membership. Vanacker is our Department’s Alumni Engagement officer
which represents a new initiative of engaging alumni with staff research activities. Hatter, now a
commissioning editor for Edward Everett Root Publishers, as well as Programme Manager for the
Hull Doctoral College’s PG Training Scheme, toured her Mary Elizabeth Braddon Centenary
Celebrations Exhibition, ‘Theatre, Crime and Sensation: Mary Elizabeth Braddon, Hull and the East
Riding,’ first at the Hull History Centre in 2015, and most recently at the University of Pescara in Italy;
while Hull-Huddersfield AHRC scholarship-holder Butcher was nominated one of the AHRC/BBC
Radio 3’s New Generation Thinkers (2017). While still a PhD student Butcher curated an exhibition
at the Brontë Parsonage Museum on ‘The Brontës, War and Waterloo’ (2015). Both Sanders and
Thomas have co-published with their PhD students: Sanders a chapter with Butcher on Brontë

                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
juvenilia in Pike and Morrison (eds), Charlotte Brontë from the Beginnings (2017), while Thomas
and Sue Kennedy’s co-edited collection (noted on p.6) was based on a jointly organised Hull
conference.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

External research income for the unit has increased from £316,740 in REF 2014 to £546,826 in REF
2021 (a 42% increase). In this REF cycle funding was awarded to 9 staff from English and Creative
Writing, 2 from American Studies, and 5 from Modern Languages. Sources of funding include the
AHRC, British Academy, British Council, the Wellcome Trust, EU, Arts Council, England, besides
foundations and charities. Goodman’s ‘Client Earth’ from the McIntosh Foundation (£100,385) was
the single largest grant, followed by Cockin’s (AHRC) ‘Searching for Theatrical Ancestors’ (£67,718),
Mottram’s (AHRC) ‘Representing Ruins in English Renaissance Literature’ (£84,694), and
McPherson (Modern Languages) who was awarded EU funding (£54,804). McAleer’s Indigenous
Literatures and Languages project was awarded £35,972 by the AHRC. Kennedy’s ‘Crossing-Over’
project (and follow-on led by McKay) was awarded £39,153 from the British Academy.

Library investment
The University’s Brynmor Jones Library, newly refurbished at a cost of £28m, provides a dedicated
space for PhD students to work in the Postgraduate Lounge. The English book collection occupies
most of the library’s 6th floor, and there are substantial archives shared with the Hull History Centre,
including the papers of Philip Larkin, Anthony Minghella, John Godber, Stevie Smith, and Winifred
Holtby. Other library facilities include the Reading Room (with high demand stock), free hire of
laptops, and bookable rooms for group work. The Library subscribes to many key digital resources
invaluable to our departments, such as ProQuest’s British Periodicals, Cambridge Journals Digital
Archives, Oxford Journals Additional Titles, and Project Muse.

Online platform
The University uses the Canvas VLE at all levels from foundation year to Doctoral finalists. The
Doctoral College runs a site for its Modern Researcher training scheme modules, which allows
students to access seminar materials, including recordings and PowerPoint slides. Their training
scheme assignments are submitted and assessed via Canvas, where they also receive feedback.
Online facilities were significantly expanded for staff and students following the outbreak of Covid-
19.

Impact Acceleration Fund
The University has committed £50,000 to an annual call for impact acceleration applications based
on directly incurred costs up to £10,000 per project to be spent before the end of the following
financial year. Three noteworthy projects to have received university funding are Environment
(Mottram) the Legacies of Loss project (Wynne, Meek, Sanders) and Gothic Play (Wynne and
Corstorphine) which has an educational purpose.

Exhibition, conference and workshop space
We make extensive use of the University’s public-facing spaces, especially the Middleton Hall and
Arts Café, the library’s exhibition space and the exhibition hall and lecture room of the Hull History
Centre located in the Old Town (the city’s cultural quarter). This enables our research to be
showcased at low cost in a significant area of the city, though, as part of our research strategy for
2020 and beyond, we are also taking our research out of the university into public spaces.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

We contribute to the research base and discipline by multidisciplinary and transnational research
from Medieval literature to Contemporary writing (including creative writing). The unit has developed
a rigorous and varied programme of publications, research activities, networks, partnerships and

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
collaborations, focused on enriching our relationships with global academic communities and diverse
publics through our research and delivery of academic keynote lectures, public lectures and media
interviews. These varied events highlight our diversity and intellectual curiosity. We have developed
a rich programme of conferences, lecture series and symposia.

Centres. Centres have helped to support effective research collaborations, generate sustainability
in disciplinary and interdisciplinary research, and respond creatively to the local, regional and global
priorities. There are two active centres in the unit: the Andrew Marvell Centre for Medieval and
Early Modern Studies and the Richard Hoggart Centre for Comparative Cultural Studies. The
Larkin Centre for Poetry and Creative Writing was approved by the University in 2020, following
its transformation, as well as the new Cultures of Incarceration Centre (2021). Work in the
Medieval and Early Modern field, mobilised through the interdisciplinary Marvell Centre, which
encompasses scholarship in Drama, English, History, and Music, flourished under its co-directors
Clare and Bagchi (History). The Richard Hoggart Centre follows Hoggart’s inspiration in breaking
down the distinctions between ‘high’ and ‘low’ art. The Centre’s aim is to continue Hoggart’s
pioneering work on social justice. Hoggart published The Uses of Literacy (1957) during his tenure
at the University of Hull. Under the auspices of centres, colleagues have convened and participated
in national and international conferences and delivered public engagement activities.

Conference Organisation
The following were convened by UoA staff:
Medieval: O’Mara: ‘European Sermons in Manuscript and Print: The Lay Perspective’ at Universiteit
Antwerpen, (2016) with participants from Belgium, England, Germany, and the Netherlands; ‘Early
Printed Bibles, Commentaries, & Sermons in Hull, c. 1470 to c. 1700’, book exhibition of materials
from Rare Books, and the libraries of Holy Trinity, Hull Grammar School, and St. Mary’s Lowgate;
and continuation of the ‘Nuns’ Literacies in Medieval Europe,’ initiated in the previous REF cycle.
Shakespeare: Kaegi, Lawrence and Meek convened the 7th Biennial British Shakespeare
Association Conference at Hull (2016). The University hosted 167 delegates from 23 countries.
Lawrence co-convened a seminar on ‘the Construction of Italy in Shakespeare and his
Contemporaries’ with Professor Michele Marrapodi of the University of Palermo at the International
Shakespeare Association’s World Shakespeare Congress in Stratford and London (2016).
Nineteenth Century to the First World War: Cockin organized the AHRC-funded ‘Searching for
Theatrical Ancestors’ conference, British Library (2016). Thomas and Hanson organised ‘Objections
to War’ Conference at the University of Hull (2014).
Twentieth Century: Thomas and Sue Kennedy inaugurated the British Women’s Writing: 1930-
1960 conference series at Hull (2016). This was followed by conferences at Chichester in 2017 and
2018. Jones organized ‘Lawrence in Words and Music’ at St George’s Church, Bloomsbury, as part
of the 14th International D. H. Lawrence Conference at the New College of Humanities, London
(2017).
City of Culture: Sanders and Salter organized the ‘Big Friendly Culture,’ Children’s Literature panel
event celebrating the announcement of the new Children’s Laureate (2017). Sanders also organized
‘Hull in National Biography’: panel event (Hull), with guest speakers Sir David Cannadine, Sir Alan
Johnson, Professor Jane Ridley, and Dr David Neave.
Yorkshire Geological Society: Sanders collaborated with the Yorkshire Geological Society’s day
conference on literature and geology in the region at the University of Hull (2019), with papers
by Wynne and Thomas.

Academic Keynotes and Plenaries
Medieval: O’Mara: ‘The Vitae of St Birgitta and Syon Abbey: Questioning the Evidence’ at the
University of Leeds; and ‘Saints’ Lives and the Birgittines of Syon Abbey’ at the University of
Stockholm in 2020.
Renaissance: Clare: Keynote lectures at the Globe Theatre: ‘Shakespeare’s Richard II: Playing the
King’ (2015) and ‘“Till Birnam Wood remove to Dunsinane’ (2016). Clare also delivered
‘Transcultural Shakespeare’ at the University of Pisa, Italy (2016). Meek was an invited speaker at
the German Shakespeare Society (2018) where he spoke on ‘Othello’s sympathies.’
Eighteenth Century: Fitzer contributed plenary papers at Theatre Royal Richmond (2016) and
Chawton House Library, Hampshire (2014; 2015).

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Nineteenth Century: Wynne delivered keynote lectures on Lady Butler at the University of Tunis,
(2014) and at the Victorian Popular Fiction Association Conference, Senate House, UCL (2017).
Thomas presented a keynote lecture on Thomas Hardy at the University of Tunis (2014).
American Studies: Metcalf delivered a keynote lecture at ‘American Studies in Europe’, University
of Warsaw in 2018.
Creative Writing: Goodman presented on Client Earth (co-written with James Thornton) at the
Cambridge Literary Festival and co-delivered ‘Antidote Event - Justice for the Planet’ with Thornton
at Sydney Opera House (2017).

Research-led Public Engagement and Impact:
Our research and impact for 2021 and beyond subscribes to the Faculty’s strategy to ‘enable
communities,’ and develop impact in diverse communities and audiences.
Impact: Metcalf’s impact work on creative writing in prisons is connected with the national Learning
Together network and HMPPS, bringing together diverse learners from prison (HMP Hull) and prison
services (Humbercare) with university learners. In response to the Covid-19 pandemic Metcalf
delivered the module online and devised a series of ‘Thinklets’ for the Learning Together network.
She also edited, with novelist and poet Russ Litton, a collection of poetry and prose from ex-
offenders. Hope Walks by Me was nominated by the cultural commentator Bonnie Greer as her
‘seasonal book’ in the Financial Times (November 2019). Greer lauded the work as ‘clear, direct and
powerful’. Dickenson, as playwright practitioner, worked with psychologist Giuliana Mazzoni, to
harness ‘memory science’ in enabling marginalised groups to voice their experiences. Dickenson
formed regional and national connections with social arts organizations (Space 2), Rugby Football
League, training providers (Hull Training and Igen Training) theatre companies (Park Bench) and
curators (Social Museum and Art Gallery).

We delivered a wide programme of research-led public engagement activities.
Medieval: O’Mara: a University of Leeds public lecture (2018): ‘Saints’ Lives in Medieval English: A
Detective Story over Five Centuries’.
Shakespeare: Clare ran a specialist session on Richard II for the Globe Theatre’s Education study
day (2015). Kaegi organised the Ferens public lecture series on the theme of ‘Shakespeare and Art’
to mark Shakespeare400 and delivered an Open Day Public Research Lecture for the Shakespeare
Institute Birmingham (2016). Meek’s work on sympathy and emotion in Shakespeare has led to his
working with Tribal Soul Arts Theatre Company to bring ‘The Gospel of Othello’ to communities in
Hull (2019) as a follow-on from Shakespeare400 celebrations. In 1826, Hull hosted the first black
actor, the American-born Ira Aldridge, to play Othello. This was highly significant in a city then deeply
associated with the anti-slavery movement. As part of our commitment to public engagement Meek
also organised a public lecture series comprising six lectures on ‘Literature and the Emotions’ at the
University of Hull in 2015 to a combined audience of 250 members of the public.
Marvell: Mottram featured in a series of short films on Marvell for All Saints’ Church, Bolton Percy
as part of the church’s Heritage Lottery funding. He curated ‘Andrew Marvell: Made in Hull’, a public
exhibition from November 2015 to January 2016 at Hull History Centre (as part of an AHRC grant).
‘Rebuilding Marvell’s Hull with Minecraft’ was Mottram’s workshop for teenagers for Being Human:
A Festival of the Humanities.
Gothic: Wynne was an expert panellist on ‘Bram Stoker and the Making of Dracula’, British Library
(2017). Corstorphine developed an eco-Nature public engagement series (the University of Hull’s
Tea-time talks, 2019), and was an invited speaker at Horror Expo Ireland (2016) and at Sheffield Off
the Shelf Festival (2015). He ran a Gothic Script reading group at Stephen Joseph Theatre (2019).
Creative Writing: As part of the ‘Crossing Over’ project (initiated in the previous REF cycle) McKay
ran a Death Café, a Creative Writing and Archaeology workshop, and co-edited (with French) End
Notes. She also read from Endnotes and delivered a talk to the ‘Death and Mourning in Fiction’
seminar group, Sociological Studies, University of Sheffield. Vanacker co-led ‘Objects as Untold
Stories: Exploring Material Aspects of Relationships at the End of Life’ at two workshop events at
Rotherham Hospice (2014; 2015).

Radio, Television and Print Media
Staff participated in a number of prestigious radio and television programmes in their research
specialisms and were interviewed and published in leading newspapers and journals.

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Sanders was guest expert on Harriet Martineau (2016) and Thomas on William Morris
       (2018) and Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein (2019) for BBC Radio 4’s In Our Time with Melvyn
       Bragg.
   •   Wynne was guest expert on the BBC World Service (The Forum, with Bridget Kendall) on
       ‘Arthur Conan Doyle: The Man Behind Sherlock Holmes’ (2017).
   •    Mottram and Clarke were interviewed on BBC Radio 4’s Ramblings with Clare Balding
       discussing Marvell’s ‘Upon Appleton House’ for National Poetry Day.
   •   Goodman and Thomas were interviewed on BBC Radio 3 Free Thinking (2019).
   •   Goodman spoke on Client Earth for BBC Parliament’s Booktalk interview.
   •   Thomas appeared on BBC Radio 3, Contains Strong Language, in conversation with
       Matthew Sweet, Dr Katie Cooper, and MP Rachel Reeves on Landmark: The Yorkshire
       Feminist Winifred Holtby (2019).
   •   Dickenson was interviewed on Radio 5 Live by Nihal Arthanayake on public speaking
       (2019).
   •   Wynne was interviewed about Bram Stoker in Whitby on Books that Made Britain: The
       Yorkshire Coast for BBC 2 television in 2016 and Thomas spoke on Winifred Holtby on the
       same programme, which was presented by Wedgwood Clark.
   •   Thomas appeared on BBC 2 television’s Great British Railway Journeys in conversation with
       Michael Portillo (2016).
   •   Wynne was interviewed on Irish Radio (Newstalk) on Lady Butler (2019), and also published
       an article on the painter in The Irish Times (2019).
   •   Mottram was interviewed in the Guardian on Marvell and cholera (2020).
   •   Goodman was profiled in Granta Magazine in 2017 (‘How to fight climate change’).
   •   Dickenson garnered extensive radio, television and print media interest for REF! (her
       collaborative work with women in Rugby League and her play about Julia Lee, one of Rugby
       League’s first female referees) with interviews and coverage on BBC World Service, ITV
       (Yorkshire), BBC Radio Humberside, BBC Radio Leeds, Pulse Radio, BBC News online,
       Yorkshire Post, and several regional newspapers.

External Research Networks, Editorial, Advisory Board memberships, peer reviewing and
external examining
The AHRC-funded research network ‘Crossing Over’ project was initiated by Kennedy, followed by
McKay. McAleer is currently running an AHRC funded research network (2020-2022) on Indigenous
Literatures and Languages in the Americas: Translanguaging and Education in Global Contexts
(£35,972). Sanders collaborated on The Selected Works of Margaret Oliphant with Professors
Joanne Shattock (Leicester) and Joanne Wilkes (University of Auckland). With Shattock, Wilkes and
Professor Kate Newey (Exeter University) she is co-editing a 4-volume set on Nineteenth-Century
Literary and Cultural Criticism. Sanders’ volume on Life Writing fits our key research theme: Lives.
Mottram is editor (with Professors William Hamlin (Washington State) and John Roe (York) of The
Literary Encyclopedia (early modern English and Welsh literatures, 2016-). Corstorphine was an
invited speaker at the launch of the Irish Network for Gothic Studies (2017), of which he is a member.

Staff serve on the editorial boards of a number of journals and book series: O’Mara for SERMO:
Studies on Patristic, Medieval and Reformation Sermons and Preaching: Clare for the Journal of
Early Modern Studies); Wynne for Palgrave Gothic; Corstorphine for Gothic Nature Journal;
Thomas for Victoriographies and Thomas Hardy Journal; and Jones for the Journal of D.H.
Lawrence Studies and Etudes Lawrenciennes. Coote is Chair of the editorial board for Medieval
Identities in Socio-Cultural Spaces (MiscS), Brepols Publishers and is co-general editor for Outlaws
in History, Literature and Culture, Routledge (from 2015); Vanacker is a book review editor for The
Journal of Gender Studies. Staff are also on advisory boards: Meek (Palgrave Studies in Affect
Theory and Literary Criticism); Wynne (Journal of Literature and Science). Peer Reviewing: Mottram
is peer reviewer for the UKRI. Staff serve as external peer reviewers for the following academic
journals: Seventeenth Century Studies; Modern Philology; Early Modern Literary Studies; Modern
Language Review; Shakespeare; EMLS; Renaissance Studies; Journal of Victorian Culture; Studies
in the Novel; English Literature in Transition, 1880-1920. Staff reviewed book proposals and
typescripts for academic publishers: Bloomsbury; Cambridge University Press; Clemson University

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Press; Cornell University Press; Edinburgh University Press; Medieval Institute Publications of
Western Michigan; Palgrave Macmillan, Manchester University Press; University of Pennsylvania
Press. In the census period, staff have externally examined doctoral theses: Clare (KCL, Federal
University of Rio de Janeiro, Shakespeare Institute, University of Birmingham); Coote (Leeds Trinity,
Cardiff) Goodman (Brunel, Open University, Swinburne University of Technology, Australia); Jones
(Loughborough); O’Mara (Université de Poitiers); Sanders (Exeter, Leicester, UCL, Nottingham,
Oxford); Thomas (Newcastle University, New South Wales, Australia); Wynne (Aberdeen and
Exeter); Vanacker (UCL).

Visiting Fellowships, Professorships, Advisory Appointments and Honorary Fellowships:
Clare was Visiting Professor, Department of Intercultural Studies, University of Florence (October -
November 2016); Meek held an International Visitor Fellowship with the Society for the History of
Emotions (SHE) at the Universities of Western Australia, Perth and Sydney (April 2017); O’Mara
holds a Visiting Research Fellowship in the Institute for Medieval Studies (School of History), Leeds
(2019-). Dickenson was Chair of Middle Child Theatre Company (2017-18) and Interim Chair of Hull
Truck Board (2016-17); Dickenson was a commissioned playwright on Graeae Theatre
Company's Write To Play programme (October 2015 - November 2016). Thomas acted as
Consultant, Wessex Museums Partnership to advise on four Hardy themed exhibitions (2019).
Sanders has been an Honorary Fellow of the English Association since 2004, and since 2014.
Goodman and Mottram are RSA Fellows.

Prizes
McKay’s crime novel Hard Wired (2016) was winner of the Northern Crime Competition. Goodman
and James Thornton, an environmental lawyer, won the Judge’s Choice, Business Book of the
Year in 2018 for Client Earth: Building an Ecological Civilization (Scribe UK, 2017) and the Green
Prize for Sustainable Literature from Santa Monica Public Library, USA (2019), a recognition that
cross-disciplinary (creative writing and environmental law) research at Hull is engaging with global
audiences.




                                                                                            Page 13
