Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 0B   Institution: University of Aberdeen

 1B   Unit of Assessment: 28 (History)

 2B   1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview

 Since 2014 History and History of Art (HHoA), part of the interdisciplinary School of Divinity,
 History and Philosophy (DHP), has refocused and extended its significant clusters of
 expertise across medieval, early modern and modern history in pursuit of Aberdeen 2040, the
 University’s strategic plan and its four guiding principles of interdisciplinarity, inclusivity,
 sustainability and international outreach. In this spirit, it has launched significant new
 interdisciplinary initiatives and international collaborations from its strong disciplinary base. It
 has consolidated strengths in Scottish-Irish and Enlightenment Studies and in nineteenth-
 century history. The Unit has used bequests and University strategic funding to extend its
 staffing beyond its traditional focus on Scottish, Irish and European History into Asia, Africa,
 the Middle East and Jewish history, launched a major restructuring in History of Art and
 improved its gender profile. It has maintained a high level of scholarly production during the
 cycle, publishing 13 authored books, four edited books, three research databases, two
 scholarly editions, 39 journal articles and 50 book chapters and has communicated its
 research to government and public bodies, community groups and a wider public, developing
 collaborations with museums in the UK and abroad. It completed or substantially advanced
 four major projects begun in the last cycle: on Law in the Aberdeen Burgh Records 1398–
 1511 (Armstrong); the major series on Russia’s Great War and Revolution, co-edited by
 Heywood, which published 15 volumes between 2014 and 2020; Geddes’s Leverhulme-
 funded project on the Buildings of Aberdeenshire and Moray and the Scottish Catholic
 Archives Project (Barr), which has expanded beyond its initial focus to become the
 international Catholic Memory project, networked across the UK, the USA, Italy and
 Australasia.
 With 26.5 full time equivalents (FTEs), HHoA has devoted particular attention to the nurturing
 of Early Career Researchers (ECRs), through junior appointments and the expansion of its
 postdoctoral community. It has maintained its growth in PGR students, with 44 FTE
 successful completions compared with 31 in the last cycle and 18 in the previous cycle, a rise
 of 42 percent on 2014, and of 72 percent on 2008. There are currently 66 PGR students
 under supervision, including 19 distance PGRs (29%), following a successful initiative to
 extend the expertise of the Unit’s supervisors to a new and diverse body of students through
 the provision of online supervision (a development, which predates COVID-19 restrictions).
 The Unit secured external funding over the period totalling GBP2,445,363 or GBP92,278 per
 FTE. DHP’s commitment to the principles of equality and diversity was recognised by a
 Bronze Athena Swan award; it is working towards Silver.
 HHoA has contributed substantially to the research culture of DHP and the wider university.
 Brown is Dean of Research Governance and Cultural Strategy, with responsibility for the
 University’s submission to REF Panels C and D; Morrison was Head of School; Dilley is DHP
 Director of Research; and Gash and Cecolin have served as DHP research ethics officers.
 The Aberdeen Humanities Research Fund, which has supported several HHoA research
 initiatives, was co-founded by Brown and Armstrong. Dilley is chair of the Friends of
 Aberdeen University Library.

 1.2 Research Strategy

 Four principles animate HHoA’s research culture: 1) The pursuit of outstanding and diverse
 disciplinary scholarship to provide the essential base for interdisciplinary collaboration,
 through the publication of high-quality monographs, journal articles, book chapters and
 databases. 2) The encouragement of a collaborative and diverse research culture principally,
 though not exclusively, through interdisciplinary research centres and the Unit’s work in
                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 progress seminar. 3) The fostering of outreach and impact beyond the academy through
 engagement with local, national and international audiences. 4) The sustaining of research
 infrastructure locally, nationally and internationally.
 These principles are realised through: 1) an inclusive, diverse research culture that pays
 particular attention to supporting, mentoring and developing ECRs. 2) strong and focused
 national and international collaborations and membership in research networks supported by
 targeted buyouts of time. 3) the encouragement of outreach and public dissemination of
 research through workload abatements and support from the DHP Research Committee, the
 Development Trust and other University sources. 4) active support for sustaining the Unit’s
 disciplines through editorships, engagement in national and international research bodies,
 and the reviewing of grant applications for UK and international funding bodies, with
 recognition for this activity in workload models.

 1.3 Research Structure

 DHP establishes the policy and resource framework within which the Unit operates. The
 Unit’s discipline research leaders, Frost (History) and Pierce (History of Art), report to the
 School Research Committee, chaired by DHP’s Director of Research (Dilley), which is
 accountable to Heads of Discipline (Marsden, J. Anderson), the School Executive and the
 Head of School. The Research Director reports to the University Research Policy Committee
 (see REF5a). The Research Committee approves the research strategy, oversees its
 implementation and allocates research funding.

 1.4 Research Centres

 One Research Institute and several Research Centres provide the framework for individual
 scholarship and collaborative research. They foster and provide leadership across the
 University, enabling the strategic principle of interdisciplinarity enshrined in Aberdeen 2040 by
 promoting research in and beyond humanities and social sciences: all Centres have
 significant membership from outside DHP. They are active in international networks and run
 seminars, workshops and conferences. Their developing online presence, underpinned in
 2020–2021 by dedicated DHP support, advances research sustainability by reducing the
 costs of these activities, which have been historically substantial owing to Aberdeen’s
 geographic location, and widens the audience for their activities.
 The Research Institute of Irish and Scottish Studies (RIISS) is directed by Brown; its
 DHP members include R. Anderson, Armstrong, Bow, Frost, Harper, Hepburn, Luminiello,
 Macdonald, Naphy, O’Connor and O’Leary. Founded in 1999 as an interdisciplinary AHRC-
 funded research institute, RIISS has a proven track record in transnational and comparative
 history, focusing on Scottish and Irish society, history, language, literature and culture. It
 devotes particular attention to the Scottish and Irish diaspora and its global social, economic
 and cultural impact. DHP supports RIISS through buyouts for Brown and Bow. RIISS holds
 weekly seminars and regular workshops and conferences. Numerous successful research
 projects completed during two phases of AHRC Centre funding (1999–2010) helped secure
 two endowments: the Glucksman Chair in Irish-Scottish Studies and the Margaret Jones
 Bequest, which supports conferences, postdoctoral fellowships and staff salaries, and
 provides seed funding to develop grant applications. It currently has twenty PGRs under
 supervision.
 The Centre for Early Modern Studies (CEMS): Founded in 2003 CEMS is jointly-funded by
 DHP and the School of Language, Literature, Music and Visual Culture (LLMVC): each
 provides GBP1,600 per annum, and the University pays the annual fee for membership in the
 Newberry Library Renaissance Consortium. Co-directed by Friedrich and Gordon (English),
 its DHP members include J. Anderson, Armstrong, Bow, Gash, Ehrenschwendtner, Hönes,
 Naphy and Pierce. CEMS promotes individual and collaborative research in early modern
 language, literature, art, history, culture, music, philosophy, law, economy, religion and
 society. It researches and publicises Aberdeen’s unique early modern holdings in its Special

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Collections, which are explored by its interdisciplinary Manuscripts Reading Group. CEMS
 currently has nine PGRs under supervision.
 The Centre for Global Security and Governance (CGSG) is directed by Weber. Its
 members include R. Anderson, Barr, Bow, Cecolin, Dilley and Heywood. Working across
 History, International Relations, Political Science and Anthropology, it focuses on past,
 present and future challenges to global security and governance. CGSG merged with the
 Centre for Global Empires in 2017, establishing a broader approach to its extra-European
 research and enabling it to build on Dilley’s AHRC-funded policy engagement (with KCL) on
 the Commonwealth. Through CGSG, Weber works with the Bipartisan Policy Centre in
 Washington DC. The global scope of the centre has been strengthened by the arrival of
 Cecolin (Middle East), Bow (South Asia), and R. Anderson (West Africa and the Americas).
 CGSG has fourteen PGRs under supervision.
 The Centre for the History and Philosophy of Science, Technology and Medicine
 (CHPSTM) is led by Marsden; its DHP members include O’Connor, Naphy and Bow.
 CHPSTM is jointly funded by DHP and LLMVC. It provides an interdisciplinary focus for work
 on the history, philosophy and literary study of science, technology and medicine. Members
 are drawn from History, Philosophy, English, Celtic, Hispanic and Latin American Studies,
 Anthropology, Computer Studies, Medical Humanities, Film and Visual Culture, Accountancy
 and the Rowett Institute (for food and nutrition). CHPSTM works closely with Museums and
 Special Collections, and with the University of St Andrews is a key player in a new research
 group, Scotland’s Historians of Science. It currently has ten PGRs under supervision.
 The Centre for Scandinavian Studies (CSS) was founded in 2007 and is directed by
 Burrows. CSS’s approach is fundamentally interdisciplinary and transnational. Covering the
 history and culture of medieval Scandinavia and Iceland, it devotes particular attention to the
 interactions of Scandinavia with Celtic and Anglo-Saxon culture in the British Isles (O’Connor,
 O’Leary and, before retirement, Dumville). It researches early Scandinavian history, law;
 landscape and society including pre-Christian religion; Christianisation; and early Church
 organisation (Pedersen). It runs an interdisciplinary MLitt programme, and has thirteen PGRs
 currently under supervision.
 Brown (deputy director), Friedrich, Frost and Weber collaborate with the University’s
 Centre for Citizenship, Civil Society and the Rule of Law (CISRUL), part-funded by a
 private bequest and directed by Stack (Hispanic and Latin American Studies). Brown, Frost,
 Friedrich and Cecolin have co-supervised interdisciplinary doctorates in CISRUL and
 participate in its extensive programme of seminars, reading groups and workshops. Two
 postdoctoral fellows (Luminiello, Baris) completed funded PhDs in CISRUL, which secured
 Horizon 2020 Marie Składowska-Curie COFUND funding for 12 PGR studentships in its
 POLITICO programme.


 1.5 Implementation of Research Strategy and Achievement of Research Goals
 The Centres have played a key role in implementing the Unit’s research strategy. Seed
 funding from RIISS enabled the development of Armstrong’s Leverhulme–funded Aberdeen
 Burgh Registers project. RIISS housed the Scottish Catholic Archive project, which was
 launched following the transfer of the Scottish Catholic Archive and the Blairs College Library
 to Museums and Special Collections. It has expanded into the international Catholic Memory
 project, which seeks to identify, preserve and disseminate archives of the Roman Catholic
 Church across the English-speaking world, many of which are at risk. This project developed
 Luminiello’s research on Irish Catholic women religious, which is jointly funded by RIISS and
 the Cushwa Centre at Notre Dame. Comparative and transnational approaches are central to
 RIISS’s mission. In collaboration with CEMS, it extended its focus on comparative political
 unions, launched at a 2013 conference at Chicago’s Newberry Library with symposia
 comparing the British/Irish and Polish-Lithuanian unions (2014, 2018). RIISS houses the
 interdisciplinary project Multi-Lingual Radical Poetry and Folk Song in Britain and Ireland,
 1770-1820, which published three volumes with Routledge in its own book series Poetry and
 Song in the Age of Revolution (Brown). CHPSTM ran over 60 events in the cycle, including a

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGR-run seminar series and an online seminar. CGSG runs regular policy-oriented seminars,
 including a symposium with Channel 4’s Nik Gowing and Roland Koch, former Minister-
 President of Hesse, on contemporary geopolitical challenges and their impact on leadership
 (2019) and a public discussion organised by Cecolin between Weber and Meir Litvak on anti-
 Judaism in Iran since the eighteenth century (2018).
 RIISS plays a key role in realising the Unit’s strategic aim of publishing high-quality
 interdisciplinary research, while encouraging the development of ECRs. RIISS houses the
 series Autobiographies, Biographies, Diaries & Memoirs, which publishes works by and about
 leading Scottish and Irish figures; in 2016 it completed publication of the six-volume diary of
 Patrick Gordon (1635–99), described by Paul Bushkovitch (Yale) as “the most important
 source for seventeenth-century Russian and European history…published in decades”. It also
 publishes the interdisciplinary Journal of Irish and Scottish Studies and the Journal of Scottish
 Thought and has incubated the revival of Aberdeen University Press, now housed in the
 University library (See REF5a).


 1.6 Impact: Research in Action
 The success of the Unit’s impact strategy was acknowledged in 2014, when it was rated
 second for impact in the UK, with significant contributions from both History and History of Art.
 Dilley is impact lead, he identifies key research users, advises colleagues on opportunities
 and encourages the cultivation of strategic partnerships. The University’s Public Engagement
 with Research Unit provides training and advice, which is reinforced by School and Discipline
 Meetings. Activities with impact potential are acknowledged within workload models and
 research leave can be used to develop impact.
 The Unit has significant collaborations with governmental and third sector bodies. RIISS has
 a long-established relationship with the Irish government and the Irish consulate in Edinburgh.
 It ran an outreach event with the Irish consulate in Boston, USA (2019). Brown is a member
 of the British Irish Chamber of Commerce Higher Education network. Frost and Friedrich
 work extensively with the Polish and Lithuanian embassies. They regularly attend the Cross-
 Party group on Poland at the Holyrood Parliament and were panel-members (London, 2018;
 Warsaw, 2019) at the Belvedere Forum, a Polish and British government initiative to promote
 dialogue between Polish and British civil society. The Scottish Government’s Child Abuse
 Inquiry commissioned a co-authored report from Harper on child migration (see REF3).
 Macknight’s KTP project Innovation through Collaboration between Co-operative Businesses
 and Universities in Scotland, inspired by the 2012 UN International Year of Co-operatives,
 reported to the Scottish Government’s Directorate for Economic Development and the
 Scottish Parliament’s Economy, Energy and Tourism committee in this cycle. Watts was
 awarded an GBP18,000 Scottish Environment, Food and Agriculture Research Institutes
 (SEFARI) Gateway and Highlands and Islands Enterprise Fellowship in 2020 that drew on his
 research on food networks.
 Researchers work extensively with local and national bodies, contributing regularly to the
 University’s annual MayFest, the Being Human Festival, and Festival of Social Sciences
 (FOSS) events (Armstrong, Dilley, Friedrich, Frost and Weber). As part of the Unit’s
 commitment to inclusion and diversity, Friedrich secured GBP18,000 from the Scottish
 Universities Insight Institute for a collaborative project with Heriot-Watt University to
 communicate research on migration to the Polish community in Scotland, linked to a schools’
 outreach project. Frost made six podcasts on Polish-Lithuanian history for Edinburgh and
 Lothians Regional Equality Council’s Routes to Roots project aimed at migrant communities,
 which have been viewed over 13,000 times (2017). Geddes mounted annual tours of King’s
 College Chapel on Open Doors day and was Principal Investigator on an AHRC Cultural
 Engagement award (GBP30,000, Feb-May 2016) for Heritage for All: The History on our
 Doorstep. Historians and Art Historians designed an app Discover Old Aberdeen, produced
 by Insh (PhD HoA, 2014) with contributions by Armstrong, Geddes, Morrison, Naphy and
 Pierce.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CHPSTM and the National Museums of Scotland co-organised a series of Re-engineering
 events funded by the RSE involving knowledge transfer from model-makers to inform
 interpretation of scientific models in museums. Within the University, the following have been
 appointed as Honorary Curatorial Fellows with Museums and Special Collections:
 Armstrong, J. Anderson, R. Anderson, Hönes and Marsden. Other Unit members have
 contributed substantially to the research and curation of public exhibitions in the University
 Library including Print Shop Window: An Exhibition of Visual Satire (Brown, Pierce, 2014),
 New Found Land: Scottish Emigration to Canada (Harper, 2014), Cover Stories: What
 Bindings Say About Books (Naphy, 2016–2017), an exhibition on Jan Karski funded by the
 Polish Embassy (Friedrich, 2017) and Canaletto in Aberdeen (Gash, 2019).


 1.7 Open Access
 DHP encourages Open Research by enabling scholars to disseminate their work as widely as
 possible, in line with core values of academic freedom (supported by Library colleagues from
 the Scholarly Communications Service, see REF5a). HHoA complies with HEFCE’s Open
 Access policy on journal articles; the Research Committee funds Open Access fees. RIISS
 has revived Aberdeen University Press to publish Open Access monographs and articles and
 publishes two periodicals which support OA: the Journal of Irish and Scottish Studies and the
 Journal of Scottish Thought, edited by Brown and Bow respectively. The complete dataset of
 the Aberdeen Registers Online: 1398-1511 is richly searchable for text and XQuery
 expressions: its website attracted 91,032 separate visits from 2,185 visitors between January
 and June 2020. CSS hosts the online, publicly available database of the major international
 editing project Skaldic Poetry of the Scandinavian Middle Ages, funded by the AHRC; the
 Australian Research Council; the Joint Committee of the Nordic Research Councils for
 Humanities; the National Endowment for the Humanities; the Deutsche
 Forschungsgemeinschaft; and the Icelandic Research Council. Burrows is on the editorial
 board.

 1.8 New Initiatives

 In 2019 the Unit established The Research Centre for Polish-Lithuanian Studies (CPLS)
 to extend the work of Frost and Friedrich on the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth into the
 modern period, formalise and extend their extensive research links across central and
 Eastern Europe and consolidate and capitalise on the extensive non-academic engagement
 developed in this cycle (see REF3). CPLS researches the transnational legacy of Poland-
 Lithuania down to the present day, providing a focus for scholars across the humanities and
 social sciences with interests in its successor states (Poland, Lithuania, Belarus, Ukraine and
 Latvia), including: Luminiello; Lynch (English); Trzebiatowska (Sociology); Marcus (Film
 Studies); and Bryzgel (Visual Culture). It was formally opened by the ambassadors of Poland
 and Lithuania in January 2020.
 Other initiatives are centred on the Unit’s strategic appointments. Bow has established an
 Asian research network on intellectual history, while Cecolin is building connections with
 Aberdeen’s Qatari campus to expand the Unit’s focus on Middle Eastern history. She is
 working to establish a research hub in the University on modern Jewish history to advance
 the Aberdeen 2040 strategies of inclusion and sustainability and to enhance the visibility of
 Jewish and Middle Eastern History locally and internationally. Within the Unit, this hub will
 draw on Weber’s work on antisemitism and Hönes’s interests in the art collections of Jewish
 refugees.
 R. Anderson is investigating the legacy of slavery in the University and region, including
 working with Museums and Special Collections to decolonise and reinterpret its collections.
 He works with Scottish racial equality charities and has presented Black History Month talks
 for the Coalition for Racial Equality and Rights (Glasgow), the Fair Justice System for
 Scotland Group and the Scottish Graduate School for Arts and Humanities. He is involved in
 the National Trust for Scotland’s project Facing Our Past, to establish how NTS will address

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 slavery and the legacies of colonialism.
 RIISS, led by Luminiello, is preparing grant applications for a digital humanities project on
 female education and healthcare among indigenous people in the Global South in
 collaboration with Notre Dame, KCL, UCL-Birkbeck, and UCD. In HoA, J. Anderson is co-
 investigator on an AHRC Research Network with Central St Martins UAL and the Warburg
 Institute entitled A Vision for Europe: Academic Action and Responsibility in Times of Crises,
 on photography and WW2 refugee scholars.

 3B   2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy

 The Unit has focused on regenerating from below through the appointment of ECRs who
 complement existing areas of strength, extend it in new strategic directions and enhance the
 work of the Centres. Research by Mehrkens on nineteenth-century French monarchy
 complements that of Macknight on the French nobility, and she adds a German dimension to
 coverage of this period, enhancing Weber’s work on post 1900. She adds nineteenth-century
 expertise on war and society to that of Macdonald and Frost on the medieval and early
 modern periods. At the postdoctoral level, Luminiello’s international project co-funded by
 RIISS and the University of Notre Dame complements research on nineteenth-century
 Catholicism, Poland, Ireland and the British Empire. HHoA has also appointed strategically to
 diversify its research beyond its traditional base in pursuit of Aberdeen 2040’s principle of
 inclusivity (see REF5a). The Bruce Bequest, which supports study of Asia, enabled the
 appointment of Jackson, an expert on twentieth-century China, now a lecturer in Dublin, and
 then Cecolin, who brings new expertise on the Middle East, Islamic and Jewish History to
 complement existing strengths in CGSG. Bow’s appointment, supported financially by RIISS,
 creates a strong research cluster on the Enlightenment alongside Brown (Scottish and Irish
 Enlightenments) and Friedrich (German and east European Enlightenments). Bow’s
 research on the impact of the Enlightenment in Asia substantially expands the Unit’s
 expertise. R. Anderson, whose appointment to a lectureship, advertised in January 2020 but
 delayed by COVID, brings his research on the West African diaspora and slavery in the
 Americas. Baris’s research on Kurdish experiments in council democracy in Turkey and Syria
 expands the Unit’s expertise on the Middle East into the contemporary era; he also
 researches popular indigenous movements in Mexico.
 DHP also promotes interdisciplinarity through split contracts with LLMVC to enable individuals
 to develop research irrespective of institutional boundaries: thus CSS is strengthened by
 O’Connor’s expertise as a literary scholar on sagas and that of O’Leary and, until his
 retirement, Dumville, on Celtic and Anglo-Saxon Studies. O’Connor’s expertise as a historian
 of science strengthens CHPSTM, where he co-supervises PhDs. Interdisciplinarity is taken
 into account when advertising and appointing posts, and individuals are actively encouraged
 to work with scholars outside the Unit. The University encourages these links through
 flexibility over the submission of individual staff members in appropriate units outside their
 School: thus HHoA includes O’Leary (Celtic) and O’Connor, who contribute early medieval
 expertise to RIISS and Watts (Scottish Historical Geography; Rowett Institute), whose
 research on food security, food networks and cooperative societies complements the work of
 Macknight, who was PI on a 2013–2016 Knowledge Transfer Partnership for the Co-
 operative Education Trust Scotland.
 DHP launched a strategic restructuring of Art History following the retirement of senior scholars
 and an external review. This is led by J. Anderson, appointed as a Reader, whose research
 on Mary Magdalen and late medieval art in the Alps strengthens CEMS, as does Hönes,
 whose work on cultural translation and eighteenth-century antiquarianism adds to the
 substantial expertise in CEMS on eighteenth-century culture (Bow, Brown, Friedrich and
 Pierce). J. Anderson’s work on 20th-century photography brings a new element to CGSG and
 Visual Culture in LLMVC. They both have extensive experience of working with galleries and


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 museums within and beyond the UK and, as previously noted, have been appointed honorary
 curators in Museums and Special Collections.

 2.2 Staff Development

 Staff development is of crucial significance for the maintenance of an effective and sustainable
 research culture, and the development of ECRs is a key element of the Unit’s strategy.
 At the University level, Aberdeen has Investors in People accreditation and subscribes to the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. Staff are encouraged to attend
 training courses run by the University’s Researcher Development Unit. Training is provided for
 new supervisors, with refresher courses for the more experienced. There is a dedicated
 Humanities Support Officer in the University Research and Innovation Office, whose Grants
 Academy provides training and advice on funding applications. This strong foundation of
 developmental support for our researchers is reflected in the University’s HR Excellence in
 Research Award (REF5a).
 DHP has a comprehensive framework supporting research as a core element of staff
 development. Academic Line Managers (ALMs) are responsible for recommending
 accommodations to ensure time for research. Dedicated Discipline Research Leads (Frost,
 History; Pierce, HoA) offer further support on all aspects of research, including grant
 development. The Annual Review system is supplemented by dedicated Research Support
 Interviews conducted by the Director of Research, Discipline Research Leads and Heads of
 Discipline/ALMs. These identify short- and long-term research goals, discuss funding sources
 and training needs and ensure research is conducted according to University-wide
 governance frameworks, with particular focus on ethics and integrity and equality and
 diversity.
 Staff on teaching and research contracts are expected to dedicate 40% of their time to
 research, amounting to 640 hours per annum in DHP’s robust and transparent real-hours
 workload model, which protects time funded by fractional grants. They are entitled to apply for
 one semester’s research leave in every six (exceeding the University minimum of one in
 eight), with the option to roll over entitlement. Staff may apply for up to GBP800 per annum
 research funding through the School Research Committee; further funding is available at
 University level, and through the Development Trust’s Humanities Fund. DHP has a
 dedicated Business Development Officer, who works with the School Director of Research to
 identify and support staff in the pursuit of research funding. The School operates a rigorous
 and supportive peer review process for grant applications.
 In 2015 the Unit introduced work-in-progress seminars, usually twice per semester, to provide
 comment and feedback on articles or book chapters in preparation. ECRs in particular are
 encouraged to submit work, which is commented on by a colleague with relevant expertise
 before an open discussion with staff and PGRS.
 All staff are encouraged to undertake relevant research training. The University’s Research
 and Innovation team provides an extensive range of relevant training courses, including
 research ethics, PI training, Equality and Diversity and PGR supervisor training (REF5a).
 Staff are also facilitated to undertake relevant training offered externally.

 2.3 Early Career Researchers

 The Unit devotes particular care to the development of early career staff. DHP follows and
 enhances the University’s Academic Probation policy. New staff, regardless of probationary
 status, are allocated a mentor and an additional training allowance of 50 hours in their first
 year; staff on probation receive this throughout the agreed probationary period. In the first two
 years of probation, ECRs are allocated workload reductions of 250 hours in year one of
 probation and 125 in year two. Furthermore, new course preparation is taken into account in
 workload modelling, further defending research time. Funding is available to staff on temporary
 research and teaching and scholarship contracts: under University policy 15% of the latter’s

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 time is allocated for research and scholarship. The support system covers postdoctoral fellows,
 who are represented on DHP’s Research Committee and the University Post-Doctoral
 Researcher’s Committee. In this cycle, Bow, Campsie, Cecolin, Frankot, Hawes, Hepburn,
 Jackson, Luminiello, Mackenzie and Mehrkens have been supported and mentored as ECRs
 or new staff members.
 The success of these support structures is demonstrated by results. Jackson was appointed to
 a lectureship at Trinity College Dublin, while Mehrkens, originally on a three-year replacement
 teaching and scholarship contract, secured a permanent teaching and research lectureship in
 2019. Liapi, on a similar contract, is now a lecturer at Keele, while Salt moved to an associate
 professorship at Nottingham and now serves on the AHRC Advisory Board and UKRI’s
 External Advisory Group for Equality, Diversity and Inclusion. Campsie has secured a
 lectureship at Manchester. Of the research fellows on the Aberdeen Burgh Records Project,
 Havinga was appointed to a permanent lectureship at Bristol (2018), Frankot secured a
 permanent senior lectureship at Nord University, Bodø, Norway (2019); Hepburn received
 follow-on funding from the AHRC for “Playing in the Archives” (2019), a Chivas Brothers
 Research Fellowship (2019–2020) and a Research Fellowship on the AHRC-DFG project led
 by Armstrong (2020-2023); and Hawes is now Researcher Development Adviser at Aberdeen.
 Hawes has also published three articles and, with Armstrong, Frankot, Havinga and Hepburn,
 co-edited the Aberdeen Registers Online. Luminiello’s one-year joint contract with DHP and
 Notre Dame’s Cushwa Centre has been extended by 26 months; she has published one article,
 is joint author of another, has a co-edited book in the press and a monograph under review
 with CUP. After completing his doctorate in CISRUL, Baris secured a Leverhulme Early Career
 Fellowship (2019–2022).

 2.4 Development of established members of staff

 The success of these support mechanisms for more senior staff, in particular the peer-review
 of funding applications, is demonstrated by successful applications for two AHRC Early
 Career Fellowships (Burrows, Dilley), project-funding from Leverhulme, AHRC-DFG and
 other sources for Armstrong and a British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship for Weber. Frost
 followed his three-year British Academy/Wolfson Research Chair in the last cycle with a
 Leverhulme Major Fellowship, and Friedrich secured a Leverhulme Research Fellowship.
 Further evidence is provided by several promotions since August 2013 from lectureship to
 senior lectureship/reader (Dilley, Burrows, Macknight, Armstrong) and from senior
 lecturer/reader to professor (Brown, Morrison).

 2.5 Research students

 The Unit supports a thriving PGR community that has expanded since 2014: 44 FTE doctoral
 degrees were awarded during the period 2013/14-2018/19, which equates to a rate of 0.27
 degrees per FTE per year for REF-2021, compared with a sector average of 0.25 for REF-
 2014. This represents an increase of 13.13 FTEs on the 2014 figure and a slight rise from
 0.26 degrees per FTE per year in 2014. Substantial growth resulted from the strategic
 decision to launch distance PhDs, an innovative approach providing access to PGR study for
 a new and diverse constituency of students unable to pursue on-campus study. Of 54 new-
 start PGRs since 2015, no fewer than 22 (41%) have been distance students, three of whom
 have completed their degrees.
 DHP provides a supportive framework for PGR study, overseen by School PGR Director
 Armstrong, supported by a dedicated administrator and unit-level PGR Leads. The Unit
 provides dual supervision in line with SFC best practice guidelines. All supervisors receive
 training from the University’s Postgraduate Research School (see REF5a). As well as PGRS
 induction, PGRs undergo a School level integration. For the growing community of distance
 PGRs, supervision is delivered remotely, and seminars and other events are made available
 online to align the distance PG experience with on campus study. Distance students may visit
 Aberdeen at any time and for any duration and are invited to annual PGR reading weekends.

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Dual supervision underpins interdisciplinary doctoral projects. In CHPSTM Marsden and
 Watts (Rowett Institute) secured an ESRC 1 +3 studentship to support a collaborative PhD
 project on meat inspection, which secured an additional GBP7,500 grant from the Association
 of Meat Inspectors Trust; Barr co-supervises a PhD on the philosophical and theological
 basis for Helen Keller’s political activism with Brock (Divinity), who has particular expertise in
 disability theology. Brown has co-supervised PhDs with Lynch (English) and Lord
 (Philosophy) and Friedrich has co-supervised with Stack (Latin-American Studies) in
 CISRUL. Macdonald (History) and Pierce (History of Art) co-supervise an AHRC-funded
 project on material culture, war and society in medieval and early modern Aberdeen.
 The Unit devotes particular care to the monitoring and support of PG students. Aberdeen’s
 Researcher Development Unit (see REF5a) offers tailored training courses for doctoral
 researchers. The Unit offers bespoke training and information sessions, as well as funding for
 participation in the annual PGR training event at the Scottish National Archives in Edinburgh.
 With LLMVC, it organises the Research Gym: a programme of training for Humanities PG
 students: sessions include “preparing for the nine-month PGR evaluation”; “getting published”;
 and “building a career”. Sessions are recorded and available online for distance students.
 Aberdeen belongs to the Scottish Graduate School for the Arts and Humanities (SGSAH)
 (Brown is on the Executive Board and DTP Steering committee); members of the Unit
 (Marsden, Weber, Armstrong) co-supervise PGRs with colleagues from other universities in
 the consortium. Haslam (History PGR) has co-organised the Confronting Shadows: Mindful
 and Ethical Communication of Sensitive Content PGR workshop in Glasgow (2019), supported
 by the Scottish Graduate School of Social Sciences. Participation in courses leading to the
 Postgraduate Certificate in Higher Education Learning and Teaching is encouraged, as is
 membership of national postgraduate organisations such as History Lab. Macdonald is
 Aberdeen’s pathway representative for the Economic and Social History strand of SGSSS.
 Monitoring forms are completed by students and supervisors every six months, with a formal
 nine-month progression review on the basis of an 8,000-word assessment and an interview in
 the first year of study. Progress and quality of work is reviewed again in year two and three. To
 foster a sense of postgraduate community, all on-campus PGRs are assigned study spaces
 near academic staff offices wherever possible. Supervisors are trained to support students in
 difficulty, including signposting for mental health problems, and are responsible for referrals to
 the University’s counselling service and self-help resources.
 The Unit provides an effective framework for career development. PGRs are encouraged to
 attend and present at research seminars in the Centres and attend the Department’s work-in-
 progress seminar to gain experience of constructive criticism of scholarly drafts. DHP funds a
 postgraduate run seminar and subsidises an annual residential conference at the Goodenough
 Trust’s centre at the Burn, where postgraduates present papers and staff hold informal
 sessions on postgraduate issues and career development. RIISS funds senior PGRs to
 organise workshops on topics related to their dissertations, while CEMS runs an annual
 postgraduate colloquium and funds students on a competitive basis to attend the annual
 Newberry Library graduate conference. CSS holds symposia related to the work of individual
 PGR students and has established a scholarly postgraduate-run periodical Apardjón,
 inaugurated in 2020; the editorial team organised Northern Peripheries, an online conference,
 to celebrate the launch. PGR students can apply to the School PGR Committee for GBP100
 per annum to support research or attend conferences, with additional support available across
 the University. The Postgraduate Research School peer reviews applications for external
 funding and scholarships (see REF5a).
 This attention to development has brought notable success. Among PGR graduates in the
 period, Šapoka (2014) held a Jacobite Studies Trust postdoctoral fellowship, a postdoctoral
 fellowship at Yale and has secured a post in the Lithuanian Institute of History (Vilnius);
 Whelan (2014) is a lecturer at South Downs College; Thomas (2015) held a postdoctoral
 fellowship at the IHR and a temporary lectureship at Dundee and is now Research Manager for
 Historic Environment Scotland; Hayes (2016) is a lecturer at UHI; Drechsler (2017) has
 secured postdoctoral positions in Frankfurt-am-Main and Bergen; Heilskov (2018) has been
 awarded a Carlsburg Foundation stipendium; Nielsen (2018) is manager of the Midgard Viking

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Centre in Borre, Norway; and Luminiello (2019) holds a postdoctoral position at
 Aberdeen/Notre Dame. In HoA, Insh (2014), was appointed Research Forum Programme
 Manager at the Courtauld Institute, while Foot (2016), was appointed to a lectureship at
 Edinburgh. From CSS, Ruiter (2018) was fixed-term Assistant Professor at Nottingham (2019–
 20), and Elortza-Larrea (2018) is fixed-term Senior Lecturer at the University of Gothenburg.
 Mazheika (2019) has secured a postdoctoral position at the Polish Academy of Sciences
 Institute of History (2020).

 2.6 Equality and Diversity

 The remit of DHP’s Equality and Diversity Committee encompasses all protected
 characteristics and other relevant areas. DHP achieved Athena Swan Bronze (April 2017) and
 is working towards Silver. Committee composition accords with university policy on equality
 and diversity. All management positions are subject to open competition. Decisions on
 research resource allocation are taken through open, transparent processes. In accord with
 these principles, Equality and Diversity is a standing item on the Research Committee.
 Seminar conduct policies are applied to all seminars; there is a recognition of impact of
 parental duties in workload planning through facilitation of flexible working. Naphy, the DHP
 Equality and Diversity Officer, played a central role in the development of the University’s
 equality and diversity policy and has undertaken widespread dissemination of equality and
 diversity issues within DHP, the University and the local and national communities. The
 University’s Strategic plan, Aberdeen 2040, provides a context for further investment in
 underpinning research on Equality and Diversity, with Social Inclusion and Cultural Diversity
 (initially led by Brown) one of five interdisciplinary research themes (see REF5a).
 DHP provides support for all staff regardless of contract. Travel and Research/Development
 Funding is available for those on temporary research and teaching and scholarship contracts.
 Equality and Diversity issues are explicitly taken into account by the Research Committee
 when deciding on funding applications and in decisions on research leave, which is allocated
 according to a clear and transparent rota. DHP supports flexible working arrangements,
 including switches to part time contracts, as with Harper’s move to 0.5 FTE. Research support
 interviews are conducted with temporary staff in consultation with ALMs on the same basis as
 those on open-ended contracts. Promotion and recognition of contributions are allocated
 according to robust University procedure in line with national descriptors. Issues regarding ill-
 health and protected characteristics are overseen by ALMs with support from Occupational
 Health on a case by case basis informed by real hours workload modelling. The interests of
 postdoctoral researchers are protected through the University’s new Post-Doctoral
 Researchers’ Committee, on which Hepburn sits. In the face of the COVID-19 crisis, the Unit
 has followed the University’s extensive policy guidelines by accommodating those with caring
 responsibilities whose research capacity is thereby diminished; by providing equipment to
 those who need support working from home; and through mental health support where
 necessary.
 The Unit continues to address gender imbalances at junior and senior levels. Three female
 members of staff have been appointed (Mehrkens, Cecolin as Lecturer and, as Reader, J.
 Anderson, while Macknight and Burrows were promoted to Senior Lectureships.
 Consequently, among individuals currently in post submitted from within DHP, 31% of those in
 promoted posts are female, compared with 15% in 2014.
 Aberdeen’s successful promotion of equality and diversity is demonstrated by its position in the
 Leiden Rankings for female authorship in the humanities and social sciences: it was 3rd in 2019
 for 2014–17 and 8th in 2020 for 2015–18; this performance is reflected in the Unit: 44.4% of
 authors with three, four or five submitted outputs are female. There was bespoke EDI training for
 staff involved in REF decision-making, including selection of the output portfolio. Unconscious bias
 training is mandatory for appointing panels and is available to all staff.
 The Unit has sought to extend its reach beyond Scottish, British and European History. In this
 cycle the appointment of Cecolin expands the Unit’s range into the modern Middle East and


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Jewish history, while Bow extends early modern intellectual history into east Asia. R.
 Anderson’s appointment adds expertise on Brazil and West Africa.
 4B   3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 Research income totalled GBP2,445,363 during the cycle. Much of this was realised through
 initiatives launched in the research centres and supported by the University’s Grant Academy
 and Public Engagement with Research Unit during the development of funding bids (see
 REF5a). In RIISS, seed funding helped launch Armstrong’s Leverhulme Research Project (Law
 in the Aberdeen Council Registers: 1398–1511) and follow-on grants for the same project: a
 Burgh Record Transcription of Records grant from Aberdeen City Council, three Creative
 Economy Engagement in Heritage fellowships (AHRC) and a Chivas Brothers grant. Armstrong
 followed this up by securing an AHRC-DFG grant for the collaborative project “Finance, Law and
 the Language of Governmental Practice in Late Medieval Towns: Aberdeen and Augsburg in
 Comparison” with the University of Mainz. Armstrong’s success in securing these grants was in
 part due to the skills learnt on two other grants conducted in RIISS: from the RCUK Digital
 Economy Hub for “A Text Analytic Approach to Rural and Urban Legal Histories”, and as Co-
 Investigator on an AHRC-funded project “Bennachie Landscapes: Investigating communities
 past and present at the colony site” (2013–2014). Within CEMS, Frost was awarded a
 Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship (2016–2019), and Friedrich secured a one-year
 Leverhulme Fellowship (2018–2019); her research was also funded by a Henkel Stiftung grant
 (Germany). The Unit enjoyed considerable success from publicly funded research councils.
 Within CGSG, Weber secured a British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship and a €20,000 Henkel
 Stiftung grant for his work on Hitler’s radicalisation. AHRC Early-Career fellowships were
 awarded to Dilley and Burrows. Sangster was co-investigator on a Brazilian Ministry of
 Science and Technology, Council of National Scientific and Technological Development grant of
 R$99,283 (GBP32,500) (2012-2015) for a collaborative project on non-biological agents of
 education: features and applications in accounting, with the universities of São Paulo (Brazil),
 Minnesota and Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, (USA). Baris was appointed on a Leverhulme
 Early Career Fellowship.

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

 HHoA benefits considerably from the University’s GBP58 million investment in the Sir Duncan
 Rice Library, opened in 2012 (see REF5a). It contains over 1,000,000 books and subscribes to
 major online resources including State Papers Online; EEBO; ECCO; British Parliamentary
 Papers; and British Library Newspapers 1600–1900. Its Wolfson Reading Room has
 transformed facilities for researching the University’s unrivalled Special Collections, where
 holdings underpin the work in particular of CHPSTM, CEMS and RIISS. The MacBean Collection
 of Jacobite materials and major holdings on the Scottish Enlightenment, including the papers of
 Thomas Reid and James Beattie, underpin research by Brown, Bow and Frost. The acquisition
 of the Scottish Catholic Archive, containing records from 1117 to 1877, together with existing
 holdings on Scottish Church History since the Reformation, establishes Aberdeen as a leading
 location for the study of Scotland’s religious and social history and underpins the work of Barr
 and Luminiello. Strategic acquisitions have made the Special Collections into a record office for
 Northeastern Scotland, with rich holdings of the papers of local landed families complementing
 the urban materials in the Aberdeen City archives. These repositories provided essential
 material for Armstrong’s Leverhulme project and its offshoots. CHPSTM draws extensively on
 the materials for research in the history of science, medicine and technology since the
 Renaissance. Holdings include incunabula and early printed works of natural philosophy and
 medicine; one of Britain’s most varied collections of scientific books and periodicals; and specific
 collections including nineteenth-century medical pamphlets, the Wolfenbüttel Plague Collection
 on microfiche, the Gregory Collection of scientific and medical works and the O'Dell Collection
 on railways and transport. Based on these rich holdings, the Unit has supervised PhDs on the
 histories of science, medicine and railways. In a collaboration with CEMS and the Herzog

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 August Bibliothek (HAB) (Wolfenbüttel), Friedrich led two projects to investigate and make
 available resources in Special Collections. Two international conferences co-hosted and co-
 funded by CEMS and CHPSTM in 2013 in Aberdeen and 2014 at the HAB, supported by a
 Hunter-Caldwell award (GBP2,000) and the Wellcome Trust (GBP5,000) investigated the library
 of the polymath Duncan Liddell, who was educated at Aberdeen and taught at Helmsted. This
 produced a publication, Medical Knowledge between Polymathy and Disciplinarity (edited by
 Pietro Omodeo in collaboration with Friedrich, 2016) and a searchable database. The Library
 provides dedicated budgets at unit level, overseen by unit Library representatives, and inter-
 library loan facilities. To coordinate research activity, the Special Collections librarian and the
 History subject librarian sit on the DHP Research Committee.

      Research and engagement activities based on the University’s rich collections are supported
      by the Aberdeen Humanities Fund (formerly chaired by Armstrong). It channels outside
      donations to staff members to support research incorporating these holdings. The Fund
      organises a Visiting Scholars Scheme enabling researchers elsewhere to use the collections
      on a short-term basis. Engagement with Aberdeen’s research culture and public engagement
      activities are encouraged under the scheme.

 5B   4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

      The Unit’s commitment to collaboration with scholars and institutions at the local, national
      and international level is a key principle of its research strategy. Through these links, its
      research centres and its members have contributed substantially to the research base in and
      beyond the UK and to the economy and society more generally. This commitment is captured
      in and acknowledged by DHP’s workload model.

 4.1 Research Collaboration and Scholarly Networks

 CEMS is one of only three UK members of the Consortium for Renaissance Studies at
 Chicago’s Newberry Library, a relationship that has facilitated significant international
 research initiatives. The University pays the annual $5,960 consortium fee, of which $3,000
 pays for staff and PGR visits to the Newberry. In a joint project between CEMS and the
 Newberry, Friedrich and Barr organised two linked conferences: “Reading the Ministry”
 (Aberdeen 2018 and Chicago 2019) exploring the literature read by Catholic and Protestant
 priests and ministers on the basis of library collections in major libraries in the English-
 speaking world. Friedrich was a section-leader for panels for the HAB‘s 2016 Baroque
 congress and edited a two-volume collection based on a 2010 conference she organised as a
 member of the HAB’s Arbeitskreis für Barokforschung. Other significant collaborations include
 Luminiello’s project with Notre Dame’s Cushwa Centre on Irish Women Religious in the
 Anglophone World and Bow’s contribution as founder and organiser of the East Asian
 Intellectual History Network (established 2019). Brown is Co-Investigator on the Royal
 Society of Edinburgh network grant: Twenty Years Hence: The Future of Irish & Scottish
 Studies (2018) and a member of the transatlantic Revolutionary Age network. Heywood is
 co-organiser and series co-editor of the international project Russia's Great War and
 Revolution, 1914–1922, which has over 250 individual contributors globally and has produced
 15 volumes in the cycle, with nine more to follow in 2020–22.

 4.2 Contributions to the Research Base

 Members of the Unit have made substantial contributions to the research base. Brown
 represents the University on the Scottish Network for Vice Principals of the Arts and Social
 Sciences and sits on the Board of the Scottish Universities Insight Institute. He is also a
 member of the British-Irish Chamber of Commerce Higher Education Committee and is on the
 Executive Board of the Scottish Graduate School for the Arts and Humanities, which
 determines postgraduate awards across the sector in Scotland. Friedrich and Pedersen are
 members of the AHRC Peer Review College; the latter is a College Gold Standard member,

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 while Marsden sat on the AHRC/Science Museum Collaborative Doctoral Projects board
 (2015–2017), Armstrong sat on its grant panel (2019, 2020). Frost and Marsden reviewed
 British Academy Early Career Fellowships. Friedrich, Weber, and Naphy have reviewed
 applications for the Carnegie Foundation; and Naphy chaired its panel on Research Incentive
 Grants for Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences in 2015 and 2018. Friedrich sat on the
 Royal Historical Society Research Support Committee, which distributes funds to PGR
 students.
 Members of the Unit have reviewed grants for a wide range of international funding bodies
 including: the Research Foundation Flanders, Belgium (Armstrong); RANNíS, the Icelandic
 Research Council (Burrows); European Research Council, Horizon Scheme (Frost);
 Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (Frost, Marsden); Lithuanian Research
 Council (Frost); Austrian Science Fund (Watts); and the Swiss National Science Foundation
 (Hönes). Frost is a member of the panel of experts for the Fund for Polish Science and
 reviewed over 25 grants for the Polish National Science Centre and the Polish Institute of
 Advanced Studies; and Friedrich regularly reviews grants for the National Science Centre
 and for the Deutscher Akademischer Austauschdienst (DAAD), the Lesser Foundation, Jena
 Research Fellowships and the Herzog August Bibliothek (all Germany). Brown reviewed an
 international fellowship application for the Max Weber Centre (Erfurt).
 Colleagues continue to be heavily invested in the research culture of their disciplines, often
 holding leading positions in professional organisations and learned societies. Friedrich was a
 Member of Council, RHS, 2015–19 and was elected Chair of the German History Society in
 2020. Pedersen is the founding President of the European Academy of Religion and a
 member of the business committee of the International Society for the History of Medieval
 Canon Law. Marsden chaired the Conference Committee and was a Council member for the
 British Society for the History of Science. Sangster was a trustee of the Academy of
 Accounting Historians. Particular encouragement and support is given to ECRs and mid-
 career members of the Unit to serve the profession. Dilley was Co-Convenor of History UK
 2012–2015 and Burrows and Mehrkens were Steering Group members in 2016–2019 and
 since 2019 respectively. Dilley has been a member of the Advisory Board of the Institute of
 Commonwealth Studies since 2018, while Armstrong chaired the Aberdeen and Northeast
 section of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland (2015–2018) and was a Trustee of the
 Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, 2015–2018.
 Members of the Unit take an active part in the publication process that supports research.
 Journal editorships include Barr (co-editor, Canadian Catholic Historical Association
 Historical Studies) and Macdonald (co-editor, Northern Scotland, 2014-2019; Scottish
 Historical Review, 2020–). Marsden was editor of Notes and Records: The Royal Society
 Journal for the History of Science (2015–2017), and Brown is the only non-US-based
 member of the editorial board of Eighteenth Century Studies. Naphy is commissioning editor
 of Manchester UP’s early modern series, and Mehrkens edits Studies in Modern Monarchy
 (Palgrave). Armstrong was reviews editor, Scottish Historical Review, 2013–2018.They
 serve widely on national and international editorial boards, including Accounting History;
 Belorusian Historical Journal; Canadian-American Slavic Studies; Europe-Asia Studies;
 Journal of Celtic Studies; Lietuvos Istorijos Studijos and Lithuanian Historical Studies
 (Lithuania); Revolutionary Russia; Rocznik Lituanistyki (Poland) Studia Gratiania (Vatican);
 and Zapiski Historyczne (Poland). Members of the Unit have peer reviewed articles for over
 100 different academic periodicals and several major international publishers, including
 Amsterdam UP, Cambridge UP, Central European University Press, Harvard UP, University
 of Warsaw Press, Oxford UP, Pittsburgh UP, Toronto UP, Chicago UP and Yale UP.


 PhD Examination: The expertise of colleagues is regularly drawn on for PhD examinations at
 Scottish, British and international universities including Bristol; the Central European
 University; Durham; York; École des Hautes Études en Sciences Sociales, Paris; Freie
 Universität Berlin; Flinders and La Trobe Universities, Australia; St Petersburg State
 University; Södertörn University, Stockholm; and the University of São Paulo, Brazil.


                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4.3 Contributions to the Economy and Society

 In addition to the engagement in the local community detailed in the Impact Strategy section,
 members of the Unit made considerable contributions to the creative economy in the UK and
 internationally. Weber appeared at the Hay Literary Festival, the Aye Write Festival and the
 Oxford Literary Festival to discuss his Becoming Hitler (2017), which has been translated into
 seven languages, and the film rights have been purchased. He was consultant on the 2017
 documentary Wer war Hitler? produced initially for the cinema and now shown daily in the
 permanent Hitler exhibition in the Berlin Story Bunker; it will soon be aired on Spiegel TV.
 Other documentaries based on his work have been produced or are in production for Netflix,
 Channel 4 and ZDF. His 2010 book on Hitler in WW1 is being adapted as a fictionalized ten-
 hour TV series by German production company UFA with a budget of €20,000,000. After his
 revelation that a 1923 Hitler biography was actually a secret autobiography, the work was
 central to an exhibition in Madrid (2017-2018) that attracted over 400,000 visitors. Gash
 appeared widely in the media, including the BBC, the Times and the Scotsman following his
 attribution of a painting in the UoA collection to Canaletto. Barr did a podcast for the Abbey
 Theatre, Dublin, for a production of Thomas Kilroy’s The Big Chapel and Brown delivered a
 broadcast lecture at the US Capitol, Washington DC, on the Aberdeen University graduate
 who designed it. In 2013 and 2019 Frost was interviewed on Polish, Lithuanian and Ukrainian
 TV and radio in connection with the anniversaries of the unions of Horodło and Lublin.
 Appearances on Radio 4’s In our Time include Harper on the Highland Clearances; Marsden
 on Isambard Kingdom Brunel; Gash on Judith beheading Holofernes; and J. Anderson on
 Mary Magdalen. Dilley, Heywood and Pedersen contributed articles to the Conversation on
 Brexit and the Commonwealth, Gallipoli and medieval marriage law; and Pedersen’s two
 articles attracted 43,636 reads. Sangster collaborated on an award-winning computerised
 gaming interface for teaching accounting history; and an accounting history module delivered
 in Portuguese online to over 4,000 students.

 4.4 Prizes and Awards

 The success of the Unit’s research strategy is demonstrated by the fellowships, prizes and
 awards secured by its members. Frost was elected FBA (2016) and FRSE (2020) and has been
 a corresponding fellow of the Association of Polish Historians since 2012. His Oxford History of
 Poland-Lithuania, volume 1 was awarded the Pro Historia Polonorum prize by the Association of
 Polish Historians for the best book on Polish history published by a foreigner between 2012 and
 2017 (2017) (GBP4,000), the Prize of the Polish Foreign Ministry (2017) (€10,000) and the main
 award for a foreigner of the Benedict the Pole Prize for his scientific works and propagating
 knowledge of the history and culture of Poland (2019). In 2020 he was awarded the Knights
 Cross of the Order for Merits to Lithuania. Three prestigious awards recognised the public
 impact of Harper’s Our Migration Story: it was named as a Research Champion in the 2017
 Community Integration Awards. It won the Royal Historical Society’s Public History Prize for Best
 Online Resource (2018) and the 2019 Guardian University Award for Research Impact. Weber’s
 Becoming Hitler: The Making of a Nazi (2017) was shortlisted for the 2018 Elizabeth Longford
 Prize in Historical Biography. Sangster’s Libr. XV won the Academy of Accounting Historian’s
 Hourglass Award for its “demonstrable and significant contribution to knowledge through
 research and publication in accounting history”. Sangster was awarded the 2014 “Premio
 Enrique Fernández Peña de Historia de la Contabilidad” by the Spanish Association of
 Accounting and Business Administration. Baris received the Central Florida University prize for
 the best article on Kurdish Studies (2014). Friedrich held a three-month guest professorship at
 the Herzog August Library Wolfenbüttel (2015) and a guest professorship at the Leibniz Institute
 for European History, Mainz (2019). O’Leary was Honorary Research Associate, Department of
 Anglo-Saxon, Norse and Celtic, University of Cambridge and Visiting Scholar, Wolfson College,
 Cambridge (2015).



                                                                                          Page 14
