Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Durham University

 Unit of Assessment: 31 - Theology and Religious Studies

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Strategy, Context and Academic Infrastructure
 The Department of Theology and Religion regards ‘Theology’ and ‘Religion’ not as separate
 research domains but as fluid labels for a field that requires multiple perspectives. Because this
 field is broad and complex – comprising the pervasive human tendency to form fundamental
 beliefs about the universe and the human good – the Department regards interdisciplinary method
 as essential to research excellence. It maintains a distinctive ethos, characterised by open, critical
 but sympathetic attention to multiple traditions, religious and secular. Its overarching strategic
 research aims are:

     (i) to understand, challenge, and enrich traditions of thought and practice via an improved
          comprehension of their history, and by attending to neglected voices and resources;
    (ii) to train researchers in an environment where the field is continually developed through
          interdisciplinary interaction;
    (iii) to shape academic and public discourse, on the understanding that many pressing social
          and political problems require a critical yet respectful engagement with religious
          commitments and practices.

 The Department has three overlapping areas of expertise:

       Biblical Studies (including Hebrew Bible, New Testament, early Christianity, and early
        Judaism);
       Christian Theology (including historical and contemporary theology, philosophy, and
        ethics);
       Study of Religion (including the empirical study of contemporary religion and its contexts
        of practice).

 Cutting across these are three methodological and thematic conversations:

    1. Historical, textual and philological study, focused on texts and their interpretation.
    2. Social-scientific methods, including ethnography.
    3. Philosophical, ethical, and theological constructive thought, including ressourcement from
       previous generations to address current questions.

 Key to the Department’s vitality is its depth of expertise in the three subject areas and in the three
 cross-cutting methodological conversations. This enables an intellectual context of both
 disciplinary specialisation and interdisciplinary boundary-crossing. These modes of enquiry are
 supported by two principal contexts:

    (i) ten concurrent research seminars, meeting regularly during term-time. These generate,
        test, and develop research in progress from Durham and elsewhere, offering disciplinary
        depth and interdisciplinary interaction;




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    (ii) four Centres – hubs for themed research based in the Department and led by specialist
         academic staff that coordinate research programmes, organise conferences, and develop
         partnerships with external stakeholders.

 In both contexts, our large cohort of nearly 200 research postgraduates (PGR) and 8 early career
 researchers participate in a vibrant research culture.

 The Department’s impact strategy is to mobilise research to shape discourses in faith communities
 and the wider public, especially in policy and practice involving religion. This impact arises
 organically from the sustained engagement of researchers with external bodies, supported by the
 University’s Research Impact Fund and by the Faculty Impact and Engagement Manager. Impact
 case studies arise from long-term interaction between research and practice, and research is itself
 developed through stakeholder engagement. The four Centres have a special responsibility to
 develop research impact (see REF3).

 The Department’s research and impact strategy is overseen by a Research Committee, chaired
 by the Director of Research and including the Impact Coordinator. Postgraduate research is
 overseen by a Postgraduate Education Committee, including a Postgraduate Training Director.
 An Ethics Committee oversees all research projects and ensures compliance with the University’s
 Ethics Policy, while the Department aligns with the University’s Research Integrity Policy and its
 commitment to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and the relevant Code of Conduct
 (see REF5a §2.2).

 The Department supports open access (OA) publication wherever possible, enacting ‘green’ OA
 publication through Durham Research Online and making eTheses available. Gold OA is secured
 wherever financially viable (e.g. Cook’s monograph Hearing Voices, funded by the Wellcome
 Trust).

 The Department’s research is located within the broader infrastructure of the Faculty of Arts and
 Humanities, enabled and supported by its Deputy-Executive Dean (DED) for Research and three
 Senior Research Administrators (SRAs). University professional support facilitates research from
 resourcing through to application, dissemination, and impact (see section 3; REF5a, §4.7).
 Interdisciplinary research is supported by University Institutes, with departmental initiatives
 emerging in dialogue with the Institute for Medieval and Early Modern Studies, the Institute for
 Advanced Study (IAS; see REF5a §2.1 and 2.5), and the Institute for Medical Humanities (Cook
 and A. Powell are on its Steering Group). University Research Centres outside the Department
 (notably the Durham Centre for Ancient and Medieval Philosophy, and the Centre for Visual Arts
 and Culture) also foster sustained engagement with cognate research.

 The Department’s close partnerships with Durham Cathedral and Cranmer Hall (Durham’s
 Anglican theological college) have enabled the endowed chair in Anglican Studies, the growth of
 the Doctorate in Theology and Ministry programme (DThM), and two new academic posts
 connected to the Church of England’s Common Awards programme. A strategic partnership
 between the University’s Libraries, the Cathedral and Ushaw College (the former Roman Catholic
 seminary, just outside Durham), (facilitated by Murray) has enabled the establishment of the
 Durham Residential Research Library (see section 3).




                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2 Achievement and Development of Strategic Aims since 2014
 The growth of the Department, both in staff numbers (from 25 to 28 permanent staff) and in
 external research funding (from £1.6m to £3.7m), has enabled it to meet or exceed aims set out
 in REF2014. These were: to produce world-leading research, both collaborative and individual,
 across our 3 subject areas; to attract increased external funding; to create two new Centres
 (Spirituality, Theology & Health; Anglican Studies); to expand the Centre for Catholic Studies in
 historical and socio-political studies and in its engagement with the Ushaw archives; to strengthen
 our postgraduate and postdoctoral communities; to expand the DThM and its contribution to
 Christian practice; and to develop new research trajectories (e.g. reception history in Biblical
 Studies; the sexual abuse crisis in the Catholic Church).

 1.2.1 Biblical Studies
 The Department has sustained its strengths in this field, developing interaction between research
 in New Testament and in early Christianity, intensifying the development of postgraduates, and
 extending external links across international scholarship and ecclesial engagement. Expertise in
 Hebrew Bible and Ancient Judaism has been sustained through the appointments of Janzen and
 Dochhorn (permanent staff replacing retirees), while the research of Watson, Heath, and Fowler
 (a fixed-term appointment), linking with expertise in patristics (Ayres), has created a strong hub
 in early Christian studies. Three research seminars (Old Testament; New Testament and early
 Christianity; Ancient Judaism), supplemented by reading groups in Coptic, Greek, and theological
 German, provide a scholarly foundation for early career researchers. Five Durham conferences
 during the REF period, co-organised with postgraduates, have generated publications that stretch
 the discipline and facilitate career development.

 A strategic partnership with Australian Catholic University, Melbourne has generated the cross-
 institutional project: ‘Texts, Traditions and Early Christian Identities’; a series of colloquia has
 already begun to produce publications.

 1.2.2 Christian Theology
 This area has been a focus of strategic growth, extending expertise in Catholic and Anglican
 traditions and developing ecclesial engagement. An increase from 12 to 18 full-time permanent
 staff has accompanied an increase in postdoctoral researchers.

 The establishment of the (permanently endowed) St Hilda Chair in Catholic Social Thought and
 Practice (now Rowlands) has paralleled appointments adding expertise in Catholic theology
 (Kilby), modern history (Snape) and in environmental (Grey), scientific (Oliver), and cultural
 spheres (Clemson and Powell) new to the Department. Research in early modern Catholic history
 (Kelly) complements Ryrie’s specialism in early Protestantism.

 Ecclesial engagement with Catholic and Anglican traditions lies behind 3 of the 4 impact case
 studies. Strong relationships with Durham Cathedral and Cranmer Hall have facilitated deepening
 engagement with the Anglican tradition, developed in the Centre for Anglican Studies, the newly
 endowed Vann Fellowship (Powers) and in Song’s contribution to strategic decisions on same-
 sex relations in the Church of England (see REF3). This has been strengthened by Durham’s
 leadership in the Common Awards accreditation of ministerial training (established 2014, renewed
 2019). Higton and Clemson direct the collaborative research dimensions of this network, while
 the appointment of Ward, with expertise in ethnography and ecclesiology, has led to a significant
 expansion in the DThM.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Six research seminars (Theology & Ethics; Catholic Theology; Anglican Studies; Patristics; History
 of Christianity [co-hosted with the History Department]; Spirituality, Theology & Health) provide a
 rich diet of research-explorations for staff and postgraduates. Two large-scale collaborative
 projects have arisen from staff engagement with Australian Catholic University: Insole as PI for a
 AU$1.5m philosophical and theological project on ‘Redeeming Autonomy’, and Ayres as PI (with
 Heath as CoI) for a AU$2.5m programme ‘Modes of Knowing’, covering the period 100-800 CE.

 1.2.3 Study of Religion
 Strategic redistribution of staff resource has enabled expansion in full-time permanent staff and
 research scope. The appointment of Quiroz has expanded geographical range (Latin America
 and West Africa), complementing specialisms in Britain and North America (Davies and Guest)
 and India (Miles-Watson). Expertise in anthropology and sociology enriches research and
 postgraduate supervision across the Department, while the seminar in Religion and Society
 provides a focal point for intersecting research. Pioneering cross-disciplinary research on death
 continues to thrive (Davies; Centre for Death and Life Studies), while ethnographic research on
 Christian identities in post-colonial contexts (Quiroz and Miles-Watson) enriches a vital subfield
 in the anthropology of religion. Guest has conducted (as PI or Co-I) two major externally funded
 projects on faith identities in university settings, focusing on chaplaincy support and perceptions
 of Islam and Muslims.

 1.2.4 The Four Centres
 The Department’s four research Centres enable research interaction across the three subject
 areas, the co-ordination of larger research programmes, and the development of impact-related
 partnerships with external stakeholders.

 The Centre for Death and Life Studies was founded in 2007 to develop research into cultural
 change around death and dying. Led by Davies, it has collaborated with colleagues in
 Archaeology on the externally-funded project ‘The Invisible Dead’. It has brought to Durham the
 Archives of the Cremation Society, and of the Federation of Burial and Cremation Authorities,
 conserved and catalogued with external funding, and already a magnet for research. The Centre’s
 extensive networks enable collaborative research on cremation, pet death (with the Veterinary
 School at Edinburgh), grief and bereavement. Growing engagement with local hospices and
 funeral directors - including within the Covid-19 context - highlight the significance of this work.

 The Centre for Catholic Studies (CCS), founded in 2007, is the world’s largest research forum for
 Catholic studies within the public, secular academy. Through extensive external fundraising it has
 acquired new permanent staff, notably the £1.7m funded St Hilda Chair in Catholic Social Thought
 and Practice (now Rowlands). It has employed ten postdoctoral researchers, from funds as
 diverse as the AHRC, the Conrad Hilton Foundation and La Retraite Sisters. With extensive
 networks in Europe and the USA, it has convened 20 international research conferences in
 Durham since 2014, including a biennial Early Modern British and Irish Catholicism conference
 and an annual conference for early career researchers.

 CCS research projects have developed in six areas: (i) Receptive Ecumenism, led by Murray,
 working alongside G. Thomas and Ryan, underpinning the international momentum of the Murray
 Impact Case Study; (ii) the History of English Catholicism (from 1500), utilizing the Ushaw
 archives, including research projects on Benedictine ‘Monks in Motion’ (Kelly, with Ryrie as Co-

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PI), and raising £250,000 for a Senior Research Fellowship for research on female religious
 orders; (iii) Love and Suffering (Kilby), involving research-led engagement with Catholic religious
 sisters (in the UK, Ireland and East Africa); (iv) Migration, Asylum and Catholic Social Teaching
 (Rowlands), engaging with politicians and charities (see REF3); (v) Theology and Spirituality, with
 postdoctoral projects on the visual arts (Powell) and popular spirituality during times of trauma
 (Biggs); and (vi) Boundary Breaking, on clerical sexual abuse, a project led by Pound, through
 which the CCS has become a founder member of the Rome-based global Catholic Safeguarding
 Alliance. These projects are supported by an externally funded administrative infrastructure, and
 engage extensively with external stakeholders, leading to multiple forms of impact.

 The Michael Ramsey Centre for Anglican Studies (founded 2016) promotes interdisciplinary
 research into the multi-faceted global Anglican tradition. With a £2m Cathedral-based endowment
 of the new chair (Snape), it connects researchers in the Department (Higton, Oliver, Moberly,
 Song, and Ryrie) with colleagues across the University. The externally funded Vann Fellowship
 (Powers) extends expertise in the intersection between church, theology and war. Higton, Oliver,
 and Song participate in policy-making bodies for the Church of England (Ethical Investment) and
 the Anglican Communion (Faith and Order).

 The Centre for Spirituality, Theology & Health (initiated as a project in 2005, founded as a Centre
 in 2018) fosters interdisciplinary research connecting theology and spirituality to research and
 clinical practice in health and social care. Cook was Co-investigator on the ‘Hearing the Voice’
 Project, recipient of the 2020 AHRC prize for Best Research in Medical Humanities, leading to his
 monograph and Impact Case Study. Its research seminar series, instituted in 2010, connects the
 Department to research in the social, biological and health sciences, as well as to the wider field
 of medical humanities (the Centre maintaining close links with the Institute for Medical
 Humanities). These seminars provide an important interface with clinical and pastoral practice,
 thus emphasising both the impact of research outside academia and the importance of practice
 for informing research.

 1.3 Future Research and Impact Strategy
 The Department seeks to sustain and develop its contribution to international research with the
 following objectives:

    1. To deepen the intensity of research through:
          o the new one-year-in-five research leave policy;
          o securing further research funding, from diverse sources;
          o securing funding for doctoral and postdoctoral projects that interweave with staff
             research.

 For instance, building on research momentum in the history of religious communities, projects in
 the pipeline are funded by the Capuchin Franciscans and the La Retraite Sisters. Guest’s
 research on religion among students has attracted a further £200,000 to fund an international
 collaboration with US colleagues on orientations to worldview diversity in UK universities.

    2. To develop research synergies that enrich and widen the significance of research through:
          o developing cross-disciplinary research seminars into publications and collaborative
             research projects;
          o leading collaborative research, both nationally and internationally;

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            o   developing online platforms to enhance global participation and collaboration;
            o   enabling all researchers to contribute to and benefit from an open-access research
                environment.

 For instance, the leadership of Durham staff with ACU projects is set to continue, while the
 pandemic has accelerated development of international collaborations via research seminars and
 online conferences.

    3. To foster the national and international impact of our research, shaping discourse in
       multiple spheres (especially politics, the public sector and faith communities). The strategy
       is to encourage multiple forms of extended engagement, from which research-based
       impact will develop. The means include:
           o support (in teaching and administrative relief) and recognition (in promotion
               processes) for staff time on public engagement;
           o enabling impact via postgraduate research, through investment and expansion of
               the DThM programme, and engaging with the AHRC-funded placement scheme;
           o development of the Centres as hubs of engagement with external bodies;

 For instance, Ward’s post is to be made full-time, resourcing further development of the DThM
 programme, of which he is Director (see section 2).

    4. To increase the scope and diversity of our research through:
           o externally funded posts, extending into Islamic Studies;
           o expanding the diversity of perspectives across research areas through appointment
              of more diverse staff (permanent and fixed-term);

 The Department has been instrumental in planning a cross-Faculty initiative in Islamic Studies,
 including a full-time Departmental post in Islam.

 Section 2. People
 2.1 Staffing Strategy and staff development
 Since the Department is well-networked internationally and has never been outside the top 5 for
 the subject area in the QS World Rankings, it attracts strong applications, and has recently
 appointed scholars from North America, Central America, continental Europe and the UK. The
 recruitment strategy has been to sustain strengths in long-established fields of expertise (with at
 least one professor in each research area, and in leadership of each Centre), while developing
 promising new lines of research. Accordingly, appointments have been made across all levels,
 from professors (e.g. Oliver, Snape, Kilby) to early career permanent (e.g. Quiroz, Clemson,
 Grey) and fixed-term staff (e.g. Fowler, Powers, Begadon). The size of the Department ensures
 that succession in leadership can take place internally (through career development).

 Recruitment includes a rigorous search policy, in line with University policies (see REF5a §3.1.2
 & 3.2), with close attention to issues of equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI); all interview
 panellists are trained about unconscious bias. The Department has implemented a range of
 initiatives to redress its inherited gender imbalance (see 2.3), and these have had some marked
 success. In REF2014, out of 25 Category A staff, 2 (8%) were female; by contrast in 2020, of 37
 Category A staff, 9.5 FTE (26%) are female.


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Support for staff development accords with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers (revised 2019). All members of staff have a peer mentor who meets with them
 annually for an open-ended, holistic and pastoral discussion about their career progression, with
 an appropriately anonymous ‘feedback loop’ to the Management Committee. New members of
 staff have a mentor, with whom they meet frequently (every two to three weeks) for their first year
 (the probation year), as well as induction and regular review meetings with the Head of
 Department. Equitable distribution of workloads is overseen by the Head of Department, with care
 taken to ensure that the need for gender diversity on appointment panels and other roles does not
 leave female staff disproportionately burdened or side-lined from leadership roles.

 Staff progression is reviewed annually by the Department’s Progression and Promotion
 Committee, which is supported by an HR specialist. Instead of leaving applications for promotion
 to staff initiative, which produces well-documented gender inequities, the University’s policy (see
 REF5a, §3.1.2) requires all academic staff annually to submit a template CV, including impact
 activities. All are considered for promotion and given feedback on their professional progression
 by an experienced academic mentor. An annual departmental workshop on promotion is available
 for all staff. Between 2014-20, the Department has enjoyed wide success in the University’s
 promotions rounds, with 18 staff progressions through the Assistant-Associate-Full Professor
 scale.

 The Director of Research meets all staff individually every year to discuss research ambitions, to
 review funding opportunities, to advise on pathways to impact and other forms of engagement,
 and to address support needs (such as research or impact assistance, or research leave). As well
 as supporting staff in pursuing core research funding such as that offered by UKRI, our extensive
 experience in working with third-sector partners has made it possible to support staff in securing
 other forms of research funding. In part with a view to EDI, all staff are asked, both in these
 meetings and by anonymous questionnaire, how the Department could better support their
 research: remedies have included additional research leave or funding, lighter administrative
 duties, peer review of draft publications, and group peer review of draft grant applications. This
 cross-departmental, fine-grained knowledge means that specific concerns and opportunities for
 synergies are addressed at the termly Department Research Committee, which includes the Head
 of Department and other experienced staff spanning the Department’s research areas.

 Early career staff are given a lighter teaching load in their first year (70% of the standard workload,
 tapering to 80% in the second, and 90% in the third year). All staff are eligible to apply for University
 Seedcorn and Impact funding and are encouraged to make use of research training supplied by
 the Durham Centre for Academic Development (DCAD) (see REF5a, section §2). Fixed-term staff
 are mentored on the same terms as all academic staff, with particular attention to career
 trajectories. During the REF period, the Department has appointed 16 postdoctoral researchers
 and has made all appointments on the full Academic Track (we have appointed no ‘Teaching
 Fellows’), on contracts lasting no less than 12-months. We are proud that most (13) have been
 able to secure academic jobs elsewhere (10 of them permanent), if they could not be retained in
 Durham.

 Since 2019, thanks to increased staff numbers and careful planning of teaching responsibilities,
 the Department has allowed staff to apply for a full year’s research leave every five years, rather
 than the University’s standard policy of one term in seven. (The one-term-in-seven option – pro
 rata for part-time staff – remains for those requesting more frequent leave, or on shorter contracts.)

                                                                                                   Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff are also enabled to dedicate one day in each teaching week to research. Staff are
 encouraged to test their research at one of the research seminars; at the Annual Away Day
 colleagues report on research, with some invited also to reflect upon areas of difficulty, or
 methodological uncertainty, either to model ways in which they overcame these difficulties, or to
 seek the collective counsel of the Department. Once a month, a gathering of staff respond to a
 colleague’s informal presentation of research in progress with critical feedback. The Centre for
 Catholic Studies also runs an annual two-day residential retreat, which enables extended
 discussion of research.

 The alignment of research and impact is embedded in the working culture of the Department,
 enabled especially via the external relationships fostered by its four Centres. Staff report on impact
 in annual review, and impact activities are a significant factor in consideration of promotion, and
 in targeted reduction of administrative or teaching duties (e.g. reduction of teaching-load for
 Rowlands while delivering a course for an all-party Parliamentary Group). As impact case studies
 develop, staff are freed entirely from administrative roles, and are supported by Impact Assistants,
 funded by the Faculty.

 2.2 Research students
 The Department’s strategy to provide an international centre for training researchers has been
 sustained and fulfilled throughout the REF period. 166 PGRs have graduated with doctorates, and
 there are currently 196 postgraduates, from 28 different nations. The aim to strengthen the
 postgraduate community and expand the DThM has been well met. PGR provision falls within 4
 programmes:
     1. MA and MLitt (assessed by thesis)
     2. PhD
     3. iPhD (Integrated PhD: 1-year taught at Masters level, followed by 3 years of full-time
        research, or part-time equivalent)
     4. DThM (professional doctorate in Theology and Ministry)




 While PhD figures have declined slightly (due to better completion rates and more stringent
 admissions processes), iPhD recruitment has tripled, and DThM numbers (40% of whom are
 international) have risen significantly. Both reflect an effort to recruit more PGRs from diverse

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international contexts, while DThM research is required to demonstrate ministerial outcomes, as
 a pathway to impact. The proportion of part-time students has risen from 53.92% to 60.20%,
 alongside enhanced provision for distance learning, aiming to attract more students from under-
 represented groups, including those with caring responsibilities. Even before the COVID-19
 pandemic, video-conferenced supervision and examination were common, and the process of
 opening all research seminars to remote participants was already under way. The 4-year iPhD is
 designed for overseas students who require predoctoral training, and eases obstacles to
 recruitment posed by immigration requirements.

 Over the REF period the CCS has raised £629,000 for postgraduate scholarships from charities
 and trusts, benefitting 59 PGRs working across subject areas. Five PGRs have secured full
 scholarships covering fees and living expenses from the University-funded Durham Doctoral
 Studentships, which are open to students regardless of national origin, and eight from the AHRC-
 funded (now 7-partner) Northern Bridge Doctoral Training Partnership (NBDTP). Three of these
 students have undertaken placements as part of their programme. For NBDTP students, the
 University supplements funded fees with full living-expenses and encourages work placements to
 enhance employability. While the UK remained an EU member, the NBDTP supported EU
 students on the same basis as home students; from 2020 onwards it is open to all students
 regardless of residence. As predoctoral training, the University offers tuition-fees scholarships for
 select MA students, of which we have received eight.

 Induction and Integration: The Department organises a peer-mentoring scheme for new
 postgraduates. PGRs are offered personal workspaces in and adjoining our buildings and have
 access to 70 workspaces in the nearby Faculty Postgraduate Hub. EDI considerations (e.g.
 disability and family conditions) are key to this allocation. All PGRs are allocated departmental
 funds for research expenses (up to £1,450 in one year) and inter-library loans (up to £60 per PGR),
 and they may apply to the Faculty Postgraduate Research Fund to support research expenses
 (during the REF cycle, £50,927 was awarded). Durham’s collegiate system, in which all
 postgraduates are placed, provides pastoral support and several well-stocked theological libraries.
 Postgraduates share a common room with staff, are invited to regular staff-student coffee hours,
 and are welcome at all lectures and research seminars. They are expected to attend at least one
 departmental seminar regularly, and to present their research there when ready to do so. PGR
 representatives are voting members of all the major Departmental committees.

 Monitoring and support: All PGRs are accorded (at least) two supervisors; at induction,
 supervisory teams (which often cross subject areas) clarify the roles of each supervisor. Where
 appropriate, supervision is shared across Durham Departments (currently three students) and
 across HEIs (currently four students). Full-time PGRs receive a minimum of 20 hours of
 supervision per annum: records are kept of each supervision, with causes for concern noted by
 the Department’s Education Committee. After 9 months full-time / 15 months part-time study, a
 formal progression review is held by two further staff, providing detailed feedback as well as
 ensuring adequate progress. Regular annual reviews thereafter monitor progress with a view to
 ensuring the timely completion of a viable thesis. The vast majority (c. 70%) of full-time PGRs
 submit within four years. Any failure in the intended degree triggers a formal review led by the
 Director of Postgraduates. Each year the University issues 2-3 Awards for Excellence in Doctoral
 Supervision: during the REF period three members of the Department have received them.




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Training: All PGRs undertake an annual Training Needs Analysis, identifying skills or
 competencies required for their research and career development. Methodological training is
 provided in-house through the auditing of taught modules (e.g. in hermeneutics or social-scientific
 methods); DThM students attend an initial research-training week and annual summer school. The
 Postgraduate Training Director oversees a staff-led programme including language reading
 groups, job interview preparation, and seminars on publishing, CV writing, presentation skills, and
 careers. DCAD (see REF5a §3.4) offers a substantial menu of generic training for postgraduates,
 while the Centre for Foreign Language Study, IMEMS and other University bodies provide training
 in languages, palaeography and other specialist skills.

 Career Development: PGRs are routinely encouraged to present papers at major conferences
 such as AAR/SBL, and the Department regularly hosts PGR conferences (e.g. in New Testament,
 every 3 years). The CCS has held an annual international postgraduate and early career
 conference since 2014. Bespoke conferences are regularly co-organised by staff and PGRs, often
 leading to co-edited books (see above, 1.2.1). Departmental staff have also contributed to national
 training events for PGRs (e.g. Guest at the postgraduate conference of the British and Irish
 Association for Practical Theology (2016).

 The Department runs an endowment-funded Research Assistant scheme, in which 10-15 PhD
 students each year are paid for two hours per week of subject-specific research assistance for a
 member of staff, giving them further experience of academic life. Most PGRs have the opportunity
 to act as Teaching Assistants, for which they receive University and Departmental training,
 together with mentoring, observation and feedback. Through this, more than 25 PhD students
 have secured a Durham Learning and Teaching Award, which carries associate membership of
 the Higher Education Academy. Staff also support PGRs in pursuing publication of their
 doctorates. During the REF period 166 PGRs have graduated with doctorates. At least 28 have
 had their doctoral research published in monograph or articles (one winning an award from the
 Wesleyan Theological Society, another a Manfred Lautenschläger Award). More than 40 have
 secured academic employment, five in the UK, others across the world (Australia, Canada,
 Finland, Malaysia, Portugal, Singapore, Turkey and the USA).

 2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 EDI has been an important focus for the Department during the REF period. In 2013 three staff
 members (Guest, Sharma and Song) authored ‘Gender and Career Progression in Theology and
 Religious Studies’ (sponsored by the HEA’s Subject Centre). This evidenced the gender inequality
 in the discipline at postgraduate and staff levels and has inspired a range of interventions among
 subject associations: its impact includes culture change within the Society for the Study of
 Theology (extending now from gender to BAME representation on its Executive Committee) and
 a peer-to-peer mentoring scheme established by the BSA’s Sociology of Religion Study Group
 (used as model for other subject associations by TRS-UK). The report has also been an important
 reference point both in the UK (e.g. the British Academy and TRS-UK) and in international
 discussions (e.g. speaking invitations for Guest at Uppsala and Yale). While the Department’s
 strongest focus has been on gender inequality, we are addressing other dimensions of inequality
 and exclusion (for example, of those with caring responsibilities) and have established a network
 for students and scholars who are the first in their families to attend university.

 In 2018 the Department was successful at its first attempt in applying for the Athena SWAN Bronze
 Award. The feedback commended the Department for its honest approach to self-assessment, its

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 awareness of its considerable challenges, and its commitment to change. The Department has
 since established an EDI Committee, chaired by a recent Head of Department, with
 representatives from academic staff, undergraduates, postgraduates, part-time teaching staff, and
 support staff. In line with University policy (see REF5a §3.2), its remit includes not just the Equality
 Act 2010’s protected characteristics, but other forms of potential exclusion, including socio-
 economic background and limitations in the curriculum. It has recently established a Departmental
 LBGT+ network and started an initiative on race inspired by the Royal Historical Society. EDI is a
 standing item on the agenda of all core Departmental meetings.

 In terms of gender, during this REF cycle the Department has increased its proportion of women
 staff from 14 to 26%, yet has a low proportion of women at the highest levels of seniority (see
 chart 2).




 While these figures are not untypical for Theology and Religion departments nationally, this
 situation requires long-term culture change. Recruitment and promotion policies have been
 changed to address this issue (see above, 2.1). The Department supports flexible working
 wherever possible and is developing a department-specific policy on maternity and paternity leave,
 including Keeping-In-Touch. For colleagues with child-care responsibilities, our policy is that no
 major decisions are taken by Department committees outside the hours of 10am-4pm, and that
 research seminars meet within those hours if possible. Increased efforts are being made to ensure
 that women chair major committees, whilst not being unfairly disadvantaged by workload
 imbalance. All staff are given training on unconscious bias, and policies on harassment, bullying,
 and staff sexual violence and misconduct, together with contact members of staff, are displayed
 on the departmental website. The unique Café des Theologiennes, a network active since 2013,
 supports women staff and postgraduates through informal social events and seminars on research
 and professional development.

 Adhering to Durham’s Code of Practice (IET), EDI issues featured throughout the preparation of
 the Department’s REF submission. Early-stage modelling by the University’s REF Strategy
 Committee monitored inclusion of staff with protected characteristics, enabling any imbalances to

                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 be rectified or built into plans for longer-term change. A Departmental policy document on output
 selection was scrutinised and approved by its EDI Committee, and its Research Committee
 examined iterative drafts of all REF documents with EDI concerns part of its remit. All category A
 staff were consulted at the provisional stage of output planning, with workloads adjusted to support
 early career staff and those with protected characteristics in completing potentially excellent
 publications. Relative distribution of outputs between staff is not a metric that impacts on
 progression, contractual status, or performance management.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1: Income generation and strategy
 Over the current REF cycle, the Department has generated significant research funding and
 continued to diversify income streams, establishing a more secure long-term funding strategy.
 Reflecting its strategic aims (see 1.1), its working culture has encouraged and enabled colleagues
 to conduct ambitious, publicly funded research, while developing long-term relationships with
 external stakeholders, enabling research-with-impact that establishes bases for further funded
 research.

 Compared to the previous REF period, external research income has increased by over 100%,
 from £1.6m to £3.7m (see chart 3). Diversification has resulted in a proportional reduction in
 dependence on UKRI Research Councils (now 11.3% of the total), with a range of charities and
 trusts now providing 47.8%. Over 45% of research income has come from non-UK sources,
 reflecting an expansion of international networks of co-researchers and stakeholder groups.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Through peer-review and mentoring, staff are supported in building grant applications into future
 research plans. Our approach to generating external research income has three strands:

    (i)     Building long-term relationships with external funders
            Consonant with its concern with wider engagement, the Department has built
            connections with multiple religious organisations. Supported by a dedicated
            Development Officer, since 2014, the CCS has raised a £1,714,880 endowment for the
            St Hilda Chair in Catholic Social Teaching (held by Hayes and Rowlands), and
            £250,000 towards the cost of a permanent Senior Research Fellowship in the History
            of Catholicism. The Michael Ramsey Centre for Anglican Studies has, with the support
            of the University’s Development and Alumni Relations Office (DARO), secured over
            £130,000 to fund the first 3-year cycle (2018-21) of the Vann Fellowship. Further
            research into faith and conflict has been assisted by a £16,000 grant from the Museum
            of Army Chaplaincy. Both projects have strengthened relationships with UK and US
            chaplaincy services and facilitated impact among both countries’ armed forces. In
            2019, Durham’s Common Awards contract with the Church of England was renewed
            (£696,000 per annum, with £214,000 coming to the Department), funding two
            permanent posts in the Department (Clemson, Higton), as well as a five-year post-
            doctoral fellowship in theological education (Parker).

            One benefit of links with faith communities has been funding for a series of early-career
            research posts, including in early modern British Catholicism (H. Thomas, three years;
            Begadon, two years; Ensley, one year); ecumenism (G. Thomas, two years; Ryan,
            three years); Catholic social thought and practice (Exall, two years); and clerical sexual
            abuse (Boletta, three years). The recently advertised three-year Postdoctoral
            Fellowship in the History of Catholicism has been funded by the Capuchin Franciscans
            of Great Britain, with whom the CCS has built a long-term partnership. Funding for five
            further post-doctoral research posts is being finalised.

    (ii)    Harnessing potential of major collaborative research funding
            The Department has continued its pre-2014 engagement with opportunities to develop
            large-scale collaborative research. Guest’s AHRC/ESRC large grant (Christianity and
            the University Experience, 2009-12; £334,000) laid the foundations for the
            Representing Islam on Campus and Chaplains on Campus projects, funded by the
            AHRC and Church of England respectively, and totalling over £800,000 of research
            funding across five universities. Watson and Barclay were Lead Chief Investigators
            on the large-scale collaborative project ‘Texts, Traditions, and Early Christian Identities’
            (2016-20, AU$5m), which secured funding from ACU (Melbourne) for four Melbourne-
            based postdoctoral researchers and a series of Rome conferences. Rowlands, with
            colleagues from UCL, UEA, Queen Margaret University, DFID and Columbia University
            secured £800,000 from the AHRC/ERSC for the ‘Refugee Hosts’ project.

    (iii)   Linking together multiple sources of external and internal support
            Staff research strategies have been advanced and strengthened through the
            integration of external and internal resources. Since 2014 the Centre for Death and Life
            Studies (resourced by an annual Faculty grant of £1,000) has secured ESRC Research
            Seminar Funding for a series on ‘Encountering the Corpse Today’ (£12,000 for

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            Durham, working with colleagues from Bath, Hull, MMU and UWE), £19,000 from the
            Wellcome Trust for conservation and cataloguing of the Archive of the Cremation
            Society of Great Britain, held at Durham, and £6,200 from the Cremation Society for
            the COVID-19 Cremation project. Higton’s work on The Life of Christian
            Doctrine (2020) benefitted from an internal Seedcorn grant of £760 and a grant of
            £35,000 from the ‘Varieties of Understanding’ project at Fordham University, New
            York, funded by the Templeton Foundation. The former enabled a survey of
            approaches to teaching doctrine in Church of England training institutions; the latter
            funded a series of seminars with visiting speakers. Collaborating with colleagues in
            English and Psychology, Cook is one of five co-investigators on the Wellcome-funded
            ‘Hearing the Voice Project’ (£2.9m, 2015-20), bringing theological expertise to an
            ambitious interdisciplinary initiative.

 3.2: Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact
 The Director of Research, who serves on the Department’s Management Committee and Faculty
 Research Committee, is responsible for oversight of research culture and maintaining support for
 staff research in collaboration with the University’s Research and Innovation Services (RIS). This
 includes nurturing high-quality grant applications and sharing best practice. The Director of
 Research reviews draft proposals, consults specialist colleagues and convenes peer-review
 seminars on drafts. Revised applications are reviewed at Faculty level by colleagues from across
 disciplines in Arts and Humanities. RIS also convenes regular grant-writing workshops.

 In line with University policy (see REF5a, §2.2), all academic staff have access to an annual
 research allowance of £1,000 to fund conference participation, archival research, fieldwork or
 specialist IT equipment. In 2014-20 the Faculty allocated over £1.1m to support individual research
 and strategic research initiatives. Faculty research funding of up to £1,500 per person is available
 to support, e.g., international conference participation and archive visits. The Department received
 £60,646 of such Faculty funding over the REF period, typically shared between about ten staff per
 year. The University’s research incentivisation scheme (see REF5a §2) has been instrumental in
 supporting the costs of external speakers and so sustaining research seminars. Project
 development is assisted by University Seedcorn funding for the preparation of major grant
 applications (£51,249 over the REF period, benefitting research by Clemson, Davies, Guest,
 Phillips and Ryrie); small grants are available through University institutes and the Department
 has received £11,390 since 2014 from IMEMS and the Wolfson Research Institute for Health and
 Wellbeing.

 One academic staff member serves as Impact Coordinator, overseeing the development of
 research-related impact across the Department and development of impact case studies. The
 latter are led by subject specialists with administrative support from paid Impact Assistants, funded
 by the Faculty (£7,708 during this REF cycle); the University’s Research Impact Fund has provided
 a further £31,063. External funding has also generated focused research impact, and some
 endowed posts have impact built into their contract as a reciprocal arrangement with their
 sponsors. Kilby, as Bede Professor, serves as theological advisor to the local Catholic Bishop,
 speaks at diocesan and parish events, and engages with teachers and students at RC schools.
 Oliver, part-funded by Durham Cathedral, is founding Director of the Durham Cathedral Institute
 for Public Engagement and consults regularly with Church of England theological commissions.
 Together with Rowlands’ post, these amount to a 0.6FTE resource that is outward-facing.


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department’s experience is that impact activity generates further research possibilities.
 Kilby’s research on suffering responds to the situation of, and is funded by, the RC religious
 community of the La Retraite sisters; Guest’s research into university chaplaincy arose out of
 impact workshops convened as part of the ‘Christianity and the University Experience’ project, at
 which chaplains sought empirical investigation into their changing role, leading to a national project
 funded by the Church of England’s Church Universities Fund.

 3.3: Operational and scholarly infrastructure
 An extensive team of professional specialists support research at Departmental, Faculty and
 University level. A departmental administrator oversees staff research requirements, with a further
 post supporting postgraduate research students. The CCS also receives research support from
 two employed administrators (one full-time, one part-time). The Faculty research hub, established
 2019, includes 2.5 SRAs, providing subject-specific support in the management and development
 of research initiatives. Theology and Religion has designated pre- and post-award support from
 RIS-based colleagues in identifying appropriate funding streams, developing grant proposals and
 costing research projects (see REF5a §4.6). The Department has also benefitted from a close
 working-relationship with DARO, which supports our efforts in creating and sustaining links with
 external funding bodies. The Common Awards network is administered by the University’s central
 Learning and Assessment Service. Engagement activities are regularly hosted by Cranmer Hall,
 the University’s Catholic Chaplaincy and Durham Cathedral.

 A full-time Faculty impact manager oversees initiatives in building and developing research
 impact, working in collaboration with a Faculty Impact committee comprising departmental impact
 coordinators, professional support staff and the DED (Research). Impact case studies are subject
 to long-term oversight by this group, and to critical review by a Faculty-level panel comprising
 senior academics, professional support staff and external research users.

 The University Library consults closely with the Department on purchases and priorities. A
 member of academic staff serves as Library Officer and meets regularly with the Faculty Librarian
 for Arts and Humanities; the Librarian sits on departmental committees to ensure research needs
 are met. A dedicated team of University Library staff work with academics to meet open access
 compliance, REF publications submissions and offer guidance on bibliometrics. Book and journal
 expenditure for Theology and Religion rose from £63,169 in 2015-16 to £94,700 by 2019-20. This
 included in 2019-20 over 130 journal titles and databases in addition to centrally-funded
 multidisciplinary journal collections. The Library’s Archives and Special Collections include major
 collections of rare books in the Bishop Cosin, Routh and Bamburgh libraries, with strengths in
 church history, liturgy, patristics and missionary history; Durham Cathedral hosts perhaps the UK’s
 most extensive surviving medieval monastic library; and the library of Ushaw College has
 extensive collections with particular strengths in 17th-19th century controversial and pamphlet
 literature. Together the three institutions house 5.3km of archives. Kelly used Ushaw’s Poor Clare
 archive extensively for his monograph English Convents in Catholic Europe, 1600-1800, with the
 collections also enabling research by Biggs, Powers and Ryrie.

 The Durham Residential Research Library (DRRL) was established in 2018 as a partnership
 between Durham University, Durham Cathedral and Ushaw College, aiming to make the three
 collections available for broader scholarship. The DRRL was founded under Murray’s leadership,
 and Kelly sits on the DRRL steering group, coordinating the visiting (one to three month)
 fellowship scheme. This includes honoraria (£1,800 per month, plus PhD bursaries of £540) to

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support travel and subsistence, of visiting researchers. Fellows have already been attracted from
 Australia, Canada, France, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Pakistan, and the USA, as well as the UK, and
 routinely participate in research seminars while in Durham.

 As remote working becomes more commonplace, the University’s ‘MDS Anywhere’ facility has
 enabled all staff universal access to an extensive suite of software to support development of
 research grant applications (Worktribe), research collaboration across sites and institutions
 (Microsoft Teams and Zoom), as well as specialist data analysis software (e.g. SPSS, N-Vivo).
 The fact that these systems were already in place when the COVID-19 pandemic began meant
 the University was ready for research activity to transition relatively seamlessly to a world of online
 research seminars, book launches, conferences, and postgraduate support and mentoring.

 The Department remains based in two buildings on Durham’s UNESCO World Heritage Site, with
 offices also in nearby St John’s/Cranmer Hall and in the ‘College’ (the Cathedral precinct). All full-
 time staff have sole occupied office space. After the pandemic on-site seminar and staff rooms
 will once again facilitate shared discussion and a cherished collegial research culture.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 The Department’s open, critical, but sympathetic attention to multiple traditions, and its aim to
 shape academic and public discourse (see 1.1), has created a working culture oriented to
 collaboration and engagement, seeking to make a positive contribution to wider society.

 4.1: Arrangements for Supporting Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
 Collaborative research and impact is facilitated by collective planning, aided by the Departmental
 Research Committee and research centres, and by staff members’ relationships with co-
 researchers, research users and stakeholders. It is enabled by policy and practice related to three
 mutually supportive dimensions of research.

    1. Modelling enterprising scholarship. Departmental experience has underlined the benefits
       of an approach that is ambitious in challenging established assumptions and creative in
       securing opportunities to enable research to emerge and thrive. This has been essential
       to realising core goals (see 1.1) and has been strengthened by the Department’s
       relationship building with religious traditions and third sector organisations who form the
       stakeholders of much of its research.

    2. Mentoring and disseminating best practice. As individual and organisational exemplars of
       (1) have become established and embedded, a cross-fertilisation of experience, skills and
       social capital has generated fresh research and impact. Mentoring between senior and
       early career colleagues forms a major interface for this, alongside a general culture of
       collegiality and collaboration fostered in Departmental meetings and seminars.

    3. Resourcing activity. Initiatives need financial resourcing, and a range of channels are
       available for initial stage research at Departmental, Faculty and University levels (see 3.2).
       Colleagues are assisted by RIS and DARO although opportunities are also secured via
       networks and relationships forged by academic staff. In this sense, success has generated
       further opportunities, but only because key relationships have been nurtured, research and
       impact has been of proven and sustained high quality, and staff have maintained a working
       culture of collaborative scholarship.

                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 This ethos is reinforced and advanced by the research centres, which form foci for collaborative,
 interdisciplinary research and impact within and beyond Durham. These centres have nurtured
 collaborative grant applications and post-doctoral fellowships (see Section 3), joint conferences,
 research impact and a variety of publications. Centre-focused research has drawn on international
 networks, as when partner bodies in Australia (academic and ecclesial) collaborated to organise
 the International Receptive Ecumenism Conference in 2017, at which Murray was the keynote
 speaker and the CCS the organisational axis. Networks and stakeholder relationships also
 generate fresh research opportunities. The Michael Ramsey Centre for Anglican Studies
 collaborates with national and international external partners; Durham Cathedral, the Scott
 Holland Trust, which focuses on Anglican engagement with social and economic affairs, and the
 UK’s Armed Forces Chaplaincy Centre have all co-operated in the resourcing and organisation of
 the Centre’s conferences and symposia. International partners include the Anglican Communion
 Office (ACO), which organises and sponsors a sub-strand of the Centre’s seminar programme.

 Long-established links with UK churches have facilitated opportunities for research impact, with
 staff serving in expert roles on numerous committees. Oliver serves on the Inter-Anglican
 Standing Commission on Unity Faith and Order (promoting relationships between churches within
 and beyond the Anglican communion); Grey has worked with the Catholic Bishops’ Conference
 of England and Wales in shaping their environmental policy.

 A fresh opportunity to build and enrich research networks emerged in 2012, when Durham
 University became the single validation partner for the Church of England’s ordination training,
 with student cohorts across 19 theological HEIs (TEIs) from 2014. The ‘Common Awards’
 partnership includes a programme of collaborative research conversations drawing in Durham
 academics, staff from partner TEIs, and other parties, facilitated via an annual conference of
 theological educators, research symposia, and in research projects conducted by staff at TEIs but
 overseen by Durham and funded by Common Awards grants. Departmental staff contribute to
 these events alongside other academics and expert practitioners. All of the above are funded by
 church partners, the programme led by Higton in a church-funded professorial post.

 4.2: Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences
 The work of the 4 research centres includes a range of research users and beneficiaries, through
 which multiple collaborations support impact and engagement. For example, the CCS has fostered
 strong collaborative relationships with The La Retraite Sisters – funders and users of its research
 – and with the local Roman Catholic Diocese of Hexham & Newcastle, which has commissioned,
 informed and engaged with multiple strands of research emerging from the CCS. The CDLS has
 forged enduring relationships with private sector organisations involved in the emerging
 resomation process of body disposal, with Davies serving as expert advisor and collaborator with
 those responsible for managing the industrial, scientific, social, moral and religious implications of
 a radically new technology. Besides the work profiled in impact case studies, Cook’s work on
 theology and mental health led to an invitation from the Archbishop of Canterbury to serve as a
 plenary speaker at a consultation on mental health in 2019, facilitating exploration of how the
 Church of England and its partner organisations can support people with mental disorders.
 Rowlands has delivered courses on Christian Social Thought to members of the UK Houses of
 Parliament, informed by her research. She was a prime respondent to the latest papal encyclical,
 Fratelli Tutti and has accepted an invitation to join the Vatican’s Dicastery for Integral Human
 Development. Kilby is trustee and theological advisor to the Catholic Agency for Overseas

                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Development (CAFOD); Grey was awarded a Visiting Fellowship at the Laudato Si' Research
 Institute, Oxford; Snape is official historian of the Royal Army Chaplains’ Department.

 4.3: Wider Impact
 Beyond the 4 impact case studies, Departmental staff are actively involved in collaboration and
 consultation with policymakers. Cook has held honorary and substantive posts with NHS services
 and is an executive member of the Spirituality and Psychiatry Special Interest Group at the Royal
 College of Psychiatrists; internationally his work has been recognized by the American Psychiatric
 Association’s Oskar Pfister Award (2020). Davies is an Honorary Vice-President of The Cremation
 Society of Great Britain. Song’s research has led to his being invited to serve on the Church of
 England’s Ethical Investment Advisory Group (EIAG), advising the Church Commissioners
 (responsible for £8.3bn), and the Church’s Pensions Board (£2.3bn).

 Departmental research impact has also been facilitated via a series of consultancy projects, many
 oriented to issues of church growth and development in times of uncertainty. The CCS’s close
 links to the RC Diocese of Hexham and Newcastle led to staff being commissioned to assist in a
 Diocesan review of parish life, Guest advising on data gathering and analysis and Kilby advising
 on theological interpretation of findings. Guest also partnered with the Bible Society and private
 research company Research by Design on a project on motivations for church involvement among
 young people across the UK. The National Board of Catholic Women funded a CCS project on
 women’s experiences of the churches across denominations in England, led by Thomas. Beyond
 church contexts, Kelly has supplied historical advice to the BBC’s Call the Midwife and The
 Musketeers, and ITV’s Grantchester.

 Several research strands are already exhibiting signs of long-term impact potential and are being
 developed as embryonic impact case studies. Guest’s research into the resourcing and impact of
 UK university chaplains has been taken up as a professional development resource. During 2019,
 over 200 chaplains took part in five impact-oriented workshops across the UK and Ireland and the
 underpinning research was a major source for the Church of England’s 2020 vision document
 Faith in Higher Education. Snape’s research on military chaplaincy has already attracted £15,000
 in AHRC funding for an oral history project involving British Army chaplains who served in
 Afghanistan, and £15,000 from the Museum of Army chaplaincy for research into religious life in
 the British Army from the 1950s to the present.

 4.4: Engagement with diverse communities and publics
 The Department sees engagement with wider public discourse in the UK and worldwide as being
 both valuable and a pathway to impact and outward-facing research. Most staff regularly deliver
 public lectures to audiences across the UK and in countries including Australia, Canada, Germany,
 the Netherlands, Russia and the USA; Ryrie’s roles at Gresham College (2015-17, 2018-22)
 involve public lecturing with online audiences in the tens of thousands. Staff write for mass-market
 publications, ranging from the Church Times and Tablet, through the Times Literary Supplement
 and major international periodicals such as Commonweal, to all of the daily UK broadsheets. There
 are many podcasts, blogs and radio and television interviews, UK and international, some of them
 substantial: Rowlands’ three blogs for the Australian Broadcasting Corporation on social and
 moral responses to the COVID-19 pandemic reached over 260,000 readers in their first month,
 illustrating how the Department’s outward-facing ethos makes it well-placed to engage with
 developing news stories. Davies’ expertise on death and dying also made him a prominent voice

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 during the pandemic, in media from the BBC and Financial Times to China Global TV. The
 anniversaries of the Protestant Reformation and of the First World War led to a slew of media
 engagements for Ryrie and Snape respectively. Some staff engage with mass media more
 proactively. Rowlands is a regular presenter of BBC R4 Thought for the Day; Ryrie presented an
 episode of Archive on Four in 2020; Cook’s address on mental health at Lambeth Palace, 2019,
 led to significant social-media engagement, with his reflections receiving over 2.1m views; a series
 of podcasts followed, and the material formed the basis of the BBC R4 Daily Services from 15-26
 June 2020.

 4.5: Contributions to the Research Base and to the Discipline
 Departmental staff shape and sustain the discipline nationally and internationally. Many
 opportunities are by invitation, reflecting the high standing of staff within the academic community.
 Since 2014 staff have delivered over 200 invited keynote lectures or seminars at universities,
 conferences and special events in at least 17 countries including Australia, Israel, Malta, Russia,
 South Africa and Sweden. Invitations to advise on staff recruitment and promotions at other
 universities have included, in the UK, at Aberdeen, Birmingham, Cambridge, Kingston, Lancaster,
 Oxford, and St Andrews; and in the USA, at the University of the South, Sewanee; Notre Dame;
 Yale; and the University of Virginia.

 A variety of university fellowship appointments reflect the high standing of staff and their global
 influence. Ayres, Barclay, Insole, and Watson have been Professorial Fellows at the Institute of
 Religion and Critical Inquiry, at the Australian Catholic University, Melbourne, each leading major
 research programmes and contributing to the progression of ACU as one of the leading hubs for
 the discipline in the southern hemisphere. Further appointments include Ayres, as Distinguished
 Fellow at the Institute of Advanced Study, University of Notre Dame, USA (2014-15); Barclay as
 Visiting Fellow, Peterhouse, Cambridge (2019); Ryrie (2019) and Snape (2017) as Senior
 Research Fellows at the Leibniz Institute of European History, Mainz; Ryrie as Research Fellow
 at the Huntington Library (2016) and the Folger Shakespeare Library (2017). Early career
 researchers have also established research profiles within international contexts, e.g. Heath held
 an Alexander von Humboldt postdoctoral fellowship, Berlin (2014-16).

 Multiple honorary fellowships reflect how staff are held in high repute. Davies is a Fellow of the
 British Academy, Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences and Fellow of the Learned Society of
 Wales. Cook is a Fellow of the International Society for Science & Religion. Ryrie was made an
 FBA in 2019, Barclay in 2020.

 Occasional conferences and symposia, initiated and organised by Durham academics, have
 stimulated research vitality in the wider discipline. A series of international Biblical Studies
 conferences (co-organized with postgraduate students) have addressed topics including Muted
 Voices in the New Testament and the early Ethiopic Christian tradition. Insole was co-founder of
 ‘Philosophy of Religion in the North Group’, established with colleagues in Philosophy and
 Theology Departments at Durham, York, and Leeds. The conference met bi-annually for a day
 conference between 2014-17, typically attracting around 40 staff and postgraduates.

 Contributions via international networks have included Miles-Watson’s membership of the
 Understanding Ruptured Landscapes network (2013-15), an interdisciplinary collaboration arising
 from a wider EU funded Landscape, Heritage and Culture project. Guest is part of a network of
 scholars collaborating on analysis and publication of data from a cross-European survey on

                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 “Religious Diversity in Europe”, funded by the Bertelsmann Stiftung centre, which convened a
 Berlin-based seminar of contributing academics in 2019. Ryrie is on the steering group of a
 network on missionary history whose 2019 conference in Rome was funded by the Netherlands
 Research Council, with further applications in progress.

 Numerous staff contribute to the shaping of Theology and Religion by sitting on editorial boards
 of international peer reviewed journals: 16 during the relevant period, including Irish Theological
 Quarterly, Fieldwork in Religion, Mortality, Theological Studies, Modern Theology and
 International Journal of Systematic Theology. Loughlin is co-editor of Theology and Sexuality and
 a European editor of Literature and Theology, Ryrie has been one of the two co-editors of Journal
 of Ecclesiastical History since 2014, Watson was editor of New Testament Studies (2014-18), and
 Cook has been an executive editor of Journal for the Study of Spirituality since 2013. Kilby is co-
 editor of the Bloomsbury T&T Clark series The English Theologians; Kelly is joint general co-
 editor of the five-volume Oxford History of British and Irish Catholicism; Ryrie is general editor of
 Bloomsbury’s six-volume Cultural History of Christianity.

 During 2014-20, Guest, Higton and Kilby served on the AHRC Peer Review College, Kilby also
 serving on their Strategic Reviewers Panel, as well as on the REF2021 panel for Theology and
 Religious Studies. Ryrie served on the Norwegian Research Council HUMEVAL panel on
 Theology and Religious Studies, 2016-17 (equivalent to REF subpanel) and the Irish Research
 Council International Assessment Board, 2017. Davies served as a reviewer for the European
 Research Council (ERC) and Norwegian Research Council; Ayres for the Irish Research Council.
 Staff have reviewed book manuscripts for Eerdmans, Polity, Routledge, SCM, T&T
 Clark/Bloomsbury, Wiley-Blackwell, and the University Presses of Cambridge, Edinburgh, Notre
 Dame, Oxford, and Yale.

 Departmental staff have served on national and international committees charged with overseeing
 the development of the discipline. Barclay became chair of TRS-UK (2017-21), which represents
 Departments of Theology and Religion across the country. Barclay was President of the British
 New Testament Society (2015-18), succeeded by Watson (2018-21), Moberly was the 2018-19
 President of the British Society for Old Testament Study, and Ryrie is President of the
 Ecclesiastical History Society (2019-21). Insole has served on the committee of the British Society
 for the Philosophy of Religion since 2015, Clemson on the Executive Committee of the Society
 for the Study of Theology (2014-17), with Kilby its President (2017-18), succeeded by Higton
 (2020-21). Cook was President of the British Association for the Study of Spirituality (2014-18).




                                                                                              Page 20
