Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University Hertfordshire

 Unit of Assessment: 9 Physics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and Structure
 The Unit has benefitted from substantial strategic investment over the reporting period in both
 staff and infrastructure which has allowed it to broaden its research base into new areas,
 increasing sustainability, while maintaining the vitality of existing areas of excellence. This
 resulted in a net increase from 33 FTE staff submitted to REF2014 to 42 FTE staff for this
 submission, an increase of 27%.

 All staff submitted to the Unit work in the Department of Physics, Astronomy and Mathematics
 (PAM), within the School of Physics, Engineering and Computer Science (SPECS), established
 on 1 August 2020. PAM operated as an autonomous School during the REF 2021 reporting
 period, as did Engineering and Computer Science. The subsequent restructure creates an
 infrastructure capable of furthering PAM’s commitment to interdisciplinary research.

 PAM is research-intensive with 80% of academic staff having significant responsibility for
 research (SRR). This is up from 66% in 2014 and was achieved through a process of strategic
 replacement of teaching-focused staff with those having SRR. It thus reflects a genuine increase
 which is aligned with PAM’s objective to be a research-intensive department.

 Notable strategic achievements for the Unit within the period are:

    •   Refreshed staff profile through recruitment and progression: 15 new appointments, 13
        promotions to Associate Professor/Reader and Professor, 19% early career researchers
        (ECRs).
    •   89% overall satisfaction rate (top quartile) in the Postgraduate Research Student
        Experience Survey (PRES) over REF cycle.
    •   Two 3-yearly STFC consolidated grant rounds providing funding of £2.2M and £1.9M.
    •   Year on year increase pre-COVID-19 in research income throughout cycle.
    •   Athena Swan Silver awarded in 2018 and JUNO Champion Status in 2019.
    •   Kaviraj appointed Co-Chair Legacy Survey of Space and Time (LSST) Galaxies Science
        Collaboration; Thompson is UK voting representative on Board of Directors, Square
        Kilometer Array (SKA).

 Research at the University is conducted within Research Centres and Research Groups (see
 Institutional Environment Statement). Research Centres are led by a Centre director and have
 considerable autonomy in how they spend research income, including a share of the overheads
 earned by the Centre; Research Groups are located and managed within a School.

 Research in PAM is concentrated in two centres, the Centre for Astrophysics Research (CAR),
 and the Centre for Atmospheric and Climate Physics Research (CACP), and two Research
 Groups, the Particle Instrumentation and Diagnostics (PID) Research Group and the Research
 Group in Mathematics and Mathematical Physics (MMP). The latter was set up during this REF
 cycle and reflects PAM’s strategy of broadening its research base. Staff also participate in two
 interdisciplinary research centres, the Centre for Research in Biodetection Technologies
 (CRBT), with Engineering, and the Centre of Data Innovation Research (CoDIR), with Computer
 Science. These are presented more fully later in the statement.

 The activities of the four PAM-based Centres and Groups and the staff belonging to them are as
 follows:




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CAR: Brinks, Burningham, Coppin (director), Dale, Devereux, Forbrich, Geach, Gledhill,
 Hardcastle, Harwood, Jones, Kaviraj, Kobayashi, Krause, Lucas, Martin, Napiwotzki, Pinfield,
 Ryan, Smith, Stevens, Thompson, Wykes. CAR is home to the lead investigators of several
 large international surveys, operating at wavelengths spanning the optical to the radio. The
 Centre is involved in the preparations of a new generation of radio facilities and, through
 participation by its members, has significant stakes in the next generation of optical/IR space-
 based observatories and ground-based instruments, including those for high-energy
 astrophysics. Sub-groups within CAR work on exoplanets and stars (Burningham, Jones,
 Gledhill, Martin, Pinfield), star formation and the Milky Way (Forbrich, Lucas, Napiwotzki, Ryan,
 Thompson), and extragalactic astrophysics (Brinks, Coppin, Devereux, Geach, Hardcastle,
 Harwood, Kaviraj, Smith, Stevens, Wykes). CAR’s observationally based research is
 underpinned by theoretical work using numerical simulations spanning size scales from the
 formation of star clusters through to cosmological simulations of galaxy formation and evolution
 (Dale, Kobayashi, Krause).

 CACP: Chemel, Hesse, Müller, Sokhi (director), Tatarov, Tiwari (Baran, Met Office: external
 collaborator in CACP on an 0.1 FTE appointment; not REF2021 eligible). CACP leads or
 participates in national and international research programmes on air quality, atmospheric
 processes, atmospheric composition and their interactions with climate. The research exploits
 the use of single particle levitation, ground based, remote sensing, and satellite observations
 (Hesse, Müller, Tatarov, Sokhi). Staff develop and apply light scattering models to improve
 climate predictions (Baran, Hesse) and through advanced high-resolution modelling, investigate
 aerosol-cloud microphysical and radiative properties of aerosols (Baran, Hesse, Müller). Multi-
 scale high-resolution modelling is core to the group’s capabilities to improve the description of
 boundary layer processes (Chemel, Sokhi), to understand drivers for variabilities in weather, link
 atmospheric circulation patterns to climate extreme events, and explain heterogeneities in air
 quality from local to regional scales (Sokhi, Müller, Tiwari).

 PID: Greenaway, Hirst, Kaye, Stanley, Stopford (lead). PID staff build optical systems for
 detecting, sizing, and classifying individual airborne micro-particles in a continuous airstream. As
 part of their research strand in atmospheric research, they design and build both aircraft-borne
 and laboratory-based instruments for identifying the morphology of microscopic ice crystals in
 high-altitude clouds and/or cloud chambers. PID also develops instruments to monitor or alert for
 hazardous bio-aerosol. These, and other devices for measuring particulate respirable hazards
 (e.g., asbestos, PM2.5 particulate matter, crystalline silica) are subsequently licensed for
 commercial use. The team works in a highly multidisciplinary manner to conceptualise (whole
 team) and then holistically develop the optics (Hirst), mechanics (Hirst, Stopford, Kaye),
 interface software (Stanley, Greenaway, Stopford), electronics (Hirst, Stanley) and analysis
 techniques (Stopford, Stanley, Greenaway).

 MMP: Carvalho, Łukowski, Mahbubani, Peresse, Regelskis, Steuernagel, Strickland-Constable,
 Young (lead). The mathematics and mathematical physics group brings together experts on
 geometric and algebraic approaches to fundamental physics. The group's work on scattering
 amplitudes in quantum field theories focuses on novel geometric methods, providing a bridge
 between recent advances in mathematics and experimental high-energy physics by building
 models for studying real-world scattering processes (Ferro, Łukowski). In supergravity and string
 theory, the work on compactifications has a focus on generalized geometries (Strickland-
 Constable). The group uncovers algebraic and geometric structure in integrable quantum
 models, especially conformal field theories and their massive perturbations (Regelskis, Young).

 Strategy
 PAM is a research-intensive department, engaged in research at the highest levels and heavily
 networked internationally (see section 4). The Unit succeeded in achieving the “future strategic
 aims and goals” articulated in its REF2014 submission, which focused on “ensuring
 sustainability and strengthening core research activities via targeted investment in new staff
 appointments and infrastructure, and exploiting opportunities to enhance the many international
 and national collaborations” and implementing a staffing strategy that “will be sustained by and

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 benefit from continuing conversion of longer-term externally funded fellows to staff
 appointments”.

 It was recognised in 2014 that the demographic profile and size of some groups making up the
 Unit made them vulnerable. Research activity, and the resulting income generated, varied
 substantially across the subject areas in the Unit. The challenge was to redress these
 imbalances, ensuring the Unit’s long-term sustainability and enhancing its vitality, while staying
 within the financial envelope set for the department by the University.

 The following strategy was delivered:

 Broadening the research base of the Unit: Retirement of teaching-focused staff offered a
 unique opportunity to substantially accelerate the development of the MMP research area. The
 Unit made strategic appointments, at the lecturer level, of four academic staff, experts on
 geometric and algebraic approaches to fundamental physics, thus further strengthening the area
 of mathematical physics. A fifth appointment was made in the area of statistics, again at lecturer
 level, to contribute to the CoDIR interdisciplinary research centre. These appointments doubled
 the research base in MMP while rejuvenating its staff profile, laying the foundation for future
 growth.

 Strengthening research with commercial partners: Two members of staff on fixed-term
 research contracts were transferred to permanent contracts, one in PID and one in CACP. In
 addition, PAM obtained in-kind support from the University’s Business Development team,
 allowing it to employ two full time and one part time specialist technical staff in direct support of
 the laboratory intensive PID group. This enabled PID to continue to be both proactive and
 responsive to requests from industry.

 Fulfilling a commitment to the development of early-career researchers: the Unit
 successfully participated in bids to two University funded initiatives aimed to promote research
 that were launched over the reporting period, i.e., the Early Career Research (ECR) and Vice-
 Chancellor’s Fellowships. Both are 5-year fellowships, with the expectation of the ECR Fellows
 subsequently being offered a permanent contract. The Unit was highly successful, being
 awarded two of each. Three of the Fellowships (one ECR- and 2 VC-Fellowships) went to
 strengthen research in CAR, the remaining ECR Fellowship went to CACP. The Fellows hired
 were all independent researchers, aspiring leaders in their fields. The three fellows in CAR add
 expertise to the areas of extrasolar planets and their atmospheres, galactic and extragalactic
 star formation, and the study of active galaxies, respectively; the fellow in CACP is examining
 the connections between atmospheric circulation patterns and climate extreme events through
 the use of multi-scale downscaling approaches to assess sensitivities between weather and
 regional climate.

 Bolstering the Unit’s expertise in numerical simulations and modelling: Numerical
 simulations are key to interpreting and putting into context observational data gathered by staff
 from across the Unit. In line with investment in infrastructure, viz. the High-Performance
 Computing cluster (see below), two new appointments were made in CAR to exploit its
 capability, doubling the number of staff in CAR developing and running simulation software.

 Further diversify income streams: The Unit horizon-scans for both traditional and new funding
 opportunities. Examples of the latter are the Unit’s involvement in the Newton Fund initiative
 Development for Africa through Radio Astronomy (DARA), with the key aim of creating
 sustainable radio astronomy groups across Africa with transferable skills for wider job and
 wealth creation. Subsequently, and alongside DARA, a similar Newton Fund project, led by
 members of CAR, was initiated to support the Thai Government to develop the advanced skills
 the country requires to build a 40-m world-class radio telescope to be incorporated in global
 radio telescope networks.



                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Interdisciplinary Research
 In 2015 the University adopted six global-challenge focussed Research Themes to facilitate
 cross-university interdisciplinary research. The Unit is primarily active within the Space theme,
 whose Theme Champion is Lucas, and worked to establish two interdisciplinary research
 centres Centre for Research in Biodetection Technologies (CRBT), in May 2017, and Centre of
 Data Innovation Research (CoDIR) in November 2018.

 CoDIR: Geach (director), Blyuss (UOA3) Jones, Kaviraj (plus Department of Computer Science
 staff: Steuber, Kadir, Schmuker as core staff). This is a new research centre that combines data
 science and machine learning expertise from astrophysics (Geach, Kaviraj, Jones), statistics
 (Blyuss), and computer science, particularly biocomputation (Steuber, Kadir, Schmuker). The
 objective of CoDIR is to pioneer innovative data science techniques, exploiting expertise in
 statistics, image analysis, machine learning and computational neuroscience to develop a
 strategy to translate these techniques beyond fundamental research, such as medicine,
 defence, and agritech. By embedding this translational approach in the centre’s research
 programme, it seeks to deliver economic and societal impact from blue skies research.

 CRBT: Stopford, Kaye, Greenaway (plus Department of Engineering staff: Coudron, Dimov,
 Johnston (director), McCluskey, Tan, Tracey). CRBT combines expertise across areas including
 particulate matter, aerosols, microfluid flows, and biological sample manipulation. Dedicated
 specialist groups include applied optical light scattering for airborne particle monitoring
 (Stopford, Kaye, Greenaway), advanced applied microfluidics for sample processing and
 biological identification of pathogens (Coudron, Dimov, Tan), and integrated systems combining
 aerosol collection and microfluidic diagnostics (Johnston, Tracey, McCluskey). CRBT’s unique
 research expertise in aerosol and light scattering physics is also central to the delivery of the
 EPSRC CDT in Aerosol Science (see below). Ongoing development includes application of
 existing applied optics and aerosols expertise for research into airborne infection transmission in
 healthcare settings.

 Impact Strategy
 The Unit’s impact strategy in the period has been to:

 Enhance the potential for impact generation in PID: The research performed within the
 Particle Instrumentation and Diagnostics research group lends itself to applications across areas
 of public health, biological hazard detection, and atmospheric and climate science. This has
 made the group a trusted partner to such clients as The Defence Science and Technology
 Laboratory, Dstl (since 1979), a variety of commercial organisations (viz. Alphasense Ltd.,
 Trolex Ltd, Alert Technology Ltd) and research establishments like the Met Office. Two FTE staff
 were moved from fixed term onto permanent contracts. The University’s Business Development
 team funds 2.5 FTE of specialist technical support to facilitate collaborations. Two Impact Case
 Studies (ICS) derive from these activities.

 Transfer of techniques developed for astrophysics research in CAR to other domains:
 Research in astrophysics is characterised by dealing with big data volumes (Big Science) and
 complex analysis techniques. Many of these techniques are based on variations of supervised
 and unsupervised machine learning (AI). The techniques, once developed, often can be applied
 to areas beyond astrophysics. To actively explore this kind of translational development CoDIR
 was established, bringing together in an interdisciplinary setting existing expertise in CAR in
 machine learning and data science with that in Computer Science. Funding from the University’s
 Business Development team for research students was instrumental for exploring the prospect
 of commercialisation of astrophysics techniques. The application of techniques developed for
 astrophysics to other domains has already led to a contract with Dstl (via subcontracts with
 ATLAS Elektronik UK Ltd.), applications in the analysis of medical imaging (in the area of cardio-
 vascular radiography) and a successful bid to STFC under its CLASP Programme to develop
 and bring to market its ClearSky technology in partnership with Agrimetrics.


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Engage in capacity building in Africa and Asia: CAR staff are involved in the preparations of
 the next-generation radio instrument, the Square Kilometre Array (SKA). The cost of SKA Phase
 1 including construction of the two telescopes and the first 10 years of operations (2021-2030) is
 estimated to be around £1.7 billion. CAR is a main partner in capacity building of aspiring
 scientists in SKA partner countries in Southern Africa through the provision of training within the
 Development in Africa with Radio Astronomy (DARA) network, led by University of Leeds. Based
 on the success of that programme CAR took the lead of a pilot programme of human capital and
 technology development in Thailand, whose aim, with partner Universities of Manchester, Leeds,
 and Oxford, is to support the Thai Government to develop the advanced skills the country
 requires to deliver its flagship national infrastructure project: a 40-m world-class radio telescope
 that will allow Thailand to access the SKA. In 2016 CAR made a successful £60k bid to the
 Newton Fund and STFC and in 2017 this pilot project was extended for two more years with the
 further award of £500k. The combined DARA and Thai projects have resulted in an ICS, and a
 combined grant income, including £400k for a similar initiative in Colombia, of £1.3M.

 Expand and leverage the dissemination of astrophysics research: CAR is engaged in
 research that attracts world-wide attention, such as the ground-breaking discovery of a rocky,
 Earth-sized planet, named Promixa b, orbiting the habitable zone of Proxima Centauri, 4.2 light
 years from Earth, and of four Earth-sized planets orbiting Tau Ceti, at 12 light years distance.
 Two of them are ‘super-Earths’ located in the habitable zone of the star. CAR has used its
 leading role in exoplanet research to engage the public, and particularly school-age children.
 These and other exoplanet discoveries are reflected in an ICS. The Unit’s outreach and public
 engagement has been supported by £65,000 to acquire one of the UK’s largest portable
 planetariums for school visits and use during Open Evenings at the Unit’s Bayfordbury
 Observatory.

 The Unit’s impact agenda has throughout the reporting period benefitted from the University’s
 allocation of 5 small grants for research impact totalling £16.1k and support from the Business
 Development team for activities showing commercial potential. Most recently PAM had a
 portfolio of 22 projects in the Intellectual Property pipeline across a range of Technology
 Readiness Levels, 5 of which were at an advanced stage (TRL 7 – 9).

 Open Research Environment and Integrity
 The Unit has long favoured an open research environment with computer code being shared on
 GitHub and outputs being made available through repositories such as arXiv (Green Open
 Access). Staff make their outputs available at a minimum as Green OA and, funding permitting,
 as Gold OA.

 The Unit adheres to the UKRI Common Principles on Data Policy. At an institutional level the
 University subscribes to the Concordat on Open Research Data. Data obtained fall
 predominantly in the realm of astrophysics. Raw data obtained at the ground- and space-based
 astronomical observatories are archived at source by the relevant observatory and, after a
 suitable proprietary period, become open access as a matter of course. Science-quality data
 products are made available through data releases and, to ensure long-term curation, deposited
 in observatory managed data repositories (e.g., ESO, NRAO) or data centres (CDS Strasbourg).

 Data related to atmospheric science, collected and analysed through various projects in CACP,
 are routinely made available after a suitable, typically 2-year, embargo period to facilitate
 publication of key findings by the project team. This is in line with the requirements of project
 funders.

 The University is a signatory to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. There is centrally
 provided mandatory training on research integrity for all researchers including workshops, an
 annual seminar and the University Doctoral College has its awareness embedded in the
 mandatory researcher development training for all postgraduate research students (PGRs). Unit
 staff actively participate in the periodic update workshops and the annual seminar run by the
 University.

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Future Strategy
 The Unit has created a sustainable base through building up its constituent parts and increasing
 its vitality through attracting new staff. The future strategy is:

 To further strengthen the area of atmospheric and climate physics research: Following a
 £1.2M investment PAM intends to bring its advanced Lidar facility into full operation. Planning,
 construction of the Lidar Laboratory facilities, and installation of equipment commenced during
 the REF cycle with commissioning now planned for 2021/22; the project suffered delays
 because of the impact of COVID-19 on both the University and suppliers of bespoke laboratory
 equipment and parts. This development complements related research taking place in CACP
 and PID.

 The Unit will further extend and support the study of air pollution, such as the ongoing CACP
 project on pollution control in the Greater Delhi area. It is expected that this and similar research
 elsewhere in the world will lead to policy input that will inform future decisions made by
 authorities, improving the health of those living in polluted areas in developing countries, and
 thus provide significant research impact.

 A recent strategic initiative under the auspices of the University-level Space Research Theme
 has been the formal designation (October 2020) of a new interdisciplinary Centre for Climate
 Change Research. Director Sokhi brought together the work of CACP researchers on aerosol
 measurements, aerosol-cloud interactions, prediction, and forecasting atmospheric dynamics
 with teams elsewhere in the University who work on, for example, climate driven stress in cities,
 assessment of climate impacts on food security, and development of technological solutions to
 transition towards a zero-carbon society. The formation of this Centre will strengthen the
 University’s influence in the wider national and international climate change arena (for example,
 it has already joined the COP26 Universities Network) and facilitate major interdisciplinary
 research activities over the next REF cycle.

 To exploit interdisciplinary research centres and the facilities afforded by a new SPECS
 building: The decision by the University to establish the new School of Physics, Engineering
 and Computer Science is to be followed by an exciting development of investment in an £85.5M
 new building for SPECS on the College Lane campus which will bring together researchers who
 are geographically dispersed through different departmental locations. This will generate new
 enhanced equipment resources and provide an environment which promotes the development of
 interdisciplinary projects.

 CoDIR's research topics are relevant to all three Departments in the new school and a key
 objective is to expand the general area of data science research through targeted recruitment of
 relevant academic staff across SPECS, and across the University. SRR staff will be appointed in
 areas including mathematical statistics, statistical computing and data science. Research in
 these disciplines will lead directly to impact and attract both research and commercial funding.
 For example, the appointment a medical statistician, has led to new collaborations with external
 partners including healthcare organizations in medical data analysis.

 The Unit’s contribution to developing CRBT will be through strengthening PID. This will in the
 first phase be in the form of the provision of specialist technical support staff. In the longer term
 the development of the new building will lead to a step change in the quality of the laboratory
 and technical facilities available to PID. PID's success has historically been based on the efforts
 of a small number of core academic staff and these numbers will be increased through targeted
 strategic recruitment, adding vital expertise and skills.

 To further extend support for numerical simulations and modelling: In-house expertise in
 numerical simulations, alongside observational studies ranging from the optical to the radio,
 gives astrophysics staff a substantial advantage over colleagues elsewhere. This is likely to
 result in increased external grant income. In CACP, high-performance computing is
 indispensable for running the sophisticated models that describe boundary layer processes, link

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 atmospheric circulation patterns to climate extreme events, and reveal variations in air quality
 from local to global scales. In view of the importance of numerical simulations and modelling,
 support will be extended for this crucial activity.

 To rebalance research funding, research allocations, and availability of PGR studentships
 across the Department: The restructuring as a result of the formation of the new School has
 given PAM the opportunity to make the approach to research support more equitable across the
 department. All staff with SRR, including new hires, will be given appropriate workload and travel
 allocations to enable them to build up a research profile and to obtain external grant income.
 Growth in the number of staff with SRR will be accompanied by further increase in postgraduate
 research (PGR) students by 30% over the next 5 years, adding to the vitality of the Unit. This
 growth will be achieved through targeted use of QR, overhead, and Unit income.

 To build the reputation of the MMP Research Group: it is expected that staff in MMP will
 benefit from the measures that are in place in PAM supporting new and existing staff (see
 Section 2, Staff Development) and the above-mentioned rebalancing, to take forward their
 research, gain further recognition, and as a result increase their grant income.


 2. People

 Staffing Strategy
 The Unit’s staffing strategy has been informed by its research strategy which was aimed at
 maintaining a broad research base in astrophysics, improving the demographic profile across
 both astrophysics and physics, increasing its sustainability by building up research in
 mathematics, mathematical physics and data science, and developing the interdisciplinary
 centres, CRBT and CoDIR. The academic staff profile demonstrates considerable vitality with
 19% early career and 58% early- or mid-career staff; 17% are women including a reader and a
 professor, with just under 50% of staff from outside the UK.

 Table 1: Staff submitted to REF2014 and REF2021

                CAR            CACP           PID           MMP            Total staff   Total FTE

  REF2014                 26              5             2              2            35            33

  REF2021                 23              6             5              8            42            42

 Table 1 lists the number of staff submitted to REF2014 and REF2021, and their Centre or Group
 affiliation. This submission corresponds to a 27% FTE growth in volume. The proportion of
 department staff submitted has increased to 80% from 66% in 2014. This is an indication of the
 staffing and development strategies leading to a genuine strengthening of research across the
 Unit. Of the 42 staff submitted to REF2021, 37 (or 88%) are on permanent contracts.

 The following lists staff members who joined the Unit in the reporting period. It indicates the
 ability of the Unit to appoint high performing junior staff (typically at lecturer level) in line with the
 overall growth strategy to ensure both vibrancy and sustainability.

 CAR
   •     Burningham: Marie Skłodowska-Curie Action (MSCA) International Fellowship
         (Outgoing), held at NASA Ames Research Center, California, USA; currently holder of a
         Vice Chancellor's Research Fellowship.
     •   Dale: Excellence Cluster Universe, University Observatory, Ludwig-Maximilians-
         Universität Munich.


                                                                                                     Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Devereux: joined as a Daphne-Jackson Fellow after a career in industry; currently
        Lecturer.
    •   Forbrich: University of Vienna, Department of Astrophysics and the Harvard-Smithsonian
        Center for Astrophysics, USA; joined on a University 5-yr Early Career Fellowship with
        proleptic appointment to Lecturer.
    •   Harwood: Netherlands Institute for Radio Astronomy, ASTRON; currently holder of a Vice
        Chancellor’s Research Fellowship.
    •   Krause: Max-Planck-Institut für extraterrestrische Physik, Garching.
    •   Wykes: Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, USA.

 CACP
   • Tatarov: joined on an MSCA Fellowship, from the Gwangju Institute of Science and
      Technology (GIST) in South Korea.
   • Tiwari: Centre for Atmospheric Sciences, IIT Delhi; joined on a University 5-yr Early
      Career Fellowship with proleptic appointment to Lecturer.


 CoDIR
   • Blyuss: Wolfson Institute of Preventative Medicine, Queen Mary University of London
       (submitted to UOA3).

 MMP
   • Ferro: Arnold–Sommerfeld–Center for Theoretical Physics, Ludwig–Maximilians–
     Universität, Munich (currently on secondment; not REF2021 eligible).
   • Łukowski: Mathematical Institute, University of Oxford.
   • Mahbubani - Albert Einstein Center for Fundamental Physics, Institute for Theoretical
     Physics, University of Bern.
   • Regelskis: Department of Mathematics, University of York.
   • Strickland-Constable - School of Mathematics, University of Edinburgh.

 Three staff were funded in part or entirely during the reporting period through external grants
 (Geach on a Royal Society University Research Fellowship, Devereux on a Daphne-Jackson
 Fellowship, and Tatarov on an MSCA Fellowship). A further four hold university fellowships,
 Forbrich and Tiwari on an ECR-Research Fellowship and Burningham and Harwood on a Vice-
 Chancellor’s Research Fellowship.

 Staff Development
 Great importance and attention are given to the personal development of researchers within
 PAM. To this end the department maintains a relatively flat management structure with the Head
 of Department line-managing a group of senior academics who in turn line-manage all remaining
 staff. Appraisals take place on a yearly basis (usually with an interim review after 6 months) with
 a standing item to discuss career planning and progression.

 This attention to staff aspirations has since 2014 resulted in a string of successes in terms of
 career progression: 5 staff on fixed-term contracts such as (senior) research fellow or early
 career Research Fellow, were offered permanent contracts at Lecturer/Senior Lecturer (SL)
 level. Of those at SL level, 2 became Principal Lecturer and 8 were promoted to
 Reader/Associate Professor. Lastly 5 Readers were promoted to Professor. Since 2019/20 the
 has University operated a yearly academic promotion to the titles of Associate Professor,
 Reader, and Professor which followed on from the introduction of an annual round for promotion
 to Associate Professor in 2017/18.

 All newly recruited staff are provided with a formal induction to the department and are assigned
 a mentor, someone who is at the same career stage as the new staff member and who can
 familiarise them with their new work environment and the overall University structure. The new
 staff member and mentor will have frequent, informal contact. More formal mentoring is

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 performed by the line-manager who conducts three probation interviews in the new staff
 member’s first year.

 New academic staff members who are independent researchers are provided with a substantial
 research time allocation of typically 55% and are given priority in the allocation of PhD students.
 The objective is to allow new staff to develop to their full potential and to subsequently take on
 research leadership roles in their subject area. They are supported in applying for external
 funding by means of a process of internal moderation and coaching by experienced staff.

 In order to further assist, in particular early career staff with their career progression, as well as
 those not yet having SRR but aspiring to develop their research activity and independence, staff
 are encouraged to engage with the Doctoral College’s Researcher Development Programme
 which is inspired by and follows the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers (the University was awarded the European Commission’s “HR Excellence in
 Research Award” in 2010 and retained this distinction following its recent 10 year review). PAM
 actively supports the transfer from (fixed term) research contracts to permanent academic
 contracts. Over the reporting period, there have been 5 such transfers.

 The career progression of mid-career and senior staff also involves continuing professional
 development (CPD) to prepare and assist staff taking on management roles, such as line-
 management, appraisal, serving on or chairing a recruitment panel, etc. CPD is coordinated by
 the University’s HR department. Staff interacting with industry, i.e., those engaged in research
 with the potential for research impact, are provided maximum flexibility to deliver an agile
 response to requests for their expertise from outside academia. This in general translates to
 reduced teaching allocations and teaching in module teams. Seven staff, primarily, but not
 exclusively in PID, are currently engaging with commercial partners and industry.

 The School actively promotes career development and supports staff bids for grants such as
 Royal Society/Leverhulme Senior Research Fellowship that allow the individual to concentrate
 exclusively on research for the duration of the grant. Likewise, if financial support is provided by
 a host institution for research visits, a period of extended sabbatical leave is usually granted.
 Typical recent examples just before the impact of COVID-19 when 5 staff were on leave for part
 of one semester (Steuernagel, Kobayashi, Regelskis) or a full academic year (Coppin, Ferro).
 This allowed Steuernagel to accept invitations prompted by his recent research on Wigner flows
 which has led to new collaborations (A. Klimov, Guadalajara, Mexico; R.-K. Lee, National Center
 of Theoretical Sciences, Taiwan). Kobayashi visited her collaborators in Melbourne and was
 invited to become a partner investigator of ASTRO3D, a £22.4M Australian Research Council
 Centre of Excellence in All-Sky Astrophysics in 3 Dimensions (ASTRO 3D), which runs until
 2025.

 The Unit recognises the importance of staff disseminating their work, e.g., at workshops and
 seminars. CAR, for example, provides a travel budget of £2000 per staff member each year
 including PDRAs (and £1500 p.a. for PGR students). In addition, there is an active Visiting
 Researcher programme covered largely through the STFC consolidated grant, to invite
 collaborators for short (several days to weeks) stays. Staff who are not part of a Research
 Centre are supported directly through the departmental budget.

 Research Students
 The University participates biennially in the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES).
 PRES 2019 ranked the University overall experience 21st out of 103, 4th of 103 for research
 culture and 15th of 103 for supervision (62% response rate). Reporting the average scores
 across the three surveys held during the REF cycle to take account of the small number of
 respondents, satisfaction levels are at 88% in the category ‘Supervision’, 93% for ‘Resources’,
 and 89% in ‘Overall experience’ which places the Unit in the top quartile of the sector.




                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Table 2: Number of Doctoral awards

              2013-14      2014-15     2015-16     2016-17      2017-18     2018-19     2019-20
  Number
                  5           12           7            6           3           4            9
  students

 Table 2 lists the annual number of Doctoral awards over the reporting period, being a total of 46.
 In addition, there were 3 PGR students, who in their writing-up phase had moved overseas and
 were therefore classified as distance learners in the University’s HESA return, thus making a
 total of 49 of which 27% are women. At the census date, 38 PGR students were enrolled on a
 PhD. A further 11 are working on a 1-yr MSc by Research. This projects to 9 or 10 doctoral
 awards per annum, showing an increasing trend which benefits from participation in the EPSRC
 Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) in Aerosol Science (see Section 4).

  For doctoral students, 82% are supported through a studentship, the remainder being self-
 funded. For studentships, 19 are provided through the STFC DTG, EPSRC CDT, and individual
 grants held by staff, and 12 through QR funding.

 Table 3: Destination of PGR students

  Destination                        Number
  postdoctoral career                      15
  academic career/R&D                          9
  data analyst/scientist                   10
  commercial/finance                           4
  teaching                                     4
  other                                        7

 Table 3 provides the next stage destination for PGR students. The majority continue their career
 in academia, usually with a postdoctoral appointment, both nationally (recent examples include
 Oxford and Durham) and internationally ( for example, ASTRON, The Netherlands; ANU,
 Canberra and UWA, Perth; Steward Observatory, Arizona and Johns Hopkins Applied Physics
 Laboratory, Baltimore; Astronomical Observatory, and Rome).

 PGR students are assigned a supervision team, consisting of a principal and at least one further
 supervisor. This arrangement not only benefits the student but staff who are new to supervising
 at doctoral level can gain experience (all staff involved in PGR supervision must complete
 training arranged by the Doctoral College). In addition to the expectation of regular interaction of
 the student with supervisors, there is the requirement of a minimum of three progress meetings
 of the full team per year, each followed by a brief report, and additionally an annual monitoring
 report. Students must pass two formal assessments in order to progress to the final phase of
 their PhD, one after 8 and another after 18 months of enrolment (for full-time ) where the
 student’s progress is judged by an internal and an external assessor, i.e., someone not involved
 in the research project.

 Although the supervision team covers the pastoral care of their students, they also have
 recourse to the departmental Postgraduate Tutor. Moreover, there are PGR student
 representatives both on the department management group and the Equality Committee. The
 Doctoral College has a Student Forum which meets several times per year and is chaired by one
 of the Associate Deans (Research).



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGRs are fully integrated in the research environment of the department and its vibrant research
 culture (seminars, lunch talks, journal clubs, subject specific gatherings). PGRs are in charge of
 convoking journal clubs and weekly or fortnightly subject specific meetings. They are attached to
 one of the research centres or groups and share offices within the same buildings as staff. They
 have identical access to relevant resources as staff and are provided with high specification IT
 equipment and a travel budget of £1500 a year.

 PGRs are offered a wide range of opportunities to develop and expand their transferable skills.
 These are the Researcher Development Programme, the popular postgraduate training
 programme “GRADnet” offered through the Unit’s participation in the South East Physics
 Network (SEPnet), and PAM’s internally run Post-graduate Training programme. PGRs agree
 with their supervision team those courses and activities that would be of most benefit (a number
 are mandatory, such as training related to Equality and Diversity, Unconscious Bias, and
 Research Integrity and Plagiarism). Successful completion of the agreed personal development
 programme must be reported in the 8-month and 18-month progression reports.

 Equality and Diversity
 PAM’s Equality Committee works to remove barriers for LGBT+, BAME and women staff and
 create an equal workspace beneficial to all. No distinction is made between fixed-term staff or
 those on permanent contracts. Similarly, full-time or part-time staff are treated equally.
 Equality/Diversity training is mandatory for all staff, as is training to recognise unconscious bias
 with refresher sessions every three years. Care is taken to ensure hiring and recruitment panels
 have a balanced composition, as do interview panels for PGR students.

 PAM is proud to have been awarded Athena Swan Silver in April 2018 (following its Bronze
 status since April 2015) and, in July 2019, JUNO Champion status (following on Practitioner
 level since January 2015). The award letter commended the department for having Equality &
 Diversity “well embedded in the organisational structure”. The Equality Committee ensures the
 Athena Swan and JUNO action plans are being implemented.

 A family friendly policy supports requests for parental leave and bespoke arrangements for
 working from home and flexible working to support staff with childcare or caring responsibilities.
 Staff with SRR returning after maternity leave are offered a phased return with an initially larger
 fraction of time allocated for research.

 Table 4 provides the gender balance for postdoctoral researchers, PGRs, and academic staff. It
 shows that an increasing number of both early career staff and research students are women,
 creating a healthy pipeline for future appointments to academic posts. The Unit supports them
 to further their career ambitions by, for example, participating in the informal Women in PAM
 network. Kobayashi promoted gender balance at international level, serving from 2012 – 2018
 on the Executive Committee of IAU Working Group: Women in Astronomy.

 Table 4: Gender balance

                                       Number      Number of women Percentage women
  Post-doctoral researchers                   12                       6                      50
  Postgraduate research students              48                     15                       31
  Unit academic staff                         42                       7                      17

 The international composition of the Unit is worthy of note. Just under 50% of staff, 66% of post-
 doctoral researchers and 38% of PGRs are of non-British origin, creating a vibrant, multicultural,
 diverse environment.



                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 The largest proportion of research in the Unit is of a ‘blue skies” nature. 70% of external
 research income comes from the UKRI research councils (see left-hand panel of pie-chart
 below). The remaining 30% comprises diverse sources: 11% EU, 6% Industry, 4% Charities, 6%
 other Government funds, 3% Other. Research Income increased year on year throughout the
 cycle until COVID-19 affected 2019-20, reflecting the Unit’s successful progression of mid-career
 staff into research leadership roles.

 Table 5a: Research income composition (£Million)

  External Income        Central Facilities In-kind Income*      Total
                             (STFC)
                 12.9                  4.2                 9.1             26.2
 * Calculation of in-kind income associated with competitively awarded public surveys and/or
 Principal Investigator time not captured by UKRI data.

 Table 5b: Annual Research Income over Cycle (£Million)

   2013/14     2014/15      2015/16    2016/17      2017/18      2018/19      2019/20    TOTAL

         1.5         1.6         1.9         2.0          2.0         2.2          1.7       12.9

 Despite serious pressure on STFC resources the Centre for Astrophysics Research was
 awarded £2.2M and £1.9M in the two 3-yearly consolidated grant rounds that fall in the reporting
 period. Kobayashi led a collaborative STFC grant valued at £330k (BRIDGCE: The Rise of
 Chemical Elements). Sokhi was awarded £730k for his Newton Fund project PROMOTE
 (Process analysis, observations and modelling - Integrated solutions for cleaner air for Delhi).
 Other large awards were Newton Fund grants totalling £900k for capacity building in Southern
 Africa and Thailand (Thompson, Forbrich), and a further £400k for a similar initiative in Colombia
 (Thompson, Geach).




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our total facilities in-kind income reported by Research England for the period is £4.2M. This
 incorporates the UOA’s regular use of ground-based facilities operated by the European
 Southern Observatory (ESO), including ALMA, as well as providing access to STFC’s DiRAC
 High Performance Computing (HPC) infrastructure.

 Table 6 shows examples of additional in-kind income estimated at £9.1M, which results from
 principal investigator time allocations awarded competitively on non-UK facilities, illustrating the
 highly competitive nature of bids from individual CAR staff to the world’s top facilities.

 Table 6: Examples of the larger in-kind awards

  Time                   Facility                            Estimated value (£k)
  544 hours              VLA, VLBA                                              992
  803 hours              SMA                                                  2,058
  3152 hours             JCMT/EAO                                             1,873
  317.3 ksec             Chandra                                              1,951
  3000 ksec              INTEGRAL                                               500
  28 nights              GTC, LBT, Magellan, IRTF                               621


 Infrastructure and Facilities
 Moving forward from REF2014 PAM continued its targeted investment in infrastructure in the
 reporting period with expenditure of £3.6M. The most visible evidence of this has been the
 setting up of a laser laboratory capable of state-of-the-art Lidar-based research in atmospheric
 physics led by Müller who joined PAM in 2013 from the Gwangju Institute of Science and
 Technology (GIST) in South Korea. Investment to date is £1.2M, shared between University and
 departmental funding. Although the Lidar laboratory has been inaugurated, it has only recently
 moved from the construction to commissioning phase. In parallel to developing the Lidar
 research facility, the existing laser laboratory was comprehensively refurbished.

 The other critical area of investment is the University’s High-Performance Computer (HPC), a
 Linux cluster worth currently ~£3.3M of which ~£1.0M has come from University funds and
 £340k from Departmental funds and research grants in the reporting period. Originally pioneered
 by PAM in 2010, this became a University facility in 2016 with a £1M investment in a hardware
 upgrade that allowed the HPC to grow to its current capability (5300 CPU cores, 21 TB RAM,
 63000 GPU cores and 2.3 PB storage). Unit staff continue to be the largest users of the system,
 which supports the growing activity in numerical simulations.

 Table 7: Examples of the larger investments made

  Facility                                       Estimated value (£k)

  Lidar laboratory                                                1200

  HPC facility                                                    1340

  JCMT/EAO subscription                                             150
  Dropsonde receiver for FAAM
                                                                    193
  Aircraft
  PAM Public Engagement; portable
                                                                     65
  planetarium
  Misc. Laboratory upgrades                                         110

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Table 7 lists a selection of the larger investments made over the reporting period. The right-hand
 panel in the pie-chart above shows the internal source of funding, the bulk of which is through
 competitive bids to the university’s capital expenditure (CapEx) programme (66%), the
 remainder being provided by QR and departmental disposable income.

 The Unit receives QR income which is proportional to its contribution to the success of the
 University’s REF2014 submission (after modest top-slicing by the University). QR funds are
 strategically used in line with University approved research delivery plans, among other things,
 to fund staff on fixed term contracts, e.g., in support of the Lidar laser facility. Importantly, QR
 funds are also used to provide PhD studentships, complementing those supported by external
 funding.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research Collaborations and User Partnerships
 The bulk of research carried out in the Unit involves national and international collaborations.
 Those with particularly wide scope and/or substantial leadership from Unit staff are listed below.

 CAR large collaborations include:

    •   Square Kilometer Array: The SKA is the world's largest radio astronomy collaboration,
        with 15 core participating countries and 8 African partner countries. CAR members of
        science and technical working groups are Thompson (founding Chair of the “Our Galaxy”
        working group), Brinks, Forbrich, and Hardcastle.
    •   The Legacy Survey of Space and Time (LSST) on the Rubin Observatory is a ten-year,
        deep-wide optical survey, which will reach depths of 28 mag (in the r-band) over 20,000
        sq. degree. The project involves more than 1000 scientists across 29 countries. Kaviraj is
        co-Chair of the LSST Galaxies Science Collaboration. Burningham is co-Chair of the
        Solar Neighbourhood Working Group within the Stars, Milky Way and Local Volume
        Science Collaboration. Lucas serves as the Milky Way and Local Volume Point of
        Contact for the UK consortium within LSST (LSST:UK). Kaviraj is co-PI of an STFC-
        funded PDRA grant, within the LSST:UK Phase B programme, which is developing
        pipeline infrastructure for low-surface-brightness science.
    •   VVV/VVVX: the VISTA Variables in the Via Lactea project and its extension (VVVX) is an
        international collaboration involving 13 countries and over 100 collaborators. VVV and
        VVVX have been awarded 400 nights on the ESO VISTA telescope from 2010 to 2021.
        Lucas is co-leader of the project.
    •   MeerKAT is the South African SKA precursor. The Galactic Plane Survey (GPS) is an
        international legacy survey of the Galactic Plane at 1.4 GHz, carrying out the deepest
        and highest resolution survey yet carried out. The MeerKAT GPS consortium has 50
        members from the UK, South Africa, Europe, and the US. CAR members are Thompson
        (PI & survey coordinator) and Forbrich. The MIGHTEE survey is using MeerKAT to
        obtain ultra-deep images of the southern extragalactic radio sky (CAR members are
        Hardcastle, Harwood, Smith). MHONGOOSE is a MeerKAT large survey to map atomic
        hydrogen in nearby galaxies; Brinks is co-I.
    •   LOFAR Surveys Key Science project: an international project with 300 members from 80
        institutes in 15 countries, carrying out wide and deep low-frequency sky surveys using
        the LOFAR telescope. CAR partners are Hardcastle (core team member and lead
        developer of the imaging pipeline) and Smith (core team member and lead of the
        LOFAR-WEAVE working group).
    •   LOFAR-UK: the UK national contribution to LOFAR, funded by STFC, running the UK
        LOFAR station and UK computing infrastructure hosted at the University, with 22 UK
        universities as members. Hardcastle is deputy PI.
    •   UKIDSS (Lucas, Pinfield): the United Kingdom Infared Deep Sky Survey was a UK-led
        international project involving several dozen researchers in ten countries. It was awarded

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        c.1000 nights on the United Kingdom Infrared Telescope from 2005--2013 and the final
        data release (DR10) was completed in January 2015 with the addition of Galactic Plane
        Survey (GPS) data, one of the five components of UKIDSS. Lucas is head of the GPS.
    •   WEAVE consortium: an international consortium with hundreds of members worldwide,
        building the WEAVE spectroscopic facility for delivery to the William Herschel Telescope
        (WHT) and then spending 70% of all WHT time for five years conducting surveys with it.
        WEAVE was funded by an international consortium including those that sponsor the
        Isaac Newton Group of Telescopes (STFC, NWO, IAC) as well as many more. Smith is a
        WEAVE builder; Gledhill and Hardcastle are consortium members.
    •   WEAVE-LOFAR: an international consortium containing around 65 members from
        countries throughout Europe. It will spend five years obtaining more than a million
        spectra of sources identified in the LOFAR Surveys KSP. Funding for WEAVE-LOFAR
        has come from STFC, as well as contributions from Leiden University and Edinburgh
        University. Smith is lead investigator, Hardcastle is a survey builder.
    •   SASSy: the SCUBA-2 Ambitious Sky Survey was a large programme on the JCMT to
        carry out a wide and shallow survey of the Outer Galaxy. The international survey
        consortium has 48 members. Unit participation is Thompson (PI), Chrysostomou and
        Forbrich.
    •   SPACE: Submillimetre Polarisation and AstroChemistry in Earliest star formation is a
        polarimetry and molecular mapping follow-up to the successful SCOPE continuum
        survey. SPACE is a JCMT Large Project led by China and with over 100 members from
        the East Asian Observatory partners, the UK and Canada. Thompson is UK coordinator
        for the survey.
    •   S2LXS: the SCUBA-2 Large eXtragalactic Survey, a large programme on the JCMT run
        by an international collaboration of 100 members (UK, Japan and other EAO member
        states). Geach is co-lead, Coppin and Smith are co-Is.
    •   S2CLS: the SCUBA-2 Cosmology Legacy Survey, a former large programme on the
        JCMT run by an international collaboration (UK, Canada, Netherlands). Geach was
        programme manager.
    •   LITTLE THINGS: is an international Large Programme on the NRAO Very Large Array
        to understand the star formation properties of dwarf galaxies. Brinks leads the radio
        continuum work package and is co-lead of the overall project.
    •   BRIDGCE: the STFC-funded UK consortium on nuclear astrophysics (BRIdge the
        Disciplines related to the Galactic Chemical Evolution) including ~60 members scattered
        across 16 institutes, started in 2014. Kobayashi is the PI, and Ryan is a co-I.
    •   AtLAST: The Atacama Large Aperture Submillimetre Telescope: a collaboration
        performing a H2020-funded (Research and Innovation programme) development study
        for a new large aperture submm telescope in the Atacama. AtLAST is an international
        project with leadership from the UK and Europe and involvement from Japan. Geach is
        co-lead of the science working group, Coppin is a co-I.
    •   ChETEC: the EU COST Action on nuclear astrophysics (Chemical Elements as Tracers
        of the Evolution of the Cosmos), 0.6M EUR funded in 2017-2021. Kobayashi is a
        Management Committee member.
    •   SCOPE: SCUBA-2 Continuum Observations of Pre-protostellar Evolution is a large
        survey programme on the JCMT, involving a consortium of over 160 members from the
        East Asian Observatory partners (China, Japan, Taiwan, and South Korea), the UK and
        Canada. Thompson is UK coordinator for the survey.

 CACP large collaborations include:

    •   NCAS: the National Centre for Atmospheric Science is a world leading research centre,
        funded by the Natural Environment Research Council, with over 200 members of staff,
        embedded at 12 universities and research institutes across the UK. Chemel is core
        member of staff.
    •   NERC/MOES project: the Air Pollution and Human Health project, PROMOTE funded by
        NERC and MOES (India). It focuses on process analysis of air quality in and around

                                                                                         Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Delhi and consists of 5 UK and 5 Indian organisations with four other international
        partners (USEPA, WMO, NOAA, PNNL). Coordinated by Sokhi. Other staff involved:
        Tiwari.
    •   H2020 project, EMERGE: this focuses on the impact of shipping emissions on the
        environment and human health. It consists of 18 International partners. Sokhi is lead for
        WP5 Modelling of Air Pollution from Shipping Emissions. Other staff involved: Tiwari
    •   PREFIA – Air Quality and Meteorological Prediction and Forecasting Improvement for
        Africa (PREFIA) is an initiative of the World Meteorological Organisation’s Global
        Atmospheric Watch Programme (WMO/GAW). It aims to improve air pollution capabilities
        at local to regional scales for African continent and urban areas. It comprises over 60
        African and other international scientists. Coordinated by Sokhi.
    •   WMO/GAW Programme is undertaking a coordinated study of the impact of COVID-19
        lockdown measures on air quality across cities globally. It consists of nearly 100
        scientists contributing to the research. This study is being led by Sokhi.
    •   International Conference on Air Quality – Science and Application is a community
        collaborative event which started in 1996 at the University and is held every two years. It
        has become the key international research conference in the field of Air Quality. The
        committee consists of nearly 30 international scientists. This conference has been
        chaired by Sokhi since its start in 1996.

 Contributions to Economy and Society
 The Unit research is disseminated to the public through a wide range of outreach and public
 engagement channels and through regular media exposure. News outlets featuring the Unit
 include the BBC (Brinks, Geach, Hardcastle, Jones), CNN (Hardcastle), the Guardian (Geach,
 Jones), the Mirror and Express (Jones), the Daily Mail (Jones, Sokhi) the Times (Geach) and
 New Scientist (Jones, Kobayashi). Unit staff regularly contribute to The Conversation (Brinks,
 Geach, Jones, Krause). Geach has authored two popular books ('Five Photons' and 'Galaxy:
 Mapping the Cosmos') in the reporting period. A wide range of staff give public talks and lectures
 to local and national audiences.

 Much of the Unit’s public engagement programme is centred around activity at the University’s
 Bayfordbury Observatory. One of its principal channels is via its public open evenings, which
 annually welcome over 2000 guests at monthly events between October and March. Unit staff
 draw on their research to provide talks, planetarium shows and interactive demonstrations.
 Bayfordbury also hosts around 60 visits per year from a variety of private groups and
 organisations. These groups bring a total of ∼1500 people to the observatory, with ∼70% being
 under the age of 18. Most adult visitors have little to no background in physics or astronomy.
 Since 2017, Bayfordbury has also served as home base for the UK’s largest mobile planetarium.
 Equipped with a cutting-edge sound diffusion system and full dome projection, the Cosmodrome
 has welcomed more than 7000 festival goers since 2018, many of whom have not previously
 engaged with astronomy research (Burningham). In addition to music and arts festivals, the
 Cosmodrome is also taken to more traditional regional and national science festivals.

 PAM’s Outreach and Public Engagement (OPE) officer leads its work with schools, supported by
 SEPnet and the Ogden Trust, and delivers its strategy of raising the science capital of young
 people from hard-to-reach communities. Building on a successful history of working with schools
 across London, the South East and Central England, the strategy is focused on building lasting
 relationships with students and schools in the most deprived and underserved communities in
 the region. In parallel to this, the Unit runs a small number of Space and Physics events at
 secondary schools throughout the year and hosts the Ogden Trust’s School Physicist of The
 Year awards for the Eastern Region. A team from the Unit, led by the OPE officer with the active
 participation of PGR students, also contributes to the Big Bang Fair East of England event,
 hosted at the University, and runs the mobile planetarium that visits schools across the region.

 Unit research contributes to the local and national economy. Within the reporting period a
 ‘Framework’ agreement, covering both the PID group and the Department of Engineering’s

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 MEMS group under the title ‘Centre for Hazard Detection and Protection Research’, was signed
 between the University and Dstl (2014-2018). The agreement streamlined the awarding of
 targeted contract research programmes at the University funded by Dstl and was a result of the
 long (at least two decades) and very successful collaboration that PID had enjoyed with Dstl in
 the development of bioaerosol detection technologies (Kaye, Stopford). The PID group's long-
 standing collaboration with Alphasense Ltd. has included job creation (~10-12 new posts
 dedicated to the production of Optical Particle Counters (OPCs) developed by PID). As a result
 of the successful collaboration, Alphasense has opened a new 400m2 building adjacent to their
 present site for expansion of the OPC production facility.

 Following a successful Dstl-supported scoping project with marine defence contractor ATLAS-
 Elektronik UK Ltd (AEUK), whose focus was on applying a machine learning algorithm to the
 automatic detection of submarine hazards in high resolution sonar imaging, CAR was awarded a
 3-year STFC Innovation Fellowship in 2018, undertaking a project called ‘ASTROSENSE:
 applying astrophysics algorithms to remote sensing data’ (Geach). In this project staff are
 developing and applying object detection and classification algorithms for astrophysics data
 (typically imaging, but also data cubes) to other areas. The goal is to develop a versatile, robust
 algorithm that can be deployed in a variety of practical areas, with a view to performing real-time
 image classification and analysis on input data, both from astrophysics and industrial sectors.

 CoDIR has been involved in the development of a novel deep learning algorithm for Earth
 Observation called ‘ClearSky’. This algorithm can predict the full spectrum visible-infrared
 reflectance response of the ground using Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR), providing monitoring
 of the Earth's surface uninterrupted by cloud. The work has been funded largely through external
 grant income via STFC (~£285k) and has resulted in UK and international patent applications
 through the University (UK patent published in February 2021). CoDIR is collaborating with
 Rothamsted Research-based Agrimetrics Ltd. to deliver ClearSky data products to the
 agricultural/agronomy industry (Geach). The 12-month project ‘ClearSky: cloud-free monitoring
 of UK agriculture’ is funded by the STFC's Challenge Led Applied Systems Programme
 (CLASP). The deliverables of this project are: (1) weekly monitoring data of every field in the UK
 (e.g., assessing vegetation density) to be marketed to the agritech sector (e.g., precision
 farming, large food producers), and (2) a free-to-use mobile and web application providing
 individual farmers across the UK with weekly monitoring and statistics related to the growth and
 health of crops and pasture. This information can be used to make on-the-ground decisions
 improving the efficiency of land use (e.g., optimizing irrigation, fertilization) and improve food
 security (e.g., identifying environmental threats such as flooding and drought).

 CACP influences science agendas through national and international collaboration, often
 multidisciplinary, to understand how multiscale transport and dynamics of air pollution along with
 atmospheric composition affect climate (Müller, Tatarov, Tiwari and Sokhi) and human health
 (Sokhi). CACP is involved in the development and testing of new modelling approaches for
 characterising composition and morphology of aerosols (Baran, Hesse), downscaling for
 regional climate, and air quality predictions (Chemel, Sokhi, Tiwari); innovative remote sensing
 retrieval algorithms are intrinsic strands of CACP’s research. CACP staff also engage with policy
 making bodies such as DEFRA, WHO and WMO (Sokhi). This research will derive significant
 benefits in the future from emerging developments of the Unit’s Lidar system for chemical
 characterisation of air pollutants and Raman and fluorescence microscopic spectroscopy.

 Contributions to Sustainability of Discipline
 Unit staff contribute through a variety of ways:

 Journal editorships: Staff served in the following editorial roles. Brinks, Section Editor for
 Physics & Astronomy, SpringerPlus (2012-2016); Editor in Chief, Astrophysics & Space Science
 (2014-); Editor in Chief (Section Physics and Applied Physics), 4open (EDP Sciences, 2017-).
 Chemel, Member of the Editorial Board of the journal Frontiers in Atmospheric Science (2013-);
 Member of the Editorial Board of the journal Atmosphere (2017-). Napiwotzki, Associate Editor,


                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Astronomy & Astrophysics (2011-2014). Sokhi, Journal of Urban Climate, Editorial Board
 Member.

 Participation on grants committees: Unit staff take their responsibility to the broader
 community seriously and routinely take on grant and proposal review at a range of levels. Some
 of the more significant activities follow. Brinks served in 2014 as Member on an NSF review
 panel and in the reporting period served three years on one of the ALMA review panels. He is a
 Member of the IRAM TAC. He also served on the STFC Ernest Rutherford panel (2018-2020).
 Burningham was Panel Member 2016-2018 for the NASA K2 Guest Observer Review and
 served on the NSF (USA) Planetary Astronomy grant panel (2015). Chemel is a member of the
 NERC Peer Review College. Coppin served on one of the ALMA review panels and on the LMT
 TAC. Forbrich is member of the e-MERLIN Time Allocation Group (2019-present) and EVN
 Programme Committee (2020-present) and served on the ALMA (2018-2020) and NRAO (2018-
 2019) Science Review Panels. Geach served on ESO OPC panel B (2016-2017; P98-P100) and
 is a Member of the Royal Society Research System Committee (2019-present). Hardcastle was
 member (2014-2017) and chair (2018-2020) of the STFC PATT panel, chair of the e-MERLIN
 time allocation group (2007-2015), and NRAO peer review panel member (2018-2019) and XMM
 peer review panels (panel chair 2014-2015, panel member 2018-2019). He also participated in
 an STFC DTC review as panel member (2019) and served as a PPRP external expert (2018-
 2019). Jones reviewed NASA’s Exoplanets Research Programme, assisted the selection of
 STFC-UKRI Global Research Challenges (2017-2018), was panel member on the NASA
 Emerging Worlds project (2016-2018) and in 2014 served on the STFC Project Review Board.
 Kaviraj sits on ESO OPC Galaxy Panel B. Kobayashi sat in 2017 on the Management
 Committee of EU COST Action “ChETEC: Chemical Element as Tracers of the Evolution of the
 Cosmos” (PI: R. Hirschi). Krause served twice on the INTEGRAL Time Allocation Committee
 (ESA) and is now a member of the STFC Ernest Rutherford panel (2020-). Lucas sat on the
 Subaru TAC (2017-2019) and on the STFC review committee for ESA M5 missions. Napiwotzki
 served on the STFC PATT TAG for the ING (2015-2018). Thompson sat on the UK Space
 Agency review panel as an ad hoc member for the ESA L3 LISA mission (2017-18) and served
 on the STFC Ernest Rutherford panel (Near Universe 2015-2017).

 Fellowships and prizes: the Unit celebrates the achievements of its staff. Highlights of the
 reporting period include: Coppin was awarded a Royal Society Leverhulme Senior Research
 Fellowship (2019) and Devereux a Daphne Jackson Fellowship (2016). Geach gained an
 extension of his Royal Society University Research Fellowship (2018-2021). Hardcastle was
 recognised with Fellowship of the Institute of Physics (2013) and an ScD from Cambridge
 (2019). Kaviraj accepted a Visiting Scholarship at the IAP, Paris (2019). He was also part of the
 Galaxy Zoo team which was honoured in 2019 with an RAS Group Achievement Award.
 Stopford was a Green Gown Awards 2019 Finalist for his work on low-cost air quality monitoring.
 Łukowski held a Titchmarsh Fellowship (2013 – 2018) at the University of Oxford. Tiwari
 received a Junior Associate award in 2017 from the International Centre for Theoretical Physics
 (ICTP), Italy. PGR student Tracy Garratt was one of 3 recipients of the inaugural round of Bell-
 Burnell awards (2020).

 Membership of Research Council or similar national and international committees: Brinks
 is a member of the nominating committee of the EAS. Hardcastle was a member of the e-
 MERLIN Steering Committee (2007-2015) and is a member of the UK SKA Science Committee
 (2019 to date) and one of the SKA Regional Centres (SRC) Working Groups (2020 to date).
 Sokhi served on an Expert Panel for the Hong Kong Environmental Protection Department, was
 member of a DEFRA’s Air Quality Modelling Steering Group, (2014-2016) and sits on the
 Predictive Capability Working Group which falls under the Air Quality Strategic Evidence
 Leadership Group. He is Co-chair of the Science Advisory Group of the World Meteorological
 Organisations’ Global Atmospheric Watch Urban Research in Environment and Meteorology
 (GURME) and Chair of WMO/GAW Air Quality Prediction and Forecasting Improvement for
 Africa (PREFIA). Thompson is the University Steering Board member for Development in Africa
 with Radio Astronomy network, serves on the UK Space Agency Herschel Space Observatory


                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Oversight Committee (2009-), and served on the STFC UK SKA Science Committee (2014-
 2017).

 Invited keynotes, lectures, or conference chair roles: Unit staff served on the SOC of over 50
 international conferences and presented 125 invited or keynote talks at international
 conferences or meetings. SOC chair or session convener roles include the following. Kaviraj:
 Unveiling the low surface-brightness Universe: the new era of deep-wide surveys, UK National
 Astronomy Meeting, Hull (Jul 2017); Galaxies Workshop at LSST@Europe 2, Belgrade, Serbia
 (Jun 2016); LSST Galaxies Workshop, Oxford, UK (2016); Galaxies at High Redshift and their
 Evolution over Cosmic Time, IAU Symposium 319 at the IAU General Assembly, Honolulu, USA,
 Aug 2015). Krause: workshop: “Superbubbles, HI holes and Supershells”, 10-12 November
 2014, Freising, Germany; Splinter meeting J, “The Interstellar Medium”, Astronomische
 Gesellschaft, Bamberg, 22-26 September 2014. Smith: WEAVE-LOFAR conference in Oxford,
 March 2016. Thompson: Galactic Science with the SKA & its pathfinders, Lorentz centre
 workshop 2014. Jones: Photonics for Planets (Florence, 2014); Astrophotonics Summer School
 (Durham, 2015). Coppin: SMG20 – Twenty years of Submillimetre Galaxies (Durham, 2017).
 Hardcastle: Relativity at Work – Supermassive black holes, AGN and quasars, 30th Texas
 Symposium on Relativistic Astrophysics (Portsmouth, 2019). Forbrich: Orion (un)plugged,
 (Vienna, 2015); Cool Stars 20 (Boston, 2018); Regional VLBI Workshop (Mexico City, 2019);
 Orion uncovered (Leiden, 2019); Star formation across the Universe (Hatfield, 2020).

 Peer review activities: Unit staff regularly carry out refereeing activities for high-profile journals
 such as Nature, Science, Nature Astronomy, Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society,
 Astronomy and Astrophysics, The Astrophysical Journal, The Astronomical Journal, Physical
 Review Letters, Journal of High Energy Physics, Communications in Mathematical
 Physics, Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical, Atmospheric Chemistry and
 Physics, Quarterly Journal of the Royal Meteorological Society, Atmospheric Research, Climate
 Dynamics, and Optics Letters. They have reviewed grant proposals for the Royal Society and
 Royal Astronomical Society, as well as national research councils in the USA, Netherlands,
 Belgium, Austria, Italy, Germany, Poland, Canada, New Zealand, France, Estonia and South
 Africa.

 Co-operation and collaborative arrangements for PGR student training: the University is one of
 the nine universities that comprise SEPnet which co-ordinates, among other things, joint
 postgraduate training in physics and astrophysics across the member institutions, including a
 recently launched Doctoral Training Network focussing on engagement with SMEs. Training
 events offered to SEPnet PGRs include its Winter and Summer Schools, a 2-day IOP/SEPnet
 event “Turning Science into Business”, an IOP/SEPnet event focussed on “Taking control of
 your career as a woman in physics”, and “Opportunities beyond your PhD”, in collaboration with
 the National Physical Laboratory and Skillfluence.

 The Unit participates in the national EPSRC CDT in Aerosol Science. Each of the 10 PhD
 students at the University will partner with one of the Centre’s 45 industrial and public sector
 partners which include AstraZeneca, Defra, Dstl, the Environment Agency, Rothamsted
 Research, and the Met Office, in collaborative research programmes.




                                                                                               Page 19
