Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Nottingham Trent University (NTU)

 Unit of Assessment: C18 – Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Strategic Context and Structure

 Context

 Nottingham Law School’s (NLS) academic staff strive for excellence across a wide range of legal
 disciplines and methodologies. Imbued with the distinctive spirit of one of the UK’s leading full-
 service law schools, they work across traditional disciplinary boundaries and effect real-world
 change.

 Through sustained leadership, investment and researcher development since REF2014, NLS has
 forged a vibrant, inclusive and sustainable research environment that draws upon the School’s
 long-standing expertise in legal practice and scholarship.

 The School has three Research Centres which embody and encapsulate its core research
 strengths:

       The Centre for Rights and Justice;
       The Centre for Business and Insolvency Law; and
       The Centre for Legal Education.

 With over 2,800 students and 105 academic staff, NLS offers legal education at all levels:
 undergraduate; academic postgraduate; professional postgraduate; and CPD. Accordingly, at the
 very heart of the School’s collective identity and culture is a very clear ethos: an unwavering belief
 in, and commitment to, the symbiosis between academic legal research on the one hand and legal
 professional practice and pedagogy on the other.

 Since REF2014 NLS has engineered strong, sustained, and sustainable growth across the key
 areas of its research environment. It has:

       returned outputs from 18.1 FTE compared with 13 in REF2014;
       produced a total of 284 research outputs;
       increased its research income by a factor of seven, with awards totalling £578,645 as
        compared with £81,676 in REF2014;
       grown its post-graduate-research student (PGR) community from 25 in 2014 to 40 at the
        time of reporting;
       more than doubled its PGR completions from 11 in REF2014 to 28 in the current cycle;
        and
       re-imagined the strategic and day-to-day management of research within the School, with
        the creation of: the role of Associate Dean for Research (ADR); the Research Steering
        Group; Individual Research Plans and Mentors; and a competitive sabbatical scheme. In
        addition, NLS has recalibrated the annual appraisal process to place greater emphasis on
        support for research.

 Strategy

 The ‘Valuing Ideas’ theme within NTU’s strategic plan sets out a determination to ‘expand [its]
 research excellence’ and to ‘develop and nurture the next generation of researchers’. NLS has
 fully embraced, and been a beneficiary of, this vision. It has resulted in considerable investment
 in research infrastructure, researcher support and development, and staff/PGR recruitment.
 Research is now central to the School’s mission; an inclusive, collegial and supportive research
 environment has been engendered, carefully nurtured, and continues to grow from strength to

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strength. Activity is supported through the School’s Strategic Research Fund, targeting in
 particular the generation of high-quality outputs, the preparation of funding bids, and enhancing
 the reach and significance of impact (see Sections 2 and 4).

 Since REF2014 NLS, underpinned by powerful and sustained institution-level commitment, has
 pursued a dedicated and clear research strategy with an overarching ambition to create, apply
 and share new knowledge that changes lives and society. In pursuit of this goal, NLS has sought
 to invest in three main priorities throughout the current cycle:

    1. To enhance the quality and volume of its research outputs.
    2. To bolster the significance, reach and impact of its engagement with end-users and
       external stakeholders.
    3. To increase external grant capture.

 Priority 1 - To enhance the quality and volume of our research outputs.
 Significant progress has been made during this REF period; 284 outputs, including 14
 monographs, have been produced. NLS emphasises quality over quantity in terms of individual
 outputs and prioritises time and resources for colleagues working on outputs that might realistically
 be regarded as world-leading or internationally excellent. To this end, all research active staff are
 allocated a formal research mentor who aids in the inception, creation and fine-tuning of outputs
 in a supportive and collaborative process (see Section 2).

 Additionally, published outputs are assessed internally by members of the Research Steering
 Group, overseen by the ADR, as well as by external assessors chosen for their disciplinary
 expertise and experience. Feedback and guidance as to quality are then fed back to authors to
 inform the trajectory of future research. This process has provided useful evidence of improvement
 in the quality of outputs and helped to promote a culture in which the significance of the
 contribution to academic debate and real-world impact is viewed as more important than the mere
 number of outputs produced.

 In addition to these research outputs, staff across all pathways (see REF5a) have produced high
 quality student textbooks, practitioner reference works, commissioned reports and responses to
 consultations. NLS’s broad staff base enables research-active staff to enrich the quality of their
 outputs through consulting and co-authoring with colleagues on other pathways drawing on their
 practical or pedagogical expertise (e.g., Ferris and Johnson, 2017).

 Priority 2 - To bolster the significance, reach and impact of our engagement with end-users and
 external stakeholders.
 NLS’s impact strategy stresses the symbiosis between research, teaching and practice so as to
 build on partnerships in ways that enable it to have an impact upon lives and society locally,
 nationally and globally. The School has drawn on its Strategic Research Fund to enable staff
 propagate their research among national and international stakeholders through hosting
 conferences and workshops, producing policy briefs and national/international travel (as
 appropriate). Impact generating activities are driven, supported and tracked by an Impact
 Champion, a new role created within the School in 2018. Liaising with the Research Development
 Team, the Impact Champion hosts a range of staff development events and mentors individuals
 to enable them to identify relevant stakeholders and develop individualised pathways to impact.

 NLS encourages staff to disseminate their research not only via academic outputs, but also
 through pieces for general readership (e.g., traditional media, blogs, and outlets such as The
 Conversation) and – where relevant – through shorter publications in practitioner-facing outlets.
 During the current period, NLS has established new local, national and international collaborations
 and partnerships with a range of end-users across the public, private and third sectors. These
 have included: the College of Policing and the Law Commission, which have enhanced Trickett’s
 impact case study; and the Legal Services Board, the Law Society of Ireland and the IMPACT
 Justice Caribbean Law Institution, which have enhanced Ching’s case study.



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 One project that paradigmatically illustrates the symbiosis inherent in the School’s collective
 identity is ‘The Rule of Law, Human Rights and Anti-Corruption in Armenia’ project in collaboration
 with Yerevan State University and the Republic of Armenia School of Advocates (2018). A grant
 of US$200k from the US Department of State enabled the creation and delivery of a suite of
 courses to practising Armenian lawyers, students and law teachers on human rights, anti-
 corruption, women and the law, juvenile justice, pre-trial detention and advocates’ ethics. This
 project was only feasible by virtue of the School’s unique blend of strengths: research expertise in
 the fields of human rights, equality law, criminal justice and anti-corruption, allied with long-
 standing and profound experience of delivering professional legal education nationally and
 internationally. This initiative has resulted in on-the-ground change in Armenia, equipping the
 School of Advocates to run the relevant courses in future years. The project has also generated a
 valuable on-going relationship for the School with colleagues in the law faculty of Yerevan State
 University (ranked first in that country).

 Other projects promising the potential for significant future impact include: Zhao’s work on
 corporate social responsibility in China; Hall and Lewis’s work on developing public
 understandings of human rights and religious tolerance; Doak’s work on developing theoretically-
 informed approaches to best practice in non-adversarial justice; and Berry’s work on the reform of
 partnership law.

 Priority 3 - To increase external grant capture.
 The School has targeted serious effort on increasing its external income by extending the range,
 ambition and quality of its funding applications in the current REF period. These efforts have
 yielded great success: across this cycle NLS has increased its research income seven-fold with
 NLS researchers securing £578,645 as compared to £81,676 over the previous one.

 The School’s success has been enabled by encouraging colleagues to develop more ambitious,
 collaborative funding applications, drawing on cross-disciplinary expertise both within and beyond
 the University. NLS offers a range of informal and formal support to staff, including pre-submission
 review of applications. Only strong grant applications are supported, with applicants working on
 their proposals with support from the University’s Pre-Award team.

 Opportunities for income generation and grant calls are filtered and circulated on a weekly basis
 by a member of the professoriate to all research-active staff. All such staff also subscribe to
 Research Professional. These measures have resulted in colleagues securing awards from UKRI,
 UK charities and government, as well as awards from international governments, regulators and
 charities. The awards support research across all the School’s Research Centres and reflect a
 strategic focus to ensure a diverse and sustainable income stream (see Section 3).

 The three priorities outlined above are delivered through clear leadership, appointments and
 promotions, and the investment of resource in developing both the School’s research capacity and
 capability. An annual School Research and Innovation Plan is developed, which reviews
 achievements and sets objectives for the forthcoming year. Investment is explicitly targeted to
 support the achievement of objectives and their success is reviewed annually. This Plan supports
 the work of Research Centres, including the development of quality outputs, funded projects,
 research impact, and enhancement of the research environment.

 The following initiatives during the period have been instrumental in the School having made
 significant progress across all three priority areas (see further Section 2):

       the creation of the research leadership role of Associate Dean for Research through
        earmarked funding from the University;
       a reconfiguring of the annual appraisal process to place more emphasis on support for
        research;
       Individual Research Plans;
       a proactive mentoring system;
       a dedicated research budget to enhance the quality and visibility of its activities;

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       the introduction of a competitive sabbatical scheme;
       the augmentation of the existing system of teaching buyout (to allow ring-fenced time for
        research); and
       the adoption of a strategic approach to staff recruitment, retention and development.

 Structure

 Research Leadership
 Responsibility for strategic and operational oversight is provided by the ADR (Doak) - a specific
 role created through NTU investment in all eight schools during the current cycle - who sits on the
 School’s Senior Management Team. The ADR works closely with the Executive Dean of the Law
 School, the Executive Dean (Research) and the Deputy Vice-Chancellor - Research and
 Enterprise. The ADR is also a member of NTU’s University Leadership Team, Academic Research
 Leadership Team and University Research Committee. He is supported by the Unit Coordinator,
 Funding, and Athena SWAN Champions, the Research Steering Group and the School Research
 and Innovation Committee.

 The ADR acts as chair of the School Research and Innovation Committee, at which all Centre
 Directors, PGR Tutors, and student representatives are present. The Committee supports the
 implementation of the University’s Research Strategy and aims to promote a strong research
 culture across the School. Operational research matters are overseen by the Research Steering
 Group, which comprises members of the research professoriate. The Group monitors Centres’
 activities, reviews progress on specific research projects, and administers staff research hours,
 sabbaticals, mentoring and allocation of the School’s Strategic Research Fund.


 Research Centres
 Research in the School is organised under the auspices of three Research Centres: the Centre
 for Rights and Justice (CRJ); the Centre for Business and Insolvency Law (CBIL); and the
 Centre for Legal Education (CLE). These provide platforms for collaboration, promotion and
 dissemination of high-quality research, as well as mentoring and support.

 All staff with significant responsibility for research have a primary Research Centre affiliation and
 are able to join additional Centres according to their interests. Membership of the Centres
 comprises those staff with significant responsibility for research. Additionally, and in keeping with
 the School’s belief in the symbiotic relation between research, practice and teaching, all academic
 staff as well as PGR students are welcome to be members of one or more Centres, depending on
 their interests, and to participate in their events.

 The Centres are allocated a budget by the School’s Research Steering Group (see below) based
 on a proposed plan of activities. These budgets are administered by the Centre Directors to
 enhance the quality of research activities, including workshops, seminars and conferences. The
 Centres also play a key role in anchoring a sense of identity for PGR students. In addition to the
 Research Centres, NLS also has two practitioner-facing Centres, the Centre for Mediation and
 Dispute Resolution and the Centre for Advocacy.


 Centre for Rights and Justice
 Established in 2013, the CRJ (led by Lewis) comprises 37 members including 6 PGR candidates.
 The Centre brings together research, practice and scholarship in: human rights (Berry, Doak, Hall,
 Kemp, Lewis, O’Nions); international humanitarian law (Chadwick); immigration and asylum law
 (O’Nions); domestic and international criminal law and criminal justice (Chadwick, Doak, Henham,
 Thornton, Trickett); law and religion (Hall, Lewis); medical law (Garwood-Gowers); and
 international environmental law (Ong). The CRJ has its own on-line refereed journal, the Journal
 of Rights and Justice. This wide range of research areas has received funding from a similarly
 broad range of sources including ESRC, Nuffield Trust, British Arts Council and British Academy.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Trickett’s work on the policing of hate crime forms the basis of one of the Unit’s impact case
 studies.


 Centre for Business and Insolvency Law
 Founded in 2012, CBIL (co-led by Parry and Zhao) has a membership of 28 including 12 PGR
 candidates whose interests gravitate around corporate regulation and practice. It has particular
 strengths in: insolvency law (Parry, Walters, Zhao); international investment law (Sahin); banking
 law (Moffatt and Zharikov); partnership law (Berry); corporate law (Wilson, Zhao); and corporate
 governance (Zhao). Its membership includes external members from the judiciary and legal
 practice and members have collaborated with a range of corporations and government
 organisations based in the UK, China, Canada, Jordan, Germany, Italy and Nigeria. CBIL operated
 its own online refereed journal, the Nottingham Insolvency and Business Law e-Journal.

 The harmonious link between research and practice is exemplified by the fact that several CBIL
 members have produced some of the leading practitioner-focused texts in their areas; for example:
 J Aycliffe, R Parry and S Shivji, Transaction avoidance in insolvencies (2018 OUP) 3rd ed; and E
 Berry and R Parry, Law of insolvent partnerships and limited liability partnerships (2015 Wildy,
 Simmonds and Hill). Research activity of the Centre has been funded by a number of national and
 international bodies including the ESRC, Midlands4Cities DTP, the Norwegian Industrial Patent
 Office, European Patent Office, and the Society of Legal Scholars.


 Centre for Legal Education
 The CLE (led by Ching), established in 2012, has a membership of 20 including 3 PGR candidates.
 It has a national and international reputation in education (including CPD), regulation, and
 compliance. CLE addresses a range of themes, including professional ethics (Ching, Hudson,
 Jarman), well-being, motivation and engagement (Ferris, Henderson, Wakelin), and vulnerability
 from the perspectives of professionals, educators and students (Ching, Ferris). The CLE also
 works with a visiting professor (Leighton) and two visiting senior fellows (Bone, Curran) with
 connections in the UK, France and Australia. Its international advisory committee is composed of
 senior academics and legal practitioners from Australia, Canada, Chile, Egypt, Germany and the
 USA.

 The Centre attracts research students and research income nationally and internationally (see
 Section 4). Centre members (Ching, Henderson, Jarman) have been commissioned to carry out
 funded research or consultancy for government, professional bodies or NGOs across some 22
 countries, with significant impacts across the UK, the Republic of Ireland, Canada, Hong Kong,
 Mauritius, Mongolia and the CARICOM nations. Ferris’ research focuses on the use of values
 within legal education.

 These projects have generated research funding of from a diverse range of government and
 professional bodies, including the US Department of State, the Canadian Government (Improved
 Access to Justice in the Caribbean (IMPACT), and the Law Society of Alberta. Research by Ching
 and others underpins the Unit’s second impact case study.

 Future Ambitions

 NLS will continue to build a vibrant, inclusive and sustainable research environment, drawing on
 its deep expertise in practice and scholarship. NLS’ overall strategy will continue to shape and
 enhance its research and the impact it has on the world beyond academia. In particular it aims to:

       Extend its engagement with disciplinary and cross-cutting developments relating to some
        of the most significant global challenges, particularly in light of the recent pandemic. Key
        issues include the rights, safety and security of vulnerable individuals and groups, the
        accountability of public and private sector bodies, and the financial and environmental
        sustainability of the public, private and third sectors.

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Enhance its capacity and capability to undertake research with external impact, forging
        proactive collaborations with national and international partners, both academic and non-
        academic, in particular through enhancing its partnerships with civil society, corporations,
        law reform bodies and government institutions/agencies.
       Consolidate its commitment to an open research culture by exploring emerging routes to
        output dissemination, in particular by building on its public engagement with practitioners,
        corporations and policymakers through social media, and developing infrastructure to
        support more open access opportunities.
       Further develop diverse and inclusive research communities and strengthen an
        environment that supports PGRs and ECRs through: further investment in
        training/development; increasing time allocated for research in workloads; and creating
        further opportunities for more members of staff to apply for sabbaticals.

 The School’s success will be: measured against University targets; overseen by the ADR;
 assessed through appraisals and Individual Research Plans; and reported to the School Research
 and Innovation Committee.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy

 NLS operates an inclusive strategy to recruit and retain leading researchers. The success of this
 strategy is evidenced by the considerable expansion of its research staff base: 18.1 FTE have
 been returned to the current exercise compared with 13 in REF2014. Of those 13, the majority
 (7.4 FTE) have been returned in REF2021, 3.6 FTE have retired, while 2 have moved to other
 institutions. During the period the School has successfully recruited internationally renowned
 researchers at professorial level including Doak (from Durham), Kirk (from Dundee), and Zhao
 (from Leeds). Two of these posts were funded through the University’s Strategic Investment Fund.
 The growth in the School’s research power is underscored by the fact that all the outputs returned
 in REF 2021 are authored by staff who were employed by NLS at the census date.

 Recruitment is overseen by the Executive Dean and the Senior Management Team, and whenever
 an academic vacancy arises, or where new resources are secured to expand, careful
 consideration is given to the relevant profile and expertise that NLS should look to recruit to ensure
 that the delivery of the course curriculum aligns with NLS research strategy. The majority of those
 recruited to teach on academic courses now hold a PhD or are very close to achieving one (with
 the exception of staff recruited to teach on the portfolio of professional courses). They should also
 demonstrate a clear research trajectory that aligns with the ambitions and mission of the School.


 Staff Development and Progression
 NLS aims to develop high-performing and empowered research-active staff at all stages of their
 career through ensuring a positive, diverse and collaborative working environment. Since
 REF2014, three staff have been supported through the promotions process to the level of
 professor (Jarman, Lewis and Moffatt) and six to associate professor (Denoncourt, Hall,
 Homewood, Jarman, O’Nions, Trickett).

 Staff development and investment are resourced through two separate funds (the Strategic
 Research Fund and the Staff Development Fund). During 2019/20 the total sum allocated from
 these funds for research-related activity was £87k. This sum facilitated staff-buyout (including
 sabbaticals), dissemination activities (including national and international conferences) and user-
 facing engagement activities (including hosting and attendance at practitioner/professional-facing
 workshops). Funds are awarded through the School’s Staff Development request process which
 ensures fair distribution of the budget across a range of activities and colleagues. The Strategic
 Research Fund is specifically targeted at activities associated with the generation of high-quality
 outputs, the preparation of funding bids, and enhancing the reach and significance of impact.
 Examples include: the funding of six research assistants to support impact activities; the

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 completion of monographs (Adamidis, Chadwick, O’Neill); assistance with horizon-scanning,
 engagement and dissemination work (Hall and Lewis’s work with schools and museums on
 toleration and human rights); and furthering the reach of Trickett’s work on the policing of hate
 crime.

 The School also provides financial and logistical/time support to staff without higher degrees to
 pursue PGR study if they wish to register for part-time study either at NTU or at other institutions.
 During the REF period, 13 staff have been supported in this way to complete PhDs or Professional
 Doctorates.

 In line with the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 and the Vitae Researcher Developer Framework, staff development is facilitated through an
 annual appraisal process. This process includes the submission of an Individual Research Plan
 which identifies and sets targets for publishing and funding applications and impact and
 engagement activities over a rolling five-year period.


 Inclusivity, Equality and Diversity
 NLS is a vibrant place to work, enriched by the diverse perspectives, cultures and backgrounds
 brought by students, staff, visitors, and local, national and international partners. The School
 recognises that diverse teams encourage more creative and innovative solutions to major
 research questions at the interface of academic legal research, professional practice, and
 pedagogy. The University adopts uniform career progression principles from ECR to Professor to
 ensure that succession, retention, gender and diversity balance is achieved.
 The University was awarded the bronze Athena Swan charter mark in April 2019 (see REF5a) and
 the School is targeting a submission for a bronze award in 2023. The School’s Athena SWAN
 champion (Ching) leads efforts in addressing local level challenges in relation to gender equality
 for staff and students. She also coordinates events for International Women’s week with other
 colleagues organising events for Black History month and LGBT+ History month. NLS has
 supported three members of staff to undertake the Advanced HE Aurora programme.

 Recruitment across NLS uses gender decoding of recruitment materials and mixed-gender
 interview panels, to attract a more diverse staff pool. In line with the research Code of Practice,
 staff with responsibility for recruitment and research management undertake mandatory
 unconscious bias training. Across all academic staff in NLS, 67% identify as women and 6%
 identify as black, Asian or minority ethnic. Representation of staff with a declared disability is
 13.7%. The professoriate comprises 4.2 FTE male professors and 3 FTE female professors, a
 ratio which exceeds the University’s Athena SWAN KPI target of a 35% female professoriate by
 2022. The Executive Dean of the School is female, and four females and two males sit on the
 School’s Senior Management Team. Of the three members of staff promoted to chair in the current
 cycle one is male, two are female; and of the six promoted to associate professor one is male and
 five are female. NLS also monitors PGR equality and diversity through data produced by the
 Doctoral School; currently 49% of the PGR cohort are BAME, with 27% having widening
 participation statements.

 NLS applies a range of policies for flexible working including NTU’s Support for Academic
 Returners scheme which provides individual awards of £5k to help academics re-establish their
 research after returning from caring responsibilities. Core meetings are facilitated to take account
 of the diverse circumstances of staff; for example, NLS follows University policy in avoiding
 meetings in early morning or late afternoon and staff are welcome to join meetings remotely if they
 are unable to be on campus. 12% of staff have flexible working arrangements in place.

 Staff perception of EDI issues is very positive. The 2018 staff survey showed 87% agreement with
 all statements of equality of opportunity and protected characteristics, including “I believe the
 University is committed to equality of opportunity for all of its staff” (82%).



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Workload balance and planning
 All staff with significant responsibility for research are awarded research time as part of their
 workload allocation. Professors are assigned appropriately balanced workloads to enable them to
 meet NTU performance criteria. Non-professorial staff with significant responsibility for research
 have time to enable the writing of high-quality outputs, income generation and external
 engagement. Through an annual bidding process administered by the Research Steering Group,
 applicants are awarded an allowance based on the strength of their proposals, their past record,
 and their research trajectory. NLS has carefully managed the timetables for these staff to ensure
 they have at least one clear day dedicated for research and appropriate time to progress projects
 and meet the targets set. The School ensures that, so far as practicable, teaching profiles are
 closely aligned to research expertise in order to maximise the benefits of research-informed
 teaching.

 NLS’s research-hours-award scheme has been the primary vehicle for facilitating the majority of
 the research achievements and creating the School’s vibrant and inclusive research environment.
 Through this scheme, the School has been able to grow its pool of researchers, which includes
 those who have come into research from legal practice (Berry, Ferris, Hall, Henham, Lewis,
 Walters, Wilson). The scheme has served to increase the volume and more importantly, the quality
 of research-focused activities.

 In 2015 the School established a competitive Sabbatical Scheme. Successful applicants are
 supported to focus their efforts exclusively, for a term, on a major research project. Nine members
 of staff have been awarded sabbaticals since 2015/16. This investment has resulted in several
 major research outputs and other accomplishments including Trickett’s Impact Case Study, high
 quality monographs (Adamidis, Chadwick, O’Neill), and substantial articles in peer reviewed
 journals (Lewis, O’Nions).

 Research Community and Culture

 The School has a well-established research seminar series, which provides a supportive and
 collegial atmosphere in which staff and PGR students can ‘test-run’ ideas for articles or conference
 papers, at whatever stage of maturity. All academic staff, whatever their focus, are encouraged to
 attend, facilitating a cross-fertilisation between research, legal practice and scholarship and
 providing a broad base for feedback. Wide participation also ensures that the curriculum is
 underpinned by research-informed teaching and that wisdom from legal practice is both learned
 and transmitted. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the seminar series was reconfigured on a virtual
 platform which bolstered participation levels among staff and PGR students.

 NLS further supports staff through the introduction of an empathic and supportive research
 mentoring scheme. Mentors are assigned to all staff with significant responsibility for research. All
 mentors, who are themselves experienced researchers, meet with their mentees on four formal
 occasions throughout the year, and guidelines are provided as to the type of support that should
 be provided (e.g. targeting publishers, reading drafts, dissemination, publication strategy, funding
 applications and developing impact and visibility). Further informal mentoring takes place through
 various events organised by the Research Centres.

 The School holds an annual Research Away Day to which all staff and PGR students are invited.
 Workshops giving practical advice on writing, research strategy, impact and funding generation
 are provided. Visiting speakers have given inspirational presentations; e.g. Professor Pat Leighton
 (University of South Wales) on effective dissemination in 2018 and Dr Suren Gomtsian (University
 of Leeds) on publishing in US law journals in 2019.

 Early Career Researchers and the Postgraduate Research Student Community
 NLS has a strong base of ambitious ECRs, many of whom have completed (or are in the process
 of completing) their doctoral studies. Some already have internationally excellent outputs and have
 produced monographs with leading publishers (Chadwick, Sahin). Many have had outputs

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 accepted by world-leading journals (Kemp, Thornton). In addition to the support mechanisms
 outlined above, further support is provided by the Postgraduate Researcher Community (PGRC)
 (formerly Early Career Researchers’ Forum), a ‘ground-up’ initiative suggested by the PGR
 community. Since 2017, the PGRC has met six times during each academic year. Facilitated by
 an associate professor (Trickett), both early-career staff and PGR students are encouraged to
 share experiences and wisdom of the first steps in an academic career. Topics of sessions, led by
 invited speakers, have included: ‘What to expect from conferences, target audiences, how to
 present and network’; ‘Challenges that the PhD students face’; ‘Mindfulness, wellbeing and mental
 health (how to stay on the top of the research)’;and ‘Development of public speaking skills’. This
 support mechanism exists alongside the University’s Postgraduate Certificate in Academic
 Practice (accredited by the HEA) which is compulsory for all new ECR staff.

 NLS has grown its PGR community significantly in recent years, from 12 in 2008, 25 in 2014, to
 40 at the time of reporting. Its completions rate has more than doubled: from 11 in 2014 to 28 at
 the date of submission.

                           PhD and Professional Doctorate completions

               2013/14 2014/15       2015/16     2016/17     2017/18    2018/19      2019/20

     PhDs          4          3           1          3           4           4           5

     Prof                                 1                                  2           1
     Docs
     Total         4          3           2          3           4           6           6



 PGR students are an integral part of the School research community and the Research Centres
 of which they are members. The School ring-fences £3k of QR funds for PGR research
 development activity (e.g. attendance at conferences, specialised training) and also hosts an
 annual academic poster competition.

 Currently, 28 members of staff are involved in PGR supervision, all of whom have undergone
 University training, with mandatory refresher courses every three years. At least two supervisors
 are allocated to each project; second or third supervisors may be based in other Schools where a
 cross-disciplinary perspective might enhance the research. Early career researchers with less
 experience are often appointed as second or third supervisors to gain supervision experience from
 a more established Directors of Studies. Candidates meet with their supervision teams on at least
 a monthly basis. All meetings are minuted and are subject to scrutiny by the School Research
 Degrees Committee.

 NLS staff are encouraged to support PGR development through collaborative research ventures
 such as co-authored research outputs (e.g., Denoncourt and Szarkiszjan, 2019; Parry and Gwaza,
 2020) and by providing opportunities for PGR students to contribute to the three in-house journals
 and staff-edited collections. The PGR experience has been enhanced significantly in recent years
 with the introduction of subject-specific research training in empirical legal methods and the
 development of a poster presentation workshop. Students have been supported in the launch of
 the PGRC and in the establishment of monthly writing retreats. The Research Centres also act as
 hubs for the PGR community. The majority attend research seminars regularly and participate in
 the annual School Research Away Day. In the current academic job market, it is essential that
 applicants can demonstrate they have teaching and/or academic work experience. Consequently,
 many PGR students take up posts as hourly paid lecturers or research assistants and we seek to
 maximise such opportunities to provide career development. These opportunities have had direct
 benefit to the School’s staffing base; eight colleagues (Daniele, Ferris, McTigue, Moffatt, Omer,
 Patel, Pegg, Strecker) have completed their doctorates in the Law School, with others being in the
 final stages.

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 NLS has three visiting and sixteen honorary professors and two senior fellows who support
 research and scholarship across the School, incorporating providing support and advice to ECRs,
 reading drafts, and delivering guest seminars. The School’s honorary professors are drawn from
 the legal profession and, in line with the School’s overall mission to seek mutuality of interest
 between research and practice, provide invaluable advice and support to staff where research and
 scholarship directly engages or impacts upon legal practice. For example, Honorary Professor
 Paul Bowden, Head of Global Business and Human Rights at Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, is
 currently collaborating with Zhao on project exploring modern slavery in China.

 For over four decades the School has been the home of the Nottingham Law Journal (NottLJ)
 (founded as the Trent Law Journal in 1977), a peer reviewed general law journal with an
 international circulation. The NottLJ is included on the indicative holding list of the Library Standard
 published by the Society of Legal Scholars. It publishes the work of notable external scholars and
 established NTU researchers, but also has provided an outlet for ECRs, PhD, LLM and LLB
 students (e.g., the 2018 issue published papers by both a current PhD student and a current LLB
 student).

 Research Integrity
 Matters relating to research integrity, including research ethics, are overseen centrally and
 managed locally. The University Research Committee, chaired by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor –
 Research and Enterprise, and reporting to Academic Board, is responsible for the development
 and monitoring of research integrity policies and procedures. The University Research Integrity
 Committee closely supports it in this regard. In accordance with the Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity, the University produces a publicly available annual statement on research
 integrity, which is presented to Academic Board. A Code of Practice for Research, covering all
 researchers at NTU, Research Ethics Policy and Procedure and Responsible Metrics Statement
 are among the arrangements in place which are governed at institutional level. Training resources
 are available to all staff and students in the form of online modules which cover different aspects
 of research integrity. This central resource complements training arrangements at local level,
 which are designed to meet the needs of specific committees. Staff with significant responsibility
 for research provide annual positive confirmation of their commitment to uphold the standards in
 the Code of Practice for Research.

 Robust systems are in place to ensure research projects requiring ethical enquiry are fully
 scrutinised. The scrutiny of staff and PGR projects is undertaken by a committee supported by
 experienced researchers from a number of NTU’s Schools. Undergraduate and Postgraduate
 Taught student research is also subject to ethical review, where needed, and this is undertaken
 by a committee operating at School-level.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 The Unit has been successful in attracting external research funding from a range of sources,
 including the AHRC Midlands4Cities DTP, ESRC, Nuffield Foundation, British Academy, British
 Arts Council and US Department of State as well as a range of government bodies, regulators,
 charities, companies and professional societies. A total research income of £578k during this
 assessment period represents a more-than seven-fold increase on the £81k achieved for
 REF2014.

 This success can be attributed in part to a sustained effort in the School to encourage and facilitate
 high quality grant applications through the provision of staff development, mentoring and the
 central support provided by professional services. The submission of grant applications now forms
 a central component of annual appraisals and Individual Research Plans. The School has
 introduced a new ‘Grants Champion’, an experienced professor with a substantial track-record
 (Zhao). Working with the ADR, he has co-ordinated a process whereby all proposals for external

                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funding are peer reviewed, ensuring that the project under consideration fits with the strategic
 research objectives of the School and University. In addition, the mentoring process ensures that
 effective support is offered to potential applicants so that they can develop their proposals over a
 period of time.

 The School has the benefit of dedicated support for grant capture in the form of the University’s
 Research Development Team who provide expertise on the writing, pitching and tailoring of bids
 supported by the research information system Worktribe.

 Infrastructure and Facilities

 The Unit provides dedicated administrative support for research in the form of a member of
 administrative staff (0.5 FTE). In addition, all staff have access to a subject-specific research
 librarian, and state-of-the-art library and information services. They also have access to a range
 of academic software as well as the full gamut of legal and social science databases such as
 Westlaw, Lawtel, Hein-on-line and LexisNexis, and to numerous other databases across a wide
 spectrum of disciplines.

 The School supports membership of learned societies, with staff subscriptions to SLS, SLSA, the
 Law Society and other organisations covered by School funds. The library provides training and
 support to staff and PGR students to enable them to access these resources effectively. PGR
 students have access to a large pool of workstations and storage space in the specialist
 accommodation located within the NTU Doctoral School; this space provides congenial facilities
 for doctoral students to build an élan, work, mingle, talk about their projects and share ideas. NLS
 estate also includes two dedicated replica courtrooms and four mooting rooms which have been
 used to provide first-class venues for the Research Centres’ conferences and visiting speakers.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 NLS’s recognition of the importance of research collaboration is articulated in the second of its
 aims: ‘to bolster the significance, reach and impact of its engagement with end-users and external
 stakeholders’. The School has worked intensively to realise this aim. Over the course of the last
 five years, the reach of its engagement activities has been worldwide.

 Contribution to the Research Base

 Academic collaborations have raised the School’s profile and reputation, and supported the
 significance and reach of its impact in tackling the global challenges of the modern world. Of the
 outputs created in the current cycle, 30 were co-authored with academics from other institutions.
 Members of the Unit have contributed to their research fields not only by academic journal outputs
 but by the range of activities such as keynote speeches, conference participation, visiting
 scholarships/fellowships, acting as reviewers for UK and international funding bodies, and
 contributing to editorial and peer review activities of academic journals.

 NLS symposia, conferences and workshops have brought together UK and international
 researchers. Since 2015, the CRJ has hosted an annual conference on Human Rights, Law and
 Religion which has attracted international speakers ranging from professors to PhD students.
 Papers by academics, practitioners and social commentators from its 2015 conference,
 Perspectives on the Islamic Veil, formed the basis of a special edition of the Nottingham Law
 Journal in 2016. Speakers/authors included journalist Yasmin Alibhai-Brown, Felicity Gerry QC
 and Samantha Knights QC. Likewise, the CLE’s biennial international conferences have attracted
 participants from across the globe, e.g. the 2017 conference on the theme of Legal Education,
 Legal Practice and Technology welcomed delegates from Africa, the Asia-Pacific region and North
 America. Papers from this conference were also featured in a 2018 special edition of the
 Nottingham Law Journal. In 2019 the CLE hosted an international conference on Vulnerability and
 the Organisation of Academic Labour in collaboration with Emory University featuring a keynote
 address by Professor Martha Fineman (Emory, USA). The CBIL has hosted four recent

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 conferences in collaboration with professional organisations and firms. These have included an
 annual Conference of the Partnership, LLP and LLC Law Academic Forum, and the Secured
 Transactions Reform Conference in 2019 (co-hosted with Norton Rose Fulbright LLP and
 University College London). These events have all continued in on-line format during the COVID-
 19 pandemic in 2020 (notably: the CLE Conference, 19-20 June; the CBIL Partnership/LLP/LLC
 Conference, 17 September; and the CRJ Flashpoints Conference, 14 December).

 The Unit encourages and supports staff to travel to inform, disseminate and collaborate on their
 research. During this REF period, staff presented over 100 papers at overseas conferences in five
 continents, and staff have visited approximately 100 overseas institutions. Aiming to enrich
 international perspectives, NLS operates a visiting scholars programme and has hosted several
 international scholars during the period:

       Dr Liz Curran (Australian National University) visited NLS in 2016, 2018 and 2020,
        delivering a number of papers and assisting in staff development and conference activities;
       Josh Krook (University of Adelaide), visited the CLE in 2017;
       Tim Bryan (York University, Ontario) visited the CRJ in 2017.

 NLS devotes substantial time to strengthening and renewing the discipline through its advisory,
 editorial, and peer-review activities. Staff have co-edited 12 collections, have peer reviewed
 approximately 100 journal articles for over 40 journals including the Modern Law Review, Legal
 Studies, Journal of Law & Society, Hong Kong Law Journal, Oxford Journal of Legal Studies and
 The Cambridge Law Journal. Eleven members of staff currently hold editorial roles with, or sit on
 the advisory boards of, leading international journals. Examples include:

       Doak was Editor of the International Journal of Evidence and Proof (2015-2020);
       Maharg was co-editor of the European Journal of Law and Technology (2014-2018);
       Pegg is Managing Editor of Law, Crime & History (2018-date);
       Henham is series co-editor for the International and Comparative Criminal Justice Series
        published by Routledge.

 Staff have acted as reviewers for a number of national and international funding bodies including
 the ESRC; Irish Research Council; Dutch Research Council; Research Grants Council of Hong
 Kong; Flanders Research Foundation and the British Academy.

 Contributions to the Economy and Society

 As set out under Priority 2 in Section 1 (above), NLS has well-developed programmes of research
 activity that deliver significant societal benefit across a variety of end-users, including national and
 international policymakers, government bodies, regulatory bodies and third sector groups. The
 School has completed 14 commissioned reports for public, private and charitable bodies. Staff
 have made significant contributions to law and policy creation. Berry was invited to give oral and
 written evidence to the Parliamentary Select Committee on Regulatory Reform on the
 Government's draft Legislative Reform Order (Private Fund Limited Partnerships) (2017). She was
 subsequently consulted by the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy on a
 number of occasions to provide advice on proposed changes to the legislation, and has been
 consulted by HM Treasury and HMRC on partnership taxation. Trickett gave oral evidence on
 tackling hate crime to the Home Affairs Committee (2018) and was also invited to give oral
 evidence to the Women and Equalities Committee’s Antisemitism Inquiry (2018). Further to this,
 the Government has committed to requiring all police forces across England and Wales to record
 violent and sexual offences against women, as well as stalking and harassment, as hate crimes
 where such offences have been motivated by misogyny. McTigue gave written evidence to the
 House of Lords Select Committee on The Equality Act 2010: the impact on disabled people was
 cited in the Final Report. Moffatt was invited to give expert evidence to EU regulators at the
 European Securities and Markets Authority in Paris, as part of a review of the rules on asset
 segregation and custody services (2016). Other notable examples of high-level policy engagement

                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 include: Doak’s invitation to attend a closed event hosted by the South Australian Law Reform
 Institute on vulnerable people in the criminal justice system (2020) and Zhao’s invitation to discuss
 topical issues on ‘Law and Finance in China’ with judges in Shanghai Financial Court, and legal
 challenges of eliminating zombie companies through Insolvency Law in China with judges in the
 High People’s Court of Zhejiang Province (2019).

 Drawing on its ethos of symbiosis between research and practice, NLS has influenced
 communities of practice through a diverse range of end-user engagement. In 2019, the practice-
 facing Centre for Advocacy hosted its Third International Advocacy Conference. The Conference
 was hosted in conjunction with The Advocate’s Gateway, a non-profit organisation which provides
 aid and support to those practising in criminal and civil proceedings involving vulnerable
 witnesses. The conference featured a high calibre range of speakers from across the globe,
 including lawyers, judges, intermediaries and others supporting vulnerable witnesses, and was
 delighted to welcome the Chairman of the Law Commission, Lord Justice Green, as keynote
 speaker.

 The CLE collaborates extensively with professional and regulatory bodies, for example the Bar
 Standards Board and the Solicitors Regulation Authority, supporting reviews and fundamental
 changes to legal education for both students and practitioners. The Centre’s contribution to the
 Legal Education and Training Review 2013 resulted in a number of its recommendations being
 implemented by domestic legal regulators and forms the basis of one of the Unit’s impact case
 studies. In addition, the Centre has strong international links, undertaking projects that have had
 a direct impact on legal education or its regulation for students, educators and practitioners in
 more than twenty countries worldwide. For example, recommendations from Centre members
 have contributed to the development of a fourth vocational law school in Guyana, and
 recommendations for the Law Society of Ireland that have followed through into a recent statutory
 review in that country.

 Other key examples of drawing on research to inform practice include:

       Denoncourt has advised the Canadian Business Development Bank, specialist IP
        lender Qantius, the Norwegian Industrial Property Office and the American Bar
        Association. Her contribution to the International Accounting Standards Board 38:
        Intangibles Review was cited in the UK Financial Reporting Council’s discussion paper on
        Business Reporting of Intangibles: Realistic proposals (February 2019).
       Doak co-hosted a collaborative symposium in 2019 (with the Restorative Justice Council,
        University of Nottingham and University of Essex), Restorative Justice: Academic and
        Practitioner Perspectives.
       Ireton was a member of the JUSTICE working party on the reform of institutional responses
        to deaths or other serious incidents where a “systemic pattern of failure” is evident. The
        report and recommendations, When Things Go Wrong, was published in August 2020.
       Moffatt is a member of the Advisory Group of the City of London Law Society’s Financial
        Law Committee on the Secured Transactions Code and has co-organised two conferences
        (Norton Rose Fulbright and UCL) raising awareness of the Code with the legal profession
        with the ultimate aim of effecting legislative change.
       Ong has collaborated with the Korea Maritime Institute on the 'Beyond the Joint
        Development Agreement' research project, bringing together a team of experts to
        undertake case studies of offshore Joint Development Agreements from around the world
        (since 2017).
       Patel worked with the legal team representing the athlete Caster Semenaya and Athletics
        South Africa in preparing the case for her hearing at the Court of Arbitration for Sport
        (2019). In 2020 she was invited, and duly contributed, to a private seminar on sport and
        recreation policy for the House of Lords Select Committee on a National Plan for Sport and
        Recreation.
       Hall advised the Church of England Special Advisory Group on the civil and criminal legal
        implications of Deliverance Ministry/exorcism and church policy has been modified on the
        basis of this advice (2016).

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 In addition to collaboration with academics, policymakers and communities of practice, colleagues
 have also engaged with the public on a variety of platforms to inform and shape opinion at grass-
 roots level. These projects have been supported by funds from the Strategic Research Fund. In
 2017, the CRJ hosted a public Symposium on the Syrian Conflict in collaboration with the
 University of Nottingham’s International Law and Security Centre; delegates included refugees
 from the conflict. The following year the Centre also hosted a public Symposium on Gender
 Equality and the UN Sustainable Development Goals and a Workshop for faith groups on Exorcism
 and the Law in collaboration with colleagues at the Universities of Leicester and Manchester.

 Another example of ‘ground-up’ engagement include Hall and Lewis’s work on human rights and
 toleration with schools, in particular their development of role-playing educational board game
 based on their research - Brave New World - that has been played in schools internationally
 (England, Wales, Spain, Belgium and Chile). Funding (c. £33K) to commercialise the board game
 was provided by the ASPECT Network in 2020.

 The public reach of NLS research is further underlined by staff contributions to national and
 international media which include: The Guardian, The Sunday Times, The Times, The Daily
 Telegraph, The Evening Standard, The Mail, The Independent, The Bangkok Post, Gulf Today,
 The Economist, The Sun, BBC1, BBC Radio (1, 4, 5 and Nottingham), and Netflix Documentaries.
 Since 2014, the work of NLS staff has been cited in 206 pieces in the popular national and
 international press, 166 pieces in the legal/trade press. Staff have authored 49 articles for The
 Conversation, with a readership in excess of 1 million.

 NLS research staff also provide expertise to inform the work of the Legal Advice Centre, a full-
 regulated law firm within NLS which provides advice, assistance and representation on a not for
 profit basis to individuals and organisations that cannot access legal aid or afford legal
 representation across a large range of service areas, providing a vital access to justice to the
 community (e.g. Denoncourt has provided extensive advice on intellectual property/patenting to
 designers and artists). Over the past six years, the Centre has dealt with over 2000 cases,
 provided over 2,500 opportunities to students, and its clients have been awarded over £5 million
 as a result of its legal advice and representation. The Centre is a multi-award-winning law firm and
 was recently crowned ABS of the Year 2020 at the Modern Law Awards for its innovation and
 community involvement.




                                                                                             Page 14
