Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Royal Holloway, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 04 Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 1   Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context and structure

 The Department of Psychology (established 1985) is a thriving research-led unit within the School
 of Life Sciences and the Environment (established 2019). Our REF2014 submission
 demonstrated the excellence of our research: 51% of research outputs and 73% of our impact
 were judged to be world-leading. Since then, we have further enhanced our research quality and
 reputation across existing strengths in cognitive psychology and cognitive neuroscience, but also
 in new areas such as social-affective neuroscience. We have made significant investments in
 staffing and infrastructure, developed and refined support mechanisms to enable high-quality
 research and impact, and enhanced structures for supporting career progression and
 development. Research grants of £10m have been awarded to the Department by national and
 international funding bodies, reflecting a 25% success rate, and our RCI has increased by 20%
 relative to REF2014. During this period, staff have published over 600 peer-reviewed outputs.
 Our PhD cohort has increased by 45% relative to REF2014. We have led or played a key role in
 large cross-disciplinary and inter-disciplinary projects, including the StoryFutures ‘creative cluster’
 (AHRC), Magna Carta Doctoral Centre (Leverhulme Trust) and Body & Image in Arts & Science
 (NOMIS Foundation). Our staff have been recognized nationally and internationally with
 prestigious awards and grants such as the ESRC Celebrating Impact Prize, EPS Mid-career
 award, EPS Prize lecture, ERC Consolidator Grant and Leverhulme Trust Major Research
 Leadership Award.
 Since 2014, our research has been structured across four research groups:
     •   Language, Memory & Attention investigates language, memory and attention across
         the lifespan, comprising eight members.
     •   Social & Affective Processes investigates social and affective processes, comprising
         eight members.
     •   Perception, Action & Decision Making investigates sensation, perception, decision
         processes and motor behaviour, comprising twelve members.
     •   Health & Well-Being investigates mental health and well-being, comprising four
         members (along with seven additional members whose research is closely aligned with
         health professionals, and who are returned to UoA3).

 Our research is supported by state-of-the-art facilities including dedicated laboratories for PIs with
 major projects, and many shared facilities accessible to all researchers including PGR and
 UG/PGT student projects. Cutting across the four research groups is the Combined University
 Brain Imaging Centre (CUBIC) in partnership with the Universities of Brunel, Roehampton, and
 Surrey, which houses our own research-dedicated 3T fMRI scanner. CUBIC has seen substantial
 investment in the period in both personnel and infrastructure.
 Our research is led by Directors of Research for Strategy (Tsakiris) and Operations (Walker), who
 sit on the Department’s executive group and chair the Research Committee. This comprises the
 Director of Impact (Ricketts), the Research Group Convenors (Lau, Social & Affective Processes

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 ; Hodgetts, Perception, Action & Decision Making ; Krishnan, Language, Memory & Attention;
 Murphy, Health & Well-Being) and the PGR Leads (Watling, Ramnani). The Directors of
 Research have a close relationship with the School Director of Research, the Research and
 Innovation (R&I) Department, and the Deputy Principal (Academic). This structure ensures that
 our Departmental research strategy is aligned with School and College strategies, and that we
 make full use of School- and institution-level support mechanisms.

 1.2 Research strategy and objectives 2014-20
 Our aim in the period has been to advance our position as one of the leading Psychology
 Departments in the UK and to grow our international reputation.

 We set, and met, the following objectives:
    •   Restructure our research groups into emerging themes rather than methodologies;
    •   Develop new support mechanisms for the vitality, sustainability and reproducibility of our
        research and its impact;
    •   Strengthen our research quality by investing in existing areas of research excellence (e.g.
        cognitive psychology and neuroscience) and develop new areas of excellence (e.g. social
        neuroscience) through strategic appointments;
    •   Promote collaborative and cross- and inter-disciplinary partnerships with cognate
        disciplines;
    •   Achieve these objectives in a collegial, diverse and inclusive environment that supports
        staff across all levels in pursuing their research aspirations.

 Our research was previously organised in three groups: Adult & Child Cognition, Brain &
 Behaviour, and Clinical, Health & Social. These were determined primarily by the dominant
 methodologies used within each group (e.g. cognitive and experimental psychology methods for
 Adult & Child Cognition, neuroimaging and brain stimulation for Brain & Behaviour). In 2015,
 following a Departmental consultation, the Research Committee reorganised our research into
 themes, enabling us to bring together researchers with common interests but with expertise in
 diverse research methods. The resulting four groups (e.g. Language, Memory & Attention ;
 Social & Affective Processes ; Perception, Action & Decision Making; Health & Well-Being)
 comprise researchers probing similar questions across different levels of analysis and using
 different methods; for example, Social and Affective Processes comprises social psychologists
 studying attitudes and behaviour, social neuroscientists studying brain processes, and affective
 scientists studying physiological responses. This new research structure alongside our decision
 to promote dual supervision for PGR students has led to several new collaborations within and
 across research groups. To illustrate, 15% of our staff have established new internal
 collaborations through the research groups that have allowed them to use neuroscientific
 methods for the first time.
 Our Department aligned recruitment of 16 new teaching and research staff members (seven new
 posts) with the strategic aim to consolidate existing strengths in cognitive psychology and
 cognitive neuroscience and to develop new expertise in social, affective and developmental
 neuroscience. Several high-profile research grants reflect our focus in new areas such as social
 neuroscience (ERC Consolidator Grant to Tsakiris; Leverhulme Trust Major Research Leadership
 Award to McGettigan, now at UCL), and affective science (MRC grant to Brewer), while existing

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 clusters of excellence such as Language and Reading received almost £2.5m in research funding.
 We also made strategic investments into two new permanent research support posts. A full-time
 MRI Research Fellow post was created in 2016, with the aim of developing new MRI methods
 for existing users and supporting colleagues without MRI experience (including PGRs) to develop
 neuroimaging research. This post acts as a catalyst for new collaborations within and across
 research groups. We also introduced a Research and Development Coordinator to support our
 research and impact capabilities. This post strengthens synergies between student and staff
 research and develops the impacts of our research. In 2015, we established a new research
 support mechanism, the Research Initiative Fund that allocates pump-priming funding with a
 specific focus on colleagues without external RCI (often ECRs). Lastly, we have invested
 substantially into new research facilities, start-up packages, and a new pump-priming scheme.
 These mechanisms and investments are described in Sections 2 and 3.

 Our strategic emphasis and investment into new collaborations has supported development of
 several new strands of interdisciplinary research. In 2014, Royal Holloway launched the Magna
 Carta Doctoral Centre (Leverhulme Trust, 2014-17) to examine issues around personal freedom
 in the digital age. This has produced new synergies for collaborative PGR projects (six to 2020)
 between Psychology and the Departments of Sociology & Law, Biological Science, Media Arts,
 and Computer Science. In 2016, Tsakiris initiated the 4-year Body & Image in Arts and Science
 project, combining neuroscience, psychology and the Arts and Humanities to study the
 performative and political power of images. Since 2018, Dalton has been a co-I in ‘StoryFutures’,
 a major (£6.9m) multidisciplinary AHRC Creative Industries Cluster. Dalton leads a strand that
 investigates audience engagement with Virtual and Augmented Reality, with collaborators in
 Electronic Engineering and Media Arts. Deep partnerships with other disciplines in the College
 have enabled us for the first time to return some of our staff members with other UoAs (e.g.
 Memon to UoA18, and Pincus to UoA3). Finally, we have focused our internal PhD studentships
 on cross-and inter-disciplinary research. Consequently, 40% of our PGRs conduct cross- or inter-
 disciplinary research.

 The vitality of our research environment derives not just from structures and investment, but also
 from our values. We have always considered it essential to support the research potential of all
 colleagues in a rich research culture that is highly inclusive and collaborative, operating with
 transparency and a strong sense of shared endeavour. Ours was one of the first three Psychology
 Departments to hold Silver Athena SWAN status (2012, renewed in 2016). Since 2014, we have
 taken substantial actions to address equality and diversity. We have also applied these values to
 our research by committing to the Open Science agenda for transparent and reproducible
 research.

 1.3 Strategy and approaches for enabling impact

 The Department of Psychology has a long-standing tradition of generating real-world impact in
 the areas of health and quality of life, the justice system, and human factors, as demonstrated
 our successful submission in REF2014 for impact (73.3% 4*, 26.7* 3*). Since 2014, we have
 sought to embed impact development much more deeply across all of the research in the
 Department, through innovation in our structures, policies and incentives. Structurally, this work
 has profited from joined-up working between the Vice-Principal for Research Impact and
 Interdisciplinarity, the School Director of Impact, and our Departmental Director of Impact (DoI;

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Ricketts), with impact activities enhanced by designated research administrative support (R&D
 coordinator). Impact work also benefits from investment into knowledge exchange capacity within
 Research and Innovation and is showcased via the Royal Holloway website. Research impact is
 one of the four major areas in which applications for promotion are assessed in the institution; the
 fact that it is weighted equally to research, teaching and leadership demonstrates its significance.
 Bids to the College and Departmental pump priming schemes are prioritised if they develop
 research impacts. Research impact activities are reflected within our Departmental workload
 scheme.
 Impact has been further accelerated via two key objectives:
 (i) Provide impact-related training and support for staff. Institution- and School-wide meetings
 ensure a clear understanding of impact in research staff, complemented by discipline-specific
 training at Department level targeting key beneficiary groups (e.g., health practitioners, teachers,
 policy makers, industry partners) and areas of impact (e.g., health, education, legal system,
 transport). Individualised support from the DoI enables researchers to embed impact from the
 earliest stages of research planning by identifying non-academic beneficiaries, anticipating
 potential impacts, and designing activities and mechanisms that maximise the impact of findings.
  (ii) Use the research group structure to consolidate and extend our impacts. Impact
 strengths from REF2014 in health and well-being are reflected in REF2021 case studies (Bradley,
 Pincus), and our ongoing impacts relevant to the legal system have progressed during the period
 (recognised by Memon’s ESRC ‘Celebrating Impact’ prize in 2017). New impacts have arisen
 from the Learning, Memory and Attention group, with a case study on literacy included in the
 REF2021 submission (Rastle) and clear future impacts (Ricketts, Krishnan).

 1.4 Open research and reproducibility
 The Department is committed to Open Science and established the ‘Open Science Working
 Group’ (OSWG) in 2017. Members include academics, post-doctoral researchers and PGR
 students. The group is headed by Glover who reports to the Research Committee and supports
 and trains staff to ensure that their research is robust, transparent, accessible and reproducible.
 The OSWG is a member of the UK Reproducibility Network, which aims to facilitate training and
 disseminate best practice via local hubs. The OSWG has hosted a number of external speakers
 on a range of topics including: data sharing, ethics, pre-registration, reproducibility, statistics, and
 journal practices. Since 2014, all research outputs have been made publicly available via the
 Institutional Pure repository. Two further Departmental initiatives were developed to strengthen
 our Open Science practices:

     •   the requirement for pre-registration for all UG and PGT research projects internally, with
         supervisors encouraged to register them externally (implemented in 2018);
     •   the obligation to make all data underpinning published research publicly available, barring
         compelling reasons to restrict availability (relevant to data collected from April 1, 2019)

 1.5 Research ethics and integrity
 Psychology is committed to upholding the highest standards of research integrity and ethics. We
 adhere to the RHUL guidelines on research governance, integrity and ethics and to the British
 Psychological Society’s Code of Ethics and Conduct. Royal Holloway ensures that research is

                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 conducted in accordance with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. Our research is
 reviewed by the RHUL ethics committee. Research ethics and good practice is embedded into
 our PGR training programme with a compulsory session early in their first term. New staff receive
 ethics training through the Advance Staff Development programme.

 1.6 Research and Impact Strategy 2021-2026

 Our aims for research and impact post-REF2021 are to (a) further advance our leadership within
 the psychological sciences and neuroscience; (b) increase our engagement with cognate
 disciplines; and (c) further improve the vitality of our research culture through investments in staff
 and Open Science. Following a formal consultation in 2019, we set the following major objectives:
 (i) Scaling up disciplinary research. We are committed to the advancement of our discipline, to
 nurturing areas of excellence and doing so in a mixed ecology of challenge and investigator-led
 projects. We already have an impressive track record in producing world-leading research and
 impact in the areas of (a) language, literacy and learning (Rastle, Ricketts, Krishnan, Tamminen,
 Lev-Ari; joint RCI 2.5million, 26% of our overall Grant Income) and (b) interoception and
 embodiment (Tsakiris, Brewer, Ferre, Murphy, joint RCI 2.1million, 23% of our overall Grant
 Income). Our vision is to capitalise on critical mass in these areas to scale up research and impact
 through larger-scale more ambitious collaborative grants, nationally and internationally. The
 Department will support them in securing time to develop larger and more integrated research
 units and identify funding opportunities and pathways to academic and societal impact. We will
 also identify and support individuals in other areas that are amenable to larger and ambitious bids
 (e.g. support for Lau’s and Ferre’s UKRI FLF applications).

  (ii) Leadership in interdisciplinarity. The Schools structure at RHUL (established 2019)
 enables the Department to play a leading role in in advancing the cross-disciplinary research
 capacity of psychology. We intend to continue and expand our leading role in advancing the
 cross-disciplinary research capacity of psychology across all Schools and beyond. First, we will
 consolidate existing cross-disciplinary collaborations with law, economics and social sciences and
 play a key role in the study of cognitive, behavioural and societal issues in two of the four main
 Research Catalysts created by RHUL: Transformative Digital Technologies, Security and Society
 and Digital Futures in the Creative and Cultural industries. Second, in 2021 we will inaugurate the
 Centre for the Politics of Feelings (led by Tsakiris), funded by the NOMIS Foundation, and
 spanning psychology, neuroscience, political science and digital humanities. Third, we will
 integrate our expertise in mental health and well-being with leadership in digital technologies (e.g.
 StoryFutures) to develop effective and scalable therapeutic interventions. Our vision is to open
 up to other disciplines, within and beyond the School of Life Sciences & Environment, and act as
 a hub for challenge-led research in human cognition and behaviour and its impacts in different
 contexts, from climate change to digitalisation and from health-related behaviour to political
 behaviour. For this reason, we have introduced a new leadership role (Rastle) for developing
 interdisciplinary and challenge-led research.
  (iii) Investing in and advancing our neuroimaging capabilities. Our neuroimaging capabilities
 are at the core of Departmental research and a research priority for the School. Post-2021, we
 will replace our MRI scanner and establish a new Neuroimaging Centre for Decision-Making &
 Choice. The Centre will capitalise on the expertise and talent of our recent appointments (Furl,
 Lau, Bahrami, Sidarus) to address timely societal and policy questions across disciplines both

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 within our School and beyond. In these challenging times, where there is unprecedented
 uncertainty about finance, politics, climate and health, our research will address important
 questions about the way people take decisions in today’s difficult conditions. This new Centre
 alongside the replacement of the scanner will ensure the sustainability and vitality of the frontiers
 neuroscience research that we have been conducting ever since we became the first UK
 Psychology Department to acquire a research-dedicated MRI scanner.

 These major objectives will be addressed in parallel with our commitment to :
     •   supporting the research potential of all staff, researchers and PGRs through mentoring,
         peer-review and training in new methods, impact and interdisciplinary research;
     •   addressing inequalities; and
     •   further increasing diversity to extend the advances we have made in recent years; and
         strengthening our commitment to Open Science through continuous support, and our
         participation in larger scale collaborations that allow powerful studies, including our
         participation as a founding member of the South East of England Replication in
         Psychology Syndicate (SERPS) with University of Reading (2021).

 Our vision is for the Department to be the catalyst that enables colleagues to drive their research
 in ever more innovative, rigorous, transparent and far-reaching directions. We have the
 leadership, research structures and support mechanisms from the School and the institution to
 sustain and further advance the vital research culture we have built

 2 People
 The Department has grown since 2014 and now has 31.3 FTEs on permanent Teaching and
 Research contracts submitted to UoA4, comprising 11 Professors, two Readers, eight Senior
 Lecturers, and 11 Lecturers. Nearly one-third of staff have been in the Department for over ten
 years (9, all Professor). The majority of our academic staff are Category A research staff (71%);
 others have chosen teaching-focused (18%) or professional practice (11%) contracts (both of
 which are also valued career pathways with clear routes through to Professor). Equality and
 diversity are at the heart of everything we do. Half of our academic staff across all levels are
 women; these include key leadership positions as heads of Department (Rastle, 2015-2019;
 Dalton, 2019-), Impact Lead (Ricketts, 2014-) and PGR Lead (Watling, 2018-). The Equality,
 Diversity and Inclusion lead (Hammett) convenes an equalities group with wide staff
 representation to ensure this is embedded across all Departmental processes.

 2.1 Staffing strategy
 Our vision since 2014 was to enhance the vitality of our research environment by appointing
 researchers with proven disciplinary expertise and the ambition to act as catalysts for projects
 beyond disciplinary boundaries. Our strategy in making new appointments has been to
 consolidate and develop interactions within and between our existing research groups, and to
 foster new research avenues such as social-affective neuroscience, decision-making and
 developmental neuroscience. These new avenues also reflect our strategy to support and
 develop challenge-led research with broad multidisciplinary and societal impact. Each of these
 areas has witnessed substantial growth over the last decade, and jointly they have broadened
 the dialogue between life and social sciences.

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We have appointed 16 new Teaching and Research staff, nine of whom were replacements for
 colleagues who have left for European Institutions (n=2), UK Institutions (n=4) or charities/industry
 (n=3). Our new appointments align with aims to consolidate existing strengths (e.g. Krishnan,
 Tamminen, Ricketts, Lev-Ari in language; Vetter in vision neuroscience; Bjornsdottir in social
 psychology; Ferre in multisensory perception); to develop new expertise in areas that were
 identified as key objectives for the post-2014 period (Lau, Bahrami in social neuroscience;
 Brewer, Murphy in affective science) or areas of international growth that were not represented
 strongly in our research portfolio (Lachlan in cultural evolution and animal behaviour; Furl and
 Sidarus in decision-making; Bathelt in developmental neuroscience; Hodgetts in spatial
 cognition); and to invest in areas with substantial impact potential (Krishnan, Ricketts). These
 appointments helped us to meet our post-REF2014 objectives and prepare us for our post-
 REF2021 objectives.

 2.2 Staff development

 Our staff development strategy facilitates colleagues’ research plans, career development,
 wellbeing and work-life balance; and ensures that clear criteria for recognition and reward
 are available and rigorously applied. The Department provides a portfolio of research support
 to staff at all levels, individualised according to aspirations, career stage and personal
 circumstances.
  (i) Supporting early career researchers. New academic appointments benefit from a variety of
 initiatives that assist them in developing their research potential and establishing their research
 programmes. New staff receive comprehensive inductions at Departmental and institutional
 levels. Early career appointments receive formal support through the College probation and
 training schemes, at the heart of which is one-to-one mentoring from an experienced member of
 staff in the Department who provides advice on teaching, research and administration, and
 assistance throughout the three-year probation period. Research group convenors and DoRs
 also assist in the mentoring process. To set up their laboratories, new members receive (a)
 generous start-up packages comprising lab space, equipment, consumables, and research
 support (with cash contributions totalling £160k); (b) significantly reduced teaching and
 administrative duties (ca. 50%) in the first year of appointment, with these loads increasing
 gradually over the subsequent two years; and (c) generous access to our physical infrastructure
 (e.g. totalling over 950 hours of MRI scanning time). Where necessary, new staff attain HEA
 fellowship by completing the CAPITAL course to develop their teaching practice. The success of
 these support mechanisms for new staff, especially ECRs, is demonstrated by the fact that our
 ECRs secured external research funding totalling over £2.2m between 2014 and 2020.
  (ii) Research planning. In addition to the annual RHUL appraisal process, all staff complete an
 annual ‘Personal Research Plan’, in which they review their publications, grant applications and
 impact activities in relation to previous aims and propose research, publication and funding plans
 for the coming year. Staff receive feedback on their plans from the Directors of Research. Staff
 are assisted in the preparation of grant applications through a rigorous system of internal peer
 review that provides high-quality guidance to applicants, and greatly improves the applications
 that we put forward to UKRI, charity, and industrial funders. Each grant has at least one reviewer
 (two for UKRI). The Director of Impact (Ricketts) provides support on proposals for the
 development of project-specific impact strategies to aid grant writing and maximise impact. The

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 success of these policies is reflected in the 25% success rate in our applications for the current
 REF period.
  (iii) Career development support. RHUL embraces the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers. Research staff at all levels are eligible for the RHUL mentoring
 scheme, which was designed with support from the UK Resource Centre for Women in SET, and
 which pairs individuals with trained mentors from outside the Department. Members of staff are
 also invited to participate in the ‘Advance’ Researcher Development Programme (a series of
 annual workshops devised to enhance skills such as grant writing and funding, research ethics,
 project and impact management, and public engagement), and almost 40% of our staff have done
 so. These workshops are complemented by more focused Department-level training as
 appropriate (e.g., sessions on research impact, open science). Training sessions are led by a
 combination of external facilitators and internal experts. Staff are also encouraged to access
 targeted training opportunities (e.g., Mandala for BAME staff, Springboard, Aurora
 Leadership and Women’s Enhancement Programmes). To support staff outside of formal
 probation or annual review processes, we have introduced a new mentoring scheme headed by
 Zanker whereby staff, including our post-docs, can request mentoring on any aspect of career
 development (e.g. general career progression or specific circumstances such as return from
 parental leave, part time working, support for staff with protected characteristics).
  (iv) Workload and sabbatical leave. Our Research Workload Scheme supports research by
 adjusting the teaching and administrative workloads of academics with funded projects. In 2016,
 we implemented specific changes to our Workload Scheme to acknowledge: (i) career stage and
 personal factors (e.g., return from maternity leave or other career break, exceptional caring
 responsibilities); (ii) substantial impact-related activities, in addition to (iii) research funding. Staff
 are encouraged to use generous sabbatical entitlement (one term in every nine served) to pursue
 periods of sustained research, and two men and eight women did so during the period.
  (v) Exchanges and Secondment. Rickets (DoI) and Cinnirella (Industry Liaison Officer)
 scope opportunities and work with colleagues to foster exchanges and placements as
 described in Section 4. Our colleagues are supported in developing innovative projects that
 often lead to secondments (e.g.Tsakiris at the Warburg Institute).
  (vi) Wellbeing and work-life balance. Our ethos is that our careers should be seen as a
 marathon rather than a sprint, and senior staff members set the tone in the Department by
 modelling healthy attitudes to work. Several staff have used formal flexible working options during
 the period, and the Department has also supported transitions between full-time and part-time
 working as well as extended periods of unpaid personal leave. During the pandemic, the College
 established the Working Well Hub, a huge set of resources to mitigate the mental and physical
 effects of remote working. Staff all have access to 24-hour Confidential Care to support wellbeing;
 and the Hub offers links to free activity and creative classes, nutritional advice, peer support
 groups and many other resources. Staff in the Department are very open about rejections; this
 enhances our resilience and allows us to improve our work. We have introduced a new leadership
 role for wellbeing (Zanker) which led to the new mentoring initiative described above and
 established wellbeing as a more visible Departmental priority.
  (vii) Recognition and Reward. RHUL has put immense effort over the past 10 years into
 developing clear and equitable promotion processes. Every aspect of the process (including

                                                                                                     Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 through five professorial bands) is now conducted in relation to a matrix of clear criteria that
 assess achievements in the domains of research, teaching, impact and engagement, and
 leadership and enhancement. The College requires mandatory equality and diversity training
 for all staff participating in selection panels or promotion processes. Instead of relying on self-
 assessment of readiness for promotion (which can introduce inequalities) the Departmental
 promotions group invites all colleagues to submit CVs every year, offering support and
 recommendations on the basis of the published criteria. RHUL holds several promotion
 workshops each year to assist with applications, and women approaching readiness for
 professorial promotion are invited to a bespoke enhancement programme led by RHUL’s
 Deputy Principal.
 The emphasis on equitable promotion processes at the very highest level of the College has
 helped us to transform the gender balance of our Department. In the period, we have
 achieved equal gender representation at every career stage, and there is no gender pay gap
 at any level in our Department. Six of the seven promotions to Professor in the period have
 been women, all of whom participated in the Deputy Principal’s women’s enhancement
 programme. Our 50% representation of women at professorial level substantially exceeds
 the HESA benchmark for Psychology and the Behavioural Sciences (37% in 18/19).

 2.3 Research (PGR) students: recruitment, training and supervision

 In the REF2021 period, we increased our PGR cohort by 45%. 52 fully-funded students have
 entered our PhD programme and 42.03 PhDs have been awarded (98% completing within 4
 years). Psychology has an active group of 35 PGR students, of whom 73% are female, consistent
 with sector norms (74%). PGRs are fully integrated into our research groups and culture including
 the Open Science working group. Each student is given access to equipment and the laboratory
 space required for their project. The exceptional work that our students have undertaken has
 been recognised by several professional bodies: for example, Lavan received the BPS
 ‘Outstanding Postdoctoral Research’ award, and the Psychonomic Society ‘Best Article Award in
 Psychonomic Bulletin & Review’; and Tappin was awarded a Visiting scholarship to Yale
 University by the Australian Research Council Centre for Excellence in Cognition and its
 Disorders. Since 2014, over 30 of our PGRs have published 90 peer-reviewed articles in top tier
 journals (e.g., Cognition, JEP: General, Psychological Science).
  (i) PGR Strategy post 2014. In 2016, we revised our PGR strategy to align allocation of
 studentships more closely to our strategic research aims. For example, we have promoted
 studentships in particular areas (e.g. 4 additional PhD Studentships in Cognitive & Social
 Neuroscience in 2016), or emphasised particular methods, new collaborations across
 psychological sub-disciplines, and interdisciplinary research. Consequently, 40% of our PGR
 students conduct cross- or inter-disciplinary research. Forty percent of these involve supervisors
 across two of our research groups, and 60% involve supervisors from different disciplines within
 or outside RHUL (e.g., Biological Science, Computer Science, Information Security, Law, Media
 Arts, Management and Electronic Engineering).
 (ii) Recruitment and funding. We have an excellent track-record of securing doctoral funding
 from sources including: ESRC SE DTC, ESRC SeNSS DTC Individual and Collaborative
 studentships (industry partners with Transport Research Laboratory), the AHRC TECHNE
 scheme, Leverhulme Magna Carta studentships, Amy Bueller studentships, RHUL studentships

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 including matched-funding with partners (Eurospine, Macular Society, Waterloo Foundation).
 Psychology successfully joined the BBSRC LiDO DTP through a new collaboration with Biological
 Science and Computer Science in 2019. Our PGR students are provided with an annual budget
 of £550 towards research and travel costs, and are awarded an additional £100 upon publication
 of each peer-reviewed article. MRI-related PhD projects are supported with up to 60 hours of
 scanning time at a 10% subsidised rate. Students may apply for additional funds to support
 development activities (e.g., RHUL Travel Awards) and those working in cognitive
 (neuro)psychology are eligible for up to £1500 through the Elaine Funnell Prize competition to
 fund external laboratory visits, conference travel and training.

 (iii) Skills and career development. We offer a high-level training and skills development
 programme starting with a “Planning for your PhD” session, through to advanced research skills
 (e.g. project management, Gorilla, Qualtrics, eye tracking, R Studio, DataCamp, fMRI analysis)
 and career development (e.g. publishing and reviewing, public speaking, life outside academia),
 and these sessions are also open to our post-doc researchers. The PGR Staff-Student committee
 reviews annually and revises the programme if required. Our PGR students have access to a
 wide range of training through the Doctoral School’s Researcher Development Programme (e.g.
 NVivo, improving work/life balance, presentation skills, ethics, and careers) as well as through
 the SeNSS DTP and partner institutions. Our students attend in-house workshops and take
 advantage of our specialised ‘MRI programme’. All PhD students are members of a research
 group, attending journal clubs and seminars, and they also have their own journal club. Ninety-
 five percent of our PGRs reported in the most recent PRES survey that their research skills
 (including critical analysis and evaluation of findings) develop positively during their training.
 (iv) Support mechanisms and monitoring. The PGR Lead (Watling) has overall responsibility
 for the Postgraduate Research (PhD) programme and also serves on Departmental Executive
 committee and the RHUL Research Degrees Programme Committee. The PGR Lead and Deputy
 Leads (Ramnani, Lev-Ari) are responsible for policy and governance regarding admissions and
 funding for prospective students, supervisory arrangements, academic progression (annual
 reviews, upgrades), the provision of Department-specific training and ensuring students’ pastoral
 welfare. They sit on the Department’s Research Committee and represent us at School-level
 Research Student Oversight Committee. The School holds a minimum of three Student-Staff
 committees per year (previously held at Department level), chaired by a PhD student
 representative, where actions may be taken to enhance the PhD programme and support for
 students.

 We provide strong, complementary and supportive PGR supervision. Students have a lead
 supervisor, a second supervisor (from 2016 onwards) and an advisor for academic and pastoral
 care. Staff members’ supervision skills are developed through formal training (e.g. Departmental
 PGR induction by the PGR Lead, RHUL CAPITAL supervisor training) and support for new
 supervisors (who are encouraged to gain experience as advisors and, if acting as supervisors,
 are paired with experienced second supervisors). Staff are required to attend RHUL training on
 equality and diversity, including sessions within the TaLIG (Teaching and Learning Interest
 Group) series. In the most recent (2019) PRES survey, 95% of respondents indicated that
 supervisors have the necessary skills and subject knowledge to support their research and
 provide appropriate feedback through regular contact.


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (v) Annual reviews and feedback. PGR Leads chair an annual review process involving the
 student, supervisor(s) and advisor to assess how well the supervisory team is working, the
 progress made, the timeline for completion, career development opportunities and any training
 required. The first review is scheduled after approximately nine months of study and the formal
 upgrade meeting after 16-18 months. All our PGRs have successfully upgraded since 2014. A
 second annual review is held after 24 months and a third, or mock viva, at 33-36 months, with
 regular monitoring thereafter up to submission.

 2.4 Equality and diversity

 The vitality of our Department derives from the diversity of our staff and their achievements. Our
 commitment to equality and diversity permeates all of our activities. Our Athena SWAN Silver
 Award was renewed in 2016 and we are still one of only 14 Psychology Departments to hold this
 honour. The award reflects our proactive approach to supporting the career development of staff
 at all levels, to creating an inclusive environment in which all colleagues can thrive, and to
 understanding the many routes in which inequalities can be manifest.
 Our primary focus during this REF period has been on transforming outcomes for women in the
 Department. Our Athena SWAN Silver renewal submission showed that in the five years prior to
 2016, women made up approximately 70% of staff at all levels except Professor, where this
 disparity was reversed. The preparation of that submission allowed us to rigorously interrogate
 women’s experiences in the Department, and to develop strategies to enhance their outcomes.
 These included: enhancing the visibility of women (e.g. the Elaine Funnell Lab has portraits of
 inspiring women psychologists); gathering data on gender splits (in e.g. seminar speakers,
 internal funding, sabbaticals, workloads); scheduling meetings and seminars in core hours;
 utilising flexible working options; proactively assigning ‘high-leadership’ roles to women;
 developing clear criteria for starting salaries and start-up packages; and insisting on rigorous
 application of criteria in promotions processes. The institution has also invested substantially in
 policies that enhance women’s experience and outcomes. We have generous maternity provision
 (26 weeks ordinary leave plus 26 weeks additional leave) and shared parental leave (to mothers,
 fathers, partners, and adopters). The institution offers research sabbaticals following a period of
 maternity, shared paternal, or caring leave. RHUL operates a salary sacrifice scheme to access
 on-campus nursery provision, and private breastfeeding spaces are available across campus.
 Taken together, these measures have helped the Department to achieve equal gender
 representation at all academic levels, and to eliminate the gender pay gap at every level. Staff
 involved in REF2021, and all staff involved in recruitment and promotions processes, have
 undergone mandatory training on unconscious bias, and REF Leads regularly scrutinise equality
 and diversity data. Our processes are fully in line with the RHUL code of practice for REF2021.
 Our aspirations on equality and diversity over the next period are to widen our focus to other
 protected characteristics, and to show leadership nationally for greater equality and diversity in
 our field. To this end, our previous Athena SWAN leadership role has been expanded to Equality,
 Diversity and Inclusivity Lead (Hammett). Our Department played a lead role (Ramnani) in the
 College’s bid to become one of the first eight nationally to receive a Bronze Award in the Race
 Equality Charter scheme (2015) and in the renewal of this award (2019). The comprehensive
 action plan for the award is providing us with the data and senior management support needed
 to interrogate the representation, outcomes and experience of BAME colleagues and students,

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 and to develop specific strategies for change. Our data indicate that access to PGR study is a
 major barrier for greater BAME representation in our field; thus, we have developed the Sarah
 Parker Remond studentship specifically for Black students. We believe that visual symbols are
 important in promoting inclusivity; thus, many colleagues now wear rainbow lanyards to support
 LGBT+ students and colleagues, and since 2015 we have decorated the Department with
 rainbows during Pride month. In 2018, we introduced a “get to know your Department” session
 for first year undergraduates in which staff with diverse backgrounds share their experiences of
 academia. The Department is proactively engaged in championing these initiatives, e.g. by
 supporting empirical research on the impact of our lanyard intervention and the experiences of
 widening participation and BAME students, the commissioning of gender neutral toilets and the
 provision of free sanitary products.
 The Department has shown leadership nationally through a variety of equality and diversity
 initiatives. Ramnani led the development of the Athena SWAN Psychology National Forum
 (ASPON) and hosted its inaugural conference (2015). Likewise, he led the creation of the Women
 in Science Database (WISDATABASE), a collaborative initiative between our Department, the
 British Psychological Society, and British Neuroscience Associations, launched in 2018 to
 enhance the visibility of women scientists in the UK. Members of the Department also promote
 equality and diversity nationally and internationally through service in learned societies; for
 example, Ramnani led the EDI policy of the British Neuroscience Association with respect to the
 representation of women in society meetings, and he is on the evaluation panel of the BNA
 scholars programme designed to help underrepresented groups to thrive in neuroscience.

 3 Income, infrastructure and facilities
 The Department has outstanding research facilities and infrastructure, and we receive high-
 quality support from the Departmental Research Committee and College’s Research and
 Innovation. R&I develop and disseminate policies on research governance, research integrity and
 good conduct, ethics and data management, as well as mechanisms for outputs and data to be
 openly accessible. Psychology staff are supported by a designated team who help identify funding
 opportunities, develop costings for funding applications, draw up contracts and agreements
 including Intellectual Property, and administer post-award grant management.

 3.1 Research income and funding
 The total amount of funding awarded for this REF period is approximately £10m (awards by
 gender: F- 60%, M– 40%), and our RCI has increased by 20% compared to REF2014. Our
 research funding strategy was threefold. Firstly, to support colleagues through annual individual
 research planning meetings and internal peer-review; consequently, our success rate across all
 funders stands at 25%. Secondly, to diversify our funding streams through interdisciplinary and
 large scale projects. To that end, our awards reflect a portfolio from UK Research Councils
 (ESRC, BBSRC, MRC), British Academy and European Research Council, along with funding
 from charities (e.g. Leverhulme Trust, Nuffield Foundation) and Industry (Transport Research
 Laboratory, Shell UK, QinetiQ). Major new awards obtained during the census period include
 substantial funding from the European Research Council (Tsakiris £1.7m), Leverhulme Trust
 (McGettigan £961k), ESRC (Rastle £530k), BBSRC (Ramnani £422k, Lachlan £220k), and AHRC
 for StoryFutures (Dalton £428k, as part of the £6.9m StoryFutures project). Our ECRs have been


                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 successful in obtaining major grants (e.g. Brewer £469k from the MRC and Sidarus £292k from
 the ESRC). Thirdly, in 2015, we established a new research support mechanism, with a specific
 focus on colleagues without external RCI (often ECRs). The new Department Research Initiative
 Fund (RIF) allocates pump-priming funding quarterly, and supports small equipment bids,
 conference travel and publication costs. The total amount awarded since 2015 exceeds £85k,
 providing an average of £18k p.a. of research funding for ~76 proposals, supporting 36 members
 of staff. The RIF enables the continuation of research in the absence of external funding and has
 acted as a catalyst for new grant applications and impact activities. It is used alongside the RHUL
 Research Strategy Fund to seed-fund initiatives.

 3.2 Operational Infrastructure and Facilities
 Psychology has invested substantially in new laboratories and infrastructure to sustain and
 enhance our ability to conduct world-leading research. Our facilities permit research in cognitive,
 experimental, social and developmental psychology, sleep, psychophysiology, neuroimaging
 (MRI, EEG), brain stimulation (TMS, MRI-compatible tDCS) and Virtual Reality. Since 2014, we
 have made significant capital investments (totalling ~£455k) on seven new laboratories:
     •   The Elaine Funnell Neuroscience Lab opened in 2015 providing a large shared lab with
         soundproof testing booths, and several workstations equipped for cognitive and
         psychophysical studies, including a ‘clone’ workstation for piloting MRI experiments and
         MRI data processing.
     •   A dedicated Sleep Lab opened in 2015, with two bedrooms and a control room, with
         polysomnography equipment for monitoring neural activity during sleep. Research was
         supported by an ESRC grant to Tamminen and Rastle.
     •   Three new shared Eye-tracking labs were built to house eye-tracking equipment
         including remote MRI compatible and portable eye trackers.
     •   A state-of-the art EEG lab comprises a 64-channel system with active external electrodes
         and a wireless 32-channel system, allowing hyper-scanning but also recording during
         neurostimulation and integration with Virtual Reality.
     •   Investing in the research potential of Ferre, an ECR specialising in vestibular cortical
         processing, multisensory integration and gravity, we developed the Vestibular
         Multisensory Embodiment (VeME) Lab, housing: MRI-compatible Galvanic Vestibular
         Stimulators, devices for tactile, proprioceptive and pain stimulation, a 3D inversion table,
         and VR head mounted displays funded by the European Low Gravity Research
         Association.
     •   A new Social Psychophysiology Lab, led by Tsakiris (ERC grant) with the participation
         of Bahrami, allows simultaneous peripheral physiology recordings from multiple
         participants while they perform joint tasks.
     •   A strategic investment was made (2019) for a new shared Virtual-Reality (VR) facility
         building on our existing expertise in vision, neuroscience and eye-tracking and enabling
         new interdisciplinary collaborations. This includes a large “play space” for participants,
         equipped with five headsets, two incorporating an eye-tracker, and high-spec PCs.

 Our specialist facilities also include: a) a speech perception and speech production studio housed
 in a sound-treated room with specialized equipment for measuring tongue movement; b) a TMS
 laboratory with the Magstim Rapid Stimulator for single-pulse and repetitive stimulation and Visor

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 System for Neuronavigation; c) a ‘Baby Lab’ including waiting room, testing room and control
 room with dual camera capability; d) behavioral labs (with recording equipment and three high-
 spec participant-testing PCs/stations); e) psycholinguistics laboratory. These facilities are
 centrally-bookable and accessible to all research staff and PGRs irrespective of funding.
 Management of our research facilities and infrastructure is undertaken by the R&D Coordinator
 who risk assesses all facilities, manages our participant pool, assists with research ethics, and
 organises impact events.
 The Department benefits further from large capital investments (£57m) in a new state-of-the-art
 library in the Emily Wilding Davison building, and the new Beatrice Shilling building (£18m
 investment, opened 2018) accommodating the new Electronic Engineering Department. The
 Shilling Building houses the AHRC creative cluster ‘StoryFutures’ with purpose-built VR facilities
 to which we have access through our central role in ‘StoryFutures’ (Dalton). Staff in the
 Department have used these new buildings along with our property in Bedford Square to host
 events with external stakeholders designed to enhance our research impacts. The impacts of
 Bradley’s research have also been supported through dedicated space in the RHUL Enterprise
 Centre for HPR Ltd, the commercial arm of her research.

 3.3 Specialist and collaborative research infrastructure or facilities
 The ‘Combined University Brain Imaging Centre’ (CUBIC) hosts our 3T MRI scanner, the first
 research-dedicated MRI in a UK Psychology Department. This facility is jointly owned and run
 through a long-standing partnership between Royal Holloway, Brunel University, Roehampton
 University and the University of Surrey. The scanner recently underwent a major upgrade
 (replacement of gradient coils 2018). We invested £85k in a High Performance Computing
 Cluster and our Data Storage and Network Back-up (2015 and 2017) to upgrade the IT
 infrastructure, with the development of a new powerful ‘cluster’ to manage computer resources
 for raw data processing and analysis.
 The MRI Research Fellow (Sengupta) provides support for all MRI users (including PGRs) in
 methods and analysis and the use of the cluster. Capability has been extended by introducing
 new rules of operation to enable the scanning of children (2017), and we have invested in
 peripherals including MRI-compatible transcranial direct-current stimulation (tDCS) and the
 purchase of a ‘Biopac’ (£16k, 2018) enabling the direct MRI-compatible recording of physiological
 measures (ECG, EMG, respiration & bi-manual grip force). We advanced our commitment to
 Open Science in MRI research by enabling staff to adopt good data management practices and
 data sharing through a wiki knowledge-base. Researchers have access to the RHUL ‘Figshare’
 data repository and can make their data publicly available via the OpenNeuro platform as
 documented on the CUBIC wiki.
 By 2022, the CUBIC 3T scanner will be 20 years old and additional strategic investment will be
 critical for driving forward the research excellence of the Department, the School and RHUL as a
 whole. For this reason, RHUL has enthusiastically endorsed our plan to replace the scanner,
 ensuring the continuation of our world-leading neuroimaging research.




                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.4 COVID-19 pandemic

 Our infrastructure and support mechanisms offered resilience to the impacts of COVID-19 on our
 research. Grants from our Research Initiative Fund were immediately made available to
 colleagues who studied the psychological and social impact of the pandemic. For example,
 McKay is involved in the multi-wave C19PRC Study that monitors and assesses the pandemic’s
 long-term psychological, social, economic and political impacts. This study was launched on 23
 March 2020 (Wave 1), the day that a strict UK lockdown was enforced, and has already generated
 13 publications. Tsakiris led data collection from the UK and Greece as part of one of largest
 international studies, involving representative samples (total: 47k) from 67 countries. Our
 investment in the post of R&D Coordinator allowed efficient COVID-specific risk assessment of
 our labs, and many reopened in time for the Autumn term.

 4 Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Strong collaborations underpin the vitality of our Department, and our leadership within the wider
 discipline contributes to its sustainability. We have deep, reciprocal partnerships with a range of
 industry, government, public sector and charity organisations, which inform our research at every
 stage and permit us to make pivotal contributions to society and the economy, both nationally and
 internationally, via changes to knowledge, policies and practices. These activities and
 achievements reflect staff at all career levels, and women are prominently represented.

 4.1 Research collaborations

 Support for collaboration forms a cornerstone of our research strategy; it was a primary motivation
 for restructuring our research groups, and underpinned our move to promote dual supervision for
 PGR students. The MRI Fellow role was also aimed at encouraging staff to develop new and
 often collaborative research directions with a focus on neuroimaging. Staff are supported to
 develop external collaborations through easy access to travel and seed funding via the
 Department’s Knowledge Exchange Fund and Research Initiative Fund. More extended visits to
 develop impact (e.g. Dalton to Cranfield University, UK) and research (Durant to the Hungarian
 Academy of Science, Bardi at the University of Western Australia) collaborations with colleagues
 in other institutions are supported through sabbaticals. Collaboration is recognised formally
 through the promotions process (e.g. the Senior Lecturer criteria emphasise “successful
 collaborations with other research teams/institutions”). Our success in supporting collaboration is
 illustrated, for example, by: the 86% of submitted outputs that involve co-authors from other
 institutions; major funded research projects involving collaborations with other institutions, both
 nationally (e.g. Tsakiris seconded at the Warburg Institute for the “Body & Image in Arts & Science’
 project) and internationally (e.g. McKay on the ARC Centre of Excellence in Cognition and its
 Disorders at Macquarie University, Australia, Ricketts with MGH Institute of Health Professionals,
 Boston, USA, Rastle with Sogang University, South Korea, Tsakiris in a Visiting Professorship at
 the University of Luxembourg, and a long-standing collaboration with the New York University
 School of Medicine on their joint research in face-transplantation); and the success and longevity
 of the CUBIC research partnership across four institutions. Our submitted outputs and impact
 case studies further showcase our collaborations and joint infrastructures.




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.2 Relationships with users, beneficiaries, and audiences

 Our impact strategy informs our relationships with non-academic beneficiaries. Projects are
 supported through Department’s Research Initiative Fund and RHUL’s Research Strategy Fund.
 Training from the Department, School and College supports researchers in developing existing
 relationships with key research users and beneficiaries, and in fostering relationships with new
 stakeholders (e.g. training on how to engage with government and parliament). Individual support
 from the Director of Impact can identify relationships that would enhance knowledge transfer for
 a specific project and suggest targeted mechanisms for developing such relationships. The
 Department also supports a range of bespoke knowledge transfer and public engagement
 activities, including research networks and seminar series that actively draw in professional
 stakeholders (e.g. the South East Research Network for Schools, described further below). These
 engagement activities often involve PhD students and ECRs, ensuring that these relationships
 can be sustained in the Department and in the wider discipline. For example, PGR student Lally
 provided training on engaging with the Parliamentary Office for Science and Technology following
 an internship with them, and PGR student Soderberg had a 3 month placement at the Cabinet
 Office
 These strategies have helped us to grow our industry partnerships substantially. We play a major
 role in two AHRC-funded interdisciplinary projects aimed at driving innovation and growth in
 immersive storytelling (‘StoryFutures’ and ‘StoryFutures Academy’) involving partnerships with
 large companies including Discovery and Heathrow (Dalton). These collaborations have
 energised related partnerships with Tobii (Zanker, Durant) and Cinefade, a leading edge
 cinematic production company (Durant). Our previous REF submission described Wann’s long-
 standing links with Volvo and Transport Research Laboratory; his mentorship has supported other
 colleagues to develop projects with the latter (Dalton, Durant), investigating the safe use of
 domestic VR systems (funded by the Department of Trade and Industry) and motion in advertising
 displays. Our long-standing links with the major global pharmaceuticals are described in the
 impact case study about Bradley’s work on quality of life. Tsakiris is scientific advisor for Empathic
 Technologies Ltd and Team Turquoise Ltd in the area of wearable technologies. The importance
 that RHUL places on industry engagement as part of a vital research culture is demonstrated by
 the recent promotion of Cinnirella to a practice-based industrial professorship, further enhancing
 our environment. Cinnirella advises multinationals including Shell and GSK on security
 behaviours and has delivered keynotes to large industry conferences at i-4 and the UN
 International Atomic Energy Agency.
 Our engagement with government, charities, and the public sector has also increased
 dramatically. Rastle, Ricketts, Krishnan and Watling work with a large and well-established
 network of schools, educational practitioners and health practitioners (South East Research
 Network for Schools (SERNS) led by Ricketts). SERNS holds an annual meeting that brings
 together researchers and education practitioners in a two-way dialogue to inform research design
 and practice, and enhance understanding of the diverse publics that our research needs to
 benefit. There are deep synergies between this work and Walker’s long-standing partnership with
 the Macular Society. He is a member of their professional advisory board and has worked with
 them to develop technological reading aids for people with vision loss. Walker has a Knowledge
 Exchange project to promote wider use of technology as a visual aid in low-income countries with


                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 a colleague in the School of Management. In the human factors domain, Dalton has worked with
 the Ministry of Defence and, in a separate project, with the UK Civil Aviation Authority and the
 Safety and Accident Investigation Centre at Cranfield to improve the design of helicopter warning
 systems. Ferre’s work on vestibular–multisensory interactions was sponsored by the European
 Low Gravity Research Association and European Space Agency and has broad applications for
 human space programmes.

 4.3 Wider contributions to the economy and society
 We produce policy-relevant and public-orientated research findings that contribute to debates on
 topics such as global literacy, transport safety, quality of life in chronic health conditions, and
 memory in the judicial system. Our commitment to engaging proactively with non-academic
 beneficiaries allows us to ensure that this research delivers on its potential for driving wider
 economic and societal impacts. For example, Rastle has advised both the World Bank on their
 ‘Ending Learning Poverty’ strategy that aims to halve global illiteracy by 2030, and the
 Massachusetts Department for Education on their strategy for Mass Literacy. Ricketts and Rastle
 work with educational charities (e.g., National Literacy Trust), the press (tes, formerly the Times
 Educational Supplement), schools and teachers to inform educational practices for promoting
 reading. They were lead speakers in a parliamentary seminar on literacy chaired by Suella
 Braverman MP. Ricketts works closely with the Education Endowment Foundation (EEF), a high-
 profile charity that summarises research evidence for use in schools and funds educational
 research, and has contributed to guidelines for teaching literacy in secondary schools. Tsakiris
 was a steering committee member and co-author of the flagship Scientific and Technical
 Research Report ‘Understanding our Political Nature’, led by the EU’s Science Advisory Body
 and prepared for the new EU Commission (2019). Dalton’s work on helicopter warning systems
 informed the European Organisation for Civil Aviation Electronics. Dalton has also served as an
 expert witness for Fatal Accident Inquiries by the Scottish Courts into two major helicopter
 crashes, including the Clutha disaster. Wann’s work on children’s roadside judgments is
 translated through his role as trustee of the Bikeability Trust, which engages over 50% of
 England’s primary school children in cycle training. Finally, the audience insights team within
 ‘StoryFutures’ (led by Dalton) has supported the development of more than ten new immersive
 storytelling experiences, including ‘Virtual Veronese’ – the National Gallery’s first ever virtual
 reality experience, and generated broader insights into immersive audiences that have been
 shared with stakeholders around the world.
 We use multi-media outlets, science festivals, museum residencies (Science Museum, Tate
 Exchange) and public engagement events to showcase our research with diverse publics. For
 example, Krishnan gave one of the ‘Lost Lectures’ at the Natural History Museum alongside
 champion beatboxer Bellatrix; Rastle spoke at UNESCO about ‘how we can end the Reading
 Wars’; and Ferre discussed the future of human space exploration at an event organised by the
 Space Generation Advisory Council. Our colleagues also work closely with the RHUL press office
 to capture opportunities to share our research on television (e.g. BBC), radio (e.g. More or Less,
 In Touch), and in newspaper formats (e.g. NY Times, Guardian).




                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.4 Contributions to the sustainability of the discipline

 We contribute to disciplinary sustainability through memberships of key panels and advisory
 groups (outlined in detail in section 4.5 below) as well as by serving on umbrella bodies that
 promote vitality, reproducibility and sustainability in scientific inquiry itself, within the Department
 as our Open Science policies and support mechanisms demonstrate, and beyond. For example,
 Rastle and Tsakiris have used their editorial positions at Journal of Memory and Language and
 Cognition to introduce Open Data policies that enhance reproducibility across the discipline.
 Ramnani has represented the British Neuroscience Association (BNA) on the Parliamentary and
 Scientific Committee, which provides a link between Parliamentarians, scientific bodies, industry
 and academia, and is now a member of their Programme Committee. Our support for early career
 researchers and PGRs also allows us to contribute to the sustainability of the discipline by
 developing the research leaders of the future.

 An important part of our approach to our discipline’s sustainability entails our ability to make links
 with other areas, and our strong commitment to interdisciplinary research highlighted throughout
 this document. Our staff have leading roles in major interdisciplinary research projects including
 the Body & Image in Arts and Science project (Tsakiris) and ‘StoryFutures’ (Dalton) and we
 deliberately seek to enable new connections, for example by focusing PhD studentships on cross-
 and inter-disciplinary research. As a result of our research re-structuring, 40% of our PGRs
 conduct cross- or interdisciplinary research and are co-supervised by staff from different research
 groups or academics from other disciplines. Such networks of collaborations beyond the discipline
 allow us to respond rapidly to newly emerging national and international challenges, as
 exemplified by McKay’s involvement in the multidisciplinary C19PRC study that was launched in
 response to COVID-19. This type of work is supported through a new (2020) leadership (Rastle)
 to promote interdisciplinarity and challenge-led research.

 4.5 Contributions to the research base
 Staff are strongly encouraged and mentored to contribute to the sustainability of the research
 base by participating in peer review, panels, and learned societies, and their contributions have
 been acknowledged with a range of prizes and awards.
 Editorial Contributions. One third of our staff have held senior or associate editorial roles in
 major journals during the period including: Journal of Memory and Language (Rastle, Editor-
 in-Chief), Cognition (Tsakiris, joint Senior Editor), British Journal of Social Psychology
 (Zagefka, Editor-in-Chief), Frontiers in Psychology: Personality and Social Psychology
 (Bardi, joint Editor-in-Chief), Journal for the Cognitive Science of Religion (McKay, Editor-in-
 Chief), Brain and Neuroscience Advances (Ramnani, Senior Editor), and Associate Editor roles
 in Infant & Child Development (Watling) British Journal of Psychology (McKay), Journal of
 Experimental Psychology: HPP (Rastle), Auditory Perception and Cognition (Hughes),
 British Journal of Educational Psychology (Ricketts),.
 Panel Memberships. Rastle chairs the ESRC steering group (since 2019) on the Future of the
 PhD in the Social Sciences designed to inform the shape of the next generation of DTPs. She
 has been a member of the ESRC Strategic Advisory Network (since 2019); the ESRC Research
 Committee (2015-18); and was Chair of the ESRC grants assessment panels for Psychology
 (2014,2015). Rastle served on the Medical & Health Sciences panel for the Excellence in

                                                                                                 Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research for Australia (2015) and is a panel member for REF2021. Ramnani is a trustee for
 Research Policy at the British Neuroscience Association (2017-), was a core member of BBSRC
 committee A (2016-2019) and served on funding panels in Portugal and France. Walker is a
 member of the Moorfields Eye Charity research grant panel. Zagefka is a panel member of the
 Polish National Science Centre, member of panel for NORFACE and Chair of the Psychology,
 Pedagogy, Didactics and Social Work Panel at Research Foundation – Flanders (Belgium) where
 Tsakiris also serves as member. Tsakiris is panel member of the Fyssen Foundation (France)
 and the Volkswagen Stiftung (Germany). Ferre is a panel member for the European Science
 Foundation and the European Space Agency.
 Prizes, Fellowships and other Recognition. Staff across all career stages have been awarded
 prestigious prizes and fellowships: Rastle, EPS Mid-Career Prize (2017) and ESRC ‘Celebrating
 Impact’ Prize (2020); Tsakiris, Young Mind and Brain Prize (2014), 22nd Experimental
 Psychology Society Prize (2015), NOMIS Foundation Distinguished Scientist Award (2016);
 McGettigan, Leverhulme Trust Major Research Leadership Award (2017); Mickes, Psychonomic
 Society Early Career Award (2017); Ferre, European Low Gravity Research Association
 Research Prize (2017); Murphy, EPS Frith Prize (2020). Rastle (2018) and Tsakiris (2020) were
 elected to the Academia Europea; Tsakiris to the APS (2019); and Rastle (2018) to the Academy
 of Social Sciences. Rastle is President Elect of the EPS and Tsakiris is President of the European
 Society for Cognitive and Affective Neuroscience.




                                                                                            Page 19
