Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of St Andrews

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 30: Philosophy

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 1.1 UNIT CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE
 The Department of Philosophy at the University of St Andrews is a world-renowned centre for
 research and teaching in philosophy and its history. We are currently ranked 8th in the QS World
 University Rankings in philosophy and 3rd best UK postgraduate programme by the influential
 US-based Philosophical Gourmet Report. We are ranked 1st and 3rd among UK philosophy
 departments by the 2021 versions of, respectively, the Guardian University Guide and the
 Complete University Guide. At the REF census date we had eighteen full-time academic staff,
 three on continuing fractional contracts, and five Professorial Fellows.
 The Department continues to produce excellent research. It has an excellent track record in
 winning research grants. It has a vibrant graduate community, durable international
 relationships, broad interdisciplinary coverage, and a strengthened commitment to equality and
 diversity.
 Much, but by no means all, of our research and impact work is done in the context of our three
 research centres:




 Philosophy at St Andrews continues also to be a major centre for work in philosophical
 aesthetics, and for work in the history of philosophy, with a particular emphasis on ancient
 philosophy, medieval logic, seventeenth and eighteenth-century philosophy, and Kant.
 Postgraduate research and supervision are carried out in partnership with the Department of
 Philosophy at the University of Stirling, under the aegis of the St Andrews-Stirling Graduate
 Programme in Philosophy (SASP). Our PGT Philosophy MLitt is another part of SASP. All
 students are taught and supervised by members of both the departments, and graduate with
 degrees from both universities. While SASP administration is based at St Andrews, the
 programme's management committee comprises members of both departments.
 Philosophy at St Andrews is part of the School of Philosophical, Anthropological, and Film
 Studies. As part of this larger academic unit we take advantage of pooled administrative and
 financial resources, and engage in strategic planning. It was as part of the School that we made
 our successful Athena Swan Bronze application, and it is in the School context that we will be
 further addressing issues connected with equality, diversity and inclusion.




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2 RESEARCH AND IMPACT: STRATEGY AND ACHIEVEMENT
 Our goal as a department, in research and impact terms, is to make the best possible use of all
 resources in the production of innovative contributions to the discipline of philosophy, whilst
 ensuring that our research is shared maximally widely beyond the academic world, thereby
 creating an environment in which all researchers, including our postgraduate students, are
 enabled to realise their full potential.
 In our submission to REF2014, we laid out five principal elements of our research strategy:
        •continue to produce excellent research outputs
        •ensure that our research centres [at the time, Arché and CEPPA] continued to flourish;
        •win substantial research grants;
        •maintain the vitality of our postgraduate community; and
        •cultivate our strong international relationships.
 In this document we demonstrate our continuing success in achieving these goals.
 At the same time, however, we have taken account of changes in both the academic
 environment and the wider social context in which UK universities are situated. In response we
 are now also focusing on:
        •maximising the visibility and impact of our research
        •broadening our disciplinary coverage;
        •benefiting where possible from inter-disciplinary research opportunities; and
        •promoting issues of equality and diversity.
 Furthermore, the School in which we are located has undergone a comprehensive review of its
 administrative structures, with the aim of
        •providing targeted and properly resourced support for all aspects of research and
        impact activity.
 Excellence in research
 Since 2014 philosophers at St Andrews have published more than 40 monographs, edited
 collections, and scholarly editions; around 240 journal articles; and more than 100 book
 chapters. Evidence of the esteem in which the Department is held both nationally and
 internationally is provided in §4.3.2.
 Flourishing research centres
 CEPPA: Following the arrival of Pummer as both Lecturer and Director of the CEPPA research
 centre in 2015, CEPPA underwent a significant transformation of its operations. It now has 7
 different research strands, a visiting speaker series that brings around 20 philosophers and
 public figures to St Andrews each year, a regular annual conference, and several additional
 conferences and workshops each year. Around 20 PGR students are closely involved in the
 centre's activities, along with 14 permanent staff, and also, as of 2020, a dedicated Professorial
 Fellow (Driver).
 Arché: The number of the centre's research streams has increased from 4 to 6 since 2014. Berto
 and Scharp are now key members. The 4 Professorial Fellows attached to Arché are all closely
 involved in seminars, reading groups, workshops and conferences, the development of grant
 applications, and research student supervision and examination. Each research stream has a
 weekly seminar, attended by staff and PGR students. There are also new research groups on
 artificial intelligence and on experimental philosophy. Arché runs an average of 10-15
 conferences per year, hosts around 100 talks by external speakers per year, plus around 50
 talks by internal speakers. 20-30 PGR students have a close relationship with the centre at any
 one time. A new grant writing seminar has generated several major grant applications.
 StAIGS: This new research centre, founded and directed by Kerr, brings together over 130
 academics with research interests in gender from 22 departments in the University. The centre
 runs an internal speaker series, an external speaker series, a feminist reading group, and a

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 feminist film series, in addition to workshops, roundtables, and conferences. In 2020 the first
 students arrived to study on StAIGS’s new PGT programme.
 Success in grant applications
 The Department won grant income totalling £967,605 in this REF period, in the form of large-
 scale collaborative grants, network grants, individual awards from bodies such as the
 Leverhulme Trust and the British Academy, residential fellowships, and grants to fund
 workshops and conferences.
 A vibrant postgraduate community
 Since 2014 the size of the SASP postgraduate research community has increased from around
 35 to 65. Many PG students are associated with either the CEPPA or Arché research centres,
 and are fully integrated into their programmes of activities. All PGR students are provided with a
 range of opportunities to refine their research skills and to assist with career development (see
 §2.3). The success of our PGR programme is evidenced by our placement record. Each year
 30-40 students take the SASP PGT MLitt degree, and around 5 go on to a research degree
 (PhD or MPhil).
 Strong international relationships
 The strength of our international connections is evidenced by the stream of visitors to St
 Andrews from abroad (between 100 and 150 per year); the international nature of our academic
 community, including our Professorial Fellows (currently from the USA(x5) and The
 Netherlands), PGR students, and postdoctoral researchers (since 2014, from Italy(x2), Canada,
 Amsterdam(x3) but also members of the Department); co-tutelle PhD agreements (with the
 University of Oslo, the University of Amsterdam, and the University of Bonn); and the many
 research collaborations detailed in §4.1.3. Further evidence is provided by our large number of
 keynote lectures at international conferences and visiting positions overseas (see §4.3.2); and
 also by numerous requests to referee for international research councils, and to contribute to
 overseas tenure and promotion reviews.
 Knowledge exchange and the achievement of impact
 Since 2014 we have developed our efforts to ensure that philosophy at St Andrews engages
 with the non-academic world. For many colleagues, the attempt to inform and inspire members
 of the public has become an integral part of their philosophical practice. The Department has
 sought to encourage and facilitate the dissemination of philosophical ideas and arguments in a
 variety of ways, e.g. the creation of the new administrative role of Director of Impact, the
 allocation of funds to support knowledge exchange (KE) and impact (up to £500 per application),
 the writing of KE duties into the job description of one new appointment (Etinson), the retention
 on a 0.2FTE contract of a senior member of staff with experience and expertise in this area
 (Haldane), and the creation of blogs and a departmental Twitter feed.
 Expanded disciplinary coverage
 While ensuring that we maintain our traditional strengths in central areas of "analytic" philosophy
 (with the appointments of Berto and Scharp), we have augmented our expertise in practically-
 orientated moral and political philosophy (with the appointments of Pummer and Etinson), and
 also in the history of philosophy (with the appointment of Douglas; as well as Thakkar's tenure
 as Leverhulme ECF 2014-17). The appointment of Kerr as a research fellow in 2016-8 extended
 our expertise into the philosophy of gender and sex; Kerr's current work in the setting up of a
 new Institute for Gender Studies will provide a context for more research in those areas.
 Interdisciplinarity
 Philosophers at St Andrews have developed research projects in relationships with scholars in a
 very wide range of academic disciplines, from psychology to management, and from English to
 divinity. We have participated in the establishment at St Andrews of interdisciplinary research
 centres such as the Logos Institute for Analytical and Exegetical Theology, and the Centre for
 Exoplanet Sciences.



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality and diversity
 Since 2014 issues of equality and diversity have moved from the periphery to the centre of UK
 academia's understanding of itself and of its responsibilities. One major engagement with these
 issues, our application for Athena Swan Bronze status, has been conducted at the level of
 School, rather than Department. Members of the Department of Philosophy have been actively
 and extensively involved in the application, especially Ball, who currently serves as School
 Equality and Diversity Officer. In addition to the process of self-reflection and policy formation
 involved in the Athena Swann application, we have sought to the address the moral imperatives
 of the equality and diversity agenda. The Institute for Gender Studies has made important
 contributions to the formation of policy in these areas.


 1.3 OPEN RESEARCH AND RESEARCH INTEGRITY
 Open research: Philosophy at St Andrews is progressing towards becoming an open research
 environment. Colleagues now regularly deposit book chapters as well as journal articles in
 PURE. Cappelen and Berto have had the cost of publishing open access monographs written
 into research grants they have received from, respectively, the Norwegian Research Council and
 the ERC. Berto, Cotnoir, Harris, and Sachs have published in fully open access journals. We
 regularly invite staff from the University's Open Access team to department meetings to help us
 continue to develop this dimension of our work.
 In addition, St Andrews staff have contributed in various ways to the theory and practice of open
 access both within the University and in the larger international context (see Institution-Level
 Environment Statement, ILES, 2.4). Scharp was part of a St Andrews team investigating the
 possible of a wholly open access university press. Cappelen took part in the Norwegian debate
 about open access, publishing articles on the issue in the newspaper Aftenposten. Pummer has
 served on the editorial team of the open access journal Ergo.

 Research integrity: All new members of the Department are given initial training which
 introduces the guidelines offered by UTREC and the Research Integrity policy. Students at all
 levels are required to pass an online course in Good Academic Practice provided by our Centre
 for Educational Enhancement and Development. The ethical context for research is
 disseminated through our annually revised Staff Handbook, which details the activities of the
 School’s ethics committee. The Department has regular visits from a representative of the
 Universities Research Information Services office to refresh our awareness of issues concerning
 research integrity in the arts and (in the case of interdisciplinary research) the sciences.

 1.4 LOOKING TO THE FUTURE
 Over the next five years, we will remain focused on the objectives described above. In addition
 to the goals carried over from REF2014, we will be working to further embed in our research
 practice the priorities which we have taken up during the present REF cycle. We intend to
        •further expand our coverage of the discipline of philosophy;
        •seek more interdisciplinary collaborations;
        •widen the remit of our public engagement work, and taking advantage of all new
        opportunities for impact communities outwith the academy; and, especially,
        •do more to address issues of identity and diversity, as we pursue the objectives outlined
        in the action plan of our Athena Swan Bronze application.




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 2. People

 2.1 STAFFING STRATEGY
 Our principal goal with respect to academic staff is to retain and nurture excellent researchers by
 enabling them to realise their full research potential, thereby facilitating their promotion, and
 ensuring their proper recognition in the profession at large. Our commitment to retention and
 realisation of potential is evidenced by our successes in each year's promotions round. In the
 period 2014-20 eight colleagues were promoted to Senior Lecturer, one to Reader, and two to
 Professor. At the 2020 census date, only one member of permanent staff remained at Lecturer
 level.
 We have used the retirements of senior colleagues as opportunities to reconsider our research
 and teaching coverage, so as to enable us both to give comprehensive attention to the most vital
 areas of philosophical inquiry, and to extend our curriculum so as to develop teaching expertise
 in areas of current concern. Douglas, Etinson, Pummer and Scharp were all appointed following,
 or in anticipation of, retirements (or reductions of commitment) during the current REF period.
 Each of these appointments was made in accord with elements of our research strategy:
 Pummer and Etinson have boosted our commitment to public philosophy, and have helped to
 ensure the ongoing success of the CEPPA research centre; Douglas has added to our expertise
 in the history of philosophy; and Scharp has given additional research strength to the Arché
 research centre. We have sought, where possible, to extract maximal benefit from the very large
 and strong pools of applications that we receive for advertised positions. Twice since 2014 we
 have made two job offers where a single position was advertised (Douglas as well as Scharp,
 Berto as well as Dickie).
 A major opportunity was presented by a £5m donation to the University from the Shelby Cullom
 Davis Fund for the creation of a new named chair in philosophy. Imogen Dickie was the first
 incumbent, but returned to the University of Toronto after a year. A new appointment will be
 made in 2021. Berto's appointment followed the interview process for this position, providing an
 opportunity for us to demonstrate our ongoing commitment to areas of philosophy (in this case,
 logic and metaphysics) for which St Andrews has an established global reputation.
 In 2019 the University reaffirmed its commitment to our longstanding policy of employing 0.2FTE
 Professorial Fellows in order to augment our research activities, and we appointed five new
 Professorial Fellows, four to work with the Arché research centre (Goldberg, Dutilh Novaes,
 Russell, Sorensen), and, for the first time, one to work with CEPPA (Driver). Our Professorial
 Fellows generally spend a month in St Andrews, and for the rest of the year take part in
 seminars and reading groups online. They are an integral part of our programme of PGR
 supervision, acting as secondary supervisors and thereby broadening our range of expertise, as
 well as giving students experience of and access to the international philosophical community.
 Another key element of our staffing strategy bears on fixed-term, often early career, staff.
 Colleagues in receipt of grants and fellowships are, where the terms of the award permit,
 replaced by fixed-term teaching appointments. We take our commitment to fixed-term
 colleagues seriously, and we seek to ensure that they are able to move on from to St Andrews to
 more secure positions elsewhere. We describe below our policies in connection with fixed-term
 and early career staff, and give instances of their transitions to permanent academic
 employment. Where possible, we have appointed fixed-term staff on 12-month rather than 9-
 month contracts, thereby giving these staff the chance to improve their research profiles as well
 as teach. We were recently successful in applying to the University to turn one fixed-term
 colleague's (Pedriali) contract into a permanent teaching-focused position.
 We have been successful in persuading colleagues who wish to take up full-time appointments
 elsewhere to retain a significant connection with Philosophy at St Andrews, usually in the form of
 a 0.2FTE teaching and research appointment. The benefits of this kind of relationship are
 significant, both in respect of added PhD supervision capacity and in respect of research
 outputs.



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2 STAFF DEVELOPMENT
 We recognise that for all researchers, especially those at an early stage in their careers, the key
 requirement for career development is time. New appointees to permanent positions are given a
 25% reduction in teaching load as well as a maximally light administrative burden, and efforts
 are made to ensure that they are not asked to teach subjects in which they do not already have
 expertise.
 All permanent academic staff can apply for research leave at a rate of one semester per six
 semesters of teaching –which is more often than University policy dictates (leave can be applied
 for early, e.g. in order to facilitate timely completion of a substantial piece of research). The clock
 pauses when colleagues are "bought out" from teaching by external funding, so as to ensure
 that research opportunities are distributed as widely as possible. In addition, impact leave can be
 granted for special projects, and impact activities may be funded through application either to the
 University’s Knowledge Exchange and Impact Fund (up to £12,500), or for smaller amounts, to
 the Department’s own ring-fenced impact fund (up to £500).
 We recognise also that it is important for researchers to be able to travel to workshops and
 conferences. All staff, including those on fixed-term contracts, have an annual research/travel
 allowance of £1,000. All research staff (including post-doctoral researchers) are given their own
 office.
 Individual mentoring within the School is provided to all early-career staff on fixed-term or
 continuing contracts. In addition, we have taken advantage of (i) the St Andrews Elizabeth
 Garret Mentoring Programme for women in or aspiring to academic leadership roles (ILES, 3.2);
 (ii) a cross-institutional scheme open to all, matching mentorship across the Universities of St
 Andrews, Dundee, and Abertay, plus the Glasgow School of Art and the James Hutton Institute;
 (iii) the UK-wide Aurora leadership development programme for women. Philosophy staff have
 participated both as mentors and mentees in all of these schemes.
 All early-career and fixed-term staff are invited to present their work at our biannual work-in-
 progress days, and to take advantage of the numerous opportunities to present research in the
 context of our research centres Arché, CEPPA, and StAIGS. We offer teaching to post-doctoral
 researchers, where that is compatible with the specific terms of their positions, and where it is
 likely to enhance their job prospects in the future.
 With respect to permanent staff, the success of these staff development policies is evidenced by
 our retention and promotions records. With respect to fixed-term staff, their success is evidenced
 by the fact that since 2014 many have gone from temporary positions at St Andrews to pursue
 flourishing academic careers, including Dan Cavedon-Taylor (Lecturer at the Open University),
 Aisling Crean (Teaching Associate at Oxford's Blavatnik School of Government), Bruno Jacinto
 (Postdoctoral Fellow at Lisbon), Brian McElwee (Lecturer at Southampton), Walter Pedriali
 (Lecturer at St Andrews), Fenner Tanswell (Lecturer in Mathematics at Loughborough), Mark
 Thakkar (Research Associate at King's College London), and Michael Walschots (Research
 Fellow at Halle-Wittenberg).


 2.3 RESEARCH STUDENTS
 As explained in §1, all postgraduate students are members of the fully integrated St Andrews
 Stirling Graduate Programme (SASP). All SASP students graduate with a double-badged
 degree.
 Each year income from The Philosophical Quarterly (co-owned with the Scottish Philosophical
 Association) is used to support PhD research students, in the form of both fee waivers and
 maintenance bursaries. In 2019-20 we used this income to award two full three-year
 studentships, covering fees and a £15,000 maintenance grant. We have been successful in
 obtaining Scottish Graduate School/AHRC bursaries: on average two SASP students receive
 funding from this source each year. SASP students have also received funding from the
 Carnegie Trust, the Janet T. Anderson Trust, the Links Trust and the Jacobsen Trust, in addition
 to funding that students have obtained from their home countries. In addition, our students have

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 been successful in winning scholarships from the various funds that the University administers
 internally, for instance adding maintenance grants to fees-only SGSAH/AHRC awards.
 Supervision of research students is not undertaken in addition to the standard teaching load.
 Instead, 10 hours of teaching per student is credited to the primary supervisor, out of a target
 annual total of 105 hours. 2 hours per student is allocated to the secondary supervisor. Progress
 is formally assessed at comprehensive annual review meetings.
 All PGR students with the relevant interests are integrated into the operations of our research
 centres Arché and CEPPA. In the case of Arché, this entails active membership of two research
 streams and attendance at events associated with those streams, giving talks and leading
 discussions at seminars, and assistance with planning, grant writing, and impact work. In the
 case of CEPPA, it entails close involvement with the organisation and running of a visitor
 speaker series; a budget for the organisation of a CEPPA conference for PGR students; and
 regular contact with the CEPPA Professorial Fellow.
 All students are required to present some of their work at some point each year at a weekly
 seminar run by the PhD student community. The Department provides money for food and
 refreshments at each meeting. "Reading parties", held at different locations in the Scottish
 Highlands, are held annually, close to the beginning of the academic year, and are open to all
 PG students.
 We have co-tutelle relationships with the philosophy departments of the Universities of
 Amsterdam, Bonn, and Oslo. In addition, students are encouraged to make use of the
 international relationships described in §4, as well as other more informal contacts, in order to
 spend a semester studying somewhere other than St Andrews.
 Students are encouraged to participate in all of the Department's workshops, conferences and
 reading groups, and, moreover, are encouraged to organise events of their own. In addition to
 student-run events taking place under the aegis of Arché, CEPPA and StAIGS, there are annual
 Kant and ancient philosophy conferences exclusively organised by PGR students (and partially
 funded by the Department).
 We provide all PhD students with an annual research allowance of £300 to help them present
 their work at national and international conferences. Most PhD students are provided with office
 accommodation, usually shared.
 In the interests of professional development, we encourage PhD students to do a small amount
 of tutorial teaching on our first and second-year modules. Full and mandatory training is provided
 at the start of each semester. On an annual basis SASP runs workshops on publishing in
 philosophy (with input from current and former editors of The Philosophical Quarterly) and on
 applying for both academic and non-academic jobs. We encourage students also to take
 advantage of career-development resources offered by the Scottish Graduate School, as well as
 by the University. The Department provides funding for students to make use of the Interfolio job
 application service, and assists with mock interviews, practice job talks, and practice teaching
 presentations.
 We encourage PG students to monitor the impact of their research. Hawley secured funding
 from Audit Scotland for one PGR student, as part of his research, to collect data connected with
 her work on trust.
 We believe that the quality of the training and resources we offer our research students is
 attested, not only by the number of students we attract, but also by (i) the number and quality of
 publications by our students during their research, and, more importantly, (ii) our placement
 record. Since 2014 our graduates have taken up postdoctoral positions in Austria(x2), Brazil,
 France, Germany(x3), Ireland, Japan, Norway, Portugal, Russia, Sweden and Switzerland, as
 well as in the UK(x6). They have taken up permanent or tenure-track positions at universities
 including Amsterdam (Free University), Bristol, Cardiff, Cape Town, Glasgow(x2), Leiden,
 Loughborough, Mimar Sinan Fine Arts (Istanbul), Shanghai, and Tilburg.




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.4 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
 In the period since 2014, Philosophy at St Andrews has engaged in an extensive reconsideration
 of all of its practices in light of consideration of issues of equality, diversity, and inclusion. We are
 acutely aware of, for example, the disparity between the proportion of women undergraduates
 and the proportion at the senior level of the philosophical profession. We recognise the need to
 increase in the proportion of women and members of minority groups in both our postgraduate
 research community and our permanent academic staff. On the other hand, we seek to ensure
 that part-time and short-term appointments are not disproportionately filled by women and
 members of minority groups. In accord with requirements laid down by the University of St
 Andrews, all staff have undergone training in awareness of implicit bias. Several members of
 staff have undertaken special bullying and harassment training, and Ball and Kerr serve as
 points of contact for staff and students on these issues.
 The principal element of our efforts to ensure that our practices conform with the highest
 standards of fairness and equal respect was our contribution to the application made in 2019 by
 the School of Philosophical, Anthropological and Film Studies for Athena Swan Bronze status. In
 the course of developing our Athena SWAN application, we held a survey of all students and
 staff, as well as focus groups for undergraduates, postgraduates, and staff, and undertook a
 comprehensive review of data about gender balance among staff (including data about hiring
 and promotion) and students (including data about applications, offers, and achievements). We
 have formulated a detailed action plan, consisting of some 100 action points; particular points of
 emphasis include raising awareness about bullying and harassment, improved promotions
 procedures, and fostering an inclusive and respectful culture.
 In line with the revised understanding of best practice that the Athena Swan application process
 produced, and in line also with University policy, we now seek to make sure that most of our
 core activities (i.e., meetings, research seminars, talks by visiting speakers) occur between
 10am and 4pm.
 Prior to and independently of the Athena Swan application process, in 2016 the Department
 signed up to the British Philosophical Association/Women in Philosophy's Good Practice
 Scheme. We have a very active undergraduate and postgraduate Women and Minorities in
 Philosophy group. We support and encourage these groups both financially and through staff
 involvement, where appropriate, in their activities.
 The selection outputs for submission to REF was guided by considerations of equality and
 diversity. Colleagues proposed the outputs they considered their best work. A gender-balanced
 panel of readers read the work and provided provisional indications of quality. The basket of
 outputs was selected from those taken to represent our best work across the breadth of
 research activity in the School. The School reflected on the relationship between the staff profile
 and contribution to the outputs selected, and investigated any ways in which the basket of
 outputs was not representative of the staff profile.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 INCOME, EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL
 Grants from external and internal sources are essential to our pursuit of the research and impact
 strategy described in §1. Between 2014 and 2020 we applied for £10.3m in grants from external
 sources, and won a total of £967,605 in funding for research and impact work. Notable
 successes are listed below.


 3.1.1 INCOME FROM EXTERNAL SOURCES
 Project grants
         •Berto: ERC Consolidator Grant (2016-21), 'The Logic of Conceivability' [€2m, divided
         between University of St Andrews and University of Amsterdam].


                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        •Cappelen and Ball: AHRC Science in Culture award (2015-16), 'Rethinking Mind and
        Meaning: A Case Study from a Co-Disciplinary Approach'. In collaboration with
        Psychology at St Andrews. [£250k, of which £12k came to Philosophy]. Funded a
        postdoctoral researcher working at Living Links at Edinburgh Zoo. Also visiting speakers
        and workshops.
        •Read: Leverhulme Trust Project Grant (2017-20), 'Theories of Paradox in Fourteenth-
        Century Logic: Edition and Translation of Key Texts' [£156k]. Funded Bartocci's
        postdoctoral fellowship at St Andrews.
        •Scharp: Swiss National Science Foundation Grant (2019-21), 'Reshaping the World: A
        Systematic Unified Framework for Conceptual Engineering' [£96k]. Funding postdoctoral
        fellowship at St Andrews for Manuel Gustavo Isaac.
 Network grants
        •Brown: Royal Society of Edinburgh Arts and Humanities Workshop Award (2018),
        'Blame and Responsibility' [£10k]. Funded 3 workshops at St Andrews, Edinburgh, and
        Glasgow.
        •Harris: Royal Society of Edinburgh Arts and Humanities Workshop Award (2016-17),
        'The Philosophical Life' [£8k]. Funded 3 workshops at St Andrews and 1 in Edinburgh, in
        collaboration with Tom Jones in the St Andrews School of English.
        •Hawley/Sachs/Mulgan: Royal Society of Edinburgh Arts and Humanities Workshop
        Award (2018-19), 'Exoplanet Ethics' [£8k]. Four workshops at St Andrews plus a panel
        discussion at the Edinburgh Science Festival.
 Individual fellowships
        •Cotnoir: Leverhulme Research Fellowship (2017-18), ‘Wholes: More Than Just the Sum
        of Their Parts?’ [£43k]. This work has so generated three papers (all in press), and a
        forthcoming monograph on mereology (jointly authored with Varzi).
        •Brown: Mind Senior Research Fellowship (2017-18), 'Blame: Epistemic and Moral'
        [£50k]. Papers from this project have been published in Nous and Philosophical Studies,
        two more are under review.
        •Gaut: Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship (2012-14), 'The Philosophy of Creativity' [
        £95k]. Generated 6 published articles and book chapters.
        •Hawley: Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship (2014-16), 'The Importance of Being
        Competent: Ethics and Technology' [£73k]. The major output was the 2019 monograph
        How to be Trustworthy.
        •Harris: British Academy/Leverhulme Senior Research Fellowship (2020), 'Philosophy,
        Philosophizing and the Philosopher in 18th Century Britain' [£56k].
        •Pummer: 2xEffective Altruism Grants from the Centre for Effective Altruism (2018-20)
        [£68k in total]. Papers from this project published in Analysis, The Journal of Philosophy,
        and various edited collections.
        •In addition, St Andrews philosophers have held prize fellowships at the Durham Institute
        for Advanced Study (Brown 2016, Sattler 2017), the Israel Institute of Advanced Studies
        (Sattler 2018), and have held several awards from the John Templeton Foundation
        (Cotnoir 2016, Douglas 2017-18, Hawley, 2016-17).
 Conference funding
 Many of the more than conferences and workshops held at St Andrews since 2014 have been
 supported by successful applications to external sources of funding, including the Scottish
 Philosophical Association, the British Society for the History of Philosophy, the Mind Association,
 the Royal Institute of Philosophy, and the British Society for Aesthetics.
 Funding for post-doctoral positions and academic visits
 We have also applied for and received funding to consolidate existing research strengths and to
 cultivate interdisciplinary and international relationships. A number of these awards have served
 to reinforce our work in the history of philosophy in particular. A notable example was Mark

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Thakkar's Leverhulme Early Career Research Fellowship (2014-17), for work on medieval logic
 supervised by Prof. Stephen Read (retired 2010) [£62k]; but there were also visits from the
 Hungarian Hume scholar Tamás Demeter in 2016 (funded by the Royal Society of Edinburgh, in
 collaboration with the Institute for Intellectual History), and the Hungarian philosopher Zoltan
 Balazs in 2015 (also funded by the Royal Society of Edinburgh, in collaboration with the St
 Andrews Centre for Global Constitutionalism). Timmermann helped secure funding to enable
 long-term visits to St Andrews by Canadian Kant Scholar Michael Walschots (2016-18, funded
 by the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada) and Italian Kant scholar
 Antonino Falduto (2018-20, funded by the Humboldt Foundation). The Scottish Philosophical
 Association funded Stephen Darwall's visit to St Andrews as SPA Centenary Fellow in 2015.


 3.1.2 INCOME FROM INTERNAL SOURCES
 A continuing and significant source of income is the St Andrews half-share of profits from the
 journal The Philosophical Quarterly. (The other half-share belongs to the Scots Philosophical
 Association, which distributes among all philosophy departments in Scotland as funding for
 workshops and conferences.) Since 2014 we have received a total of £362k from this source; in
 2018-19 alone we received £82k. This money has boosted our financial support for PGR
 students, and also (until 2018) helped fund additional administrative support for the department.
 Grants from the Scottish Philosophical Association have funded many individual conferences
 and workshops.
 Our research culture benefits from a number of charitable trusts and bequests, including the
 Paton Fund (funds a biennial colloquium on Kantian philosophy); the Knox Trust (funds an
 annual public lecture); and the J. N. Wright Trust (provides up to £5k every two years to fund a
 major conference, for example Pummer's 2017 conference on 'The Ethics of Giving', and
 Etinson and Snedegar's (postponed) 2020 conference on 'Breakthrough Epistemology'). The
 Department hosts the St Andrews Gifford Lectures every four years.
 In addition to these internal sources of income, the department receives significant financial
 support from the University of St Andrews. The Arché research centre currently receives an
 annual grant of £40k from the University, and the CEPPA research centre receives £10k.
 The department has an impact fund which has been crucial to the development of the two
 Impact Case Studies submitted to REF2021. We have also received grants (£4.8k in total) from
 the University's Knowledge Exchange and Impact Fund (ILES, 2.3).


 3.2 INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES
 3.2.1 Administrative support
 The larger unit in which Philosophy is located at St Andrews (the School of Philosophical,
 Anthropological, and Film Studies) undertook a major review of its administrative and
 professional support services over the course of the current REF cycle. A new School Manager
 role was created, and support staff hitherto connected primarily with the three different
 departments were reassigned to distinct roles common to the departments. In addition, the
 School has a dedicated IT officer.
 As well as a Director of Research, the Department has a Director of Impact. They act as
 interfaces between the Department and University's Research and Innovation Services and
 Business Development teams, to disseminate information relevant to researchers, and to
 provide advice.
 3.2.2 Physical infrastructure and research facilities
 Philosophy at St Andrews is based in a building with 3 seminar rooms, a 24-hour postgraduate
 study space, a library, a common room, and videoconferencing facilities, in addition to offices for
 academic and professional services staff. The Arché research centre has its own building
 nearby, with a seminar room and more than 20 offices of various sizes. During the current REF
 period we have improved the provision of office space for PGR students by relocating 12

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students and giving them shared offices in this building. The Arché building houses Professorial
 Fellows and academic visitors during their stays in St Andrews, and also provides offices for
 post-doctoral research fellows.
 Through the University Library we have access, in print or electronically, to over 700 philosophy
 journals (current subscriptions + archival access). The Library has a collection of over 40,000
 philosophy books. Staff and students have access to online resources such as Oxford
 Bibliographies Online, the Routledge Encylopedia of Philosophy, Early English Books Online,
 and Eighteenth-Century Collections Online. The annual philosophy book budget currently stands
 at £17k (in addition to journal provision), and the Department has been successful in bidding for
 additional funds to improve provision in key research areas, typically around £6k per annum.


 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 ACADEMIC COLLABORATIONS, NETWORKS AND PARTNERSHIPS
 4.1.1 PGR training
 As explained in §1, our entire PG programme (both PGT and PGR) is a collaboration with the
 Department of Philosophy at the University of Stirling. In line with the priorities of the Scottish
 Graduate School, we are also developing co-supervision arrangements with other departments
 in Scotland.
 4.1.2 Research and impact collaborations within the University of St Andrews
 Philosophers at St Andrews have developed a wide range of collaborative research and impact
 projects within the University of St Andrews. These links are supported by a range of
 departmental and University resources, including PhD scholarship schemes and funding from
 the interdisciplinary Graduate School. In addition to StAIGS, our major internal collaborations
 are:
 Centre for Exoplanet Sciences: founded in 2016, combines astronomers, geoscientists,
 biologists and philosophers. Sachs is a member of the management committee, and Mulgan,
 Scharp and several PGR students have also been actively involved.
 Centre for Research on Information, Surveillance, and Privacy: Hawley and Kirstie Ball in
 Management at St Andrews secured funding for an interdisciplinary, co-supervised PhD project
 on "Group Privacy" (2018-21).
 Centre for Survival Rights: founded in 2018 with seed funding from the Scottish Funding
 Council, via the Global Challenges Research Fund. Ashford is one of give core participants,
 together with colleagues from Medicine and Mathematics.
 Divinity: Cotnoir is closely involved with the Logos Institute for Analytical and Exegetical
 Theology, founded in 2016 thanks to a £1.6M grant from the Templeton Fund. Cotnoir has given
 talks in Logos, co-organises the Conceptual Clarity group, and co-supervises a PhD student.
 Broadie, Hawley and Mulgan have also spoken at Logos events.
 English: Harris led a project with Tom Jones in the St Andrews School of English on "The
 Philosophical Life", funded by a Royal Society of Edinburgh Research Network grant.
 Institute of Intellectual History: Harris is one of two co-directors (the other is in History),
 organises the visiting speaker programme, and is closely involved in the planning of conferences
 and other public events, as well as in the supervision and examination of research students.
 Institute of Legal and Constitutional Studies: Ashford is a member of the steering
 community, Etinson and Sachs are affiliated.
 Psychology: Ball and Cappelen collaborated with Gomez in Psychology at St Andrews to
 secure a "Science in Culture" grant from the AHRC on "Rethinking Mind and Meaning"; Ball was
 PI for a follow-up AHRC grant for impact and engagement.
 4.1.3 Research collaborations, national and international

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In keeping with the strategic priority that we give to the cultivation of international relationships,
 we are also closely involved with a range of research projects that link us with a significant
 number of universities in Europe and beyond. For example:
 Ashford has links with several international groups working on human rights and global justice,
 and has participated in workshops in Mexico City and Ghana.
 Ball, Greenough and Scharp are closely involved with ConceptLab at the University of Oslo's
 Philosophy Department, a research project run by Cappelen and funded by the Norwegian
 Research Council.
 Ball was the chairperson of the PLM (Philosophy of Language and Mind) network from 2017-19
 and hosted the 2019 PLM conference in St Andrews. PLM links European philosophy
 departments and research centres with strengths in language and mind, including Jean Nicod,
 Logos (Barcelona), Institute of Philosophy (London), Stockholm, Bochum, ILLC (Amsterdam),
 Vienna, and others.
 Berto's ERC research project on "The Logic of Conceivability" is co-hosted by St Andrews and
 the Institute for Logic, Language, and Computation at the University of Amsterdam. In 2020 the
 project hosted two major international conferences, in Amsterdam and in St Andrews. In
 addition, there are bi-weekly seminars attended (in person or via Skype) by Berto and St
 Andrews PGR students.
 Prosser is a member of the Leverhulme International Network "What's so Special about First-
 Person Thought?", linking St Andrews with ConceptLab at Oslo, the Institut Jean Nicol in Paris,
 Logos in Barcelona, Tufts, Oxford, and Aberdeen.
 Since 2015, Pummer has been collaborating in his work on effective altruism with the Centre for
 Effective Altruism and the Global Priorities Institute, both affiliated with Philosophy at Oxford.


 4.2 RELATIONSHIPS WITH KEY RESEARCH USERS
 Philosophy at St Andrews is committed to making philosophy public, and to communicating as
 widely as possible the importance of the philosophical issues on which we work (ILES, 2.8). Key
 elements of this dimension of our activities are described in detail in our three Impact Case
 Studies, but there are in addition the following kinds of ongoing public engagement and
 knowledge exchange activities on the part of St Andrews philosophers:
 Schools
 We have been cultivating relationships with schools in Scotland since the early 2000s, with the
 aim of using our expertise to help teachers develop effective classroom techniques in
 philosophy.
 In the current REF period, Ball and collaborators in Psychology at St Andrews (with input from
 teachers and pupils from Fife Council schools) created a series of six interactive activities for
 primary pupils linked to detailed lesson plans. This work was funded by an AHRC grant for
 impact and engagement of £53k. The resources have also been modified for delivery in the
 learning centres of two Scottish prisons, Perth and Polmont. Ball was also involved in public
 events aimed in large part at children, including Science Nights at the Zoo and the Fife Science
 Festival.

 Gaut continued to enhance the impact of his 2011 book, Philosophy for Young Children, and
 began work on a new book, Philosophy for Older Children, aimed at children from 9-16 and their
 teachers. A total of 115 enquiries, testing draft material for the latter book, were held in ten
 primary and secondary schools in Scotland. Gaut also gave presentations at five professional
 development events for teachers including two conferences for teachers (2017,2019) and a
 workshop (in 2016).

 In 2018 we established the John Stuart Mill Cup (Mill was Rector of St Andrews 1865-1858).
 This is an annual debating competition for secondary school pupils from around the UK,

                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 intended to promote interest in philosophy as well as to model and foster civil discourse and
 disagreement on matters of public concern. Between 10 and 20 schools compete each year.
 Judges come from within and outwith the University. Financial assistance to enable schools from
 deprived areas to compete is provided by the Department and by the University.
 Members of staff have also made visits to, for example, Glenalmond College in Perth, Braeview
 Academy in Dundee, and Hutcheson's Grammar School in Glasgow. In 2017 we hosted a visit
 for 25 pupils from St Margaret’s Academy in Livingston. Jones has contributed to the SQA's
 review of the Higher Philosophy syllabus and modes of assessment.
 Public lectures
 Many colleagues regularly give lectures and more informal talks in non-academic settings.
 Haldane, notably, has given around 200 public lectures on social, political and religious issues
 since 2014, in the USA, Mexico, Australia, and around Europe and the UK. Among the many
 other examples of our commitment to public engagement: Scharp and Haldane staged a public
 debate on science and religion in St Andrews in 2018, drawing an audience of more than 200;
 the Arché research centre put on lectures on the compatibility of science and religion in the
 same year, and polled the audience as to how the lectures had changed their attitudes on the
 issue; Berto spoke on the logic of conceivability at the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 2019;
 Prosser spoke on time at Café Oto in London in 2015 as part of an experimental music event;
 Pummer has spoken on the ethics of altruism and poverty relief in Australia, Sweden, and
 various venues in the UK; Gaut spoke at the Creativity public workshop, as part of the Being
 Human festival in London in November 2016; Sachs has twice (2015 and 2016) been a panellist
 at the Edinburgh Science Festival, and organised and moderated a panel discussion at the
 Festival in 2018.
 Media activity
 St Andrews philosophers regularly write for magazines and newspapers, and take part in radio
 and TV programmes. Again, Haldane is a notable example, with a very extensive record of
 appearances on media outlets in, especially, the UK, USA, and Australia. Also: Cappelen has
 written op-ed pieces for Norwegian newspaper Morgenbladet; Prosser has written for the OUP
 blog, Pummer has written for Oxford's Practical Ethics Blog, and Hawley blogs for Psychology
 Today; Sattler has appeared on Radio 4's In our Time; part of Berto's ERC is the writing of freely
 and publicly accessible "dissemination papers" on aspects of the "Logic of Conceivability"
 project, available online on The Reasoner; Etinson has written an op-ed piece for The New York
 Times; Etinson and Harris have written reviews and other pieces for The Times Literary
 Supplement. We make regular contributions to The Conversation.
 We have a department Twitter feed, and our research centres are using the internet to engage
 non-academic audiences: Arché has live-streamed seminars and workshops, (enabling anyone
 anywhere to participate), and catalogues them as content on its website; CEPPA has recorded
 short video interviews ("CEPPA Chats") with leading moral and political philosophers, and has
 made them freely available on YouTube and the CEPPA website; Arché is engaged in building a
 YouTube channel to explain present-day philosophy to non-academic audiences.
 Popular books
 A further element of our public engagement strategy is the writing of books aimed at explaining
 philosophical ideas to a general audience. These include Hawley's Trust: A Very Short
 Introduction, Pummer's edited collection on effective altruism in Oxford's Engaging Philosophy
 series, Douglas's The Philosophy of Debt, and Berto and Matteo Plebani's Logica con i Social
 Network [Logic with Social Networks].


 4.3 CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE DISCIPLINE, AND INDICATORS OF RECOGNITION
 4.3.1 Contributions to the discipline
 Members of the Department make a significant contribution to the ongoing sustainability of the
 discipline of philosophy, for example as external examiners of research degrees and external

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 assessors of promotion reviews; as referees for journals, academic presses, and research
 councils; as journal editors; as members of editorial boards and of the management committees
 of learned societies; and as members of research councils. In particular we highlight the
 following instances of service to the larger academic community:
 The Philosophical Quarterly is largely run by members of the department. In 2020 Berto took
 over as Editor from Brown, who had been in post since 2014. Broadie is the Executive Editor
 (responsible for the assessment of referees' reports); Prosser is the Chair of the Management
 Committee (in charge of the journal's finances). Almost all members of the department serve on
 the editorial board, together with a number of philosophers from the other Scottish philosophy
 departments. The journal was ranked among the top ten philosophy journals in both the 2015
 and 2018 iterations of a poll of the profession run by the Leiter Reports blog.
 Brown is Associate Editor (Epistemology) for the Stanford Encyclopaedia of Philosophy. Harris is
 editor of the Edinburgh University Press series Edinburgh Studies in Scottish Philosophy. Gaut
 is editor, with Dominic McIver Lopes, of the Wiley series of scholarly monographs and edited
 collections New Directions in Aesthetics.
 Haldane is President of the Royal Institute of Philosophy. Ball was Chair of the Philosophy of
 Language and Mind Network 2017-2019. Gaut was President of the British Society of Aesthetics
 2012-2018. Since 2016 Etinson has been Director of the American Philosophical Association's
 Society for the Philosophy of Human Rights. Three members of the department (Brown, Hawley,
 and Harris) have served on the AHRC's Peer Review College, Brown and Hawley as Strategic
 Reviewers. Harris and Sattler have served on the Aristotelian Society's Management Committee.
 4.3.2 Indicators of recognition
 Philosophers at St Andrews been invited to give hundreds of conference talks and individual
 lectures since 2014, in dozens of departments around the world. Their work has been the
 subject of numerous "author meets critics" discussions, at conferences and in journals. They
 have been invited to serve on many international grant panels. In particular, we highlight the
 following signs of the esteem in which members of the department are held.
 St Andrews philosophers have been invited to give named lectures and lecture series at
 institutions including Birkbeck College London (Hawley, 2018 Edgington Lectures); Boston
 University (Harris, 2018 Benedict Lectures in the History of Political Philosophy); Columbia
 University (Broadie, 2014 Woodbridge Lectures); University of Connecticut (Cotnoir, 2018
 Grover Annual Lecture); University of Leuven (Berto, 2019 Mercier Honorary Chair);
 University of Italian-Switzerland Lugano (Berto, 2019 Master Classes); New York University
 (Broadie, 2015 Global Distinguished Visiting Professor).
 They have held visiting positions at universities including: Keio University, Tokyo
 (Timmermann, Global Visiting Professor 2014); University of Luxembourg (Timmermann,
 Visiting Professor 2015); University of Vienna (Timmermann, Visiting Professor 2015); New
 York University (Broadie, Global Distinguished Visiting Professor 2015); University College
 London (Broadie, Keeling Fellow 2018); Gakushuin University, Tokyo (Harris, Visiting
 Research Fellow 2018).
 Brown (2018), Harris (2019), and Hawley (2017) were elected Fellows of the Royal Society of
 Edinburgh. Mulgan was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of New Zealand in 2019.
 Hawley was elected a Fellow of the British Academy in 2020. In 2019 Broadie was awarded
 an OBE for services to Classical Philosophy.




                                                                                            Page 14
