Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Newcastle University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA20 – Social Work and Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Social policy research at Newcastle University is motivated by a desire to understand and
 respond to the ways in which policies, regulatory frameworks, professional practices, and human
 behaviours influence the equitable distribution of health and welfare across the life course.

 1.1 Overview: context and structure
 This is the first REF submission that Newcastle University (NU) has made to the Social Work
 and Social Policy Unit of Assessment (UoA20), which reflects several strategic developments
 within the University, in particular an institutional commitment to social justice as a Civic
 University anchored within the North East of England.

 The submission involves an ambitious and impactful programme of interdisciplinary research
 activity relating to the two priority areas of health policy and ageing within the broad field of
 social policy, with further strengths emerging. Our focus on social policy aligns with NU’s
 commitment to conducting research that contributes to meeting the United Nations’ Sustainable
 Development Goals, as well as promoting Social Justice principles across its research and
 education activities.

 Since REF2014, we have undertaken major organisational change, completed only recently, that
 was designed specifically to support and catalyse the University’s research activity in such
 interdisciplinary fields as social policy. Social policy research is carried out within the NU Faculty
 of Medical Sciences (FMS) Population Health Sciences Institute (NUPHSI), which was formed in
 November 2019 during an extensive restructure, aimed at strengthening the Faculty’s vibrant,
 interdisciplinary research activity. Before the restructure, the research that features in this
 submission was conducted within the Institute of Health and Society (IHS). Our research has
 always extended beyond FMS. It is marked by productive collaborations with colleagues in the
 Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences (HaSS), for example through our role in the pan-
 University Institute for Social Science. In the Faculty of Science, Agriculture and Engineering
 (SAgE), our work is informed by and helps to shape the activities of Open Lab, an interaction
 design research group. The FMS commitment to supporting social policy research has led to
 seven new appointments since 2016 and one internal promotion. These appointments ensure
 that we can build on current strengths to increase the unit’s critical mass in the years ahead.

 Our interdisciplinary research and impact activities in social policy seek to understand social
 problems and their impacts at local, regional, national and international level. We have a strong
 commitment to developing evidence in partnership with targeted stakeholders, who can
 influence and change governance and policy-making processes and improve professional
 practice in relation to our areas of focus. This involves active participation in public debates
 aimed at challenging both the structures associated with inequalities and the marginalisation of
 particular social groups and communities. Our commitment to these issues is reflected in the two
 Impact Case Studies (ICS) associated with our submission (Creating national debate and
 informing international policy to address geographical and socio-economic inequalities in health
 and Democratizing water politics, policy, and management to tackle social inequality and
 injustice). It is also exemplified in major contributions to social policy debate, such as work on


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the impact of the “Bedroom Tax”. Research findings from this study received national media
 coverage and were used as evidence in a House of Lords debate on the measure’s health
 impacts.

 As a relatively small submission comprising eight members of staff (7.7FTE), our research is
 necessarily focused on two related and over-lapping themes – health policy and ageing. These
 themes represent significant existing research strengths in IHS/NUPHSI as well as a strategic
 commitment to build NU’s capacity to undertake applied, policy-relevant research of outstanding
 quality that has the potential to be impactful at local, national, and global level. Overall, our aim
 is to develop a unique and internationally distinctive focus orientated towards promoting public
 good. Key achievements towards accomplishing this aim across the REF2021 period include:
 the appointment of seven new colleagues to lead on developing strategies to grow the capacity,
 sustainability, and vitality of the unit; research income of £1.36M; publication of ~120 research
 outputs; and 14 PGR completions.

 1.2 Strategy and achievements
 Our overarching goal is to undertake world-class research on major social issues and to
 translate our findings into changing policy and practice as a means of improving health and
 wellbeing and reducing inequalities. We achieve this through our active engagement with local,
 national, and international partners as well as the global academic community.

 The health policy and ageing research themes are represented by the 19 outputs submitted
 under UoA20, the two accompanying ICS, our people, our postgraduate research students, and
 the broad range of stakeholders we work with.

 Research in health policy focuses on both traditional themes in social policy, such as the
 interdisciplinary area of health inequalities, and on new and emerging questions relating to such
 themes as regulatory science, global health, and global health governance. A hallmark of our
 research is its engagement with highly topical policy areas, including social prescribing, health-
 care privatisation, and social security reforms. Key achievements include contributing evidence
 to public debates on politically sensitive topics, including work on health inequalities (see ICS);
 the merits of enshrining economic and social rights into UK law as human rights; sports injuries;
 the management of the COVID-19 pandemic; and the health and social impacts of such policy
 measures as the Bedroom Tax, social prescribing and Universal Credit.

 Our submission to UoA20 also focuses on inequalities relating to ageing and later life, social
 exclusion of older people, age-friendly cities and communities, and intergenerational relations.
 Key achievements include work on inequalities in later life that has helped to shape the Centre
 for Ageing Better’s strategic planning; outputs that have contributed new knowledge to important
 topics around multidimensional forms of social exclusion; and notable grant successes. Our
 work is a key component of the multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary research on ageing that is
 recognised as a major strength of NU as a whole. Ageing research features strongly in
 submissions to other UoAs in REF2021 (e.g. UoA1, UoA2, UoA13 and UoA21) and has led to
 NU being chosen to host the National Innovation Centre for Ageing (NIC-A). NIC-A represents a
 £40M investment by the UK Government’s Department for Business, Enterprise and Industrial
 Strategy (via a grant administered by the Medical Research Council) and NU, aimed at
 facilitating the commercialisation of key products, services and technologies that help people live
 better, longer lives. NIC-A also includes VOICE (Valuing our Intellectual Capital and Experience)
 – a national and international network of citizens who contribute their insights, experience, ideas
 and vision to identify unmet needs and opportunities, to drive innovation for ageing and improve

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 health research. UoA20 colleagues have informed NIC-A’s strategic focus on inequalities and
 have partnered with NIC-A on funding applications, including to UKRI’s Strength in Places Fund
 and its Healthy Ageing, Social, Behavioural and Design Research Programme (as part of the
 Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund’s Healthy Ageing Challenge).

 Social policy research has benefited considerably from NU’s strategic support. The University’s
 Research Strategy was launched in 2018 after extensive consultation (articulated in REF5a).
 This Strategy seeks to nurture and invest in interdisciplinary, conceptually rich research and
 innovation activity that is recognised as excellent and internationally leading, with the potential to
 shape policy and practice in ways that promote health and wellbeing. Reflecting this strategic
 focus, much of the activity reported here occurs within two recently established Newcastle
 University Centres of Research Excellence (NUCoREs, REF5a 2.2.1). NUCoREs are tasked
 with cutting across NU’s three faculties to promote interdisciplinary research activity of the
 highest quality and scientific rigour. Staff returned to UoA20 play a major role in leading these
 developments, directing or co-directing two NUCoREs: Regulatory Science and Ageing and
 Inequalities (Section 3.2). We also play a leading role in cross-faculty initiatives, bringing
 benefits not only to the unit but also the wider university. For example, we lead the Cities
 NUCoRE’s work on inequality and inclusion and the Health, Wellbeing and Society pathway of
 the ESRC-funded Northern Ireland and North East Doctoral Training Partnership (NINE DTP)
 (Section 2.2).

 Researchers are engaged in a broad range of cross-disciplinary and collaborative research
 activity. Of our returned publications, 26% have authors from other submitting UoAs at NU, 32%
 are co-authored by colleagues from NU; 21% involve national and 42% international co-
 authorship. We have generated £1.36M in external grant income (£176K per head), enabling our
 research to contribute evidence and insights that inform public debates in health policy and
 ageing. Our collaborative approach is exemplified by the two ICS that accompany this
 submission. Colleagues returned to UoA20 are recognised as national and international leaders
 in their fields of expertise, and have given 17 keynote addresses, been involved in numerous
 advisory panels, and held major roles in professional subject associations and learned societies,
 thus contributing to improving the health and wellbeing of our population through social policy.

 Social policy colleagues have benefited from a range of NU schemes that support research and
 engagement activities. These can be accessed by both researchers and PhD students (PGRs)
 to shape new ideas and ensure that research reaches a wider audience. For example, with
 funding of £16,979 from NU’s Institutes for Ageing and for Social Renewal, we collaborated on a
 project that explored solidarity between generations within the context of austerity and Brexit
 (2017-19). Findings were presented at conferences and workshops, and produced a paper
 submitted to Ageing & Society. A grant of £15,000 awarded jointly from NU’s Institute for Ageing,
 Social Renewal and Institute for Sustainability helped us to deepen our links with the
 International Longevity Centre-UK, the UK’s leading think tank on ageing, with whom we had
 previously collaborated on a major review of inequalities in later life. Two policy-facing events
 held in central London ensured that research findings could be accessed by an audience of
 engaged policy stakeholders.

 1.2.1 Health Policy Research Achievements
 Our research in health policy has focused on issues around quality and equality in health policy
 and how politics influences that policy. These concerns are augmented with invited
 commentaries in mainstream medical journals to influence medical decisions directly.
 Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, for example, Pollock has been instrumental in shaping

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 public policy debates, both as a member of Independent SAGE, co-authoring an influential I-
 SAGE report on inequality, and as a source of critique of Government test and trace policy.
 Individual recognition of achievements includes Schrecker’s Faculty of Public Health Service
 Award (2019), his role as Visiting Professor in the Public Health Research Institute and
 Department of Social and Preventive Medicine at the University of Montreal (2018), and as
 editor of the Journal of Public Health (2014-19). Castelli was acknowledged by Emerald
 Publishing Group with a Highly Commended Article in the 2019 Emerald Literati Awards. Pollock
 became Honorary President of the Socialist Health Association pressure group (2017).

 1.2.2 Ageing Research Achievements
 Our ageing research focuses on the opportunities and challenges associated with demographic
 change. A key achievement has been participation in the European Co-operation in Science and
 Technology (COST) Action “Reducing Old-Age Social Exclusion: Collaborations in Research
 and Policy” (ROSEnet), a network involving over 180 researchers from 41 countries in Europe
 and other world regions (2015-20). With Scharf as Vice-Chair and Moffatt as a Management
 Committee member, ROSEnet has generated new knowledge on social exclusion in later life
 through multiple publications and related funding applications (including to the Joint
 Programming Initiative “More Years, Better Lives”). ROSEnet training schools in Helsinki,
 Ljubljana and Swansea have supported the development of PGRs from NU. A scoping review of
 research on social exclusion in later life, co-authored with colleagues from Ireland and Canada,
 has been accessed over 11,000 times and cited over 170 times in Google Scholar. Scharf is
 President of the British Society of Gerontology (2019-22), holds visiting Professorships at Keele
 University (2013 to date) and NUI Galway (2016 to date), and co-edits the Ageing in a Global
 Context book series (Policy Press, 2013 to date).

 1.3 Open Access and Research Integrity
 Wide dissemination of both research outputs and data is paramount to our aim of evidence-
 informed policy. Colleagues are supported by Research Data Managers to develop data
 management plans to ensure timely data sharing, including making use of the NU Research
 Data Repository. The University’s e-Prints repository ensures research outputs are made Green
 Open Access, with RCUK/UKRI and COAF funds augmented by Faculty and NUPHSI to
 increase Gold Open Access.

 NU is a signatory of the Concordat for Research Integrity (REF5a 2.3.2), with research activities
 in UoA20 emphasising the importance of maintaining and deepening public trust in science,
 especially within the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. We benefit from NU’s membership of
 the UK Reproducibility Network; we maintain policies and procedures compliant with the
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity; we subscribe to UKRIO; and we are members of the
 Russell Group’s Research Integrity Forum. The methodological expertise in NUPHSI, combined
 with the critical input into study design and statistical rigour provided by the NIHR Research
 Design Service NENC, contributes to overall research reproducibility and integrity. Our work is
 aligned to themes of the Responsible Research and Innovation approach relating to public
 engagement, open access, gender, ethics, and science education.

 1.4 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact
 As an emerging area of research strength at NU, our future strategy for 2021-2026 is to sustain
 and develop an environment that nurtures research of the highest quality, which has impacts
 ranging from local to global, and which shapes public and scientific debates relating to the core
 social policy themes of health policy and ageing.


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Objective                              Key actions (2021-2026)
  Pursue research and increase           1) Increase our involvement and successes in
  research capacity in our areas of         interdisciplinary collaborative funding calls in the UK
  social policy focus.                      and internationally.
                                         2) Appointment of NUAcTs (REF5a 3.2.4) to increase
                                            our future research leader capacity and to help
                                            progress our contribution to the fields of health
                                            policy and ageing.
                                         3) Increase the number of PGRs and early career
                                            researchers to build capacity and sustainability in
                                            social policy research and increase external grant
                                            income.
                                         4) Secure appointment of and ensure personal
                                            development of Professional Services staff to build
                                            capacity.
  Sustain and build on our strong        1) Build on, diversify, and deepen our external
  partnerships with policy                  partnerships directed towards policy and practice.
  stakeholders and with community,       2) Actively seek out opportunities for secondments
  cultural, public, and private sector      with policy partners to ensure that public policy
  organisations at local, regional,         concerns are embedded in our research priorities.
  national, and international level to   3) Ensure researchers at all career stages are
  ensure that our research continues        supported and encouraged to embed impact and
  to be co-designed, co-produced,           engagement into all stages of the research lifecycle,
  and of maximum benefit to diverse         including through the Policy, Skills, Enterprise and
  stakeholders.                             Global Challenges Academies (see REF5a 2.2.5).
  Enhance our internal and external      1) Map the current impact activities of colleagues to
  collaborations to support impact          identify synergies and themes to pursue and
  development and activity.                 support.
                                         2) Create events, opportunities, and dialogue with
                                            current and future impact collaborators to facilitate
                                            joint working.
  Mirror the research values and         1) Colleagues will continue to be involved in leading
  priorities articulated in the             NUCoRE developments relating to our expertise in
  University’s Research Strategy            health inequalities, social policy innovations, and
  2018.                                     inequalities and ageing.
                                         2) Draw exceptional early career talent into the subject
                                            area via the NUAcT Scheme (REF5a 3.2.4) and
                                            ESRC New Investigator Awards.
  Health policy research                 1) Strengthen collaborations with national and
                                            international stakeholders to inform debate on major
                                            health policy issues.
                                         2) Build the research evidence base to influence
                                            health and social policy development in different UK
                                            nations.
  Ageing research                        1) Become recognised as national leaders in research
                                            on ageing and inequalities.
                                         2) Collaborate with NIC-A and VOICE to ensure that
                                            the theme of unequal ageing is prioritised in work on
                                            ageing and innovation.


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 2.1 People profile
 Our unit comprises eight colleagues (7.7FTE) all of whom are on permanent contracts.
 Reflecting the University’s commitment to recruiting staff to build our social policy profile, the
 staff group includes recognised leaders in the fields of health policy and ageing. Four colleagues
 are Professors, two are senior lecturers, one is a lecturer, and one a Principal Research
 Associate. Two of the eight submitted staff (25%) are female, both holding professorships.

 During the REF2021 period, two colleagues (Lingam and Rapley) left the unit to take up senior
 positions at other institutions. Rapley was Senior Lecturer in Medical Sociology (until 2017) and
 moved to become Professor of Applied Health Care Research, Northumbria University. Lingam
 has progressed from Clinical Senior Lecturer in Epidemiology and Child Health at NU (until
 2018) to take up the role of Professor in Paediatric Population Health, University of New South
 Wales, Australia. Both leavers have retained honorary roles at NU, ensuring that the unit, its
 PGRs, and early career researchers can continue to benefit from their mentorship and networks.

 2.2 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Newcastle University’s strategic plan aims to provide a research environment that is attractive to
 new researchers, supports and nurtures researchers at all career stages, creates leaders for the
 future, and provides strong and effective mentorship. NU’s strategic commitment to developing
 its strengths in social policy, especially in relation to health policy and ageing, is evident in key
 appointments during the REF2021 period and in investments that support the career
 development of existing staff.

 Seven of the eight members of staff submitted to UoA20 have been appointed since 2014. Three
 colleagues (Schrecker, Castelli, Booth) joined the University as part of a strategic transfer of the
 School of Medicine, Pharmacy and Health from Durham University in 2017 (on Transfer of
 Undertakings [Protection of Employment] terms), with four further external appointments (Millard,
 Pollock, Roderick, Scharf). The staff transferred from Durham University, as well as the new
 appointments, have substantially strengthened our focus in the areas of health policy and
 ageing, with three colleagues having been appointed to professorships since 2016 (Scharf,
 Pollock, Schrecker). Reflecting the University’s commitment to investing in staff based on their
 performance in research, teaching and citizenship activities, the single member of staff who has
 been employed by NU for the entire REF2021 period (Moffatt) was promoted from Senior
 Lecturer to Reader (2017) and subsequently to Professor (2020). This promotion acknowledges
 major achievements in terms of the conduct of impactful research in social policy at the
 intersection of health policy and ageing. It also reflects the value of a research environment that
 provides access to peer support and mentorship.

 Staff submitted to UoA20 have been recruited to a range of posts over the REF2021 period.
 Staff recruitment processes concentrate on matching our research priorities, responding to gaps
 in teaching expertise where appropriate, and ensuring they are EDI appropriate. For all posts,
 applicants are asked to address how their work would support the FMS areas of research
 expertise within its Institutes, research themes, and cross-faculty NUCoREs, as well as
 University-wide areas of research focus. Staff recruited to support NU’s investment in social
 policy research play a key role in promoting interdisciplinary ways of working. Recruitment
 materials consequently emphasise the importance of collaborations with researchers in HaSS
 and SAgE. Senior posts in particular have a strong focus on capacity for income generation and
 research leadership skills. Application information stresses our commitment to EDI and career

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 progression, for example by use of non-biased language in recruitment information and an
 emphasis on opportunities to work flexibly. Recruitment committees are always gender- and
 career-balanced, with all committee members being required to undergo diversity and
 unconscious bias training before being eligible to join recruitment panels. Shortlisted candidates
 for chairs provide a presentation to all colleagues, including PGRs, and colleagues’ feedback is
 incorporated into the selection panel’s considerations. Newly appointed staff benefit from a
 tailored induction process and have access to a range of career development supports, including
 annual progress reviews, training programmes, promotion support, a returners’ programme, and
 flexible retirement opportunities.

 With recognised research leaders in place, and support and mentorship provided to scholars at
 earlier stages of their professional development, we anticipate a growth in NU’s position as a site
 for applied research in social policy. This will occur through the targeted recruitment of NUAcTs
 linked to the two NUCoREs that act as a central focus for our work (NUCoRE for Regulatory
 Science and NUCoRE for Ageing and Inequalities). In addition to these core University posts, we
 plan strategic grant applications to sustain the NUCoREs’ work, and to recruit early career
 researchers who can build our capacity to undertake research and innovation activities in our
 areas of social policy strength.

 Submitted staff are actively involved in supervision of 18 PGRs working in the fields of health
 policy and ageing. Supervision teams typically involve two or three research-active staff, who
 have substantive and methodological skills relevant to the programme of research being
 pursued by PGRs. NU has well-established procedures aimed at supporting the training and
 development of research supervisors, with designated lead supervisors required to co-supervise
 at least one PGR to completion before being eligible to take on this role.

 Reflecting our focus on interdisciplinarity, submitted staff are also involved in co-supervision of
 PGRs across the wider University. For example, Scharf co-supervises an EPSRC-funded
 student, based in the School of Computing, whose work is on digital participation of older
 people; an ESRC-funded student, based in Geography, Politics and Sociology, whose work
 addresses informal care of persons with dementia in rural areas; and an ESRC-funded student,
 based in NUPHSI, whose work is on hospital discharge of persons with dementia. We are also
 involved in co-supervising students across UK universities. For example, Moffatt co-supervises
 with colleagues at Northumbria University a PhD student funded by the NIHR School for Public
 Health Research whose work explores the impact of Universal Credit on claimants and service
 providers in a North East local authority.

 Staff are also involved in supporting PGRs across the University via progression panel
 membership and other institutional roles. Scharf is NU institutional lead for the Health, Wellbeing
 and Society pathway of NINE DTP, a role previously held by Moffatt. Funded by ESRC, with
 support from the Department for the Economy Northern Ireland, NINE DTP is a collaboration
 between seven HEIs across Northern Ireland and the North East of England. It seeks to recruit
 outstanding students into a programme of doctoral studies, offering multiple opportunities to
 develop core research skills in a highly supportive research and training environment.

 2.3 Research students

 Since most staff returned to UoA20 joined NU during the REF2021 period, the number of PGR
 students associated with this submission is relatively small. However, PGR numbers are growing
 quickly and there have been notable successes in PGR recruitment and PhD awards. Currently,

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 18 PGRs are registered and being supervised or co-supervised by staff returned to UoA20. This
 includes 16 full-time and 2 part-time, 10 home and 8 international students. Over the course of
 the assessment period, 14 PhDs have been awarded at the intersection of health policy and
 ageing. PGR students benefit from supervisory teams that have the necessary subject area
 expertise and methodological skills to support what are often interdisciplinary projects, and
 which therefore extend beyond UoA20. Most students are funded from individual external
 studentships, including UKRI/NIHR and Wellcome Trust studentships, and seven were funded
 through the ESRC NINE DTP and its predecessor, the North East Doctoral Training Centre. We
 also co-supervise two students within the EPSRC Digital Civics CDT located in the School of
 Computing.

 Within the context of research themes and NUCoREs, PGRs are contributing to building and
 sustaining an active research culture. Levels of student satisfaction are comparable to or higher
 than those across the whole sector, according to successive Postgraduate Research Experience
 Surveys (PRES) (REF5a 3.2.2), with an upward trajectory. Levels of agreement among
 IHS/NUPHSI students with the statement “Overall, I am satisfied with the experience of my
 research degree” were 80% in 2015, 87% in 2017 and 91% in 2019.

 Studentships are advertised widely and awarded in open competition. Candidates are shortlisted
 against explicit criteria (including academic achievement), with shortlisted individuals being
 interviewed by a panel of at least two selectors. Speculative applications from candidates
 meeting academic entry criteria are reviewed by the PGR lead to identify potential supervisors
 whose research interests match the candidate’s. Where appropriate, including applications
 submitted through the NINE DTP scheme, we seek to diversify our PGR pool through support for
 under-represented groups.

 Formal supervisory meetings (recorded on the E-Portfolio system) take place at least monthly.
 Annual Progress Review meetings with two other colleagues from related areas offer
 independent advice to PGRs. The FMS Graduate School ensures that issues, such as requests
 for Interruption of Studies, changes in supervision, and personal extenuating circumstances, are
 dealt with sympathetically and equitably. A dedicated role of Postgraduate Student Coordinator,
 held by a senior colleague in NUPHSI, ensures a vibrant PGR research community and supports
 both students and supervisors. PGRs have access to desk space and computer equipment
 throughout their PhD study period, including write up. In the 2019 PRES, 97% of respondents
 said their supervisors “have the skills and subject knowledge to support my research” (against
 89% for the sector). Ratings for “My supervisors provide feedback that helps me direct my
 research activity” have consistently exceeded 90% in successive PRESs.

 PGRs can access subject-specific and generic skills training through the FMS Postgraduate
 Training programme, which aligns with the Vitae Researcher Development Framework (REF5a
 3.2.3), and can also attend modules from Masters courses. PGRs access training beyond their
 FMS postgraduate training via the Policy Academy, Media Skills groups and other faculties.
 PGRs are aligned to research themes, including to themes in other Faculties where this is
 relevant to their projects, and are encouraged to present their work at monthly research
 discussion forums, annual research days, and NINE DTP student conferences. An active PGR
 student support group run by the students meets bi-monthly, with presentations on topics such
 as Writing Your Thesis, Preparing for Your Viva, and Stress Management. New students are
 allocated a “buddy”, an established PGR student who can introduce them to colleagues, assist in
 navigating university systems, and provide general peer support. Final-year PGRs have a


                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 “writing up buddy”, typically a recent NU post-doc colleague, to assist thesis submission and viva
 preparation.

 The FMS Broadening our Horizons scheme (Section 2.4) is open to PGRs and shows the
 importance of research dissemination and the fostering of external collaborations (including with
 Industry). Our students are heavily involved with both the organisation of and participation in the
 North East Postgraduate Conference (one of the largest such conferences in the UK with >600
 registrants each year), which is largely supported by UKRI DTP sponsorship to allow free
 participation to all PGR students in the North of England. It was ahead of its time in offering a
 full-time crèche to participants since 2018. PGRs are eligible for the University-wide student
 hardship fund (see REF5a). The FMS Graduate School also offers a post-submission
 scholarship which supports talented research students financially with up to three months of
 additional stipend after the submission of their thesis or final dissertation. Awards are made in
 the categories of academic development, enterprise, and internships.

 2.4 Equality, diversity and inclusion

 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) are central features of the research activity undertaken in
 UoA20, for example around universal access to health care, welfare entitlements, and age-
 based inequalities. More importantly, they are a hallmark of the research environment in
 NUPHSI, the wider Faculty, and NU as a whole. In 2011, IHS was awarded a Silver Athena
 SWAN award, renewed in 2017 and consolidated in 2019 across FMS. The commitment to EDI
 is reflected not only in the thematic areas of research submitted to UoA20 but is embedded
 within the unit’s approach to pursuing social justice in health policy and ageing.

 We promote EDI principles in our staffing strategy and development, providing a positive
 working structure with EDI at its heart. Since 2014, one colleague has been promoted from
 Senior Lecturer to Reader and subsequently to Chair (Moffatt). Individuals wishing to be
 promoted (and those nominated by line managers) are encouraged to submit their paperwork to
 an internal panel which provides assistance in framing their applications. This panel does not
 halt any applications, but rather provides advice and support. Colleagues have also benefited
 from flexible working arrangements, with one member of staff taking the opportunity to reduce
 their working hours from full time to 0.8FTE and subsequently 0.7FTE. In this submission, two
 women and two men hold leadership roles as chairs. Part-time and flexible working during the
 REF period has been encouraged, including the use of term-time working, compressed working
 hours and working from home. Meetings are arranged on a flexible calendar around core
 working hours only. Across FMS we have robust policies to support staff and PGR students to
 return to work following any period of extended leave (e.g. maternity leave, long-term illness),
 and personalised measures are in place to support individuals.

 Our Small Grant Scheme and the former IHS support fund provide funding to researchers
 requiring pump priming in support of a grant application, for which other funds are not available.
 During this REF period, and in accordance with the focus on career development, most of this
 funding supported collecting preliminary data for early career researchers, with two researchers
 benefiting. The Broadening our Horizons scheme supports and celebrates the contribution of
 post-doctoral researchers and PGR students by allowing them to present their work at
 conferences and visit other research groups (or policy makers/industry) nationally and
 internationally, as well as funding travel, accommodation, and any childcare costs to support
 attendance. Consequently, students gain new techniques or mentoring and thereby raise their


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 profile and that of NU internationally. During REF2021, six researchers and PGRs benefited
 from this scheme.

 Excellent performance is formally recognised via our annual promotion round, a fully open
 process which allows all academics to submit their own case for promotion. In line with the NU
 commitment to the Declaration on Research Assessment which we signed in 2018 (described in
 REF5a), we do not use journal impact factors for promotion or evaluation. Achievements are
 judged solely according to quality evaluations not traditional journal names or non-contextual
 citation metrics.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research income
 Research submitted to UoA20 has been supported by funding awards from numerous bodies,
 including the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR), UKRI (with awards from EPSRC and
 MRC), Innovate UK and Public Health England. Colleagues have also benefited from access to
 European funding for research networking over the assessment period, including through COST
 (Section 1.2). The applied nature of our research in health policy and ageing has opened up
 additional funding opportunities through government agencies, such as the Cabinet Office, and
 national and local charities, including the Centre for Ageing Better, Arts Council National Lottery
 fund, and Age UK County Durham. These awards are indicative of the strategic interest of
 funding organisations in our areas of research strength at local, national, and global scale.

 Reflecting the highly collaborative nature of research conducted across the themes of health
 policy and ageing, most awards require interdisciplinary research teams. Collaborative awards
 involve teams based at NU as well as inter-institutional collaborations with colleagues from other
 organisations in the UK and internationally. Collaborations within NU involve researchers located
 across all three faculties and, further emphasising the interdisciplinary nature of our research,
 colleagues returned to other UoAs (e.g. UoA2, UoA11, UoA13, UoA21, and UoA28).

 Over the REF2021 period, acting as either Principal Investigators or Co-Investigators,
 colleagues have generated £1.36M in external grant income (£176K per head) and received
 £2.07M in new awards spread across 19 grants. Examples of awards led from UoA20 that
 correspond to our research strengths include: funding under the NIHR Public Health Research
 Programme to assess the impact of a community social prescribing intervention on people with
 type 2 diabetes living in an ethnically diverse area of high socio-economic deprivation (£553,858,
 2018-21); from the Cabinet Office to evaluate the Ways to Wellness Social Impact Bond
 (£99,813, 2015-17): and from the Centre for Ageing Better to conduct a scoping review on
 inequalities in later life (£24,775, 2016-17). As Co-Investigators, colleagues have been involved
 in awards ranging in value but indicative of our interdisciplinary and applied approach to
 research in social policy and our wide-ranging methodological skills. Examples include awards
 from EPSRC for the Centre for Digital Citizens (£3.7M, 2020-25); Innovate UK to support a
 Knowledge Transfer Partnership with Hanover Housing Association aimed at transforming older
 people’s quality of life through home-based digital innovation (£116,419, 2018-20); Age UK
 County Durham to evaluate its Come Eat Together programme (£21,627, 2017-19); and the Arts
 Council National Lottery fund to support a collaboration with the Cap-a-Pie Theatre Company
 (£14,834 2019-20).




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 The expanding remit of researchers based in IHS (now NUPHSI) has meant a substantial new
 investment to repurpose offices in the Sir James Spence Institute. Housing most of the staff
 submitted to UoA20, this facilitates cross-pollination of ideas, including with collaborators in the
 nearby HaSS Faculty. Our researchers also benefit from close proximity to the award-winning
 Helix site, where the Catalyst Building houses NIC-A, the National Innovation Centre in Data and
 the NIHR Innovation Observatory, and where the Urban Sciences Building accommodates
 colleagues in Open Lab’s interaction design research group (REF5a 4.2.1). The Catalyst co-
 locates researchers and industry to enable fast implementation of research into industrial
 collaborations. It also accommodates VOICE, an NIHR-funded organisation that feeds citizens’
 knowledge and experiences into research at all levels. Over the REF2021 period, VOICE has
 expanded from a local organisation to a global entity.

 The NUCoRE in Regulatory Science (approved in June 2019; co-directed by Pollock) is the UK’s
 first such centre. The Centre grew out of the shared concern of researchers in NU’s three
 faculties about the societal and public health implications of rapid advances in medical therapies
 and technologies, and the need to address the associated scientific challenges. To ensure that
 developments and innovations in medicine, biomedicine, biotechnology, and other biosciences
 benefit the health and wealth of society, it is vital that they are assessed through the lens of the
 keenest scientific practice and ethical and critical thinking. Acting as a focal point for regulators,
 industry, clinicians, patients, academics, students, and the public, and by deepening
 understanding of safety, effectiveness, and value of medicines and devices, the Centre aims to
 contribute to the development of regulatory policy in the UK and internationally.

 The NUCoRE in Ageing and Inequalities (approved in April 2020; co-directed by Scharf) builds
 on NU’s internationally recognised interdisciplinary strengths in research on ageing to focus on
 the key challenges associated with unequal ageing. Drawing together researchers from the
 University’s three faculties, including expertise in the social sciences, health and medical
 sciences, arts and humanities, and human-computer interaction, the Centre seeks to
 understand, predict and mitigate unequal ageing with the aim of improving the health and
 wellbeing of older people in the UK and internationally. With growing evidence of widening
 inequalities in later life, the Centre’s focus is on the circumstances of marginalised populations
 and the impact of inequality on the lives of older individuals who are left behind. The Centre aims
 to refine the understanding and conceptualisation of inequality in a globalised society to enable
 and investigate real-world interventions that can be applied, where appropriate, to reduce and
 eliminate inequalities wherever they occur.

 3.2.1 Supporting infrastructure for impact (including cross-HEI infrastructure)
 We have a highly successful and dynamic environment to support influencing health policy,
 interdisciplinary research on ageing, and implementing research with community involvement.
 NUPHSI academics currently lead various national initiatives with policy makers and other
 collaborating stakeholders. They provide access to a wide network of colleagues and
 beneficiaries of our research, and as such inform and support our research. This enables direct
 links with key health and social policy stakeholders for seamless uptake of research ideas, whilst
 providing real-life opportunities to inspire and educate our PGRs and therefore enhance their
 career prospects in a competitive market.

 NIHR Applied Research Collaboration North East and North Cumbria (ARCNENC): this
 regional research and implementation initiative combines 12 CCGs, 10 acute and three


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 specialist trusts, one ambulance trust, two medical schools, two pharmacy schools, six HEIs,
 and 13 local authorities (with UoA20 colleagues involved on health policy and ageing).

 NIHR School of Public Health Research (SPHR): is funded to increase the evidence base for
 cost-effective public health practice. Regionally implemented as Fuse (Centre for Translational
 Research in Public Health, UKCRC-funded 2008-2018) and providing opportunities for
 researchers to be involved in both health policy and ageing research, the School has shared
 communication and knowledge exchange functions across five North-East HEIs. Fuse offers
 Quarterly Research Meetings, seminars and other events, including a biannual international
 knowledge exchange conference. These are all co-produced with practice and open across the
 five HEIs through its network of 1,400 members (with UoA20 colleagues involved in health policy
 and ageing).

 NIHR School of Primary Care Research (SPCR): is funded to increase academic primary care
 research and develop capacity. Its grant scheme has supported interdisciplinary research by
 staff returned to UoA20 in collaboration with colleagues submitted to other UoAs.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our unit is motivated by a desire to understand and respond to the ways in which policies,
 regulatory frameworks, professional practices, and human behaviours influence the equitable
 distribution of health and welfare across the life course. In this context, and as evidenced by our
 outputs and research income, collaborations with multiple stakeholders drawn from academia,
 policy, practice, and civil society represent a central feature of the unit’s research and impact
 activity. Such collaborations enable us to make a powerful contribution to the research base,
 economy, and society.

 4.1 Collaborations
 Since 2014, we have held interdisciplinary research grants with researchers in all NU faculties
 and with other UK universities and think tanks. Examples include partnerships with Durham
 University to explore social prescribing programmes; with Swansea, Northumbria and Bangor
 Universities to evaluate group-based courses that provide psychological and emotional support
 for later life transitions; and with the International Longevity Centre-UK to review evidence on
 inequalities in later life. The extensive nature of our collaborations is further evidenced by joint
 writing activities. Of the 19 outputs returned to UoA20, 18 involved co-authorship: 10 were co-
 authored with colleagues from UK universities (six with NU co-authors; four with co-authors from
 other UK HEIs) and eight with colleagues from beyond the UK.

 We have been part of a range of national and international collaborations. In health policy,
 Castelli belongs to the European Health Policy Group and is a member of the International
 Department of the Italian Association of Medical Managers. Reflecting his work in global health,
 Millard is a member of the International Association for the Study of Traditional Asian Medicine,
 the International Association of Tibetan Studies, and the International Society of Global Health.
 Moffatt was invited to the inaugural meeting of the Health Justice Partnership, involving
 international experts in evaluation research, to articulate and prioritise the health justice research
 agenda, and develop innovative, transferable evaluation methods that support rapid translation
 and policy implementation.




                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In ageing, reflecting a research focus on social exclusion and inclusion in later life, Scharf and
 Moffatt were active participants in the ROSEnet COST Action (Section 1.2). ROSEnet has been
 notable in its engagement with multiple stakeholders, including representatives of AGE Platform
 Europe, HelpAge International and an Older Adult Reference Group made up of older people
 recruited to help shape the Action and its outputs. ROSEnet succeeded in engaging
 researchers, policy makers, and practitioners in debates around social exclusion: the Action’s
 final conference (March 2020), co-organised by the European Committee of the Regions,
 published a roadmap for combatting social exclusion in later life. Further collaborations involve
 major social policy actors, such as national housing providers and age-sector charities. For
 example, a UKRI-funded Knowledge Transfer Partnership explored home-based digital
 innovations aimed at enhancing the wellbeing of older people living in Anchor Hanover housing
 schemes.

 4.2 Contributions to the research base, economy and society
 Staff submitted to UoA20 have contributed to the field of social policy through their leadership
 positions in key professional subject associations and learned societies. In the field of health
 policy, Pollock was a member of the Council of the British Medical Association (2014-18), the
 International committee of the British Medical Association (2014-18), the Public Health
 committee of the British Medical Association (2014-18) and the Epidemiology & Public Health
 Section of the Royal Society of Medicine. She was also a member of Independent SAGE during
 the COVID-19 pandemic (May to September 2020). In relation to ageing, Scharf is President of
 the British Society of Gerontology (2019-22). Moffatt was previously a member of the Executive
 Committee of the British Society of Gerontology (2009-15). During the REF2021 period, Scharf
 was a member of the National Executive Committee of the Irish Gerontological Society (2013-
 15) and was Chair of the academic advisory groups of the NIHR/ESRC-funded Neighbourhoods
 and Dementia project (2014-19) and the ESRC-funded Diversity In Care Environments project
 (2019-22).

 Keynote addresses
 As recognised leaders in their areas of expertise, staff submitted to UoA20 have given 17
 keynote addresses over the REF2021 period. In health policy, this includes addresses to the
 British Maternal & Foetal Medicine Society, The Neonatal Society & The British Association of
 Perinatal Medicine (Perinatal Medicine Conference, 2014), the Centro Latinoamericano de
 Administración para el Desarrollo (XX Congreso Internacional, 2015), the British Sociological
 Association (Annual Cost of Living Symposium address, Medical Sociology Conference, 2016),
 the Irish Medical Organisation (AGM, Sligo, 2016), the UK Spine Societies Board (BritSpine
 2016), the Community Practitioner and Health Visitors Association (Annual Conference 2016),
 the Centre for Arctic and Global Health and Norwegian Forum for Global Health Research,
 University of Tromsø (Symposium on Exploring Global Health in the Artic 2018), Research
 Network 16 (Sociology of Health and Illness), the European Sociological Association (Mid-term
 conference 2018), the Association of British Clinical Diabetologists (1st John Wales Memorial
 lecture 2018), and the UK & Irish Neonatal Society (David Harvey Senior Fellowship Lecture,
 Dublin, 2018).

 In ageing, keynote addresses have been given at the Canadian Association on Gerontology
 (44th Annual Scientific and Educational Meeting, 2015), the German Society for Sociology
 (Section Ageing and Society, 2016), the Finnish Gerontological Society (Finnish Congress on
 Gerontology & Geriatrics, 2017), the Irish Gerontological Society (Annual and Scientific Meeting,
 2017), EURORURAL 2018 (Mendel University, 2018) and the Research Network on Ageing in
 Europe (RN01) of the European Sociological Association (4th Midterm Conference, 2018). A

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 keynote address to the European Geriatric Medicine Society (16th Annual Congress) scheduled
 for 2020 has been rescheduled to 2021.

 Editorial positions and Editorial Board membership
 Colleagues have been involved in a range of editorial activities over the REF2021 period. This
 includes positions relating to 1) health policy: Schrecker was co-editor of the Journal of Public
 Health (2014-19), has been Associate Editor [globalisation] of the Journal of Bioethical Inquiry
 since 2014, and is a member of the editorial board of Critical Public Health; Pollock has been on
 the editorial board of BioMedCentral Health Services Research, Chronic Illness and the Journal
 of Medical Ethics; and Moffatt has been Book Reviews Editor for the Journal of Health and
 Social Theory since 2013; and 2) to ageing: Moffatt was Editorial Board member for Ageing &
 Society 2012-18; and Scharf has been a member of the editorial board of the Journal of Aging
 and Environment since 2015.

 External examiner roles
 Reflecting their status as international leaders in their areas of scientific expertise, staff returned
 to UoA20 have externally examined 11 PhD theses and one MPhil thesis at universities in the
 UK and internationally over the REF2021 period. This includes examining PhD theses at the
 Universities of Alberta, Maynooth, Montreal, Oslo, Sydney, Toronto, and Vienna, as well as the
 Universities of Sheffield and York (on two occasions) and the London School of Hygiene and
 Tropical Medicine.

 Membership of research council, national or international funding bodies and panels
 Over the REF2021 period, our staff have contributed to a range of citizenship activities aimed at
 supporting social policy research in the UK and internationally. For example, Scharf has been a
 member of the Scientific Board of the German Ageing Survey (2011 to date). Schrecker has
 been a member of the Independent Panel on Global Governance for Health, University of Oslo
 (2014-18), the Advisory Panel for the Independent Panel on Global Governance for Health,
 University of Oslo (2018 to date), and the External Advisory Group, Prevention of Disease Using
 Trade Agreements Network (2020 to date). Pollock has been a member of Committee B, NICE
 Technology Appraisals Committee (2018 to date), and Moffatt was a member of the Advisory
 Board of the Bath University Cremation and Grief Project (2017-20).

 Other citizenship roles
 Staff returned to UoA20 are engaged in a range of other roles that contribute to the research
 base, economy, and society. In addition to visiting positions at universities in the UK and
 internationally, we are active in collaborations that stimulate new ideas and make the most of
 opportunities to influence public debates on health policy and ageing. Work of national
 significance includes our collaboration with Gateshead City Council, Citizens Advice Gateshead
 and the voluntary and community sectors in Gateshead to study the impact of Universal Credit
 on health and wellbeing (2018-20). This collaboration led to Newcastle’s successful bid to host
 Professor Philip Alston, United Nations Special Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human
 rights, during his two-week visit to the UK (2018). Research findings were cited in Professor
 Alston’s Report to the Human Rights Council of the United Nations General Assembly (2019),
 leading to wide-ranging media coverage of the research report. A subsequent award to NU of
 £42,366 from external and internal sources allowed dissemination of, and engagement with,
 creative methods to extend debate, understanding, and practice related to roll-out of Universal
 Credit. The research was used as evidence in a House of Lords enquiry into the impact of
 Universal Credit. The findings also sparked the creative arts: the Cap-a-Pie Theatre Company


                                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 wrote a play based on these findings and although a planned performance of “Credit” was
 postponed due to COVID-19, rehearsed readings were live streamed in 2020.

 In addition to prominent contributions to national debates, returned staff have also collaborated
 successfully with local and regional organisations. For example, work with the winners of the
 Research Ideas in the Third Age (RITA) group led to a co-produced piece of action research into
 reasons for non-participation in the University of the Third Age (U3A). This work was published
 in Ageing & Society, presented at the British Society of Gerontology annual conference, and
 informed the re-establishment of research as a core activity on the U3A national executive.
 Submitted staff also play a role in local organisations, with Scharf serving as Chair of the Age
 Friendly City group in Newcastle, and working with local charities and CCGs to inform
 understanding of isolation and loneliness in later life.

 Public engagement activities during COVID-19
 During the COVID-19 pandemic, colleagues returned to UoA20 have played a lead role in
 shaping public debates around health policy and ageing. For example, Pollock contributed to the
 work of Independent SAGE (May to September 2020), co-authored numerous editorials to major
 health journals, and served as a regular contributor to print, radio and television media. In
 ageing, Scharf was involved in challenging age-based stereotypes in policy and media debates,
 including through a Lancet Voice podcast, an INSIGHTS public lecture (with over 1,900 views on
 YouTube), and multiple contributions to the British Society of Gerontology’s activity on COVID-
 19.




                                                                                           Page 15
