Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of St Andrews

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 22: Anthropology and Development Studies
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 St Andrews has a distinct reputation as a world-leading centre for anthropological training, early
 career development and outreach with specific thematic, regional and interdisciplinary strengths.
 Since 2014, we doubled our publication of leading scholarship; grew our research community by
 one third; quadrupled our research income; doubled research student graduations; intensified
 international collaborations; and expanded impacts with new communities. In doing so we
 maintained our position at the top of The Guardian rankings (1st in 2014, 2nd in 2020).

 Our integrated strategy since REF2014 has been: to increase the value, range and reach of our
 research outputs and impact activities through a marked expansion in grant income; to grow our
 community of tenured, postdoctoral and postgraduate colleagues; to embed our collegial
 research culture with flexible and agile supports so everyone can thrive and diverse
 contributions are recognised; to incentivise emerging strengths and successes while investing in
 established fields of leadership; to cultivate a shared commitment to equality, inclusivity, integrity
 and ethical engagement; overall, to extend our influence within and between disciplines, and
 working with our user-communities beyond the academy through national and international
 collaborations.

 Anthropology’s profile has been transformed into a bigger, more youthful, diverse, gender
 balanced, collegiate and socially engaged community of researchers: we can showcase
 internationally recognised field-leaders at all stages in the profession, wide-ranging transnational
 partnerships, globally leading journal editorships, and headship of professional bodies. We have
 achieved this by:

    •   Generating outstanding and diverse research. We have increased the number,
        quality, influence, interdisciplinarity and open accessibility of our research outputs across
        diverse authorship models and publishing platforms.

 We have doubled our REF2014 publication figures, with 17 single-authored monographs, 21
 edited books, 82 chapters and 146 journal articles. Monograph subjects include love, deep time,
 African elites and a colonial officer, Mongolian gold rush, economic crisis in Greece, Latin
 American domestic and sex workers in London, Andean ethnohistory, zoonotic diseases and
 epidemic control, Greek community in Italy, and cosmopolitanism. Co-authored monographs
 include Knight on The Anthropology of the Future and Gay y Blasco’s experimental collaboration
 with a Roma research participant, Writing Friendship.

 Journal articles were published in JRAI (including Wardle’s Dunne Prize essay and High’s and
 Reed’s two Special Issues), American Ethnologist, Ethnos, History and Anthropology,
 Anthropological Quarterly, Social Anthropology, Signs, Africa, PMLA (Reed on literary
 characterisation), Current Anthropology, American Anthropologist, and Ethnohistory. Lynteris’ 5
 interdisciplinary Special Issues were published by Medical Anthropology, Visual Anthropology,
 Social Analysis, Medicine Anthropology Theory and Visual Anthropology Review.

 Edited volume subjects include beauty, material culture, epidemics and disease vectors,
 freedom, imagination, the Enlightenment, energy ethics, Pacific climate change and
 cosmopolitics. As detailed in our ICS, we have published European Union policy reports on
 Pacific gender inequality. We have an active online scholarly presence including Lynteris’ three
 curated COVID-19 forums for Somatosphere.




                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Supporting ambitious new research and impact projects with grant funding and
        leave. We have quadrupled our grant capture success and 5-year HESA average
        income from funding sources across the spectrum of gearing to the impact agenda.

 We have more than quadrupled research awards in this REF cycle to £4,661,906, up from
 £1,074,174 in REF2014. Similarly, our HESA reported 5-year average research income has
 quadrupled to £400,285 in REF2021, from £91,263 in REF2014. More than two-thirds of our
 Category A staff secured at least one funding award from more than 25 UK, EU and international
 sources, and private foundations. This transformational success has amounted to more than 23
 person-years of funded research positions and leave since 2014, enabling colleagues to
 undertake major new projects of international significance: e.g. High’s ERC funding for Energy
 Ethics; Lynteris’ ERC, Wellcome Trust and MRC funding on plague, zoonosis and pandemics;
 Hyland’s Leverhulme Trust, Guggenheim and National Geographic funding on deciphering
 Andean knotted-cords. These achievements are encouraged through enhanced liaison with the
 research grants office; greater participation in grant activity through pathways for mentoring and
 internal review of grant applications; and through an entitlement to one semester of paid
 research and impact leave in every 6 teaching semesters (above University average, and a total
 of 16 semesters since 2014).

    •   Expanding our research community, while maintaining quality. We have grown our
        research community by a third, made 9 new appointments, increased promotion success,
        doubled PhD graduations, and significantly increased early career research activity.

 Since 2014, the complement of research-active permanent staff members has increased by over
 a third to 18.45FTE in response to student growth and grant capture, and despite the retirement
 of 3 Professors (Gow, Platt, Toren), and the transition to retirement of a further 2 Professors
 (Dilley, Rapport). Both Demian and Lynteris were recruited to Senior Lectureships, and Gutierrez
 Garza, Irvine and Joyce were recruited to Lectureships. McCallum joined as Visiting Professor.
 We celebrated 7 promotion successes. St Andrews is a recognised career springboard: we
 attracted 3 Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellows (High, Knight, Pipyrou), all of whom are now
 permanent appointments, and a tenure-track UKRI-funded Future Leaders Fellow (O’Hare). This
 planned regeneration strategy focussed on recruiting early-career researchers has rebalanced
 the skewing of senior positions in REF2014 cycle. We have doubled the number of research
 student graduations to 61 in this REF cycle: funded scholarship numbers have risen sustainably,
 as have training support provisions, international diversity and successful onward destinations
 (see 2.2).

    •   Diversifying and enriching our impact activities. We have expanded participation in
        our impact and outreach through a combination of increased funding, impact leave and
        teaching relief, and by formally embedding the recognition and value of impact as a
        specialist field of scholarship.

 Research impact is an embedded feature of our research community and culture, and ambitious
 multi-sector collaborations such as Bunn’s ‘Woven Communities’ and ‘Forces in Translation’
 projects with interdisciplinary scholars, Scottish museums and basket-weavers demonstrated
 beneficial effects for cognition and dementia. Lynteris’ research on pandemics has advised the
 WHO and House of Lords on COVID-19, and informed public debate on anti-epidemic mask
 usage including legislation in Mexico. Our two Impact Case Studies (REF3) demonstrate
 important local, national and international changes effected in South America and across the
 Pacific. A provision of one semester of impact leave for each potential ICS author (FTE
 requirement +1) is now formally embedded in our collective workload, administered through a
 joined-up strategy of identification and funding supports.

    •   Enhancing our international profile and collaborations. We have initiated and led
        international collaborations, consortia and partnerships, and welcomed the world to St
        Andrews through seminars, workshops, conferences and visiting exchanges.


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Centre for Pacific Studies initiated the EU-funded European Consortium for Pacific Studies
 (2012-17), and the AHRC/SFC-funded PaCiFiC community filmmaking consortium (2018-).
 Fumanti’s Wellcome Trust funded collaborations with artists and mental health practitioners in
 Namibia also led onto invitations and visiting fellowships to Japan and Switzerland. In 2019, the
 American Ethnological Society framed and launched its ‘Ethnographic Futures’ conference with
 a St Andrews collection Orientations to the Future arising from the Centre for Cosmopolitan
 Studies. We have expanded our ERASMUS staff exchanges. Through 55 workshops and
 conferences held in St Andrews and internationally, and our departmental and research centre
 and cluster seminars (see 3), we have hosted over 360 external speakers. Our hosting of the
 ASA2020 conference was postponed into 2021 due to COVID-19.

 As evident in the outputs, projects and impacts described above, we have distinctive thematic,
 regional and interdisciplinary expertise in cosmopolitanism, medical anthropology, climate
 crisis and energy ethics, history and temporality, material culture, gender inequality & in Britain,
 Europe, Melanesia and the Pacific, South America and the Caribbean, Mongolia and Central
 Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa. Our specific combination of interests stimulates experimental
 collaborations, and is reflected in hosting the prestigious ‘Ethnographic Horizons’ project focused
 on concepts of time and crisis in Melanesia and Amazonia as part of the 2018 Balzan Prize
 awarded to Marilyn Strathern (St Andrews Honorary Professor 2019-22).

 Responsibility for the research and impact strategy is shared between the Social
 Anthropology Head of Department (HoD), the Director of Research (DoR) and the Director of
 Impact (DoI). Strategies are informed and refreshed by Department away-days and individual
 research check-ins, and are implemented through our Research Committee. Social
 Anthropology is an autonomous unit in a federal School (with Philosophical and Film studies)
 within the Arts Faculty. We independently submit bids for University demand managed calls.

 We have increased our Research Centres to five - Amerindian Studies, Cosmopolitan Studies,
 Energy Ethics, Minorities Research, Pacific Studies; and our research clusters to five - Africa, Art
 and Material Culture, Collaborative Anthropology, Epistemologies of Medicine, Historical and
 Archival. Since 2014, transformative success across a larger base has reshaped their
 foregrounded role as principal organising research structures. Their continuing importance is
 reflected in our enlarged portfolio of projects and has evolved in view of our increasing pathways
 generating research initiatives. Our diversified suite of scaffolding research infrastructures is
 elaborated below (see 3 & 4). Funding has also enhanced our involvement in interdisciplinary
 research clusters elsewhere in the University, such as the Centre for the Study of Religion and
 Politics, and the Institutes for Gender Studies, and Legal and Constitutional Research.

 As we have grown in size, we have re-emphasised our collegial and inclusive approaches to
 strategic decision-making. We have expanded the membership and gender balance of our
 Research Committee and enhanced the representation of Postgraduate, ECR mentor, EDI,
 Ethics and Open Research remits. The Research Committee coordinates with the research
 infrastructures, and has a role in strategic decisions over resourcing, appointments, funding,
 leave applications and annual staff research reviews. This review of research culture,
 coordination and governance mechanisms, has enhanced the horizontal and vertical integration
 of research and impact strategy, and has produced transformative results.

 Our strategies are responsive to the St Andrews institutional context and structure and
 resourcing and decision-making bodies (see Institution-Level Environment Statement, ILES, 2).
 At Principal’s Office level, these include Research and Innovation Services and the REF-
 coordination Research Excellence Board. Since 2014, both Rapport and Harris have served as
 Head of School. Harris is also a member of the overall governing body, the University Court.
 DoR and DoI are both members of the University Research Committee. Demian serves as EDI
 Director for the Department and School. Pipyrou, is a key member of the University Teaching
 and Research Ethics Committee (overseeing a reform), and of the Research Data Management
 Advisory Group.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University Strategy 2018-2023 focuses on four attributes - World Leading, Diverse, Global and
 Entrepreneurial - all explicitly framed within a context of social responsibility. Social
 Anthropology plays a key role in the University’s environmental-focused and industry-facing
 Eden Campus development, and the ambition to become net-zero by 2035, through launching a
 uniquely positioned Centre for Energy Ethics directed by High, who also serves as Co-Director
 of Research on the Environment and Sustainability Board led by former Chief Scientific Advisor
 to DEFRA (Boyd). We have particularly strong engagement with the Global Challenges
 Research Fund (GCRF) through Scottish Funding Council- and UKRI-funded projects.

 We are committed to making our research results as openly available as possible for the benefit
 of all: e.g. Lynteris’ Visualising Plague Database. Anthropology has devised disciplinary specific
 guidelines for open research and research data management and sharing. This consultative
 process was guided by the principle "as open as possible, as closed as necessary" and
 complies with UKRI’s Concordat on Open Research Data. The guidelines provide clear
 categories and decision pathways enabling research staff to exercise expert judgement and
 justification for the correct treatment of ‘data’ in legal, technical and confidential ethnographic
 frameworks.

 Our REF2014 submission set out a vision and aim ‘to be a leading international department of
 social anthropology that combines theoretical vigour, historical groundedness,
 phenomenologically sensitive ethnography, and methodological and topical innovation’, and set
 out a research strategy to attain this by ‘by capitalising on past achievements (e.g. path breaking
 edited collections), an expansive recruitment policy of staff and students, the organisation of
 research through Centres, and an international orientation regarding funding, networking and
 dissemination’. We also set out an impact strategy towards ‘effecting, facilitating or participating
 in improvements to quality of life, as these are understood by our research subjects who, as
 individuals and communities, are the key end users of our knowledge’. The details above show
 the transformative results of implementing and evolving these research and impact strategies.

 In taking these commitments forward we have reshaped our research culture following the
 Stern Review, with a collective portfolio of differentiated contributions and collegial endeavour at
 its heart, and endorsed our founding commitment to foregrounding excellent scholarship in new
 and old contexts as a primary strategic parameter. Our commitment to collective collegial
 endeavour is evident in the democratic principles in selecting our research output pool, and in
 the different kinds of contributions to a collective portfolio described throughout this submission.

 Looking ahead to the next five years, we aim to pursue and support academic excellence by
 building on the transformational success of our evolving strategies. We will continue to elevate
 our coordination and governance mechanisms for research and impact strategy, and will
 continue to review and revise our investments and supports in dialogue with colleagues and in
 response to emerging successes, challenges and uncertainties.

 2. People

 Our people, their intellectual curiosity, their commitments to each other, to academic excellence
 and to social engagement, are our greatest resources. We take care to look after and support
 the well-being and development of our research community which includes research students,
 early career researchers and tenured staff, together with our professional services colleagues.
 Agreed managerial principles aim to maximise the time available for our strategic priorities -
 research and impact activities. A complete and transparent workload chart is circulated to all
 staff for comment and adjustment. We uphold democratic values that do not privilege one
 research mode or type of researcher over any other, but instead seek to promote excellence in
 all colleagues. These democratic principles also guided our REF2 output pool selection criteria
 and weighting decision.

 Alongside intellectual leadership at all stages of the profession in our combination of thematic
 and regional expertise, our distinctiveness is also rooted in the excellence of dedicated scholars


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 working together on a productively diverse and sometimes eclectic research and impact portfolio
 in a positive, inclusive, collegial ethos in a supportive socially aware environment and sector-
 leading institutional framework (ILES, 2.3). St Andrews has long met all key principles of the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, and holds the European
 Commission HR Excellence in Research Award.

 From the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, the University Principal provided early reassurance to
 staff that they should be kind to themselves and each other and work as best they could
 amongst domestic responsibilities. The University swiftly conducted surveys during the national
 lockdown, which sought to investigate the diverse impacts on staff and research students, and
 guide emerging policies and supports at Department, School and University levels.

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Social Anthropology has 21 Category A staff (1 UKRI Future Leader Fellow, 4 Lecturers, 8
 Senior Lecturers, 3 Readers, 1 Visiting Professor & 4 Professors):

 UKRI Future Leader Fellow: O’Hare
 Lecturers:                 Frankland, Gutierrez Garza, Irvine, Joyce
 Senior Lecturers:          Bunn, Crook, Demian, Fumanti, Gay y Blasco, Lynteris, Pipyrou,
                            Wardle
 Readers:                   High, Knight, Reed
 Visiting Professor:        McCallum
 Professors:                Dilley, Harris, Hyland, Rapport

 Our staffing strategy aims to build on St Andrews’ international reputation for excellent
 anthropological research, by hiring and retaining outstanding individuals at all levels, and
 supporting staff to thrive and achieve their full research and impact potential. Strategic
 investments in staffing and our research infrastructures - five research centres and five research
 clusters (see 1, 3 and 4) - have placed emphasis on enabling small-group focused communities
 with overlapping and mutual memberships in these umbrella groupings responsive to supporting
 initiatives of scholarly enquiry and encourage greater collegial interaction.

 We are conscious of demographic and diversity issues: our staff derive from Britain
 (12), Denmark (1), Greece (2), Ireland (1), Italy (1), Mexico, (1), Spain (1) & US (2). The overall
 gender balance is above average for the UK, with 9 female & 12 male staff, across the following
 positions: UKRI FLF (1M), Lecturers (2F, 2M), Senior Lecturers (4F, 4M), Readers (1F, 2M),
 Visiting Professor (1F), Professors (1F, 3M). This gender balance, EDI profile and seniority
 distribution have been actively developed over this REF cycle, and subject to extensive
 statistical analysis and checking in the REF2 output pool selection process.

 This profile also reflects our success in recruitment, progression, and retention. Ongoing growth
 and renewal has been a particular feature of the REF2021 cycle. We have continued to grow
 and be reshaped since RAE2008 (FTE11, 4* outputs ranked 2nd overall), and expansion
 through strategic future investments pivoted on a transitional REF2014 cycle (FTE14). Since
 then, the complement of research-active permanent staff members has increased by over a third
 to FTE18.45 in response to student growth and grant capture. This figure includes the retirement
 of 3 Professors (Gow, Platt, Toren), and the transition to retirement of a further 2 Professors
 (Dilley, Rapport).

 Our determination to maintain a collegiate and outward looking research culture is at the heart of
 our appointments process, and we guarantee this by prioritising: 1. an open and transparent
 process - we advertise widely and on a global scale; 2. full compliance with gender and diversity
 considerations starting with the selection of appointments panels; 3. collegial access to
 reviewing applications and involvement in extensive reading of submitted work at long- and
 short-listing stages; 4. an equal playing field at interview to which candidates are invited and
 funded to attend in person, and which our inclusive research community attends. All staff


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 participating in appointment panels undergo the University’s Staff Recruitment module, which
 includes training about unconscious bias.

 St Andrews’ internationally recognised strengths allows us to operate a strategic policy of
 open role descriptions in recruitment advertising that emphasises a shared commitment to
 research and impact excellence rather than specific regional or thematic expertise. This policy
 consistently results in large pools of high-quality applicants and enables collegial discussions of
 strategic priorities in view of candidate applications. This open approach has allowed us to both
 simply appoint the best candidates, and to fulfil specific regional and thematic priorities; for
 example, Hyland replaced Platt’s Andean expertise in the Centre for Amerindian Studies, and
 Demian replaced Toren in the Centre for Pacific Studies.

 Since 2014, we have made 9 new appointments: we attracted 3 Leverhulme Trust Early Career
 Fellows (High, Knight, Pipyrou), all of whom are now permanent appointments. Both Demian
 and Lynteris were recruited to Senior Lectureships, and Gutierrez Garza, Irvine and Joyce were
 recruited to Lectureships. McCallum joins us as Visiting Professor. As a UKRI Future Leader
 Fellow, O’Hare has joined us on a tenure-track. This planned regeneration strategy focussed on
 recruiting ECRs has rebalanced the skewing of senior positions in REF2014 cycle.

 St Andrews support for staff development begins with an induction programme delivered by
 University senior management and service units, and includes a suite of compulsory online
 courses, e.g. legal responsibilities in research integrity and ethics, bullying and harassment, and
 equality and diversity. Two University units, the Organisational and Staff Development Service,
 and the Centre for Educational Enhancement and Development, provide a comprehensive
 portfolio of more than 100 staff development courses to staff and research students.

 Our staff participate in a number of University mentoring schemes: 1. The Early Career
 Academics’ Mentoring Scheme; 2. The Early Career Women Network (which we co-founded); 3.
 The Elizabeth Garrett Mentoring Scheme which offers female Senior Lecturers, Readers and
 Professors the opportunity to develop administrative skills necessary for School and University-
 level leadership roles.

 Annual staff reviews with HoS and research check-ins with HoD and DoR also support
 continuing staff development by encouraging reflection on progress and aspirations, and to plan
 for future activities in the round - research, impact, development and well-being. These are
 characteristically light-touch and collegial, and typically focus on discussion of research ideas,
 initiatives, outputs in progress and published, funding applications and identifying the supports
 required to meet shared objectives.

 Our commitment to retention and realisation of potential is further evidenced by our successes in
 each year's promotions round - more than a quarter of staff have been promoted in this REF
 cycle. The University’s annual promotions round is advertised centrally and awards elevation
 solely on the basis of accomplishments. The criteria underpinning the promotions policy for each
 rank are publicly available, and were revised in 2017 to give greater and equal recognition to
 impact achievements. Since 2014, Harris and Hyland were promoted to Professor; High, Knight
 and Reed to Reader; and Fumanti and Pipyrou to Senior Lecturer. Out of a total of 7 promotions,
 4 were awarded to male colleagues, and 3 to female colleagues.

 2.2 Research students
 An engaged and high achieving cohort of home and international research students has always
 enlivened and driven our anthropological research community. Since 2014, we have celebrated
 61 graduations to PhD – a doubled and sustainable increase on the 31 during REF2014. Our
 support for research students is coordinated by our Director of Postgraduate Research and
 supported by the Postgraduate Committee. Our recruitment prioritises academic quality over
 volume and at sustainable levels to ensure outstanding supervision and research training.
 Current PGR numbers are 48 PhD (29 female, 19 male), and drawn from a wide range of
 countries: UK (8), EU (16), N. America (8), S. America (4), China (5), PNG (2) and Brunei,

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Jordan and Tunisia. In 2015, two Papua New Guineans graduated, including the first PNG
 woman to receive a PhD in Anthropology.

 Successfully attracting the best postgraduates involves coordinating individual expertise and
 collective reputations for scholarship, training and research culture. Competing for the brightest
 prospects must recognise that funding opportunities lie at the heart of research students’
 institutional and career decision making.

 St Andrews is a partner in the Scottish Graduate School of Social Science (SGSSS), with Reed
 overall convenor for the anthropology pathway. SGSSS pools doctoral training events including
 the Scottish Training in Anthropological Research (STAR) pre- and post-field residential
 workshops for all anthropology PhD students in Scotland. SGSSS administers ESRC-funded
 doctoral studentships and postdoctoral award competitions: St Andrews won 7 ESRC and 1
 AHRC PhD studentships, and 1 ESRC postdoctoral fellowship during this REF cycle.

 St Andrews introduced an open-ended ‘Handsel’ funding scheme directed at exceptional
 students through nationality-blind fee waivers and maintenance scholarships: this supports
 recruitment, matches research income and is reflected in a mid-REF-cycle transition and the
 rising number of current research students. Research students have won highly prestigious
 Marshall and Wolfson scholarships. The Centre for Minorities Research and the Centre for
 Pacific Studies won new fully-funded University scholarships offered by the St Andrews’
 Graduate School of Interdisciplinary Studies and Global Challenges Forum.

 Alongside co-supervision, we have enhanced pastoral monitoring, progress reviews, conference
 allowances and training needs analysis. All new research students are required to complete
 online ethics and research integrity training courses. Research students have access to the
 GRADskills Programme, which provides skill development with over 50 face-to-face workshops
 and online courses, and contribute to UG teaching. GRADskills supports the transition to
 employment (within and outside of academia), through training on publishing, public
 engagement, CV writing, interview skills, applying for postdoc positions and grant writing.

 Onward career destinations and successes in securing postdoctoral funding, fixed-term and
 permanent positions in the academy indicate the high quality of our graduating research
 students: e.g. Cova (Assistant Professor, Aarhus); Hukula (PNG National Research Institute);
 Junghans (CRASSH Research Fellow, Cambridge); Shisharenco (Senior Research Fellow,
 Lancaster), and Yang (Lecturer, Shaanxi). Non-academic professional destinations include
 Bridgeman (UK government) and Skrzypek (Scottish government) and reflect our emphasis on
 wider transferable skills and employability.

 2.3 Equality and diversity
 Our commitment to equality for all is deeply ingrained in our research community, and was
 recognised by the award of Athena Swan Bronze status. Recognition and provisions for equality
 and diversity run through our staffing strategies and development frameworks for staff and
 research students. This is also evident in the diversity of our research students, postdoctoral
 researchers and Visiting Scholars (e..g. BAME scholar, Doublier). The Balzan-funded
 ‘Ethnographic Horizons’ project supports 4 postdoctoral fellows from Brazil and Papua New
 Guinea, and has Honorary Professors attached to their respective National Museums. We have
 created new governance structures, staff policies and training requirements to formally embed
 EDI in our research culture. A new EDI Director role joins the Management, Research,
 Postgraduate and Ethics Committees, and coordinates with our appointments process, and
 oversees an annual review to analyse data, monitor progress and impact.

 The University’s Flexible Working Policy supports equality of opportunity and developing work
 practices and policies that support work-life balance. Social Anthropology promotes a family-
 friendly culture: children are welcome at seminars, and staff are encouraged to work flexibly
 during school holidays. All meetings, teaching (aside from the Evening Degree) and research


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 seminars are held during core hours. Our well-being officer organises a programme of supports
 for students and staff.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 We have more than quadrupled grant capture success rates, research awards and the 5-year
 HESA average income, derived from funding sources across the spectrum of gearing to the
 impact agenda. As a result, we have been able to launch ambitious new research and impact
 projects and publish leading scholarship (see 1 and 4). Research centres and clusters provide a
 strategic focus for some of our distinctive regional and thematic strengths: for example, the
 Centre for Amerindian Studies celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2019; the Centre for Pacific
 Studies is the UK’s only research centre dedicated to the Pacific; and the Centre for Energy
 Ethics works in tandem with University initiatives towards carbon neutrality.

 Since 2014, our transformative success across a larger base has reshaped the role of research
 centres and clusters as principal organising structures, and their continuing relevance has
 evolved amongst a wider suite of scaffolding research infrastructures in view of our increasing
 pathways to generate research initiatives. As detailed below, our research community is
 supported by, and enjoys, world-class operational infrastructures and facilities (also see
 ILES, 4).

 3.1 External income
 We have more than quadrupled externally derived research awards to £4,661,906, up from
 £1,074,174 in REF2014. Grant capture in the form of large-scale collaborative grants, network
 grants, individual awards, residential fellowships, and grants to fund workshops and conferences
 from UK and international research bodies has risen our HESA reported 5-year average
 research income to £400,285, up from £91,263 in REF2014. The total research spend of
 £2,453,071 demonstrates our vitality through transformative success and our sustainability
 through significant planned research post-REF2021.

 We support and incentivise grant-seeking activity by making success visible and rewarded,
 enhancing liaison with the research grants office; greater participation in grant activity through
 pathways for mentoring and internal review of grant applications; and through internally
 supporting 64 months of research and impact leave, in addition to 61 months of externally
 funded buy-outs and 158 months of externally funded postdoctoral positions – together
 amounting to more than 23 person-years of additional research time.

 Staff have collectively achieved unprecedented levels of success in securing external research
 and impact funding from more than 25 different National, European and International funding
 bodies and private foundations across the spectrum of engagement with the impact agenda.
 Funders include (in alphabetical order):
         Arts and Humanities Research Council, Brazilian National Council for the State Funding
         Agencies (CONFAP), British Academy, Brocher Foundation, Carnegie Trust for the
         Universities of Scotland, Creative Scotland, Economic and Social Research
         Council, Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council, EuropeAid, European
         Commission Framework 7 & Horizon 2020, European Fund for Regional
         Development, European Research Council, International Balzan Foundation, Japan
         Society for the Promotion of Science, John Carter Brown Library, John Simon
         Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, Leverhulme Trust, Medical Research Council,
         National Geographic, Royal Society, Royal Society of Edinburgh, Scottish Funding
         Council, Spanish Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness, UK Research and
         Innovation, and the Wellcome Trust.
 More than two-thirds of our Category A staff secured at least one of these sources of research
 funding. By conducting, managing and reporting on these funds to a high standard, and in each
 case producing all of the output deliverables, we have developed reputations and ongoing
 relations with our funders, and valuable track records and indicators of success for subsequent
 funders.

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 St Andrews PI external research and impact awards £40,000+ (REF2021 element only):
 Bunn, AHRC, Follow-on Funding: Woven Communities 2: Making memory and       £95,000
 mind, 2016-17.
 Bunn, Royal Society, Interdisciplinary APEX, ‘Forces in Translation: dialogues      £42,257
 between craft, anthropology and mathematics’, 2019-21
 Crook, EU Framework 7, European Consortium for Pacific Studies,                    €253,000
 'Knowledge Exchange: Research Policy Interfaces for the Pacific Context',
 2012-15.
 Crook, EU EuropeAid, 'Understanding Gender Inequality Actions in the               €150,000
 Pacific: Ethnographic Case-studies and Policy Options', 2015.
 Crook, EU H2020 Marie-Curie Global Fellowship (Dr Skrzypek), 'Innovation           €276,107
 through co-creation in contemporary mining relations’, 2017-20.
 Crook, AHRC GCRF, ‘Participatory Film-making as a Development Method to             £60,000
 Address Gender Inequality in the Pacific’, 2017-19.
 Crook, International Balzan Foundation, ‘Ethnographic Horizons’, 2018            CHF229,166
 Balzan Prize in Social Anthropology awarded to Marilyn Strathern, 2019-22.
 Fumanti, Wellcome Trust, ‘Narratives of Mental Illness in Contemporary              £49,300
 Namibia’, Seed Award, 2016.
 Gay y Blasco, Spanish Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness, ‘New                 £48,472
 visions of community / new Gitano, hybrid and sexualised identities’, 2015-17.
 Harris, British Academy/Leverhulme Trust, Senior Research Fellowship,               £47,000
 ‘The birth of Brazilian Amazonian riverine cultures’, 2015-16.
 Harris, Leverhulme Trust, Major Research Grant, ‘The Amazon as a historical        £149,833
 place: Past lessons for future challenges in the Brazilian Amazon’, 2013-16.
 High, Leverhulme Trust, Early Career Fellowship, ‘Fracking Dreams:                  £91,000
 Corporate Morality and Environmental Politics in a New ‘Energy Economy’ in
 the United States’, 2014-2016.
 High, European Research Council, Starting Grant, ‘Energy Ethics: Finance          €1,500,000
 Moralities and Environmental Politics in the Global Oil Economy’, 2017-20.
 Hyland, John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, Fellowship,                    US$55,000
 ‘Hidden Texts of the Andes: Deciphering the Khipus (Cord Writing) of Peru,
 2019-20.
 Hyland, Leverhulme Trust, Research Grant, ‘Hidden Texts of the Andes:              £251,902
 Deciphering the Khipus (Cord Writing) of Peru’, 2017-20.
 Knight, Leverhulme Trust, Early Career Fellowship, ‘Renewable Energy and           £144,000
 Extractive Economies in the Greek Economic Crisis‘, 2016-19.
 Lynteris, European Research Council, Starting Grant, ‘Visual                       £200,323
 Representations of the Third Plague Pandemic’, [€1.49 million total; St
 Andrews element], 2017-18.
 Lynteris, Wellcome Trust, Investigator Award, ‘Global War Against the Rat          £247,541
 and the Epistemic Emergence of Zoonosis’, [£990,164 total], 2019-24.
 O’Hare, UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship, ‘Transforming Plastics into                 £47,661
 Solidarity: Ethical Vertical Integration and Binational Recycling’, 2020-24.
 Pipyrou, Leverhulme Trust, Early Career Fellowship, ‘An Intergenerational          £141,776
 analysis of forced child relocation in Italy’, 2014-17.



                                                                                         Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Success in attracting external funds on this scale has had a transformative effect on the level,
 reach and significance of our activities and outputs (also see 4).

 3.2 Internal income
 We have also been successful in winning internal research and impact funds. The University
 directly funds or manages a number of targeted schemes: 1. the Knowledge Exchange and
 Impact funds (small awards up to £2,500, and large awards up to £12,500); 2. The Russell Trust
 Development Award (up to £2,500); 3. the Gender, Diversity and Inclusion Research Fund (up to
 £5,000); and 4. the Scottish Funding Council Global Challenges Research Fund (up to £30,000).
 In total, we secured £38,440 KE&I funding (4 projects, Bunn, High, Wardle); £6,600 RTDA
 funding (4 projects, Gay y Blasco, High, Lynteris, Wardle); £5,740 from the GDIRF fund (2
 projects, Gay y Blasco, Pipyrou); and £102,147 from SFC GCRF (5 projects, Crook, Demian,
 Pipyrou, Wardle). These competitively won internal funds for research, impact and development
 amount to £152,927.

 3.3 Research infrastructure
 Since 2014, our transformative success across a larger base has reshaped the role of umbrella
 research centres and clusters as principal organising structures, and their continuing relevance
 has evolved through a strategic review of our wider suite of scaffolding research infrastructure in
 response to our strategically encouraging greater scholarly interaction and overlapping
 inclusivity, and in view of our increasing number and diverse pathways to generate research and
 impact initiatives.

 We have invested in our Research Centres through recruited replacement and additional posts
 to broaden and deepen existing strengthens in three established Centres: Centre for Amerindian
 Studies (CAS), Centre for Cosmopolitan Studies (CCS), and Centre for Pacific Studies (CPS).
 We have also invested support in the launch of a further two Centres, each of which are highly
 interdisciplinary and have a University-wide remit and profile: the Centre for Minorities Research
 (CMR), and the Centre for Energy Ethics (CEE). Anthropology’s role in leading interdisciplinarity
 at St Andrews is also reflected in Joyce as Co-Director of the new Centre for Soviet Russian and
 Central and Eastern European Studies (CRSCEES). Research Centres are led by a Director and
 governed by management boards, and are subject to regular review at Research Committee and
 University levels to ensure their viability by guiding resource allocations and staffing
 investments.

 In response to colleagues’ existing thematic interests and emerging intellectual synergies, we
 have enhanced the role and activities of four established Research Clusters – Africa; Art and
 Material Culture; Collaborative Anthropology; Epistemologies of Medicine - and supported the
 launch of one new cluster - Historical and Archival). The research clusters are looser
 constellations supporting shared or topical or themed research interests and supported with a
 smaller budget. Larger funded research projects will provide the stimulus to sustain a cluster
 which often organise around reading groups and seminar presentations. Funding has also
 enhanced our involvement in interdisciplinary research clusters elsewhere in the University, e.g.
 the Centre for the Study of Religion and Politics, and the Institutes for Gender Studies and Legal
 and Constitutional Research.

 Regular research seminars, organised by the Department, its research centres and clusters,
 invite and engage speakers of international standing, and have worked hard to reflect our
 collegial research ethos of being hard on the ideas and easy on the person. A crucial element in
 fostering international reputation is our ongoing series of conferences, workshops and seminars
 that consider important established or emerging theoretical issues. The Ladislav Holy Memorial
 Trust, set up after his death in 1997, plays an important supportive role for some of these
 events.

 Together, these strategic research infrastructures provide both external visibility for attracting
 funding, projects and expertise, platforms for collaboration and international networking (see 4),
 and internal scholarly catalysts. As detailed above in the linkages between research income,

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 publication outputs and impact activities, our collective successes mostly take place under the
 auspices of these infrastructures.

 3.4 Operational infrastructure and Facilities
 The anthropological research community is housed together around St Salvators Quadrangle,
 with 24-hour access to offices, libraries and a common room in United College and a stone villa
 at 71, North Street. Since 2014, we have been awarded extra physical space for offices and
 desk spaces for our expanded numbers of staff and research students. All contracted staff have
 their own office space and computers, and unlimited access to campus-wide print facilities. Our
 oldest research centre, CAS, has its own suite of rooms with a teaching library that includes over
 4,000 Amerindian-focused texts, with 600 titles only held by St Andrews. University IT services
 and a dedicated computer officer provide day-to-day technical problem-solving and website
 support for research infrastructures and events.

 Since 2014, we have undertaken a major review of managerial, administrative and professional
 support services: a new School Manager role was created, and support staff hitherto connected
 primarily with the three different departments were reassigned to dedicated teams supporting
 teaching, and our research and impact infrastructures through pre- and post-award project
 support, finances and all HR issues.

 The main University Library subscribes to all the leading regional and disciplinary journals, and
 provides world-class access to extensive online publications, audio-visual resources, and
 actively procures and curates our excellent anthropology collection. Acquisitions and holdings
 are developed between our Library Officer and a dedicated collection adviser on the Library
 staff. Our annual library budget of £11,500 is separate from journal subscriptions, and we have
 been notably successful in securing £32,000 from the Library’s Research Enhancement Fund to
 improve provision in key research areas. All St Andrews staff and research students have
 access to an Inter Library Loan Service and the SCONUL Access scheme, and enjoy privileges
 to the National Library of Scotland in Edinburgh, one of the major research libraries in Europe.

 The Byre Theatre was brought under the University of St Andrews’ estate in 2015, and affords a
 200 seat auditorium, a 60 seat Studio Theatre, and further teaching, meeting and exhibition
 spaces. Availability of the Byre made it possible, in 2015, for our Centre for Pacific Studies to
 host a series of public talks under the rubric ‘Pacific Connections’, culminating in the hosting of
 the University of the South Pacific’s Oceania Dance Theatre and Pasifika Voices for
 performances of ‘Moana: The Rising of the Seas’ which involved a Pop-up Oceania exhibition
 and outreach activities that together went on to be Shortlisted for the 2016 THE Awards. The
 Wardlaw Museum showcases University history and collections, and hosted Dilley’s exhibition
 ‘Encountering Africa: Henry Gaden’s photography’. The department makes pedagogic use of
 The Burn House, operated by the Goodenough Trust, for postgraduate STAR network training
 events.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Since its start in 1979, Social Anthropology at St Andrews has always been outward looking. As
 much as our research community is defined through our distinctive thematic, regional and
 interdisciplinary strengths, and through the distinction of our collegial research culture and world-
 class institutional environment, we are, of course, primarily defined through our relations with
 diverse communities. As anthropologists we understand that we are not only our own persons,
 and equally, we are much more than the sum of our St Andrews-based community. These
 relations represent social responsibilities and also opportunities to use our expertise, privileged
 position and resources to wider benefit. Since 2014, we have enhanced our international profile
 and collaborations, and contributions to the research base, economy and society.

 Our collaborative outlook and track record places St Andrews 2nd in the UK Leiden rankings
 (ILES, 2). St Andrews’ University Strategy 2018-2023 is outward looking and framed by social
 responsibility, and sets out aspirations and supports to uplift and consolidate 6 interdisciplinary

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 themes in which we are world-leading, including Cultural Understanding. Increasingly, external
 recognition of our expertise has led to approaches for intellectual partnerships, policy advice,
 and applied public engagement. We have also expanded and diversified our interdisciplinary
 activities: e.g. Reed’s EPSRC collaboration with computer scientists and game designers, and
 his ESRC Transforming Social Science funded collaboration on sonic acoustemologies with
 zoos.

 4.1 Micro case studies
 In order to illustrate and evidence the diverse ways in which we support collaboration, engage
 key research users and make contributions to our academic and non-academic communities, we
 detail a series of micro case studies which demonstrate our strategies in action. Our success in
 attracting external funds has clear linkages for initiating cutting-edge projects and generating
 world-class research publications, and for resourcing a virtuous circle drawing in the best
 national and international collaborators, the best research students and early career researchers
 - and providing in turn an evidence base to draw from in engaging non-academics, practitioners
 and communities.

 The following micro case studies provide both research- and impact-focused examples of the
 ways we interact with these agendas, connect with these virtuous cycles, and connect with our
 academic and non-academic communities. Each example flows from funding success and
 publication outputs and, in different ways, each demonstrates our support for interdisciplinarity,
 collaboration and international consortiums. These selected examples also demonstrate the
 roles of our research infrastructures as expert hubs and visible platforms.

 Research collaboration
 1.      European and Spanish funding through the Collaborative Anthropology research
 cluster paved the way for Gay y Blasco and her longstanding friend and collaborator Liria de la
 Cruz Hernández (a Roma woman living in Madrid) to co-write a unique and important book
 Writing Friendship: A Reciprocal Ethnography, which movingly dissolves the dichotomy between
 author and subject. In recognition of her own anthropological achievement, St Andrews
 conferred an Honorary Master of Arts Degree on de la Cruz Hernández in 2019. St Andrews is
 world-leading on decolonising scholarship and opening research up to the input and critique of
 research participants through collaborative methods in field research, analysis, writing up and
 dissemination.

 2.      Our three Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowships provided invaluable time and
 space to write and produced an outstanding number of high-quality publications: High’s
 influential monograph Fear and Fortune; Knight’s major publications in JRAI, AQ and AE;
 Pipyrou’s important AQ article and completion of her monograph The Grecanici. All three have
 gone onto produce numerous other publications, including two co-authored books (High’s ERC-
 funded Energy Ethics & Knight’s Anthropology of the Future), together with three further
 monographs under review. All three of these former Leverhulme Trust-funded colleagues have
 been promoted, and each has gone onto assume leadership roles in interdisciplinary
 collaboration as the Director of a Research Centre (High, Energy Ethics; Knight,
 Cosmopolitan; Pipyrou, Minorities Research).

 3.     High’s European Research Council funding enabled the interdisciplinary and
 collaborative groundwork for the new Centre for Energy Ethics (CEE) which highlights what
 can be achieved when working in an interdisciplinary environment and accepting our social
 responsibility as scholars to answer big societal questions. In exploring and enhancing energy
 technologies, the guiding question needs to be not only what can we do, but also what should
 we do? By pursuing an explicitly apolitical approach, CEE involves diverse stakeholders and
 explores difficult and conflicting dynamics in the kind of world we envision and create for
 ourselves and others.

 4.    Pipyrou’s research is explicitly interdisciplinary and inherently collaborative. The new
 Centre for Minorities Research (CMR) follows this model and inspiration, and in doing so

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 disrupts disciplinary and organisational conventions, and approaches many of our thematic and
 regional interests from new perspectives. CMR brings together interdisciplinary expertise from
 staff from across seven Schools at St Andrews, and has signed MoUs with international partners
 in Messina, Verona, UFMG (Brazil), Trondheim and Flensburg, and collaborates with an
 international network newly brought into dialogue through projects in Brazil (on indigenous
 education), and in Scotland (on migrants and human trafficking). CMR’s research themes
 prioritise relevance to the everyday lives of minorities: 1. Migration, displacement and mobility; 2.
 (in)Equality and space; 3. Geographies of diversity and inclusion; 4. Conflict and Human Rights;
 5. Pain and loss.

 5.      With EU Framework 7 funding, the Centre for Pacific Studies initiated the EU-funded
 European Consortium for Pacific Studies (2012-17), involving 4 European universities (St
 Andrews, Bergen, Marseille, Nijmegen) and 2 Pacific partners (University of the South Pacific,
 Papua New Guinea National Research Institute). Activity in the REF2021 cycle saw problem-
 based research network workshops held in Nijmegen, Marseille and St Andrews, each followed
 by policy-roundtables in Brussels with the EU’s European External Action Service and DEVCO
 EuropeAid. Such events involved participants from the Pacific, NGOs, EU, ACP, Pacific
 governments and social science and humanities researchers from across the Pacific and
 Europe. ECOPAS created a 800+ strong international research network and the www.pacific-
 studies.net database searchable by place and theme of research expertise on the Pacific.

 6.      The confidence shown by the European Research Council and Wellcome Trust amongst
 others in Lynteris’ interdisciplinary expertise on zoonotic disease and epidemic control has been
 rewarded with a portfolio of high quality journal articles, alongside 2 sole-authored monographs
 Ethnographic Plague, Human Extinction, and 1 co-authored with a historian Sulphuric Utopias
 (Guardian top 30 books to understand the world in 2020). Lynteris’ research in the
 Epistemologies of Medicine research cluster draws upon science, theology and history, and
 draws other disciplines into anthropological knowledge and methodologies. Throughout the
 COVID-19 pandemic, his medical anthropological research and commentary have informed
 public debate, in particular on the subject of wet markets and anti-epidemic masks with over 200
 press/media outlets across the globe covering his opinion, including op-eds and interviews in
 The New York Times, BBC, SCMP, Guardian, ABC, The New Statesman, Deutschlandfunk,
 Libération, Le Monde, Barrons, The Atlantic, and Huffington Post. On the subject of masks, he
 has advised the House of Lords COVID-19 Committee while a new law passed on the
 compulsory wearing of these devices in Mexico quotes Lynteris's research as evidence in
 support of the legislation.

 7.      Fumanti’s Wellcome Trust Seed Award funded research combines the Africa and
 Epistemologies of Medicine research clusters, in a collaborative project with artists and
 mental health practitioners: ‘Narratives of Mental Illness in Contemporary Namibia’ involved 3 art
 therapy workshops for people diagnosed with mental illness. Fumanti’s research was featured
 by the Namibian Broadcasting Corporation on national TV, gave rise to a short film screened at
 the 2019 RAI Film Festival, and led to 2 published articles in Culture, Medicine and Psychiatry,
 and in Somatosphere. Fumanti and his Namibian collaborators are jointly writing 2 further
 articles. The project also led to several international invitations to strengthen collaborations on
 mental illness: Fumanti’s Visiting Fellowship at the Graduate School of Asian and African Area
 Studies in Kyoto was funded by a Japan Society for the Promotion of Science Fellowship, and
 his residential Fellowship in Geneva was funded by the Brocher Foundation which promotes
 collaboration on 21st century health challenges.

 Impact collaboration
 1.     Working through the Art and Material Culture research cluster, Bunn’s AHRC, Royal
 Society Interdisciplinary APEX, and internal KE&I funding has enabled two highly original and
 innovative interdisciplinary and inter-sector collaborations on craft and heritage (Woven
 Communities) and on craft and mathematical cognition (Forces in Translation). Partners include
 the Scottish Basketmakers-Circle; multiple Scottish Museums and galleries; Stroke Recovery
 Unit, Raigmore Hospital, Inverness; University of Hertfordshire, University of Aberdeen,

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Manchester Metropolitan University and University of Aarhus’ Centre for Future Technologies
 Culture and Learning. Bunn’s own expertise as a maker and interdisciplinary researcher has
 driven the collaborative project, and expanded awareness of Scottish social history through a
 focus on its basket-weaving and at the same time, shown how practical craft- and hand-skills,
 such as basket-making, can provide an important input to cognitive - especially spatial and
 geometric - development.

 Bunn’s research outputs include work on basketry, design and recovery in Journal of Design
 History, Craft Research and Journal of Art and Communities and two definitive edited volumes
 Anthropology and Beauty and The Material Culture of Basketry, alongside an impressive
 portfolio of wide ranging impacts. Key impacts include engaging the public in heritage research
 through practice; intangible cultural heritage outcomes enhancing knowledge of museum
 collections; developing new avenues and practices for creative mathematical understanding;
 drawing on hand-memories to assist communication for people living with dementia; and
 assisting in recovery of physical, cognitive and social capacity following acquired brain injury or
 stroke.

 2.      Crook’s European Union, AHRC and SFC Global Challenges funding led to the edited
 book Pacific Climate Cultures, and the portfolio of interdisciplinary research outputs and policy
 influence on gender inequality in the Pacific described in his Impact Case Study (see REF3).
 Research evidence underpins 2 major European Union-led development programmes worth
 €68,000,000, provided a catalyst for a regional consortium of Pacific filmmakers, and entailed
 collaborations recognised by the 2016 THE Awards.

 3.     Working through the Centre for Amerindian Studies, Hyland’s Guggenheim,
 Leverhulme Trust and National Geographic funded interdisciplinary and historical research
 unlocking the secrets of Andean knotted chords underpin ground-breaking research outputs in
 American Anthropologist and Current Anthropology, and has stimulated a renaissance in
 Peruvian knowledges, attracted global exposure (National Geographic, Google 3D) described in
 her Impact Case Study (see REF3).

 4.2 Service and esteem
 Colleagues’ service in positions of national and international leadership within the discipline has
 contributed significantly to the research base, and we have enhanced our participation in
 editorship, service to funding assessment and programme design, and globally visible leadership
 positions. Since 2014, Rapport served a 3-year term as Chair of the Association of Social
 Anthropologists, and is an active Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh; Reed currently
 serves as Joint-Editor of JRAI, and is Anthropology Convenor in the Scottish Graduate School of
 Social Science (SGSSS); Knight serves as Co-Editor to History and Anthropology; Crook
 advised the AHRC/ESRC on the Indigenous Engagement and Knowledge Mobilisation initiative
 and was the sole anthropologist in this UKRI programme; and other colleagues have been newly
 appointed to influential roles in national committees, funding assessment and international
 publications. Bunn serves on the British Museum’s Endangered Material Knowledge programme
 funding panel and advisory group.




                                                                                              Page 14
