Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen's University Belfast

 Unit of Assessment: 33

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a. Introductory synopsis
 UoA 33 at Queen’s comprises 34 researchers working across three disciplinary fields: Music;
 Drama; and Film, Broadcast and Screen Media. The unit has a strong international reputation
 across its disciplines, as evidenced by our achievements in the QS World University Rankings by
 Subject for Performing Arts, i.e. ranked 50th in 2016 (top 5.2%), and 51st-100th in 2017, 2019,
 2020 (top 6.6%). The arts at Queen’s is also known for the Sonic Arts Research Centre (SARC),
 a global leader in sound and music research. Our research staff continue to play a key role in the
 development of the local creative industries, collaborating closely with other arts, humanities and
 technology researchers across the University, and alongside professional artists, arts
 organisations and key industrial and governmental partners. Benefiting from its dual location within
 the UK and Ireland, our research avails of increased opportunities for collaboration and access to
 cross-border funding. Since the previous REF cycle, we have increased both our average annual
 research income (£4.8m total, £688k annually for REF 2021, up from £3m total, £593k for REF
 2014) and PhD student completion rate (82.25 total, 11.8 annually for REF 2021 up from 57 total,
 11.5 annually for REF 2014), starting from a position that was already above the sectoral average.
 Overall, we have enhanced our existing research environment (100% @ 4* in REF 2014) by
 developing a diversity of research strengths, combining innovative artistic practice with scholarly
 discourses of cultural and critical enquiry, while increasingly positioning ourselves at the forefront
 of emergent creative technologies through collaboration with external partners.

 b. Context and structure
 Following the University’s 2016 'Size and Shape Review', the former School of Creative Arts
 became part of the new School of Arts, English and Languages (AEL), one of five schools in the
 Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (AHSS). Arts is now one of three Core Disciplinary
 Research Groups (CDRGs) located in AEL, with shared strengths across the unit as a whole,
 particularly in the areas of practice-as-research (PaR), critical and historical scholarship, creative
 technologies, interdisciplinary research and public engagement. SARC and the recently
 established Centre for Documentary Research (CDR), for example, are managed within AEL,
 maintaining and promoting a wide interdisciplinary remit. Interdisciplinary research is further
 supported through ongoing collaborations with the Seamus Heaney Centre (AEL), the Mitchell
 Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice (AHSS), and a range of cross-institutional research
 groups and projects supported by strategic funding.

 c. Research and impact strategy

 2014-2020 Research Strategy: Challenges, Actions and Achievements

 In consolidating our existing research strengths and realising our ambitions in emerging areas
 within AEL, we have responded with the following actions:

       Protecting regular periods of research leave (i.e. normally one after six worked semesters)
        as a primary means to facilitate focused research activity, and encouraging individual
        researchers to prioritise more ambitious research outputs;
       Increased support for submissions of larger-scale funding applications while also
        supporting strategically targeted smaller grants and commissions, with the aim of
        sustaining funding for a broad range of dynamic research projects in a highly competitive
        environment;
       Promoting a wider culture of research impact awareness by providing training and support
        for all researchers in articulating and evidencing the types and nature of impact on local
        and international communities, especially in relation to creative research;


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Replacement academic posts from vacancies during this REF cycle have targeted
        research areas that can bridge disciplines across the arts (e.g. Broadcast and Digital
        Media, Film Music, Arts Leadership).

 While some aspects of our research environment have changed, these actions have allowed us
 to achieve the broad aims set out in the REF 2014 documents, as well as responding to new
 opportunities and challenges. Key indicators of progress against the five aims in the Unit’s
 previous research strategy are as follows:

       Outputs: an increased focus on larger-scale and ambitious research projects has resulted
        in an anticipated improvement in overall quality across the Unit. Interdisciplinary outputs
        demonstrated increased collaboration and co-authorship both within and outside the Unit
        (e.g. with anthropology, law, computer engineering, creative writing, politics, and
        healthcare).

       Research Students: despite a sectoral reduction in available funding, we have increased
        our average annual PhD student completion rate during the current cycle, starting from a
        position that was already above average. We have benefited from the quality of PhD
        student achievements, notably: 'Best Music Award' (Adam Pultz Melbye) at the
        International Conference on New Interfaces for Music Expression 2020, and Royal
        Television Society (RTS) Postgraduate Craft Skills award winner in 2016 (Séan Murray).

       Public Engagement: the creation of a School Impact and Public Engagement Champion
        (Schroeder) with a dedicated budget has facilitated strategic support and investment to our
        public engagement activities (e.g. Being Human Festival, 2017). The increased budget for
        the Unit’s biennial Sonorities Festival Belfast has enabled an increased focus on public
        engagement activities. The Unit has also hosted research engagement events as part of
        the annual NI Science Festival, and the appointment of a School Engaged Research
        Champion (Litvack) in 2019 has further ensured that our public engagement strategy aligns
        with the University’s Engage Research Action Plan (2019-2021).

       Internationalisation: We have continued to develop new research relationships with
        international collaborators, e.g. Folger Institute, Folger Shakespeare Library; Library of
        Congress; Centre for Computer Research in Music and Acoustics (Stanford); Centre for
        Interdisciplinary Research in Music Media and Technology (McGill); International Institute
        for Critical Studies in Improvisation (Canada); University of São Paulo; Bach-Archiv
        Leipzig; Orpheus Instituut (Belgium); Cineteca di Bologna. Such collaborations have led to
        invited talks and performances, research residencies, co-authored papers and exhibitions,
        journal special issues, and collaborative research funding awards. A notable example is
        the AHRC Partnership for Conflict, Crime and Security Research 'Sounding Conflict'
        (£800k, 3yrs, Rebelo Co-I) which was led by QUB in partnership with fifteen NGOs in eight
        countries, and was nominated for the Times Higher Education Best Research Project
        Award (2020).

       Research Funding: Research funding has been secured for larger scale projects across
        the Unit during this REF cycle, with increased funding for interdisciplinary projects and
        sustained success in smaller strategically focused funding (e.g. Leverhulme/BA). A major
        AHRC grant of £5.7m (£13m with creative industries match funding) has been awarded for
        Future Screens NI (2018-23), dedicated to developing creative industries in Northern
        Ireland through academic-industrial research partnerships between Ulster University and
        QUB with key local industrial partners (e.g. NI Screen, BBC, Kainos).




                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Impact Strategy and Key Achievements

 Since 2014, we have prioritised maximising research impact, and the results of this strategy are
 already evidenced in the quality of the three Impact Case Studies submitted for REF 2021:
 'Performing Restoration Shakespeare' (Schoch); ‘Reassembled, Slightly Askew' (Stapleton);
 'Producers and Production Practices in the History of Italian Cinema, 1949-75' (Baschiera). Other
 significant impact achievements during this cycle include:

       The musical compositions of Hellawell have impacted audiences, professional artists and
        future composers through collaborations with the Schubert Ensemble and Hilliard
        Ensemble, performance at the BBC Proms, and through inclusion on the curriculum of HEI
        music departments (e.g. University of Manchester). During this REF cycle Hellawell's work
        has been supported by a Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowship, PRS Foundation for
        Music UK Composers Award, and a Major Individual Award from the Arts Council of
        Northern Ireland.

       The British Academy, AHRC and Lipman-Miliband Trust supported the documentary film
        It Stays With You (McLaughlin, director) raising awareness of the effects of the use of
        deadly force by UN peacekeeping troops on Cité Soleil, a severely economically-
        depressed neighbourhood of Port au Prince, Haiti, challenging assumptions that this UN
        mission was a resounding success.

       'Thomas Moore in Europe' is underpinned by the EC H2020 funded ERIN project (2015-
        2017, McCleave PI) and has directly influenced curatorial practice in three institutions - the
        Royal Irish Academy, and in two internationally significant museums: the British Museum,
        and Malaysia’s Islamic Arts Museum (the largest Islamic arts museum in south east Asia).
        A project website dedicated to Moore has attracted visitors from 63 countries.

       The AHRC-supported 'Participatory Sonic Arts: Listening to Voices Case Study' (Rebelo)
        has resulted in a sound art exhibition collaboratively created by voice-hearers, academics
        and independent artists which provides audiences with new understandings about the
        experience of hearing voices.

 Notable achievements in developing projects which have shown potential for significant future
 impact include the following:

       ‘Dance and the Maternal' (McGrath) is an ongoing interdisciplinary practice-as-research
        choreography project that communicates stories of maternal experience across Ireland
        through dance performance, and has produced outputs in both academic and public
        performance contexts, including verbatim text and movement piece Let Down (2018) on
        the challenges presented to maternal corporality (e.g. breastfeeding) in Western societies.

       'Performance without Barriers' (led by Schroeder) is an inclusive music making project
        focused on the design of accessible musical instruments in collaboration with disabled
        musicians. The project team has received funding from AHRC (2018), delivered in
        partnership with Drake Music NI with the aim of impacting the lives of people with
        disabilities as well as musicians and audiences more generally through reconfiguring,
        deconstructing and transforming understandings of disability and social and material forms
        of exclusion.




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2021-2026 Future Research Strategy

 The Unit’s four key research aims for the next five years are as follows:

    1. Driving transformative research collaborations and interdisciplinarity:
    Responding to disciplinary and interdisciplinary opportunities (e.g. practice-as-research and
    new critical directions in arts research), and emerging research priorities (e.g. UKRI strategic
    calls); increasing collaboration within the Unit and across the University, with a view to
    ambitious collaborative research funding success, and an enhanced ability to shape future
    international strategic priorities in and across the Unit’s disciplines.
    2. Building an integrated, inspirational environment
    Supporting individual researchers and research teams with a track record of producing
    outstanding outputs, while enhancing the visibility of the Unit’s research expertise within and
    outside the University; supporting PGR students and ECRs through increased mentoring and
    targeted internal funding to create the next generation of research leaders.
    3. Contributing to the creative economy at regional, national, and global levels:
    Supporting innovative, diverse, and ambitious research that enhances the performance of the
    creative economy; responding to industry needs and acting as catalysts for major knowledge
    exchange initiatives, such as the Unit’s involvement in a new £2.5m MediaLab.
    4. Communicating value, versatility, and innovation:
    Maximising the outcomes and impact of the Unit’s research through effective and
    comprehensive communications planning; ensuring our research is attractive to potential
    international collaborators, and capable of influencing cultural and economic policy-makers.

 In order to support these ambitions, significant strategic planning exercises have recently been
 conducted for the following three centres, which aim to increase our coordinated research
 activities:

 Centre for Documentary Research (CDR): Launched in 2017 the CDR is an initiative offering a
 space to debate issues and organise activities around the study and practice of documentary film.
 The CDR team is interdisciplinary, with particular expertise in Film, Broadcast, Languages,
 English and History, including scholars, students, curators and practitioners of documentary
 film, with interests covering mental health, conflict, experimental film, Brazilian protest films, new
 media and interactivity. Current external partners include: Belfast Film Festival, Bertha
 Dochouse, Documentary Film Institute, San Francisco State University, Foyle Film Festival, idocs
 in Bristol, Irish Screen Studies, Respect Human Right Film Festival, and Visible Evidence.

 MediaLab at Queen’s: Building on the success of the AHRC-funded Future Screens NI
 partnership with Ulster University, and the Creative Industries Cluster Programme at Queen’s,
 the university has agreed to commit £2.5m to the establishment of a new media lab. The research
 opportunities afforded by the lab will take advantage of the enabling technologies, production
 methodologies and commercial models to ensure QUB Knowledge is delivering for the media
 and entertainment sector with a focus on digital transformation and social change.

 Sonic Arts Research Centre (SARC): In 2019, a new SARC Strategy Group identified three
 existing cross-disciplinary research strengths in which SARC has achieved significant international
 recognition: Improvisation Studies (partnerships exist with the International Institute for Critical
 Studies in Improvisation); Socially Engaged Practice (partnerships include: NI Hospice; and
 community museums in Brazil and Mozambique as part of AHRC/ESRC PaCCS ‘Sounding
 Conflict’ project; and, Social Work at Queen’s and Future Screens NI); Immersive and Interactive
 Media (activities here include involvement in the EU H2020 funded network, ‘Virtual Reality Audio
 for Cyber Environments’; and 'Digital Musical Instruments of the Future: The Role of Alignment in
 Exploration, Discovery and Skills Interaction'). Such research strengths are not exclusive to SARC,
 and the aim moving forward is to build stronger links across the Unit in these and related areas
 (e.g. with applied drama, movement improvisation, post-conflict studies, broadcast media).



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 d. Interdisciplinary research
 In addition to the support for interdisciplinary research activities provided by the centres and
 projects, the unit also benefits from membership and leadership roles in a range of institutionally-
 supported research groups and institutes, including: Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security
 and Justice (Grant, McLaughlin, O’Rawe, Rebelo, Urban-Devereux); Centre for Eighteenth-
 Century Studies (McCleave, Tomita); Postcolonial Research Forum (Fisher, Phelan);
 Time/Temporality/Futurity Reading Group (Bulut, FitzGibbon, Stapleton); Mental Health Research
 Group (Baxter, Murphy, O’Rawe); Institute of Irish Studies (McGrath, McLaughlin, Urban-
 Devereux, Phelan); Leverhulme Interdisciplinary Network on Cybersecurity and Society (O’Rawe);
 and Translating Improvisation Research Group (Grant, McGrath, Schroeder, Stapleton, Waters).
 These and other groups contribute to a research environment where opportunities for
 interdisciplinary exchange are readily available, leading to interdisciplinary PhD supervisions,
 collaborative research bids and co-authored research outputs.

 e. Open research environment
 The Unit is committed to the principle of open research, and during this cycle we have developed
 effective practices reflecting this principle. All journal articles included in our submission are open-
 access compliant, and 72/76 (95%) of articles published during 2016-2020 are open-access
 compliant. Similarly, conference papers are regularly made publicly accessible through the
 institutional repository (PURE), and documentation of practice-as-research outputs are routinely
 made available through online platforms. Notable projects that demonstrate our commitment to
 open research include:

       National Lottery Heritage Fund supported Prisons Memory Archive (PMA) (McLaughlin), a
        collection of filmed walk-and-talk recordings with those who had a connection with Armagh
        Gaol, and the Maze and Long Kesh prisons during the conflict, and which is now preserved
        and publicly available in its entirety through the Public Record Office (PRONI), with extracts
        and additional resources on the PMA website.

       EC H2020-funded Europe's Reception of the Irish Melodies and National Airs: Thomas
        Moore in Europe (ERIN) catalogue website (McCleave), an open access online resource
        which maps Europe’s response to Moore’s Melodies, documents the chronological and
        geographical dissemination of The National Airs and identifies related European music
        editions of the songs, operas and ballets, making accessible representative holdings of
        eight European repositories;

 f. Research integrity and ethics
 The AEL ethics committee includes membership from the Unit, and reports to the School Research
 Committee. The ethics committee is responsible for the school's research ethics approval process,
 conducted in line with university policy. Additionally, the committee has done substantial work
 during the current REF cycle to create detailed research ethics and data management guidance
 documents to assist students and staff in planning and conducting their research projects (e.g.
 annotated version of the ethics approval form, guidance on completing participant information
 sheets, FAQs).


 2. People

 a. Summary overview of approach
 This Unit and the University recognises that investing in people is key to creating a vibrant
 research culture, as exemplified by sustained funding in AHSS for regular periods of research
 leave leading to the enhancement of individual research careers, and through the development of
 a new peer-based mentoring scheme which has led to an increase in promotions and
 confirmations-in-post. The Unit benefits from diversity in terms of its scope of disciplinary
 perspectives, and also through diversity in the cultural backgrounds of its sizable population of
 international staff and PGR students. A large body of PGR students are at the heart of the Unit's
 research environment, and are supported through expert supervision, a strong track record of

                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 securing externally funded scholarships, and a broad range of internally funded research training
 and development opportunities. The Unit is committed to addressing equal opportunity issues,
 and has played a leadership role in AEL's successful 2020 application for an Athena SWAN bronze
 award.

 b. Staffing profile and recruitment
 Since 2014, the total number of researchers across the unit has remained relatively stable, i.e.
 34.5 FTE and a headcount of 36 for REF 2014, compared with the current FTE and headcount of
 34. Current headcounts at subject area levels: 13 for Music, including SARC (Agus, Alcorn, Bulut,
 Hellawell, Mawhinney, McCleave, Rebelo, Robb, Schroeder, Stapleton, Tomita, Waters,
 Woodfield); 10 for Drama, including Arts Management (FitzGibbon, Grant, McGrath, McTighe,
 Murphy, Phelan, Schoch, Scullion, Taroff, Urban-Devereux); 11 for Film, Broadcast and Screen
 Media (Barber, Baschiera, Baxter, D’Arcy, Delaney, Fisher, Haswell, McLaughlin, Mollaghan,
 O'Rawe, O'Sullivan). There are notable differences in the maturity of disciplines within the Unit,
 with Music having the longest history (established in 1949), and this is reflected in the current
 spread in grades: Music has 6 Professors, 1 Reader, 4 Senior Lecturers, 2 Lecturers; Drama has
 2 Professors, 4 SL, 3L and 1 Senior Research Fellow; Film, Broadcast and Screen Media has 1
 Prof, 6 SL and 4 L.

 More than 90% of the researchers listed above are on permanent contracts, with 1 fixed-term
 researcher included in the submission for Drama; and 2 in Film, Broadcast, and Screen Media.
 During this REF cycle an additional 15 post-doctoral research fellows and research assistants
 were employed on a fixed-term basis, funded primarily through external research income. The
 Unit also employed 7 Lecturers of Education during the cycle, who while not required to return
 REF outputs have contributed scholarly activity to the Unit’s research environment (e.g. Ortiz's
 role in musical instrument design research at SARC).

 Research management of the Unit is currently led by the Head of School (Taroff, line manager for
 all category A staff), who is supported by the AEL Research Committee chaired by Director of
 Research (Baschiera) with membership including Core Disciplinary Research Group Lead for the
 Arts (O'Rawe) and UoA 33 REF Champion (Stapleton).

 While there has been relative stability in total FTE for the Unit, 11 category A staff returned in REF
 2014 are no longer employed by QUB due to fixed-term contracts, voluntary redundancies,
 retirements, and departures to new appointments. While this turnover has presented challenges,
 it has also created opportunities for strategic investment in a climate where funding for new
 academic posts is limited. In line with our research ambition to increase potential for collaboration
 across the arts while supporting key disciplinary strengths, strategic hires were made in the areas
 of Animation (Haswell, Mollaghan), Arts Leadership (FitzGibbon), Digital Media (D'Arcy),
 Experimental Music and Sound Studies (Bulut), Film, Broadcast and Screen Media with expertise
 in the creative industries and practice-as-research (Baxter, Delaney, Haswell), and Irish Theatre
 and Queer Theory (McTighe). Additional key appointments include the new subject lead for
 Mitchell Institute Senior Research Fellow specialising in Irish drama and community politics
 (Urban-Devereux), and the former Pro-Vice-Chancellor of AHSS and theatre scholar (Scullion).

 Significant efforts have been made during this REF cycle to address the gender imbalance in
 staffing, and recent recruitment strategies reflect an increase in female applicants, resulting in an
 overall demographic change from 22% female and 78% male 'category A' staff in 2014 to 34%
 female and 66% male in 2020. While recognising how much work still needs to be done in this
 area, particularly in relation to gender balance across senior grades, progress has been made and
 this will remain a focus moving forward.

 c. Staff development and career progression
 Staff development, mentoring, and progression has been assisted by formal and informal
 programmes of mentorship. A new university Personal Development Review (PDR) involves the
 joint-production of an annual report outlining priorities and development goals. PDR has also
 streamlined academic progression and probation processes. In the first academic year of the new

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PDR system (2019/2020), the Unit achieved 7 successful promotion applications, an increase of
 233% on the average promotion rate in the previous three years. Likewise, the confirmation-in-
 post rate in the Unit increased to 5 in 2019/2020 from an annual average of 1 in the previous three
 years.

 Regular periods of research leave remain the key investment in the development of individual
 research careers. From August 2013 to July 2020, AEL supported a total of 52 semesters worth
 of internally-funded research sabbaticals across the Unit. These sabbaticals allowed researchers
 to engage in focused and sustained research activities leading to large-scale outputs (e.g.
 monographs, practice-as-research portfolios), as well as to the development of ambitious funding
 proposals.

 Support for staff developing grant applications is available through various well-publicised
 sources, and plans for applications may develop unilaterally, from: PDR/mentoring process,
 CDRG activity, or from opportunities arising from UKRI and equivalents. Staff are encouraged to
 attend courses on the funding landscape, and application writing. Seed-funding is available to
 support the development of larger grant applications. Researchers typically work with their PDR
 reviewer, CDRG lead, REF Champion and/or DR to develop an application. University and Faculty
 research managers support preparation of the grant with the School’s internal peer review also
 giving feedback on drafts. A number of internal funding schemes are available to support the
 development of collaborative research grants (e.g. Research Grant Enabler Fund, providing up to
 £3,000 for attendance at information events or townhall meetings, organisation of collaboration
 activities and interview preparation). Unsuccessful applications are discussed with reviewers and
 co-applicants as part of the PDR cycle, and where appropriate applicants are supported to revise
 and resubmit.

 Interdisciplinary research funding applications are encouraged via wider training sessions and
 workshops: e.g. ‘Engaging with Cultural and Heritage organisations’ (2019), at which researchers
 were able to meet representatives from national and regional institutions (British Museum, Historic
 Royal Palaces, National Trust, National Gallery, Irish Museums Association and Public Records
 Office of NI). A new University-wide interdisciplinary pump-priming fund is available to teams of
 researchers, and the Unit is leading a project which secured £29,774 in the first round of this fund
 in January 2020.

 The University policy supports flexible working; and while there are currently no PT researchers
 in the Unit, there is scope for temporarily or permanently renegotiate FT contracts based on
 personal circumstances as evidenced elsewhere within Queen’s. While fixed-term staff make up
 a small proportion of researchers in the Unit (8.5% of category A), fixed-term researchers have
 access to the same training and support as academics on permanent contracts.

 d. ECRs and post-docs
 Newly-employed ECRs are provided with a ring-fenced start-up package, which allows for the
 purchasing of specialist research equipment, piloting of research projects, and research travel.
 Once the start-up package is spent, ECRs gain access to AEL's application system for research
 travel, publications, and the running of conferences, which is also open to post-docs.

 Recognising that smaller grants can be significant in career development, AEL supports
 applications for appropriate, and often prestigious, awards that fall below the University’s ‘normal’
 threshold value. Continued employment for PDRAs and other contract researchers is often
 dependent on grant income; therefore, in addition to the current support offered by PIs through
 the PDR process, we continue to support these colleagues in identifying suitable funding streams.

 e. PGR students
 The Unit has had 82.25 PhD completions during the REF 2021 assessment period, with 58.75
 supervised in Music; 12.5 in Film, Broadcast, and Screen Media; and 11 in Drama. Secondary
 supervisions of interdisciplinary PhDs are increasingly common not only within the Unit (SARC
 and Dance) but also within AEL (Seamus Heaney Centre), AHSS (Anthropology) and in disciplines

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 outside AHSS (Architecture, Computer Engineering, Psychology). Evidence of student satisfaction
 with interdisciplinary supervisions and the wider research environment can be found in qualitative
 responses from the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey. Across the Unit, PhD students
 are consistently satisfied with their supervision (PRES definitely/mostly agree: 85% 2013, 100%
 2015, 95% 2018, 89% 2019), as further evidenced by indicative student comments. In addition to
 PhD student enrolments from the UK, during the REF 2021 cycle the Unit has benefited from
 sizable enrolments from international students (37%), and the diversity of the PGR population,
 both in terms of cultural backgrounds and in the mix of disciplines, is of clear benefit to the Unit’s
 research environment.

 The University’s Graduate School provides both a broad PGR training programme as well as a
 dedicated facility for PGR research activities. In terms of discipline-specific training, the
 Music@Queen's events provide for weekly concerts, seminars and workshops from leading
 international scholars and artists that align with the research interests of PGR students and staff.
 Likewise, regular research seminars in Drama and Film, Broadcast, and Screen Media provide
 key training for PGRs. Funding for a seminar, concert and artist-talk on the theme of improvisation
 across disciplines was provided by the Queen's Annual Fund in 2016. Additional interdisciplinary
 seminars and PGR-targeted events are regularly funded through the Arts CDRG budget (this has
 included the 'Sharing Space Symposium' in 2018 and 2019 in association with the Irish Society
 for Theatre Research, focusing on practice-as-research processes across the arts). PGRs are
 given further opportunities to present work-in-progress to their peers through the Postgraduate
 Research Roundtable, and through other student initiatives.

 68% of PGRs who enrolled in the Unit during this REF cycle have received funding through
 external awards (e.g. DfE, AHRC Northern Bridge, LINCs), which generally include support for
 research travel, conference fees and specialist equipment. PGRs can also apply for research
 expenses supported by the AEL research budget and international research travel costs through
 University-wide initiatives (e.g. Emily Sarah Montgomery and Sir Thomas Dixon travel
 scholarships). Research collaborations between supervisors and PGRs in the Unit are common,
 resulting in outputs ranging from co-authored papers to performances and instrument designs.

 f. Equality and diversity
 In the context of the new School, an AEL SWAN Action Team (SAT) was formed with membership
 from the Unit, (Murphy, SWAN Co-Champion). The SAT led on the submission of a successful
 application for an Athena SWAN bronze award in 2020. We are fully committed to the
 implementation of AEL's SWAN Action Plan, which focuses on addressing equality issues and
 improvising staff wellbeing, including through improving the provision for staff returning from leave
 for reasons of ill-health, bereavement and ongoing caring responsibilities.

 AEL is also supportive of staff who may need to change working arrangements. In the current
 cycle it has not been necessary for colleagues to seek formal contractual to facilitate flexible
 working, as AEL facilitates working flexibly within the same contract conditions, and encourages
 contributions from staff on timetabling requirements, particularly where caring responsibilities are
 concerned. Prior to the pandemic, AEL had already facilitated staff working from home.

 In line with best practice within Queen’s, maternity/adoption leave counts towards the calculation
 for sabbatical leave. On return to work, the member of staff meets with the HoS to review
 workload/working pattern and any particular needs. A teaching-free period is allocated for the
 semester following maternity leave to revive research activity (facilitated by Faculty-assisted
 funding for teaching assistance). The WPCS shows the introduction of this policy in 2015 provides
 ‘invaluable support’.

 The School provides a private nursing room for staff and students room to breastfeed or express
 and store milk in a fridge specifically for this purpose. There is also a breastfeeding room in another
 centrally-located University building with a sink, fridge and comfortable seating. AHSS SWAN
 Champions have set up the AHSS Parents’ Group.


                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 AEL adheres closely to the Athena SWAN principle that academia cannot reach its full potential
 without the talents of all. PGR students and ECRs as an essential part of this process, and our
 action plan is committed to ensuring that women and minorities are not lost across the career
 pipeline, and that everyone is enabled to achieve their potential. AEL is committed to removing
 obstacles faced by women, in particular, at major points of career development. The School's
 commitment to enabling all colleagues to reach their potential involves embedded family-friendly
 policies. Increasing numbers of colleagues have caring responsibilities, and policies have been
 developed that respond to these needs.

 The University’s People and Culture Directorate oversees a range of policies aimed at promoting
 a positive, equitable and inclusive place to work and study. Key policies undergo an equality
 assessment by its Diversity and Inclusion Unit. Policies are operationalised through ongoing
 training. P&C maintains a register of trained Anti-Harassment Advisors who can be contacted by
 any colleague for confidential advice.

 The Unit continues to play a leading role in supporting diversity, and notable internally-funded
 examples include 'Queer@Queen's' (2009-present), an annual series of workshops, talks and
 performances organised by Drama (Taroff, McTighe) as part of Outburst Queer Arts Festival
 Belfast; and, 'Women, Ageing and Film: The in/visible woman in Cinema Symposium' organised
 by Film (Barber).


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 a. Overview of research grants / income and strategies for funding
 Since the previous REF cycle, the Unit has increased its average annual research income spend
 from £593k to £688k annually (+16%), with £4.8 million total research income in the current
 cycle. Annual research income spend per-FTE likewise increased from £17k to £20k annually
 (+18%). The Unit was awarded 51 research grants from 16 external funders for projects run
 during the REF 2021 assessment period.

 The Unit's primary funder was the AHRC, with other key funders including EC-Horizon 2020,
 Heritage Lottery Fund, and Leverhulme. 21 individual researchers (60% of current FTE) have been
 named as a PI or CI, with PIs represented across all grades from lecturer to professor. Grants with
 values above £90k awarded to researchers in the Unit include:

       Restoration Shakespeare (AHRC, Schoch PI £607,312);
       Future Screens NI (AHRC Creative Industries Cluster Programme, Alcorn PI for QUB
        £523,894, Schroeder CI £392,920, and formerly Keeney CI £261,947 replaced as CI by
        Delaney);
       Visual Voices of the Prisons Memory Archive (Heritage Lottery Fund, McLaughlin PI
        £75,100 phase one, £500,500 phase two);
       Into the Key of Law: Transposing Musical Improvisation: The Case of Child
        Protection in NI (AHRC, Stapleton PI for QUB £176,115);
       Sounding Conflict: From Resistance to Reconciliation (AHRC, Rebelo CI £130,510);
       Europe's Reception of the Irish Melodies and National Airs: Thomas Moore in
        Europe (EC-Horizon 2020, McCleave PI £126.520);
       Producers and Production Practices in the History of Italian Cinema 1949-1975
        (AHRC, Baschiera PI for QUB £121,200);
       Detecting Transcultural Identity in European Popular Crime Narratives (EC-Horizon
        2020, Baschiera PI for QUB £96,434).

 The Unit has also played a significant role in the setup and management of the AHRC-funded
 'Northern Bridge' PGR Doctoral Training Project (Alcorn), and has secured 5 PhD studentships
 from this scheme. Significant external funding for PhD studentships is provided by DfE NI (formerly
 DEL), from which an additional 40 PhD studentships were secured by the Unit during this cycle.


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Future funding priorities will be focused on sustaining our successes with the AHRC and
 increasing income from the EPSRC through shaping the funding agenda in the council's strategic
 research area of 'Music and Acoustic Technologies' (e.g. Stapleton and van Walstijn are
 developing a workshop bid with key UK HEI partners in this area). The Unit will also seek to
 increase the diversity of international funding streams (e.g. Canada's SSHRC) in response to new
 EU funding arrangements. An additional strategic priority will be the development of the Unit’s new
 MediaLab.

 b. Organisational infrastructure and support for research & impact
 Support, both logistical and financial, is available for all research activities (including the
 production of high-quality outputs, engaged research and impact), as well as for specific work
 related to the publication process (e.g. reproduction and images rights, indexing, CD and other
 media production costs). Technical support for research is provided by a team of seven
 technicians. Three technical staff are based at SARC, and work to maintain specialist equipment
 in the Sonic Lab, Broadcast Production Studio, Fabrication and Interaction Labs, VR/AR Studio,
 AV Computer Suite, Surround Sound Studios and addition audio production studios along with
 related equipment stores. Two technicians maintain the Film Studio, editing facilities and related
 equipment store, and two technicians maintain the Brian Friel Theatre, rehearsal spaces, and
 related equipment store. Additionally, the technical team maintains facilities, musical instruments
 and other specialist equipment in the Music Building, including the Harty Room concert hall. The
 technical team also manages recording studios and practice room facilities in the Main Site Tower
 adjacent to the Music Building.

 The AEL research budget, overseen by the DR, is partly devolved to the Arts CDRG who decides
 how funds will be dispersed according to strategic priorities. Individual staff members are
 supported by a School research and conference fund where individuals can apply for up to £1200
 pa to support research and conference attendance in the UK, Europe, and worldwide (including
 staff employed on fixed-term contracts). Funded PGR students have access to up to £1k pa for
 conference and research plans, and ECRs are entitled to a start-up package (of up to £5k for their
 3-year probationary period) to spend on research-related activities. A new fund for engaged
 research was established in 2019-20 to fund impact-facing activities. In order to incentivise grant
 capture, the university made available to the PI 2% of the total amount awarded in an individual
 research account for the grant holder to spend on research activities such as pilot projects
 underpinning future grant applications.

 c. Operational infrastructure, facilities and specialist equipment
 Staff in the Unit are spread out across several locations across the main university campus site.
 Music staff are split between the Music Building on the main site and the nearby SARC building.
 Drama staff are located on University Square, including shared facilities with the Queen's Film
 Theatre. Film, Broadcast and Screen Media are located across both University Square and SARC
 sites.

 In this REF cycle, the value of new operational infrastructure, facilities and specialist equipment
 investment in the Unit totalled over £2.5m (£1.6m equipment, £940k infrastructure). Major new
 investments and upgrades during the assessment period include:

       New Film Studio (£774,624 total for infrastructure and equipment), completed 2017, 90%
        funded by DfE NI and 10% from University Reserves;
       3rd Floor Refurbishment of SARC (£242,782 infrastructure spend), completed 2016,
        including PhD lab, computer lab, AV editing suite, breakout rooms, postdoc shared office
        and additional staff offices, funded by University Reserves;
       New Broadcast Production Studio (£220,738 total for infrastructure and equipment),
        completed 2017, supported by the AHSS Faculty Equipment Fund and Queen's Estates
        budget;
       Dolby Atmos surround sound upgrade to the Sonic Lab and Surround Studio 1 at
        SARC (£152,850), completed 2017, supported by AHSS faculty funds;


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       New AR/VR equipment at SARC (£43,661), delivered 2019, supported through a
        successful bid to QUB's Central Research Infrastructure Fund;
       Upgrade to the Harty Room concert hall (£31,860 infrastructure & equipment), including
        new AV facilities, completed 2018, funded by the Nellie A Baguley Music Fund and
        Queen's Estates budget;
       Upgrade to equipment in the Fabrication Lab at SARC (£25,109), delivered 2018,
        including new 3D printing, PCB and laser cutting facilities.

 The value of equipment spend supported by School and Faculty funds totalled just over £1m,
 which included an upgrade of energy efficient LED-based stage lighting for both the Sonic Lab
 and Brian Friel Theatre. AEL staff start-up funds provided £9k of specialist equipment for ECRs.
 Income from external research grants also contributed £54k towards new equipment. In addition
 to the Harty Room upgrade, Music Bequests funded £8k in other targeted equipment and
 infrastructure.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 a. Summary of research contribution
 The Unit continues to play a leading role in advancing artistic disciplines regionally, nationally, and
 internationally. This has been achieved through significant individual contributions and extensive
 academic and professional collaborations. Our reputation has been built on successes in the areas
 of practice-as-research, critical scholarship, and interdisciplinary research, with much of this work
 disseminated in partnership with public institutions, professional artists, arts organisations, and
 wider industries. The Unit is also committed to shaping the future artistic agenda for Ireland, as
 evidenced by the production of significant outputs focused on Irish arts and culture as well as
 through close collaboration with key cross-island organisations in this sector.

 b. Artistic practice-as-research
 The Unit is a recognised leader in practice-as-research (PaR), and has developed this expertise
 as part of its wider acceptance alongside the steady increase of practising artist-researchers
 employed in HEIs internationally. Notable achievements in this context include:

 Music Composition: In addition to Hellawell's work discussed in Section 1, including his BBC
 Proms commission Wild Flow (2016) for full orchestra, other notably outputs in instrumental
 composition include In All the Worlds (Mawhinney 2016) for viola d'amore and string quartet,
 commissioned by Garth Knox for performance with Quatuor Bela (Paris). Mawhinney's works have
 been performed in academic and professional contexts including at Magdalen College, Oxford
 (2014) and the Rekjavik Arts Festival (2014). Hellawell was elected as a member of the Council
 of Royal Musical Association (2016-2019) during which time he co-designed the RMA Composers'
 Competition (2019), and has been a guest speaker at composer series programmes at University
 of York (2018), and University of Oxford (2018). Music also has a strong track record in
 electroacoustic composition (Alcorn, Rebelo, Waters), with notable works including Line (Waters
 2018) a multichannel sound installation with live alto flute feedback instrument, premiered at
 Turner Contemporary Margate as part of Oscillate Festival – a programme of new work from
 Orpheus Instituut in Ghent, where Waters is an Associate Researcher. Also significant is a
 composition by Alcorn for the video installation Outland developed in collaboration with Maltese
 video artist Vince Briffa and premiered at the 2019 Venice Biennale.

 Performance in Drama: In addition to Schoch's scholarly work in the area of 'Performing
 Restoration Shakespeare' in partnership with Folger Shakespeare Library/Theatre (USA) and
 Shakespeare’s Globe (UK), and McGrath's practice-as-research project 'Dance and the Maternal',
 contributions in this area have been made in Applied Drama (Grant, Taroff). Grant was PI for the
 AHRC-funded 'Objects with Objectives: a puppetry in applied drama research network' with
 academics and practitioners from the UK and Ireland, South Africa, the United States and
 Australia. Commemorative theatre project 'Medals All-Around Research Initative' (Taroff) was a
 key part of the AHRC-funded First World War Engagement Centre, Living Legacies 1914-18, led

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by QUB in partnership with Ulster University, Glasgow, Swansea, Goldsmiths, and Newcastle
 University.

 Documentary Film, Television and Radio: The Prison Memory Archive (see the open access
 section of Section 1) has formed the basis of McLaughlin's documentary film Armagh Stories:
 Voices from the Gaol (2015) and his associated Memory Studies journal article ‘Memory, Place
 and Gender [...]’ (2020). In addition to McLaughlin's contributions in this area, Delaney has likewise
 produced a significant body of documentary-based creative research, including: Great
 Lighthouses of Ireland (2018) 4-part TV series broadcast by RTE (1million+ audience views), as
 well as High Heels and Horses (2016), and The Whistleblower (2019) RTE radio documentaries
 (the latter of which has 750k downloads and audience ratings). In 2020, The Whistleblower made
 the shortlist for the Amnesty International Global Media Awards and won a New York Festivals
 Radio Awards Silver Medal in the Human Rights category. Delaney also won an additional Silver
 Medal in the Medical category for High Heels and Horses in the same year. Other notable PaR
 activity in this area includes experimental video work by O'Sullivan Long Distance (2016).

 Improvisation: Ens Ekt trio features Stapleton's custom designed instruments performed in
 collaboration with saxophonist Simon Rose and double bassist Adam Pultz Melbye. The group
 has released multiple recordings, performed frequently in Berlin's Echtzeitmusik scene, and
 completed two tours: 7 UK venues including IKLECTIC in London and Sussex Humanities Lab
 (2018), and 7 venues in California including Center for New Music in San Francisco and Center
 for Computer Research in Music and Acoustics at Stanford University (2019). Ens Ekt were also
 commissioned through the Berlin Cultural Senate’s 'Initiative Neue Musik' programme to create a
 site-specific installation and improvised performances in a WW2 communication bunker (2019).
 Schroeder released Barely Cool on pfMENTUM (2015), an album of collaborative improvisations
 with Brazilian artists recorded during an ethnographic study funded in part by HEA. Schroeder's
 additional activities include: an invited solo performance with the Canadian Quasar Saxophone
 Quartet, Amphithéâtre du Gesù, Montreal (2016), a concert at SARC with 11 leading female
 performers including members of the Female Laptop Orchestra (UK), Women in Music Tech
 (USA), WoNoMute (Norway), Sonora (Brazil) and Yorkshire Sound Women Network (UK) (2018),
 and performances as part of Exploratorium Berlin's improvisation symposium series (2016 with
 keynote, 2017, 2018, and January 2020 in collaboration with Stapleton).

 Participative Sound Art: The 'Map a Voice' project led by Bulut explores the sonic and social
 interactions between human voice and physical environment, with practical workshops at King's
 College London (2017), Cornell University (2017), and SARC (2018). D'Arcy's research explores
 Irish literature and the voice through participative sound art in collaboration with local choirs
 (Belfast City Choir 2014, HIVE Choir 2018-20), public art commissions (Tolka Chorus Dublin 2015)
 and through invited workshops (City University of London 2019). In addition to Rebelo's work
 outlined in Section 1, the participative installation artwork Som da Maré (2014) was created in
 partnership with Muse da Maré in Rio de Janeiro. Rebelo is a recognised expert in this field, and
 is regularly invited to give talks on his work, including at: University of Cambridge (2014),
 Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro (2014); Universidade de São Paulo (2016), City University
 of London (2018), New York University (2018), and Aarhus University (2019).

 c. Critical, cultural and historical research in the arts
 The Unit has continued to play a leading role in a broad range of critical, cultural and historical
 fields, reshaping how we understand the past and present and thus opening up new possible
 futures. Notable achievements in this area include:

 Dance, Drama and Theatre Studies: specialisms in this area include: Gender and Class Politics
 (McTighe, McGrath, Murphy, Phelan), Monodrama (Taroff), Breton Theatre and Enlightenment
 Philosophy (Urban-Devereux) and British Theatre (Schoch). Schoch's monograph Writing the
 History of the British Stage 1600-1900 (2016) was a finalist for the Theatre Library Association
 Book Award (USA, 2017). Schoch is a member of the Shakespeare in Performance Working
 Group (American Society for Theatre Research), Performance Research Caucus (American
 Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies), Folger Institute (Folger Shakespeare Library, USA) and

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 was on the organising committee for the British Shakespeare Association's 2018 annual
 international conference hosted at QUB. Schoch is a recognised leader in this field, with invited
 talks including at Folger Shakespeare Library (2018), Duke University Humanities Institute (2017),
 and Duke University Department of Theatre (2018). McGrath is co-convener of the International
 Federation of Theatre Research (IFTR) Choreography and Corporeality Working Group, a leading
 international working group for dance scholars, and has convened meetings in Barcelona,
 Belgrade, Stockholm and Warwick, and co-curated a 'local connections' programme for meetings
 in Sao Paulo, Hyderabad, and Beijing.

 Film, Broadcast, and Screen Media: The Unit is well represented in the British Association of
 Film, Television and Screen Studies (Baschiera, executive committee 2014-19), with membership
 in its British Cinema, Animation and Essay Film SIGs. Membership in other associations likewise
 aligns with areas of specialism, including: International Association for Media and History (Barber),
 and European Network for Cinema and Media Studies (Baschiera, Fisher). Strengths also exist in
 the areas of African Cinema (Fisher) and Animation (Baxter, Haswell, Mollaghan), with a critical
 mass in Documentary (Baxter, Delaney, McLaughlin, O'Rawe, O'Sullivan). The CDR organised a
 one-day conference in 2017 on 'Citizenship and Surveillance: the camera as witness', with
 speakers from Germany, Greece, Brazil, UK, and plenary speaker Soumyaa Behrens (USA); and
 ’Framing Trauma: Mental Illness and the Documentary Image’, a Wellcome-Trust funded
 symposium held at the MAC with Belfast Film Festival (2016, O’Rawe). Other key events include
 the 2018 symposium on 'Labour in the Screen Industries' at QUB (Baschiera), with invited
 international presenters from Australia and USA.

 Musicology: the Unit has considerable research strengths in Historical Musicology, with particular
 expertise in 18th Century and early 19th Century Studies (McCleave, Tomita, Woodfield, Waters).
 Woodfield's monograph Cabals and Satires: Mozart's Comic Operas in Vienna (2019) is a notable
 output in this area. Tomita is a longstanding member of the Bach Network, and Senior Fellow at
 the Bach-Archiv Leipzig, and was awarded a Martha Goldsworthy Arnold Fellowship from Baldwin
 Wallace University (2018). Waters' expertise in early woodwind design has been recognised by
 invited keynotes including at the Horniman Museum London (2017) and Library of Congress
 Washington DC (2018). McCleave holds the Howard D. Rothschild Fellowship in Dance (awarded
 in 2020 by the Houghton Library, Harvard University). Her current research project - 'Fame and
 the Female Dancer: the development of the theatrical dance profession 1720-1860' - was funded
 by the Leverhulme Foundation in 2019. McCleave's work described in section 1 is connected to a
 broader specialism in Historical and Contemporary Song, which includes the work of Robb who
 has given an invited talk on 'Mobilising the 1848 song Tradition in Germany in the context of
 International Folk Revivals' at University of Newcastle (2014), and a plenary paper for the network
 conference ‘European Song and Political Protest: To the Barricades! 1815-1850’ at University of
 Warwick (2018). Bulut is a member of the Society of Ethnomusicology, Voice Studies Special
 Interest Group (2013-20). In recognition of her expertise on this topic, Bulut has been invited to
 give research talks at Duke University (2015), Harvard (2015), UCL (2016), Oxford (2017), Paris
 8 Vincennes - Saint-Denis (2018), Cambridge (2018), and in 2019 she co-convened a one-day
 workshop on 'Voice and Environment' at the ICI Berlin Institute for Cultural Inquiry.

 Arts and Cultural Policy: the Unit has expertise in policy relating to censorship in moving image
 (Barber) and theatre (Robb) contexts. Barber’s interview to the Observer drew on her published
 article on local film censorship (2019). Robb has given an invited talk and performance at the
 University of Edinburgh as part of the ARHC-funded project 'Who's Watching Who?' on issues
 surrounding censorship and East German theatre (2014). Another area of strength is in cultural
 leadership of UK funded theatre (FitzGibbon). FitzGibbon co-authored a policy piece with
 ethnomusicologist Ioannis Tsioulakis in April 2020 titled ‘Performing Artists in the age of COVID-
 19: A moment of urgent action and potential change’, which has already been cited extensively.

 d. Interdisciplinary research contributions
 The Unit is a recognised leader in interdisciplinary research, as exemplified by the following
 achievements:


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 SARC has a strong reputation in the interdisciplinary field of musical instrument design, created
 through individual collaborations involving Schroeder, Stapleton, Waters, Ortiz (Lecturer of
 Education), Van Walstijn (Audio Engineering), Rodger (Psychology), together with a sizable
 number of PhDs, postdocs and visiting scholars in this area. Waters was an invited speaker at
 NIME 2014 conference (Goldsmith’s), and was the keynote speaker for SMC 2017 (Aalto,
 Helsinki), where he is also a member of the Sound and Physical Interaction research group.
 Schroeder was Paper Chair for NIME 2020 (Birmingham, online). Mehes, Van Walstijn, and
 Stapleton won best poster demo award for NIME 2017 (Aalborg, Copenhagen), Stapleton's
 expertise in this area is evidenced by invited talks on his instrument design and performance
 research at various institutions, for example, UC San Diego (2015), Queen Mary (2018), Université
 de Montréal (2018), University of Virginia (2019), and University of Nottingham's Mixed Reality
 Lab (2020). Stapleton co-organised the 2017 'Interagency in Technologically-Mediated
 Performance Conference' with Tom Davis at Bournemouth. Schroeder directs the Performance
 Without Barriers research group in collaboration with external partners Drake Music NI and Hard
 Rain Soloist Ensemble, with notable outputs including a special issue of Contemporary Music
 Review (2019).

 SARC's expertise in music technology are also evidenced by Rebelo's invited talks, for example,
 at the Universidade de São Paulo (2016), 'International Iberian Nanotechnology Laboratory Arts
 and Science Gala' (2017), and 'International Symposium for Electronic Arts' in Columbia (2017).
 More recently, SARC has developed strengths in areas relating to hearing and listening. Agus'
 expertise in hearing and perception has been combined with Corrigan's (Lecturer of Education)
 extensive experience in audio engineering to study 'Adapting Audio Mixes for Hearing
 Impairments' (2017). D'Arcy is a member of the Audio Diversity Network, and Bulut has given an
 invited talk on 'Voicing Infrasound' at 'Sensing the Sonic: Histories of Hearing Differently (1800-
 now)' (CRASSH, Cambridge, 2018). Schroeder delivered a keynote on 'Distributed Listening' at
 the 2017 Web Audio Conference and a keynote performance with Chris Chafe (Stanford) at the
 2017 ‘Audio Mostly’ conference at Centre for Digital Music, QMU. SARC played a leading role in
 the Humanising Algorithmic Listening AHRC network (Co-I Stapleton, PI Alice Eldridge University
 of Sussex, network participants Waters, Agus, Schroeder, 2017).

 Interdisciplinary collaborations with the Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice
 have strengthened the Unit's existing expertise in post-conflict theatre, film and media arts.
 Film, Drama, and Arts Management are involved as CIs in major (£580k) grant based at University
 of Liverpool, ‘The Art of Reconciliation: Do Reconciliation-Funded Arts Projects Transform
 Conflict?’ (Durrer, Grant, O’Rawe). Phelan has given invited talks on post-conflict theatre in NI as
 part of the 'Connecting Communities Conference' at the Federal University of Santa Catarina,
 Brazil (2015), and a keynote lecture to a delegation from the Nijmegen Center for Border
 Research, Netherlands. McLaughlin's documentary film work in this area has also been
 recognised by an invitation to contribute to 'Atrocity’s Archives: The Role of Archives in Transitional
 Justice International Workshop' at Oxford University (2018).

 The Unit also has interdisciplinary strengths in the area of Film, Broadcast, and Screen Media, in
 particular in relation to creative digital technologies as evidenced by its role in the AHRC Future
 Screens NI (Alcorn, Delaney, Schroeder), and the Vanderbilt University International Research
 Grant Initiative for ‘Exploring the Uses of Digital Mapping, Modelling, and Web-Based Resources’
 (Baschiera 2015). Other interdisciplinary research in the area of film and broadcast draw on areas
 ranging from the visual arts (Mollaghan, O’Sullivan, O’Rawe); mental health (Baxter, O’Rawe);
 and transitional justice (McLaughlin).

 Interdisciplinary research strengths in the area of arts, health and wellbeing have been
 strengthened across the Unit, as represented on Queen’s cross-faculty Mental Health Research
 Group (Baxter, Murphy, O'Rawe). Drama (Murphy) in partnership with Medicine and Social Work
 at QUB organised the 2017 & 2018 'Care Under Pressure' symposia on interdisciplinary
 approaches to simulation in health and social care education and training incorporating patient
 feedback and service user knowledge. Murphy has also provided significant input into Queen's
 plans for a new Simulation Centre. Film organised the 2015 research colloquium 'Framing Trauma:

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Mental Illness and the Documentary Image' as part of the Belfast Film Festival with support from
 the Wellcome Trust, and the 2016 'Film and the Politics of Mental Health: A Symposium' at the
 Belfast Metropolitan Arts Centre (the MAC) in partnership with the Michell Institute and the Belfast
 Film Festival. Drama has also collaborated with School of Nursing on research into the role of
 applied drama in exploring attitudes to fatherhood and relationships among young incarcerated
 men (Grant).

 The Unit has also played a leading role in the emerging interdisciplinary field of critical studies
 in improvisation. QUB's cross-faculty Translating Improvisation research group was co-founded
 by Stapleton and Sara Ramshaw (Law) in 2013, with membership including Grant, McGrath,
 Rebelo, Schroeder, and Waters. The work of this group has resulted in interdisciplinary PhD
 supervisions and funded research projects including an AHRC grant, as well as a British Academy
 Visiting Fellowship in 2018 for Rebecca Caines (Regina). Ramshaw and Stapleton have given
 invited talks on their research collaboration, for example, at the British Library (2015) and
 Georgetown University (2015).

 e. Wider academic contributions
 The Unit has also played a significant role in the advancement of disciplines aligned to our
 expertise through participation on funding committees, journal editorial boards, and other peer
 review and policy shaping activities. The Unit is well represented on the AHRC Peer Review
 College (Baschiera 2020, Grant 2017-20, McLaughlin 2017-20, Schoch 2017-20, Schroeder 2013-
 20). Other selected funding body peer reviewing includes work undertaken for the UKRI Future
 Leaders Fellowships scheme (Barber, Schoch, Schroeder), EPSRC (Agus 2018), British Academy
 (O'Rawe 2018-19, Urban-Devereux 2018-19), Leverhulme (Stapleton 2020), Government of
 Ireland GSP (Baschiera 2016-20, O'Rawe 2017-19), Australian Research Council (Rebelo 2016),
 Swiss National Science Foundation (Rebelo 2019), and the Canadian Social Sciences and
 Humanities Research Council (Rebelo 2015, Schroeder 2017-18). Rebelo was an invited speaker
 at the research policy event 'Arts and Humanities and the GCRF Agenda' (Nottingham, 2019).

 The Unit's editorial work for academic publishers is extensive, and includes editorial board
 membership of Music & Science (Agus 2018-20), Understanding Bach (Tomita 2013-17), Theatre
 Notebook (McCleave 2013-17), Shakespeare Quarterly (Schoch 2017-20), Theatre Annual (Taroff
 2015-20), Dovetail Journal (McGrath 2017-20), Irish Journal of Arts Management and Cultural
 Policy (FitzGibbon 2017-20), Samuel Beckett Today (McTighe 2017-20), Journal of British Cinema
 and Television (Barber 2018-2020), and Journal of Media Practice and Education (McLaughlin
 2013-20). Music researchers (Agus, Bulut, McCleave, Rebelo, Schroeder, Stapleton, Tomita,
 Waters) have acted as peer reviewers for 40 journals and publishers of academic books, including:
 Leonardo Music Journal, Music and Letters, Sound Studies, Computer Music Journal, and for
 Springer International Publishing. Film researchers (Baschiera, Barber, Haswell, McLaughlin,
 Mollaghan, O'Rawe) have acted as peer reviewers for 34 journals and publishers of academic
 books, including: Studies in European Cinema, Journal of British Cinema and Television,
 Animation, and Studies in Documentary Film, and for various UK and international university
 presses. Drama researchers (FitzGibbon, McGrath, McTighe, Murphy, Phelan, Schoch, Urban-
 Devereux) have acted as peer reviewers for 11 journals and publishers of academic books,
 including: Theatre Survey, Modern Philology, Theatre Annual, Health and Social Care in the
 Community, and for Cambridge UP.

 The Unit has also continued to contribute to the external examining of PhD students. During this
 REF cycle, Music researchers (Hellawell, Mawhinney, McCleave, Rebelo, Schroeder, Tomita,
 Waters, Woodfield) have externally examined 23 PhDs at 15 HEIs, including at McGill, KCL, Royal
 Holloway, and University of Sao Paulo. Film researchers (Baschiera, Barber, O'Rawe,
 McLaughlin) have externally examined 13 PhDs at 11 HEIs, including at Westminster, University
 of York, and Bristol. Drama researchers (Schoch, Murphy, Phelan, McTighe) have externally
 examined 4 PhDs at 4 HEIs, including at TCD, and Central School of Speech and Drama.




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 f. Shaping the artistic agenda for Ireland
 The Unit plays an important ambassadorial role for Irish arts and culture. Urban-Devereux co-
 convened a session at the 1st GIS EIRE symposium 'Democracy, Human Rights and Diasporic
 Strategies in Ireland: Emerging Networks and Models' (Sorbonne, 2019). McGrath co-convened
 the 3rd International Corp_Real Dance Conference at NUI Galway on 'Dance and Conflict' (funded
 by the Arts Council of Ireland, 2015)), and has given invited keynotes at the 2016 Dance Ireland
 conference (Dublin), and at two conferences at NUI Galway in 2017 and 2018. In 2019 McGrath
 became co-president of the Irish Society for Theatre Research (Phelan is also a member), and
 organised 'Co-Motion: Dance and Borders', Ireland's first all-island dance industry and research
 conference co-hosted at the Crescent Arts Centre, in partnership with Belfast International Arts
 Festival, Dance Ireland, and Dance Resource Base NI. The Unit is represented on IFTR (McGrath,
 McTighe, Phelan, Taroff), for which McTighe is the convenor of the Samuel Beckett Working
 Group. McTighe co-edited Staging Beckett in Ireland and Northern Ireland (2016). Community and
 site-specific theatre in Ireland includes Grant's work for Days in the Bay (2017) in collaboration
 with the Tiger's Bay Men’s Group in North Belfast, and Oscar Wilde at Home (2015) at Florence
 Court House, Co. Fermanagh, the latter of which was restaged in 2016 for the inaugural Irish
 Festival at the American Academy of Dramatic Arts (NYC).

 The Unit has close partnerships with the Lyric Theatre and the MAC in Belfast. Two of many such
 collaborations include Phelan's involvement in the delivery of the John Hewitt International
 Summer School in 2018 at the Lyric, as well as 'Lyric@50: Culture, Conflict and the City' (2018).
 FitzGibbon was invited as advisor and workshop facilitator for the 'Changemakers Conference' on
 change and purpose for Irish festivals, co-organised by University of Limerick and Arts Council
 Ireland (2020). Cultural Policy Observatory Ireland was co-founded in 2014 by Durrer while based
 at QUB (FitzGibbon is currently a member), and a one-day conference 'The Production of Our
 Contemporary Livelihood' was held at QUB in 2015 including a keynote by Prof. Frances Ruane
 (TCD, and former Director of the Economic and Social Research Institute), funded in part by the
 Irish Research Council.

 In addition to McLaughlin's work with PRONI, research involving cultural archives in Ireland
 includes Barber's work on Irish national broadcaster RTÉ which has led to an invited presentation
 at the 2016 FIAT/IFTA conference in Warsaw. Barber is on the steering group of the Women’s
 Film and Television History conference committee (2020 NUI Maynooth), and Barber and Baxter
 are members of the steering group of the Women’s Film and Television Network. A key strength
 of the Unit is in the area of Irish-focused documentaries (McLaughlin, Delaney, Baxter). Film,
 Broadcast and Screen Media also has sustained membership on the board of the Belfast Film
 Festival (McLaughlin 2013-2019, Baxter 2020) and the Irish Screen Studies forum (McLaughlin
 2015-18). Delaney is a founding member of the Irish Film and Television Academy, and a member
 of Screen Directors Guild Ireland and Screen Composers Guild Ireland.

 In Music, Robb has given two invited research papers in 2017 at the Irish World Academy of Music
 and Dance (Limerick); McCleave gave an invited plenary talk at the 2017 annual conference of
 the Society for Musicology in Ireland. The Unit also contributes to the work of the Irish Sound
 Science and Technology Association (D'Arcy, Stapleton). D'Arcy's practice-as-research expertise
 in exploring Irish literatures through sound art led to an Office of Public Works commission for
 Tolka Nights (2015), supported by local authorities of Dublin, Fingal and Meath. Stapleton and
 Steve Davis (composer and improviser) have received multiple commissions from the Lyric
 Theatre to develop and perform new music for the staging of Irish Poetry, including Seamus
 Heaney’s Station Island premiered at the ‘Heaney HomePlace’ in Bellaghy, Co. Derry (2017), and
 Patrick Kavanagh's The Great Hunger developed in partnership with the Patrick Kavanagh
 Resource Centre in Inniskeen (2017), Co. Monaghan. Hellawell's composition for piano trio and
 narrator Up the Roots (2016) was developed in collaboration with award-winning Irish Poet Sinéad
 Morrissey, and was released on CD by Delphian Records in May 2020.




                                                                                           Page 16
