Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Wolverhampton

 Unit of Assessment: C13: Architecture, Built Environment and Planning

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a) Context and structure

 The School of Architecture and Built Environment (SoABE) is a multidisciplinary School,
 embracing staff with expertise that spans subject areas of Architecture, Civil Engineering,
 Construction Law, Surveying, Construction Management, Environmental Sciences and Urban
 Geography. SoABE is part of the Faculty of Science and Engineering (FSE) - one of three
 Faculties at the University of Wolverhampton (UoW). SoABE has continued to grow and has
 recently moved to a new £45m state-of-the-art building at the £110m Springfield campus.
 Research is governed and managed through the Construction Futures Research Centre (CFRC),
 with work strategically distributed through two main Research Groups (RGs): ‘Digital Construction’
 [DIGITAL] and ‘Smart and Sustainable Construction’ [SSC] (Figure 1).




       Figure 1: Research Organogram: Research Centre, Research Groups and Themes

 This structure actively promotes and accelerates cross-cutting research through thematic clusters
 that engage wider participation with UoW’s non-cognate Research Centres and inter-disciplinary
 Institutes. This arrangement not only provides additional critical mass (and focus), but also
 strengthens our research enquiry to deliver world-leading research impact.

 Post-REF2014, we reflected widely on emergent research themes, strategic priorities and industry
 direction. From this, a decision was made to coalesce critical mass into clear cogent themes
 operationalised through one Research Centre (CFRC) and two RGs (DIGITAL; SSC). This
 replaced the three previous RGs ‘Construction Management’, ‘Technology and Environment’ and
 ‘Land and Property Management’ presented in the REF2014 submission. This new structure not
 only provides greater transparency and external visibility, but also promotes sentient organic
 growth across UoW’s wider research provision.

 The DIGITAL RG consolidates our digital research through six core areas, all of which support
 industry demand for rigorous and relevant research. This is evidenced through eight successful
 Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) in Building Information Modelling (BIM) and Digital
 Construction. For example, work with Severn Partnership Ltd (2010-2016) has continued to
 transform workplace practices, leading to the creation of a new department within the business
 focussing on the delivery of 3D BIM information and exploitation of Virtual Reality (VR)

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 technologies. Other success stories include the award of a Research Fellow grant from the Royal
 Academy of Engineering, and engagement with several high-profile grant capture projects such
 as Sustainability and Construction Futures Research and Innovation Centre (SCFRIC) [European
 Regional Development Fund (ERDF)] and STELLAR [UK Research and Innovation (UKRI)]. The
 SSC RG focuses on developing a range of technologies, systems, processes and frameworks
 needed to deliver smart and sustainable infrastructures. This underpinning research has been
 extended and applied thematically in data analytics, knowledge-based technologies and
 innovative business modelling. Evidence of this work can be seen through ERDF-funded projects
 such as Built Environment and Climate Change Innovations (BECCI); the Brownfield Innovation
 and Research Centre (BRIC); the Environmental Technologies and Resource Efficiency Support
 Service (EnTRESS); along with the Spatial and Transport Planning for a new Mobility Era
 (HARMONY) project [EU Horizon 2020], the Multi-source Big Data Fusion Driven Proactivity for
 Intelligent Mobility (OPTIMUM) [EU Horizon 2020], and through several British Council (BC)
 projects.

 Research focus and investment decisions are governed through emergent needs and strategic
 drivers (highlighted by governmental policies, demand-driven practice-based priorities, and
 international trends/initiatives) and by our existing research strengths, capacity and ability to build
 future strategic capability. For example, recent emerging priority areas include brownfield
 regeneration and sustainable construction to support Wolverhampton City’s vision of being at the
 forefront of urban regeneration. Other areas include smart productivity improvement measures for
 offsite design, manufacture and assembly. Priority areas are informed through a number of routes,
 including the UK Government’s Construction Sector Deal, (2019); Grand Challenges, (2019);
 Digital Built Britain, (2015); Construction 2025 (2013); Midlands Engine Strategy (2017); and
 Farmer Review (2016). Internationally, the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals
 Report (2020); the UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction’s Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk
 Reduction 2015-2030; and the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change [Paris Agreement]
 2016 stimulate new project developments. These directives and strategic challenges provide
 fertile grounds for research discovery and contributions in such areas as geo-BIM, heritage BIM,
 offsite manufacturing, brownfield regeneration, green technologies, the circular economy, energy
 economics, intelligent urban transport systems, disaster resilience and recycling technologies.
 Given this, our multi-disciplinary research with beneficiaries is focused on three tiered solutions.
 First-tier beneficiaries include direct project investors and end users; second-tier beneficiaries
 include supply chain services underpinning projects (for example, design, procurement,
 manufacturing, servitisation), and third-tier beneficiaries are wider economy and society (including
 wider societal impact stemming from publicly-funded research cf. social, cultural, environmental,
 economic measures).

 Post-REF2014, growth in research expertise and capacity led to the creation of CFRC in 2017 as
 the main conduit for the Unit’s work. Since its launch, CFRC has fostered a number of outward
 facing industrial collaboration events, including the ‘Construction Futures Forum’ series
 (December 2018; February 2020). This was complemented by the launch of its international
 conference event ‘International Conference on Construction Futures’ (ICCF) (December 2018;
 July 2020), and supported by the International Council for Research and Innovation in Building
 and Construction (CIB); including the following Working Groups: W055 Construction Industry
 Economics; W089 Education in the Built Environment; W102 Information and Knowledge
 Management in Building; W113 Law and Dispute Resolution; and W121 Offsite Construction.


 b) Performance against REF2014 research objectives and objectives for the next five years

 i) Research objectives from REF2014 and unit performance

 SoABE continually aligns and readjusts resources to support the strategic direction of the CFRC.
 In this respect, objectives are set and measured against the strategy with the explicit purpose of
 measuring performance. These indicators allow refinement to measure impact, whilst enabling
 opportunities for further strengthening our research portfolio mapped against: i) digital construction

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 technologies; ii) smart and sustainable construction. This includes cross cutting themes of green
 technologies, energy economics, environmental economics and the three pillars of sustainability
 (economic, social, environmental). Core achievements against objectives post REF2014 include:

    Attracting and retaining multi-disciplinary staff with excellent research track records and
     research potential

 Significant investment in staff appointments has been made to support CFRC. This includes four
 new professorial appointments (Arif, Goulding, Pathirage, Sheng) and seven additional academic
 staff recruitments with Significant Responsibility for Research (SRR), supported by funding from
 the Research Investment Fund phase 3. This increased staffing from 13.5 FTE to 19.2 FTE, and
 enabled CFRC to both broaden and strengthen its research base, particularly in areas such as
 offsite manufacturing, brownfield regeneration, disaster resilience and infrastructure management.
 These investments have also enhanced our PhD completion rates, income generation, and wider
 capacity to engage with larger research projects.

    Providing strong leadership throughout the research process

 SoABE has clear management systems and reporting lines to provide leadership and deliver
 effective governance. This helps facilitate maximum opportunities for research engagement at all
 levels and provides clear pathways throughout all stages of the research process. This includes a
 range of initiatives, from structures and mentoring schemes to support Early Career Researchers
 (ECR), through to high-level peer support mechanisms for senior members of the professoriate.
 To support these systems, SoABE appointed an ‘Associate Head of School’ with specific
 responsibility of providing research leadership. This has not only helped create ladders of
 opportunity for staff, but has also provided clearer conduits of communication between the two
 RG’s (DIGITAL/SSC). Further support to leadership includes the appointment of a dedicated
 Postgraduate Research (PGR) coordinator role to optimise the PGR portfolio in line with increased
 demand and capacity.

    Vigorously pursue opportunities for grant capture

 Additional appointments made post-REF2014 significantly increased our grant capture success
 rates. All staff are encouraged and supported to establish strong links with government, industry,
 professional and other external bodies. We provide support for bid writing, facilitate industry
 partnering, and engage in internal coaching and mentoring in order to increase bidding success.
 Funding calls are routinely distributed and teams assembled. Staff are also encouraged to work
 collaboratively and explore opportunities for external funding from various streams. During this
 REF reporting period, the total research income (£2.3m) has quadrupled, supported by a wide
 range of major UK and EU funding bodies such as ERDF, EU Horizon 2020, UKRI and BC.

    Review and update the directions of our research in response to emerging priorities

 Research direction and response to emerging priorities are continually reviewed in line with our
 capacity and governing research strategy. SoABE’s current research portfolio focuses on two main
 areas: digital construction technologies, and smart and sustainable construction. Both allow cross-
 fertilisation of themes such as green technologies, energy economics, environmental economics,
 sustainability and regeneration. Research restructuring post REF2014 allowed for these to be
 more actively supported through the CFRC and two RG’s. This led organically to the development
 of the two Impact Case Studies (ICS) supporting this submission. Our forward plans over the next
 five years are to prioritise research and impact in brownfield regeneration and sustainable
 construction, working closely with Wolverhampton City Council, the Black Country Local
 Enterprise Partnership (LEP) and West-Midlands Combined Authority (WMCA) to establish a
 National Brownfield Institute (NBI). In this respect, we have just secured a £14.9m capital grant
 from the Government’s ‘Getting Building Fund’ to support this priority area.



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Use our expertise to maintain the currency of taught postgraduate courses and to offer new
     and innovative courses

 SoABE continues to reflect upon its postgraduate provision in line with market drivers, emergent
 issues and research capacity. Over the REF reporting period, we introduced several new and
 innovative postgraduate taught courses, including an MSc Offsite Housing Construction and MSc
 Demolition Management. All these programmes stemmed from market demand, underpinned by
 enviable industry support from regional, national and international stakeholders. For example, the
 MSc Offsite Housing Construction programme was designed to address housing demand through
 innovative and modern methods of construction with offsite production and design technologies,
 supported through SCFRIC; and the MSc Demolition Management programme stemmed from the
 need to meet the growing demand for richer and deeper understanding of the management of the
 demolition process, supported by our expertise in brownfield regeneration research. Combined,
 these new programmes cover the full spectrum of construction and the circular economy, from
 cradle to cradle.

    Design and deliver training and Continuous Professional Development (CPD) events in
     collaboration with appropriate professional institutions and societies and training organisations

 SoABE has clear and direct collaboration and impact pathways with a range of external
 stakeholders, from professional institutions and industry partners, through to wider research and
 trade organisations. This close collaboration enables us to deliver research-informed training and
 CPD events in line with need/emergent issues. Examples include ‘Local Authority Building Control’
 (LABC) training, including the provision of a Building Control Surveying degree apprenticeship
 programme. A total of 130 employees from LABC have received training so far. Training and CPD
 events have also included topics on offsite manufacturing, BIM, visualisation, and over 300
 attendees have been trained. In addition, SoABE has also been at the forefront of designing and
 delivering several degree apprenticeship courses and has been championing several trailblazer
 groups responsible for developing apprenticeship standards. These measures have been strong
 exemplars of unit performance and research benefitting industry.

 ii) Objectives for the next five years

 CFRC’s vision is to be an innovative and agile centre of excellence engaged in integrated
 architecture, built environment, and civil engineering delivery; applying an industry facing people-
 centric approach to research which applies outputs with real impact to local, national and
 international communities. The raison d'être underpinning this is the need to create maximum
 impact from our research investment. This vision also underpins the ethos of Goal 11 “Make cities
 inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable” of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
 Report 2020. In this respect, our objectives are framed to shape and inform decisions, policy and
 practice, and enhance societal impact for all. SoABE’s research strategy is, therefore, divested
 through three main conduits: “Facilitation”, “Creation” and “Dissemination” (Figure 2); where
 “Facilitation” is delivered through the CFRC, NBI and Construction Futures Incubator; knowledge
 “Creation” is leveraged through the DIGITAL and SSC RG’s; and “Dissemination” is
 operationalised through the CFF, ICCF and SoABE provisions (professional practice
 boards/committees).




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                            SCHOOL of ARCHITECTURE and BUILT ENVIRONMENT
                                                          Leading Construction into the Future




                                        Construction Futures Research Centre (CFRC)
           FACILITATION




                                                                                                                                   FACILITATION
                           NBI
                                    Climate Chamber Energy Lab 3D Printing Lab/Structures Simulation Gamification Innovation Lab



                                                       Construction Futures Incubator



                           Digital Construction Research Group                     Smart and Sustainable Construction
           CREATION




                                                                                                                                   CREATION
                                         (DIGITAL)                                       Research Group (SSC)

                           INDIVIDUAL STAFF, RESEARCH and TEACHING                 INDIVIDUAL STAFF, RESEARCH and TEACHING
                                ENTRESS / KTP’s / SCFRIC, STELLAR                     BECCI / ENTRESS / BRIC (NBI) / SCFRIC




                                                 Construction Futures Forum (CFF)
                                                                        Industry
           DISSEMINATION




                                                                                                                                   DISSEMINATION
                                 International Conference on Construction Futures (ICCF)
                                                                Industry and Academia


                                                             SoABE Provisions
                                   CIOB RICS RIBA CIB CIAT JBM CIEH (Professional Practice Boards and Committees)



                                           Figure 2: SoABE Research Strategy

 SoABE’s research objectives and impact strategy will focus on consolidating the UoA’s position
 as a centre of excellence in our core areas of research. In doing so, we provide a turnkey portfolio
 which offers high impact solutions across the three-tiered delivery solutions of influence. This
 strategy was developed in close collaboration with our stakeholders, and includes the following
 objectives:

    1.    Critically evaluate the research landscape in DIGITAL and SSC to pattern match existing
          skills and expertise against current and future needs;
    2.    Create cogent systems for the exploitation and dissemination of research impact against
          the three-tiered delivery solutions [first-tier beneficiaries – (direct project investors and
          end users); second-tier beneficiaries (supply chain services underpinning projects), and
          third-tier beneficiaries (societal stakeholders)];
    3.    Systemically optimise all governance mechanisms to provide not only a vibrant, dynamic
          and sustainable research environment and culture for staff/students/stakeholders, but
          also provide clear, accessible and inclusive measures for wider inclusivity and
          engagement;
    4.    Ensure research is proactively managed and directly aligned to support teaching,
          knowledge transfer, and enterprise portfolios;
    5.    Provide clear pathway opportunities for all SoABE staff, with clear mentoring and support
          systems which underpin and promotes research excellence; and
    6.    Promote increased engagement with funding bodies, research organisations,
          professional bodies and industry not only to create synergies and critical mass, but also
          help strengthen and increase future grant capture opportunities.


 c) How the unit has enabled and facilitated the achievement of impact from research

 CFRC is firmly committed to maximising all impact achievements across its research investments.
 In doing so, it carefully considers and evaluates all pathway to impact conduits, along with

                                                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mitigation strategies and methods for securing maximum visibility. This approach aligns with
 UoW’s Strategic Plan 2016-2021, its Impact Statement (Innovation and Opportunity: our Impact),
 and wider external drivers.

 Our reach is designed to be achieved through thematic collaboration and geographical extension.
 Over the course of the REF period, we have engaged with over 200 businesses, more than 25
 governmental institutions in 18 different countries. All these are central to our two Impact Case
 Studies. The first (ICS1), led by Georgakis, is entitled ‘Delivering smart and sustainable
 infrastructure’ and the second (ICS2), led by Heesom, is called ‘Delivering optimal solutions to
 enhance organisational capability’. ICS1 is based on research in developing technologies,
 systems and theoretical frameworks that can support the realisation of smart and sustainable
 infrastructure. It represents the themes and research done within SSC RG and key beneficiaries
 included policy makers on sustainable and intelligent transportation systems, emergency service
 providers, energy companies and communities. ICS2 relates to bespoke activities and holistic
 interventions covering the three core pillars of people, process and technology and it represents
 the research themes within DIGITAL RG. The freshness of the approach is that it spans people,
 process, technology, systems and theory. Practise change emerges from these, as beneficiaries
 use research findings to improve culture, design, manufacture and construction. The achievement
 of impact is strategically facilitated and supported through research workload allocation, annual
 performance reviews, publication of staff profiles and operationalised dissemination pathways
 such as CFF and ICCF.


 d) Supporting interdisciplinary research in the context of the unit’s research strategy

 Our research strategy underlines the importance of interdisciplinary and collaborative research
 working. Interdisciplinary research undertaken is intrinsic to CFRC, as we integrate our research
 efforts with multiple research teams across the University. Nowhere is this more in evidence than
 our partnership with Engineering and Sciences.

 Chinyio’s and Suresh’s work on how Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs) in construction
 manage risk led them to collaborate with colleagues in Engineering and secure funding from the
 EU-FP7 for the ‘Risk Management Software Systems for SMEs in the Construction Industry’
 (RiMaCon) Project. Staff also work closely with colleagues in Engineering on the development
 and testing of materials, including novel bio-materials. Williams (School of Sciences) is part of the
 BRIC Project and supports SMEs in terms of chemical testing of materials, especially soil
 geochemistry. Several colleagues from both Schools (Engineering and Sciences) are joint-
 supervisors of many of our current PhD students and have done so for many years. Working
 closely together through shared facilities, joint seminars, bidding and regular sandpits to address
 interdisciplinary research challenges, enhances the vitality and sustainability of the work that these
 subjects do. The bond is sustainable and is set to last long into the future.


 e) Progress towards an open research environment

 The CFRC aims to exceed the REF’s Open Access Policy requirements and encourages effective
 sharing and management of research data. In accordance with UoW’s Open Access Policy, all
 staff and students are required to place research publications on the institutional repository within
 three months of acceptance for publication. UoW has introduced a research information system
 (Elements) to not only capture researchers’ outputs and profile, but also consolidate its research
 data management presence to support safe sharing of research data. Library services are very
 proactive in helping the team to maximise the dissemination of their research outputs. Staff are
 required and supported to have an ORCID account and are strongly encouraged to add
 publications to appropriate academic websites such as ResearchGate, Academia, LinkedIn and
 Google Scholar. We also undertake the following, beyond the minimum:



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Enabling open access for outputs beyond the scope of the minimum policy requirements,
        for example, ERDF project reports, case studies;
       Wider activity to encourage the sharing and management of research data- we host several
        open access specialist scholarly archival collections that support research both within UoW
        and beyond. The database that holds the laser scans of buildings around the West
        Midlands region by bringing together data from BRIC, SCFRIC and work in heritage BIM,
        is one example for our open access databases.


 f) Supporting research integrity

 Maintaining a strong research culture in which staff are empowered both to conduct excellent
 research and conduct themselves according to appropriate ethical, legal and professional
 frameworks, obligations and standards, is imperative for the CFRC. There is strong support for a
 culture of research integrity and this is practiced throughout the Unit and its governance
 committees, such as the Ethics Committee. There is a stipulated process for staff to obtain ethical
 approval for their research and staff are required to undertake mandatory e-Learning modules
 every two years on topics including information security, the General Data Protection Regulation
 (GDPR), and unconscious bias. Most staff are members of many professional bodies (for example,
 the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors [RICS] and Chartered Institute of Building [CIOB]),
 that demand adherence to professional ethics, standards and Codes of Conduct. We are also
 supported by the UoW’s Research Policy Unit (RPU), who have developed the ‘Code of Good
 Research Practise’ to articulate the importance of integrity and rigour in all research conducted at,
 and in partnership with, UoW.

 2. People


 a) Staffing strategy and staff development

 SoABE is committed to creating a vibrant, dynamic and sustainable research environment and
 culture for all staff and students. To support this, a new ‘Associate Head of School- Research’ was
 appointed post REF2014 to provide leadership and strategy to create an enviable research
 environment conducive of innovative and impactful research. Following REF2014, SoABE made
 a strategic decision to invest, attract and recruit senior research staff, and encourage and support
 ECRs to advance in their research trajectory. Four new professorial appointments and seven
 academic recruitments with SRR resulted in expansion of UoA up to 19.2 FTE’s in total. From a
 staff base perspective, this includes: six professors (all male), four readers (three male/ one
 female) and nine lecturer/senior lecturers (seven male / two female) with SRR. In addition, our
 research is rigorously managed and supported by four project managers, six knowledge transfer
 managers, ten research assistants and dedicated administrative staff.

 i) Staff development strategy

 Demonstrating commitment to the career progression of staff, SoABE encouraged experienced
 researchers to apply for promotion to Senior Lecturer/ Reader positions, to ensure there is a
 smooth succession when more experienced researchers retire in due course. Chinyio, Georgakis
 and Suresh were promoted to Reader positions during the REF reporting period having
 demonstrated the appropriate level of research excellence, leadership and international
 recognition through external peer review. Qasim, who joined us as a research assistant, was
 recruited as a lecturer during the REF period allowing him to progress in his career pathway.
 Having a range of prestigious and competitive individual research profiles, including a strong
 portfolio of university degrees and professional fellowships, is a key strength of our staff. These
 enrich the profile and experience of SoABE and are especially valuable in developing collaborative
 research networks, in both national and international arenas and with academic, industrial and
 government partners. A mentor, a senior researcher, is appointed to all our new recruits and


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ECR’s, to advise and support development and career advancement. Staff are also encouraged
 and supported to undertake CPD training relevant to their career development.

 ii) Early career researchers

 Research targets are agreed with appraisers annually during personal development discussion
 and take into account the amount of research time allocated. In addition, colleagues are
 encouraged to apply for further research hours from UoW’s ‘Early Career Researcher Award
 Scheme’ (ERAS). The Scheme is for any member of staff in UoW who has achieved a Doctoral
 qualification (or equivalent) within the last five years and who wishes to pursue an identified
 research project over a 12 months (or 24 months for part-time staff) period. In the REF census
 period, three colleagues (Bock, Gupta, Saini) have received ERAS awards and additional time to
 conduct research. UoW also operates the Lord Paul Fellowship Scheme to support ECRs by
 providing seed money for their research and a bespoke career development programme to nurture
 future leaders. Daniel won this Fellowship in May 2020 for his project on off-site and lean
 construction.

 Visiting researchers make very important and welcome contributions to the research activities of
 CFRC and are actively encouraged to contribute to seminar discussions and to present seminars.
 An excellent exemplar is the ‘Built Environment and Engineering Research Seminars’ (BEERS)
 series, which is organised by CFRC. Most visiting scholars are from overseas, thus enriching the
 diversity and international perspectives of research within CFRC. Some of the visits during the
 REF census period included:

     Tanta University, Egypt, 2014-2016
     Universiti Sains Malaysia, Malaysia, 2018
     State University of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 2018-2019
     Yunnan Agricultural University, China, 2018-2019


 b) PGR students: support mechanisms, training and supervision

 i) Recruitment

 The success of our PGR portfolio is key to quality and growth in research and creating a vital and
 vibrant environment for research student community is central to their success. SoABE has a
 dedicated PGR Coordinator, in addition to the Faculty level PGR Director, ensuring smooth
 running of PGR admissions, inductions, progressions, completions and skills development. A total
 of 127 (104 Full-time and 23 Part-time) PGR students was recruited during REF period.

 Many PGR students are on secondment from their employment, often from overseas universities
 and their career progression is enhanced upon their return. Funders of prestigious and competitive
 studentships include: The Governments of Iraq, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates
 and the Commonwealth Scholarship Fund. During REF period, over 50% of completed PhD
 projects had received funding through sponsorships/ competitive studentships. These students
 make a valued contribution to PGR culture and research work. A good example is that of a
 Commonwealth scholar who joined from Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Nigeria in
 2014 to undertake her PhD research in Civil Engineering. The successful PhD was submitted
 within three years of study (January 2014-January 2017). She also completed a PGCert in Higher
 Education (HE) and became a Fellow of Higher Education Academy (FHEA).

 ii) Monitoring and support

 Experienced staff are selected to be the Director of Studies (DoS) of PhD programmes. This
 means the DoS has successfully supervised at least one PhD project to completion. The DoS is
 teamed up with at least one second supervisor. Inexperienced and/or new staff are provided
 training on the ‘Research Supervisor Development Programme’ of the UoW’s Doctoral College

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (DC), that consists of training sessions and workshops, before appointing them to supervisory
 teams with experienced supervisors.

 Annual Progress Reviews (APRs) are conducted to monitor progress and provide a personal
 development plan to all PhD students. APRs are conducted by two academics independent of the
 supervisory team and students are encouraged to discuss any concerns they may have on any
 subject, providing a support mechanism, whether academic or pastoral in nature, for PGRs. There
 is strong evidence of the high quality of training and supervision of PGRs: 59 PhD projects
 completed during the REF census period, thus doubling the number of PhD completions compared
 to REF2014. We also improved the mean completion rate-per-FTE, whilst maintaining a healthy
 student satisfaction experience (Table 1).

                       Table 1: PhD completions in comparison to REF2014

      Doctoral             Doctoral         Doctoral       Doctoral         PRES2019
      completions          completion per   completions    completion per   overall
      for REF2014          FTE REF2014      for REF2021    FTE REF 2021     satisfaction
      28                   2.07             59             3.07             78.6%


 The 2017 and 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Surveys (PRES) reported a ca.79%
 satisfaction rating from our PGR students. Both ‘supervisor skills and knowledge’, and ‘student
 skills development’ scored over 90% satisfaction. This is further evidence of the high quality of
 PGR training and supervision.

 iii) Skills development

 All SoABE PGR students are members of the UoW’s DC that provides a comprehensive and
 holistic face-to-face and online development programme for Postgraduate Researchers. The
 personal and professional development opportunities for research students are spread throughout
 the duration of the research degree. The DC works in collaboration with other University services,
 including careers and employability, learning information services and the Students Union to
 enhance the postgraduate experience.

 The BEERS seminar series is central to dissemination of good research practice by PGR students
 in the CFRC. It commenced in October 2006 and the seminar in May 2021 will mark the 100th
 seminar in the Series. Each PGR student is expected to make two presentations during the course
 of their research. The forum accommodates diverse researchers, from new starters to students
 near completion, and provides collective support and constructive criticism of individual research
 projects. During the COVID-19 pandemic, seminars are being held virtually.

 PGR students presented and disseminated their research findings at International conferences.
 The two most attended conferences were the ‘International Conference on Sustainable Futures
 (ICSF)’, 2017 in Bahrain and the first ICCF (2018) in Wolverhampton, UK. Several of our PGR
 students have won prizes for their work at international conferences; for example, the paper
 entitled ‘Evaluating critical success factors for implementing renewable energy strategies in the
 Dominican Republic’ won the APM best paper award at ICSF. Each PGR student is allocated a
 total of £1,500 to attend an important conference in their second or third year or attend external
 training sessions.

 Several of our PhD students have successfully completed their PGCert in HE and have
 subsequently become members of FHEA. This training, mentoring and subsequent membership
 has provided unparalleled opportunities for engaging in teaching or acting as Visiting Lecturers;
 which inter alia prepares them for future career opportunities. Annually, the DC runs a PGR
 employability conference, including workshops on preparing job applications and mock interviews
 and many SoABE students use these services.


                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 c) Equality and diversity: support and promotion

 The issues of equality and diversity are of paramount importance to UoW and SoABE. We are
 fully committed to the advancement of equality and the elimination of unlawful and unfair
 discrimination and to treat all staff and students with respect, in order to provide a positive
 environment free from discrimination, harassment or victimisation. SoABE values the benefits that
 a diverse student and staff population brings to its culture.

 The commitment to diversity and equal opportunities is given a very high priority by SoABE.
 Examples of our commitment to equality and diversity are given below:

       We have increased the proportion of female staff submitted for REF. In this submission
        there are three female (16% of FTE) staff, compared to only one female (7% of FTE) staff
        submitted in REF2014. Obi joined as a Lecturer and was promoted to a Senior Lecturer
        and Suresh was promoted as a Reader in this REF census period.
       SoABE contributed to UoW’s application for the Athena SWAN Bronze award, which was
        renewed in 2020. One of our female staff (Suresh) championed the UoW’s Athena SWAN
        subject specific (Built Environment) group.
       The diversity of the staff (10 different national origins) submitted for REF2021 provides
        further evidence of the School’s commitment to champion diversity and equality and see
        them as integral to the vitality of the Unit. Our submission is enhanced by its ethnic diversity
        and 75% of submitted staff are BAME.
       CFRC implemented a ‘Gender Equality Action Plan’ (GEAP) in 2018 and this plan is being
        actively promoted. The long-term aim is to achieve Athena SWAN Gold status.
       We have organised many seminars, events and workshops raising awareness on gender
        equality and career progression for staff, students and industry. Recent examples include:
        o ‘Women in Property and Construction (2017), 13 speakers shared their experience
        o International Women Day events held in 2018, 2019, 2020
        o Inclusive Careers Conference Workshop (2019)
       All staff undergo mandatory training (repeated every two years) for equality and diversity
        and unconscious bias.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 a) Research funding and strategies for generating research income

 Research funding and income generation strategies are directly managed through CFRC. This not
 only envelops the current priorities of its two RG’s, but purposefully divests effort to both long-term
 recurrent challenges, along with emergent themes that need specific focus. Funding strategies of
 late have focussed on: BIM/digital construction solutions, sustainable construction approaches,
 advanced off-site construction methodologies, smart cities and infrastructure development, and
 brownfield remediation and regeneration. Research income reported in REF2014 was
 approximately £562,000. However, in line with our strategy, SoABE invested additional resources
 to expand its critical mass, capacity and overall bidding capability, which resulted in a significant
 increase in research income of £2,325,621 (for this reporting period). This amount excludes some
 other income streams reported under different capital and revenue headings, some of which may
 have been omitted in the calculation of total research income. Our total revenue includes major
 funders such as UK and EU funding bodies, including ERDF, EU Horizon 2020, UKRI and BC. A
 selection of these projects can be seen as follows:

       BECCI (ERDF, 2013-2015) supports SMEs in developing innovative climate change
        solutions. In conjunction with Coventry University, BECCI was awarded £1.2m. Based to
        its success, BECCI-2 (2016-2018) and BECCI-3 (2019-2021) were awarded a further
        £2.85m in total. The main focus of the BECCI project is to decrease carbon emissions from


                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        residential and commercial buildings through innovative solutions including the adoption
        of low carbon technologies developed by local SMEs.
       OPTIMUM (EU Horizon 2020, 2015-2018) focussed on the necessary data infrastructure
        for handling huge amounts of Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) related data. Data
        infrastructure contained adapters for all necessary data sources, such as open data
        sources. These include traffic data and points of interests, real-time transportation
        information, alternative mobility options, weather and air quality information. This project
        engaged 18 academic and industrial partners from nine different EU countries, with a total
        project value of €5.9m (UoW component £362,989.92).
       BRIC (ERDF, 2017-2022) supports Black Country SMEs involved in brownfield
        remediation and redevelopment. This coordinates brownfield data and develops innovative
        remediation technologies and solutions for brownfield land in order to provide positive long-
        term impacts on urban regeneration practices, to improve policy at regional, national and
        international levels. BRIC received £3.5m for its activities and provides a platform for the
        initiation of the NBI, which received £14.9m funding from the UK Government’s Get
        Building Fund in 2020.
       SCFRIC (ERDF, 2019-2022) project provides a range of support measures, ICT solutions
        and business support to regional companies. This includes process improvement, BIM,
        strategies and platforms, innovation drivers/opportunities, all of which aim to improve
        organisational performance and capability. This project received £1,425,514.
       STELLAR (UKRI, 2020-2022) accelerates research into Modern Methods of Construction
        (MMC) using 3D ‘digital twins’, parametric modelling, simulation, logistics, and advanced
        automation/production approaches. Whilst still relatively in its infancy, this work has
        received positive attention from the MMC supply chain, housing associations and the
        House of Lords. This project received £1.95m (UoW component £243,469).

 In addition, eight KTPs (totalling £546k), predominantly in BIM and Digital Construction, have been
 secured during the reporting period.

 CFRC researchers have established strong links with government, industry, professional and
 other external bodies to not only work collaboratively, but also explore opportunities for capturing
 additional funding. For example, Georgakis’s academic links with partners across the EU [for
 example, TU Delft (Netherlands), National Technical University of Athens (Greece) and Austrian
 Institute of Technology (Austria)] and industry [for example, Intrasoft International (Luxembourg)
 and TRT Trasporti e Territorio (Italy)]; led to our engagement with several EU Projects (totaling
 £1.2m). Research discovery from these projects include Multi-source Big Data Fusion Driven
 Proactivity for Intelligent Mobility; End-to-End Approach for Mobility-as-a-Service tools; and Spatial
 and Transport Planning Tools. Findings from these projects have helped inform policy on the
 adoption of sustainable transportation systems and standards.

 CFRC proactively shares its knowledge, experience and findings to industry and broader society
 (cf. third-tier beneficiaries) to maximise discovery, dissemination and wider uptake. For example,
 Hampton and colleagues secured funding to support SMEs in developing climate change solutions
 to address construction industry CO2 emission problems. This included work on resource
 efficiency drivers and development of innovative environmental technologies, culminating in the
 design and deployment of renewable energy and sensory systems that had a positive impact on
 energy efficiency, whilst also helping to reduce carbon emissions from infrastructure and housing
 projects. Energy-cost saving of 20% (at household level) were achieved, which as a corollary, led
 to a 19% decrease in property arrears. This work also helped inform policies at national and
 international levels by reporting findings to the Ministry of Housing Communities and Local
 Government (November 2018), including advising both the Black Country LEP and European
 Structural and Investment (ESI) Funds Sub-committee. 39 LEP areas support the delivery of the
 ESI Funds programme for 2014 to 2020 in England, including the Black Country LEP. The reach
 and significance of this impact was due to the high-quality research, the strategic approach
 adopted, high levels of engagement and commitment of the team to ensure high relevancy of
 findings to technical and practical challenges.


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A further example of the success of our funding strategy includes Arif, Heesom and colleagues’
 support to SMEs in developing new methodologies and processes to deliver efficiency
 improvements in the construction, housing and infrastructure sector using MMC and offsite
 techniques. This incorporates Goulding’s and Arif’s expertise in offsite manufacturing as joint
 Coordinators of CIB’s W121 Working Commission (Offsite Construction) and earlier work in TG74
 (New Production and Business Models in Construction). The combined efforts (in conjunction with
 Heesom’s expertise in BIM) have helped secure ERDF funding to further support industry
 improvements. Work to date has helped SME’s improve their product offering and identified new
 innovative products and services. It created new opportunities for national and international
 markets through such avenues as the development of a new panelised-based extensible, high
 volume residential buildings system; creation of new process simulation techniques; and design
 of new model-driven platform strategies.

 Other examples of research funding and strategies for generating research income include the
 creation of CFRC as the primary conduit and optics for our collective research offering. CFRC is
 used to coalesce research capability with industry need, through government initiatives, industry
 grand challenges, professional bodies’ foci, and wider societal issues. This arrangement has not
 only helped CFRC maximise its research interventions (value, impact, reach, significance), but
 also helped identify new/emerging priorities and funding opportunities. In this respect, UoW is now
 considered to be at the forefront of urban regeneration research and is actively delivering the City
 of Wolverhampton’s vision. Arif, Pathirage and colleagues have worked closely with
 Wolverhampton City Council, the Black Country LEP and the West Midlands Combined Authority
 (WMCA) to secure funding from ERDF to support BRIC, and subsequently £14.9m funding from
 the UK Government for the NBI. This funding will also be used to deliver projects that create jobs
 in urban regeneration, thereby generating further investment to support economic recovery post-
 Covid-19. Given this, the NBI is expected to grow and evolve into a world class Research Institute,
 located within SoABE’s new state-of-the-art Springfield Campus. NBI will provide facilities to: (1)
 develop advanced skills, technologies and methodologies through innovation and partnership with
 the construction industry; (2) focus on practical applications of future brownfield regeneration
 through targeted research; and (3) lead policy development, research, innovation and commercial
 services in brownfield regeneration.


 b) Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact

 Infrastructure supporting research and impact of CFRC is available at School, Faculty and
 University levels. An impact officer in the RPU is assigned to CFRC and works very closely with
 our members to ensure we maximise the research impact. We are also ably supported by six
 knowledge transfer managers in optimising research impact by carefully considering and
 evaluating all pathways to impact. The Faculty’s dedicated project and bidding support manager
 provides pre-and post-award support to costing of proposals and the financial management of
 research grants and associate financial reporting.


 c) Equality and diversity

 SoABE members are a mixture of experienced and ECRs and work as teams, so that the benefit
 of experience, expertise and connections can be passed onto the next generation of researchers.
 Therefore, research bids frequently involve a balanced team in terms of experience. Several ECRs
 (Kaushik, Obi, Qasim) have been part of successful bidding teams during the reporting period. In
 particular, Qasim led the bidding teams that secured a total of £144,640 funding in 2019 from the
 BC Newton Fund Researcher Links Workshop Scheme to organise workshops in Brazil, Jordan
 and the Philippines on several themes, including environmental resilience, energy efficiency and
 climate change.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 d) Research infrastructure

 SoABE laboratories have been significantly enhanced, in terms of space and facilities, with the
 move to the new Springfield Campus. The brand-new state-of-the-art building with 7,900m2 space
 offers specialist teaching and social learning spaces, design studios, specialist laboratories, multi-
 disciplinary workshops, lecture theatres, a cafe, offices, meeting rooms, ICT rooms and a top-floor
 super studio. Both staff and students use the laboratory facilities with controlled access. Most
 materials research and geotechnical investigations are undertaken within these laboratories.
 SoABE also have a full range of geotechnical research equipment. Facilities and equipment
 include: FARO 3-D laser scanner, field XRF analyser, Ground Penetrating Radar, drones, and
 dedicated field survey equipment, all of which are supported by advanced VR and GIS facilities
 and a dedicated small team of expert technical staff.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 CFRC staff have established a number of high profile successful collaborative partnerships with
 industry, the research community, academia and wider societal beneficiaries. These long-standing
 arrangements span a range of disciples, and designed to maximise impact and further promote
 continued engagement. This approach, our differentiated positioning and use of substantiators
 have strengthened our core offering and impact.


 a) Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Developing, nurturing and enhancing partnerships are pivotal to the research activities and
 professional standing of SoABE. Given the applied nature of our research, CFRC’s raison d'être
 centres on the delivery of transparent communication and engagement platforms throughout the
 research process, from need, through to discovery, development and impact. This collaborative
 approach is vital for shared and collective ownership from the outset, and underpins effective and
 timely delivery of research targets, whilst ensuring CFRC maximises its ability to promote reflexive
 interpretation of research discoveries to both cognate and non-cognate audiences.

 CFRC’s research collaboration, networks and partnerships span micro, meso and macro
 pathways from single organisations, through to complex multi-tiered companies with global reach
 and significance. Success indicators include grant capture, journal publications, joint PhD
 supervision, conference hosting, and industrial workshop sessions. Fullen has been working
 closely with the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro (Brazil) since 2001 and this research
 collaboration has attracted funding from the Brazilian National Research Council. Similarly,
 Yunnan Agricultural University (China) has been a research partner since 1987. Indicators of
 success with this partner during the REF census period include a jointly supervised PhD project,
 one journal publication and a book chapter. The funders of this research collaboration include
 Yunnan Province Science and Technology Commission.


 b) Wider contributions to economy and society

 CFRC is actively engaged in a number of activities that directly and indirectly support socio-
 economic beneficiaries. This includes societal impact stemming from publicly-funded research; in
 particular, activities that enhance societal value through wider social, cultural, environmental and
 economic measures (for example, new jobs, services, reduced waste and pollution, increased
 mobilisation, new Government priorities), all of which form part of the Government’s Grand
 Challenges (2019). Examples include brownfield regeneration (an emerging priority area of
 CFRC), which directly contributes to urban regeneration of the Black Country that contains a
 significant amount of derelict brownfield land. The new Springfield Campus (£110m regeneration
 project), now hosts SoABE’s world-leading research centre (BRIC), which includes a dedicated

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research institute (NBI) with £14.9m funding to develop new and innovative remediation
 technologies for brownfield land. This conjoined approach not only contributes to the long-term
 strategies for urban regeneration in the West-Midlands, but also helps deliver the UK
 Government’s wider regeneration strategy. At regional level, we help authorities such as the
 WMCA and Wolverhampton City Council achieve their strategic goals. This strategy promotes,
 shares and delivers maximum impact, supporting UK economic growth, employment and
 concomitant underpinning societal infrastructure. This work is also promoted and shared through
 our partner networks to maximise reach and significance with other world-leading domain experts
 in urban regeneration and brownfield development.


 c) Indicators of wider influence

 CFRC staff are active in multiple professional roles. We provide illustrative examples to
 demonstrate the breadth and depth of the contributions staff make.

 i) Journal editorships

 Over 10 CFRC members are Journal Editors, Guest Editors for Special Issues or act as Editorial
 Team Members. For example, Goulding is an Associate Editor for the International Journal of 3D
 Information Modelling, and was the Editor of Construction Innovation (1995-2016), now Honorary
 Advisory Board member. Fullen is the Associate Editor of the Journal International Soil and Water
 Conservation Research, and Georgakis is a Topic Editor for Sustainability.

 Staff are frequently invited to be Guest Editors of special and themed journal issues, due to their
 standing in respective subject areas. For example, Arif and Goulding have acted as guest editors
 for special issues on ‘Offsite Manufacturing: Industry Transformation and Future Landscape
 Development’ for Construction Innovation in 2020 and on ‘Off-site Construction’ for Architecture
 Engineering and Design Management in 2018. Pathirage was the guest editor for the special issue
 on ‘Disaster Management and Resilience in Building Construction’ for Buildings in 2016; Sheng
 was the guest editor for a special issue on ‘Textile Composites’ for Materials in 2017. Heesom and
 Oloke are currently acting as guest editors for the Journal of Engineering, Design and Technology
 on ‘Resilience and responsiveness of the AEC Sector’.

 Our researchers also serve on over 30 Editorial Boards of leading journals. Examples include:
 Construction Innovation (Arif); International Journal of Law in the Built Environment (Ndekugri);
 Smart and Sustainable Built Environment (Goulding, Renukappa, Suresh); and Journal of
 Environmental Engineering and Landscape Management (Fullen).

 ii) Prizes

 In recognition of the high standing of their research, CFRC staff have been awarded several prizes
 and accolades. Recent examples include: 1) Emerald Literati Award (2019) for Outstanding Paper
 by Arif for ‘Critical factors for transferring and sharing tacit knowledge within lean and agile
 construction processes’, Construction Innovation; 2) Emerald Literati Award (2018) for
 Outstanding Paper by Adaku for ‘Major causes of construction time and cost overruns’, Journal of
 Engineering, Design and Technology; 3) Emerald Literati Network Awards for Excellence (2020)
 Highly Commended Paper by Goulding for ‘Investigating the cost of offsite construction housing
 in Western Australia’, International Journal of Housing Markets and Analysis 4) Fullen was the
 joint winner of the ‘Gerold Richter Award’ (2015) from the European Society for Soil Conservation.

 iii) Fellowships

 The majority of staff hold membership/fellowship of one or more professional bodies. These
 include CIOB (Arif, Chinyio, Daniel, Ndekugri, Oloke); RICS (Ndekugri, Oladinrin); CEng (Arif,
 Oloke); The Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists-CIAT (Heesom). Additional
 membership includes overseas professional institutions such as the Institute of Quantity Surveying

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in Sri Lanka (Pathirage) and the Council of Architecture in India (Kaushik). Almost all staff are
 Fellows of the HEA, including one Senior Fellow (Ndekugri).

 iv) Membership of research councils or similar national and international committees

 CFRC researchers actively contribute to professional associations and learned societies.
 Examples include CIB Co-ordinator for W102 Information and knowledge management in Building
 (Suresh), W113 Law and Dispute Resolution (Charlson) and W121 Offsite Construction (Arif and
 Goulding). Sheng is a Council Member of the International Masonry Society, and Fullen holds the
 role of Vice-President and UK Representative of the World Association of Soil and Water
 Conservation and Vice-President of the European Society for Soil Conservation.

 v) Invited keynotes and conference chair roles

 Goulding delivered a keynote speech during the Conference on Governing Mega-Projects:
 ‘Towards Public Value Management’ at the University of Central Lancashire, UK, 2014. Similarly
 Fullen delivered keynote presentations in China during the ‘International Symposium on Poverty
 Reduction and Economic Development in Western China,’ Yunnan Agricultural University, 2014
 and ‘Conference on Agricultural Ecology,’ 2015. Arif has delivered several keynote speeches,
 including the Conference on ‘Modular and Offsite Construction,’ Canada, 2016.

 Several staff members have chaired/co-chaired international conferences, including the first and
 second ICCF in 2018 and 2020 (Arif, Goulding, Heesom and Suresh) and the 13th International
 Post-Graduate Research Conference in 2017 (Pathirage). CFRC members have also chaired/co-
 chaired many national and international panel sessions, the engagement of which spans over 40
 international events over the REF reporting period.

 vi) Refereeing academic publications and research proposals

 All staff contribute to the subject as referees for many Architecture, Built Environment and
 Engineering journals. Leading journals include: Automation in Construction (Heesom); Building
 Research & Information (Goulding); International Journal of Architectural Heritage (Heesom);
 International Journal of Building Pathology and Adaptation (Adaku, Heesom); Construction
 Innovation (Arif, Daniel, Goulding, Pathirage); Construction Management and Economics (Adaku,
 Chinyio, Daniel); Engineering, Construction and Architectural Management (Adaku, Chinyio,
 Daniel, Oladinrin, Renukappa); Journal of Cleaner Production (Renukappa) and Journal of
 Management in Engineering (Daniel). Fullen has refereed 305 journal papers for 59 journals.

 Our staff have also been referees for numerous applications for research funding. These include
 the Qatar National Research Foundation (Arif); the British Council (Georgakis); National Science
 and Engineering Research Council of Canada (Heesom, Goulding); Engineering and Physical
 Sciences Research Council-EPSRC (Goulding, Heesom, Pathirage); the EU (Frameworks 5, 6, 7
 and Horizon 2020) research programmes and expert panels (Fullen, Goulding, Pathirage); the
 Biology and Biological Sciences Research Council (Fullen); and the US National Science
 Foundation (Fullen).

 The above list of activities in terms of journal editorships, memberships, keynotes, conference
 chairing and refereeing is not exhaustive but gives a flavour of the extensive work our team
 members are performing. We are committed to conducting research, which is impactful, vital, and
 sustainable.




                                                                                          Page 15
