Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Keele University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA5 Biological Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context, structure and strategic aims
 Research in Biological Sciences at Keele, led by the School of Life Sciences (SoLS), has
 undergone a period of transformational change since REF2014. Substantial University and
 external investment in infrastructure and key strategic appointments have synergised a step
 change in research performance (e.g., 96% increase in average annual income compared to
 REF2014), strengthening capacity in specialist areas such as vector-borne diseases that gives
 the grouping its unique profile. Our principal aim is to address some of the world’s major health
 and environmental challenges and to fulfil our mission to deliver the highest quality and most
 innovative research in biological sciences, while collaborating widely across disciplinary and
 geographical borders to ensure maximum long-term impact. Thus, research in UoA5 is strongly
 aligned with and forms a fundamental component of the University’s interdisciplinary Research
 Institutes for Sustainable Futures and Global Health. Through our research strategy, aligned to
 the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs), we have developed world-leading
 research in our three key research themes: Applied Entomology and Parasitology, Molecular
 and Structural Biosciences, and Neuroscience. Staff returned to UoA5 have led or contributed
 to high-impact research on infectious diseases (including malaria, viral infections and neglected
 tropical diseases), crop protection and food security, breast cancer, immune systems and
 neurology. This includes work by the multidisciplinary $96.5M Target Malaria consortium which
 aims to reduce disease transmission by the development of genetic technologies for modifying
 mosquitoes. Staff from the School are also returned in UoA3 (6 FTE), UoA12 (2 FTE) and UoA14
 (1 FTE), with an emerging strength in glycosciences which spans the research interests of the
 School.

 The rising trajectory of the unit compared with REF2014 is evidenced by the following:

    •   A 7-year research income since 2014 totalling £14,597,257, representing a 175%
        increase, an increase in average total income per year of 96% and a 26% increase in
        income per year per staff member submitted. UKRI now represents 38% of total income
        compared to 26% previously;
    •   A 64% increase in staff with significant responsibility for research being returned to
        UoA5 for REF2021 (19.4 FTE) compared to REF2014 (12.4 FTE);
    •   A 43% increase in PhD completions per year. Biological Sciences at Keele was ranked
        4th/44 for overall satisfaction in the 2019 PRES;
    •   Opening of the new Attenborough Laboratories (£11M) in 2019, together with internal
        investment of over £500K in new research equipment;
    •   Over £200K from the UKRI World Class Labs allocation to Keele University;
    •   Establishment of a new Containment Level 3 facility dedicated to arbovirus work
        (£800K), funded by a Royal Society Wolfson lab refurbishment grant and internal match-
        funding;
    •   Growth of the unit through 10 new strategic academic appointments


 Research and contribution to the discipline since REF2014
 The unit brings together staff from the Schools of Life Sciences, Chemical and Physical Sciences
 (SCPS) and Medicine in three research themes that align closely to institutional research priorities
 of sustainability and global health. SoLS has grown very substantially in size, both in research
 activity and in undergraduate teaching (total annual student intake increasing by over 100% since
 2013/14). In accordance with our strategic plan, we have invested in key staff appointments,
 building on core capacity and increasing both critical mass and diversity of UoA5 substantially.



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The strategic aims for UoA5 set out in REF2014 were to support and grow research activities,
 income and capacity in areas of strength within the unit and to develop long term impact as a
 direct result of this work. Identified areas for expansion were the biology of agriculturally important
 insects, both as vectors of disease and as beneficial insects; and the biology, transmission and
 pathogenesis of parasitic diseases (malaria, leishmaniasis and trypanosomiasis). We can
 evidence considerable progress in these areas (as described below), with strategic appointments,
 institutional investment in infrastructure and a large increase in research income. Our research
 has resulted in socio-economic, health, policy and social impacts through highly innovative
 approaches, as exemplified in our two impact case studies: 1) Sustainable pest management in
 crops: Improved traps for thrips and whiteflies (led by Kirk); and 2) Building capacity and
 infrastructure for controlling malaria transmitting mosquitoes in West Africa (led by Tripet).

 Centre for Applied Entomology and Parasitology (10.4 Cat A Staff FTE)
 Established over 25 years ago, the Centre for Applied Entomology and Parasitology (CAEP) is a
 world leading research centre for entomology and vector-borne diseases. Led by Tripet, the group
 demonstrates expertise across parasitology and virology, disease vectors and agricultural pests,
 from fundamental biology to the development of novel control strategies and new drugs. CAEP
 has an ethos of equitable local, national and international partnerships and capacity building and
 the theme strongly links to several UN SDGs (Zero Hunger, Good Health and Well-Being, and Life
 on Land). CAEP staff work with an extensive collaborative network across the UK, Africa, South
 America and Asia. Research in this theme has high translational impact, has resulted in multiple
 patents, licensing, and spinout activities (e.g., thrip traps described in Impact Case Study 1) and
 supports postdoctoral and postgraduate researchers both in Keele and globally. Strategic areas
 within CAEP can be categorised into two main areas:

     • The biology and control of agriculturally important insects
 This is discipline-leading in several aspects of crop sustainability, especially relevant to low-to-
 middle income countries (LMICs) in Africa and aligns with the Institute for Sustainable Futures
 theme Providing Food Security. With funding from UKRI, industry, and other sources (Agriculture
 and Horticulture Development Board), UoA5 staff have made significant advances on socio-
 economically important insects that are beneficial for or that threaten food-security, both as vectors
 of plant disease and crop pests. Projects include: (i) integrated pest management in strawberry
 crops; (ii) improving food safety by pesticide reduction in Kenya (SAFARI - GCRF/BBSRC) in
 partnership with the International Centre of Insect Physiology and Ecology (icipe); and (iii)
 management of thrips (Impact Case Study 1) using semiochemicals (within the Europe
 Australasian Thysanoptera Semiochemical Network). Bruce (appointed as a Professor in 2017)
 works on novel strategies for crop sustainability (BBSRC/NERC) (see Bruce et al, 2015, Sci Rep
 5, 11183) and biological control of the potentially devastating fall armyworm. Bruce is driving a
 knowledge exchange system supporting UK growers in crop protection (CROPROTECT),
 developing smart cereals for management of stemborer pests in Africa (SCPRID) and managing
 beetle pests of field beans and peas (via an Agri-Tech Catalyst - Industrial Research Award).

     • The biology, transmission and pathogenesis of disease
 Research on parasitic and viral diseases aligns closely with Keele’s Institute for Global Health and
 aims to generate knowledge and impact through the development and implementation of control
 tools for malaria, leishmaniasis, African trypanosomiasis and mosquito-borne arboviruses
 including dengue and chikungunya. As lead of the malaria group, Tripet is field entomology
 technical coordinator on the Target Malaria consortium, a non-profit organisation sponsored by
 the NIH and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, of which Galizi is also a member. Tripet’s
 engagement with key stakeholders, including the UN, has resulted in policy changes on gene-
 drive technologies across Africa (Impact Case Study 2). His work has been instrumental in
 development of infrastructure and strengthening capacity for integrated vector management in
 Mali, Burkina Faso, Ghana and Uganda. Underpinning research projects have included functional
 speciation genomics of Anopheles gambiae, (supported by NERC, MRC and DFID) and the
 ecology and genetics of mosquito release, funded originally by a Wellcome Trust Programme
 grant in collaboration with the Malaria Research Training Center in Bamako, Mali. The latter
 includes application and uptake of gene-drive technologies to reduce vector fitness in malaria.

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Horrocks and Russo study the human malarial parasite Plasmodium falciparum with a focus on
 the development of vitro approaches to support early pre-clinical drug discovery (e.g., Ullah et al
 2019, J. Antimicrob Chemother 75, 362.

 Price investigates fundamental biology and novel treatments for protozoan parasites Leishmania
 spp. and Trypanosoma evansi (a major pathogen of camels). Funded by the Wellcome Trust,
 MRC and Newton Fund, her work has included application of magnetic hyperthermia as a novel
 treatment for cutaneous leishmaniasis. Price is also co-lead with Keele anthropologist Dikomitis
 on a NIHR funded interdisciplinary programme (ECLIPSE) which aims to reduce stigma and
 improve the patient journey for cutaneous leishmaniasis, working with teams in Brazil, Ethiopia
 and Sri Lanka. Wastling, funded by BBSRC, researches protozoan and helminth parasites and
 focuses on host-pathogen interactions, vaccines and drug development. He has played a leading
 role in developing proteomic research in the field of parasitology, resulting in pioneering
 discoveries of novel invasion-related molecules of apicomplexan parasites and in developing
 systems biology approaches for understanding host-pathogen interactions.

 Other recent strategic appointments have also expanded CAEP further. Forrester-Soto explores
 arboviruses of medical and veterinary importance, such as chikungunya, Dengue and Venezuelan
 equine encephalitis virus, aiming to develop new antivirals. Galizi applies advanced genetic
 research to generate novel molecular tools for the genetic control of disease transmission (e.g.,
 Hammond et al., 2016, Nat Biotechnol 34, 78) using molecular and synthetic biology, functional
 genetics and genetic engineering such as CRISPR-Cas9.

 Molecular and Structural Biosciences (MSB) (6 Cat A Staff FTE)
 Launched in June 2019, MSB created a critical mass of complementary research interests via
 strategically appointed and existing staff. The theme incorporates expertise in protein structure,
 glycoscience (with UoA3 members), immunology, and cancer, and has collaborative links with
 world-leading institutions such as the Institut Laue-Langevin (ILL) in Grenoble, Public Health
 England, and the National Institute of Biological Standards and Control. The group have worked
 closely with members of CAEP on host-pathogen-vector interactions and the development of
 carbohydrate-based therapeutics, including drug repurposing for malaria and most recently for
 COVID-19.

 Shrive focuses on the functions and interactions of key molecules of the innate immune system
 including pentraxins (C-reactive protein) and active fragments of collectins. The group has
 attracted substantial beam-time funding (£580K) for use of the Diamond Light Source facility in
 Oxfordshire. Forsyth’s group is at the forefront of studies of macromolecular systems using novel
 physical techniques such as neutron and X-ray scattering methodology at ILL and the European
 Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF). Current projects with substantial funding (e.g., ILL award
 of £471,095 in 2019) include structural studies of DNA, DNA-drug interactions and DNA-protein
 complexes, and self-assembling systems of synthetic and biological origin (see e.g., Berger et al.,
 2015, Nature Biotechnol 10, 353). Winter, strategically supported by two internally funded PhD
 studentships, investigates collectins, linking to Shrive, and a Leishmania-specific galactokinase
 linking to Price in CAEP. She is developing collaborative projects with Forrester-Soto to work on
 arbovirus-host cell interactions. Traore, an expert cryo-electron microscopist works between
 Keele and ILL. His studies include solving the structures of molecules involved in the immune
 response and the genetics of pathogenic organisms, including development of antibiotic
 resistance. Torode, another recent appointment, has added strength in plant biochemistry and
 links to a wider cluster within SoLS on glycosciences. Maarabouni, funded by the Royal Society
 and international studentships, researches cell fate, cancer and cancer therapies. She has
 identified seven novel genes that regulate cell death, including GAS5, a major regulator of cell
 fate. Projects also include the role and identification of long non-coding RNAs implicated in human
 cancer (see Hudson et al., 2014, Nature Commun 5, 5395) and specific cellular and molecular
 mechanisms underpinning cell migration, invasion, and metastasis in triple-negative breast cancer
 lines.



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Neuroscience (3 Cat A Staff FTE)
 The neuroscience group have close links with colleagues in the neural tissue engineering group
 (UoA12). With internationally recognised expertise in electron microscopy, Furness studies
 functional aspects of hearing and age-related hearing loss. Funded by the BBRSC, his group
 provided definitive evidence for the localisation of the transducer channel and its accessory
 proteins in sensory hair cells, and collaborative studies of mutations in the channel (Beurg et al.,
 2019, PNAS 116, 20743), with potential impacts in global health and the over 300 million people
 who suffer from hearing loss. Neuroscience at Keele has been enhanced with new appointments
 of Trent and Kishkinev. Trent collaborates with Cardiff University on genomic studies in
 psychiatric populations, identifying synaptic ‘risk genes’ and the pathways and behavioural
 consequences of disease-relevant proteins. He discovered that Arc protein is a vital mediator of
 hippocampal-based fear memory and he uses a preclinical model of reduced Cyfip1 gene
 expression, mirroring psychiatric-relevant genetic deletions. Kishkinev broadens the
 neuroscience research base by focusing on animal migration and navigation and the role of
 different sensory systems required for the latter.

 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact
 The vision for Biological Sciences at Keele University is to develop world leading research which
 addresses global challenges in areas of health and sustainability while producing quality outputs,
 delivering sustainable impact and building capacity across a range of sectors. Looking forward,
 our strategic aims include the following:

     • New strategic partnerships and collaborative projects
 The Harper-Keele Veterinary School has recently been established, with the first intake of
 undergraduates in 2020-21. There is a huge opportunity for growth and collaboration with the
 School of Life Sciences and their international partners, both in areas of existing strength (e.g.,
 veterinary pathogens and therapeutics) and moving into new areas such as animal neuroscience
 and sustainable livestock management which will complement work across the three UoA5
 themes. Collaboration across the two Schools and with the School of Medicine gives opportunities
 in developing innovative One Health approaches for controlling zoonotic infections and addressing
 major issues such as antimicrobial resistance. A new research cluster in animal behaviour,
 ecology and conservation will also link Life Sciences, Veterinary Medicine and the School of
 Geography, Geology and the Environment. The Head of Harper-Keele Veterinary School sits on
 the SoLS Research Committee, facilitating interactions between the two Schools while the
 veterinary research base becomes established. Strategic appointments in combination with
 focused networking and internal schemes for pump-priming joint projects will enable us to
 complement and strengthen key research themes that align to the priorities of the Institute for
 Sustainable Futures.

      • Building on areas of strength that give the unit a unique profile
 The solid foundation built from increased investment and new appointments will allow us to take
 forward a new phase of expansion in key areas within the unit. Mentoring and support of our new
 early career researchers by staff with a strong track record in research funding and project delivery
 will be key to further extend the trajectory evidenced since REF2014. The COVID-19 pandemic
 has demonstrated the critical importance of researching emerging viral infections. Key
 appointments (Forrester-Soto, Galizi) and the new Containment Level 3 virology facility at Keele
 gives the unit new opportunities to investigate mosquito interactions and genetics of arboviruses
 such as Dengue, the incidence of which has risen dramatically across Asia and Latin America
 over the last decade. Recently appointed staff in structural biology (Traore, Winter) with joint
 appointments between Keele and Institut Laue-Langevin have access to world leading
 infrastructure at Grenoble including cryo-electron microscopy, neutron instruments and the
 European Synchrotron Radiation Facility. There is also an emerging critical mass of research
 groups across the Schools of Life Sciences, Chemical and Physical Sciences and Medicine who
 work on glycosciences and carbohydrate-based therapeutics (e.g., Hyatt et al 2020, Pathogen
 9, 935, with Winter on Dengue virus interactions with host glycosaminoglycans). These groups
 have the potential to lead innovation and translational research and to deliver high quality high
 impact research across all three UoA5 research themes. The Neuroscience theme is undergoing

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a transition period following senior staff retirements. There are growing links between
 Neuroscience and the new Veterinary School and Schools of Psychology and Medicine and a new
 strategic position at Chair level is currently being recruited to lead expansion of this area of
 research.

     • Building impact through interdisciplinarity and stakeholder engagement
 Long-term sustainable impact will be maximised through robust interdisciplinary research and
 equitable stakeholder engagement, expanding on the existing Impact Case Studies (led by Kirk
 and Tripet) and developing emerging leads towards delivery of real-world change. The newly
 established Keele Centre for Food Security (co-led by Bruce) aims to work towards ensuring that
 everyone has access to the healthy nutritious food they need, using sustainable sources and
 methods (UN SDG2, Zero Hunger) in close alignment with the Institute for Sustainable Futures.
 The Centre links with CAEP interests in crop protection and will facilitate interdisciplinary
 partnerships between academics and key stakeholders at regional, national and international
 levels. Invasive pest species such as fall armyworm (a focus of Bruce’s BBSRC-funded work)
 cost US$1.4 trillion p.a. according to the UN food and agricultural organisation and control
 strategies must be co-developed across multiple disciplines and sectors to be effective. Price co-
 leads the £4.6M NIHR-funded ECLIPSE project on cutaneous leishmaniasis with Dikomitis, a
 leading medical anthropologist at Keele and partners in Brazil, Ethiopia and Sri Lanka. Both
 ECLIPSE and work by Tripet in the Target Malaria Consortium address UN SDG3 (Good Health
 and Well-being), strongly align with the priorities of Keele’s Institute for Global Health and aim to
 deliver health, economic, policy and social impact in addition to generating new knowledge on
 human diseases. Expertise in public engagement and influencing policy within these teams will
 also be utilised broadly at School level to ensure that delivering and evidencing impact is built into
 new research proposals at the earliest stages.

 Open research and research integrity
 UoA5 is at the forefront of developing an open research environment. 100% of our research
 outputs are open access compliant for REF 2021, a process which began in advance of the current
 REF policy. The Unit works with partners to seek external funding for open research, and where
 this has not been possible, utilises Keele's research repository. Staff in UoA5 have been involved
 in developing and implementing the University’s research data policy and were early adopters of
 the data repository (e.g. https://researchdata.keele.ac.uk/28/).

 Staff have embraced the concept of pre-publishing with use of online resources, for example
 BioRxiv, to make data accessible prior to and after publication. This evidences a growing
 awareness of the importance of open research to the academic and wider community. Staff work
 with the central Project Assurance Research Integrity team to maintain policies and processes in
 relation to ensuring legislative compliance and adherence to professional standards.

 Research integrity is a major element of UoA5’s strategy and activity. UoA5 fully complies with all
 aspects of the Concordat for Research Integrity and with relevant University, national and
 international governance requirements and ethical oversight processes, in partnership with the
 Directorate of Research Innovation and Engagement (RIE). Major roles of UoA5 staff in this regard
 have been in the governance of animal research. For this REF period, the academic lead of the
 University’s central animal facility (now the Biomedical Services Unit (BSU)), which supplies
 animals for research at Keele is submitted in UoA5. The role of the lead has been to ensure proper
 governance and due diligence in application of the Animals (Scientific Procedures) act of 1986,
 with subsequent amendments, and compliance with Home Office regulatory bodies. The Lead has
 also been the Named Training and Competency Officer for the unit, a member of the Animal
 Welfare Ethical Review Body, and with the Faculty Technical Manager, has been involved in line
 management of BSU staff. Other members of UoA5 have played key roles in University
 governance processes relating to genetically modified organisms, in radiation safety activities and
 the human tissue authority. UoA5 academics have served on University ethics committees.
 Beyond the university, UoA5 staff in Target Malaria consortium have worked with key stakeholders
 in leading the development of international regulatory structures and processes for the use of
 gene-drive mosquitoes, as evidenced in Impact Case Study 2.

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 The current submission for UoA5 comprises 14 males and 6 females, 19.4 FTE compared to 12.4
 FTE in REF2014, a 64% increase in staff FTE returned. Of the returned staff, 42% are early
 career researchers (ECR’s). Since 2014, there have been 10 new academic appointments,
 representing more than 50% of UoA5, including staff from both the Faculty of Natural Sciences
 and the Faculty of Medicine and Health, each with the potential to contribute to one of the themes
 directly and to expand the overall scope.

 Research in SoLS is strategically led by the School Director of Research (Price), who reports to
 the Head of School and the Faculty of Natural Sciences Associate Dean for Research through the
 School and Faculty Research Committees. The Director of Research is supported by the three
 research theme leads. In partnership with Advance HE, senior UoA5 staff have been trained in
 leadership based on the importance of their roles to the Faculty of Natural Sciences research
 mission. Price and Bruce are also members of the Keele Research Leaders Network, chaired by
 the Pro Vice-Chancellor (Research and Enterprise).

 A focus on infectious diseases and crop protection has informed new strategic academic
 appointments in CAEP including two Chairs (Bruce, chemical ecology of insects; Wastling,
 protozoan and helminth parasites), one Readership (Forrester-Soto, arboviruses) and two
 Lectureships (Galizi, mosquitoes; Russo, malaria). The appointment of Bruce broadens the
 scope of CAEP to include new insect pests including the fall armyworm. Infectious diseases impact
 has been strengthened beyond malaria by Forrester-Soto into arboviruses and by Wastling into
 protozoan and helminth proteomics. We have expanded our remit in neuroscience through the
 appointment of two new ECRs (as Lecturers) with a focus on behavioural neuroscience. They will
 investigate models of schizophrenia and other neurological disorders (Kishkinev), and animal
 migration and navigation (Trent). Two further new Lecturers are joint appointments with ILL at
 Grenoble (Traore, cryo-electron microscopy; Winter, protein biochemistry) to expand our
 expertise in structural biology, strengthen links with Grenoble, and provide new pathways for staff
 to develop strong new research projects and postgraduate opportunities. The emerging research
 cluster in glycosciences is supported by appointment of one Lecturer to the MSB theme (Torode,
 plant biochemistry and glycosciences). The new positions also synergise with additional key
 appointments in SoLS in the areas of glycosciences and genomics (UoA3). Three of the new
 appointments in UoA5 are female, one appointed at Reader level. The newly appointed
 professorial Head of School of Life Sciences (Scott, UoA14) and School Director of Research
 (Price) are also both female.

 The unit is committed to the principles enshrined in Keele’s People Strategy. This strategy commits
 the university to principles of equality, diversity and transparency. To enhance diversity, we
 strongly welcome under-represented groups within recruitment of all academic and research staff.
 All staff are supported towards academic promotion through annual appraisals, research plans
 and promotion workshops. Promotions and appointments based on ‘Research and Enterprise’
 depend on nationally and internationally leading excellence in research. Successful academic
 promotions in UoA5 since 2014 include the following: Professor (Furness, Kirk, Tripet), Reader
 (Price) and Senior Lecturer (Maarabouni, Shrive). In total, three female and three male academic
 staff have been promoted since 2014. Existing staff are encouraged to strategically develop their
 research careers through involvement in Keele’s staff development programme.

 Through the School-based Workload Allocation Model, research time is allocated to all staff who
 are defined as having Significant Responsibility for Research, according to the University’s Code
 of Practice. Additional research time is allocated to staff with ongoing grants for research. Flexible
 and remote working, for example to support periods of grant writing, are integral to all staff activity
 and enable them to maintain a good work-life balance. The Unit is highly cohesive and supportive
 of each other, working together to make opportunities for individual teaching relief for short periods
 of leave (e.g., for conference attendance or external research visits).


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 Keele is committed to EDI and holds an Athena Swan Bronze Institutional Award and a Bronze
 Race Equality Charter Award. The School of Life Sciences also holds a Bronze Athena Swan
 Award. The EDI Committee has representation from all categories of staff and PGR students and
 is balanced in membership in line with Athena Swan and Race Equality Charter principles. The
 committee’s role is to ensure equal opportunities for members of SoLS, suggest improvements to
 school policies and act as a point of contact for anyone with concerns about LGBTQ+, gender,
 disability or racial inequalities. Staff complete a range of training activities, for example in
 awareness of protected characteristics, disability and unconscious bias. Regular training is
 mandatory for all staff involved in recruitment training, the Disability Confident Scheme is applied,
 and there is usually an observer present in interviews to check for unconscious bias. Future
 strategy is to promote continuing equality through actions such as targeted mentoring of staff from
 underrepresented groups, ensuring early career staff have strong support to meet career
 aspirations, through mentoring, supported research planning, training and funding opportunities.
 To have fair representation and develop inclusive strategies, the SoLS has EDI representatives
 and considers issues affecting all individuals on all committees that oversee issues relating to
 research activity. For example, the Health, Safety and Welfare committee oversees all aspects of
 safety in SoLS but also considers disability adjustments, mental health and wellbeing of staff. This
 committee includes a Mental Health officer who provides guidance and support directly to
 members of the school.

 The REF2021 submission is highly inclusive and contains staff from diverse backgrounds. Their
 groups include PDRAs and PGRs from numerous countries that have contributed to research in
 the Unit, as evidenced in the outputs selected for submission which have multinational authorship
 (e.g., Epopa et al. 2017, Parasit Vectors 10, 376, based on work in Burkina Faso).

 Support for ECR staff
 UoA5 adheres to the principles of the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers. This includes providing specific support for ECRs and postdoctoral research
 assistants (PDRA) and inclusion of early career staff on SoLS committees. Early and middle career
 research staff (PT and FT) are allocated a senior research mentor and develop an individual
 research plan (including research activities, outputs and grant applications) over both a 1-year
 period and the longer term (5 years). In line with the University’s Academic Role Expectations,
 these plans are reviewed by the Head of School and Director of Research, and discussed in the
 annual performance review. The plans inform allocation of research time, research support and
 mentoring. These are also used to establish career goals, pathways to promotion and attainment,
 with appropriate advice given to staff at each level of their careers. New ECRs receive a £10,000
 start-up fund and an increased fraction of their time for research compared with existing staff,
 reducing over a 3-year period (from 0.7FTE to 0.3FTE). This gives them dedicated time to
 establish research and springboard their research career.

 ECRs have a School forum and a representative of the group sits on the SoLS Research
 Committee. PDRAs also have a forum and are represented in several committees. Staff are
 encouraged to engage with the Research Vitae via review meetings where their development
 needs are identified including opportunities for training and experience in line with career goals.
 This includes university wide research training and specific school training opportunities. Training
 in grant writing, management and leadership is provided by Keele’s Academic Development
 Team. These programmes have contributed to the University’s HR Excellence in Research award
 (renewed in 2020) and accord with the European Charter for Researchers and Code of Conduct
 for the Recruitment of Researchers. This sets out principles for good working conditions for
 researchers. In addition, GDPR training is mandatory for all staff.

 This strategic support has led to some significant successes amongst ECRs. Merrick was
 appointed at Keele as a Lecturer and was awarded £1.7M European Research Council funding
 that enabled her to obtain a prestigious research position at the University of Cambridge. Price
 (appointed in 2013 as Lecturer and promoted to Reader in 2020) successfully obtained funding


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for three major grants worth over £5M from the MRC, Newton Fund and NIHR and is now the
 Director for Research in SoLS.

 PGR support, training and supervision
 Keele provides a high quality and effective postgraduate research training environment. UoA5 has
 a thriving community of PGR students, with numbers steadily increasing since 2014. During the
 period from 2014 to 2020, the total number of active PGRs in SoLS was approximately 95 (some
 registered before and some during the period). PGR awards (48 in total) have doubled
 compared to REF2014 (24), with the average number of awards per year increasing from 4.8 to
 6.9, an increase of 43%. The increase in total awards reflects not only the expansion and addition
 of research groups within UoA5 but also continued success in recruitment and completion. Faculty
 of Natural Sciences scholarships are available on a competitive basis and UoA5 has attracted the
 highest proportion of these in the faculty. External funders for PGR scholarships have included
 the following: Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Government of India, Petroleum
 Technology Development Fund, Iraqi Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
 (MOHESR), Higher Committee for Education Development in Iraq, Target Malaria, Action on
 Hearing Loss, Nigerian Tertiary Education Trust (TET) Fund and Institut Laue Langevin (ILL).

 We had an excellent response in the national Postgraduate Research Experience Survey 2019,
 in which Biological Sciences at Keele was ranked fourth (out of 44) for overall satisfaction, second
 place for professional development, third for research skills and fourth for supervision.

 All PGR students are members of the Keele Doctoral Academy (KDA), launched in April 2020,
 which provides a unified platform for PGR support, including implementation of the Postgraduate
 Code of Practice. As well as the KDA, PGR support for UoA5 is provided at faculty level by the
 PGR Director, and at School level by the PGR academic coordinator who reports to the Faculty
 PGR Committee and the School Research Committee. Student progress is monitored at regular
 milestones throughout their studies by a robust and transparent process as documented in the
 University’s PGR Code of Practice and the Faculty PGR handbook. All PGR students develop a
 training plan as part of their Personal Development and Learning Plan. A dedicated
 consumables budget is provided by SoLS for all PGR students, including those who are self-
 funded. The Faculty of Natural Sciences has a dedicated training fund for PGRs for internal
 events (e.g., workshops in R and scientific writing) and attendance of external training courses.
 PGRs representatives are members of committees across SoLS, including the Research
 Committee, to aid communication and give a voice to the PGR community at the decision-making
 level.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income
 UoA5 has had considerable success in growing its research income, as a result of focused
 investments and recruitment and development of a cohesive, supportive and collaborative
 research culture. Research income has shown significant growth: 175% increase to £14.6M since
 REF2014 (on average, 96% higher each year than REF2014). This reflects a strong portfolio of
 UKRI grants (BBSRC, MRC, GCRF, EPSRC) which now represent 38% of total income (compared
 to 26% in REF2014). Additional funding sources include the Wellcome Trust, Royal Society, EU
 and government funding through the British Council (Newton Fund) and NIHR, amongst others.
 Research income in kind totalled £2,320,396.

 The unit has been particularly successful in attracting funding in the areas of applied entomology
 and food security (aligning with Keele’s Institute for Sustainable Futures) and infectious diseases
 (aligning with the Institute for Global Health). Tripet has attracted substantial third sector funding
 from the Gates Foundation and Open Philanthropy Project Fund of the Silicon Valley Community
 Foundation, which provide core funding for Target Malaria ($96.5M in total for this consortium,
 with $4.1M for Keele, plus additional PhD studentships worth £231K). Aligning with global health
 and social inclusion themes, Price has, for the first time in UoA5, obtained NIHR funding (total
 £4.6M) to support the interdisciplinary ECLIPSE project on cutaneous leishmaniasis, which is co-

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 led by anthropologist Professor Lisa Dikomitis from Keele’s School of Medicine and now employs
 over 60 people across four continents. Kirk has obtained funds from BBSRC, Nigerian
 Government, industry (Russell IPM Ltd), Innovate UK, and Defra, totalling £588K. The
 appointment of Bruce in 2017 led to income in excess of £1M primarily from the BBSRC. Horrocks
 has obtained funding from a range of sources (including PhD studentships from the Governments
 of Nigeria and Iraq) totalling over £200K. The Government of Iraq has awarded several PGR
 studentships to Maarabouni and Shrive totalling approximately £350K over the period. New ECRs
 in UoA5 have recently secured funding from the Halley Stewart Trust, Ocean Conservation Trust,
 Rail Safety and Standards Board (RSSB) (Torode) and the Leverhulme Trust (Kishkinev).

 Major grant successes include:

    •   Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation: Target Malaria (Tripet, $1.7M, total award $79M)
    •   Silicon Valley Community Foundation: Target Malaria (Tripet, $2.4M, total award $17.5M)
    •   BBSRC: Development and Bioactivity Testing of Novel Nanotech Formulations of Plant
        Secondary Metabolites: A contribution to biorational control of crop pests (Bruce,
        £244,536)
    •   BBSRC: Hijacking plant immunity: winners and losers in dual pest and pathogen attacks
        on a shared host (Bruce, 280,082)
    •   BBSRC: Enhancing crop diversity and ecosystem services to promote biological control of
        fall armyworm in smallholder cropping systems (Bruce, £328,418, total award £1,104,433)
    •   BBSRC: Improving food safety by reducing pesticide residues: developing a pheromone
        alternative to insecticides for control of thrips on legumes in Kenya (Kirk, £455,334)
    •   BBSRC: Localisation of the mechanotransducer channel and its accessory proteins during
        development of cochlear hair cells (Furness, £370,194)
    •   MRC: BBSome trafficking: investigating a novel pathway associated with virulence in
        Leishmania (Price, £445,635)
    •   EU Horizon 2020: DNA dynamics in the unusual cell cycle of the malaria parasite
        Plasmodium falciparum (PlasmoCycle) (Merrick, £174,844, total £1,262,300) – now at
        University of Cambridge
    •   NIHR: Empowering people with cutaneous leishmaniasis: intervention programme to
        improve patient journey and reduce stigma via community education (ECLIPSE) (Price
        and Dikomitis, £1,662,035, total award £4,576,819)
    •   Knowledge Transfer Partnership between Keele University and Russell IPM Limited -
        Government Contribution (Kirk, £161,177)
    •   Ifakara Health Institute: Population biology and genomics studies on Anopheles funestus
        in Tanzania (Tripet, £163,932)
    •   Royal Society: State-of-the-art Containment-Level-3 Facility for Arboviruses and Parasites
        functional studies (Tripet, £249,500)
    •   British Council (Newton Fund): Investigating drug resistance and new treatments for
        Trypanosoma evansi infection in Egyptian camels (Price, £156,896)
    •   Wellcome Trust: Nanoparticle-induced Hyperthermia as a Novel Therapy for Cutaneous
        Leishmaniasis (Price, £92,606)
    •   Institut Laue Langevin: The development of neutron diffraction at the ILL for the study of
        biological and industrial polymers (Forsyth, £471,095)

 Internal funding schemes
 The unit’s three research themes perform a strategic role in setting the future direction of research
 activity and research income generation, aligned to the wider institutional research priorities. SoLS
 has a strong collaborative ethos, both within the School and with the wider academic community
 and strategic internal funding is offered at multiple levels at Keele to build networks, pump-prime
 research, enhance outputs and accelerate impact.

 SoLS has a range of internal funding schemes, including a competitive pump-priming fund to
 support the generation of preliminary data for grant applications; an output enhancement fund for
 existing projects; and funding for conference attendance and networking. The research re-

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engagement fund supports staff returning to work from a period of extended leave (e.g., parental
 leave) and links to the School’s equality, diversity and inclusivity (EDI) strategy. A total of £40,000
 p.a. has been set aside for these streams. Internal school funding is open to all research staff and
 typically prioritises ECRs. For example, the school’s PhD funding scheme prioritises ECR’s linked
 with established supervisors for training in supervision. At the Faculty level, funding is offered via
 small internal awards and PhD studentships to enable development of new projects. These
 prioritise development of industrial and third sector links (e.g., Target Malaria). As a result of the
 pandemic, funding has been made available for research recovery and resilience, which has been
 used to support extensions of UKRI-funded work in CAEP. At the institutional level, Keele has
 provided Impact Acceleration funding that has been important for the development of UoA5’s
 Impact Case Study 1 (Sustainable pest management in crops: Improved traps for thrips and
 whiteflies, led by Kirk) by funding industrial networking activities that promote socio-economic
 impact. Keele also supports interactions with local business in Staffordshire through Keele
 Research and Innovation Support Programme (KRISP), under which SoLS has two projects, and
 acceleration of local socio-economic developments via the Keele Deals programme. The
 University has a pump-priming scheme for new collaborations with partners in LMICs through QR
 GCRF funds; recent awards have strengthened UoS5’s interdisciplinary links in Brazil, Tanzania
 and South Africa.

 Infrastructure supporting research and impact
 UoA5 received significant financial investment from Keele University during this REF period for a
 new build, the Attenborough Laboratories (£11M) which was opened in 2019. An initial £3.75M
 investment from the HEFCE STEM Initiative was boosted by a £6.75M investment from Keele
 University for the build plus £500K for equipment, greatly increasing both research and teaching
 capacity. Additional strategic investment by the University in SoLS has focused on supporting key
 areas in crop protection and infectious diseases in CAEP (requiring specialist containment
 facilities) and increasing capacity to expand activities on glycosciences and neuroscience.

 UoA5 staff have access to a dedicated insectary facility for work on agricultural pests and insect
 vectors of disease. The suite includes licenced facilities for fall armyworm, behavioural chambers,
 Y-tube olfactometers for chemical communication studies, GC-MS and LC-MS platforms.
 Derogated Containment Level 3 facilities are available for the culture and genetic manipulation
 of human and animal infective protozoan parasites (Plasmodium, Leishmania and
 Trypanosoma spp.). We have recently opened a new secure Containment Level 3 facility for
 work on arboviruses, with HSE approval to perform virus cultivation, genetic manipulation and
 infection of mosquitoes. This suite was funded by a Royal Society Wolfson grant (£250K) led by
 Tripet together with substantial match funding from Keele (£550K). This has allowed us to
 establish a new strand of work on mosquito-virus interactions and has also enabled work on
 COVID-19 in response to the pandemic. The new facilities make Keele one of a handful of UK
 institutions with the capacity to undertake research on major emerging viral diseases such as
 Dengue fever and chikungunya.

 The School’s proteomics suite includes fully equipped biochemistry labs, in-house x-ray
 crystallographic data collection facilities and mass spectrometry facilities including MALDI-
 ToF/ToF and ESI-MS/MS. Researchers are able to access synchrotron beam time via the
 structural biology PIs at both Diamond Light and Grenoble ESRF/ILL. Research capacity has
 recently been strengthened by allocation of UKRI World Class Labs funding (£145K) to purchase
 a Circular Dichoism spectrophotometer and a surface plasmon resonance system for
 glycosciences. The acquisition of this equipment will make the facility internationally leading in
 terms of carbohydrate-protein interaction studies, with broad potential application across the three
 themes of the unit.

 Essential infrastructure for in vivo models is provided by the animal facility (BSU), where primarily
 rodents (including GM mice) are bred and maintained. This facility has exceptional standing with
 the Home Office for the quality of animal welfare, supported by an active and well-trained staff of
 four. A recent allocation of UKRI World Class Labs funding (£69K) has enabled essential upgrades
 to the infrastructure of the facility and the purchase of new surgical, cognition and motor

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 function equipment. The neuroscience theme also benefited from substantial investment in
 specialist electrophysiology equipment as part of the School expansion in 2019.

 UoA5 runs an electron microscope (EM) Unit housing two-photon/confocal imaging, two
 transmission electron microscopes and a high-resolution field emission scanning electron
 microscope. Staff across both Faculties of Natural Sciences and Medicine and Health use these
 facilities. The EM Unit implements a cost-recovery strategy that includes internal research rates
 and higher external and commercial rates. The external income supports UoA5 staff by offsetting
 the cost of internal equipment use and improving the infrastructure in the facility.

 The facilities available to staff in the School were enhanced by the signing (in 2017) of a MoU with
 the Liverpool Technology Directorate that provides access to state-of-the art facilities in
 imaging, protein production, proteomics and bioinformatics support. In addition, Keele is a member
 of the Midlands Innovation (MI) group of 8 research intensive Universities across the Midlands
 region of England and staff are eligible to apply to the technician-led MI Equipment Sharing
 Fund for access to specialist facilities across the partner institutions.

 Organisational support for research and impact
 Research is managed at the School level by the Director of Research, with oversight on strategic
 development by the Head of School and SoLS School Research Committee. Integrated support
 is provided by the central Research and Innovation Support Enhancement (RaISE) team, which
 was established in 2017 to bring together professional services staff with expertise in research
 development, governance, integrity, ethics, contracts, public engagement, commercialisation and
 impact. The team provides support for the development and management of research and
 innovation projects involving Keele University and its external partners. Establishment of the
 RaISE team has enabled a joined-up approach to research and innovation support, helping us to
 improve the quality and effectiveness of our research proposals, implementation and impact, and
 to work effectively across Faculties.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 National and international collaborations, networks and partnerships
 Staff in UoA5 have a strong network of multidisciplinary partners at national and international
 levels, operating within academic and commercial sectors. Keele’s Directorate of Research,
 Innovation and Engagement (RIE) provides expertise in partnership development, proper
 governance, contractual arrangements and protection of IP. For collaborations with LMICs, each
 Faculty at Keele has a GCRF Lead (currently Bruce for Faculty of Natural Sciences) who advises
 colleagues on equitable partnerships, ODA compliance and due diligence.

 In UoA5, industrial partnerships have developed, and commercialised basic science activities
 as exemplified in UoA5’s Impact Case Study 1 (Sustainable pest management in crops: Improved
 traps for thrips and whiteflies, led by Kirk). This involved a collaboration with Russell IPM (who
 recently received the Queens Medal for Industry) to develop novel methods for pest management,
 funded by a Knowledge Transfer Partnership grant from Innovate UK. Kirk’s commercial links with
 Syngenta and Russell IPM has led to patents and products sold across the world for the control
 of crop pests (e.g., Patent WO/2003/055309).

 Our staff collaborate widely with institutions across the UK and Shrive is a lead on the
 Midlands BAG consortium for the use of Molecular Biology facilities at Diamond. We have strong
 connections within Europe, particularly with the Institut Laue-Langevin (ILL) in France, the
 world’s leading facility in neutron science and technology, which attracts significant EU funding.
 Three staff in UoA5 (Forsyth, Winter and Traore) have joint appointments with ILL and we have
 joint PhD studentships between the two institutions. We have also developed strong links with
 partners in USA and in the Global South, including regions where malaria and leishmaniasis
 are endemic. We have MoAs with São Paulo State University (UNESP) in Brazil and University of
 Ghana to facilitate partnerships.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In CAEP, Tripet is the entomology lead for the Target Malaria Consortium and has major
 international links through networking and capacity building projects with partners including the
 University of Sao Paulo, Institut de Recherche en Sciences de la Santé, Burkina Faso; Ifakara
 Health institute, Tanzania; Center for Disease Control, USA; Manatee County Mosquito Control
 District; Bonds Consulting Group, USA; and Sumitomo Chemicals Ltd, Japan. Galizi is also a
 member of the Target Malaria Consortium and has international collaborations with Harvard
 Medical School, Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research and Massachusetts General Cancer
 Center. Kirk and Bruce lead projects with colleagues from icipe (Kenya) and UNESP (Brazil),
 addressing the global challenge of sustainable crop protection. Price has links with Alexandria
 University in Egypt via a Newton Fund/Mosharafa Institutional Links grant to study Trypanosoma
 evansi parasite in camels. This enabled establishment of the first parasite culture facility in the
 Faculty of Veterinary Medicine in Alexandria and allowed six researchers to receive training at
 Keele. Price also has collaborations with India (EPSRC/GCRF, led by Durham) for a study on the
 acceptability of drug formulations for treating visceral leishmaniasis. Her NIHR-funded
 interdisciplinary ECLIPSE project involves collaborators and multiple stakeholders in Brazil,
 Ethiopia and Sri Lanka. Horrocks collaborates with partners at Charnwood Molecular Ltd, and at
 the Universities of Massachusetts at Lowell and California at Riverside.

 In Molecular and Structural Biosciences, Maarabouni has collaborations on long non-coding
 RNAs/RNA-protein interactions with Emory University and University of Texas. In Neuroscience,
 Furness collaborates with colleagues in Portland (OR), Wisconsin-Madison (WI) and Case
 Western (IL) (USA) on auditory function and recovery following hearing loss. This work includes
 novel gene therapy approaches that could have a future impact on reducing hearing loss globally.

 Our strong national and international collaborations, networks and partnerships have been crucial
 for maintaining high-quality, high-impact publications. This is evidenced by publications in
 prestigious journals, including Nature Climate Change (Bruce), Nature Communications
 (Forrester-Soto, Galizi), Nature Nanotechnology (Forsyth), Nature Communications (Galizi,
 Maarabouni, Traore), Nature Genetics (Wastling), Science (Russo), PLoS Pathogens
 (Horrocks) and PNAS (Russo, Wastling).

 We have contributed to the research base of Biological Sciences through engaging in peer review,
 editorships and editorial board memberships of international journals. Staff in UoA5
 contribute to journal review, editorial boards and grant reviewing bodies. Indicative examples
 include reviewing grants for MRC, BBSRC, ERC, British Council (Newton Fund), multiple UK and
 international charities, the French National Research Agency (ANR) and la Caixa Foundation.
 Journal editorial positions include but are not limited to: Furness (Section Editor for NeuroReport
 and a member of the Editorial Board of Scientific Reports); Kishkinev (Associate Editor in BMC
 Ecology journal 2016–18); Forrester-Soto (permanent member of the Vector Biology Study
 Section for the NIH and Academic Editor for PLoS One); Price (Deputy Editor for PLoS Neglected
 Tropical Diseases); Wastling (Editor for Parasitology). Our staff have also contributed to learned
 societies, including the following: Furness was Secretary of the British Society of Audiology for
 6 years, engaging with clinical and public audiences across the UK with seminars, and showcasing
 elements of research via their magazine, Audacity and other ENT magazines. Price has been a
 member of Council for the British Society of Parasitology (BSP) since 2015 and is currently the
 Honorary Communications Secretary. Horrocks was also formerly the General Secretary for the
 BSP. Winter is on the Training Theme panel of the Biochemical Society considering future training
 needs.

 Our work has included public engagement and science communication on many levels. During
 the pandemic, virologist Forrester-Soto has provided many radio and TV broadcasts about
 coronavirus, including on BBC’s Newsnight. Hearing research by UoA5 staff has been featured in
 broader science magazines such as Scientia. Many staff participate in outreach activities, taking
 science out to local schools and colleges and the public, e.g., exhibitions at the Potteries Science
 Festival and Stoking Curiosity Festival (Price). Maarabouni has worked with a school to apply for
 a BA Goldcrest award on apoptosis, and Furness hosts school visits to demonstrate electron
 microscopes. Recent exhibitions at the Victoria and Albert Museum in London (Furness) have

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 brought the research in hearing into the wider public. At the University level, Price was a co-
 investigator on an RCUK Public Engagement with Research (SEE-PER) project, led by Keele’s
 PVC for Research & Enterprise. This project aimed to embed public engagement with research
 into University practice and achieved significant improvements as evaluated by the NCCPE’s
 EDGE tool.

 We have provided expert advice through knowledge exchange and our research impact on
 practice, policy, economy and society ranges from commercial benefits through development
 of crop-pest control (Impact Case Study 1), through increasing crop sustainability and reducing
 economic losses, to reducing health costs associated with vector borne diseases. Wastling is one
 of seven experts appointed to the Science Council, an independent committee of the Food
 Standards Agency (FSA) which provides high-level, strategic advice to the FSA's Chief Scientific
 Adviser and to the Board and executive of the FSA. Bruce has been invited to comment on
 BBSRC policy on crop protection, presented his research on food security and sustainability to the
 House of Commons Science and Technology Committee and provided written evidence to the
 Advanced Research Projects Agency. Forrester-Soto has given evidence to the UK Government
 on the coronavirus pandemic. Tripet’s engagement with key stakeholders, including the UN, has
 dramatically improved perceptions of gene-drive technologies for malaria, resulting in policy
 changes across Africa (Impact Case Study 2). His work has been instrumental in development of
 infrastructure and strengthening capacity for integrated vector management in Africa, notably the
 construction or refurbishment of core facilities for gene-drive mosquito containment in Mali,
 Burkina Faso, Ghana and Uganda.




                                                                                           Page 13
