Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of East London

 Unit of Assessment: 12 Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Unit Context and Structure

University of East London (UEL) is privileged to be placed at the heart of communities in East London
and has been pioneering futures since 1898. This provides us the unique opportunity to widen
access for research in order to nurture local talent who have limited resources especially from
socioeconomic disadvantaged backgrounds. Accordingly, research in engineering at UEL aims to
show new ways of seeing the world, to broaden new horizons and networks; and to encourage our
students to realise their ambitions. The emphasis is on providing them with connectivity for
collaborating and participation in world-leading research. This vision for research is ‘Inclusive and
Connected Engineering’.

Research and impact strategy

The engineering research is undertaken and administered at the Department of Engineering and
Construction within School of Architecture, Computing and Engineering (ACE). Our research
strategy is based on taking the REF 2014 performance as the baseline and to improve upon the
metrics. This has been achieved by investing in our staff, encouraging and enabling them to access
wider opportunities to maximise their research potential. This has been realised through the following
aims:

 1. Reorganise/develop new research groups to build upon our areas of strength and foster synergy
    among groups within the School, and to strengthen external collaborations, both nationally and
    internationally.
 2. Building upon our strength by investing in emerging multi-disciplinary areas such as
    Mechatronics, robotics and embedded systems and our established research areas of
    Engineering for staff and infrastructure that will help to position us as a recognised centre of
    excellence for engineering research and application in the Industry 4.0 era.
 3. Undertaking outreach programmes in local East London communities, encouraging academics
    to build networks for collaborative research, supporting open science and open access.
 4. Foster an intellectually challenging, supportive and welcoming research culture and environment
    by offering a clear road map for career progression to newly appointed staff in accordance with
    the UEL Race Equality Charter and encouraging women researchers to join STEM groups.
 5. Encourage researchers to tap into existing and new resources, support mechanisms available
    at UEL and at outside, to maximise their research potential such as sabbatical and collaboration
    funding, attending professional workshops aimed at specific bids and funding applications.
    The school is currently significantly upgrading and expanding our laboratory and other
    experimental infrastructure, to clearly position ourselves with internationally unique and leading
    capabilities. The school is investing more ~GBP900k this year in its STEM facilities and
    infrastructure. The investment will be bringing cutting-edge innovation into engineering by
    adopting modern AI (Artificial Intelligence), cloud computing and visualisation (VR and AR)
    technologies. The department of engineering and construction offers research informed and
    business focussed that are delivering Industry 4.0 and Internet of Things focused accredited
    programmes. Our students from very diverse backgrounds (>70% BAME) have won several


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    national level awards which is showcasing our commitment towards inspiring and accelerating
    careers. Many of our academics are collaborating via international research forums/ projects
    (e.g., on natural disaster management) and knowledge transfer partnerships that are already
    influencing government policies and shaping future economies and social impact. Our research
    informed degree apprenticeships programmes developed in partnership with major industrial
    players like Barclays, Accenture, Costain Skanska, Crossrail etc. Apart from apprenticeships,
    our commitment towards employability and industry related courses is also reflected in variety
    of student base we have.

As a knowledge partner in east London, UEL has developed partnerships with key stakeholders in
the London Boroughs including the Chambers of Commerce, Businesses, Local Authority Education
Departments, Schools and Colleges to enthuse the local community in developing the skills to pursue
various research informed degree programmes producing tangible impacts. Since 2014, we have
recruited 11 additional research-active staff (in a team of 25 academics). Our research strategy is
primarily focussed on upskilling mid-career researchers and mentoring early career academics. We
are focussing on professional development for all our research staff, recognising and valuing equality
and diversity, to maintain healthy work life balance, and helping staff to develop either academic or
industry careers. The school has demonstrated significant commitment towards ensuring that our
research delivers maximum impact through both academic and non-academic channels. Research
and knowledge exchange is supported via generous workload time allocations (e.g., 0.25 additional
FTE allocation for research and knowledge exchange activities).

Implementation of the strategy has led to significant improvements in various areas for the unit since
REF 2014 including research outputs, PhD completions and income generation. This was due to
substantial increase in number of staff availing the resources and opportunities available both from
internal and external sources. These improvements are detailed in sections 2 and 3. Research is
undertaken as per four research groups to build upon our areas of strength, maximise research
potential of researchers and foster synergy among groups as indicated in Fig.1 with the group
activities and leads indicated.




   Figure 1 Engineering research groups and leaders


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

Recruitment and Retention

In accordance with our research strategy, we have followed a policy of recruiting, retaining and
rewarding high-quality research active staff. With an aim of increasing women researchers in the
UoA.

JAYA NEPAL joined our unit as a lecturer in Civil Engineering in 2014. JAWED QURESHI who joined
us in 2013 as a Lecturer in Civil Engineering became a Senior Lecturer in 2014; JASWINDER LOTA
who was a Senior Lecturer in REF2014, is now a Reader in Engineering. He is the lead UoA
coordinator for this REF submission. ARYA ASSADI LANGROUDI joined UEL in 2015 as a Lecturer
in Geotechnical Engineering and became a Senior Lecturer in 2016. In addition, as per our aims we
had ALEX APEAGYEI joining UEL in 2017 as Senior Lecturer in Highways and Transportation
Engineering. RAVINDRA JAYARATNE was promoted to Reader in May 2019. JULIUS AKOTIA
joined the School in 2017 and was promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2018. For investing in emerging
multi-disciplinary areas, FAWAD INAM, who is a Professor in Mechanical Engineering (Materials &
Products) joined us in September 2018. SAMIR MORAD joined the School as a Lecturer in
Mechanical Engineering (Biomedical) in Sept 2019. BAHAR KHAYAMIAN-ESFAHANI and LUANA
PARISI joined as Lecturers in Engineering in 2019 and 2020 respectively.

Career Development and Early Career Researchers (ECR)

All new staff members are trained to supervise PhD students. Every ECR and research staff member
is assigned to a research group whose leader acts as mentor, providing support for career
development. This includes formulation of publication and networking strategies and help in
preparing research funding applications. ECRs and research staff are encouraged to gain
experience of organising conferences and workshops, supported by their mentor where appropriate.
ECRs and research staff are supported in grant application development by senior staff who provide
feedback on proposals prior to submission. LANGROUDI was successful in obtaining the
Department of Science and Technology (DST)-National Research Foundation (NRF) South Africa
Fellowship for Early Career Researchers in 2018 (Self-healing calcium Abstraction Fixation
Engineering: NFPF170627245562, GBP 20,000).

Staff Support

There is a variety of internal investment schemes and support mechanisms to support career
development. This includes applying grant bids for Sabbaticals, Early-Career, Mid-Career
researchers’ grant, International Collaboration grants and UEL research studentship schemes. In
our unit, LOTA was awarded the International Collaboration grant for development of large-scale
international projects (GBP2,500) in 2016 and a sabbatical (GBP1,200) in 2017. This resulted in
increasing collaboration across Europe by putting together a H2020 bid for IoT services in Smart
Cities consisting of partners from Spain, Portugal, France and Greece. JAYARATNE and QURESHI
were awarded sabbaticals (GBP3,387 each) in 2018 which has increased their research outputs
both in terms of quantity and quality. In addition, there are support funds, which staff can bid for such
as UEL Impact Awards, which were awarded, to MIHAELA ANCA CIUPALA (GBP3,860) and
JAYARATNE (GBP3,720) in 2016. JAYARATNE’s award has led to developing a full impact case
study that is submitted for this REF submission. JAYARATNE was also awarded the UEL Research
Studentship from 2015-18 (GBP68,880) (to recruit a PhD student), the mid-career research grant


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2016-17 (GBP4,995) and the International Collaboration grant in 2014 (GBP2,860). The in-place
support measures enabled researchers to obtain following external grants:
• JAYRATNE was successful in obtaining a funding of GBP103,948, from the National
   Environment Research Council (NERC) in 2018 for his research on ‘Compound flooding from
   tropical cyclone-induced sea surge and precipitation in Sri Lanka.
• APEAGYEI obtained funding for US GBP248.38 K to work on study titled ‘Soils Stabilization and
   Full Depth Reclamation Expert’ for soil stabilization in Nepal, in 2019; funded by the Millennium
   Challenge Corporation, USA and the Government of Nepal. (MCA-N/RMP/ICS/021, Millennium
   Challenge Account (MCA)-Nepal).
   Support is also available to enable research staff to attend international conferences such as the
   International Joint Conference Composite Structures and Mechanics of Composites ICCS 23,
   Spain in 2020 (QURESHI GBP 250), CIRP Design Conference in May 2020 and the 12th
   International Conference on Applied Human Factors and Ergonomics, USA scheduled in Jul 21
   (ESFAHANI GBP581, GBP625).

Equality and Diversity

 All appointments adhere to UEL’s Equality and Diversity Policy. In accordance with the UEL Race
Equality Charter, the Unit has a very diverse and wide representation across various sections that
includes women staff and a significant number from BAME background. The staff bring their rich
diverse experience from across countries such as Sri Lanka, India, Pakistan, Nigeria, Bulgaria,
Sudan and Iran. Training on equality and diversity is strongly encouraged for all staff, and additional
equalities training is embedded within management training.
In 2015, the university was awarded an Athena SWAN Bronze Award. Building on this success, in
2020 Athena SWAN Bronze Award was awarded to the School of ACE. Development, mentoring,
career development and ensuring a fair REF process with support by formalising the mentoring
systems, increasing ACE participation in the central Athena SWAN mentoring programme and
Aurora / Diversifying Leadership programmes are key objectives as per ACE’s Athena SWAN Action
Plan for 2019-20. UEL holds the Level Two Disability Confidence award recognising the commitment
to equality of opportunity for people with disabilities. UEL is also a Stonewall Diversity Champion in
recognition of the continuing efforts in creating an inclusive and accepting environment for our LGBT
colleagues.

In accordance with our strategic aim to encourage career progression of women researchers
CIUPALA from the UoA was appointed as the post graduate lead (PGR) lead for the School of ACE;
and subsequently the school saw significant improvements in terms of PhD completions and student
experience as indicated in the following section.

PGR Students

In addition, the university has taken significant steps to improve the experience of our research
students as our contribution to developing the next generation of researchers. All new PGR students
are supported to interact with the Graduate School, which has ownership and overview of the
research learning environment and manages all applications and recruitment, monitors progress,
and contributes to, and organises, university-wide training programmes. All new students are
expected to develop a full training needs analysis with their supervisors. The students are required
to undertake formal training provided through the university Researcher Development Framework
within the Graduate School: all new PhD students are required to demonstrate learning from core
units on research methods. All PGR students have at least two supervisors and an annual review
panel to monitor progress. All supervisors undergo dedicated training before being allowed to

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
supervise PhD students. All progress meetings with the supervisors and students are recorded
through and on-line system for efficient monitoring and recording the progress made. To improve
the PGR student experience the following actions were initiated post REF 2014 by the School:

1. Forging the definition and implementation of a clear PGR student review process in the School
   / including Engineering.
2. Developing an Action Plan on PGR experience/completion.
3. Building up the PGR student community by supporting the development of PGR student events,
   such as the 3 Minute Thesis Competition (May 2017); facilitating the development of an
   autonomous PGR Student Network in the School, which empowers students to create an
   inclusive, welcoming and exciting research environment both professionally and socially;
   facilitating the creation of fora for discussions, student engagement with the PGR provisions.
   As a result, excellent results obtained by the School of ACE in PRES 2018 when compared with
   those obtained during PRES 2015 indicating an increase is performance in all 8 compulsory
   scoring categories from 15 % (Progression) and 24 % (Resources). The School obtained the
   highest increase in the percentage of positive responses across the university for five out of the
   eight categories (Progression, Research Culture, Supervision, Responsibilities and Professional
   Development). For the “Overall Experience” category, the percentage of positive responses for
   PRES 2018 is 83.33 %, compared with 67.06 % for PRES 2015; this shows an increase in the
   positive responses of 16.27%, which is by far the highest increase across the university.
   In the UoA, a total of 22 students completed their PhD in this REF cycle, in addition there were
   seven PhD completions which were co-supervised with academics from other UoAs
   (architecture and computing).




 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income

The staff in the UoA have been successful in obtaining various research grants/funds.
This is indicative of the success of the REF strategy to encourage researchers to tap into the existing
and new resources, support mechanisms such as sabbaticals, bidding for other internal incomes to
support research, and attending professional workshops aimed at specific bids and funding
applications. Total income was GBP 1.0 M (2014-2020).
    The grants obtained are shown in Fig. 2 (with detailed
figures in Appendix) are broken down as Royal Academy
of Engineering (RAE), Natural Environment Research
Council (NERC), industry and income for ‘global
collaborations’ includes Newton Fund (Global Challenges
Research Fund, UK Newton Institution Link), Early Career
Researcher Fellowship and Royal Society UK. This being
the largest share is in line with intent of grant capture in
the UoA, which is to enhance student research experience
with a global perspective to solve problems.                  Figure 2 Income breakdown


Infrastructure and facilities

Our laboratory facilities are located adjacent to our library in our Knowledge Dock building where the
industrial, enterprise and start up units are located. Teaching staff from the School are all located on

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
one floor in one of our teaching buildings providing direct access to teaching facilities such as lecture
theatres and offering the opportunity for co-operative working both within and beyond the School.
Our engineering laboratories provide a 21st Century working environment for our research.

Engineering Resources

Since REF 2014, new resources have been introduced to ensure a vibrant research environment
among the various research groups. All PGR students are encouraged to make use of these facilities
for their research work. These include:

Advanced Manufacturing Lab This facility provides an additive manufacturing capability to the
department. It is equipped with a state-of-the-art ABB IRB robot for 3D production, a variety of
versatile 3D printers (polymer and powder-based systems), large scale printing facilities, laser
replicators for rapid prototyping, some of which are shown in Fig. 3. The Connected Devices and
Systems research group members utilise the state-of art facilities to undertake the experimental work
along with the ones mentioned in the Design and Construction Lab.




              Figure 3 Selection of facilities from the Advanced Manufacturing lab

Design and Construction Lab This provides a central service for the design, manufacture and
fabrication of equipment for teaching, research and project work. A range of machine tools are
available as shown in Fig. 4 including advanced CNC machine tools and a CNC plasma profile cutter.
Welding, model making, and casting (foundry) units are also available for students’ projects.




              Figure 4 Facilities from the Design and Construction lab



                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Structures Concrete and Materials Lab Large scale facilities are available in this area to study the
behaviour of structures and the structural components of steel and reinforced concrete as shown in
Fig. 5. During 2017/18, the School upgraded the universal testing machine by investing over
GBP35,000 in a digital data logging system. The reinforced concrete strong floor, together with the
computer controlled hydraulic testing equipment, provides the means to test large scale structural
elements under static and dynamic loading. The laboratory is also equipped with a variety of strain
measurement devices and data logging facilities. A new universal testing machine has been
purchased. In addition, the equipment is utilised for the characterisation of concrete as influenced
by proportioning, mixing and curing processes. The laboratory also contains an environmental
chamber and equipment for the testing of challenging materials such as steel. This facilitates are
made to good use for the research activities undertaken by members of the Innovative Materials and
Construction Systems and the Sustainable Engineering and Construction research group members.




                              Figure 5 Structures, Concrete and Materials lab


Soil Mechanics and Engineering Geology Lab This is show in Fig. 6 wherein the lab is equipped
to sample and prepare soils, in accordance with the latest codes and standards, to determine their
engineering properties, to analyse the chemical properties of solid and pore fluids and to undertake
model     structure     interaction.    The
equipment includes sieves, Casagrande
limit apparatus, standard cone apparatus,
soil    density     measuring      devices,
compaction and shrinkage apparatus.
The equipment used for determining the
strength of soils include vane, shear box
consolidation and swelling apparatus. Tri-
axial and unconfined compression tests
are performed using 1 and 5 tonne
compression machines and constant
pressure systems. This laboratory is also
equipped with a pneumatically controlled,
large scale, cyclic loading triaxle rig that
can be used for soil specimens up to
                                             Figure 6 Soil Mechanics and Engineering Geology lab
100mm in diameter. All of the equipment

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
in this laboratory is computer controlled with all readings being recorded by data logger software.
The lab is furnished with point load index apparatus and a 25tonne compression-testing machine for
determining the strength of rock. PUNDIT apparatus is used to determine density comparison and
isotropic characteristics of rock and the influence of discontinuities on insitu P wave velocities. Slake
durability apparatus is available to be used to determine weathering index values. This facilitates the
experimental work undertaken by the Innovative Materials and Construction Systems research
group.

Hydraulic Engineering Lab This facility is made available in the same floor space as above
facilities. This lab is equipped with two long open channels with discharge meters and tilting facility,
a mobile bed sedimentation tank, venturi flume and a rainfall simulator with electrical pumps and
sumps. Small-scale model hydraulic and coastal defences structures can be tested for
hydrodynamics properties and overtopping volumes using two long open channels under various
flow depths and dam-breaking type tsunami wave conditions respectively. In addition to that, sluice
gates, broad crested weirs, bridge piers, model flood levees, miniature pressure sensors, propeller
type current meters, digital video cameras, mechanically operated point gauges are available for
research and teaching purposes. The mobile bed sediment tank is connected to a soil protrusion
apparatus, where the combined equipment is used to carry out sediment transport research studies.
A data acquisition software, the LabView, is installed in one of the computers in the lab for capturing
experimental test data with a wide range of frequencies. A high-performance research PC placed in
the lab runs a number of numerical modelling suites such as Weather Research Forecasting (WRF),
Delft3D and HEC-RAS models. This lab facilitates research activities undertaken by members of the
Flood Risk Modelling & Mapping research group.




                             Figure 7 Hydraulic Engineering lab

Surveying workshop and laboratory This area houses our surveying equipment, which includes
an extensive range of (Circa 40) total stations, a 3D laser scanner, geodetic grade GPS receivers,
digital and optical levels, including precise levels, electronic and optical theodolites, Unmanned
Aerial Vehicles (drones), and all supporting ancillary survey equipment. There is external access for
issue of field equipment. There is also a workshop facility with pillar drill, lathe and milling machine

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
for development and repair of equipment. The laboratory of networked PCs with specialised software
including ArcGIS, ERDAS remote sensing and Leica Photogrammetric Suite software, Leica
Geomatics Office for GPS processing, Move3 for network design and adjustment, LSS for land
surveys and terrain modelling, Cyclone, Pointools and Faro Scene for processing laser scanning
data. The laboratory also contains measurement pillars, a laser interferometer, analytical
photogrammetric plotter, examples of aerial cameras and a large format (A0) plotter. The facilities
are utilised by members of the Flood Risk Modelling and Mapping research group.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaboration activities of various research groups

A snapshot of various collaboration activities for research groups is given is Fig. 8 for which the
details are summarised in this section.




                                  Figure 8 Collaborative activities


Connected Devices and Systems The group collaborates with Prof. Andreas Demosthenous
(Sensors, Systems and Circuits Research Group at UCL) for communication technologies and signal
processing applicable to wireless and biomedical signals. The collaboration includes Prof. T
Rappaport (a leading pioneer in wireless communication) at New York University (NYU) for
developing millimetre-wave (mmWave) technology in 5th Generation (5G) mobile communications
such as design of low-power, low-latency, hybrid beamforming and multiple-input multiple output
(MIMO) systems. Specifically, developing devices and systems for mmWave V2V, V2X to overcome
the limitations of low data-rate in current state-of-the-art communication protocols, i.e., the Release
14/15 Cellular (C) V2V and Dedicated Short-Range Communication (DSRC). Other partners include
5G Innovation Centre (5GIC) at the University of Surrey.
The group has carried out research in collaboration with Imperial College, Newham Borough and
Colas (a major highway contractor) for CAV and the opportunities to shape the road infrastructure
around them to address issues such as pollution, congestion and safety, which are of vital concern
to policy makers in London and the UK as a whole. The group collaborates with Ford UK and IBM to

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
improvise future manufacturing practices which will be required for Industry 4.0 such as Symbiotic
Simulation of Ford Engine Manufacturing Systems, and undertaking Symbiotic Simulation using
Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Data.

Innovative Materials and Construction Systems The group is carrying out a collaborative
research project with Heriot-Watt University for examining the responses of steel-fibre-reinforced
concrete structures under impact loading. This includes both experimental and numerical analyses,
with the aim of developing simplified design guidelines for impact-resistant structures in locations
like Malaysia.
The group also collaborates with Lytag, the main manufacturer of recycled lightweight aggregate
concrete in UK and one of the main global producers of this type of aggregate, looking at the
structural responses of lightweight concrete structures reinforced with steel fibres in order to enhance
its ductility and load-carrying capacity. Recently, the research work with Lytag has been augmented
with a collaborative project with Arup, a leading global engineering consulting firm, looking at
reducing the amount of cement used in lightweight concrete mixes.
The group has also maintained collaborative research links with Professor Kotsovos from the
National Technical University of Athens in Greece, an internationally renowned expert on reinforced-
concrete structures. Their current work examines the use of innovative design and assessment
techniques (namely the compressive-force-path method) to the structural assessment of reinforced-
concrete bridges in the UK.

In addition, the group activities include undertaking research with Newham Borough looking into the
potential impact of using Building Information Modelling (BIM) on regeneration projects. The group
members have collaborated with colleagues in University of Nottingham, Europe and USA (RILEM
Technical Committee 237-SIB: Testing and characterization of sustainable innovative bituminous
materials and systems, Transportation Research Board) on cutting-edge research.
These collaborations resulted in co-authorships of three technical reports, four peer-reviewed journal
articles and three book chapters in the past couple of years. The group was part of large consortium
of major universities and organisations led by the University of Nottingham that submitted GBP15m
bid to the RCUK’s “Interdisciplinary Research Hubs to Address Intractable Challenges Faced by
Developing Countries” call in 2018.

Flood Risk Modelling and Mapping The group has been actively undertaking post-disaster field
surveys to gather necessary engineering parameters to develop predictive tools (e.g., mathematical
and numerical models), management strategies and stakeholder (community) consultation work for
mitigation of natural disasters such as coastal erosion (due to extreme waves), storm surges and
tsunamis in Asia and beyond. The field studies include the 2004 Indian Ocean Tsunami, the 2013-
14 Winter storms in the South West of England, and the 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake and
Tsunami. It has set-up strong research partnerships with University of Plymouth, University College
London and overseas universities in Japan (Waseda University, University of Tokyo, Yokohama
National University, Kansai University), Sri Lanka (University of Peradeniya), Canada (University of
Ottawa), Indonesia (Institute of Technology Sumatra, Bandung Institute of Technology), and Vietnam
(Ho Chi Minh City University of Technology).

Other collaborators include the UK and overseas government departments include Environment
Agency, Coast Conservation & Coastal Resource Management Department (CC&CRMD), Climate
Change Secretariat, Department of Meteorology, Sri Lanka and Prefectural Governments
(Kanagawa and Wakayama) of Japan. Engineering consultancies include HR Wallingford, Black &
Veatch, WS Atkins and Lanka Hydraulic Institute.


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       One of the outstanding successes of these collaborations was winning the Natural
Environment Research Council’s (NERC) Catalyst SHEAR (Science for Humanitarian Emergencies
and Resilience) bid for the project titled “Compound flooding from tropical cyclone-induced sea surge
and         precipitation       in       Sri     Lanka        (C-FLOOD)”          in     2018       -
https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=NE%2FS005838%2F1.
The group has been awarded the Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation’s award for a disaster risk
reduction (DRR) project “Different scales of natural hazards and community education” with UCL
and Kansai University in 2018 focusing on disaster-prone communities in Essex, Devon (England)
and Wakayama, Oita (Japan), https://www.uel.ac.uk/news/2018/10/uk-japan-disaster-reduction.
    The group has collaborated with several international universities on various disaster resilience
projects. This includes a coastal erosion project in Sri Lanka with CC&CRMD, University of Tokyo
and Yokohama National University;and a tsunami forecast model for Karakatau in Lampung,
Indonesia with Institute of Technology Sumatra, Bandung Institute of Technology and Waseda
University.
    The group organised the” Emerging Ideas in Water Emergency Management Conference 2019”
with the Chartered Institution of Water & Environmental Management (CIWEM) and a RAE Visiting
Professor to UEL, in December 2019. This event, designed to generate new partnerships with
prominent water-related industries with UEL, not only brings together specialists from the UK, and
overseas, and includes contributions from the School staff and postgraduate students.
     The group is involved in outreach activities with secondary school students, seeking to inspire
the next generation of engineers such as for sixth formers to consider technology-based careers
(e.g., Royal Society funded project with Frederick Bremer School, Walthamstow).

Sustainable Engineering and Construction The group has collaborated with UK and oversees
universities such as University of Michigan USA on cutting-edge research relating to the seismic
strengthening of concrete buildings with Fibre Reinforced Polymer (PRP) materials. The
collaboration also includes and sustainable design and construction of buildings such as bio-
insulation/bio-composite materials. The UK collaborators are University of Sheffield and University
of Bath. European collaborators include University of Gent, Belgium; Atomic Energy
Commission/CEA, Saclay, France; University of Patras, Greece and Sapienza University of Rome,
Italy. These collaborations resulted in the co-authorship of nine peer-reviewed journal papers and
one book chapter from 2013-2017, as well in 6 PhDs completions (2013-2018).

UN Sustainable Development Goals (Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities)

•   Joint collaboration by the Innovative Materials and Construction Systems and Sustainable
    Urban Built Environment groups is towards realising the UN Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and
    Communities. For this APEAGEI and CIUPALA working together have resulted in creating wider
    impact for development and utilisation of industrial by-products for sustainable construction. This
    case study has been submitted by the UoA as one of the two for REF 2021. Other collaborators
    include the Sustainability Research Institute (SRI) UEL, and UK industrial partners such as Arup,
    Aggregate Industries, CRH group, Augean PLC, Thames Water, Tate & Lyle, and OCL
    Regeneration. The underpinning research has led development and use of artificial construction
    materials from industrial by-products, plant-based bituminous binders and recycled materials for
    highway pavement; thereby leading to significant reduction in virgin construction materials,
    greenhouse gas emissions. The impact provides incentives to drive waste management
    companies to implement this approach because of the high cost of hazardous waste landfill
    (GBP130 - GBP150 per tonne) in the UK and increasing demand for lightweight and thermally
    insulating concrete together with use highway recycled technology resulting in cost-savings of
    at least 50%.

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    The collaboration entailed the development of the required design methodology and technical
    specifications, training of Nepal government officials in Cement Stabilization Design, laboratory
    testing and full-depth reclamation (FDR) design methods to optimize lifecycle costs in Nepal.
    Development of standard specifications and training materials on recycling technologies is
    contributing to more sustainable and cost-effective ways of repairing failed roadways around the
    world.

•   Underpinning research undertaken by the Flood Risk Modelling and Mapping Group has
    impacted on ensuring safety for coastal communities by developing disaster prevention
    mechanisms against tsunamis, extreme waves and floods. It is also being submitted as one of
    the two UoA impact case studies for REF 2021. The study has been instrumental for assisting
    practitioners and professional services involved in coastal disaster management and managing
    environmental risks for various stakeholders such as fisheries and policy makers e.g., for the Sri
    Lanka’s Coast Conservation and Coastal Resource Management Department and Japan’s the
    Kanagawa Prefectural Government. The study has increased awareness, attitudes and
    preparedness for tsunamis, storm surges, extreme waves and floods of disaster-prone
    communities in Marawila, Hita, Inami, Lampung, Sturmer and Slapton.

Wider contribution to research base and society

Majority of staff are active in leadership activities at a national level on a regular and ongoing basis.
Many staff are active internationally, setting research agendas and defining the grand challenges of
the future. An online event organised by LANGROUDI for ‘Nature Inspired Solutions for the Built
Environment’ a working party formed in 2021, for its first annual meeting in Feb 2021. Total of 37
speakers from England, Scotland, Ireland, USA, Canada, Australia, Italy, France, Taiwan, Malaysia,
Mexico, South Africa and Ukraine discussed their perspectives of nature-inspired Models, Materials
and Methods in ground engineering. Speakers were from a broad spectrum of disciplines, including
environmental philosophy, geotechnical engineering, robotics, materials, bioscience, biotechnology,
social sciences, asset management, geology and planetary sciences. The working party will
collaborate towards a radical re-thinking of engineering ground, and the impacts, as discussed in the
meeting, will be visible in future structures both on earth and on mars.

The following sections provide summary figures and key examples, indicating the breadth and depth
of our leadership activities:

A. Leadership roles in advisory boards, industry, commerce, research councils, learned societies or
professional bodies.

APEAGYEI serves on various expert panels including the Transportation Research Board of the
National Academies, USA where he is a member of the National Cooperative Highway Research
Program (NCHRP) Project Panel on Guide Construction Specifications for Cold In-place Recycling
(CIR) and Cold Central Plant Recycling (CCPR) (2019-2021). APEAGYEI is registered in the EC
Expert Database in the area of polymer-modified bitumen, asphalt concrete and by-products and
recently served as expert for the Latvian government. APEAGYEI also serves on the Steering
Committee of the Nottingham Asphalt Research Consortium.

LOTA is a member of the UK5G Innovation Network that enhances links between academia and
industry. This includes the UK Government’s 5G Testbeds and Trials Programme. LOTA is a
member of the UK Spectrum Policy Forum 5G Working Group under the Future Technologies
Network (TechUK) Network. His contributions include identifying key technical challenges faced by

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
UK companies for development of key facets of 5G technology; applications, roll out and exploitation
of 5G networks; findings of which are published in the White Paper “5G Innovation Opportunities A
Discussion paper”, Future Technologies Network Aug 2015.

CIUPALA’s research on seismic design of buildings and energy efficiency in buildings has resulted
in participation, as a PI/ investigator, in two EU research projects. She was a member of “COST
Action TU1207” European research network, contributing to the development of the “Next
Generation Design Guidelines for Composites in Construction” (2015 –2017). She has served as an
Expert Evaluator and Rapporteur for EU research proposals (2012-to date); Expert Monitor for EU
research projects (2016-to date) and Expert Evaluator for UK/EPSRC research proposals 2017.

B. International Conference organisation committee members and programme chairs:

•   LOTA was Chair for Special Session on Security of Complex and Nonlinear Networked Systems:
    Analysis Control and Optimisation, at the IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and
    Systems (ISCAS 2020) Seville Spain, the premier flagship international conference on circuits
    and systems.
•   JAYARATNE has been a member of following organising committees:
§   Emerging Ideas in Water Emergency Management Conference 2019 with the Chartered
    Institution of Water & Environmental Management (CIWEM) at UEL in December 2019.
§   Special Session on Hydraulic Structures at the 6th International Conference on Structural
    Engineering & Construction Management, at University of Peradeniya, Kandy, Sri Lanka in
    December 2015.
•   INAM has been programme chair for following:
§   6th International Conference on Environmental Engineering and Sustainable Development
    (CEESD 2021), 2-5 December 2021, Singapore.
§   5th International Conference on Environmental Engineering and Sustainable Development
    (CEESD 2020), 3-6 December 2020, Xishuangbanna, China.
§   4th International Conference on Aerospace Science and Engineering (ICASE-2015), 2-4
    September 2015, Islamabad, Pakistan. Conference funded by IEEE.
    C. Invited keynote lectures and presentations.
•   LOTA was invited speaker at the First Workshop on Advancements in Circuits and Imaging,
    organised by the European Doctorate in Image Sensors and Optical Nanotechnology (EDISON)
    University of Oxford, held in September 2015 for lecture on ‘Compressive sensing & delta-sigma
    modulators’.
•   JAYARATNE has delivered guest lectures on tsunamis, extreme waves and sediment transport
    modelling at Waseda University (2011-2017), National Autonomous University of Mexico (2014),
    Lanka Hydraulics Institute (2015-17), University of Peradeniya (2015), Dubai Municipality
    (2016), National Aquatic Resources Research & Development Agency (2016), University of
    Ottawa (2017), Yokohama National University (2018) and Institute of Technology Sumatra
    (2019).
•   INAM has delivered following keynote presentations:
§   Next generation fullerenes – Carbyne based nanocomposites for aerospace applications, 1st
    International Congress on Engineering Technologies (EngiTek 2020), 16-18 June 2020, Irbid,
    Jordan.
§   Carbyne filled carbon nanotubes – polymer nanocomposites, Invited Guest Speaker, 24 April
    2020, Cambridge Graphene Centre, University of Cambridge.




                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
§   Utilisation of carbon nanotubes in oil/ gas applications, 3rd International Conference on
    Advanced Materials and Process Engineering (NEDAMPE-2019), 11-12 December 2019,
    Karachi, Pakistan. Funded by Engro Corp.
§   Graphene for Smart Materials Engineering, 3rd Brazilian Conference on Composites Materials
    (BCCM3), 28-31 August 2016, Gramado, Brazil. Conference funded by IoM3, Du Pont, JEC
    group, netcomposites, Toho Tenax, SAMPE and Composites UK.
§   Utilisation of carbon nanotubes in oil/ gas applications, 2nd International Conference on
    Advanced Materials and Process Engineering (NEDAMPE-2017), 12-13 December 2017,
    Karachi, Pakistan. Funded by Engro Corp.
§   Structural Health Assessing Capabilities in Polymer and Ceramic Nanocomposites filled with
    carbon nanofillers, International Conference on Structural Nano Composites (NANOSTRUC
    2014), May 2014, Madrid, Spain. Funded by FP7 and KTN Nanotechnology.
§   Processing fullerenes for next generation HPHT thermoplastic umbilical systems, 4th
    International Conference on Polymer Processing and Characterization (ICPPC-2016), 9-11
    December 2016, Kerala, India.
§   Fullerenes for Airbus A350’ wings, 4th International Conference on Aerospace Science and
    Engineering (ICASE-2015), 2-4 September 2015, Islamabad, Pakistan. Conference funded by
    IEEE.
§   Carbon nanotubes for next generation aircraft materials, 3rd International Conference on
    Polymer Processing and Characterization (ICPPC-2014), 11-13 October 2014, Kerala, India.
    D. Journal editorships and editorial board membership for given in this section.

•   INAM
§   Editor (special issue, journal Crystals, Q2) since 2020
    https://www.mdpi.com/journal/crystals/special_issues/Carbon_Fabrication
§   (Along with LANGROUDI), Editors (special issue, journal GeoHazards) since 2020
    https://www.mdpi.com/journal/geohazards/special_issues/nature_engineering
§   Editorial panel (journal Graphene) since 2015 http://www.scirp.org/journal/Graphene/
§   Editor (special issue, journal AIMS Materials Science) since 2020
    https://www.aimspress.com/aimsmates/article/5788/special-articles
§   Editor (special issue, journal Polymers) 2018 – 2020
    https://www.mdpi.com/journal/polymers/special_issues/graphene_fullerene
    https://www.mdpi.com/journal/polymers/special_issues/fullerene_polymer
§   Editor (special issue, journal Molecules) 2018 – 2020
    https://www.mdpi.com/journal/molecules/special_issues/molecules_in_engineering
    https://www.mdpi.com/journal/molecules/special_issues/engineering_applications_materials
•   LOTA is Associate Editor/Editorial Board Member for the IEEE Transactions on Circuits &
    Systems: I (2018-todate).
    and has/is Guest Editor on Special Issues for following top ranking journals:
§   IEEE Transactions on Circuits & Systems-I 2021 Special Issue on Enhanced Systems and
    Circuits for Network 2030 Beyond 5G
§   IEEE Transaction on Circuits & Systems I Special Issue 2017 on the CASS Flagship
    Conferences (APCCAS 2016, ICECS 2016 and ISCAS 2017);
§   IEEE Transactions on Circuits & Systems-II Feb 2015 Special Issue on Biomedical and
    Bioelectronic Circuits for Enhanced Diagnosis and Therapy.
•   JAYARATNE is Associate Editor of the Coastal Engineering Journal, Taylor & Francis (2019-
    todate).
    APPENDIX: INCOME DETAILS
    (Refers to Section 3 Income)


                                                                                      Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    TOTAL INCOME ~GBP 1.0 M (2014-2020)

    RAE
o   Towards the Adoption of the ‘Fall Cone’ as the Standard Method of determining the Index
    Parameters in South Africa IAPP1R2\100195. Industry Academia Partnership Programme
    – 17/18 Round 2.
    Commences:           02          Apr        2018.         Duration:         24        months.
    Amount: GBP 72,000
    Partners: Central University of Technology Free State, South Africa, Letaba Lab, Bloemfontein,
    South Africa.

    NERC
o   C-FLOOD (Compound flooding from tropical cyclone-induced sea surge and precipitation
    in Sri Lanka), funded by NERC’s ‘SHEAR’ Catalyst Scheme
    01 Nov 2018. Duration: 24 months (extended until September 2021 due CoVid-19 pandemic).
    Amount: GBP103,948.60, Total grant of GBP252,805
    Partners: University of Plymouth (lead), UCL, University of Peradeniya, Sri Lanka and Coast
    Conservation & Coastal Resource Management Department, Sri Lanka.

    GLOBAL COLLABORATIONS

o   Kansai University, Japan Integration of disaster risk reduction and climate change
    adaptation for Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
    Commences: 1st April 2020 – 31st March 2023 (due to CoVid-19 pandemic research agreement
    was not finalised in 2020. This project is officially started in 2021)
    Amount: GBP33,000 (UEL share GBP15,750)
    Partners: Kansai University and UCL.


o   Soils Stabilization and Full Depth Reclamation Expert, (MCA-N/RMP/ICS/021), Millennium
    Challenge Account (MCA) – Nepal.
    Amount: US $ 300,467.00.
    Consultancy to Nepal for stabilizing soils and reclaiming pavements
    with cement.
    Funders: Millennium Challenge Corporation, USA and the Government of Nepal.

o   Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation (GBSF) Relationship between beach profile evolution
    and sediment mixing depth: Laboratory and mathematical modelling
    Commences: 1st June 2019 - 30th November 2020
    Amount: GBP3,200 (Awarded to UEL and its share GBP1,600)
    Partners: Yokohama National University, Japan

o   Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation Community engagement in preparing for natural
    water disasters of different time and magnitude scales – A comparative study between
    UK and Japan
    Commences: 1st July 2018 – 30th June 2019
    Amount: GBP7,000 (UEL share GBP2,955)
    Partners: UCL and Kansai University, Japan



                                                                                         Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
o   Research England – Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) Awareness and
    preparedness of local communities in Vietnam and Indonesia under climate-driven and
    geophysical hazards
    Commences: 15th Nov. 2018-31st July 2019
    Amount GBP5,610
    Partners: Ho Chi Minh City University of Technology, Vietnam; Bandung Institute of Technology,
    Indonesia


o   Research England – Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) Understanding coastal
    erosion issues with a focus on the alleviation of natural hazards and risk analysis-A case
    study in Sri Lanka
    15th Nov. 2018-31st July 2019
    Amount GBP2,045
    Partners: Coast Conservation & Coastal Resource Management Department, Sri Lanka;
    University of Tokyo; Yokohama National University, Japan


o   UK Newton Fund Energy Efficiency in Buildings
      (Newton Institutional Links Fund)
    GBP 2,85,000 Grant number 2015EGY.


o    Newton Fund Understanding coastal and river sediment transport processes with a
    focus on the alleviation of natural hazards and risk analysis
    1st Dec 2016- 31st Aug 2017
    Amount: GBP1,360
    Partners: Coast Conservation & Coastal Resource Management Department, Sri Lanka;
    University of Tokyo, Yokohama National University, Japan


o    Newton Fund Modelling natural hazards with community behaviour
    20th-25th March 2017
    Amount: GBP1,000
    Partners: Ho Chi Minh City University of Technology, Vietnam

o   SAFE2 (Self-healing calcium Abstraction Fixation Engineering 2) DST – NRF Fellowships
    for Early Career Researchers from the UK. NFPF170627245562.
    Commences: 01 June 2018. Duration: 06 months.
    Amount: GBP 20,000
    Partners: Central University of Technology Free State, South Africa

o   Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation (GBSF) Understanding coastal erosion processes
    with a focus on mitigating natural hazards and risk analysis.
    Commences: 1st April - 31st Dec 2017
    Amount: GBP1,600
    Partners: Waseda University, Japan

o   Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation (GBSF) Hard engineering solutions to mitigate
    natural disasters: Tsunamis and storm surges

                                                                                         Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Commences: 1st December 2014 – 30th September 2015
    Amount: GBP2,000
    Partners: Waseda University, Japan

o   Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation (GBSF) Mitigating future tsunami and storm surge
    disasters
    Commences: 1st April 2013 – 31st March 2014
    Amount: GBP3,200
    Partners: Waseda University, Japan

    INDUSTRY

o   Industry funded project: Symbiotic Simulation using Artificial Intelligence and Data
    Management
    Commences: 2017. Duration: 12 months
    Amount: GBP260,000 Grant & GBP395,000 Industry Contribution)
    Partners: Ford Motor Company Limited (Lead), HSSMI Limited.




                                                                                Page 17
