Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Warwick

 Unit of Assessment: B9 Physics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Structure of Research
  We aim to make discoveries across fundamental and applied physics and to apply that
  knowledge for the benefit of society. Over the last two REF cycles, we have expanded our
  collaborative and interdisciplinary activities within the University and beyond, and this has led to
  important impacts, particularly in the industrial and health sectors. Our strategy in core physics
  has been to build research power in astrophysics and particle physics, complementing our
  existing strengths in condensed matter, plasmas and theory. We now have critical mass in all
  our main areas of activity, with each working at the forefront of knowledge.
  This REF period has seen continued growth in research volume – paper output (800 p.a.) and
  research awards (£21M in 19/20) have both doubled – and quality (average citation rate
  increased from 13 to 23 per article, total citations >40,000 p.a, 12 staff in the top 2% of global
  scientists per Stanford list), together with increased interaction with other disciplines and
  impact. Physics has a ten-year growth strategy, that includes expansion into new thematic and
  interdisciplinary areas, and will benefit from considerable investment in new science
  infrastructure. Much of the growth in this period has been achieved by appointing excellent
  early career researchers, who by 2030 will represent the core of the department.
  Research in Physics is structured around five Research Clusters. Table 1.1 shows growth in
  every cluster since 2014, with the number of independent researchers submitted to REF2021
  increasing by 38%. A corresponding increase in supported research is reflected in more
  PDRAs and PhDs. Boundaries within and between clusters are deliberately loose to encourage
  interaction between staff and with other departments/outside organisations. The clusters set
  their own priorities, guided by the departmental strategic framework developed after external
  review in 2012 (20:20 Vision) and renewed in 2019 (2030 Insight). In this, we have set priorities
  for future investment and expansion for the periods before and after moving into a new Physics
  building (University’s STEM Grand Challenge, REF5a-4.2), which is a major part of the
  institutional strategy Excellence with Purpose (REF5a-2.1) planning 40% STEM growth at
  Warwick by 2030.

    Research Cluster                      Independent              Postdocs               PhDs
                                           researchers
                                        2013       2020          2013      2020     2013     2020
    Astronomy & Astrophysics              8           16           5        17       10          23
    CFSA                                  8            9           7         9       26          22
    Condensed Matter Physics           23 (+6#)    28 (+3#)       31        35       64          87
    Elementary Particle Physics           9           18          11        13       17          22
    Theoretical Physics                   7           10          10        10       22          22
    Total                                 61          84          64        77      139       176

         Table 1.1: Distribution of research active staff and PhD students (heads), showing
          change between REF2014 and REF2021 census dates. #Submitted in UOA12.


                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.2 Research Objectives
 The following highlights illustrate alignment to the objectives set out in REF2014 and future
 direction for each research cluster:
    a) Astronomy & Astrophysics (A&A) focuses on time-resolved observational astrophysics,
       encompassing white dwarfs [Gänsicke, Marsh, Tremblay], high energy transient events
       such as gamma-ray bursts (GRB) or mergers of stellar remnants that generate
       gravitational waves (GW) [Levan, Lyman, Stanway, Steeghs], and the discovery/study
       of exoplanets [Pollacco, West, Wheatley]. A&A staff make extensive use of ground- and
       space-based telescopes, and we operate our own facilities at premier observing sites in
       Chile and La Palma.

        A&A is world-leading in the theoretical and observational analysis of white dwarfs. By
        exploiting data from the European Space Agency (ESA) Gaia mission we have enlarged
        the sample of known white dwarfs by an order of magnitude, and are leading the
        spectroscopic follow-up within the WEAVE, DESI, SDSS-V and 4MOST surveys
        [Gänsicke, Tremblay]; uniquely, A&A leads activity in all four experiments, as well as
        making high-time resolution observations of these systems with instruments we have
        developed [Marsh].

        Multi-messenger astrophysics is a rapidly growing area with enormous potential,
        especially driven by advances in LIGO’s sensitivity and the ESA LISA mission due to
        launch in the 2030’s. A&A is leading UK efforts to identify optical counterparts to GW
        events with our purpose-built Gravitational-wave Optical Transient Observer (GOTO,
        §3.2d) [Lyman, Steeghs]; two additional academics will be recruited in 2021 to expand
        this activity as a core of our forward strategy.

        Exoplanetary science is a frontier research field in astrophysics. A&A has capitalised on
        the colocation of experts from the Wide Angle Search for Planets (WASP/SuperWASP)
        consortium and recruited a further 7 academic posts and 3 permanent research officers in
        this area to position Warwick as a leading global centre for exoplanet science (§2.1a).
        We aim to cover the full life-cycle of planets from their formation in the dusty proto-
        planetary discs around stars [Kennedy, Meru], through a potentially habitable phase
        [Bayliss, Brogi, Cegla], to debris on stellar remnants [Gänsicke, Tremblay, Veras].
        Although principally an observational group, recent hires have provided significant
        modelling expertise [Tremblay, Veras] and developed machine learning techniques to
        find planets in massive survey data sets [Armstrong]. Building on the SuperWASP
        legacy, A&A has led development of the Next Generation Transit Survey (NGTS, §3.2b),
        which is now routinely discovering exoplanets of Neptune or smaller size [Bayliss,
        Wheatley]. Furthermore, Pollacco has driven the PLATO (PLAnetary Transits and
        Oscillations of stars, §3.2a) space telescope mission to adoption by ESA for launch in
        2026 to search for Earth-like planets around bright stars.

        A&A have developed an astrodynamics activity applied to debris in the near-Earth
        environment. Initially based on SuperWASP data, this has expanded to include other
        facilities, dynamical modelling, and partnership with DSTL, to commercialise tracking of
        bodies in low-Earth and geosynchronous orbits.




                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    b) The Centre for Fusion Space & Astrophysics (CFSA) is an interdisciplinary centre
       embracing plasma physics applied to the grand challenges of magnetic and inertial
       confined fusion power (MCF, ICF), space plasma physics, solar physics, and
       astrophysics. The research spans fundamental theory, observation, and the analysis of
       experimental data, combined with high performance computing (HPC).

       CFSA is engaged with key plasma research centres in our region, including Culham
       Centre for Fusion Energy (CCFE), Rutherford Appleton Laboratory (RAL) and AWE, as
       well as large, multi-£B international facilities for fusion (JET, MPI, KSTAR, ITER)
       [Chapman, Dendy, Hnat, McMillan], extreme plasmas (LLNL) [Gericke] and solar/space
       missions (NASA-Parker Solar Probe, NASA-SDO, GONG, ESA-Solar Orbiter, Cluster)
       [Broomhall, Nakariakov, Verwichte]. Recognising the importance of host star dynamics
       to planetary evolution has enabled us to exploit synergies between CFSA and A&A
       research in solar flares, astroseismology and transient astronomy.

       CFSA is the leading centre for plasma HPC codes (e.g. EPOCH [Impact Case Study,
       ICS-1], Odin) applied in fusion physics, space weather prediction, and fundamental
       plasma physics of the solar corona, shocks and turbulence. CFSA works with
       international MCF experiments, combining simulation with experimental data to unravel
       kinetic physics underlying stability, current generation, and remote diagnostics for burning
       plasmas, all of which are on the critical path to fusion as a commercial power source. In
       this cycle, Arber’s activity has expanded into ICF.

       With space weather now on the UK National Risk Register, CFSA investigates the full
       chain of fundamental solar-terrestrial plasma physics and its implications. Nakariakov
       leads international radio astronomy projects based on his nonlinear MHD modelling and
       analysis of solar coronal observations. Arber is engaged in developing European space
       weather forecasting capability. Chapman, supported by a Fulbright scholarship, has built
       collaborations in space weather with leading institutes, most notably JHU/APL and NASA-
       JPL, and applied her analysis to climate change and its economic consequences in
       collaboration with Georgetown University, LSE, and the NORKLIMA network on climate.

    c) Condensed Matter Physics (CMP) combines in-house experimental materials growth
       and characterisation research with research at, and management of, international
       facilities. CMP, previously structured as individual (REF2008) or combined (REF2014)
       research groups, is now returned as a single cluster to reflect the many interactions and
       collaborations between staff.

       Activity in magnetic materials, 2D layered materials and ferroics has increased, through
       new appointments and facilities for thin-film devices [Alexe, Broome, Wilson]. Prior
       work in semiconductors and surface science [Bell, Leadley] has been applied to new
       research fields, such as Van der Waals epitaxy.

       High resolution electron microscopy and X-ray diffraction underpin our nanoscale
       materials research [Beanland, Sanchez, Sloan, Thomas]. We make extensive use of
       and contribute to development of international neutron and synchrotron facilities (ISIS,
       ILL, ESRF, SPring8, Elettra etc.) [Bikondoa, Duffy, Hase]; together with Liverpool, we
       have run the XMaS beamline at the ESRF as a UK National Facility for over 20 years
       (§3.3b).


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       The Warwick Centre for Ultrafast Spectroscopy (WCUS, §3.3g) was co-created in 2016
       by Lloyd-Hughes as a multi-user, femtosecond laser facility. Our terahertz activities
       have expanded with the appointment of Milot and MacPherson, whose THz studies of
       skin increases our medical physics activity, with impact in healthcare.

       Single crystals of materials exhibiting high-Tc superconductivity, frustrated magnetism, 2D
       skyrmions, and topological insulators grown in Warwick are much sought-after and
       supplied to over 50 different research groups worldwide, as well as fuelling our extensive
       research program [Balakrishnan, Goddard, Lees, Paul, Petrenko, §3.3d].

       Warwick’s NMR strategy is to be at the leading edge of technique development and
       central to UK provision, running the UK National Facility for High Field Solid State NMR
       since 2010 [Brown, Hanna, Iuga, Dupree, §3.3a]. Our ssNMR research is highly
       applicable to a range of industries, spanning pharmaceuticals, materials for catalysis,
       biomaterials for tissue engineering, energy materials, supramolecular hydrogels, and
       cellulous in plant cells. Work with research partners, such as Astra Zeneca, BP,
       Infineum, Johnson Matthey, has led to significant impact [ICS-4].

       Diamond research [Newton, Green, Morley, §3.3d] benefits from a long-standing
       relationship with De Beers and Element Six; commercial application led to ICS-3 & ICS-5.
       Warwick leads the UK Diamond Science and Technology (DST) CDT and have
       participated in three of the four UK Quantum Technology Hubs. Our research into
       diamond NV centres has led to expansion into theory and practical quantum
       measurement [Green, Newton, Morley, Datta, Broome].

       Ultrasonics research [Dixon, Edwards], concentrating on industrially relevant research
       challenges, has led to three spin-outs in addition to generating impact with industry [ICS-
       2] through Warwick’s Centre for Industrial Ultrasonics (CIU) [ICS-6] and the UK Research
       Centre for Non-destructive Evaluation (RCNDE).

    d) Elementary Particle Physics (EPP) activity encompasses energy frontier studies with
       ATLAS, flavour physics with LHCb, and neutrino studies with T2K and now DUNE &
       Hyper-K. Research focuses on detector development, trigger hardware/software; event
       simulation/reconstruction; and physics analysis. EPP research capability has been
       significantly strengthened by strategic appointments in key areas: ATLAS trigger/real-time
       analysis [Becker, Facini], LHCb analysis [Kenzie, Vesterinen], neutrino interaction
       reconstruction [Marshall] and neutrino water Cherenkov detector readout and analysis
       [Richards]. EPP have a strong leadership record in major international collaborations:
       Gershon, Murray, Ramachers, Harrison have been Physics Coordinators for LHCb,
       ATLAS, SuperNEMO and BaBar, respectively; Barker, Farrington & Gershon have
       coordinated UK partners; all researchers are encouraged to take convener roles of
       important working groups (§4.1d).

       EPP are contributing significantly to LHC upgrade projects and future neutrino
       experiments. For ATLAS, we deliver production and quality control of Inner Tracker
       modules [Mitra]. For LHCb [Back, Kreps, Latham, Morgan], Gershon is UK leader for
       Upgrade 2, we are part of TORCH, and have a key trigger upgrade role. In neutrino
       physics, Barker is PI of DUNE-UK; Marshall leads development of LAr reconstruction
       software; Boyd has a lead role in implementing optical calibration for Hyper-K and


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Watchman, and Richards provides the data acquisition for many water Cherenkov
        projects, including Hyper-K. Ramachers’ interest in high precision, ultra-low background
        experiments has opened new opportunities in quantum sensor technology for neutrino
        mass measurement (QTNM), dark matter (Darkside) and neutrinoless double-beta decay
        (LEGEND).

    e) Theoretical Physics, Soft Matter & Biophysics (TP) works on problems in non-
       equilibrium biophysics, the dynamics of complex fluids, molecular and materials
       modelling, quantum transport and quantum information science. TP’s longstanding
       leadership of scientific research computing across the University, Quigley’s direction of
       the Scientific Computing Research Technology Platform, and appointments of Hine and
       Bartok-Partay (joint with the School of Engineering, SoE) place TP at the heart of the
       University’s strong, interdisciplinary computational materials modelling capability (§1.3d,
       §3.4). TP members collaborate extensively with experimental groups working on both
       hard condensed matter and bio-/soft matter, e.g. 2D heterogeneous materials,
       nanocrystallisation, permanent magnets [d’Ambrumenil, Hine, Quigley, Römer
       Staunton]. Datta’s expertise in quantum information theory complements quantum
       technology developments by experimental CMP colleagues. Theoretical physics ideas
       [Ball, Römer, Turner, Alexander] are applied to mathematics of complex systems and
       the biosciences in interdisciplinary activities relating to antimicrobial resistance and
       physics of life [Polin, Kantsler]. As a result, an integrated theory/experimental project on
       DNA transcription combined optical measurements with theoretical modelling.

 1.3 Interdisciplinary research
    a) Interdisciplinarity is a key theme that enhances the vitality and sustainability of Warwick’s
       research environment. The compact campus, open approach, and thematic Global
       Research Priorities (GRP, REF5a-2.9.1) present opportunities for physicists to have an
       impact on some of the world’s most challenging issues through research in health,
       manufacturing, energy, food etc. Physics academics regularly work across disciplinary
       boundaries, collaborating on projects in chemistry, biophysics, medical physics, plant
       science and engineering. Physics initiated the Materials GRP (co-led by Leadley until
       2019) and created a cross-faculty Centre for Habitability, co-led by Armstrong, that has
       become a University-wide GRP with members’ interests spanning astrophysics and life
       sciences, to philosophy and film studies. In 2020, Ball initiated the interdisciplinary
       Warwick Centre for Soft & Active Matter to create a critical mass of 30+ academics from
       six departments, with interests spanning biological physics, polymers, nanocomposites
       and properties of cells.
    b) Two staff have 50% joint appointments with SoE – in the Centre for Industrial Ultrasonics
       (CIU) and in computational materials modelling; two soft matter physicists have 30%
       appointments in Warwick Medical School (WMS). Three staff whose research is in
       applied physics/engineering are submitted in UOA 12 (Dixon, Edwards & Myronov).
    c) Joint activity with Chemistry in the Millburn House Magnetic Resonance Centre extends
       to shared CDTs on analytical science and diamond. We operate joint facilities with
       Chemistry for X-ray photoemission spectroscopy (XPS) and ultrafast spectroscopy
       (WCUS, §3.3g). Research Technology Platforms (RTP, §3.3c, REF5a-4.3) for X-ray
       diffraction, electron microscopy, spectroscopy and scientific computing, directed by




                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Walton, Beanland, Newton and Quigley, respectively, provide facility access and data
         analysis for researchers across the institution and external users.
    d) TP have a close relationship with Mathematics, esp. via Complexity, and co-supervise
       PhD students from interdisciplinary CDTs in mathematical, physical and life sciences.
       With the Centre for Predictive Modelling, Staunton and Hine created the EPSRC CDT in
       Modelling of Heterogeneous Systems (HetSys), which spans six departments. CDT
       activity unites researchers through jointly supervised PhD projects, retreats, workshops
       and interdisciplinary seminar series.
    e) Our widespread collaboration in projects and international facilities (§4.1) provides further
       opportunities for interdisciplinary activity.

 1.4 Impact
    a) Our research and expertise are relevant in application areas across energy, materials,
       electronics, pharmaceuticals, as well as satisfying curiosity to understand the Universe.
       Our impact strategy is to ensure all researchers recognise the potential for impact
       inherent in their work and are provided with the time, skills and support to develop it.
    b) Physics has built a strategy to actively manage the development of impact from our
       research and embed this within the culture. An academic Impact Director (REF5a-2.6),
       supported by an Impact Manager help researchers recognise exploitable aspects of
       their research, identify support mechanisms, build relationships with partners, and track
       progress from early stage ideas to IP licenses and/or establishment of fully-formed spin-
       out companies. The Physics Impact Director represents all of STEM on the University’s
       Research Impact Advisory Group (REF5a-2.6). External users can access our
       expertise and facilities for short term, responsive projects that have been key to
       developing our impact, as illustrated in our ICSs. We have provided incubation space
       for three spin outs over the period: Sonemat, Advanced-Epi, Cytoswim.
    c) Close contact with support staff in R&IS (REF5a-1.7), Warwick Innovations (WI, REF5a-
       2.8) & Warwick Scientific Services (WSS, REF5a-4.3.1) enables rapid signposting of
       opportunities and linking potential beneficiaries to the researchers. The impact support
       teams agree flexible IP positions and impact pathways with industrial collaborators at
       the start of research and translational projects, which also enables us to gather
       information on end-users of the technology.
    d) For astronomy and particle physics, where direct pathways to impact are less obvious,
       an STFC Innovation Partnership Fellow (IPF) has been employed to seek exploitation
       opportunities which form an important part of our future impact pipeline (§4.2b).
    e) Co-funded PhDs are very effective for external engagement. As well as EPSRC CASE
       studentships, Warwick Collaborative Postgraduate Research Studentships (WCPRS)
       share costs 50:50 between University and industrial partner. Currently, 27 PhD
       students have support from companies including Johnson Matthey, AWE, Huawei,
       De Beers, Rolls Royce, EDF, GSK and AstraZeneca, with their projects featuring in our
       ICSs. HetSys-CDT runs 3-day Industry Study Groups where staff and PhDs collaborate
       on genuine commercial problems.
    f)   Staff are encouraged and supported to develop Impact from their research via:
           i.   Funding for staff time, consumables, equipment, prototype construction,
                secondments into and out of Physics for staff devoted to exploitation projects.
                Over £1M has been distributed from EPSRC/STFC IAAs & HEIF, via the

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                Warwick Impact Fund (REF5a-2.7), with a further £1M via ERC Proof of Concept
                and Innovate UK.
          ii.   Time for impact activities, made available within our workload model and the
                University Impact Leave scheme (REF5a-2.6), e.g. Brown spent 20% of his time
                for two years at AstraZeneca developing their ssNMR capability [ICS-4].
         iii.   Embedding themselves in company activities, supported via Royal Society
                Industry Fellowships (Dixon at Rolls Royce, ICS-6) or the company (Newton at
                Element Six ICS-3).
         iv.    Employing Knowledge Transfer Partnership fellows in companies
                (Brown - 3 KTPs with AstraZeneca; Hanna - KTPs with Infineum, Cryogenic).
          v.    Welcoming company staff (e.g. from Arcinova, Element Six) to use our facilities
                as Visiting Professors/Researchers.
         vi.    IAA funds have been used to employ consultants e.g. to advise on creating
                Sonic Driver Ltd. from Dixon’s ultrasonics research and setting up its
                manufacturing capability [ICS-2].
        vii.    Protecting IP, with support from R&IS/WI to create initial NDAs, negotiate
                contracts for partnership activities, registering 43 new patent applications, and
                creating 10 new license agreements.
        viii.   Training researchers in entrepreneurship and identifying a market, through
                courses for staff, within doctoral training, and especially the ICURe scheme for
                ECRs (REF5a-2.8) experienced by three staff resulting in spinouts EddySense,
                Advanced Epi. and Cytoswim.
         ix.    Academic promotion criteria have been revised to explicitly reward engagement
                with external stakeholders and generation of impact – impact featured in eight
                successful promotions, including four to Professor.
    g) Engagement activities are supported financially and logistically, ranging from bottom-up
       networking events for academics and industry on specific topics, branded as “Physics
       Days”, to international meetings utilising Warwick Conferences’ excellent facilities.
       Internal “Impact Days” highlight the range of potential impactful activities to PhDs,
       PDRAs, academic staff and support teams, create networking opportunities and inspire
       others to engage, thereby ensuring vitality and sustainability. Physics originated
       external facing “Industry Days” on specific themes to promote collaborative research
       (§4.2a). These now extend across STEM and have directly led to staff secondments
       and new projects. Newton (Conference Chair) organises The Annual Diamond
       Conference in partnership with De Beers (held at Warwick since 2009), attracting over
       150 academics, equipment manufactures and end users of diamond products.
       Networking from this event underpins the DST-CDT, external funded use of the
       Spectroscopy RTP, and ICS-3/5. Annual CIU meetings and focus groups, attended by
       industrial partners and local MPs since 2011, have led to more than 20 industry
       collaborative projects [ICS-6].
    h) Societal impact is generated from enhancing public knowledge of our exciting science.
       Research-based and educational outreach is delivered enthusiastically to schools, the
       general public, and industry across all our main research themes (§4.3).




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.5 Open research environment
    a) Research papers are made available Open Access either before or immediately after
       publication on preprint servers, arXiv, INSPIRE, ADS and/or our institutional repository
       WRAP (REF5a-2.10). Gold OA is enabled where funding is provided by the research
       sponsor.
    b) We follow the Concordat on Open Research Data (2016). Thomas chaired the Open
       Research Data Task Force, making recommendations to Government to benefit from
       open research data more rapidly. Examples of our engagement with open data:
              Researchers deposit publication data in WRAP as a permanent archive with
               persistent DOI.
              The large consortia (e.g. ATLAS) and international facilities we use all have data
               sharing agreements.
              SuperWASP data acquired since 2004 is available via the NASA Exoplanet
               Archive; 18 million lightcurves can be interrogated; papers on WASP planets
               have appeared at a rate of 34 p.a. throughout this REF cycle.
              The SDSS-V Science Archive is seen as its main product; previous SDSS data
               releases led to >10,000 papers.
              GOTO will survey the whole sky regularly, and publicly share discoveries in near
               real-time to maximise opportunities for studying the relatively short-lived events it
               discovers. Its survey dataset will offer a legacy archive for a broad range of time-
               domain astrophysics.
              NGTS releases reduced data products through the European Southern
               Observatory (ESO, our host) archive.
              XMaS follows the generic ESRF data sharing policy; raw data is backed-up on
               tape after 6-months with associated metadata, and made publicly available after
               three years. Commercial users pay an access fee for data rights; no copies are
               retained to protect the data.
              The National Facility for High Field ssNMR retains raw and processed data at the
               spectrometer, with daily backup. Users access their data remotely from
               protected directories, with confidential data invisible to others. After a period,
               non-proprietary data becomes public.
              For data intensive activities, only the code and parameters are stored, as
               rerunning a simulation is more economical than storing TBs of output data.
              Software is developed as Open Source (§3.4b) and made publicly available for
               non-commercial use [ICS-1].

 1.6 Support for a culture of research integrity
    The University Research Integrity and Ethics Committee (REF5a-2.4/2.5/2.11), which Leadley
    chairs as DPVC for Research, ensures the Concordat to Support Research Integrity is followed
    and provides ethical approval for research projects; esp. in medical and biological physics.
    All researchers (and PhDs) are required to complete Epigeum’s Research Integrity training
    alongside modules on ED&I and Unconscious Bias. Guidelines have been developed to
    enable international collaboration within the Trusted Research framework.
    Warwick supports the Technician Commitment (§2.1k) and the principle of fair attribution.



                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People
 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Development
    a) Our staffing strategy has been to expand while ensuring long-term sustainability. This
       has been achieved by (i) primarily recruiting at Assistant Professor level and developing
       staff internally; (ii) confirming indefinite positions for Senior Research Fellows who have
       either attained independence or remain vital to delivering our research; (iii) attracting
       holders of prestigious fellowships, and retaining them with indefinite positions – nine
       joined in the period. In total, 44 substantial fellowships have been held:

   UKRI              Future Leaders Fellow          Cegla*, Lyman*, Richards*
                     Stephen Hawking Fellow         Nealon*
   EPSRC             Career Acceleration Fellow     Datta, Goddard, Lloyd-Hughes, Quigley
                     Established Career Fellow      Dixon*, Sloan*
                     Leadership Fellow              Turner
                     Daphne Jackson Fellow          Spiga*
   STFC              Ernest Rutherford Fellow       Armstrong*, Kenzie*, Veras*, Vesterinen*
   Royal Society     Dorothy Hodgkin Fellow         Meru*
                     Industrial Fellow              Dixon*
                     University Research Fellow     Blake*, Morley*, Kennedy*
   RAEng             Industry Fellow                Dixon
                     Research Fellow                Green*
   Leverhulme        Research Fellow                Gänsicke*, Kapourniotis, Marsh*,
                                                    Meru, Oates, Turner*
   1851              Research Fellow                Knee
   ERC               Advanced Grant                 Gänsicke, Nakariakov
                     Consolidator Grant             Farrington*, Goddard*, Levan*, Vesterinen*
                     Starter Grant                  Edwards, Gershon, Tremblay*
   Fulbright-Lloyds of London Scholar               Chapman
   Humboldt          Research Award                 Alexe*
   Wolfson           Research Merit Award           Alexe, Pollacco, MacPherson*

                           Table 2.1 Fellowships held. *current awards
          The 28 indefinite appointments since REF2014 are designed to:
              Strengthen TP – Datta (2015, quantum measurement), Hine (2015, materials
               modelling), Bartok-Partay (2019, materials modelling, 50:50 with SoE)
              Enhance CMP, refocussing and linking existing staff – MacPherson (2017,
               THz/medical), Broome (2018, 2D materials/quantum), Milot (2018,
               THz/photovoltaics).
              Develop EPP, opening opportunities for new projects – Mitra (2016, hardware),
               Marshall (2018, neutrinos), Vesterinen (2018, LHCb), Facini, Becker (2019,
               ATLAS), Kenzie (2019, LHCb), Richards (2019, neutrinos).
              Grow astrophysics, especially exoplanets – Tremblay (2015), Armstrong,
               Bayliss, Brogi, Kennedy, Veras (2017), Meru (2018), Cegla, Lyman (2020).



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
             Confirm independence/secure indefinite positions for prominent research fellows
              – Blake (EPP), Broomhall (CFSA), Bikondoa, Green, Iuga (CMP).
             Create indefinite positions for critical facility support staff – Goffrey, Bennett
              (CFSA), Ciomaga-Hatnean, Li, Walker (CMP).
         Six of these are women (21%), increasing the fraction of female staff submitted to
         REF2021 to 16%, in line with our long-term EDI strategy to promote women’s careers in
         Physics.
    b) Our 2019 Strategic Renewal set a staffing strategy to 2030, with posts identified to
       recruit at three Gateways along with new areas of expansion once additional space and
       facilities become available via Warwick’s STEM Grand Challenge (REF5a-4.2). The
       immediate next priority is to expand time-domain astronomy, emphasising GW follow-
       up, and CMP in 2D materials, quantum science and NMR, with appointments in 2021/22
       (after a Covid-induced delay).
    c) Staff are highly satisfied working in Warwick Physics (80% positive, Pulse Survey
       2019), with very few leavers (5) in the period, demonstrating the attractiveness of the
       research environment and collegiality of the department. Four professors left, two for
       family reasons – Levan taking a position in Nijmegen and Farrington in Edinburgh;
       McConville moved to Australia as a PVC; Paul sadly died in 2019.
    d) Our flexible workload model accounts for funded research time in distributing
       administrative and teaching duties, including allowances for staff with caring
       responsibilities, running facilities, or management roles. Staff can take short periods
       away, to perform experiments at international facilities/telescopes, coordinate major
       projects, deliver external courses, or contribute to impact.
    e) Academic Leave has benefitted 22 staff, most taking a full year to enable research
       collaboration with an overseas institute, take up an award (e.g. Leverhulme Fellowship,
       Fullbright Scholarship), build institutional links, or focus on particular research
       responsibilities (e.g. ATLAS Higgs coordinator). The 18% taken by female staff fully-
       reflects the population. Exchanges with industry are also facilitated via Impact Leave,
       KTP Associates, EPSRC and Royal Society Industry Fellowships. Industry personnel
       are able to use University facilities by appointment as Visiting Researchers (§4.1a).
    f)   Rotation of staff through key departmental committees improves representation, builds
         resilience and provides development opportunities to ensure sustainability. Active
         succession planning has enabled Marsh and Harrison, who founded the A&A and EPP
         groups in 2003/4, to transfer leadership of these expanding groups to Steeghs and
         Barker, respectively; Leadley was Deputy HoD for 5-years prior to becoming HoD in
         2015 and will hand over to Newton in 2021.
    g) Assistant Professors have up to six years of reduced teaching/administration, with
       mentoring and training, to establish their research activity; promotion to Associate
       Professor follows once probation criteria are satisfied. New appointees receive a start-
       up package, including a funded PhD studentship to grow their research group.
    h) Development for researchers is encouraged at every career stage. Warwick follows the
       Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (REF5a-3.3). Contract
       research staff and PhD students are specifically represented at the Physics Staff
       Meeting, Research Committee, and Welfare & Communications Group (WCG). Physics
       postdocs hold monthly seminars, in addition to thematic seminars in research groups.
       Warwick’s Institute for Advanced Studies (IAS, REF5a-2.9.2) provides Early Career

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Fellowships to support PhDs transition to independent postdoctoral research careers,
         and Associate Fellowships for PDRAs to join a diverse, respectful and mutually-
         supportive interdisciplinary community. ECRs are supported in fellowship applications,
         with successes shown in Table 2.1. More senior staff can develop management skills
         through the Warwick Leadership Programme. All staff (including PDRAs) have an
         annual Personal Development Review that includes setting research goals, identifying
         training needs and long-term career mentoring.
    i)   58 academic staff have been promoted (98% success, REF5a-3.3), including 27 of the
         35 non-professorial staff submitted to REF2014 (including all the women). Eight have
         been promoted twice, and one three times (becoming the department’s fifth female
         professor). Five more-recent appointees have already been promoted, two twice.
         Twelve senior postdocs became Senior Research Fellows, recognising their growing
         independence. Further along the Research-focussed track, four became Principal
         Research Fellows and 3 full Professors. 32% of promotions on this track were female.




                         Figure 2.1: Age profile of independent researchers.
    j)   By predominantly recruiting ECRs, the demographic profile of independent researchers
         (Fig. 2.1) retains a median age of 46. On average, women and men establish a
         permanent academic appointment at age 31.6 and 33.9, respectively. This two-year
         difference persists through promotions; 33% of both male and female academic staff
         are Professors, with women reaching that grade at 42.6 and men at 45.0.
    k) Warwick upholds the Technician Commitment to ensure visibility, recognition, career
       development and sustainability for technicians in HE. We co-lead the TALENT
       programme (REF5a-4.3.2) for the eight Midlands Innovation (MI) universities, with £3M
       of Research England funding, to enhance career opportunities and recognition for
       technicians. In 2015, MI founded the UK Higher Education Technicians Summit,
       attracting over 700 delegates in 2019, and recognises technicians through Papin Prizes
       which have been won by our Building Services Manager and two electron microscopy
       technicians. We have a rolling programme of appointing trainee and apprentice
       technicians, who rotate through workshops and research groups.
    l)   Staff are rewarded for their achievements in research and impact through external
         prizes (§4.4b), annual Merit Pay and institutional awards, e.g. Astrophysical Transients
         won Team of the Year 2018, Pollacco for Research Excellence 2016.
         Physics instigated an annual prize for the best PDRA paper, which has now been
         replicated across the whole science faculty.


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.2 Research students
    a) 253 research students were recruited in the period. Studentships are openly advertised,
       with applications encouraged from under-represented groups: the diverse postgraduate
       population is now 30% female, 25% BAME and 34% international. The current
       population of 167 PhDs exceeds a PhD:staff ratio of 2:1, is an increase of 30% over the
       REF period, and includes a student for all new staff. A further 19 PhDs registered in
       other departments are co-supervised by 10 Physics staff, representing 7% of the UOA
       supervisory load. Each year, about six complete an MSc by Research, with several
       subsequently enrolling for a PhD.
    b) Studentship funding comes from a multitude of external and internal sources: EPSRC
       DTP/CDTs and STFC quota awards support the majority; Royal Society URFs secured 5
       additional studentships; 4 came from ERC grants, and 27 were industry funded.
       Warwick has invested £4.1M for PhD scholarships in physics: 14 international students
       won University Chancellors Scholarships or partnership funding with Monash and
       EUTOPIA; 25 from department’s own funds; WCPRS enabled 11 studentships to be 50%
       funded with companies and central facilities (ILL, Diamond Light Source, ISIS, Cockcroft),
       including 3 AWE employees studying part-time.
    c) Physics staff lead three interdisciplinary CDTs (§1.3). Students in each CDT are
       separately recruited and have dedicated programmes of taught courses and cohort
       activities.
          i.    HetSys-CDT (Director: Staunton) spans all STEM areas, has 15 industrial
                partners and connections to 14 international research centres. HetSys exposes
                students to real world scientific computing challenges, including immersive
                challenges on actual problems that benefit the industrial partners, and ensures
                they gain the necessary theoretical/computational skills to contribute in a wide
                range of areas/careers.
         ii.    DST-CDT (Director: Newton) involves 10 UK universities and over 30 companies
                exploiting diamond. Initial cohort teaching at Warwick, followed by regular group
                activities and the annual Diamond Conference maintains student cohesion across
                multiple sites. DST-CDT follows the successful Integrated Magnetic Resonance
                CDT model (active to 2016). Graduate destinations include De Beers, NPL, E6,
                III-V Catapult, M2 lasers, and PDRA positions.
         iii.   AS-CDT (Director: Brown) exploits Warwick’s world-leading analytical science
                facilities and expertise, together with external facilities at partners (e.g. Diamond,
                ILL, ISIS) to train PhD students in STEM, life and medical sciences, in close
                partnership with industry (e.g. AstraZeneca, Lubrizol, Syngenta).
                Both DST- and AS-CDTs were created in 2013 with EPSRC funding, and are now
                self-supporting through strong industrial engagement and commitment from
                Warwick.
        Ball, Turner and Alexander contribute to delivery and management of EPSRC
        Mathematics for Real-World Systems CDT, which involves Computer Science, Maths,
        Statistics and 25 external partners.
        Polin and Kantsler contribute to the MRC Interdisciplinary Biomedical Research DTP,
        with WMS, SLS Computer Science and Statistics.
        Warwick is one of six partners in the EPSRC CDT in Future Innovation in Non-Destructive
        Testing (FIND-CDT), led by Bristol which continues the RCNDE CDT, that also includes

                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         49 international companies such as EON, EDF, Airbus.
         Sanchez is on the advisory board for the EPSRC CDT in Compound Semiconductor
         Manufacturing.
         The Centre for Postgraduate Training in Plasma Physics and High Energy Density
         Physics has provided training for CFSA PhDs, alongside those at Oxford and Imperial, in
         collaboration with RAL, AWE and CCFE, since 2014.
    d) All postgraduates are assigned a primary and second supervisor. Each also has a
       “feedback supervisor”, from outside their research area, who monitors progress.
       Students on industrial projects, or working away from Warwick (e.g. at ILL, ESRF,
       CERN), also have external supervisors. Additional support and guidance is provided by
       the Director of Graduate Studies (DGS), Postgraduate Coordinator, and through the
       University’s Doctoral College (REF5a-3.10).
    e) Students are trained in graduate-level physics via our Physics Graduate School (PGS)
       and develop transferable skills via Doctoral Skills (DS) courses, or equivalents within a
       CDT. The PGS provides a broad knowledge relevant to their research and expands their
       horizons beyond the immediate field, with modules from the Midland Physics Alliance
       Graduate School, Warwick-specific graduate-level modules, and external national/
       international courses (e.g. STFC Summer Schools, ILL courses). Widely transferrable
       skills develop via DS activities include scientific writing, research ethics & integrity, project
       management, teaching, and team-working. The University developed SkillsForge for
       students to build their skills portfolio, perform development needs analysis, and discover
       additional training opportunities. DS activities contribute to the PG Certificate in
       Transferable Skills in Science, which is accredited by institutions including the IOP and
       maps onto CPhys requirements. Progression is monitored via interviews, cohort activities
       (posters & seminars), and tracking students’ training portfolios.
    f)   Research students are fully integrated into the department’s research culture. Every
         student has their own office space, with postdocs and other members of their research
         group. Each group has a seminar programme, including opportunities for student
         presentations. A postgraduate-only seminar series encourages informal interdisciplinary
         collaboration. An annual research symposium showcases their research. The
         Postgraduate Student Staff Liaison Committee meets twice termly to highlight and solve
         issues, e.g. students wanted additional mental health support and consequentially
         established a weekly well-being café.
    g) We prioritized postgraduates in planning Covid-safe laboratory research and provided
       funded extensions for all those whose progress had been affected.
    h) PhD students can contribute to undergraduate teaching and demonstrating. Initial
       training for teaching contributes to DS activities; extending this training with self-reflection
       leads to HEA Associate Fellowship. Revised employment contracts as Graduate
       Teaching Assistants now fix hours at the start of a year and provide greater security.
       Warwick Awards for Teaching Excellence have regularly been won by physics
       postgraduates.
    i)   Following introduction in Physics, a Faculty prize is awarded annually for the best thesis
         in each discipline. In addition, we nominate a Springer prize-winner and an
         astrophysicist for a Winton Capital prize.
    j)   252 doctoral degrees have been awarded (REF4a: 222.29 FTE). After completion, 38%
         take up postdoc positions in prestigious universities around the world e.g. EPFL, Harvard,
         Oxford, NTU, Princeton, or are employed in a diverse range of occupations outside of

                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        academia: scientific research (22%), computing, finance, consulting, teaching, patents
        etc. Advice is available from physics specific careers counsellors on academic and non-
        academic pathways. As well as University employment events, we run an annual PhD
        Careers Fair with representatives from employers, including Warwick alumni.
    k) Several PhD students have founded their own companies e.g. Overleaf, a LaTex
       development environment; Luxembourg Ion Optical Nanosystems, helium ion
       microscopes (HIM SIMS).

 2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
    a) As detailed above, EDI is embedded in everything we do and recognised by Athena
       Swan Silver and IOP Juno Champion awards held and renewed in the REF period.
       Furthermore, Physics staff contributed strongly to promoting EDI across the University
       and the AS institutional Silver award (REF5a-3.4, Thomas lead author, Leadley on SAT,
       Bell on Gender Taskforce). EDI is a central agenda item for WCG, chaired by the HoD,
       but is also considered at all levels of decision making and represented in the make-up of
       departmental committees. We have now moved the EDI discussion beyond the
       male/female dichotomy to be fully-inclusive of all diversity and benefitting the entire staff,
       as seen in the highly positive staff survey results.
    b) Advertisements for recruitment are written in inclusive language, with the option of part-
       time offered for all posts. All staff involved in short-listing and interviewing complete
       training in EDI and Unconscious Bias. Single gender shortlists require express HoD
       permission. Recruitment, progression, rewards, invited speakers are monitored for
       inclusivity and reported annually to all staff against our Juno/Athena Action Plan.
    c) Health and Safety of staff and students is led from the HoD through a departmental H&S
       Committee with representation from academics, technicians and postgraduates.
       Protocols for risk management developed within Physics have been adopted across the
       University and the department has gained OHSAS 18001 certification.
       We signpost to Wellbeing support (REF5a-3.4) for staff and students, including a 24/7
       Employee Assistance Programme.
    d) Staff with caring responsibilities, or returning from illness, are offered additional support
       (REF5a-3.4). Maternity leave (12 instances) of up to a year, including paid Keeping-In-
       Touch days, can be followed by an equal period of Warwick Returner’s Fellowship to re-
       establish active research, with options of part-time working. Two staff have been
       supported in returning to scientific research with flexible Daphne Jackson and Dorothy
       Hodgkin Fellowships. In the last five years, 16 researchers have taken paternity leave
       and four have shared parental leave; three male staff have taken career breaks. Funds
       are provided for childcare to enable conference attendance for both staff and PhDs.
    e) In preparing this REF submission, we followed the University COP (REF5a-3.5) to assess
       independence of researchers. A mixed gender panel selected on average 3.00 (2.34)
       Outputs from each female (male) submitted; BAME staff each contributed 2.75 Outputs.




                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Research Funding
    a) Research Income has grown steadily: £67.3M of income was received during the census
       period, with an average annual income 20% greater than REF2014. UKRI provides 76%
       of our funding: £30M from EPSRC; STFC funding doubled to £17.5M, in line with our
       targeted expansion and included £12.5M of Consolidated Grants for A&A, CFSA and
       EPP. £8.7M of EU funding was received and £4.4M came from industry/Innovate UK.
    b) Income in-kind is vital to our research, contributing the equivalent of £113.3M for
       competitively reviewed international facility time (123% greater p.a. than in REF2014). In
       addition to £60.1M recorded in REF4c, we used £53.2M of non-UKRI sponsored facilities:
       Facility                Name                            Usage                Value £
                                                     million AUs     months
    HPC            ARCHER/HECToR                          500         + 18          3,238,246
                   Marconi fusion                       420,000 node-hours            381,818
                   HPC Mid+                                20                         357,015
                   Cirrus                                  5                          184,500
                   BlueJoule, Hartree Centre                           6               20,000
                   DiRAC                                       value                   10,320
                   Isambard                                       "                     6,776
                                                               Days
    Synchrotrons ELETTRA, Trieste                               153                   767,000
                 SPring8                                        105                   616,440
                 NSLS-II, Brookhaven                             69                   225,000
                 ANTARES, Soleil                                 30                   152,000
                 APS, Argonne                                    12                   183,846
                 Heinz Maier-Leibnitz (FRM II)                   18                    65,000
                 Helmholtz Zentrum (XPP)                          7                    35,000
                 Swiss Light Source                               5                    25,000
    Solar        Big Bear                                        23                   176,923
    Observatory Swedish Solar Telescope                          20                    65,455
                                                       Nights        Orbits
    Telescopes     HST (full value)                                   307          23,615,385
                   ESO, 3.6m                               72                         666,667
                   CAHA                                    2                           20,000
                   TNG (via Italian GAPS)                 144                         900,000
                   Observatoire Haute Provence             9                           45,000
                                                        Shifts        Days
    X-ray & free   FELIX                                   7                           15,000
    electron       LCLS, SLAC                              24                       5,538,462
    lasers         NIF, LLNL                                           7            8,076,923
                   European XFEL                           15                       6,136,364
                   OMEGA, USA                                          3              230,769
                   PHELIX, GSI Germany                                 20             490,909
                   FLASH, DESY Germany                                 6              272,727
                                                       Weeks         Hours
    Magnetic       NHMFL, Florida                          8                          131,700
    Fields         HMFL, Nijmegen                                      80             203,636
                   LANL, pulsed fields                     20                         308,000

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

          We make significant use of:
             High performance computing (HPC) allocations worth £3.82M – Tier-1
              HECToR/ARCHER; Tier-2 Dirac, Cirrus, Isambard, Mid+.
             CMP facilities – X-ray synchrotrons (ESRF, Diamond, Elettra, SLS, ANTARES,
              APS, NSLS, SPring8); neutron sources (ILL, ISIS, PSI); high magnetic field labs
              (Grenoble, Nijmegen, Los Alamos Tallahassee); NMR and free electron laser
              (FELIX). £17.0M.
             Solar observatories (Big Bear, Swedish SO & Goode solar telescopes), space
              probes (SDO, STEREO, Hinode, Parker Solar Probe, Solar Orbiter) and
              radioheliographs (SRH, eOVSA). The solar community generally shares data
              freely so these are not directly costed.
             A wide range of telescopes, both ground (VLT, NTT, ALMA, ING, LT, GTC, VLA)
              and space based (Chandra, XMM, HST). Warwick received one of largest
              allocations outside USA of 307 Hubble Space Telescope orbits. NASA assumes
              $100k/orbit, rather than the UK Space Agency contribution of £4.3k/orbit used in
              REF4c, valuing our HST use at £23.6M. £35.0M.
             X-ray lasers for plasma physics, with shots valued at £20.8M.
             Particle physics at CERN (ATLAS and LHCb) valued at £35.1M.
              Our extensive participation in neutrino experiments, T2K, MICE, ProtoDUNE, is
              not directly costed.
    c) Research Awards continue to increase, averaging £12.8M p.a. (£5.7M p.a. for REF2014).
       32% of T&R staff time, and 79% for research-focussed academics, is now recovered from
       external grants. £21M of awards in 2019/20 secures our future Research Income.
    d) Investigators are directed to relevant funding opportunities, with R&IS (REF5a-1.7)
       support throughout the application. Warwick’s flexible approach enables us to access
       opportunities at short notice. An especially successful aspect of our funding strategy has
       been to guide internal and external fellowship candidates, which netted £18.5M (including
       £6.4M of ERC grants).
    e) ECRs have been mentored to obtain independent resources, e.g. Brogi received an
       STFC New Applicants grant in 2018; Milot won an EPSRC New Investigator Award in
       2020. A £2M EPSRC award purchased underpinning multi-user equipment for ECRs.
       Postdocs have been helped to establish independence, e.g. 1851 Fellowship for Knee;
       Leverhulme ECFs for Oates, Kapourniotis; Daphne Jackson Fellowship for Spiga.
    f)   Over £20M has been invested in postgraduate research training, from a wide range of
         sources (§2.2b). £4.1M of Warwick’s own funds has ensured all new staff recruit a
         student within their first two years. Industrial funding of £1.8M, particularly in NMR,
         diamond, ultrasonics and plasma physics, has contributed to postgraduate research
         reflected in our ICSs.

 3.2 Strategic Investments in Astronomy
    a) Growth of exoplanet science has been a strategic focus. Pollacco has been the driving
       force behind ESA’s adoption of PLATO as the third medium-class mission in their
       Cosmic Visions programme. PLATO’s main goal is detection/characterisation of
       terrestrial planets within the habitable zone of Solar-like stars. It will also characterise
       thousands of rocky, icy, and gaseous planets, investigate planetary system architectures,

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         and perform asteroseismology of thousands of stars, requiring ultrahigh precision,
         uninterrupted, photometric observations for periods up to several years. PLATO includes
         over 500 researchers from 14 ESA Member States. To coordinate scientific activities,
         Pollacco established the PLATO Science Management project office in Warwick, with two
         permanent scientific administration posts. New exoplanet researchers have been
         recruited (§2.1a) to establish significant research activity now, in preparation to reap
         maximum benefit from PLATO observations after 2026. Warwick has received £2.2M of
         PLATO income to date.
    b) Wheatley leads the wide-field, ground-based Next-Generation Transit Survey (NGTS) at
       the Chilean Paranal Observatory. NGTS is a consortium with QUB, Leicester, Geneva,
       DRL and three Chilean universities. An array of 12 small fully-robotic telescopes
       operate at 520-890nm, maximising sensitivity to bright but relatively cool/small host
       stars. The unprecedented photometric precision (150 ppm) has enabled the discovery
       of exoplanets as small as 3 Earth radii. Combined with long-period observing capability,
       NGTS will enable detailed follow-up of candidate planets from survey instruments such
       as TESS. Warwick invested £370k to initiate NGTS and has subsequently received £2M
       from STFC for construction and operation.
    c) The original SuperWASP instrument on La Palma has been repurposed primarily to study
       the near-Earth environment. As more satellites are launched, it is increasingly crucial to
       map and understand the nature of space debris, and minimize the impact on satellite
       operations. Over £2.5M has been invested in partnership with UKRI, DSTL and several
       SME’s.
    d) Building on our heritage of developing small, highly capable observatories, the
       Gravitational-wave Optical Transient Observer (GOTO) is a wide-field robotic telescope
       designed to rapidly search large areas of sky for transient optical sources. It is optimized,
       and synchronised, to respond to GW events detected by LIGO/VIRGO. GOTO’s first
       phase, consisting of 4x40cm telescopes on a single mount to provide a 20 square degree
       field-of-view, has been deployed on La Palma, with £300k of Warwick funding and £1M
       contributions from 9 partners (§4.1b). 46 GW triggers were followed-up during
       LIGO/VIRGO Science Run 3 in one of the most comprehensive searches, typically
       spanning ~1000 square degrees. A further £3M of STFC funding now allows us to both
       double the La Palma instrument and build a Southern Hemisphere counterpart in
       Australia to complete the 32 telescope, 2-node configuration. The GOTO consortium is
       led by Steeghs and was pivotal to Lyman’s FLF.
    e) HiPERCAM has been developed, from UltraCAM by Marsh and Dhillon (Sheffield), as a
       portable, fast-transient camera with five spectral channels for mounting on large
       telescopes. HiPERCAM was deployed as a visitor instrument on the 4.2m WHT and
       10.6m GTC telescopes in 2018. Over 200 papers have been published using UltraCAM
       data, with 2500 citations to date. These unique instruments observe black holes, white
       dwarfs, neutron stars, brown dwarfs, extrasolar planets/asteroids, AGN, FRBs, GRBs,
       SNe, ultra-diffuse galaxies and even planetary occulations. The related ULTRASPEC
       instrument now has a permanent home on the 2.4m Thai National Telescope (TNT),
       providing Sheffield and Warwick with 30 nights/year on the TNT in return for access to
       ULTRASPEC for the Thai astronomical community.
    f)   We have invested over £1M during this REF cycle for staff to join consortia, placing
         Gänsicke as a founding member of SDSS-V, and most recently Cegla joining HARPS3
         and TerraHunter.


                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.3 Strategic Investments in Condensed Matter
    a) Millburn House Magnetic Resonance Centre contains 12 magnets for solid-state NMR
       and DNP from 2.3T (100MHz) to 23.5T (1GHz), with a large array of probes for magic
       angle spinning (up to 111kHz), static NMR and DOR. Brown directs the UK National
       Research Facility (NRF) for High Field Solid State NMR, with an 850MHz system serving
       the physical and life science communities since 2010. The NRF provides high-quality
       intellectual and scientific support via the Facility Manager, Iuga, who has his own
       scientific activity. It runs 24/7 with 85% of instrument time allocated to its 50-75 regular
       users; it also trains ~20 PhD students p.a. The NRF has enabled 115 publications and
       over 500 conference presentation. Considerable impact [ICS-4] flows via insight from
       ssNMR of technological importance to industries such as pharmaceutical (AstraZeneca,
       GlaxoSmithKline), oil/fuel (Infineum, Sasol), and catalysis/materials (BP, Johnson
       Matthey). These companies access the NRF either via paid-for contract research or
       industry-supported PhD students. In 2020, the NRF was enhanced by the UK's first
       1GHz (23.5T) ssNMR spectrometer, funded by £8M of a £20M EPSRC investment in
       NMR equipment that Brown coordinated across UK institutions. Warwick has invested
       a further £1M to build the supporting infrastructure.
    b) XMaS: The UK Materials Science National Facility at the ESRF, co-directed by Hase
       (with Lucas, Liverpool), has provided free-at-the-point-of-use access to synchrotron
       radiation since 1997. XMaS provides over 3400 hours of beamtime p.a. to 110 UK and
       international users, with 40% being new users and 50% ECRs. Diverse scattering/
       spectroscopic experiments can be performed in a wide range of sample environments; an
       offline X-ray -source also enables use of these when the ESRF beam is unavailable. In
       2019, the ESRF Enhanced Brilliance Source upgrade necessitated significant engineering
       changes and a complete overhaul of XMaS (after 20 years’ continuous operation) with a
       capital injection of £2M. XMaS reopens in 2021 with enhanced operational capabilities,
       new detectors, and a refurbished diffractometer to exploit the extended X-ray energies (2-
       40keV), 75x increased brightness, and 10x smaller beamsize.
    c) Extensive local facilities for analytical science developed within Physics, in electron
       microscopy, X-ray diffraction, and spectroscopy, have been transformed into Research
       Technology Platforms (RTP) available across the University and externally (REF5a-4.3).
       Over £10M of capital investment since 2014 has upgraded equipment in the physics-
       based RTPs. Each RTP has an academic Director and a dedicated technical Facility
       Manager to ensure smooth running of the equipment, high-quality service and training for
       users, development of new techniques, and promotion of interdisciplinary research.
       Physics researchers have free-at-the-point-of-use access to the RTPs, to maximise
       equipment usage, with actual usage logged and charged to grants where possible or
       otherwise underwritten by the department; this is especially important to enable access
       for PhDs and ECRs without their own funds. External RTP use is enabled through
       simplified WSS contracts, with 34 different universities and 84 companies using £813k
       worth of facility time since 2014. A joint Physics-Chemistry facility for X-ray photoelectron
       spectroscopy (XPS) and ARPES operates in a similar manner.
    d) The Warwick Single Crystal Growth facility produces high-quality crystals of magnetic,
       superconducting and related material that provides samples to over 50 groups worldwide.
       Sustainability of the facility has been secured by over £1M of EPSRC investment, and by
       Warwick providing an indefinite post for Ciomaga-Hatnean. This has enabled major
       projects on Skyrmionics and Topological Insulators, amongst others, receiving £2.5M of
       external funding, leading to 124 publications, and over 4,000 citations since 2014.

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    e) We have invested £1.5M in multi-user facilities to set-up new appointees including: a
       laser lithography system for rapid device prototyping and material characterisation,
       creating for example ferroic devices (Alexe) and 2D lateral heterojunctions (Wilson,
       Broome); a flexible low temperature, tuneable laser facility for quantum state
       manipulation in 2D materials (Broome) and diamond NV centres (Green); microfluidics
       and optical microscopes to study cell motility for physics of life, biofilms and antimicrobial
       resistance programmes (Kantsler, Polin).
    f)   Alexe established a unique scanning probe microscope with a vector magnetic field,
         pulsed laser illumination, and variable temperature, via a 2015 EPSRC Strategic
         Equipment grant. Together with start-up funds for pulsed laser deposition, this has
         leveraged £3.2M of funded research on ferroic materials and devices, producing 46
         papers cited over 1,000 times.
    g) The Warwick Centre for Ultrafast Spectroscopy (WCUS) is a joint Physics/Chemistry
       femtosecond laser facility established in 2016, with an EPSRC Strategic Equipment grant
       (£620k) and matched investment (£510k). The 40fs laser is split into four beamlines to
       study molecules and materials across a broad spectrum (UV to THz) and in a variety of
       environments. Directors Lloyd-Hughes and Stavros (Chemistry) are supported by a
       dedicated facility manager to make this resource widely available. In 2019, 30 research
       groups used 3,400 facility hours, included 357 hours by external academics and 830
       hours by industrial partners (e.g. Lubrizol, Newport, Syngenta, DeBeers). We further
       invested in THz spectroscopy by appointing MacPherson and Milot, with additional
       spectroscopy equipment in their start-up packages. £1.25M of external grants have
       already been won for THz studies, including Milot’s New Investigator Award on metal
       halide perovskite devices, MacPherson’s investigation on cancer prevention/treatment
       with a THz skinometer, and Lloyd-Hughes investigating multiferroics. Recent science
       highlights include work on efficient THz modulators and real-time THz imaging, and the
       first studies of the ultrafast dynamics of 1D van der Waals heterostructures.
    h) Warwick is a leading UK centre for diamond research, exploiting diamond’s unique
       properties for industrial applications, quantum technology and, of course, jewellery. The
       DST-CDT brought together >20 partners from across universities and industry. Diamond
       research, investments in spectroscopy, and collaboration with companies, such as
       Element Six, GIA, De Beers, Hach and DSTL has led to impact in diamond sensors, on
       lab-grown jewellery [ICS-3], and automated gemstone verification [ICS-5]. Experiments
       on NV centres took us into quantum technology, theory of quantum measurement, and
       development of highly sensitive magnetometer. This area of has received £4.2M of
       research funding, plus £4.5M for the CDT.

 3.4 Strategic Computing Infrastructure
    a) HPC is used extensively for simulation and modelling across all our research areas –
       from materials, through fusion plasmas, to particle collisions and solar system formation.
       The Scientific Computing RTP, directed by Quigley, provides shared Tier-3 HPC across
       the University, including 11,000 cores for parallel processing, 10PB storage, and a Linux-
       based desktop/server infrastructure for research computing. The principal machine is
       refreshed/replaced on a two-year cycle, with annual investment of over £1M, which in
       2019 included a further £1.8M for a new energy-efficient machine room. Warwick is a
       leading partner of the HPC Midlands+ consortium that installed national Tier-2 HPC in
       Loughborough in 2016 and won a further £3M for the next machine, Sulis, installed in
       Warwick’s new machine room in 2020. To benefit from this hardware, two Research

                                                                                                Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Software Engineers have been established in the SC-RTP to aid users professionalise
       their approach to research computing.
    b) We lead development and support for a number of widely used codes, investing
       significant staff time: ONETEP (Hine) is a DFT code for electronic structure calculations;
       EPOCH (Arber) is widely used in plasma physics and has wide-reaching impact [ICS-1],
       a permanent position and promotion for its main author Bennett ensures sustainability.
       EPP staff (Marshall, Morgan, Richards and 3.5 PDRAs) develop: EvtGEN (b-physics
       generator), LAURA++ (Dalitz plot package), ToolDAQ (data acquisition/analysis for
       neutrino water-Cherenkov experiments), GEANT4 (particle interaction tracking through
       materials), and PANDORA (Marshall)which is becoming the code of choice for
       reconstructing particle tracks in neutrino detectors, esp. DUNE.
    c) The wide interdisciplinary computing expertise in Warwick led to HetSys-CDT that trains
       students from across physical sciences to model complex real-world systems across
       multiple scales, motivated by the industrial partners, e.g. nanoscale devices, new
       catalysts, superalloys, smart fluids, laser-plasma interactions.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Collaborations and partnerships
    a) In addition to the large EPP and astronomy consortia, we have over 600 active
       collaborations with academic institutes in all parts of the world and our researchers
       partner with more than 150 external companies/organisations. Collaborations have been
       built by individual contact, through joint projects and from institutional initiatives.
       Physics staff have 34 Visiting/Adjunct Professorships at prestigious institutions worldwide,
       associated with research collaborations, many of which have deepened through Study
       Leave visits, have led to joint publications and delivery of innovative teaching.
       We welcome incoming researchers, as short and long-term visitors. British Council
       schemes and Newton International Fellowships have enabled researchers from e.g. India,
       Brazil, Russia, Korea to visit. We regularly appoint, and review, Honorary/Visiting
       Professor/Researchers from academic and industrial collaborators (currently 84; 160 total
       since 2014), who contribute to our research, impact and teaching.
    b) Physics has benefitted from the strategic institutional Monash-Warwick Alliance (REF5a-
       2.12.1): creating the Southern Hemisphere node for GOTO, with £3M of UK STFC funds,
       and separately leveraging Australian Research Council funding for OzGrav. The
       complementarity between Warwick’s experimental EPP group and Monash theoreticians
       has enabled Monash to join the LHCb experiment, assisting Australia’s progress towards
       becoming a CERN member state. Our theoreticians are active within the EUTOPIA
       strategic alliance: Alexander combines with Ljubljana experimentalists on liquid crystals
       topological defects and Römer collaborates with Cergy-Paris on disordered systems.
    c) A&A use international observational facilities (§3.1) and lead consortia to develop new
       community facilities (§3.2b-e) and surveys (§3.2f). Their relationship with observatory
       staff at premier sites is key: working closely with the Instituto de Astrofísica de Canarias
       (IAC) we built SuperWASP, the Warwick 1m and GOTO (§3.2d) telescopes on La Palma;
       Gänsicke is on the Board of the Isaac Newton Group of Telescopes and Steeghs the
       International Scientific Committee for Canary Island Observatories. At Paranal, Warwick
       work with ESO to lead the NGTS consortium of six partners from the UK, Geneva and
       Berlin (§3.2b). Steeghs is on the Governing Council and Levan the Executive

                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Committee of ENGRAVE, a collaboration of over 250 astronomers using ESO facilities to
       research GW events. GOTO itself has nine partner institutions from the UK, Finland,
       Australia, and Thailand; close collaboration with LIGO/VIRGO allows us to receive real-
       time triggers and rapidly point GOTO at candidate GW events. Pollacco is Head of
       Science Management and Exoplanet Science Lead for PLATO (§3.2a), in which most
       Warwick exoplanet researchers are involved. Brogi is a member of the Italian GAPS
       consortium and associate of the Observatory of Turin. Multi-object spectroscopic
       experiments enable vast data sets to be recorded for eventual public release; Gänsicke
       is leading surveys in DESI, WEAVE, and SDSS-V, and Tremblay is part of 4MOST. As
       a founding member, Gänsicke directs the white dwarf science in SDSS-V.
    d) CFSA has a longstanding collaboration with the fusion plasma theory group at CCFE,
       where Dendy (CCFE/Warwick) coordinates fusion research activities for UK universities
       with national and European projects. Dendy also leads activities with the Japanese
       National Institute for Fusion Science, Korean National Fusion Research Institute, and the
       MPI for Plasma Physics. CFSA’s extensive participation in experimental fusion
       programmes includes JET/MAST at Culham, Euroatom and ITER.
       Radio astronomers from China, Russia and India have benefitted from networks led by
       Nakariakov: “Radiophysics of the Sun”, “Superflares on stars and the Sun”. British
       Council funding initiated institutional links with the Space Research Institute of the
       Russian Academy of Sciences, and the School of Space Research, Kyung Hee
       University, Korea. He is also a member of the International Consortium for the Continued
       Operation of the Nobeyama Radio Heliograph, an associate investigator of NASA-
       SDO/AIA, co-founder of the heliospheric working group in the Square Kilometre Array
       project, and Co-I of Proba-3/ASPIICS.
       Chapman is an associate investigator on ESA-Solar Orbiter/SWA. Armstrong,
       Broomhall, Chapman, Nakariakov and Verwichte participate in teams at the
       International Space Science institute in Bern. Verwichte also coordinates data-analysis
       for the UK consortium at the DKIST Solar Telescope, Hawaii. Hnat chaired the
       interdisciplinary EPSRC Network on “Emergence and Physics Far from Equilibrium”.
       Broomhall is in the TESS and Kepler Astroseismic Consortia.
    e) External collaborations in CMP are built around our unique materials analysis, modelling
       and synthesis capabilities. Extensive collaboration ensues from running the UK National
       Facilities for High Field ssNMR and XMaS, and local RTP facilities (§3.3). CMP staff
       perform measurements at 15 international facilities for synchrotron radiation, neutrons,
       muons, and high magnetic fields. The sample environment built for magnetic scattering
       by Duffy is available for all SPring8 users. Wilson contributed to creating Elettra’s
       nanoARPES capability and subsequently to establish a UK facility at Diamond. Hanna
       established a joint doctoral programme in materials physics with NTU, Singapore.
       Datta, Green, Newton and Morley have engaged with three of the four UK Quantum
       Technology Hubs, contributing on quantum measurements and diamond-based quantum
       technologies. Experimentalist and theoreticians combine their expertise on multi-
       institutional programmes, e.g. EPSRC Programme Grants on Crystallisation (Leeds led),
       Skyrmionics (Durham led) and Complex Nanostructures (Southampton led). CMP
       network through 7 EU COST actions, with Balakrishnan as vice-chair of three. Leadley
       was instrumental in setting up the SiNANO Institute (a Director until 2018) that united 18
       European institutes in microelectronics research.



                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    f)   EPP are highly visible from their leadership roles in existing and future experiments.
         Barker is PI for DUNE UK (budget $1.5B, UK £45M, Warwick £1M) and chairs the DUNE
         UK Institute Board; Marshall is WP lead for event reconstruction software.
         In LHCb, Gershon was Physics Coordinator and UK Spokesperson (2016-2020); group
         convenors include Kreps (Simulation), Blake (Rare Decays), Latham (Charmless B-
         Hadron Decays), Kenzie (Beauty to Open Charm), and Vesterinen (Semileptonic
         Physics & High-Level Trigger project leader). Gershon co-led the Heavy Flavour
         Averaging Group 2010-17.
         Murray was ATLAS Physics Coordinator and now convenes the Higgs & DiBoson
         searches group; Farrington was UK Physics Coordinator 2016-18 and co-convener of
         HSG4 2013-15, where she oversaw publication of Higgs decay to tau leptons; Facini
         convened ATLAS Exotics 2016-18 (600 members), Exotics Jet & Dark Matter (200
         members), founded the Cluster & Tracking in Dense Environments group and was Tile
         Calorimeter Coordinator; Becker has been Semiconductor Tracker Coordinator and
         convened working groups on several Higgs decay paths, now HSG4; Martin is Trigger
         Operation Coordinator.
         Ramachers was SuperNEMO Physics Coordinator until 2018. Boyd was Operations
         Manager for MICE. Richards is Convener of Software & DAQ working groups at ANNIE.
    g) In computing, Arber chairs the UK national Computational Collaborative Project (CCP) in
       Plasma Physics, the EPSRC High-End Consortium in plasma physics, co-directs the
       AWE-Warwick Centre for Computational Plasma Physics, and is on the DiRAC
       Management Board. Quigley chairs the HPC Midlands+ Strategic User Board and
       contributes to CCP5. Staunton chairs CCPmag for computational magnetism. Brown
       and Bartok support the multidisciplinary CCP-NC for NMR crystallography software.
       Hine is in CCP9, leads the ONETEP developers group for linear scaling DFT and the
       Car-Parrinello High-End Consortium for ab initio atomistic simulation.

 4.2 Impact
    a) Section 1.4 outlines our approach to developing impact. “Industry Days” showcase our
       expertise, highlight how we work with industry, and encourage industrial attendees to
       share their R&D challenges. Up to 700 have attended, 30% from industry, on topics
       such as Sensors, Sustainability, and Analytical Science. Their interdisciplinary nature
       has exposed companies working with a specific academic to other expertise within
       Warwick, e.g. Lubrizol expanded their engagement across the sciences and became
       headline sponsor for the 2019 British Science Festival. Cross-department industrial
       collaboration on conducting diamond based sensors for water quality monitoring
       resulted in a 2017 Royal Society Innovation Award to Newton and Macpherson
       (Chemistry). Providing easy and flexible access to our infrastructure and expertise,
       through various channels designed around industrial need, has directly led to the impact
       in four ICSs.
    b) Opportunities for exploitation identified in the STFC area include a way to magnify
       vibrations in images, based on Nakariakov’s solar plasma research, a predictive
       electoral voting programme arising from Harrison’s Monte Carlo simulations, and UV-
       sensors developed jointly between EPP & CMP leading to the spin-out UVDyne. STFC-
       IAA funds seeded repurposing the wide-area WASP telescopes for tracking space
       debris (Pollacco & Steeghs), which now has considerable commercial interest from
       DSTL and other satellite operators. Furthermore, this led to the STFC Global Network


                                                                                         Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         on Sustainability in Space (GNOSIS), coordinated by Pollacco, that brings scientists
         and industry together for discussion and seeding joint actions.
    c) Collaboration with equipment manufacturers enrich our research environment. Our
       experts can access the latest equipment and showcase its ultimate performance
       through high impact science. Examples include long-standing relationships with JOEL
       and Bruker, for electron microscopes, NMR and EPR; Newport Spectra Physics helped
       design and setup WCUS’s fast laser facility. Beanland’s electron microscopy
       technique development has further benefitted JOEL by expanding their instruments’
       capabilities.
    d) Warwick contributes to the development of major external science facilities, in the UK
       and overseas, to generate impact beyond the original field of research (§3.3). E.g.
       XMaS enriches research possibilities for industrial beamline users, and also holds nine
       commercial licenses to supply project-designed X-ray optics/instruments to
       synchrotrons worldwide.
    e) Collaboration on real world problems with commercial partners further enhances the
       research environment by inspiring researchers. Industry inspired projects support 27 of
       our current PhD students and have been crucial to sustaining our CDTs. These
       partnerships also provide a route for employment e.g. recent PhD/PDRAs joining Astra
       Zeneca, De Beers, Infineum, Element Six, Rolls Royce and a range of SMEs; six have
       taken advantage of the KTP scheme to work across companies and university.
    f)   Our spin-outs (4), patent applications (43), and IP licensing agreements (10) all point to
         a healthy future impact pipeline. A flavour of these and examples of potential impact
         still at the pre-commercial stage follow:
           Wilson discovered graphene oxide makes an excellent support grid for TEM
               imaging. In 2019 alone, over 10,000 grids were made in Warwick and sold to an
               SME for distribution to end-users. Impact comes from employment of two people in
               the distributer, the improved measurements these end-users can make, the
               academic and commercial R&D it enables, and products that follow in fields from
               cancer research to environmental analysis.
           Morley developed quantum technology based on the spin of nitrogen vacancies in
               diamond to produce a highly sensitive magnetometer for medical and surveying
               applications.
           Hanna’s ssNMR has contributed significantly to Johnson Matthey’s battery
               materials and nanoparticle catalysis technologies, implemented in automotive/
               marine engine emissions abatement and Fischer-Tropsch processes.
           Kantsler’s microfluidics research on sperm cell motility has potential applications in
               livestock breeding. Through ICURe (REF5a-2.8) commercialisation opportunities
               were explored; this led to creation of CytoSwim, which now employs three people
               and is starting clinical trials in an incubator unit, with Innovate support.
           Chapman’s expertise in analysing time-series, developed for space plasmas, has
               been applied to risk evaluation for extreme events, heat waves and climate change.
               Arber’s plasma code is being developed for a European space weather forecast
               service. Aspects of plasma software (Arber, Gericke) are of particular interest to
               UK and US military.
           Expertise in XRD and corrosion science, together with XMaS and XRD-RTP
               facilities, contributed to cultural heritage investigation of artefacts from Henry VIII’s
               Mary Rose warship, giving insight into Tudor brass production.


                                                                                                 Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           Physics-based RTPs enabled 84 companies, from Aston Martin to Xerion
            Healthcare and including many SMEs, to increase their competitive advantage. For
            instance, access to skills and technology in the EM-RTP enabled Prima Dental,
            now the world’s largest carbide bur manufacturer, to expand into design and
            manufacture of dental milling tools.
           The CIU has directly supported over 20 companies, with significant impacts in 15
            [ICS-6].
           Through her THz imaging, MacPherson is collaborating with a suncream
            manufacturer to improve skin protection and developing new portable
            instrumentation for diagnosing and treating skin cancer with UHCW NHS Trust.

 4.3 Public Engagement
     Our extensive outreach and public engagement programme involves all groups of
     staff/students and aims to:
       improve scientific awareness amongst the public, in time impacting on society/policy;
       widely disseminate an appreciation of our research;
       excite young people by science, especially under-represented groups; encourage
          further study at school/university;
       support teachers to deliver engaging science lessons.
     Physics has a full-time outreach post, originally established with The Ogden Trust. Our
     regular activities include: school visits with demonstration lectures, inviting schools on to
     campus (4,000 pupils); annual events – Primary Science Fair; School Physicist of the
     Year; Science Gala (800 guests, 2019); participation in national events like Big Bang and
     science festivals; residential workshops for under-privileged students, with Sutton and
     Smallpeice Trusts. While interaction with pupils is important, longer term impact comes
     from supporting, training and enthusing teachers. Our activities focus especially in local
     WP primary and secondary schools, often without physics-trained staff, by e.g. training 20
     local science co-ordinators, raising enthusiasm at a struggling primary school, providing a
     framework for primary science projects.
     Highlight activities:
         XMaS Scientist Experience – annually since 2015, 20 sixth-form girls visit ESRF for
            4 days. Impact is made wider than the competitively selected group by pre-trip
            activities in school, post-trip presentations, involvement of participants in other
            events, and cohort follow-up. The model has been replicated by Lund University.
         Warwick Christmas Lectures – a Physics initiative, now an annual event across
            disciplines; 1,500 seat venue sold out twice in 2017; Christmas Lectures in 2020
            were recorded as accessible videos (>2,400 views on YouTube).
         Live Q&A on space recorded in Leicester Prison for broadcast on National Prison
            Radio.
         Inception and delivery of Brownie/Guide Physicist Badge – local & national roll-out.
         British Science Festival 2019 hosted by Warwick – 17,000 visitors, prominent public
            talks from Physics staff, live Science of Music event in Coventry city centre, live
            appearance on BBC Sky at Night.
         Local pub-based Pint of Science – regular contributions particularly from
            ECRs/PhDs.
         International Masterclasses for Particle Physics – in the framework of CERN’s
            International Particle Physics Outreach Group, connecting pupils across 60
            countries every March.

                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           Online Atlas of Astronomy Groups, >12,000 views.
           Mobile planetarium – reaching >3,000 people in two years, Space Camp
            programme shortlisted for a Times Education Award in 2017.
           A&A led workshops – introducing A-level students to supernova and GWs, through
            problem solving and programming.
           Physics journal club – set up during Covid-19 lockdown to support A-level and
            GCSE students with activities, used by local (and even international) schools to
            enhance their online lessons.
           Physics researchers exhibited at the Royal Society Summer exhibition (2016:
            Antimatter matters; Diamond: more than just a gemstone) and London Science
            Museum (2015: Diamonds are for Sensing).
           Edwards is Deputy Director of Warwick’s recently established Institute for
            Engagement (REF5a-4.3.4).

 4.4 Indicators of wider influence and recognition
    a) 39 staff have held 44 distinguished fellowships since 2104 (Table 2.1).
    b) Prizes won include: (*PDRA)
        Alexander          British Liquid Crystal Society, Young Scientist 2014
   T2K (Barker, Boyd)      Breakthrough Prize for Fundamental Physics 2016
          Blake            IOP HEPP Group prize 2015
        Chapman            RAS James Dungey Lectureship 2014; AGU Ed Lorenz Lectureship 2020
          Dixon            Roy Sharpe Prize, British Institute of NDT 2017
 Facini, Martin*, Pianori* ATLAS Outstanding Achievement Awards 2015
          Levan            Blavatnik Young Scientist Awards Finalist for Physical Sciences 2018
         Lupton*           LHCb Early Career Scientist Award 2020
          Marsh            RAS Herschel Medal 2018
          Morley           IOP/RSC magnetic resonance group prize 2014
       Nakariakov          IOP Payne Gaposchkin Silver Award 2015
         Newton            Royal Society Innovation Award 2017
          Wilson           Royal Microscopy Society, Mid-Career Scientific Achievement 2020
         Woodruff          IUVSTA Science Prize, 2019
        IOPP has awarded the “PPCF Dendy Europe-Asia Pacific Award for Outstanding
        Research Collaboration in Plasma Physics” in honour of Richard Dendy since 2018.
    c) 15 staff act as journal editors, 4 as Editors-in-Chief. All staff contribute to peer review,
       many for over ten journals. d’Ambrumenil and Staunton are APS Outstanding
       Referees. Veras moderates all 2,500 p.a. exoplanet manuscripts submitted to arXiv.
    d) 19 staff are members of EPSRC’s Peer Review College, Pollacco on EPSRC
       Engineering SAT; 18 review for STFC; 10 for The Royal Society, Woodruff deputy chair of
       URF panel; and 8 for ERC. Reviews have been performed for BBSRC, MRC,
       Leverhulme and Nuffield foundations, for national research agencies of 18 countries and
       Horizon 2020, where Staunton chaired ERC Panel PE3 and Steeghs is vice-chair of the
       MCSF Physics Panel. Sloan contributed to a German roadmap on Large-scale Research
       Infrastructure Projects. Chapman reviewed Norwegian Centres of Excellence.
       27 staff partake in time allocation panels for international telescopes (HST, WHT, K2)
       beamlines (ISIS, ESRF, Diamond) and computing facilities (ARCHER).




                                                                                                Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         11 staff are members of UKRI advisory committees: STFC – Pollacco (Science Board),
         Ramachers, Steeghs, Thomas (Council); Pollacco chaired STFC reviews of Nuclear
         Physics and of Astrophysics, Barker for Particle Physics; Barker, Marsh, Ramachers,
         Steeghs are on STFC oversight committees for Neutron EDM, MOONS spectrograph
         (chair), ISOL-SRS, A-LIGO+, respectively. Barker is also on the STFC Education,
         Training and Careers Committee. Quigley served on EPSRC’s working group for future
         capital investments in Tier-1&2 HPC, and Arber on EPSRCs’ Review of Nuclear Fusion.
         Dendy serves the REF2021 Physics Panel, as in REF2014. He also chairs the EPS-APS
         Landau-Spitzer Prize selection.
    e) Membership of, and active participation in, learned societies is encouraged. Dendy is
       Chair of EPS Plasma Physics Division; Wilson a member of the Royal Microscopy
       Society Council; Broomhall the RAS UK Solar Physics Council; Stanway the IOP
       Awards Committee; Chapman the EGU Alfven Medal Committee; Veras elected to the
       International Astronomical Union Steering Committee. 9 staff serve on IOP subject group
       committees. Nakariakov – Scientific Committee on Solar Terrestrial Physics, an
       interdisciplinary body of the International Council for Science.
    f)   Many staff serve on international facility User Groups, e.g. Hase was Chair of the
         Diamond Light Source User Committee (2014-17), he now chairs the Science Advisory
         Committee and sits on the Board of Governors.
         International advisors include: Alexe – Centre for Innovation, Martin Luther University
         (Halle); Arber – Rosseland Centre for Solar Physics (Oslo); Barker – ATLAS Phase 2
         Upgrade Scrutiny Group; Brown – French High Field NMR network; Hase – UAE
         Synchrotron; Morley – Hitachi, Cambridge; Murray, CepC (Beijing); Staunton – Hero-m,
         KTH (Stockholm); Turner – HKBU, Computational Research Centre (Beijing).
         Morley coordinated a written submission to the House of Commons Science &
         Technology Select Committee Quantum Technologies Inquiry on behalf of the UK
         Diamond Quantum Technology community and advised the Government Office for
         Science on the same topic. Pollacco is a member of the UK Space Agency Science
         Policy Advisory Committee. Dendy was a government appointed member of the MOD
         Nuclear Research Advisory Council (to 2015) and the Marshall Aid Commemoration
         Commission (to 2016).
    g) Over 800 invited talks, keynotes and plenaries have been given by staff, with a further
       2,800 presentations contributed by PDRAs and PhDs. 66 events have been hosted in
       Warwick’s award-winning conference facilities. Staff have chaired 35 conferences or
       symposia at major external meetings, e.g. EMRS, APS March Meeting, and been on the
       scientific organising committee of another 33.
    h) Postgraduate training encompasses traditional (lectures, seminars) and applied
       (experimental, computational) activities. Staff regularly lecture and help organise
       international graduate summer schools, e.g. the annual Warwick Week benefits UK
       particle physics PhDs. From 2014 to 2018, Warwick led the national HPC Short Courses
       consortium of 12 universities to provide advanced computing training.
    i)   Our training provided through the nine CDTs described in §2.2c has benefited students in
         16 UK universities, 17 international institutes and over 100 industrial partners.




                                                                                           Page 26
