Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Glasgow Caledonian University

 Unit of Assessment:
 13: Architecture, Built Environment and Planning

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and structure

 The Unit’s strategic alignment is within one of three societal challenges envisaged by GCU
 Research Strategy 2020 and 2030: “Sustainable Environments.” It is further framed by the UN
 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Since 2014, the research structure of the Unit has
 evolved from subject specific research groups and a School-wide single Research Institute into
 external-facing Research Centres [Research Centre for Built Environment Asset Management
 (BEAM) https://www.gcu.ac.uk/assetmanagement/ and the Centre for Climate Justice (CCJ)
 https://www.gcu.ac.uk/climatejustice/]. The UoA’s vision is aligned with the University mission
 “for the common good” to conduct research that delivers significant practical benefits and
 impact for society (BEAM Centre - resource utilisation in the creation, maintenance and
 renewal of built assets, by investigating the social, environmental and economic
 interdependencies of sustainable built environments; and CCJ - health, wellbeing and
 sustainability in the face of climate change and its in/justice dimensions). The aim is to
 provide a coordinating function that allows the tackling of cross-disciplinary research (societal)
 challenges. The Research Centres are subject to a University-wide rigorous approval and re-
 validation process.

 Supported by funding from industry and philanthropic gifts, the BEAM Centre was created in
 2015 to explore the social, environmental and economic interdependencies of sustainable built
 environments in the context of global climate change and natural resource utilisation.
 Specifically, BEAM research is aligned with SDGs #6 - Clean Water; #7 - Affordable Clean
 Energy; #8 - Decent Work & Economic Growth (especially labour rights and safe working
 environments); #9 - Innovation and Infrastructure (built infrastructure); #11 - Sustainable
 Cities & Communities (smart cities, urban heat island, urban sustainability); #12 - Responsible
 Consumption & Production (sustainable use of natural resources used in construction); and
 #14, #15 - Life below water and life on land (environmental impact of construction and built
 environment).

 The Centre for Climate Justice (CCJ) emerged from a partnership with the former President of
 Ireland Mary Robinson and the Mary Robinson Foundation for Climate Justice (MRFCJ) to
 address a knowledge gap between climate science and social justice. CCJ is committed to
 quality action research that addresses climate change within the overarching context of the
 SDGs of ‘leaving no one behind’ with special focus on SDGs #1 (no poverty), #2 (zero hunger),
 #5 (gender equality), #7 (clean energy) and #13 (climate action).

 The Research Centre structure is complemented by four peer-supported subject specific
 Research Groups that straddle the Research Centres. These are staff-proposed, organic and
 time-limited entities of active staff and associated postgraduate research students, that
 provide the operational environment for specific research projects. These developments
 follow the implementation of the GCU 2020 Research Strategy The four groups are: Nature-
 based Solutions (NbS) and eco-engineering; Water Research; Sustainable Materials and
 Structures; Construction. External funding and industry engagement are key features of all
 four groups.

    •   The NbS group investigates novel, sustainable, and ecologically sound solutions to
        global environmental hazards and impacts. Its multidisciplinary team brings together
        soil and plant science, applied ecology, hydrology, geographic information systems,
        civil engineering, environmental management, ecosystem services, and social science

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        (community and stakeholder engagement and asset management) to investigate the
        role of NbS in hydro-meteorological de-risking.
    •   The Water Research group employs multidisciplinary approaches combining water
        quality and treatment, environmental technology and management, biology and eco-
        toxicity, analytical chemistry and community and stakeholder engagement to research
        water-environment nexus.
    •   The Sustainable Materials and Structures group covers two areas - construction
        materials technology (materials durability, prediction of degradation during service life
        and impact on hygrothermal performance in constructions, environmental impact of
        durable materials including contribution of re-used and waste materials to more
        sustainable constructions) and design, analysis and modelling of concrete, timber and
        steel structures (dynamic performance of structures and structural performance of
        materials under extreme environmental conditions).
    •   The Construction Research group specialises in research focused on health, safety
        and wellbeing; contracts and dispute resolution; and productivity.


 Research and Impact strategy

 At the REF2014 submission, we identified four critical drivers for our future research. These
 are now well integrated into our research environment:

    •   Developing and integrating streamlined construction processes relevant to dynamic
        construction supply chains - with the establishment of the BEAM Centre, we have
        enhanced our research, public and industry engagement in Construction Project Risk and
        Value Management. These are highlighted in Section 4 and in our impact case study on
        ‘Improving ‘Safety in Design’ Practices in the Construction Industry’.
    •   Driving forward sustainable built environments in relation to their physical environmental
        dynamism (bearing in mind climate change imperatives, and to optimise the use of
        scarce or dwindling resources) - the Unit in its entirety is now fully aligned with the
        societal challenge of ‘Sustainable environment’ with both our Research Centres engaging
        in research and advocacy work on the technical and societal aspects of sustainability
        (such as our impact case study on renewable energy from wastewater).
    •   Focusing on zero and low carbon buildings and the impacts on humans through the work
        of the RICH (Research on Indoor Climate and Health) Centre - the RICH Centre itself is
        now fully absorbed into the BEAM Research Centre and we have specifically expanded
        our capacity and impact on societal consequences of low/zero carbon buildings, in
        particular their unintended consequences (as evidenced by our impact case study on fuel
        poverty and energy policy).
    •   Encouraging curiosity-driven research, providing our researchers with the freedom to
        explore ideas within the strategic priority and emerging areas - the creation of peer-
        supported subject-specific Research Groups, with input from our Research Centre
        Advisory Boards have created pathways to pursue a wide array of primary research and
        to explore their societal implications (as evidenced in Section 4).

 Responding explicitly to the societal challenge of ‘Sustainable Environments’, the UoA’s
 research strategy aims to achieve four goals:

    1. An externally funded research base in the area of safe, healthy and sustainable
       environments (see Section 3)
    2. Build research capacity via early career researcher opportunities, post-doctoral
       fellowships and internships through external funding (including workshops, PDRA
       opportunities in career development including GCU Crucible Programme, co-hosting
       of visiting scholars, etc. - see Section 2)
    3. Roll out of Continuing Professional Development (CPD) and research-based
       postgraduate programme provision in sustainable environment and climate change at
       GCU campuses, through Transnational Education Partnerships and online (See

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Section 3); expand and build upon the established Knowledge Transfer Partnerships in
       the areas of societal, environmental and process management consequences of built
       environment (See Section 4)
    4. Public engagement, advocacy and dissemination in themes associated with
       ‘sustainable environments’, including construction safety, building energy
       performance, environmental sciences, climate justice and stakeholder engagement
       (See Section 4).

 Our approach to impact builds on the expertise of a range of staff submitted for REF2014 in
 UoA 16 at its core (in the areas of building performance, health and safety in construction,
 waste management and sustainability assessment), but has evolved to focus on the SDGs in
 light of the new research talent available for REF 2021 (including built asset management,
 fuel poverty, nature-based solutions, climate justice and renewable heat). Our industry facing
 remit facilitates impact through capacity building and innovation events, knowledge transfer
 activities and policy engagement and advocacy. The Unit benefits from Knowledge Exchange
 Officers in Research and Innovation Office (RIO) to support the planning and management of its
 impact as well as from an Impact and Knowledge Exchange Officer appointed to the School in
 2017. They have provided significant guidance to researchers about approaching stakeholders
 for planning, collecting and curating evidence of impact.

 Industry engagement and capacity building with external agencies including the Health and
 Safety Executive (HSE) and the Chartered Institution of Occupational Safety and Health
 (IOSH) is exemplified by the Unit’s Impact Case Study on “reducing construction accidents:
 saving lives” that provided a gateway process and digital tools to reduce occupational safety
 and health in construction projects. An exemplar of knowledge transfer is provided by the
 Unit’s impact case study on ‘renewable energy from waste water’ that turned an
 environmental problem into a renewable resource for the Strathclyde Passenger Transport
 (SPT) in Glasgow. Policy-engagement and advocacy is exemplified by the impact case study
 on ‘fuel poverty and energy policy’ that led to the inclusion of financial ‘uplift’ for rural and
 island households in Section 3(6) of the Scottish Government’s Fuel Poverty (Targets,
 Definition and Strategy) (Scotland) Act 2019.

 Furthermore, the Unit envisages enhanced impact through an open and sharing environment.
 Going beyond the REF requirements of open access, we utilise the external-facing portals of
 our two Research Centres as repositories (such as
 https://www.gcu.ac.uk/climatejustice/research/ and
 https://www.gcu.ac.uk/assetmanagement/researchrepository/) of research that not only
 disseminate research findings but also act as a testament to the societal benefit of our work,
 reinforcing the University’s ethos of ‘common good.’

 The combined effect of our research and impact strategy is seen in the following summary
 changes:

    •   We have increased the number of staff with significant responsibility for research from
        21.6 FTE in REF2014 to 24.8 FTE (approx. 15% uplift) whilst the overall staff strength
        has remained the same (63 in both years), yet we have secured in excess of £3.7M
        funding
    •   Our research outputs have stronger focus on quality journal publications (75% in REF
        2014 vs 100% in REF21)
    •   Widening of our research impact on practice, policy and technology (as evidenced by
        our impact case studies)
    •   Growth in the total number of PGR students (63 in 2013/14 vs 77 in 2019/20)
    •   Research doctoral degree completions have shown an annualised increase of 13%
        within the REF period, with a total completion during the current period of 52.86 FTE
        allocated to UoA 13, as opposed to 28 during the previous REF period.



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Future aims and goals

 Going forward, and in alignment with the GCU Research Strategy 2030, we will focus our
 research, knowledge-transfer and impact activities on ‘social innovation’ as it relates to the
 UN SDG’s. The strategy focusses on increasing the income from large grants and further
 expansion of interdisciplinary collaboration between research groups and units across the
 University whilst engaging directly with the communities around us both locally and overseas.
 The strategy is also informed by the Muscatelli Report, which was commissioned by the Scottish
 Government to describe the economic impact of the Scottish higher education institutions, and to
 identify the way forward to maximise this contribution particularly in light of post-COVID19
 challenges.

 Social innovation places beneficiaries and end-users in the conceptual stage of the research
 process. As applied to the Unit’s research activities, this would mean the translation of our
 research into new products, services and policy advocacy to meet the social needs
 associated with ‘sustainable built environments.’ We will specifically focus on public sector
 innovation, and public service provision and other redistributive measures. We expect future
 developments to focus on three areas: urban climate mitigation and sustainable development
 (in partnership with Clyde Rebuilt / Glasgow City Region to influence climate change
 mitigation at local and regional levels using regeneration and nature-based approaches to
 mitigate hydro-meteorological change); wellbeing in construction workplace (strategic
 partnership with Health and Safety Executive (HSE) to aid public sector innovation and best
 practice guidance); health asset revitalisation (strategic partnership with Health Facilities
 Scotland, NHS Greater Glasgow & Clyde Heath Board to enhance asset value maximisation
 and sustainability). It would also include the ‘process’ dimension of social innovation in terms
 of governance, empowerment and capacity building dynamics related to nature-based
 solutions, climate justice and fuel poverty reduction in the built environment.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy

 The UoA’s staffing strategy aims to enhance research outputs, income generation in
 research, contract research and CPD activities. The support and development activities aim
 to build capacity to enhance external collaborations, and to better capture impact on industry
 and policy making in sustainable built environment. Such an approach has resulted in greater
 emphasis on research leadership, as evidenced by the numbers of Professors (six in 2014 to
 ten now) and Research Fellows (one in 2014 to five now). This was enabled by Research
 Excellence Grant as well as external funding from Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions and
 H2020 projects. These developments reflect our growth in new areas, especially climate
 justice (SDG #5); geotechnical / structural engineering, GIS applications and nature-based
 solutions (#11 and 15) and water research (#6 and 14). Furthermore, the Research Centres
 and Groups are supported by a Research Administrator with an Impact Officer assigned to
 the School.


 Staff development

 The UoA fully endorses and utilises ‘The Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers’ and gives due recognition to the importance of recruiting, selecting and
 retaining researchers with the highest potential to achieve excellence in research. In doing so,
 researchers are openly recognised and valued as an essential part of the human resource
 pool and vital components in achieving the University’s overall strategy for development and
 delivery of world-class research.

 Most of the Unit’s research active staff are involved in teaching and research, with only a
 minority of staff being research-only. All our researchers are valued for their contribution to

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our research activities, and are supported in their efforts to be flexible and adaptable in what
 is an increasingly global, diverse, and mobile research environment. Their personal and
 career development, and lifelong learning, is recognised and promoted at all stages of their
 career. Individual researchers take, and share, responsibility for being pro-active in
 engagement within their life-long learning, career, and personal development. Additionally,
 staff development aims to enhance staff understanding of technical or research process areas
 that will strengthen the Unit’s capability, particularly as it moves into new areas e.g. data
 science, unconscious bias training and culture training to enhance international collaborations.
 Another key skill development of focus is science communication, facilitated by the GCU Digital
 Communications and Public Engagement team to foster research dissemination to a wider
 audience. The Unit sees this as a key enabler to achieve impact from staff research (some
 examples of the outcome of this approach can be seen in Section 4, ‘Public engagement’ sub-
 section).

 Researchers submitting work for external consumption engage in our (School) peer review
 process, which seeks to aid them in ensuring their work is of high standard. The peer review
 process is aimed at projects over £50,000 in value, or those where GCU takes a lead role
 within a consortium, and is enhanced by internal review and support. The Peer Review
 College is a virtual group of experienced researchers and project leaders, who are selected
 based on their personal and professional experience to provide an internal review of
 proposals. The peer review process is conducted as an ongoing support mechanism, where
 researchers are encouraged to involve peer review as early as possible in the proposal
 development, rather than a gate keeping scrutiny at point of submission. The School’s
 Research Management Group, which is made up of the Associate Dean Research (ADR),
 three Centre Directors, Senior PGR Tutor, Impact Officer and Senior Research Administrator,
 overseas the peer review process and formally records peer review outcomes.

 In terms of career development support, ECR’s are supported through Research Groups
 (support and mentoring by established staff) and a School-wide ECR Group; their Head of
 Department will actively seek appropriate relief from normal duties to allow the ECR to focus
 on their research development and outputs.

 Additional support mechanisms available to ECRs in the Unit includes the GCU Crucible
 programme, a leadership and development programme for early career researchers. Over
 May/June 2019, one of the BEAM’s ECRs attended four Crucible sessions with other ECRs
 from across GCU, culminating in a visit to the Scottish Parliament to meet with MSPs and
 parliamentary researchers. The Crucible enabled the ECR to situate their own research in a
 wider societal context and highlight ways to communicate research beyond academia through
 media, public engagement and collaboration with policy makers. This further enables the
 build-up of contacts and tools into the early stages of research and public engagement work
 thus it had an immediate enhancing effect on researcher development. Additionally, the
 BEAM Centre supported the participation of one ECR in the Advance HE Aurora programme,
 a nationwide programme for improving leadership opportunities for female academics from
 October 2019 to March 2020. The programme provided tools (including the REAL Toolkit) to
 help develop key and core skills to consider where change could be enacted and advocated
 within the structures of our own institutions.


 Support, training and supervision of PGR students

 Whilst the University actively enhances support for the PGR student community via the
 institution-wide Graduate School, PGR students are embedded in their relevant Research
 Groups as well as having ample opportunity for cross-discipline discourse via the annual
 student-led RiSE (postgraduate Research in Sustainable Environments conference) with
 financial and administrative support by the School, and co-location in a mixed-discipline office
 environment. This provides a safe and welcoming environment for the School’s PGR students


                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to practice presentation skills in a professional context, to learn about their peers’ work and
 form a closer-knit student community.

 PGR research tutors work with all supervisory teams to plan and deliver research training
 programmes aligned with the Vitae Researcher Development Framework and to ensure that
 that all PhD students are active members of their Research Group and also satisfactorily
 complete a transferable (research) skills programme prior to completion.

 During the current REF period a total of 52.86 FTE research doctoral degrees were awarded.
 81% of the completions were male and 19% female while 50% of the graduates came from
 overseas. The UoA currently has 77 students registered (47 male, 30 female; 30 Home/EU,
 47 overseas; 48 Full Time and 29 Part-Time). This reflects a growth in the number of awarded
 research doctoral degrees by 89% (52.86 against 28 FTE).

 In line with the School policy, each PhD student within the Unit is supported by a nominal
 budget of £1800 over their course of study to underpin their project and development; the
 students, together with their supervisors, agree on the most beneficial use of this budget, for
 example whether to support laboratory consumables, specialist IT equipment or generic skills
 development and attendance at conferences. In recognition of the financial and environmental
 cost involved in attending international conferences, the School has changed in 2017 its
 previous practice of offering the students participation in at least 2 research poster colloquia
 over their 3 year PhD tenure, to the student led organisation of a postgraduate research
 conference, where the students can practice conference presentations in a supportive and
 peer environment, and showcase their research work to the wider School research
 community. Each student benefits from presentation feedback and the opportunity to engage
 with other research students from different discipline areas within the School.

 In response to PhD student feedback on office space (closer proximity to relevant labs,
 supervisors and Research Groups), the School is in the process of co-locating PGR students
 in close proximity to the Research Centres. The longer term plan includes the establishment
 of a central research hub on the 5th floor of the George Moore building, whilst allowing for
 specific needs of some research students for extended opening hours (e.g. for complex
 computer processing work) to be located elsewhere with extended office hours.

 Training and development of PhD students is facilitated by a learning development plan
 developed by students themselves, with input from their supervisors. This is a combination of
 courses offered by the Graduate School, including graduate teaching roles as required.
 Students receive feedback from academics, construct a reflective log so that their personal
 development can be self-evaluated, and provide feedback on the students’ progress. The
 Graduate School plays a significant role in the general developmental needs for research
 students by providing a developmental research training framework. The topics covered
 include research skills, methodologies and techniques, research management and
 information collation, research ethics, language skills and academic writing, networking, team
 working and career management.

 Additionally, several networking and ideas development initiatives targeted at PhD students
 are conducted by the Unit. For example, PhD students associated with the CCJ led the
 organization of seven public seminars between March 2016 and March 2019 on energy and
 food security, climate migration, vulnerability and adaptation, human right to a decent quality
 of life, green infrastructure and just transition. While contributing to the public debate and the
 identification of knowledge gaps, these series also improved the learning experience of the
 Unit’s PhD students. The CCJ also organises a reading group during term time with Masters,
 PhD students and other interested students on climate justice related topics and offers
 constructive feedback on discussion points and ideas. This initiative has been hugely popular
 with students and enhanced their learning experience.



                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality and diversity

 Diversity and equality are promoted in all aspects of the recruitment and career management
 of all of our researchers. Our regular and collegiate progress reviews strengthen the
 attractiveness and sustainability of research within UoA13. The University’s Equality and
 Diversity and Dignity at Work policies and practices are deployed across all aspects of the
 recruitment, career management and exit of all of our researchers. The policies ensure that
 each person is treated equitably and with respect and that decisions made are transparent
 and sound. All staff subscribe to these policies and undergo engagement and training to
 ensure that individual and collective approaches to such matters are robust. Such actions are
 coordinated by the local champion (UoA13 Champion Klemm, Postgraduate Research Tutor
 and Equality & Diversity Champion) who is the main point of contact for postgraduate
 students in relation to any issues or concerns related to equality and diversity. Specifically, the
 role aims to listen to Postgraduate Research students who feel that they are not being treated
 with equality, dignity and respect, independent of the University’s formal procedures in an
 impartial, non-judgmental and confidential manner, as well as to provide information on the
 University’s policies and procedures and to signpost to further information and refer on to
 appropriate resources to gain help and advice.

 The University recognises the importance of maintaining a balance between different academic
 activities, and this is supported by policies covering flexible working, workload management,
 sabbaticals, and a Performance and Development Annual Review (PDAR) Scheme in which
 time allowances are given to engage with research work based on pre-agreed deliverables and
 line management support. During the COVID-19 pandemic in particular, the University has
 taken a ‘whole-life approach’ to flexible working, recognising that some staff have additional
 caring responsibilities and have been temporarily unable to meet teaching and research
 responsibilities. In response, workloads have been rebalanced leading to some staff having
 reduced work hours with no loss of salary. Additionally, the parent School of the UoA has
 adopted a Research Student Stipends policy during Pregnancy/Parental/Adoption Leave.
 The Unit is part of the first department in GCU to receive an Athena SWAN Bronze award (2018)
 where key priorities included: focus on female staff recruitment, support for career development
 and promotion of female staff and marketing and recruitment to attract more female PGR
 students. This has contributed to an increase in female staff returning in REF and female
 professors in the Unit, and a higher success rate of women in promotions (due to the small size
 of the Unit and data protection, it is not possible to provide exact percentages). We have
 submitted an Athena SWAN Silver Award application in November 2020.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income

 During the REF assessment period the Unit secured £3.7 million in research income, which
 represents a 43% increase over the REF 2014 period. Given the increased length of eligible
 time (seven years against six years for REF2014), the pro-rated income for 6 years would still
 represent a 23% increase over the previous period (£3.17 million against £2.58 million in
 REF2014). A majority of these funds were obtained from EU Govt (£1.49M) and UK Govt
 (£955k) with significant contribution from industry (£927k) and charitable sector (£232k). In
 terms of knowledge transfer (contract research and CPD events) the Unit secured £739k from
 clients ranging from Glasgow Clyde Valley Green Network Partnership, English Heritage
 (Historic England), Knauf, Scottish Fire and Rescue Service and Local Authorities.
 Furthermore, GCU coordinates a EUR 7 million Erasmus+ project (over EUR 1.3 million to
 GCU) as part of research-based provision of postgraduate education (e.g. Master of Urban
 Climate and Sustainability https://murcs.eu/) to produce high calibre graduates with skills and
 knowledge to understand, assess and manage climate resilience in cities.

 Major projects by the Construction Research Group include Hare who was PI on an
 international team of researchers, including RMIT (Melbourne), leading a prestigious

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 £102,800 grant from the Institution of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH), the world’s
 largest professional organisation for OSH practitioners. The project delivered an innovative
 system for educating architects and other designers to help them improve H&S for
 construction workers as well as the occupiers and users of buildings. This important work is
 integral to the School’s research objectives of creating a positive impact to improve
 sustainability, and also align well with the IOSH commitment to “creating a world of work
 which is safe, healthy and sustainable.” This has led to a CDM app and several international
 organisations adopting the app per Impact Case Study. Similarly, Hare was awarded
 £187,000 from Berkeley Group Innovation Fund for the development of a Worker
 Engagement Maturity Model for H&S, leading to a digital app and guidance on how to
 improve worker engagement practices (currently in early stages of roll-out for a future Impact
 Case Study). Additionally, Hare undertook a scoping study for Zero Waste Scotland to update
 the true cost estimate of waste in a typical ‘mixed-waste’ construction skip. The scoping study
 delivered options for methods to collect and calculate the cost of waste items found in skips
 on various sites across Scotland. The research funding to the Construction Group led to five
 outputs submitted by Cameron, Hare and Lawani.

 The Water Research Group was awarded over €4M in funding from Scottish and European
 sources. Escudero, Helwig, Hunter, Teedon, Pahl were awarded an INTERREG NWE project
 to collaborate with 13 EU partners on a study to raise awareness of the presence of
 pharmaceutical residues in wastewater and explore new methods of reducing them (noPILLS
 - £1,783,461.00). Additionally, Escudero and colleagues were awarded PHARMAD: Removal
 of pharmaceutical micro-pollutants from wastewater by anaerobic digestion and its effect on
 nitrogen recovery from digestate by microalgae. This MSCA IF action (£136,781) addressed
 the emerging threat of pharmaceutical residues in water bodies by application of a
 combination of existing and novel techniques for their removal in urban wastewaters. More
 specifically, the efficacy of anaerobic digestion and microalgae technology for the removal of
 these pharmaceutical residues were investigated. As an outcome of this research, an
 innovative system was developed to make use of the microalgae Chlamydomonas acidophila
 in treating wastewater, which contributed considerably to the success of a further Interreg
 NWE grant application (Phos4You; 2016 - 2021; 10,810,000 €, total budget to GCU - 896,455
 €) a 3-year project aimed at phosphorous recovery from wastewater. The combined outcome
 of these external funding was 10 outputs by Escudero, Helwig, Hunter, McNaughtan and
 Pahl.

 Jiang obtained grants from Lake Constance Water Supply Board in Germany (£125,114) to
 systematically examine the end product formation and the corresponding toxicity when water
 is treated by the oxidation processes. Jiang also obtained grants from Scottish Water to
 assess a range of filter media within both laboratory and industrial settings. This funding
 support led to five further outputs from the Water Research Group. Jiang also carried out a
 knowledge exchange project with UPM Pulp and Paper Ltd to successfully apply ferrate
 technology in the treatment of pulp and paper industrial wastewater (£23,727.00).

 The NbS group were awarded a H2020 Project (Emmanuel, Mickovski, Thomson and Ollauri,
 €12.26 million total grant over 4 years, €614K to GCU) in 2017. OPERANDUM (H2020, Grant
 No 776848) aims to reduce hydro-meteorological risks (flooding, landslides, coastal erosion,
 drought) in European territories through co-designed, co-developed, deployed, tested and
 demonstrated innovative green and blue/grey/hybrid Nature Based Solutions (NBS), and
 push business exploitation. The 27-partner consortium has provided science-evidence for the
 usability of NBS, best practices for their design based on participatory processes achieved
 through 7 open-air laboratories (OALs), one of which is led and managed by the GCU team.
 Emmanuel and colleagues from University of Reading, University of Moratuwa, Sri Lanka and
 research user partners were awarded NERC Science for Humanitarian Emergencies and
 Resilience (SHEAR) Grant Scheme to work on a 3-year project entitled ‘Climate service for
 resilience to overheating risk in Colombo, Sri Lanka: a multi-scale mapping approach
 (COSMA)’. External funding to the NbS group resulted in four outputs.


                                                                                          Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Significant knowledge-transfer activities by the Unit included Innovate UK funding (£193,638)
 to Mickovski and colleagues in partnership with the Highways Team at Jacobs UK Ltd., to
 develop innovative and sustainable approaches and processes for protecting the water
 environment during major highway construction. Hytiris and Emmanuel were awarded
 £131,841 by Innovate UK to develop innovative solutions for managing the sub-surface water
 in Strathclyde Passenger Transport (SPT) Subway’s tunnel system to provide wider
 environmental and economic benefits. These KTP initiatives led to four submitted outputs.

 A key to our societal benefit/common good engagement efforts is contract research with
 practical applicability to industry, government and the third sector. For example, Teedon and
 Helwig (with the James Hutton Institute) delivered the Sustainable Rural Communities:
 Community Pilots project for CREW (Scotland’s centre for expertise for waters) engaging
 communities to investigate the potential and actual impacts of private water supplies on
 individuals, owners, communities, individual businesses (particularly around tourism,
 agriculture and small business start-ups), the rural economy, and consequently population
 distribution) (£56,715.00). This was interdisciplinary project carried out with GCU members of
 UoA20.

 Thomson was the Principal Investigator for Sustainability Benchmarking Tool for Buildings
 project, funded by Energy Technology Partnership Knowledge Exchange Project working with
 Whole Life Consultants Ltd, in 2015/’16. The research provided the underlying framework for
 a Sustainability Benchmarking Tool for helping evaluate a buildings sustainability
 performance against 1) current regulations and best practice guides, and 2) against a data
 base of other buildings. The foundation of this stemmed from joint research during the
 EPSRC funded SUE-MoT and this funding provided the opportunity to provide expertise to
 the development of their commercial tool. This has followed on to secure £6,000 of funding
 from Scottish Construction Innovation Centre for an MSc student to work with them on a
 marketability assessment of the toolkit and its potential.

 Jafry collaborated with the Environmental Research Institute at the University of the
 Highlands and Islands on a Scottish Govt. funded initiative to develop the “Scottish
 Government Arctic Policy: Mapping Report” in 2019, authored by Jafry, Mikulewicz and
 colleagues.


 Infrastructure and facilities

 The Unit has access to a full-scale Environment Chamber facility and three laboratories
 aligned with the Research Groups. The Chamber facility consist of a workshop and three
 environmental chambers (full scale testing chamber to test the effects of temperature, relative
 humidity, driving rain and infra-red radiation with independent parametric controls; smaller
 materials testing chamber and a thermal property test rig).

 Nature-based Solutions (NbS) Lab has access to a wide selection of laboratory equipment for
 testing soil mechanics (e.g. soil shear strength, soil water retention, soil particle size
 distribution, soil density, soil organic matter, soil liquid and plastic limits, soil compaction),
 chemistry labs in which the basic chemical composition of soil, water, and gas samples can
 be analysed (e.g. total Kjeldahl nitrogen, phosphorous, heavy metals, TOC, carbon dioxide,
 and methane). The lab also has access to two environmental chambers, where plant-soil
 interaction experiments can be developed under controlled environments. The lab possesses
 an array of soil monitoring sensors (e.g. soil moisture sensors, soil temperature probes, and
 tensiometers), data loggers, GPR, DAQs, penetrometers, shear vanes and boxes and related
 equipment for the deployment of field-based research stations looking into plant-soil-
 atmosphere interactions.




                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sustainable materials and soils laboratories have the following facilities: Mercury Intrusion
 Porosimetry, Scanning Electron Microscopy, universal compression machine, concrete and
 mortar mixers, Automated Vicat Apparatus, PUNDIT, Schmidt Hammer.

 Water Lab has established major laboratory facilities and instruments including FTIR
 Spectrometer, Flame Atomic Absorption Spectrometer, Fluorescence Spectrometer, Raman
 Spectrometer, Electronic Scanning Microscopes, Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectroscopy
 (GC-MS), High Performance Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectroscopy (HPLC-MS),
 Autoclave, Total Organic Carbon Analyser, Kjeldahl distillation unit, Anaerobic digesters,
 Palintest heating block and Spectrometer, Temperature controlled incubator.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The Unit’s collaboration and wider contribution to research base is coordinated by the two
 Research Centres and supported by the research groups in discipline specific information and
 exchange both inwards and outwards.


 Interdisciplinary collaboration

 Our researchers in construction safety, building energy performance, environmental sciences,
 climate justice and stakeholder engagement collaborated with a wide variety of disciplinary
 experts.

 Working with occupational therapists and epidemiologist, Hare built on previous research
 using visual methods of communication (pictograms) to use body mapping for
 Musculoskeletal Disorder risk assessment, which in turn was identified by the Institution of
 Occupational Safety & Health (IOSH) for national news coverage, influencing local authorities
 to change waste collection systems to wheeled bins.

 Collaborating with social scientists and poverty alleviation specialists, Baker helped to
 reconceptualise fuel poverty as a complex problem and proposed a new framework for
 assessing the condition that incorporates dynamic risk-based measures.

 Together with community regeneration specialists, engineers, social scientists and education
 specialists, Jafry explored ways to embed universal access to water as a right and associated
 responsibilities.

 An inter-disciplinary group of hydrologists, analytical chemists, waste and environmental
 chemistry specialists (Helwig, Pahl, Roberts, Hunter, McNaughtan, Escudero) highlighted
 important considerations on source attribution, as well as providing an up-to-date risk ranking
 of pharmaceutical pollutants. It is particularly relevant at the moment as changes to
 prescribing are being considered in Scotland, which will take into account for the first time the
 environmental impact of pharmaceutical compounds.

 Our environmental scientists (Pahl and Hunter) collaborated with environmental engineers
 and waste management specialists to develop novel models to accurately estimate the
 efficacy of anaerobic co-digestion process for biogas production.

 Teedon collaborated with experts from occupational medicine, toxicology and pesticide
 control that highlighted community researchers’ abilities to build and sustain trusting
 relationships with participants, which enhanced the rigour of the study as a result of their on-
 the-ground responsiveness and flexibility resulting in data collection beyond expected targets.

 Furthermore, Emmanuel collaborated with researchers in Computing and Interactive Systems
 to develop Low Power Wide Area Wireless Network for Smarts Cities and Remote Health


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Monitoring which forms the basis of an Impact Case Study underpinning the REF 21
 submission by a neighbouring UoA within our School (UoA11).

 Teedon led the Water Environment Micro-pollutants Scientific Initiative (WEMSI) Project
 engagement activity undertaken in Brazil both in Săo Paulo and Curitiba around
 understandings of and attitudes towards aquatic (micro) pollution. Engagement was
 undertaken with both members of resident communities e.g. adjacent to Billings Reservoir in
 Săo Paulo and policy and regulatory stakeholders. This interdisciplinary project funded by the
 British Council - Newton Fund Institutional Links Programme on monitoring and mitigating
 micro-pollutants in Brazilian waters: source attribution, environmental risk, community and
 stakeholder engagement. It investigated water micro-pollutants in two urban areas to prioritise
 micro-pollutants in Brazil’s Billings Reservoir (Săo Paulo) and Belem River (Curitiba) through
 the engagement of appropriate regional, scientific and regulatory stakeholders and
 communities adjacent to these water sources.


 Networks for the common good

 The Unit has wide-ranging networks from professional bodies, technical committees, national
 and international scientific committees to community groups and external events organization.
 SDGs form the basis for these engagement activities:

    •   SDG3 - Good health and wellbeing: Enhanced Cod Removal and Drinking Water
        Treatment, (partnership with Lake Constance Water Supply, Jiang); EDPHiS -
        Environmental Determinants of Public Health in Scotland (Partnership with Public
        Health Scotland, Teedon); Development of a worker engagement model (The
        Berkeley Group, Berkeley Group, HSE, CITB, Morgan Sindall, Mitie, Galiford Try,
        CALA, Joseph Gallagher, Laing O'Rourke, Sodak, Arcadis, EDF Energy, Unite: Hare)

    •   SDG9 - Industry, innovation and infrastructure: Improving Designers on Preventing
        Hazards (IOSH, Glasgow Institute of Architects, HSE, AMEY, Allford, Hall, Monaghan
        & Morris Ltd. Architects; Hare); Crane Erect OSM (Stewart Milne Group, Tong)

    •   SDG 13 - Quality of education/climate action: MUrCS Project (Lahti University of
        Applied Sciences; University of Huelva, ES; six other Associate Partners from Brazil,
        Sri Lanka, Israel, South Africa and industry/local authority partners) (Emmanuel,
        Thomson)

    •   SDG14 and 15 - Life on land / below water: Changes to Agricultural Land Bank
        (Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Mickovski); KTP Project (Jacobs UK Ltd,
        Mickovski); ECOMED Project (TU Madrid, Istanbul Uni, EmmaTech, Astrolabe,
        Sangalli y Coronel, Naturalea, INRA, Jemmbuild, ITC Formia, UoEvora, ICE Klaus
        Peklo, Geing; Mickovski, Thomson); OPERANDUM (https://www.operandum-
        project.eu) (University of Bologna, Italy plus 26 academic, industry and NGO partners
        from the EU and beyond; Emmanuel, Mickovski, Ollauri and Thomson); EU COST
        TU1401 - Renewable Energy and Landscape Capacity, resulting in publication of
        Glossary on Renewable Energy terms and Landscape Quality
        (http://www.tajokologiailapok.szie.hu/pdf/2018_SpecialIssue2/2018specialissue2.pdf)
        (Mikulewicz).


 Membership of organisations and committees

    •   Hare is currently International Coordinator of CIB W099 (H&S) and conference chair,
        as well as chair of CIOB H&S Special Interest Group
    •   Baird held the Presidentship of Chartered Institution of Wastes Management (CIWM)
        2015-2016

                                                                                         Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Emmanuel was Secretary, International Association for Urban Climate (IAUC -
        www.urban-climate.org), the largest international network of urban climate researchers
        (2012-2016)
    •   Klemm is Council member of the Institute of Concrete Technology; Construction
        Industry Research and Information Association (CIRIA); member of RILEM Technical
        Committees and working group leader within TC 260 RSC - Recommendation for use
        of Superabsorbent Polymers in concrete construction as new internal curing agents
    •   Mickovski is member of ISSMGE TC307 - Sustainability, resulting in journal publication
        in a special issue of the Engineering Sustainability journal; member of CIB
        W120/TG91 preparing the roadmap of natural disasters research capacity and
        networks (2018- current); participated in EU COST TU1202
    •   Helwig represents One Health Breakthrough Partnership, subgroup on contaminants
        of emerging concern
    •   Zhang is a member of the UK Timber Design Code Committee and other European
        Standard Committees - B/525/5 Timber Design Code Committee and
        CEN/TC124/WG1 Timber Structures/Testing Methods for Construction Supervisors
        (In-kind contribution to project funded by CITB) (2017 - 2019)
    •   Thomson has been a member of the Association of Researchers in Construction
        Management (ARCOM https://www.arcom.ac.uk) since 2016.


 International events and conferences

    •   CCJ hosted a prestigious Elsevier Conference, the World Forum on Climate Justice, in
        June 2019 (https://www.elsevier.com/events/conferences/world-forum-on-climate-
        justice). Addresses including Rt. Hon Nicola Sturgeon MSP, First Minister of Scotland,
        Mary Robinson, MRFCJ, Penelope Endersby, Chief Executive of MetOffice; Prof Sir
        Andrew Haines, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine explored pressing
        topics in climate justice advocacy, research, policy and practice as we adapt to reach
        the 1.5°C goal
    •   In January 2017, the BEAM Centre co-hosted the “Overcoming obstacles to high
        density resilient cities” event with the Chartered Institute of Building Services
        Engineers (CIBSE) and University College Dublin. The event explored the
        interdependent relationships between built form, energy, climate and health and
        wellbeing in the context of dense urban environments and led to an output submitted
        for consideration for REF21 (DOI: https://doi.org/10.1080/09613218.2018.1499995 and
        https://doi.org/10.1016/j.uclim.2020.100642)
    •   Mikulewicz obtained support from The Royal Geographical Society (RGS) to host a
        Climate Change Research Group (CCRG) development workshop in January 2020 to
        develop key skills for critical climate change research
    •   Thomson hosted the 35th ARCOM Annual Conference in September 2020.


 Engagement with research users, beneficiaries and audiences

 Members of the Unit have been engaged with research users in three ways: actionable
 research that focuses on social innovation, engagement with legislators, regulators and
 decision-makers, and impactful research targeted at specific organisational audiences:

    •   Thomson undertook to look at how collaboration and greater and more effective
        pathways of communication can be fostered with stakeholders and communities
        involved in active travel infrastructure projects. In collaboration with Glasgow City
        Council they were able to directly embed the PhD-developed CoCo Toolkit into the
        planning of a major active travel infrastructure project. Working with stakeholders, the
        toolkit underpinned a proposal for funding from the Scottish Government for
        developing a cycling village in the Yorkhill and Kelvingrove area of Glasgow

                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        (https://ayecycleglasgow.org.uk/yokecoco-secure-13m-to-create-cycling-village-in-
        west-end/). thus providing both validation for the research but also helping to secure
        the funding of £13 million from the Scottish Govt in a competition across Scotland for
        such projects.
    •   Hare’s appointment by the Scottish Government as ‘Senior Advisor - Buildings and
        Construction’ for the Independent Review into the Queen Elizabeth University Hospital
        Infections of 2018/19, commissioned by Jeane Freeman, MSP Cabinet Secretary for
        Health and Sport.
    •   Jafry and colleagues provided research-informed evidence to shape public policy -
        including International Development Committee Inquiries on the topics of “UK aid
        combating climate change” and “climate change and disability”. Their evidence was
        featured in the committee’s reports titled “11th Report - UK aid for combating climate
        change” and “13th Report - DFID's work on disability - inclusive development”
        published in July 2019.
    •   Baker provided evidence to Scottish Parliament Local Government and Communities
        Committee; Black Commission on Housing and Wellbeing (Baker) - verbal evidence to
        government and stakeholders, which led to changes in Fuel Poverty Act (2019) (see
        our impact case study on fuel poverty and energy policy by Baker and Emmanuel).
    •   Emmanuel acted as an expert advisor on the content and analysis contained in the
        Final Assessment Report of the First Scottish Climate Change Adaptation Programme
        by the Adaptation Sub-Committee of the UK Committee on Climate Change in March
        2019.
    •   Under the leadership of Thomson (and coordinated by the BEAM Centre) an
        embedded researcher (subsequently awarded a PhD) in Health Facilities Scotland
        (HFS) evaluated the performance measurement system used to manage health care
        estate. Findings were developed in collaboration with HFS and report is being used
        now to improve the system as part of a strategic review and to underpin a wider policy
        and management review of performance measurement. Additionally, BEAM Centre
        researchers engaged with the NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde (GG&C) Board at its
        flagship hospital (Queen Elizabeth University Teaching Hospital) in 2017-2019 to
        identify and overcome overheating issues in this and other Scottish Hospitals.
    •   Teedon engaged with health-related research users via membership in NHS Health
        Scotland Public Engagement Advisory Group. The Group’s role was to advise NHS
        Health Scotland on its public engagement activities and to deliver strategies and
        priorities for this (Teedon was the only academic member of the group). Additionally,
        Teedon’s work was commissioned by a government department to inform its own
        reflections on the pesticide regulatory regime.
    •   Emmanuel collaborated with the Glasgow Clyde Valley Green Network Partnership
        (GCVGNP) and the Glasgow City Council to provide evidence to the likely cooling
        effect of strategically placed green infrastructure to mitigate the expected urban
        warming till 2050.
    •   Baker’s work via contract research for key stakeholders including the Scottish
        Government, ClimateXChange Scotland, the Eaga Charitable Trust, Citizens Advice
        Scotland, Calor Ltd, Scarf, and Ricardo-AEA led to better understanding of the needs
        of fuel poor householders (as evidenced by the impact case study submitted by our
        Unit).
    •   Lawani and colleagues (funded by Construction Scotland Innovation Centre, CSIC,
        £56k) explored, site productivity enhancement through an in-depth longitudinal case
        study to measure and improve site productivity in house building. This was achieved
        through the implementation of timber kit off site manufacturing (OSM) with the crane-
        erect build method that identified opportunities for improvement in terms of process
        efficiencies (accurate schedule management and improving the planning of work
        packages and logistics management), crane optimisation (exceptional crane downtime
        and recommendation for productivity improvement).




                                                                                       Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Contributions to the research base

 Members of the Unit contributed to the research base in built environment via keynote
 addresses, journal/special issue editorships, peer review colleges and external examination of
 PhDs internationally.

 Keynote addresses include:

    •   Hare - ‘Safety in Design’ research for CDM Regulations at ICE Conference London
        (2016), IOSH CPD Gretna (2017), Scottish House builders & Glasgow Institute of
        Architects, 2019
    •   Baker - Rethinking Fuel Poverty as a Complex Problem - Holyrood Communications
        conference
    •   Mickovski - 6th Geotechnical Seminar UFRN-PEC, Natal, Brazil, 2017, Invited panelist
        at the ICE/BGA debate - BIM in Geotechnics of the Northern Geotechnical Group,
        2016, Session Chair CIB World Building Congress, Hong Kong 2019 - Natural
        Disasters (WG119) session; SEMC Cape Town 2019 - Soil and Water Bioengineering
        session
    •   Thomson - Engineering, Procurement and Construction Conference
    •   Klemm - 1st International Conference on Construction Materials and Structures,
        Johannesburg, South Africa, 2014, 11th International Symposium on Brittle Matrix
        Composites, Warsaw, Poland, 2015, 2nd International Congress on Materials &
        Structural Stability, Rabat, Morocco, November 2017, 12th International Symposium
        on Brittle Matrix Composites, Warsaw, Poland 2019; Emmanuel - Architectural
        education in a time of climate emergency, CASE/KSA Keynote address, University of
        Kent, 2019.

 Editorial roles of our members include:

    •   Mickovski - Associate Editor, Arabian Journal of Geosciences, Springer; Member of
        Editorial Board - Environmental Geotechnics, ICE Publishing, Innovative Infrastructure
        Solutions, Springer; Guest Editor of a Special Issue of Ecosystem Services, Elsevier,
        Procedia-ESEM journal (vol. 4, iss. 4)
    •   Klemm - International Journal of Computational methods and Experimental
        Measurements, Journal of Building Physics in Theory and Practice
    •   Emmanuel - Building Research and Information (vol. 46, iss. 8, 2018).

 Our peer review college involvement includes:

    •   Klemm - H2020, FORMAS (Swedish Research Council), National Research
        Foundation (South Africa), Caixa Foundation (Spain)
    •   Emmanuel - UKRI - Peer Review College, FLF Scheme, NSF (Portugal), MIUR (Italy),
        GACR (Czech Republic), NWO (the Netherlands), ISF (Israel), Erasmus+ (CBHE),
        IILG Scheme (USA) and EPSRC
    •   >40 external PhD examination in Europe and Asia.


 Public Engagement for wider societal and economic benefits

 Our engagement with the wider society is in line with the mission of our University, ‘for the
 common good’ and targeted specific areas of our research that has wider societal benefit -
 including climate change and climate justice, fuel poverty in the built environment,
 geotechnical engineering, water research, health, safety and risk management.

    •   Recognising the benefit of CCJ’s research to change lives, policy and practice, Jafry
        and a PhD student in Climate Justice were invited to a reception at the House of Lords

                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        on access to safe water in a celebration of the work of Village Water, an NGO in
        Zambia, which strives to provide safe water and transform the lives of people living in
        rural Zambia, where CCJ collaborated on the Water for ALL project.
    •   In the area of fuel poverty in the built environment, Baker’s work on the rural uplift in
        fuel poverty is a common theme in his engagements with Scottish Parliament’s Cross-
        Party Group on Housing / Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency, Energy Poverty
        Research initiative, European Energy Poverty Observatory - Advisory Board and UK
        Fuel Poverty Research Network. These engagements were key to his work being
        taken up by the Fuel Poverty (Scotland) Act as demonstrated in one of our Impact
        Case Study on Fuel Poverty and Energy Policy.
    •   Water Research Group members coordinated and promoted public engagement
        activities, including the Glasgow Science Festival for 3 years running, Smart STEM
        events for 4 years, the Dippy on Tour Event at the Kelvingrove Museum and GCU’s
        community days amongst others. Through these public outreach activities, the Group
        raised awareness of water pollution, Over the past 5 years, the group engaged with >
        250 professionals, > 1000 members of the public and >1000 children on the broad
        topic of water pollution and monitoring, as part of research activities, research
        dissemination and promotional activities relating to water science. Furthermore,
        research projects by the group (such as Phos4You) garnered considerable media
        attention on the use of microalgae to recover phosphorus (BBC News Scotland, “New
        research into recovering phosphorus from sewage”: https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-
        scotland-41374541).
    •   Similarly, geotechnical engineering research by Mickovski and colleagues assisted the
        Stonehaven and District Community Council to develop an Independent Hydrology
        Audit scheme to respond to planning applications submitted to Aberdeenshire Council.
        The IHA scheme was developed and six developments were assessed in the 2016.
        The IHA development including a case study was published in Wiley’s Water and
        Environment Journal.

 Further public engagement for societal benefits were provided by members of the Unit in the
 form of independent expert opinion for the media when news stories break:

    •   Hare - Glasgow School of Art fire (2018): 17th June TV interviews: BBC World
        Service, BBC Scotland, Ch. 4; generated 151 reports nationally/internationally; with
        estimated 765 million worldwide views/readers. Forecast £100m rebuild cost ‘The
        Scottish Times’ Front Page 18th June 2018 - subsequently confirmed by GSA insurers
        as an accurate estimate (additionally, two articles in ‘The Conservation’ to discuss the
        severity and the lessons for other cities elicited 13,622 and 2,091 reads respectively
        by Jan 2019).
    •   Jafry - STV programme Scotland Tonight to discuss Extinction Rebellion demand for
        zero emissions by 2025 (April 2019) as well as writing an opinion article for the Journal
        of the Law Society of Scotland on the climate emergency
        (https://www.lawscot.org.uk/members/journal/issues/vol-64-issue-08/opinion-tahseen-
        jafry/).
    •   Helwig et al. - Appearances on national TV and Radio (Radio show contribution:
        https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p0281ylg; BBC News Scotland) to promote new
        research into recovering phosphorus from sewage”: https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-
        scotland-41374541.

 Recognition of our public engagement came in the form of awards, prizes and inclusion in
 research agenda setting:

    •   Jafry - Elsevier Atlas Award (Mar 2017).
    •   Hare, Lawani and Cameron, won the prestigious Hinze Prize for their Conference
        Paper, titled: “Developing worker engagement maturity model for improving
        occupational safety and health (OSH) in construction” subsequently published in the
        Journal of Construction Project Management and Innovation, Vol 7, pp 2116 -2126.

                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Hare won the Institution of Civil Engineers Parkman Medal twice in 2017 and 2019 for
        best paper of the year in their peer-reviewed proceedings.
    •   Mickovski was awarded the International Innovation & Research Awards (Premier
        Award) by Chartered Institute of Building, 2016 for the research paper ‘Implementation
        of eco-engineering design into existing slope stability design practices.’
    •   Jafry was one of 107 authors selected from 40 countries, to be included in the World
        Social Science Report 2016, that sets the research agenda for the next 10 years in
        inequalities research.




                                                                                       Page 16
