Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of York

 Unit of Assessment: 28 - History


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit structure and context
 York History is a leader of the historical profession internationally (e.g. QS World Top 50
 Department) and nationally (e.g. its commitment to the equality and diversity agenda, as cited in
 the RHS Race, Ethnicity and Equality Report).

 The ethos of the Department is: i) to maintain a broad research base that covers all periods from
 late antiquity to the present ii) to uphold its commitment to interdisciplinarity, which is fostered
 synchronically through research centres with cognate disciplines and diachronically through its
 own thematic research clusters iii) to ensure that diversity and equality is embedded in our
 research culture, a commitment that is evidenced by the award of an Athena SWAN Bronze
 Charter in 2018 and in our appointments and promotion procedures (2.2 below).

 The large size of our Department allows us to embody our commitment to (i). Our submission
 includes 49 staff, or 45.4 FTE, comprising 44.4 FTE members of staff on open contracts. In the
 Department of History there are 3.5 FTE Research Fellows (Grade 7), 8.2 FTE post-doctoral
 researchers (Grade 6), and 42 registered (27.6 FTE) PhD students. Our size enables us to
 deliver on our commitment to breadth and diversity.

 Interdisciplinarity (ii) is achieved through the centres (IDCs) that we fund and participate in. They
 are: the Centre for Medieval Studies (CMS); the Centre for Renaissance and Early Modern
 Studies (CREMS); the Centre for Eighteenth-Century Studies (CECS); and the Centre for
 Modern Studies (CMODS). Their seminars, conferences, and public engagement and those of
 the Humanities Research Centre (HRC) ensure a thriving interdisciplinary culture and nurture
 PhD students. For example, the CMS (12 staff from History, 39 in total) promotes
 interdisciplinary research across the Middle Ages c. 500-1500 across four core humanities
 departments. CMS hosted 48 conferences, resulting in 5 edited collections. York Medieval Press
 publishes 5-10 titles annually. Research grant successes (Ormrod, Watson, Biller and Rees
 Jones) totalled £2.5 million. New initiatives (aided by new appointments Munt, Vohra) include
 the Global Middle Ages and Islamic World Studies.

 The research clusters - Americas, Asia, STEM, Religion and Public History - allow us to
 deliver on commitments i) and ii). They permit the Department to maintain its breadth of
 geographical coverage beyond periods:

 The York Centre for the Americas (YCA, 8 History staff): supports a cross faculty network. It
 was strengthened by the appointment in 2015 of two US historians (Huyssen and Mitelpunkt)
 and also includes staff working on Latin America and the Caribbean. Recent successes include
 Altink’s presentation to the International Development Committee of the UK Parliament about
 her work on environmental resilience in the Caribbean and Huyssen’s British Academy Rising
 Star Engagement Award (2017).

 Asia (11 staff): ranges from medieval to modern and across the Middle East, India, China and
 Japan. It organizes regular seminars and has been crucial in promoting the interdisciplinary
 study of Asia across the University, through the York Asia Research Network (YARN,
 2016). PhD student, Florence Mok, won the Eduard B. Vermeer Prize for the Best Article in
 China Information (2019).

 Science, Technology, Environment & Medicine (11 staff): The core focus is the Centre for
 Global Health Histories (CGHH) which is also a WHO Collaborating Centre for Global Health
 Histories. CGHH promotes interdisciplinary work on themes of medical, scientific, environmental

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and public health and advises policymakers and NGOs. STEM historians also work closely with
 the Wellcome Trust-York funded Centre for Future Health, the Leverhulme Centre for
 Anthropocene Biodiversity (LCAB; co-director Jenner) and facial transplants project led by UKRI
 future leaders’ fellow Bound-Alberti.

 Religion (13 staff): Research in this cluster informs, amongst others, the work of the Centre for
 the Study of Christianity and Culture (CSCC) a leading multi-disciplinary research centre that
 applies history and cutting-edge technology to carry out research, create interactive resources,
 and work with churches, cathedrals and other heritage sites to engage visitors through
 innovative interpretation. Its many projects involve other history staff in collaboration with
 Archaeology and TFTI and are underpinned by £1,632,611 in grant income since 2014.

 Public History (13 staff): The Institute for the Public Understanding of the Past
 (IPUP) embodies our commitment to public history and partnerships, promoting collaborative
 research and the co-production of knowledge with archives, museums, galleries, heritage,
 government and the media. IPUP also offers work placements for PG students across the
 Humanities; runs a seminar series; organises master classes by practitioners; and staff carry out
 research projects into how the past is used by individuals and communities to create identity.

 1.2 Research objectives and review of 2014 plans.
 In REF2014, the Department’s strategic plan envisioned: maintaining its current size and
 configuration, its chronological range and geographic diversity; creating new forms of
 interdisciplinary activity and external partnerships and building international and non-HEI
 partnerships; sustaining its grant income; exploiting more fully York’s unique cultural heritage
 and archive resources; maintaining its large cohort of research students. The expansion of the
 Athena SWAN award into the Arts and Humanities along with a more difficult financial climate
 led to a revision of the strategy to include:

    ●   Embedding equality and diversity more systematically into our research culture and
        management.
    ●   Retaining the balance of periods within the Department, while also expanding our post-
        1945 provision.
    ●   Building on existing interdisciplinary activity and external partnerships and creating new
        international and non-HEI collaborations.
    ●   Diversifying our research grant income.
    ●   Maintaining our graduate cohort and increasing the number of post-doctoral researchers.

 The award of an Athena SWAN Bronze award and strengthening new and external partnerships
 and collaborations – dealt with in sections 2 and 1.4 and 4 respectively – outline our strategic
 successes. The decision to target the internationally recognized collections of the Borthwick
 Institute for Archives (BIA) has been particularly successful, as evidenced by the Leverhulme-
 funded ‘Register of Archbishop Walter de Gray, 1215-55’ (£152,399; 2016-18) and the AHRC-
 funded ‘Northern Way – The Archbishops of York and the North of England, 1304-1405’
 (£807,386; 2019- 2021), both supported by the interdisciplinary expertise of CMS.

 Our commitment to cutting-edge research has also enabled the Department to diversify and
 increase its research income. It increased the level and range of UKRI funding to include four
 NERC awards (value £395,049), Fay Bound Alberti’s UKRI Future Leaders’ Fellowship (value
 £918,496); enjoyed its first successes in EU-funded research income (£656,315); and diversified
 its charitable income most notably with the award of 12 Leverhulme Research Fellowships
 (£599,466), 3 Leverhulme Major Research Fellowships (£260,304), and 2 Leverhulme Early
 Career Fellowships (c. £150k).
 In terms of PhD recruitment, the Department was part of the successful White Rose College of
 the Arts and Humanities (WRoCAH), which had its funding renewed for a further five years in
 2018 (see section 3). The Department also made significant strides in increasing the number
 and type of post-doctoral research fellows, following the setting up of a dedicated fellowship

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 page in 2018, with three Marie Curie Fellows, 2 Leverhulme early career fellows (match-funded
 by the department), 1 LCAB Fellow and 2 Centre for Future Health (Wellcome match-funded)
 Fellows.

 1.3 Impact Support and Facilitation
 The Department invested substantially to support, encourage and facilitate impact. Impact policy
 is co-ordinated by a member of academic staff, the Impact Officer, who sits on the Departmental
 Research Committee) and on the faculty Impact Liaison Committee. The Impact Officer gets
 teaching relief in the Departmental Workload Scheme and impact is a standing item on the DRC
 agenda.

 Impact is embedded in research through centres and projects. The Institute for the Public
 Understanding of the Past (IPUP), funded by the unit at £11k per annum, coordinates
 activities. The Centre for Global Health Histories (CGHH), works with governments and the
 WHO to inform health policy and transform institutional practice. England’s Immigrants, 1330-
 1550 enriches contemporary understandings of immigration through research into Medieval
 immigration; St Stephen’s Chapel transforms public understanding of the history and
 architectural development of St Stephen’s Chapel, and the history of parliament in general; the
 Centre for the Study of Christianity and Culture (CSCC) makes a significant contribution to
 regional and institutional policy towards and public understanding of sacred sites. Altogether, we
 work with over 30 regional and national partners in the Arts, Heritage and Media sectors and
 with national and international policymakers to impact society.

 The Unit’s four case studies for REF2021 - ‘Pilgrimage and England’s Cathedrals’, ‘England’s
 Immigrants, 1330-1550’, ‘History, the World Health Organization and the Empowerment of
 National Health Leadership in Sri Lanka’, ‘St Stephen’s Chapel and the House of Commons’ -
 are the product of these centres and projects.

 Although the Unit did very well in impact in REF2014, it recognized that it would need to develop
 four new case studies and to better support the leads. Accordingly, its leads are recognized in
 the Departmental workload model. The Directors of CGHH and CSCC have no or minimal
 responsibility for teaching and no Departmental administrative responsibilities. The other two
 ICS leads were PIs on major AHRC research projects and received considerable support and
 mentoring in developing their bids and are the recipients and significant buyouts of time
 permitting them time to dedicate to impact.

 The Department has made considerable financial investments to support Impact. Since 2014
 History has paid 1/8th of the post of Faculty Impact Manager. In addition to this, the Department
 employed a 0.5 FTE grade 5 Impact Administrator between 2017-19 to help with preparing case
 studies, cataloguing and capturing data, and supporting new impact work.

 The Department has also supported its impact strategy through winning funds from the
 competitive York Impact Accelerator Fund: January 2017 £8,935 to pump-prime the role of the
 Department Impact Administrator for 9 months; December 2017, £8,000 was obtained to support
 all ICSs and impact activities within the Department; December 2018, £4,605 to support,
 strengthen and seed relationships with partner organisations, including: workshops with heritage
 partners and events with industry experts.

 Looking to the future, the Department has encouraged Impact as a routine activity for all staff. It
 is embedded as part of the research criteria in Performance Review and Promotion. For
 instance, IPUP supported the development of historical consultancy in theatre, television and
 film around the work of Greig in changing professional practice in the production of historical
 drama.

 1.4 Support for Interdisciplinary Research
 The Department takes a leading role in the faculty IDCs - the Centre for Medieval Studies
 (CMS), which offers an interdisciplinary PhD in Medieval Studies; the Centre for Renaissance

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Early Modern Studies (CREMS); the Centre for Eighteenth-Century Studies (CECS); and
 the Centre for Modern Studies (CMODS). During this REF cycle, History provided 6 out of 11
 Centre directors, a role usually held for 2-3 years. IDC Directors are accorded significant
 teaching relief via the Departmental workload model (depending on the size of the centre). Each
 Centre has a dedicated administrator and space.

 The most significant change in our interdisciplinary research since 2014 has been the
 institutionalisation of links with the Sciences and Social Sciences. This has been facilitated firstly
 by the creation of 7 University research themes - Creativity, Culture and Communication,
 Environmental Sustainability and Resilience, Risk, Technologies for the Future, Equality
 and Justice, and Health and Wellbeing - each with their own dedicated research champion
 (see Institutional Environment Statement, paragraph 4). Departmental strategy is aligned with
 these themes and all applications for university pump priming must indicate how they contribute
 to these themes. Jenner is the Culture and Communication champion (2015-20), on a 0.5 FTE
 buyout. Jenner’s leadership (with Biology and Environment) was instrumental in the £10 million
 Leverhulme Centre for Anthropocene Diversity (2019-2029), which employs a History PDRA.
 Alongside the Environment and Politics departments, the Department was also a founding
 member (2017) of the Interdisciplinary Global Development Centre (IGDC), which was set up
 with a £1.5 million strategic investment from the University and offers an interdisciplinary PhD.
 The History Department also contributes a 0.3 FTE Director to the centre (Altink). Collaboration
 within this centre has already yielded significant income to the department, including three
 NERC grants involving the participation of Altink, Clarke and Cowie. STEM historians
 furthermore work closely with the York-Wellcome Trust-funded Centre for Future Health, which
 funded a 2-year History PDRA in 2018.

 The Department has led the way in driving interdisciplinarity at York in other ways. Its staff have
 been instrumental in founding two new geographically based interdisciplinary initiatives: 1) the
 York Asia Research Network (YARN), which has received funding from the Research Centre for
 Social Sciences to facilitate the creation of new interdisciplinary partnerships and strengthen
 international collaborations and 2) the Africa Network, which organises termly cross-university
 seminars and other events, often in collaboration with the IGDC and other cross-faculty centres.

 Another significant hub for generating interdisciplinary research activity is the White Rose
 consortium. This funds interdisciplinary student networks. Each network involves 3 PhD
 students, one at each of Leeds, Sheffield and York, and 6 supervisors (2 from each institution)
 coming from different disciplines. The Department has contributed staff and students to 5
 networks since 2013: Heroes and Heroism; Design Matters; Anti-clericalism and Freedom of the
 Press; The Future of Holocaust Memory; Electronic Soundscapes.

 1.5. The Open Research Environment
 We are strongly committed to developing an open research environment. We have developed
 an open access strategy that goes beyond complying with REF and funders’ open access rules
 and includes:
     ● Making chapters in edited collections available open access, where publishers allow
        this.
     ● Encouraging staff to target publishers with a limited embargo period for green open
        access.
     ● Ensuring that open access publishing fees are built into grant applications where
        allowed.
     ● Actively working with the Library’s Research Support Team to ensure that Data
        Management Plans submitted as part of UKRI applications consider the best way to
        ensure that any data collected is accessible to a wide audience.
 Furthermore, one of our staff (Ditchfield) sits on the University’s open research strategy group to
 ensure that future policy in this field takes account of the needs of Arts and Humanities
 scholars.



                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.6 Research Integrity
 The Department is compliant with the ethical, legal and professional frameworks appropriate to
 the discipline. The staff induction handbook refers to the University’s codes on Research
 Integrity and Practice and Principles for Good Ethical Governance and includes a checklist of
 areas where ethical considerations are likely to arise and sets out clearly what constitutes
 unacceptable conduct in relation to research. The Department signed up to and is compliant with
 the UUK Concordat to support Research Integrity. All PhD students have to undertake an online
 research integrity tutorial. PhD supervisors have the responsibility for ensuring their students
 have a clear understanding of appropriate practice. Research ethics and integrity is overseen at
 faculty level by The Arts and Humanities Ethics Committee (AHEC). The unit has a
 representative on the AHEC. Staff actively work with their PhD students and research
 assistants to complete ethics forms that meet the standard of good ethical practice and address
 possible risks that may occur during the research.

 1.7 Research Strategy Post-2020
 A strategic plan drawn up in 2018 commits the Department in the next five years to:

    •   widen the range of its external partners, including major heritage providers.
    •   attract funding from a wider range of funders to ensure sustainability.
    •   apply for an Athena SWAN silver award in 2021.
    •   address the diversity agenda more systematically and diversify our staff body and
        research base.
    •   review the operation of our Centres with a view to opening up new forms of
        interdisciplinary activity, especially with the Social Sciences.
    •   develop and internationalize our expertise in Public History.
    •   seek sources of funding for PhD studentships beyond WRoCAH.

 To achieve these, to date we have: revised our impact strategy; ran a staff workshop on the
 RHS’s race and equality’s report and made a new appointment (2020) in public history.

 2. People

 A. Staffing strategy and staff development

 2.1 Staff development strategy
 As outlined in the institutional statement (section 3), the University offers a structured
 programme for staff development at all career points.

 The Department’s success in terms of grant capture and in outputs (23 monographs submitted
 to REF2021) are a direct result of the significant support and guidance available to its staff. All,
 from post-doctoral researchers, to Professors are assigned a research mentor. All new staff are
 placed on a two-year probation with the Head of Department, reviewing and monitoring their
 progress. Research mentoring is entirely separate from the Performance Review process.
 Research mentors read drafts, advise on publication strategies and grant applications. The
 Department established its own Peer Review College in 2017, made up of senior staff to review,
 give feedback on and improve grant applications. All applications are routinely reviewed by at
 least 2 reviewers. The college, in cooperation with the Faculty’s Research Development
 Manager, also organises mock interviews for such funders as Wellcome and the ERC. This
 robust method of support for funding applications has resulted in a significant increase in
 success rates (section 3.1).

 All staff on research and teaching contracts and all research assistants and postdoctoral fellows
 are entitled to a personal research allowance to support research. The Department increased its
 annual research allowance since the last REF, when it stood at £600. From 2017 the award was
 ‘stepped’ according to seniority; £1,000 being awarded to each Lecturer and Senior Lecturer,
 while £750 is awarded to Readers and Professors, and postdoctoral research associates and

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fellows receive £500. This is predicated on that basis that it is easier for more senior members of
 staff to obtain funding from elsewhere. It has also permitted the pooling of more funds into the
 Department’s Research Preparation fund to target strategic and collaborative initiatives that can
 generate large funding applications. The Department’s Research Preparation fund has not only
 supported research but also training. In particular it supports colleagues who need languages
 vital for research. For instance, Drs John Howlett and Oleg Benesch have benefitted from 1-to-1
 specialist Chinese tuition amounting to £12,000.

 In addition to the annual research allowance and the Research Preparation fund, there are
 larger competitive funds available within the University. All research staff, including research
 assistants and postdoctoral fellows, are entitled to apply for internal University Research funding
 which ranges from seed funding and Research Champion funding to hold small events to the
 University Research Development Fund, which supports major strategic funding opportunities
 under the direction of the PVC for Research. Dyas, for example, was able to purchase drones
 and other equipment for 3D modelling, (£23,425). In addition, there are travel awards to permit
 international collaborations. The Santander International Connections Awards, which operated
 until 2016, and the World Universities Network (WUN) facilitated travel to a number of countries,
 including for example departmental delegations to China (2016) and Brazil (2015). The
 Department spent £97,718 on internal research pump priming (2013-20), as well as receiving
 funds from University schemes.

 Crucial to the Department’s research expectations is consideration of what is appropriate at
 each stage of a career. Fostering an open and equal research culture means indicating clearly
 the obligations that senior staff have towards junior colleagues at each stage of their career and
 that there is clarity in terms of career progression. In 2016 the Department therefore outlined the
 levels of support and typical expectations that are expected at the following four stages: New
 Researcher; Early Career Researcher/Lecturer; Mid-Career Researcher/Senior Lecturer; Senior
 Researcher/Reader/Professor. These expectations have recently been updated to reflect
 changes in the University research expectations, placing more emphasis on public engagement
 and open research.

 In 2015/16, a new approach to annual performance and development review was introduced
 allowing staff to reflect on successes, help them to identify areas for improvement and consider
 personal and career development aspirations and priorities. Career progression for women was
 raised as a particular issue in our 2017 Athena SWAN submission, given the relative lack of
 women in senior roles. This has not only informed our staffing strategy – we externally appointed
 a female reader in 2019 – but also our approach to promotions. The HoD and deputy HoD (who
 sits on the Faculty-level promotions panel) now look at career stage, gender and other factors
 across the department and approach staff to encourage draft promotion applications during the
 summer. Feedback is offered before final submission. All staff are actively encouraged to attend
 promotion events organised by the University and Faculty (including a women’s only event).

 2.2. Staffing and recruitment strategy
 It is departmental policy to appoint high-quality ECRs and to improve and nurture them, rather
 than to appoint established scholars. This was behind the unit’s success in REF2014 and is
 seen as crucial to the sustainability of the Department. During the assessment period, the
 Department appointed 13 permanent research and teaching staff. In its staffing policy, the
 Department continued its commitment to chronological breadth with permanent appointments in
 the medieval (Johnson, Munt, Vohra), early modern (Murphy and Stewart) and in the nineteenth
 century (Behm, Heinzen). In the modern period there was a particular emphasis, in accordance
 with our policy, on the post-1945 period (Bound-Alberti, Bivar, Wetherell, and Service) and on
 US history (Huyssen and Mitelpunkt). Of these 13 appointments, we achieved near gender
 parity: 7 male and 6 female. This reflects the changing language of our adverts – welcoming
 applications from female and/or BAME applicants, encouraging submissions from certain sub-
 disciplines of history, and stressing the possibility of flexible working. For example, for the recent
 Lecturer in Public History we specified a preference for ‘sensitive and marginalized histories.’


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department is overwhelmingly made up of staff on permanent research and teaching
 contracts (48 out of 49 staff). In principle, we appoint only to Teaching and Research contracts,
 reflecting our commitment to limit the use of teaching-only staff (at the census 4 staff were
 temporarily replacing people on research buyouts) in order to strengthen our research culture
 and provide high-quality research-led teaching. There are few research-only staff but numbers
 have increased as a result of major grant successes (each over £450k) by Bound-Alberti, Clarke
 and Rees-Jones and the expansion of CSCC. In 2020 we had a total of 9 Postdoctoral Research
 Associates, and 5 Postdoctoral Fellows.

 The Department prides itself on its commitment to equality and an essential part of our strategy
 was to address this issue more systematically and in line with national initiatives led by the
 Royal Historical Society. As part of the 2017 Athena-SWAN submission, the Department
 dedicated a significant amount of time and resource to investigating and collecting data on its
 gender balance with a view to reviewing recruitment practices and formulating policies to ensure
 equality and diversity. In 2017, 43.3% of our research and teaching staff were women. This was
 above average for Russell Group History Departments (36.42%). However, the submission
 identified that only 38.5% of research and teaching staff on open contracts were female and only
 13% of all readers and professors were female. The very small numbers of research-only staff
 rendered analysis difficult, though it was clear there was no gender imbalance among research-
 only staff.

 Following the 2017 submission, the Department has altered its recruitment practices in-line with
 Athena SWAN principles. Since then all short-listing and interview panels have been mixed-
 gender, and normally include one ECR. All staff sitting on interview panels must undertake
 training on unconscious bias, gender equality, recruitment policies and interviewing. In order to
 ensure that we always recruit according to best practice and in line with Equality and Diversity
 legislation, we introduced impartial ‘observers’ into the recruitment process, who do not take part
 in the selection, but are there to challenge instances of unconscious bias relating to all protected
 characteristics and ensure equitable treatment of all candidates.

 The 2020 census (45.4 FTE; 49 staff) demonstrates the strides the Department has made in
 implementing its staff strategy as now 43% of research and teaching staff on open contracts are
 female. Women outnumber men at Senior Lecturer level (9:7), demonstrating improvements in
 the area of progression from Grade 7. But as in line with other Russell Group history
 departments, there is still work to do at the senior level with 13 male Readers and Professors
 against 5 female. But even here our and University-wide changes to promotions’ policy is
 beginning to bear fruit: in 2014 the Department had only one female Professor; by 2018 it had
 three - all of whom have been internally promoted. And the 2020 promotion round saw further
 senior internal female promotions to Reader (2) and Professor (1).

 The demographic profile of the unit, with a large number of junior and mid-career researchers
 nurtured by the unit and progressing through it, facilitates good management of research activity
 and succession planning. The success of our strategy is that in 2013-20 only 4 permanent
 research and teaching staff left the Department (3 male and 1 female). Of these, 2 went on to
 more senior positions elsewhere. This further demonstrates both the supportive and nurturing
 environment provided and the strong emphasis on career progression. The Department’s
 equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) committee, set up after we achieved our Athena SWAN
 award, continues to support gender initiatives but is now also addressing race and ethnicity (see
 2.13).

 2.3 Support for and Integration of Early Career and Postdoctoral Researchers
 The progression and nurturing of ECRs is integral to Departmental strategy and its sustainability.
 As made clear in 2.1, all researchers receive a handbook and a full induction relevant to their
 work. ECRs and post-doctoral researchers are provided with a research mentor and nurtured
 through a probation process. They are made aware of the expectations appropriate to their level,
 so that they are not expected to perform tasks beyond what is reasonable for their level. In
 addition, all new research and teaching staff are guaranteed an allocation of 69 hours in the

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 workload scheme (compared to 35 hours for experienced staff) as a reduction in their teaching
 load, as they are expected to write new course material, and a £1,000 annual research
 allowance. ECRs are encouraged to attend workshops on promotion and use their Performance
 Review discussion to assess the route to advancement. The HRC also runs workshops for
 ECRs and postdoctoral researchers related to funding applications.

 ECRs appointed on temporary research and teaching contracts are treated no differently from
 permanent staff. They, for instance, are also provided with a research mentor and personal
 research allowance and can bid to the departmental pump priming fund. In 2014-20, of 16 staff
 employed on fixed-term contracts 5 have gone onto permanent research and teaching contracts
 elsewhere, 10 have moved onto fixed-term contracts and one has gone into law, demonstrating
 that the Department is a good destination for progressing a career.

 The Department has implemented the UUK Concordat supporting the career development of
 researchers in the following ways. All research-only staff are: routinely invited to meetings where
 topics for discussion are relevant, including research-away days; included in Departmental
 circulation lists, including the newsletter; assigned a research mentor; have time (at least 10
 days per year) and a personal allowance (£500) to further their own research; and participate in
 the annual performance review process. In addition, one researcher sits on the DRC and
 research staff are also represented on the EDI committee. At least once a year, the chair of
 DRC organises a meeting with all researchers to discuss issues specific to this cohort.

 All new staff with responsibility for research become members of a research cluster and one or
 more of the Departmental or Interdisciplinary Centres, which are lively fora for the integration of
 new researchers, supporting an intensive culture of seminars, workshops and conferences in
 which all levels of staff and postgraduate students participate as attendees, paper-givers and
 organisers.

 The success of its support for ECRs is evidenced by their success in winning externally funded
 leave: between 2013-20, six ECRs won 6.5 years of leave in addition to departmental leave
 ECRs publishing careers have also flourished, producing 6 monographs (see REF 2).

 2.4. Policy for Research Leave
 The Department’s world-leading reputation and success in grant capture is predicated upon
 structured research leave. All permanent staff can apply for two consecutive terms of research
 leave after three years of teaching. The planned four-year cycle is integrated into the annual
 workload scheme. All research leave applications are submitted for approval to the DRC. Since
 2016 we have changed our policy linking it more closely with our research expectations. All
 applications are now required to outline not only their planned research outputs, but also itemise
 funding applications and list possible pathways to impact. In this way, staff are encouraged to
 view their research not only as the product of individual effort but also as a contribution to overall
 departmental strategic research priorities. Staff submit a report after their return from leave
 indicating the extent to which they have met their research objectives. These reports are
 reviewed by DRC and feedback given on progress. In addition, staff are encouraged to apply for
 and mentored through the process of externally funded leave. In 2013-20 19 applications for
 externally funded leave (1 or 2 years) were successful, enabling the production of the large
 number of high quality outputs submitted by the unit, impact activities, and winning of larger
 project grants.

 2.5. Procedures for stimulating and facilitating exchanges with non-academic partners
 IPUP is the main hub for promoting partnerships between the University and museums,
 galleries, heritage and media organisations. The Institute draws together researchers,
 practitioners and audiences, see 4.2 below.

 Another main forum for exchange is the Departmental Advisory Board. Established in 2014, the
 board exists largely to facilitate knowledge of the external environment and partnerships with
 non-HEI organizations. Board members have included the Chief Executive York City Council,

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Head of Social Research at IPSOS-Mori, CEO York Museums’ Trust, the content director of
 BBC History Magazine, and the Principal Record Specialist at The National Archives.

 The Department funds and support Centres that have strong institutional links with non-HEI
 partners. CGHH works closely with and for the WHO as a Collaborating Centre and also works
 with NGOs and governmental agencies. CSCC has worked for the Church of England and
 various cathedrals and sacred sites. The Department seeds research projects through its pump
 priming money that brings its academics together with non-academic partners, for instance ‘The
 Northern Way – The Archbishops of York and the North of England, 1304-1405’ AHRC project
 (£807,386; 2019-2021) with the TNA and BIA was seeded with £5,400 from the Department.
 The HRC’s Impact accelerator and the university’s HEIF fund are also increasingly used by staff
 to meet with potential collaborators. More information about external engagement is provided in
 section 4.

 2.6 Recognizing and rewarding staff
 The large number of internal promotions in 2014-2020 shows that we reward staff. 11 were
 promoted to Senior Lecturer; 4 to Reader; and 4 to Professor. Our workload scheme recognizes
 research. The Departmental Impact Officer is awarded 100 points in the workload scheme and
 each ICS lead 50 points (in 2019-20 the average annual workload for full time staff was 623
 points). The Department shares its news of staff success through various media and is also an
 active participant in the HRC’s annual research celebration event, show-casing recent grants
 won and books published, and in the annual York Festival of Ideas. And in 2019 we overhauled
 our research pages making our research activities and outputs more visible to the wider
 research community, external organisations, and the wider public.

 B. Quality of Training and Supervision of PGR students
 PGRs are at the heart of the department. The major development in enhancing the relationship
 between supervisor and student since 2014 has been the elaboration of support provided by the
 purpose-built Humanities Research Centre (HRC). It provides postgraduate training sessions,
 including sessions on getting published and research ethics; runs a poster competition; and
 offers public engagement experience through the Festival of Ideas’ Fringe Family Fun
 Afternoon. It provides attractive workspaces for 126 postgraduate students, and hot-desking to
 the rest of the postgraduate community as well as access to other facilities in the building: social
 spaces, seminar rooms, the Bowland Auditorium. It supports fourth-year PhD students
 financially through the HRC Postgraduate Fellowships and its interdisciplinary project grants
 encourage students to take initiatives, design and deliver activities (reading groups, symposia,
 exhibitions, schools workshops, engagement projects, research showcases, conferences) and to
 see themselves as contributing to the wider community of researchers. The HRC also offers
 Postdoctoral Fellowships to recent York doctoral graduates, providing them with personal
 workspace, access to research support and a modest research grant. The Department held 5 of
 these 2013-20.

 2.7 Recruitment and Funding
 The Department is committed to sustaining the size and vitality of its Graduate School. PhD
 funding and training is provided through the White Rose College of the Arts and Humanities
 (WRoCAH) sustained by £19 million funding from the AHRC (2013-18). This was renewed in
 2019 with an additional £4 million provided by the WRoCAH partners, York, Sheffield and Leeds.
 The Department is also a member of the White Rose ESRC DTP and has received funding for
 research studentships from the Wellcome Trust, Commonwealth Studentships programme, the
 Chinese Scholarship Council, CONICYT (Chile) and the South Korean government. The unit is
 one of a select number of History Departments that has been awarded the prestigious Wolfson
 Postgraduate Scholarships in the Humanities; 4 scholarships in total (£303,500). The success of
 our equality and diversity policies is evident from our PhD cohort.

 Our PhD community is diverse. There were 42 PhD students registered at the census date of
 whom 15 or 36% are from overseas. Despite the more challenging financial situation in terms of
 funding, our high reputation and world-leading centres have enabled us to modestly increase

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 graduate numbers in relation to the previous cycle. A total of 97 History PhDs were awarded
 compared to 54 in the previous (5 year) REF cycle.

 The excellence of our research supervision has been recognised by the success in winning 20
 fully-funded PhD studentships since 2013 in the annual competitive WRoCAH funding round, in
 which History at York has to compete against 6 other arts and humanities clusters. WRoCAH
 also provides a separate stream of PhD funding that encourages interdisciplinary projects
 across the three universities. As mentioned in section 1.4 York History has been successful in a
 number of these.
 Further successes since 2013 include: 3 CDAs, 6 studentships embedded within externally-
 funded research projects, and 4 competitive University awards. Particularly notable has been the
 ongoing commitment of the Wellcome Trust to fund PhDs in the Department. The Department,
 via the Centre for Global Health Histories, secured the first Wellcome Trust Award in the
 Humanities and Social Sciences to be awarded to a non-UK candidate in 2017 and held one of
 the first Wellcome Trust fellowships that offer PhD funding for Health Professionals. The
 Department also offered its own internal PhD studentships, awarding c. £115,607 in total (2013-
 20).

 2.8 Monitoring, Support and Training
 Students are integral to the Department’s research culture and PGRs are encouraged to present
 their research and initiate research events; around 10% of departmental seminars have been
 given by PhD students, and students have the opportunity to chair seminars. The Department
 underwrites at least 2 postgraduate conferences a year (one in York, and one in conjunction with
 our international partners). All doctoral students are expected to give a presentation to the
 annual graduate conference at the start of their second year of registration The IDCs are central
 to PG life, hosting seminars and postgraduate-led fora and reading groups. In 2016, we started
 an international partnership with Bielefeld University (Germany), and a consortium of Swedish
 universities led by Lund. This comprises an annual PhD conference, as well as ‘desk-
 exchanges’ every autumn. The Department contributes £5,000 per annum to this venture.
 Students meet their supervisor at least twice a term. Each PGR also has a Thesis Advisory
 Panel (TAP) that meets twice a year to monitor progress and the quality of the supervision.
 Students enrolled since 2016/17 are subject to a formal system of progression with two formal
 reviews of progress at 12 months and 24-month for full time students. The reviews are overseen
 by a progression review board independent of the student's supervisors. It makes an
 assessment as to whether the student has met the relevant university progression criteria and
 also makes formal recommendations regarding student progression.
 The PhD programme is overseen by the Graduate School Board (GSB) supported by a graduate
 administrator. The system of supporting and monitoring is robust. Of the 77 PhDs submitted (69
 or 92%) did so within the 4 year period i.e 'on time'. A further 6 PhDs (7%) were submitted with
 extensions. Only 2 PhDs failed. In addition, 12 PhD candidates withdrew before submission.
 We have extended the range of training offered to research students. To enable more of our MA
 students to undertake a PhD, in 2018-19 we introduced a new range of research skills modules
 (oral history, palaeography, statistics, mapping, print culture, etc) across all our MA
 programmes. All WRoCAH-funded students are provided with a comprehensive programme of
 training and they also have the opportunity to undertake an employment and knowledge
 exchange placement. All PhD students in the Department have a core training programme
 supplemented by ancillary skills, offered through CMS, the BIA and the University’s Languages
 for All programmes. The Department also has a well-structured programme of training and
 mentoring for all postgraduates who teach. The HRC in addition offers a programme that
 addresses the need for PhD students to build expertise in collaboration, grant applications and
 Impact. With a view to career progression, we established (through IPUP) internships for PhD
 students with a variety of institutions including TV production companies, such as Channel 4;
 York Minster; York Museums Trust and Fairfax House. PhD students can also avail themselves



                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of training provided by York’s award winning Research Excellence Training Team, which offers
 training on such varied issues as getting published, research integrity and public engagement.


 The quality of the support and training is indicated by our graduates’ successes. Zhao Xuduo
 (Twentieth-Century China, 2019) is one of a number of students who have published in
 international peer-reviewed journals. PhDs have secured research assistantships at De Montfort
 University and the National Railway Museum, post-doctoral fellowships at the British School of
 Athens, Institute of Historical Research in London, the Folger Library, Max Planck Institute
 Berlin, and the universities of NUI Galway, Leicester, St Andrews, Tubingen, Western Australia,
 and permanent teaching posts at the universities of Bristol, Keele, Seoul, York. Outside
 academia, recent PhDs have taken up posts as schoolteachers, the Department of Culture
 Media and Sports and with Oxford University Press.
 C. Equality and Diversity
 Staff actively research race, gender, class and other inequalities in the UK and across the globe.
 The Department also has a strong commitment to equality and diversity, as evidenced by the
 award of an Athena SWAN Bronze Charter in 2018. In January 2016, the Department formed a
 self-assessment committee to prepare the application. The Department had already made
 changes to its promotion and appointment procedures, including the use of equality and diversity
 monitors during shortlisting meetings; changing the timing of the weekly research seminars to be
 more family friendly; drafting guidelines for the allocation of workload that takes gender and
 career stage into account; and drafting good practice policy to ensure that any research events
 are inclusive. Its work has now formalized in the establishment of a standing departmental EDI
 committee to monitor progress in carrying out the objectives outlined in the 2018 submission and
 includes not only research and teaching staff and student representatives but also professional
 support staff and research-only staff and, as mentioned, also addresses protected
 characteristics other than gender. The selection of outputs for REF 2020 was conducted by a
 committee comprising 50% women, which regularly reviewed the breakdown of outputs by
 gender, age and other protected characteristics.

 2.9 Study leave arrangements
 The Department operates a transparent policy of study leave for all permanent research and
 teaching staff as outlined in section 2.4. In 2014-20 all staff were successful in being granted
 study leave of 2 consecutive terms of leave every 4 years.

 2.10 Support for flexible and part-time working
 As part of the Athena SWAN submission, we undertook action to ensure that all staff are
 informed of our part-time and parental leave arrangements. Since then we have witnessed a
 higher take-up, including our first shared-parental leave arrangement. All staff can submit a
 request for timetable adjustments to meet their care responsibilities, e.g. not teach before 10 am
 or after 5 pm, and we have also made it easier for staff with caring responsibilities by scheduling
 all departmental committee meetings during core hours (10-4).

 2.11 Part-time and fixed-term staff
 8 of the 49 submitted staff are on fractional contracts and there is 50:50 gender parity in this
 group. Any staff are permitted to go down to a fractional contract and, finances permitting, return
 to a full-time contract. In contrast to some other History Departments, the unit has a commitment
 to not normally appoint on fixed-term academic contracts, other than to cover externally-funded
 leave, and for both fixed and permanent posts only to appoint on research & teaching contracts.
 In 2013-20, we employed 27 staff on fixed-term research and teaching or teaching-only
 contracts, mainly to cover external funded leave.

 2.12 Staff wellbeing
 Sections 2.10 and 2.11 and the listed actions taken as part of our Athena SWAN submission
 have particularly increased the support we offer to staff with caring responsibilities. But we also
 support the wellbeing of our staff more generally through regularly revising our workload
 allocation scheme, following University guidelines on managing ill-health and sickness, having a

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mental health first aider, and sharing information about the employee assistance scheme and
 other well-being resources in our staff newsletter.

 2.13 Promotion, funding and research support
 No distinction is made between part-time and full-time staff. All research and teaching staff are
 eligible for research leave after three years’ teaching, can apply for internal pump priming and
 are offered a research mentor and the full research allowance.

 The 2017 Athena SWAN submission reviewed in detail the issue of promotion, funding
 applications and access to internal funds. It reviewed the gender ratio of PIs of grants submitted
 between 2008 and 2016 finding that: 19 men submitted 63 grants (average 3.3 each) 12 women
 submitted 45 grants (average 3.8 each) The success rate of these grants did not differ much by
 gender, with women being slightly more successful (56%) than men (52%). Since then,
 however, women have become even more successful in grant capture. Throughout the cycle,
 some 50% of women have successfully applied as PI compared to 38% of men, and women are
 responsible for about 80% of our grant income.

 All applications for promotion are considered on an equal basis. Women had similar success
 rates to men in applying for promotion from grade 7 to grade 8 and although fewer women than
 men applied for a Readership or Chair, they were more successful. One applicant, who was on
 a fractional contract, was promoted from SL to Reader, showing that we do not discriminate in
 this area.

 The most significant finding of the Athena SWAN Submission was the gender imbalance at a
 senior level with only 13% of Readers and Professors women. Since then, as a result of
 increased departmental and faculty activities around promotion, there have been significant
 improvements in this regard, as the figures in 2.2 show.

 The 2017 self-assessment committee found no issues in relation to PGR students, where the
 cohort was more than 50% female. It found that the ability of students to attract funding is the
 only significant factor in whether students come to the unit. WRoCAH provides additional
 funding for childcare to attend core training activities.

 The recently formed EDI committee is now working towards an Athena SWAN silver award but
 also addresses other protected characteristics, including race and ethnicity. In line with the
 recently published RHS’s race and ethnicity report, it organised a workshop in 2019 on how to
 implement its various recommendations; 60 participants attended from other regional
 universities (in Leeds, Sheffield), from other departments at York, professional support staff, and
 postgraduate and undergraduate students. In addition, working with HR, our job adverts now
 routinely include a note welcoming application from BAME applicants.

 The Department gives leadership to gender and equality work in the faculty and university
 through the appointment of Altink as Chair of the Faculty’s Athena SWAN working group (2017-
 20). This faculty group organises an annual faculty women-only promotion session.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 The Department’s research strategy - built on its commitment to chronological breadth and
 interdisciplinarity - has been remarkably successful. Research income has more than tripled
 compared to the last REF; in 2008-13 research income was £2,391,070; in 2013-20 it was
 £8,537,262. 45% of all our applications were awarded and these include a number of prestigious
 large awards from the AHRC, Leverhulme, UKRI FLF and Wellcome. For the first time, the
 Department has raised income from the NERC (£395,049). These NERC grants also
 demonstrate the increasing interdisciplinarity of our research, enabling us to work alongside
 environmental and biological sciences. The success of the strategy explains York’s very high per
 capita grant capture relative to other UK History Departments. Between 2013 and 2017 we

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ranked amongst the top 5 history departments in terms of research income and during this
 period took about 4-5% of total history research income funding.

 There is a strong link between grant capture, our interdisciplinary research and impact strategy.
 Each of our 4 Impact studies have benefitted from internal pump-priming money (£93,935) and
 from external funding. Three of our ICS case studies - Pilgrimage (2014-18), St Stephen’s
 Chapel Westminster (2013-17) and England’s Immigrants (2012-15) - are the product of major
 AHRC research funding, including follow-on funding, and underpinned by interdisciplinary
 methods and practices.

 3.2 Organisation
 Research activity is overseen by the DRC, which comprises the Chair of Research Committee,
 the Head of Department, the Chair of the Graduate Board and a selection of ECRs and senior
 staff, and research-only staff. DRC administers and monitors the leave scheme, sets strategic
 priorities and reviews grant applications. Chair DRC gets a workload credit of 230 in our
 scheme, a significant relief when the average annual workload is 623 (2019-20). The
 Departmental Impact Officer (100 workload points) also sits on DRC.

 The support of the HRC has been crucial to the Department’s success in grant capture. Opened
 in 2009, this £11 million facility is the research wing of the Arts and Humanities Faculty. It has
 significantly expanded its support for research across the Faculty since 2014. This has seen its
 staffing grow to eight research support staff. Particularly notable since 2014 were the
 appointments of a Research Coordinator and Research Impact Managers (job share) to which
 the unit contributed funds. The HRC team helps staff to identify the most appropriate funder for
 research projects; advises on funder regulations and guidelines; discusses where and how a
 project might have impact outside academia; facilitates collaborative partnerships with other
 institutions, both within and beyond academia; costs proposals; reviews draft proposals and
 organizes mock interviews; assists Departments and PIs to communicate successful awards;
 and provides post-award support for funded projects.

 3.3. Infrastructure and Facilities
 The research of both staff and PhD students benefits enormously from the unusually extensive
 range of history resources available in York. On the one hand, there are various resources
 available in the historic city, such as York Explore, which is an accredited archive service with a
 large number of collections, including the civic archive which goes back to 1155, or the Minster
 Library which contains the collections of the Archbishops of York. And on the other hand, there
 are resources held at the University Library and Borthwick Institute for Archives (BIA). In recent
 years, the university has purchased or subscribed to digital source collections, including EEBO,
 ECCO, State Papers online, and Proquest’s American newspapers. These collections and digital
 resources have transformed the research that can be done at a provincial university and
 facilitated the increase in PhD students working on non-British history at York. The University
 Library also runs a weekly bus service to the British Library at Boston Spa, which particularly
 benefits PhD students. The Department works closely with the BIA, which is a modern, purpose-
 built record office located on the University campus. BIA holdings include extensive material
 relating to the Archbishopric of York, local nonconformist denominations, hospitals and schools,
 and many substantial local business and family papers and national organisations, including
 Alcoholics Anonymous. The close relationship is evidenced by award of two grants to exploit the
 BIA archives: the Leverhulme funded ‘Register of Archbishop Walter de Gray (1215-55)’ and
 AHRC funded ‘The Northern Way – The Archbishops of York and the North of England, 1304-
 1405’. The BIA is also used for MA research training modules and has hosted various IPUP
 internships.

 In addition, the purpose-built HRC provides a stimulating and supportive interdisciplinary
 environment in which researchers from across the arts and humanities devise and deliver
 research projects, crucially including activities and initiatives with specific and demonstrable
 value for non-academic communities. Such projects are developed in partnership with the
 heritage and conservation sector, publishing and broadcast media, cultural, civic, private-sector

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and charitable organisations, schools and other community groups. Through the work of its staff,
 the HRC supports the impact-related work of the arts and humanities at York through: the
 training of postgraduates and early career researchers in the need for, benefits of and pathways
 to impact; facilitating interdisciplinary projects and assisting with the development of impact-
 inclusive grant proposals; providing assistance in identifying, establishing and optimising
 external partnerships; offering a congenial and versatile space in which external partnerships
 may be nurtured and university-based project elements delivered; devising mechanisms for
 monitoring and measuring impact achieved.
 The HRC has four bookable rooms for meetings, seminars, lectures and other events, ranging in
 size from 16 to 144. Many events supported by the Department, as well as its own research
 seminars are held in the HRC. The HRC provides dedicated office space for two Departmental
 Centres, CGHH and CSCC, and two of the four interdisciplinary centres to which the unit
 contributes, CREMS and CMODs

 3.4 Equality
 All staff have access to the same support structures in the Department and the HRC, e.g.
 access to internal peer review and the mentoring system. The Department has its own workload
 committee and transparent workload model for rewarding those with research grants and
 responsibility for research management. The Departmental EDI Committee monitors our
 activities and also ensures that there is fair and equitable representation in staff and student-led
 workshops and seminars. As mentioned, women have led in grant capture both in terms of
 number of successful awards and value. Through mentoring, peer review and other methods,
 the number of grants submitted by early careers staff has significantly increased in recent years
 and this in turn, has helped 11 staff to get promoted to Senior Lecturer, 6 of them women.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
 Our externally-funded networks extend across the world. The Global Challenges Research Fund
 (GCRF) has done much to facilitate collaborations with the Global South. Altink has worked with
 staff at the University of West Indies, University of Ghana, Universidad de Los Andes in
 Colombia, Exeter University, Cambridge, and the University of Southampton on several GCRF-
 funded projects. The Department has also been involved in two Leverhulme-funded networks,
 which included several UK and overseas partners: ‘Exploring Russia’s Environmental History’
 (2013-16) and ‘Another World? East Africa and the Global 1960s’ (2018-). In addition, CGHH
 has collaborated with Fiocruz, a science and technology health institution attached to Brazil's
 Ministry of Health, on a variety of research and outreach events.
 These various relations with other UK and overseas universities and external stakeholders and
 also our public engagements (see 4.2) far exceed those of the previous REF cycle and have
 made our research more interdisciplinary and impactful.
 During the period, staff have undertaken sustained collaborations with a variety of external
 partners, which extend beyond the unit’s four ICSs:
 Heritage sector.
 Existing and emerging ICSs, as well as WRoCAH funded students on their Knowledge
 Exchange and Employability projects, engage extensively with a range of (local and national)
 heritage providers. For example, CSCC has over the years developed extensive connections
 with numerous cathedrals and churches across the UK. They have not only participated in its
 various AHRC-funded projects around pilgrimage but also used CSCC’s expertise to enhance
 the user experience. To date, CSCC has worked with 15 of 42 cathedrals and numerous
 churches, creating 3D visualisations and mobile apps to enhance the visitor experience. CSCC
 has become a pioneer in the impact/KE area and is now extending its work into other parts of
 the heritage sector. The AHRC-funded St. Stephen’s project has not only developed an online


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 tool for users of St Stephen’s chapel, but has also participated in consultations on the restoration
 of the Houses of Parliament.
 Policymakers.
 Staff routinely engage with a range of policymakers both nationally and internationally. The
 CGHH runs research master classes and training workshops for WHO staff, as well as the
 international arm of Public Health England, and live streams webinars (60 since 2013) to health
 care specialists across the world, while Bound Alberti is part of the Foundation Future Leaders
 scheme organised by the Foundation for Science and Technology which advises on links
 between business, industry, government and the research community. Staff also hold meetings
 with policymakers as part of their research projects, e.g. Moon and Altink have held meetings for
 their environmental projects with, amongst others, the UK Forestry Commission and the
 Caribbean Disaster and Emergency Management Agency. And at times, staff are asked to brief
 policymakers, such as McCann who has informed the U.S. Department of State Bureau of
 Intelligence and Research and the U.S. National Intelligence Council on East Africa.
 Educational Sector.
 Working with The National Archives (TNA), England’s Immigrants ICS has developed an online
 searchable database, which is used not only by researchers but also schoolchildren and
 students across the UK. The Department has also contributed to the educational sector by
 textbook consultancy work undertaken by various staff (Vohra and Clarke) while Renwick’s
 Guardian Long Read on the welfare state has been syndicated by the exam board OCR.
 Archives.
 The unit works extensively with the TNA and BIA to digitize and publicize the nation’s archives.
 In addition to the England’s Immigrants ICS, the Northern Way AHRC project by Rees-Jones
 collaborates with the TNA as well the BIA to digitise writings by Northern Bishops, bringing
 medieval voices hidden in the archives to the wider public.
 Many of these external collaborations are undertaken by Centres supported by the unit. CMS,
 for example, works with a number of external partners to develop postgraduate training and
 support new research initiatives. Partners include TNA, The Victoria and Albert Museum,
 Historic Royal Palaces, York Minster, York Glaziers Trust and York Museums Trust.
 4.2 Wider contribution to Economy & Society & Public Engagement
 The Department funds its own dedicated Institute, IPUP (currently £11k per annum) to promote
 partnerships between the Department and archives, museums, galleries, heritage, government,
 media in research and other areas (including e.g. student placements, internships, events etc.)
 Since 2013, IPUP has fostered and supported research in: public attitudes to First World War
 commemoration (‘World War 1 Commemorated’), military memory and regimental museums
 (‘Military Memories’), heritage values and archival heritage in York (‘Within the Walls’), digital
 history, Richard III in heritage and public memory (‘Richard III: Rumour and Reality’) and the oral
 history of working in the Palace of Westminster.
 Centres also undertake extensive public engagement work. CREMS, for example, has
 collaborated with the National Gallery London and the York International Shakespeare Festival
 and been involved in three book exhibitions with an online presence, including the 2017 ‘Art of
 Disagreeing Badly’ exhibition organised with the York Minster Library and also shown at the
 Middle Temple Library. CGHH has produced 5 freely downloadable image-rich and multilingual
 books around such themes as ‘universal health care coverage’ and ‘tropical diseases’, serving to
 engage a wider audience.
 Staff regularly share their research with the general public. O’Rourke, Cowie, Wootton, Stewart,
 Kennedy, Munt, amongst others, have all appeared on BBC Radio Four’s In Our Time and
 Renwick has participated in BBC’s ‘Thinking Allowed’ and ‘Free Thinking’. Staff have also
 appeared in or shared their research with various TV programmes, including the BBC’s Who Do



                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 You Think You Are? And Greig and Roodhouse, amongst others, regularly write for journals
 that target interested lay audiences, such as BBC History Magazine and History Today.
 Research is also routinely shared with the wider public through national and international media
 outlets. For example, Mitelpunkt’s work on US-Israeli relations has appeared in the Washington
 Post (2018), and in 2019 Rees-Jones’ Northern Way project featured extensively in national and
 international media.
 The unit contributes significantly to public engagement in the city of York, including the
 University’s own Yornight and Festival of Ideas. The BBC History Weekend, held annually in
 York, features staff and PhD students alongside external speakers. For the Festival of Ideas, the
 Department participates in an annual “Date with History”, a series of themed talks, involving the
 French Embassy, Alliance Française de York and Royal Historical Society. The Department’s
 annual Aylmer lecture is also part of the Festival line-up, featuring some of the world’s leading
 historians. The 2018 Festival hosted one of the BBC Reith Lectures, delivered by historian
 Margaret MacMillan. Broadcast by BBC Radio 4 and the World Service, this has reached over
 11 million listeners.
 Finally, the Department contributes significantly to public debate through trade publications (e.g.
 Renwick, Greig, Bound Alberti, Wootton and Sharpe) and events at literary festivals. And various
 staff use podcasts and blogs to showcase their research (e.g. Halsall and Renwick).


 4.3. Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline and research base.
 We have not only made significant contributions to the discipline through the research support
 we offer to ECRs on open and fixed-term contracts, but also by serving as members of
 executive committees of learned societies. Altink, for instance, has led on the response of the
 Social History Society (SHS) to all REF2021 consultations, while Benesch as a member of the
 RHS’s council has contributed to efforts to understand and promote the diversification of the
 profession. And staff have made significant contributions to the wider research culture in the UK
 during this cycle. Firstly, as hosts of York Medieval Press (General Editor, Biller), which
 publishes 5-10 books annually. Secondly, as editors of leading journals and book series in the
 field: Twentieth Century British History (Black); Medical History, CUP’s series Global Health
 Histories and Orient BlackSwan’s Perspectives in South Asian History (Bhattacharya);
 Women’s History Review (Altink);Journal of Early Modern History (Ditchfield); Historical
 Research (Taylor), History of the Human Sciences (Renwick); Routledge Studies in Pilgrimage,
 Religious Travel and Tourism (Dyas), Cambridge World History of Violence (Carroll); and as
 members of editorial boards including CUP’s Global Health History (Bhattacharya) and Gender
 and History (De Groot and Rees-Jones); Parliamentary History and History (Stewart); Catholic
 Historical Review, Church History, Archivum historicum societatis Iesu, Annuarium historiae
 pontificiae (Ditchfield); Acta Histriae (Carroll). Thirdly, they have served on various peer-review
 grant committees: the AHRC peer review college (Alberts, Altink, Benesch, Heinzen); ESRC
 grants panel (M. Taylor); Wellcome Trust Interview Committee (Biller); British Academy
 Research Awards committee (Biller); and the Research Foundation Flanders (Ditchfield). In
 addition, many staff, including ECRs, regularly review applications for the AHRC and ESRC, the
 Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research, Commonwealth Scholarship Commission,
 Leverhulme Trust, Wellcome trust, and the European Research Council. Third, they have
 undertaken executive roles on learned societies and other committees: director of the Institute
 of Historical Research (M. Taylor till 2014); elected member Royal Historical Society Council
 (Benesch); secretary Social History Society (Altink); deputy chair medieval studies British
 Academy (Biller); Council Member and Trustee, Society of Antiquaries of London (Cooper); Vice
 President, Society of the Study of Medieval Languages and Literatures (Watson); UK historic
 Towns Trust (Rees-Jones); President, Ecclesiastical History Society, 2015-16 (Ditchfield);
 Trustee of the Scottish Historical Review Trust (Stewart).
 Prizes and Fellowships held by staff and invited lectures further indicate the wider influence
 and recognition by the research base. Carroll (Nancy Roelker prize, twice, 2014 and 2020),
 Moon (2013 Alexander Nove Prize), and Stewart (American Historical Association Morris D.
 Forkosch Prize 2017) all received major prizes for their publications. Moon also received the

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Alexander Nove prize in 2015 in recognition of his long-standing contribution to Russian history
 and Huyssen was the recipient of a British Academy rising star award in 2017. 46% of staff are
 fellows of the Royal Historical Society. In addition, Biller was a fellow of the British Academy.
 Staff have also held prestigious research fellowships including the Royal Historical Society
 Centenary Fellow (Murphy), Davis Centre fellowship at Princeton University (Johnson); Rachel
 Carson Centre (Moon); Distinguished Visiting Fellow, Centre for The Study of France & The
 Francophone World, Toronto (Carroll), Huntington Library, CA (Stewart), and Dartmouth college
 (C. Taylor). And finally, various staff have delivered keynote lectures and presentations both in
 the UK and overseas, including the 2018 John J. Gilbride Memorial Lecture at Johns Hopkins
 University (Jenner); the 2016 Royal Society of Medicine Bynum Lecture (Renwick), the 2018
 Thomas Harriot seminar (Weeks); the 2014 Carlyle Lectures (Wootton); and the Institute for
 Reformation Studies Annual Public Lecture, 2018 and annual Vanderbilt Legal History Lecture,
 2020 (Carroll).




                                                                                           Page 17
