Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Greenwich

 Unit of Assessment: 18 - Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 PRELIMINARY NOTES:

 The Unit of Assessment for Law (UoA18) consists of staff working in the related disciplines of
 Law and Criminology, all of whom are based within the School of Law and Criminology (the
 ‘School’). The staff in the UoA are drawn entirely from that School; none contribute to any other
 UoA. The two terms ‘School’ and ‘UoA’ are, therefore, synonymous in this submission.

 There are 18 SRR staff being submitted, all with published outputs. Seventeen remain within
 the School: Banwell; Diker Vanberg; Fanghanel; Fiddler; Haines; Hunter; Jing Bian; Joliffe;
 Karanasiou; Kilbane; Martin-Ortega; Pawlowski; Pepper; Pillay; Spencer; Stengel; and
 Zampini. One (Osterman) left Greenwich before the end of the REF period, returning to an
 academic post in her native Sweden. In the text below, SRR staff are highlighted in bold (non-
 SRR staff are included in plain text).

 CONTEXT:

 The School is located within the Old Royal Naval College (ORNC), part of a globally renowned
 and architecturally stunning UNESCO world heritage site. The University acquired the ORNC in
 the mid/late-1990s and the School was one of those teaching departments that moved into the
 site, where it has been located ever since. The acquisition of the ORNC was a significant
 milestone in the institution’s transition from Woolwich-based polytechnic to the current University
 of Greenwich. The move signalled a significant institutional shift from what had been principally a
 Teaching institution into one focused increasingly on education supported by Research. While
 that shift commenced in the mid/late-1990s, the Law School’s transition into a significant
 Research environment did not begin until 2012/13, in response to the University’s Strategic Plan
 for 2012-17. Since then, the School has been developing its Research activity and profile,
 including meeting the requirements of the University’s follow-on Strategic Plan for 2017-2022.
 Law is on a clear upwards trajectory and already projecting ahead into the next strategic
 planning phase and REF period.

 Background (REF2014):

 Law and Criminology were submitted to REF2014 (as UoA20) when the outputs of just eight
 staff were submitted. That submission reflected the School’s very strong focus on Teaching but
 its relative inactivity in relation to Research. Indeed, the weakness of its Research profile at that
 time was such that the decision to submit to REF2014 may now seem surprising. Key features
 of the subsequent REF Report are as follows:
      • Submitted Research Outputs: Only 25% were assessed 4*/3*; all others were 2*/1*.
      • Research Impact: Assessed as 80% 1* and 20% U/C.
      • Research Environment: Assessed as 12.5% 2* and 87.5% 1*.
      • PGR Completions: 1
      • Research Funding: Just under £13K

 The majority of staff in 2013/14 were good teachers; the level of Research attainment consistent
 with a serious REF performance was not a priority. Few were PGR qualified, and a significant
 number of the Law academics reflected the traditional Law School reliance on former
 practitioners (solicitors and barristers) to prepare UG Law students for professional qualification.
 Turning the School into a sound Research environment required a different staff profile, only
 achievable over time through investment and staff turnover (redundancy was not seen as
 desirable of practical).


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strategic investment was provided in 2012 to recruit three senior and established researchers
 (two Professors and one Reader). They joined during 2012/13, it being fully appreciated that
 their arrival would not have a major influence on REF2014. It would take significant effort for
 their presence, leadership and influence to have substantial developmental effect. Fortunately,
 they all remain in the School and have provided sound and reliable leadership to date,
 contributing to a profound improvement in Research during the REF period now under review.

 The REF2021 Period:

 The School’s record since 2014 has been one of notable success, with steady and sustained
 improvement in Research. It is important to compare the position today with that in 2014 and to
 note the full trajectory achieved during the current REF period. A focused, steady, sustainable
 and progressive approach to development was adopted that concentrated on six key elements:

    •   Staff recruitment and development: There has been a clear shift in recruitment policy,
        from a dominant focus on the teaching of UG programmes, to one taking fully into
        account the Research qualifications, performance and potential of future staff. All new
        staff must now be PhD qualified (or be about to achieve that) and have a clear Research
        agenda. Two current staff members were registered as PGR students (one with
        Greenwich and one externally), one successfully completing her Greenwich PhD just
        before the PGR census date in 2020 and one about to submit. All SRRs are now
        qualified to supervise and examine PhDs. The University’s academic staff balance is
        50/50 SRR and non-SRR. The School currently has 29 academic staff, two thirds of
        whom are providing input to the School’s REF submission – over twice the number for
        REF2014 and a significantly higher proportion of SRR than the institutional average.
    •   PGR students: The School has a significant and growing PGR community. Since 2014
        (when there was just one completion to report), 21 PGR students have made successful
        progress, with 8 completing by REF deadline. The School has attracted funding for 3
        Vice Chancellor’s Scholarships and further scholarships attached to professorial and
        readership appointments.
    •   Research funding: The School set about attracting research funding through strong
        support of staff efforts to apply, utilising seed funding and annual access to Faculty
        funding. Since 2014, the School has attracted over £360K of Research funding. This
        compares with under £13K in the previous REF period.
    •   Research culture: The School has significantly improved this through internal Research
        related activities, including regular Research Meetings used to discuss Research
        progress, to identify potential collaborations and to highlight and encourage funding
        applications Regular research lunches are a feature, during which staff and PGR
        students have the opportunity to present their ideas in a supportive environment.
    •   Research groups: The Faculty has completely reviewed the structure of research
        groups, and the School has established groupings, and research clusters within them,
        based on substantial staff focus, demonstrable output and clear career development
        support. The groupings created now provide the framework for Research development
        within the School.
    •   Research impact: The School is now continually reviewing and recording the impact of
        Research. This is a positive consequence of REF, which has focused attention on the
        importance of impact – especially given the potential for Law and Criminology to
        influence policy, legal and social developments. Colleagues are seeing the impact of
        Research and are more highly motivated as a result. While substantial impact is covered
        in UoA18’s ICSs, all SRR staff are expected regularly to report (via Appraisal) on the
        impact of their work.

 Although the School’s Research strategy was subject to fundamental review following REF2014,
 four general aims have been maintained throughout, to:
     • Enhance our Research culture through an upgrade in all Research activities, especially
        through researcher interaction and collaboration (encouraged within the Research
        groupings).

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Maintain a focus on Research with potential for societal impact (a good example being
        that focused on human rights monitoring and compliance in the business/corporate
        sector.
    •   Develop effective and comprehensive Research training to support researchers across
        all career stages, but particularly those beginning or returning to research. This has
        been achieved through close cooperation with the University’s Research and Enterprise
        Training Institute (RETI) since its establishment two years ago.
    •   Develop a viable and focused structure to Research activity through the Research
        groups and other clusters.

 The School has been successful in all respects. The 2012/13 strategic investment in Research
 leaders has had a significant positive effect. The environment has benefited from new staff, with
 recruitment now focused on Research potential. The growing community of PGR students is
 resulting in a steady flow of timely completions. The profound increase in Research income has
 had a positive effect on output. The UoA is submitting 43/45 published outputs - the maximum
 allowed given the number of SRR staff. Submitted outputs have been selected from a pool of
 over sixty, all internally assessed as worthy in themselves for inclusion in the submission.
 Compared with 2013/4, the UoA has an embarrassment of riches in terms of published outputs.

 STRUCTURE: LAW AND CRIMINOLOGY RESEARCH GROUPINGS

 The structure of Research within the School is based on formally established Research
 groupings. All SRR staff in Greenwich are required to belong to at least one, with all such
 groups requiring formal review and approval at Faculty and University levels. It is School policy
 that all academic staff (regardless of SRR status) are allocated to at least one grouping. To
 obtain approval, each group and its leading researchers need to demonstrate expertise and a
 sound approach to development and sustainability, the institutional aim being to encourage
 Research activity while avoiding the proliferation of so-called ‘research-centres’ consisting of
 little more than a website based on wishful thinking. All the School’s groups have identified
 leadership, significant involvement of colleagues, an agenda and evidence of outputs, both
 already achieved and intended for the future. They are all dynamic with real substance. Those
 groups now recognised and based within the School, are as follows:

 Business Human Rights and the Environment (BHRE)

 Lead: Professor Olga Martin-Ortega

 The BHRE group includes SRRs Martin-Ortega, Haines, Jing Bian, Hunter, Karanasiou,
 Diker Vanberg and Pillay, as well as non-SRR colleagues Hewitt, Humble and Cinar and those
 PhD students supervised by BHRE members and researching subjects under this heading. In
 addition, the group has academic contributions from the Business School and from the following
 HE institutions: University of Barcelona; Cardenal Herrera University of Valencia; Danish
 Institute of Human Rights; and Wageningen University in the Netherlands. It conducts Research
 on the impact of business activities on human rights and the environment and the role of law and
 policy in making them accountable, including through international criminal law. It includes work
 of potential substantial impact in the policy context. Martin-Ortega has been working on
 Business and Human Rights for some years and has a significant reputation for work in this field,
 including within Government and internationally. Her focus has been on Human Rights
 compliance within supply chains, including through public procurement, as well as in relation to
 the Government’s commitment to end Modern Slavery. Martin-Ortega’s work associated with
 the group is the subject of one of UoA18’s two Impact Case Studies.

 Further research areas include financial regulation and accountability (Jing Bian), corporate
 crime (Hunter), corporate social responsibility (Pillay) and technology (Karanasiou, see LETS
 Lab below) and data protection (Diker Vanberg). Haines’s work on Human Rights at Sea
 (HRAS) now falls within this Research group. Its focus is on such matters as labour rights in the
 shipping industry and slavery in the global fishing industry. The group is now preparing to work

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 closely with the NGO Human Rights at Sea (of which Haines is a Trustee – see
 www.humanrightsatsea.org).

 This group has recently been involved in launching a designated LLM Business, Human Rights
 and the Environment Pathway, which is attracting significant interest. The development of sound
 Masters level provision is regarded as an important stimulus for Research and acts as a
 potential source of PGR registrations. A full review of Masters provision in Law is planned for
 2021 and a further distinct but BHRE related Pathway is being proposed for HRAS. These two
 Pathways are both globally innovative and inspired by the Research being conducted under
 BHRE auspices. These post-graduate taught initiatives provide clear evidence of a direct link
 within the School between Research and Teaching.

 Law, Emerging Technology and Science (LETS Lab)

 Lead: Dr Argyro Karanasiou

 The LETS Lab is an interdisciplinary research cluster involving all the members of BHRE,
 together with academic staff from the School of Computing and Mathematics. Associate
 members hail from King’s College and Goldsmiths (University of London) and from universities
 in Madrid and Berlin. It provides a collaborative hub for scholars sharing expertise or research
 interests in digital aspects of a wider socio-legal substratum, such as: data protection and online
 profiling, digital economy and fintech regulations, blockchain and smart contracts, digital
 forensics, computational propaganda and content regulation, BCI and affective computing etc.
 Emerging technologies, such as Artificial Intelligence, Human-Computer Interfaces and
 Autonomy pose significant legal challenges that transcend disciplinary boundaries and call for
 novel approaches. The LETS Lab attracts academics from various disciplines and backgrounds
 working on tech related aspects, allowing them to gain insight from different perspectives. Most
 importantly it provides a strong network that facilitates and supports synergies in future research
 ventures that have potential to generate impact. This network enhances visibility of digital related
 research across and beyond the University and complements nicely the other activities of
 BHRE. As well as its Associate Members, its evolving network already includes similar research
 groups formed nationally (e.g., the Law, Society and Technology group at LSE, the Centre for
 Information Governance at the University of Sussex, the Centre for Internet Law & Policy at the
 University of Strathclyde), and internationally (e.g., the Information Law Institute/ Privacy
 Research Group at New York University). It makes contributions to policy-making bodies,
 colloquia with scholars, practitioners and industry stakeholders (“LETS Digital Lounge” series),
 and podcasts (“Tech Me Out” series).

 Crime, Law and (In) Security (CLIS)

 Lead: Professor Darrick Jolliffe

 The SRR membership of this Research grouping consists of: Banwell; Diker Vanberg;
 Fanghanel; Fiddler; Hunter; Joliffe, Haines; Martin-Ortega; Osterman; Karanasiou;
 Pawlowski; Spencer; Stengel; Zampini; and Jing Bian.

 This was the first of the current Research groups to be established, early in the REF period. It
 was originally a ‘catch-all’ group that accommodated all Law and Criminology researchers; it was
 rather an amorphous grouping, therefore, that did not reflect true cohesion within the UoA. The
 other groups were formed out of it as colleagues developed similar interests. It still
 accommodates ‘lone’ researchers, however. Pawlowski is a good example. His Research on
 the Land Law of England and Wales has produced a substantial body of work. Another example
 is Haines. whose work on the Protection of Schools in Armed Conflict has resulted in his ICS; it
 involved no collaboration within the UoA (but significant international engagement). Spencer’s
 work on the role of language and translation in international criminal justice and the rights of
 accused has been developed through external collaborations; as has Fiddler’s work on ghost
 criminology.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 By far the most significant body of collaborative Research conducted within CLIS, in terms of
 income generation and outputs, has been led by Joliffe, who coordinated a major funded study
 for the Ministry of Justice, into Deaths in Custody, as well as other prison related studies.

 CLIS will continue to foster collaboration and high-quality research, with a particular ambition for
 Greenwich to be in the forefront of Law/Criminology inter-disciplinary work.

Criminal Justice Collective (CJC)

Lead: Dr Louise Hewitt

This newly formed cluster provides a framework for collaborative Research in all aspects of the
criminal justice system (e.g.: policing; miscarriages of justice; prisons; law of evidence; and
access to justice). Core members currently are Hewitt (who will be equivalent of SRR from 1
Jan 21), Pepper and Stengel. Also associated are Richard Wild within the School, a Greenwich
psychologist and a social scientist from the University of Manchester. Its research is directly
linked to the work of the Innocence Project London (IPL), a highly regarded pro bono
organisation based in the School and led by Hewitt that reviews and investigates cases of
convicted individuals who have maintained their innocence but exhausted the criminal appeals
process.

 Gender, Deviance and Society (GDS)

 Lead: Dr Stacy Banwell, Dr Alex Fanghanel, Dr Camille Stengel and Dr Giulia Zampini

 The School has within it a critical mass of scholars and activists working in fields which intersect
 gender, sexuality, feminist criminology, penology, deviance and issues of social justice. GDS
 has been established to reflect the growth in Research in this area emerging from within the
 School, although it has rapidly attracted input from other Schools as well as scholars working in
 other institutions. The core staff are Banwell, Fanghanel, Stengel and Zampini, with Fiddler,
 Hewitt, Pepper and Kilbane as Associates. Additionally, there are four PGR students, seven
 academic staff from within the Schools of Humanities and Social Sciences, and Design and
 academics from four other institutions (the Universities of Middlesex, Kent and Plymouth and the
 Open University).

 The group promotes critical scholarship about criminological issues related to sex, sexuality and
 gender and brings gendered analyses to broader issues of social justice. It actively involves PGT
 and PGR students in Research practice, holding a dedicated event each year that puts them
 centre stage. It organises book launches, conferences, roundtables, screenings and workshops
 around the themes and research interests of the unit, as well as showcasing work from its
 members. It advances inclusivity though the promotion of intersectional Research rooted in
 principles of critical social justice, which involves promoting interdisciplinary collaboration and
 creativity in scholarship. It also seeks funding for collaborative Research, for running events and
 supporting funding bids for PhD scholarships. All is aimed at underpinning the following focused
 objectives:
     • Aiding staff development and research collaborations across both core and associate
         members leading to internationally recognised, influential research with significant
         impact.
     • Increasing the pool of PG taught and research students, including through the launch of
         a unique Master's programme in 2020/21.
     • Building a national and international profile for the specialist research and studies in
         gender and deviance conducted in Greenwich; and
     • Contributing to high quality implementation of the university’s R&E Strategy.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 GENERAL COMMENTS:

 Changing the School from one focused almost entirely on Teaching at UG level into one that will
 eventually be a fully-fledged Research led School with international reach has been, and
 remains, a challenging task - but it has also been rewarding. Staff have learnt a great deal as
 they have steered the School in that direction. They are confident that they have been largely
 successful but also recognise they have some way still to go in achieving its potential. If the
 trajectory is maintained, however, the School will be well set for notable success.

 POST-REF2021 - AMBITION

 Further success requires substantial investment coupled with increasing income from both
 Teaching and Research to fund the expansion and enhancement of the School’s SRR rated
 staff. This submission is extremely important to the School as it will serve as an indicator of
 progress since REF2014 and provide a useful set of pointers as to where the School needs to
 take Research during the next REF period.

 Moving beyond 2021, we are optimistic about the future, and expect the School to be seen
 increasingly as potentially world class in an extraordinary location capable of competing with the
 best schools in London and nationally. It is the School’s ambition to make it into the higher-
 ranked UK law schools, attracting both high quality staff and students. This is a notably
 ambitious objective, but it is considered realistic, nevertheless. While this is a work in progress,
 the noteworthy and substantial raising of the School’s Research performance in the past six
 years augurs well for the longer-term future.

 2. People

 In the run up to REF2014, the then Dean of the School had reflected on its sound performance
 in the teaching of Law and Criminology. It had been consistently rated as one of the highest-
 ranking Law Schools in terms of UG student satisfaction in London and had a very respectable
 showing in that respect nationally. Believing this provided a sound foundation for the
 development of a Research profile into the future, she was influential in the University’s strategic
 planning round and her vision was consistent with the University’s Strategic Plan for 2012-17.
 That paved the way for the institutional investment necessary to recruit the three experienced
 researchers already mentioned above. The strategic aim was to develop a sound Research
 environment within the Law School, an aim that has subsequently been honoured.

 The influence of the three experienced research staff recruited for that purpose was not
 expected to be immediately transformative in relation to REF2014 (although, obviously, they
 were submitted). Their role was to be longer term: progressively to influence the development
 and transformation of the School over time, review the Research strategy and modify as
 necessary the School’s Research structure, motivate and mentor colleagues, and nurture a
 vibrant Research environment. All three have proved committed to achieving Research
 success; all remain in the School and have worked well and closely together to get the School to
 where it is today. One (Joliffe) is now the first Research active Head of School (the former
 Head having accepted a post in another institution). He has also led the charge profoundly to
 increase Research funding. The other two (Haines and Martin Ortega) have been overseeing
 Research development, managing the growing PGR activities within the School and are
 themselves responsible for the two important Impact Case Studies (ICSs) submitted for this
 REF. They have obviously been supported, increasingly, by other colleagues as the overall staff
 profile has shifted in favour of Research. The leading researchers now at the centre of the
 School’s Research development include Hunter (Research Ethics), Fiddler (PGR
 Management); Karanasiou (PGR Recruitment) and the Research group and collective leads.
 Haines also occupies a key Research related role at Faculty level, as Chair of the Research
 Degrees Committee. Research within the School is well led and administered.

 Fundamentally important for success has been staffing policy post-REF2014. Prior to that, staff

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 had been recruited over time purely for their potential contribution to Teaching, essentially at UG
 level. Research was not a priority, and the majority of academic staff were neither PhD qualified
 nor research active. A gradual but inexorable shift towards the recruitment of research active
 staff was implemented but in a way that would not compromise Teaching at UG level. At no
 point was any redundancy policy considered appropriate and the shift towards Research active
 staff has been achieved principally through natural staff turnover - although a University wide
 Voluntary Severance scheme in 2017/18 certainly helped release funding for new research
 focused staff. Overall, since 2014, over half of School staff have changed and this has allowed
 for a significantly altered Research/Teaching profile/balance within the School.

 Staff development is indicated by SRRs gaining promotion. Successes include Martin-Ortega
 to Professor and two criminologists (Fiddler and Hunter) to Reader/Associate Professor (the
 first criminologists ever to hold this level of post at Greenwich); Banwell has also been
 advanced to Principal Lecturer in Criminology,

 The School currently has three ECRs in post, two of whom are SRR and being submitted to this
 REF (Pepper and Stengel). ECRs are provided with appropriate additional support and
 mentoring to foster their Research careers. They are each allocated to Research groups with a
 named mentor, teaching relief is provided in the context of the School’s Balanced Academic
 Workload and they are provided with financial support to encourage either the completion of a
 research article or a pump-priming Research study, both at School level and as part of the
 Faculty ECRs’ Forum. There is a training programme provided by RETI (the University’s
 Research and Enterprise Training Institute) to support the development of PGR supervision
 skills.

 Bearing in mind that at REF2014, the School’s PGR performance was virtually non-existent, with
 no PhD completions at all in that reporting period, the development of the student research
 community has been one of the School’s great successes. The process of growing this
 community commenced with the three experienced researchers recruited in 2012/13 being
 awarded funds for Vice Chancellor’s scholarships; they also attracted other PGR applicants. A
 deliberate policy of recruiting quality PGRs was adopted, with a particular emphasis on only
 recruiting into subject areas in which the School was clearly able to provide sound supervision.
 Today, there is a thriving postgraduate research student community consisting currently of 13
 MPhil/PhD students, with others now in the registration pipeline. They are an important part of
 the School’s Research community and participate in regular activities with Research active staff,
 and also have access to Research funding to support their work. They benefit from highly
 trained supervisory teams, usually consisting of three Research active members of the School,
 two of whom will be experienced and established researchers while the third will typically be an
 ECR or inexperienced supervisor ‘learning the trade’. Comprehensive training support is
 provided by the University and the Faculty.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion are important parts of the University’s and the School’s ethos,
 Research strategy and agenda. In line with the Institution’s Athena standing, the majority of
 SRRs are women and women also lead all but one of the five Research groups and clusters.
 Minority ethnic representation has improved over the course of the REF period and the School is
 a positive environment for BME staff. One significant feature of the School is its broad
 international staff profile. Although there has been no focused strategic approach driving the
 recruitment of international researchers, a third of School staff now hail originally from outside
 the UK from Canada, Spain, Greece, Sweden, Turkey, the United States, Italy, Mauritius, and
 Serbia. Prior to 2014, the staff were almost all UK nationals, consistent with the need principally
 to teach UK legal subjects to UGs. Today, the Head of School and senior Criminologist (Joliffe)
 is Canadian, and one of three Law Professors (Martin-Ortega) is Spanish. Another, although a
 UK national, was recruited from Geneva (Haines). The international profile of the School staff
 also has clear benefits in terms of the international ethos that has been created. This is clearly of
 influence in relation to the development of international collaboration and will significantly benefit
 the School in relation to the bidding for funds going forward – including, hopefully, to the EU
 (although Brexit will reduce potential for this). Finally, Several staff have agreed flexible working

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 arrangements and the University is supportive of shared parental leave on full pay, both of which
 School staff have made use of. The School’s ECRs have benefited from the nation-wide Aurora
 programme to promote female leadership, with one having completed it and another currently on
 the programme.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 INCOME:

 The UoA’s Research and Enterprise related income (including for PGR funding) over the REF
 period consisted of £362,758 of Research grant funding, £45,270 of Enterprise funding and
 approximately £340,000 equivalent of effective funding for PGR students (including funding for 3
 x VC Scholarships, 3 x PGR scholarships associated with Professorial and Readership
 appointments, and a partial scholarship provided by Chinese funds for a PhD student inherited
 by the School from the former Greenwich Maritime Institute). The funding for PGR students had
 a significant effect on the development of the School’s PGR community. All UoAs also benefited
 from a share of Faculty funding for PGR activities, the Faculty total of which was £285,000 (there
 is no precise figure for the amount allocated that can be traced for UoA18 use).

 Clearly, the contrast with the amount of income identified in 2014 – just under £13,000 - is stark.
 From a situation in which Research related funding was negligible, the School has moved into a
 very positive position.

 INFRASTRUCTURE:

 In line with the University’s Strategic Plan, support infrastructure for Research has been
 substantially enhanced since REF2014, with approaching £100 million invested for that purpose.
 Direct support for researchers developing funding bids and requiring general advice on
 Research and Enterprise activities is provided by Greenwich Research and Enterprise (GRE).
 Training support for researchers is coordinated and provided by RETI, which not only supports
 staff but also administers the PGR processes within the University, conducting training for both
 staff and PGR students. RETI is a particularly important development, having been founded in
 2017 and fully functioning since the 2017/18 academic year. Its existence has greatly improved
 the School’s ability to develop and maintain its PGR community. At Faculty level, a team
 working under the Director of Research provides administrative support for Research activity
 and the School has direct support provided by an individual in that team. This general support
 did not exist in 2014 and the service it provides has to be regarded as a vitally important part of
 the story of improving Law and Criminology Research.

 During the latter stages of the REF period, both GRE and RETI were re-located in the
 Greenwich Powerhouse, a listed building that has undergone a £1.2 million refurbishment. This
 is also home to the University’s student, graduate and staff enterprise space, known as the
 ‘Generator’. The Powerhouse has small meeting and social spaces for training, seminars,
 writing retreats, and engagement with external partners. It is also where the majority of PhD
 vivas are now conducted, with online conference facilities for use when required.

 A short walk from the Powerhouse is the new £81 million Stockwell Street library. This has
 ample reference and study space for research staff and students, including dedicated office
 space and bookable small meeting rooms for PGR students. This is a ‘state of the art’ library
 with all online services available; indeed, it has one of the largest collections of electronic books
 and journals in the UK. In this digital age, enhancing and expanding library resources for Law is
 far easier than once it was, when physical collections were difficult to acquire, and good Law
 libraries were by necessity those that had existed for many years. The new library has been
 able to put in place the most advanced digital provision and it benefits from a designated
 member of the Library staff who deals with all Law and Criminology requirements. Despite the
 advanced digital provision, all staff and PGR students in the School are also provided with

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 access to the Library of the Institute of Advanced Legal Studies in London, a first-class library of
 particular value to law researchers. The School’s own published outputs are all maintained on
 the University’s digital archive (GALA), the gateway to open access publications.

 Finally, in relation to institutional infrastructure, the School is located a short walk from the
 recently renovated Dreadnaught Building. In the 18th century, this listed building was established
 as the medical facility, when the Greenwich site was the home for Naval Pensioners (the
 equivalent of the Chelsea Hospital that still exists today for Army Pensioners). An investment of
 £30 million has transformed this into a modernised, comfortable space with social and catering
 facilities as well as a gym for use by staff and students. This recently completed facility has
 transformed the student experience within the maritime campus. Greenwich, through its
 substantial institutional investment in essential modern infrastructure, is being transformed into a
 most attractive location for both staff and students. The wider Greenwich location, with its
 historic maritime connections and its beautiful parkland up to the Greenwich Observatory is by
 far the most attractive university setting in London today. It is a perfect location for developing a
 substantial Research Environment – its physical transformation during the period under review
 has been profound. Hardly any other Law Schools in the UK can boast a more attractive setting.

 SCHOOL FACILITIES:

 The School and all staff offices are located in Queen Mary Court, one of the four courts designed
 by Sir Christopher Wren now forming a part of the central feature of the Greenwich UNESCO
 World Heritage Site. This is a Grade 1 Listed Building, and it is a privilege for staff and students
 to work here. The profoundly historic character of the site has significantly influenced the
 University’s approach to infrastructure development elsewhere around the campus. The result is
 a Law School in a stunning globally recognised location that is now benefiting from substantial
 infrastructure developments undertaken during the past five years.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 OUTPUTS (CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE RESEARCH BASE):

 As already noted above, there has been a substantial increase in both the number and quality of
 publications produced within the School since Law was submitted to REF2014. The UoA is
 submitting 43/45 published outputs but has more than a dozen more of submittable quality ‘in
 reserve’. Compared to the situation in 2014, when it was struggling to identify a suitable number
 of good quality outputs, the School has an abundance of publications from which to select the
 numbers allowed/required.

 COLLABORATION AND NETWORKS:

 As reflected in the accounts about Research groups, the REF period has witnessed some
 significant collaboration between colleagues within the School and with researchers in other
 institutions, both nationally and internationally. While the outputs of some other disciplines are
 frequently joint/multi-authored, academic lawyers, in particular, are less inclined to collaborate in
 this way, with many never doing so. Nevertheless, over 15% of the UoA’s published outputs
 being submitted have more than a single author and collaboration is also evidenced within the
 School by the development of the Research groups, with scholars increasingly working together
 in closely related areas, both within the School and with colleagues in other institutions
 (including internationally). All of the SRRs in the School maintain significant networks of
 academic and professional colleagues. The School’s collective network is growing, and its
 reputation is being substantially enhanced as a result. A good deal of international collaboration
 through networking is a direct result of the international profile of the School’s staff - but it is not
 a result of this alone. A substantial amount of the research undertaken has an international
 relevance and this leads naturally to wide engagement with colleagues globally. A notable
 example of an SRR whose international network is extensive is Martin-Ortega. She has set up,
 as a founding member and coordinator, several academic networks. These include those
 generated through her involvement as: a founding member and Steering Committee member, of

                                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the International learning lab on Procurement and Human Rights (member organisations include
 Georgetown University (USA), International Roundtable on Corporate Accountability (USA);
 Danish Institute on Human Rights (Denmark) and the University of Nottingham (UK); a member
 of the Good Electronics Network, leading its Transparency Working Group; a founding member
 and Advisory Board member of the Business, Conflict and Human Rights Network; a founding
 member and on the Executive Committee of the London Transitional Justice Network. Since
 2010; as founding member of the European Society of International Law Interest Group on
 Business and Human Rights (Chair, 2011-2015); and as a member of the International Law
 Association working group on Business and Human Rights (which supports the work of the
 United Nations Working Group on Business and Human Rights). She also runs the podcast The
 Rights of Others, discussing corporate accountability issues with leading academics, advocates
 and lawyers. These networks are especially important in the context of the BHRE Research
 group (see above and also the Impact Case Study detailed below).

 SOCIETAL IMPACT (INCLUDING IMPACT CASE STUDIES):

 Research undertaken within the School is now having considerable impact, both nationally and
 internationally. There is no comparison with the level of impact at the time of the previous REF
 submission: then it was negligible; now it is substantial. This is formally presented now through
 the two Impact Case Studies (ICSs) that are part of this submission, but it is also much in
 evidence in relation to other Research being conducted in the School. The most notable impact
 has been in three areas: Business and Human Rights; the Protection of Education in Conflict
 Zones; and in relation to aspects of the Prison Population within the UK. It is worth briefly saying
 something about each.

 Business and Human Rights (ICS led by Martin-Ortega): This effort produces world leading
 research on public procurement and human rights. Martin-Ortega has contributed to policy and
 normative development at EU level (drafting the EU Parliament Policy Brief on Options for
 Human Rights Due Diligence Legislation, as well as informing European Parliament debates); at
 national level (advising the Home Office and House of Lords); within the Organisation for
 Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), drafting procurement guidance on combating
 human trafficking and labour exploitation in OSCE supply chains, as well as training the
 organisation’s procurement and programmatic personnel; and for the International Labour
 Organisation, drafting policy guidance on fair labour recruitment and public procurement. Martin-
 Ortega also works with UK public bodies to increase their human rights due diligence efforts in
 their supply chains. This includes providing professional guidance and training with the Local
 Government Association, several university consortia and the Higher Education Procurement
 Association, and civil society organisations, supporting their substantive work (Electronics
 Watch) and advocacy efforts (Fair Trade Advocacy Office and Corporate Justice UK). She has
 also established a series of international networks which bring together academics, practitioners
 and policy makers. These are the International Learning Lab on Procurement and Human
 Rights - with over 50 participant public organisations around the world - and the Business,
 Conflict and Human Rights Network, which works with the United Nations Working Group on
 Business and Human Rights.

 The Protection of Education in Conflict Zones (ICS led by Haines): This work has had impact
 at the very highest international level – within the United Nations Security Council and General
 Assembly, both of which have debated the output of the Research and development Haines led
 on the production of International Guidelines on the Military Use of Schools. Those Guidelines,
 which are the core of the Safe Schools Declaration, have (as of 31 December 2020) been
 adopted by 106 states globally, including many that have recently experienced or continue to
 experience armed conflict. The then Foreign Secretary announced UK endorsement during the
 Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting in London in 2018. Haines carried out this pro
 bono work from 2012 as Legal and Military Consultant to the Global Coalition to Protect
 Education from Attack (a mix of civil-society NGOs and UN agencies) The impact so far has
 been considerable and continues to grow. Most recently, the UN, through an unopposed
 General Assembly Resolution, declared that in future the 9 September would be designated the

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 annual International Day for the Protection of Education from Attack. As a direct result of his
 work in this area, Haines was invited to Chair Save the Children International’s Civil-Military
 Engagement Advisory Board. Much of his network that enabled this work is focused on Geneva,
 where he worked prior to joining Greenwich in 2012. His international academic, professional,
 governmental and civil-society networks are substantial, most of which are reflected in his
 Linkedin profile (listing over 1,000 connections) a substantial number resulting from his work in
 this area.

 Body of work focused on the UK Prison Population and related issues: Conducted within
 the CLIS Research group, a strong team of Criminologists led by Joliffe has been the most
 successful group within the School at obtaining research funding, having obtained 10 separate
 grants from external agencies since 2015. This body of work has had substantial impact to put
 together with the two ICSs as demonstrating the substantial benefit of work being carried out in
 the School. The outputs of this group have included:
     • HMPPS/NOMS (Evaluating Equality Advocates delivered by the Zahid Mubarak Trust;
         Jolliffe, Addressing Use of Force Amongst Black and Muslim Prisoners.
     • Jolliffe, Hunter, Adamson, The Runnymede Trust and Ipswich and Suffolk Council for
         Racial Equality (ISCRE); Addressing Disproportionality of BAME Prisoners,
     • Jolliffe, Banwell, Adamson, The Runnymede Trust, ISCRE, Evaluating the Impact of the
         London Pathway Project,
     • Jolliffe, The Costs of Life-Course Offenders, Jolliffe),
     • The Independent Advisory Panel on Deaths in Custody (Research and Evaluation
         Support, Jolliffe, Fiddler),
     • The National Health Service Justice (Evaluating a Wellbeing Intervention in Yarl’s Wood
         Immigration Removal Centre, Jolliffe),
     • the Equality and Human Rights Commission (Evaluating the Impact of Race Equality
         Training, Jolliffe),
     • The Lloyds Foundation (Evaluation of Initiatives to Reduce Discrimination in Prison
         delivered by Ipswich and Suffolk Council for Racial Equality, Jolliffe) and
     • The Youth Endowment Fund (Evaluating Functional Family Therapy-Gang delivered by
         Family Psychological Mutual, Jolliffe).
             o These, and the wider activities of the CLIS group have been disseminated in
                 conferences they have hosted:
             o ‘Have Prisons Become A Dangerous Place? Disproportionality, Safety and
                 Mental Health in British Prisons (19/10/17).
             o Improving Outcomes for BAME Prisoners to Improve Equality, Safety and
                 Decency in Prison (05/13/15), jointly with The Runnymede Trust and ISCRE.
                 Contributors included: Steve Reed (MP Croydon North), Steve Gillan (Prison
                 Officers Association), Deborah Coles (Inquest), Frances Crook (Prison Reform
                 Trust), Nick Hardwick (Former Chief Prison Inspector). This work resulted in
                 members of the CLIS group being invited to contribute to the development of
                 Seni’s Law, put forward by Steve Reed (https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-
                 london-41857631; https://www.stevereedmp.co.uk/2018/11/13/senis-law-
                 approved-by-parliament/),
             o and to contribute to campaigns to reduce deaths in custody
                 (https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2017/jul/02/the-independent-report-into-
                 police-custody-deaths-must-not-be-delayed-any-longer?CMP=share_btn_tw) and
                 the treatment of young Black and Muslim men in Prison
                 (https://www.theguardian.com/society/2017/oct/19/black-and-muslim-prisoners-
                 suffer-worse-treatment-study-finds) as well as contributing to internal government
                 working groups such as the Use of Force Task Group (HMPPS, March 2018).
                 This body of work has had substantial impact and represents what would be the
                 School’s third ICS if it were required.

 Additional impact and the contributions of SRR staff within the School, is best summarized under
 Research group headings, as follows:


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 BHRE (including LETS Lab): A new strand of work is emerging in the field of Human Rights at
 Sea, with Haines leading the development of the Geneva Declaration on Human Rights at Sea
 in collaboration with colleagues in the Universities of Bristol, Basel and Milano-Bicocca and on
 behalf of the NGO Human Rights at Sea (of which he is a Trustee). This work chimes well with
 his membership of the Editorial Board of the journal Marine Policy. A significant distinct body of
 work produced from within the LETS Lab cluster is also beginning to generate impact potential.
 This cluster is already making progress and has a network of national and international
 collaborators and interlocutors (e.g.at Yale Law, LSE, Northeastern University, Queen Mary
 University, Sciences Po Paris, Vrije Universiteit Brussels). Its Digital Lounge series of
 seminars/workshops that commenced in 2019 has already attracted speakers from institutions in
 the UK, Germany and the US. It has significant potential going into the forthcoming REF period.
 Karanasiou’s work has earned her visiting research affiliations with Yale Law School (ISP
 Alumna), NYU Law (ILI Alumna 2016), Harvard Law (affiliate Faculty staff 2014), and
 Complutense Madrid (ITC). She is actively involved in several technology policy and related
 initiatives in the UK and worldwide, including those concerned with the governance of AI, one of
 her key research interests. She has contributed several invited expert insights, most notably for
 the Equality and Human Rights Commission (AI in recruitment – 2020), the Chatham House
 (Internet Governance – 2018), the US Air Force (AI & Augmented Cognition – 2018), the Royal
 Society (Machine Learning – 2016), and the Electronic Frontiers Foundation (Free Trade
 Agreements and Human Rights – 2016). Furthermore, she has served as a contracted
 consultant for the Council of Europe (regional South Eastern Europe expert in Media), and as an
 OSCE expert for Online Media. In recognition, Karanasiou has been appointed to a Privacy-by-
 Design Ambassadorship by the Information Commissioner in Ontario, Canada, and has twice
 been awarded the Internet Society IGF Ambassadorship, in 2013 (Indonesia) and in 2015
 (Brazil). She has also served as an expert evaluator for the Swiss National Foundation and for
 the Newbreed doctoral programme in Sweden and as an expert reviewer for OUP’s Information
 Technology & Communications Law series.

 CLIS Within the group, Haines is a long-standing military and academic specialist in IHL/LOAC,
 especially in the sub field of law regulating the naval hostilities. He has been involved in the
 review process for the San Remo Manual on the Law of Armed Conflict Applicable at Sea
 through his invited engagement with colleagues at the Stockton Center of the US Naval War
 College in Newport, Rhode Island. Distinguished in this field, he is the current President of the
 UK Group of the International Society for Military Law and the Law of War, an annual speaker at
 the NATO Maritime Operational Law Conference, and on the Editorial Advisory Board of
 Springer’s book series on Maritime Operational Law. Along with colleagues at Kansas State
 University and Goldsmiths, University of London, Fiddler has developed a key new sub-
 discipline of Ghost Criminology and is leading on an edited collection with NYUP. Its growing
 conceptual impact and influence can be demonstrated by dedicated panels at major international
 conferences (ASC 2018, 2019 and ESC 2018, 2020). His work within the discipline is
 recognized by membership on the International Advisory Editorial Board for Crime Media Culture
 (2009 – ongoing) and the Editorial Board of the Prison Service Journal (2009 – ongoing), as well
 as the Editorial Board of Howard Journal of Criminal Justice (2011-16). Pawlowski’s work has
 influenced law reform and policy in several key fields of land law, landlord and tenant law and
 equity and trusts. His published output has also informed and stimulated practitioner debate in
 the transmissibility of possessory rights in the context of adverse possession, competing equities
 arising in proprietary estoppel claims, landlord’s choice of remedies on tenant abandonment and
 the statutory conversion of perpetually renewable leases into 2000-year terms under the Law of
 Property Act 1922. Diker Vanberg, a recognised authority on data protection law, UK
 competition law, digital markets and online platforms, has been cited widely by academic and
 legal practitioners in the UK and globally, including for example by Facebook Vice President Erin
 Egan in the Facebook policy paper ‘Chartering a Way Forward: Data Portability and Privacy’.
 She was invited to participate in a Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sports
 consultation, sharing input on the right to data portability and its enforcement in the UK, being
 subsequently cited in the seminal report on ‘Data Mobility: The personal data portability growth
 opportunity for the UK economy’. Kilbane’s work is on malicious contamination, product

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 tampering and criminal poisoning, and on criminal threat assessment. She has been invited to
 deliver sessions for both the Association of European Threat Assessment Professionals
 (AETAP) and the African Association of Threat Assessment Professionals (AfATAP) and
 advised professionals law enforcement agencies in various countries. She has also led a project
 with colleagues in the School of Computing and Mathematical Sciences, applying machine
 learning techniques to threat assessment scenarios - believed to be the first project of its
 kind.

 GDS: This most recently approved Research group is already producing notable outputs with
 associated impact. Space precludes a full account of this, but the following provides a flavour of
 success so far and potential for the future. Research carried out by the group has been cited by
 the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, specifically the ‘Women and Drugs - Drug use,
 Drug Supply and their Consequences’ report. In 2017 Banwell led a project on access to safe
 abortion for survivors of wartime rape and sexual violence, the results of which were
 disseminated at the annual European Network on Gender and Violence conference, through an
 invited lecture at the Università degli Studi di Milano-Bicocca, and through a paper published in
 Third World Quarterly, accessible here. Banwell is also a member of an International Consortium
 of Researchers, known as the Global Gag Rule Research Working Group and in 2019, she
 secured funding to develop research partnerships with the United Nations Population Fund and
 Population Action International based in Washington DC. (Results of both of her projects are
 included in her monograph Gender and the Violence(s) of War and Armed Conflict: More
 Dangerous to be a Woman? which is submitted as an output. Zampini has been leading the
 project ‘People and Dancefloors: Narratives of Drug-Taking’ since November 2018, with a
 documentary film released in November 2020 (available to watch here.) In July 2020, Stengel
 submitted a response to the Government’s Human Rights Joint Committee call for
 evidence (available here) and, in November 2020 presented her research during an international
 webinar series organised by the Violence Against Women and Girls Research Network. A
 recording of the presentation is available here. In March 2020, Fanghanel won a prize for a
 paper based on consent and BDSM communities. As a result, she has been invited to sit on the
 Community-Academic Consortium for Research on Alternative Sexualities. In this capacity she
 has acted as advisor to the University of Colorado at Boulder and the Sacramento California
 queer leather community and In August 2019 was invited to provide expert witness testimony in
 a criminal case based on her expertise in the field of consent and BDSM. Fanghanel has also
 acted in a consultancy capacity to the National Union of Students, the British Pregnancy
 Advisory Service and Channel 5 on matters relating to her research and publications.




                                                                                            Page 13
