Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Bristol

 Unit of Assessment: 18: Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Strategic Context
Part of the Faculty of Social Sciences and Law (FSSL), the University of Bristol Law School is
committed to producing world-class legal scholarship which addresses important societal needs
and the regulatory and governance challenges of our times. Recognising that these challenges are
complex and multi-dimensional, and involve issues of law and social justice in a rapidly evolving
political, economic, and social environment, the School supports a diverse community of scholars
at all career-stages, deploying a wide range of approaches and methods to advance knowledge in
the discipline. Legal scholarship of all kinds is supported: doctrinal, socio-legal, critical, and inter-
disciplinary.

In REF2014, the School submitted over 90% of its academic staff and ranked fifth on research
intensity, with 77.5% of outputs ranked 3* or 4*. The inclusiveness of our submission reflected our
egalitarian and collegial research culture. Since then, the University has invested in the School,
supporting an ambitious growth plan: we submitted 39 FTE staff in REF2014 and are submitting
63.5 FTE in REF2021. Growth has been supported by a significant expansion of our physical
footprint into a beautiful Grade II listed building in Berkeley Square (BSQ), through a £7.4 million
University-funded refurbishment project (https://www.beardconstruction.co.uk/case-study/berkeley-
square-university-of-bristol).

During the current REF period, the School has strengthened its intellectual infrastructure,
promoting the expansion and development of its externally-facing specialist Research Centres to
supplement its five Primary Units (PUs), broad, internally-facing subject-based research groupings
which act as intellectual homes for colleagues (see below). Centre development has built upon the
foundations provided by the longstanding Human Rights Implementation Centre (HRIC) and the
Centre for Law and Enterprise (CLE). There are now highly active Centres in Health, Law and
Society (CHLS) and Law at Work (CLAW), and further new Centres have recently been created
(see below). Our Centres have provided a focus for launching specialist LLM programmes,
creating a strong community of PhD researchers, generating policy impact, and stimulating
research grants, collaborative research, conferences and workshops.

The work of our Centres aligns with the University’s prioritisation of inter-disciplinarity and is
supported by the University’s Research Institutes (URIs) and Specialist Research Institutes (SRIs):
see Institutional Environment Statement: REF5a. Colleagues in CHLS and CLAW, for example,
have worked on the intersections between migration, work, and health with the Jean Golding
Institute (JGI: specialising in data science), the Elizabeth Blackwell Institute (EBI: organising
collaborative research in health across the University, supported by the Wellcome Trust) and
Migration Mobilities Bristol (MMB). A number of colleagues have also started working with the
Bristol Digital Futures Institute (BDFI). Launched in 2019, BDFI is a URI which is supported by a
£100 million award: £29 million from the Research Partnership Investment Fund, supplemented by
£71 million from 27 business partners, including BT, Dyson, BBC, Airbus and Aardman. BDFI
integrates social science and engineering perspectives on the development and use of new
technologies, and its work intersects with the work of the Law School Centres in areas such as

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
regulating gig work, the use of personalised genetic information to design health interventions, the
rise of algorithms in public and private decision-making and the implications of all of these for
personal privacy. BDFI will eventually be housed in the University’s new Temple Quarter
Enterprise Campus (TQEC), an ambitious civic regeneration in central Bristol (REF5a).

Strategic Objectives
The main goals of our research strategy during this REF period (evidenced in this Environment
Statement in the indicated sections) have been:
   •   Maintaining a research environment that supports and facilitates high-quality legal research
       of all kinds (Section 1)
   •   Embedding impact and engagement in our culture as core aspects of our research activity
       (Sections 1 and 4)
   •   Developing strong School-based Research Centres that build upon and extend existing
       research strengths (Sections 1 and 2)
   •   Delivering an ambitious recruitment strategy to support growth and maintaining a good
       balance between senior and Early Career Researcher (ECR) appointments to facilitate
       intergenerational collaboration and mentoring (Section 2)
   •   Ensuring, in line with University policy, a positive staff:student ratio benchmarked against
       the Russell Group mean and commensurate with sustainable workloads (Section 2)
   •   Increasing our research grant income (Section 3)
   •   Promoting the highest standards of research integrity and a culture of open research
       (Section 1)
   •   Using the Law School’s new physical space in BSQ to ensure the maintenance of single
       offices for academics; provide enhanced shared work and recreational space for our
       Postgraduate Research (PGR) community, and create new conference and workshop
       space for academic events (Section 3).


Research Support and Management
The School has a highly collegial, liberal and inclusive research culture and provides colleagues
with a highly supportive research environment. School-level support for research supplements the
excellent and comprehensive support provided by the University’s central Research and Enterprise
Development (RED) team (REF5a).

Overall responsibility for research lies with the Head of School (HOS), supported by the School
Research Director (SRD), the Deputy Research Director, and REF Lead. A Research and Impact
Committee (RAIC) exercises strategic oversight.

The two basic units of research organisation in the school are our PUs and Research Centres. The
five PUs are broad-based research clusters (in private and commercial law; crime, medical and
family; law and governance; international, EU and human rights; legal theory and socio-legal); all
academic staff and research students are members. Led by senior Professors, the PUs not only
provide intellectual homes for colleagues but are used to provide mentoring and career
development advice.

The School supports a generous research leave policy of one full year for every three years
engaged in teaching and administration. This allows the time and head-space needed for ECRs to
turn PhDs into books and more experienced researchers to complete high-quality outputs.

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
The Law School provides a range of resources to support the work of its academics. Normally, all
colleagues have a personal research allowance of £1500 pa, designed to encourage national and
international conference attendance and collaboration. The Law School also has a Strategic
Impact Fund (see below) and Strategic Research Fund (SRF: £20,000 pa) which provide financial
support for initiatives that further the School’s overall research strategy. COVID has seen personal
research allowances temporarily suspended but we have continued to support research with our
SRF. A substantial Research Grant Capture Fund (£28,000 pa) provided by the Faculty (FSSL)
and managed by the School provides administrative and research assistance, as well as some
teaching relief, to those applying for external grant funding. An annual Research Funding
Workshop, supported by RED, further promotes grant capture. The Law School also supports a
prestigious research seminar series, involving external and internal speakers. The Law School
research blog and online ‘Law Research Paper Series’ disseminate our research to a public
audience.

The inclusivity of our research environment is based upon a mainstreamed commitment to
equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI), and a recognition that world-class research thrives in a fair
and transparent workplace.

Research Ethics and Open Research
We follow the institutional policy on Open Access to research publications (REF5a). Research
ethics reviews are conducted at School level, subject to Faculty and University oversight. The Law
School has a Research Ethics Committee (LREC), the rotating membership of which is drawn from
both junior and senior researchers in the School. LREC undertakes prior review of both staff and
postgraduate research involving human subjects, conducts research ethics audits, and develops
and provides advice and annual training for staff and postgraduate research students on ethical
issues relating to legal research. Its most recent project has been liaising with colleagues in the
University’s Research Data Service to incorporate research data management processes into
School research practice to facilitate more effective digital preservation, support open research
data, and enable efficient and ethical data reuse. LREC is supported by a new role of School
Information Rights Officer.

Embedding Impact, Knowledge Exchange and Engagement
Our Impact, Knowledge Exchange and Engagement strategy has six main strands:
       •   Providing strong leadership through our Director and Deputy Director of Impact and
           Knowledge Exchange
       •   Providing bespoke training and awareness-raising for staff (Section 3)
       •   Offering financial support for those developing potential Impact Case Studies through
           our Strategic Impact Fund (£10,000 pa)
       •   Using our Research Centres to support and foster the engagement and impact efforts
           of their members (further, below and Section 4)
       •   Encouraging collaborations with community partners (e.g. civil society organisations
           and museums) and translational activities and public engagement via national and
           international media. Our extensive use of a wide range of social media (see our blog
           and Twitter accounts) is co-ordinated by a dedicated Communications Manager who
           leads a marketing and communications team. The team has grown from 0.8 FTE and a
           web intern in 2016 to a current FTE of 4.
       •   Developing strong, clear links with sources of support for impact in the wider University
           (via e.g. dedicated funding streams and open ‘impact surgeries’ to facilitate

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
           brainstorming) including RED, PolicyBristol and the Professional Liaison Network
           (Section 3; REF5a).
We have adopted a ‘lifecycle’ approach to impact, recognising that meaningful impact and
engagement is more likely to be fruitful if, where possible, it is built into research projects from the
outset. National and international engagement is strongly encouraged – and is a real strength of
the School – but individuals are equally supported when reaching out to the local community as
part of Bristol’s ‘Civic University’ agenda.

We believe the Impact Case Studies we have submitted demonstrate the efficacy of our approach:
three have been directly driven by research undertaken in Centres: HRIC (‘Implementation’), CHLS
(‘Abortion’) and CLAW (‘Workers’ Rights in Europe’). Three came largely or partly out of externally
funded projects (‘Implementation’, ‘Abortion, ‘Housing Law’).

Development of Research Centres
In 2014 the Law School determined to build upon on the success of its world-leading HRIC. In
2015, CLE was launched to consolidate the School’s outstanding research in critical company law,
corporate governance, and social enterprise. In 2017, two new Centres were introduced following a
series of targeted appointments in existing areas of scholarly strength: health law and ethics (e.g.
Coggon, Laing, McGuinness, Syrett), and the law of work (e.g. Bogg, Bales, Conaghan, Cruz,
Ford, Novitz).

A Centres Fund with an annual budget of £12,000 is administered by the School RAIC, and each
Centre is supported by a dedicated administrator. Each Centre also has an external Advisory
Board which meets annually. We ensure that leadership opportunities are fairly distributed and that
there is diversity in the work the Centres undertake. The Centres submit annual Centre reports to
RAIC detailing achievements and future plans.

Centres and Centre status are kept under regular review. Since 2014, the Centre for IT and Law
has been incorporated into the new Centre for Global Law and Innovation (CLGI: see below); and
the Centre for the Study of Law and Religion, lacking the critical mass of staff required to warrant
continued Centre status, has been redesignated a research theme.

HRIC, established in 2009 by Murray and Evans, is recognised globally for its work on human
rights law policy and law reform, particularly around the Optional Protocol to the Convention
against Torture (OPCAT), the African human rights system, and the implementation of human
rights standards by States. The work has been supported through project-specific grants, awarded
from a range of funders including the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, AHRC, ESRC, European
Commission, Oak, Open Society Foundation, and the Nuffield Foundation. Over 70 students from
across our programmes participate in the associated Human Rights Law Clinic every year. HRIC is
a hub for PhD students working on human rights implementation; eleven PhD students are
currently associated with it.

CHLS was launched in 2017 to reflect the Law School’s exceptional strength in this area and is
already recognised as an outstanding centre of research excellence. It has seventeen school
members. It contributes to the activities of the University’s EBI, URI and Population Health Science
Institute (PHSI). CHLS has already organised five well attended international workshops, three
annual symposia, and regular ‘continuing professional development’ events with medical
practitioners. These have led to special issues of the Northern Ireland Legal Quarterly, History, and

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Public Health Ethics. Members of CHLS have also had considerable success securing external
funding for projects across a wide range of topics from a diverse group of funders. This has helped
them achieve significant impact. Coggon, for example, was a co-investigator in a Canadian
Institutes for Health Research-funded project on Artificial Intelligence and public health
interventions, led by the University of British Columbia (Bristol share Can$39,058). CHLS has
developed a strong graduate community around its activities. There is a successful LLM in Health,
Law and Society and the Wellcome Trust now funds three LLM students annually, providing a
pathway into PhD study. Fifteen PhD students now work with CHLS.

CLAW was launched in 2018 and involves twenty-two Law School members. Its aim is the study of
employment law beyond established boundaries and examining issues related to work across a
range of legal and extra-legal disciplines. CLAW has already organised five workshops on diverse
themes (intersectionality; food justice; gig work; freedom of association; criminal law regulation of
work). This has led to publications by Oxford University Press and Hart-Bloomsbury and special
issues of the King’s Law Journal and the International Journal of Comparative Labour Law and
Industrial Relations. Five PhD students are associated with the Centre. A specialist LLM, launched
in 2020, enhances our graduate community in the area.

Centre development has continued with three further launches in 2020: the Centre for Law and
History Research (CLHR), CGLI, and the Centre for International Law (CIL). RAIC was satisfied
that each would be supported by a critical mass of colleagues and would contribute to the research
objectives of the School.

Future Strategy: 2021 and Beyond
The development of our Centres means that we are now well-positioned to respond to important
contemporary economic, political, technological, and public health issues, locally and globally. In
response to the COVID-19 pandemic, for example, bids were developed and submitted (pre-July
2020) under the auspices of CLAW and CHLS involving Jennifer Collins as PI on an AHRC project
(‘Fraud During a Pandemic’; Bristol share £31,870) and Coggon as Co-I on an AHRC ‘COVID-19
Ethics Accelerator’ project (Bristol share £191,726). Both were successful, as was a pre-July 2020
bid with Cruz as Co-I on an UKRI project on the impact of COVID-19 on the UK paid and unpaid
childcare sector (Bristol share £15,122). Online hubs for coronavirus and Brexit research promote
and disseminate our work in these areas.

We will be prioritising working with colleagues from across the University to shape interdisciplinary
research agendas within the University and beyond. In addition to the links noted above, several
colleagues are collaborating with the University’s MMB SRI (Acosta, Bales, Dias-Abbey, Prabhat)
and two of our Centres (CLAW and CLE) are participating in the Inclusive Economy Initiative
(REF5a). Research by colleagues on the regulation of emerging technologies, the gig economy,
and the use of AI in health-care decision-making will contribute to the work of BDFI, which also
offers possible synergies with our newly established CGLI.

There will also be opportunities for us to collaborate with STEM colleagues researching the
technologies associated with TQEC (e.g. University of Bristol Cyber Security Group, Quantum
Technology Innovation Centre, Smart Internet Lab), all of which raise major regulatory issues. An
example is Vranaki's work as Co-I and Policy and Regulation lead for REPHRAIN (Research
Centre on Privacy, Harm Reduction and Adversarial Influence Online), an £8.6 million three-year
UKRI Research Centre of Excellence (bid submitted pre-July 2020; award post-July 2020).

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)


Additionally, the University also has major partnerships with some of the UK’s leading high-tech
industries, and our strategy is to build on these to increase the impact of our research in the region.
We have links with law firms (Burges Salmon, Osborne Clarke and Slaughter & May) and
governmental bodies (MoD and the NHS), and are collaborating with the LV Insurance Advanced
Data Science team. Our recruitment strategy will focus on expanding capacity in high-tech areas.



 2. People

We provide high quality infrastructural support to colleagues and a highly collegial and supportive
environment aimed at ensuring that everyone is able fulfil their research and impact potential.
In 2014, we identified a number of objectives:
       •   Ambitious and sustainable growth, targeted at prioritised thematic areas for both
           professorial and ECR appointments and at maintaining a staff:student ratio
           commensurate with sustainable workloads and high-quality research.
       •   Embedding EDI into our research culture.
       •   Maintaining a balance between senior and ECR appointments to ensure good
           intergenerational collaboration and mentoring.
       •   Providing outstanding support to our PGR students, regardless of financial means, as
           the foundation for future sustainability.
We believe that outstanding scholarship is best supported in an equitable, fair and cooperative
environment and in a community that reflects the world we seek to serve. We appoint on
permanent contracts whenever possible: all teaching and research (‘Pathway 1’) colleagues are on
permanent contracts. We are committed to intergenerational equity and to mentoring throughout
the career lifecycle. Our research students are partners in this enterprise, with our Graduate
Teaching Assistant (GTA) Scheme as the PGR corollary of the institutional commitment to secure
employment.

Recruitment and Retention
We recruit and retain high quality researchers, including professors of the highest distinction and
ECRs with outstanding potential. Staff retention is exceptionally high. During this period, we have
made lateral professorial appointments from the Universities of Cardiff (Syrett), Durham
(Phillipson), Oxford (Bogg, Green), Sheffield (Plomer) and Southampton (Coggon). We have also
recruited numerous exceptionally promising early career colleagues as lecturers (Atrey, Bales,
Bell, Cheng-Davies, Collins J, Cruz, Dias-Abey, Dunne, Ferrando, Galani, Jayathilaka, Kabra, Lu,
McConnell, McCunn, Mulder, Powley, Rooney, R Russell, Y Russell, Tsagas, Torrible, Vranaki).
Our staff:student ratio has improved from 23.6 in 13/14 to 17.0 in 19/20.

Some of these appointments, particularly at professorial level, have been targeted at existing areas
of strength and we have sought to achieve a balance between public and private law at all levels.
Anticipating the law’s response to emerging technologies, special attention has been paid to
developing research capacity in these areas (Cheng-Davies, Green, Lee, Lu, Plomer, Vranaki).
Supported by the BDFI URI, the School’s ambition is to be a sector leader in this field post-2021.




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)


Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
The University has made EDI an institutional priority (REF5a) and the School is committed to
ensuring equality and diversity in both recruitment and internal progression. We pride ourselves on
our diversity. This is reflected in our staff profile.

Over 50% of the School’s academic staff are women, as are fourteen of our thirty-two Professors
(44%; HESA national average 20%) and six of our eleven Associate Professors (55%). Eleven of
the School’s academic staff have an ethnic minority background (12%), and thirty-four originate
from jurisdictions outside of the UK (38%). From REF2014 to REF2021, the proportion of female
submitted staff rose from 51% to 53%, and BAME submitted staff from 5% to 9%. In 2020, Prabhat
became our first BAME professor. This diversity is also reflected in our PGR community. In our
current PGR cohort of seventy students, forty-five are female, thirty are BAME, and ten have a
registered disability. BAME representation in our PGR community grew from 20% in 2013-2014 to
43% in 2019-20.

The School encourages flexible working arrangements to accommodate family, health, and other
needs, and our workload model ensures the fair and transparent allocation of teaching and
administrative duties.

We are addressing structural barriers to research excellence for under-represented groups and
those with caring responsibilities. Part-time colleagues (who are predominantly female) are entitled
to the same research funding allowance as others, while the School’s study leave entitlement
applies to all research active staff, ensuring that leave is available to those with caring
responsibilities or whose ability to work full time is affected by other factors, such as disability.
Research leave can also be designed around flexible patterns (e.g. reducing teaching and
administration responsibilities over a two-year period). Research allowances can be used to
support childcare payments, which has been a critical support to our researchers who are lone
parents. The School has supported its academics to return from part-time to full-time employment
following periods of caring responsibilities. For example, one colleague worked part-time (2008-
09:0.4 FTE; 2009-14:0.6 FTE; 2014-17:0.8 FTE) with a phased resumption of full-time employment
in 2017. She was promoted to Associate Professor in 2015 and Chair in 2018.

The School received an Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2018, the first non-STEM School in the
University to do so. The award recognises our commitment to gender equality and to advancing
the careers of women in higher education. Implementation of our Athena SWAN action plan, to
apply for a Silver Award in the next four years, is undertaken by our EDI Committee, led by Bales.

The central purpose of our EDI Committee is to address issues of inequality or discrimination
amongst students and staff, and to foster a diverse and inclusive Law School. The SRD is an ex
officio member, and its remit includes devising, co-ordinating and monitoring steps taken to comply
with the Equality Act 2010; reviewing the School’s Equality and Diversity Policies, and ensuring
that all documentation is compliant and effectively disseminated; monitoring the composition of the
School’s workforce and student body, and its admission and recruitment practices; preparing and
maintaining an institutional plan to ensure that equal opportunities policies are translated into
programmes of action, and reporting annually to school meetings. PGR students are active on the
EDI Committee, and Lara Farrell, a current PGR student, is an ‘income inequality’ champion. In its
first year of operation, the EDI Committee formulated a mandatory inclusion policy for visiting

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
speakers and Bristol-supported conferences, to ensure inclusive participation. This has been
reflected in the diverse profile of visiting speakers since the policy was introduced.

The School complies fully with the University equal opportunities policy: in the recruitment,
selection, training, appraisal, development and promotion of staff, the only consideration is whether
and to what extent the individual meets the requirements of the role description. We ensure that
our appointment panels are representative in terms of seniority, gender and ethnicity. Female
academics have occupied many of the most important leadership positions in the Law School
during this REF cycle, including HOS (Conaghan), SRD (Green), and three of the current Heads of
PUs (Giliker, Layard, Seabourne).

We have ensured that REF decision-making, both in relation to criteria and final selection, was
undertaken by a transparent, inclusive, and representative Committee. Our REF Committee
comprised seven men and five women: Oliphant (HOS, Chair), Bogg (REF lead), Capps (SRD),
Cruz (Deputy SRD), Giliker (Head of PU), Green (ex-SRD), Ireland (PVC Research), McGuinness
(Deputy SRD), Phillipson (Impact Director), Prosser (Ex-REF panel member), Seabourne (Head of
PU), and Syrpis (Deputy HOS). Selections were based upon at least two internal reviews of each
output; further external reviews were sought where there was significant disagreement or
uncertainty. Where there were significant discrepancies between authors’ self-assessments and
reviews, there was further dialogue with authors. Where outputs received equal ratings, diversity
was considered, in accordance with the University’s code of practice. The distribution of the
proposed selection was analysed in terms of its EDI profile, and across career stages. The views
of EDI Committee were sought before the submission was finalised.

Fair Employment
The School is committed to fair and egalitarian employment practices based on permanent
employment, in line with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. As
such, the School actively helps staff at all career stages to develop as researchers. All staff in REF
2021 are employed on permanent contracts and workloads are carefully managed. Our workload
allocation is open and transparent and is regularly reviewed to ensure that it provides an accurate
measure of real burdens.

We are committed to succession planning, inclusion, and staff development in the allocation of
research-related administrative roles. Both research and impact are supported by ‘deputy’ roles,
which were recently occupied by ECRs (Cruz and Dunne). Centres are required to have a
constitution and have made provision for cyclical rotation of ‘director’ positions to facilitate wide
participation in research leadership roles.

Staff Development
All academic colleagues belong to at least one of our five PUs. As well as providing an intellectual
home, the PUs support personal development through mentoring, staff review, and assistance with
study leave and promotion applications. Annual staff reviews and research audits are used to
discuss research objectives with colleagues, give them feedback on performance, identify
development needs, and assist them with promotion applications. Bristol’s recently revised
promotion procedures recognise research contributions of all kinds and promote equality, diversity
and inclusion (REF5a).




                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
In 2018, fourteen Law School colleagues were promoted internally, nine of whom were women.
Three of the promotions were to Chairs and six to Readerships. In 2019, nine colleagues were
promoted internally, four of whom were women, with two promotions to Chair. In 2020, there were
five promotions (including one Professor and two Associate Professors), all of whom were women.
Between 2012/13 and 2019/20, the percentage of female Associate Professors/Readers rose from
24% to 74%. There has also been a significant increase in female academics in entry-level lecturer
positions: between 2012/13 and 2019/20, the proportion rose from 53% to 69%. These are the
tangible results of systematic mentoring and the mainstreaming of equality, diversity and inclusion
in the School, which culminated in our Athena SWAN bronze award and the concurrent creation of
our School EDI committee.

ECRs
We offer excellent support for our ECRs, with a comprehensive induction programme to ensure
they are fully integrated into our community. They become members of our PUs and benefit from
reduced teaching loads and minimal administrative obligations in their first two years. All ECRs
have a dedicated mentor, usually drawn from their PU.

ECRs are encouraged to participate fully in PU activities, in informal seminars where they have the
opportunity to present and get feedback on their work, and in the all-School research seminar
programme, with papers from both external speakers and Bristol colleagues. School-level support
for ECRs is supplemented at Faculty and University levels. ECRs are required to complete Levels
1 and 2 of the University’s Cultivating Research and Teaching Excellence qualification (CREATE:
REF5a). ECRs are also supported by the FSSL ECR-led Early Career Network (co-established by
Dunne) which operates across the Faculty.

Impact, Engagement and Knowledge Exchange
Our annual staff reviews and research audits are supportive exercises which we use to help
colleagues develop and realise their research agendas and plans for impact. In one case (Acosta),
they led to the School funding the regular research trips to South America which underpin his ICS
(REF3, Migration Laws). This School-level support is nested within extensive provision at Faculty
and University levels, through a suite of staff development courses, senior leadership mentoring,
the CREATE programme, and tailored training from RED.

Active support is provided to stimulate and facilitate engagement between academia and business,
public or third-sector bodies. We have, for example, been very successful with the prestigious
Parliamentary Academic Fellowship scheme in which Laing, Murray, Phillipson and Syrpis have
participated. In 2017-18, Jack Simson Caird, a senior constitutional law specialist at the House of
Commons, spent time with us as an Honorary Fellow. The ESRC-funded Productive Margins
project (Sections 3 and 4 below) led in 2020 to the City Fellows Programme, a major University of
Bristol collaboration with Bristol City Council and the Social Justice Project which seeks to foster
team-based solutions to systematic inequalities in the city.

Based in RED, PolicyBristol has facilitated many exchanges between the School and the private
and public sectors: Boeger won an ESRC Knowledge Exchange Fellowship in collaboration with
Policy Bristol and law firm Bates Wells. The Faculty’s Professional Liaison Network assisted
McDermont in applying jointly with civic partners for an Ideas grant from the Brigstow Institute URI.
This has funded a one-year pilot, establishing a citizens advice service within Dorset County
General Hospital.

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)


Research Students
The School has continued to strengthen its PGR community during this REF period, recruiting
exceptionally high-calibre students and supporting them to become successful, research-active
academics. We redesigned our PGR website in 2019 to showcase the opportunities open to Bristol
PGRs and have used social media to raise awareness of funding opportunities in the Law School.

We have expanded our PGR community from 50 students in 2013-14 to 70 in 2019-20. The
proportion of female students has remained stable, fluctuating between 64-70%. The proportion of
BAME students has grown from 20% in 2013-14 to 43% in 2019-20, whilst the proportion of those
with a disability has remained steady (10%: 14%). Our PhD completion rates (see below) suggest
that expansion has not compromised the intellectual quality of our graduate students. Our growth
plan is based upon sustainability and aligning PhD study with the strategic identification of
Research Centre themes. Eleven PhD students are currently working in the HRIC, fifteen in CHLS,
and five in CLAW.

PhD Scholarships
A small number of students are self-funded, but the majority receive scholarships, helping to
ensure that the brightest can pursue PhD study regardless of social background. Early recognition
of the excellence of the MSc in Socio-legal Studies gave us a substantial number of ESRC 1+3
PhD students, now supplemented by funding for the MRes which also offers an ESRC 1+3 and the
South West Doctoral Training Programme (SWDTP), which enables training of doctoral students
across Bath, Bristol, Exeter, Plymouth and UWE. Fifteen of our students have been supported
through the ESRC during the current REF cycle. Doctoral funding has also come from the AHRC
(three students) and national scholarship schemes (four students). We have particularly strong
connections with China and Chile. During this REF period, we have secured funding for Chinese
PhD students through the Denis Chang Scholarship and the China Scholarship Council (six
students). Three students from Chile have been supported through the Chilean Ministry of
Education. The University offers PGR scholarships on a competitive basis and we have secured
five such scholarships. We have also funded a Graduate Teaching Assistant (GTA) scheme, which
covers full tuition fees plus a living allowance, while providing teaching experience. We advertised
three GTA positions this year.

Support for PGRs
We provide our PGRs with excellent support tailored to individual needs. All PGRs have at least
two supervisors and we have excellent collaborative interdisciplinary supervisory arrangements
with other Bristol Schools and other universities in the South West. SWDTP training and core units
are compulsory for ESRC students and are strongly recommended to all PGRs, who can also
attend appropriate units in the MSc, LLM and MA programmes. PGRs are grouped in a PU for
Research Students (PURS) for each year of their studies. These groups provide tailored training
appropriate to the relevant stage of research, including research planning, publishing from the
PhD, future career applications and applying for post-doctoral funding. The PURS course is taken
alongside a compulsory course in Advanced Legal and Socio-Legal Research Methods, delivered
through the LLM-level unit on the MSc in Socio-Legal Studies. This applies methodological insights
developed in the LLM unit into the design of the student’s own research project.

Our specialist PGR administrator performs an important pastoral role, building close relationships
with our PGR students. This personal dimension has proved particularly important to those

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
returning from periods of leave resulting from caring responsibilities or illness, and it is highly
valued by our students. PGRs also have full access to University support structures for mental
health and wellbeing. We also provide a bespoke ‘resilience for legal researchers’ session, led by
the School’s ‘Senior Tutor’ and PGR Director.

PGR progress is closely monitored with:
   •   A norm of one supervisory session per month with more intensive supervision at key times
   •   An annual progress review (twice-yearly for ESRC students) led by the Director of
       Graduate Studies and PGR Director and monitored by the Faculty Education Director
   •   A demanding upgrade/review process during the second year, including submission of a
       report of 10-15,000 words and a meeting with a panel of internal examiners, which
       produces a detailed report for the student.
   •   We have an ‘enhanced academic support’ (EAS) procedure where there are concerns
       about progress, involving more intensive supervision, documented supervision meetings,
       an agreed work plan with strict timetables for completion of work, and an assessment of
       progress at the end of a 3-month period. On the three occasions where EAS has been
       used, it has produced positive outcomes.
During this REF cycle, 65 PhD students fully or co-supervised by UoA colleagues have completed
successfully. 52% of our full-time PhDs completed successfully in under four years, and 96% in
under five years. We have supported seven part-time students to successful completion, with 72%
completing within seven years. Following growth and the recruitment of additional staff earlier in
the REF period, our number of PhD completions has now begun to rise.

  PhDs awarded (by proportion of School of Law supervision; no professional doctorates)
  2013/14   2014/15    2015/16     2016/17     2017/18    2018/19     2019/20     Total
     4        9.5        10.9        6.83        5.6         7.5         12       56.33

PGRs’ Contribution to our Research Environment
Our PGR community makes a key contribution to the vitality, richness and sustainability of our
School. PGR students are encouraged to attend school events and conferences, with discretionary
financial support provided for the latter: £10,000 pa across all PGRs. Research funds can be used
flexibly, particularly by PGRs with caring and childcare responsibilities (e.g. purchasing printer
consumables where access to printing facilities in the office is impaired). We provide desk space in
shared offices for all PGRs in our new BSQ premises, as well as a communal area and kitchen
space. This has helped to establish a strong sense of community. We provide offices for those in
their final year or engaged in teaching.

PGRs have many opportunities to present both to their peers and to staff in supportive settings
such as the Gender and Feminism Reading Group, the Political Economy Reading Group, and a
PGR-led series of events on Black History Month. There is a PGR e-newsletter, indicating sources
of funding and conference opportunities, and social media is actively used to showcase PGR
activities.

To ensure our PGRs have a voice in shaping their own experience in the School, a PGR
representative sits on the student-staff liaison committee and has the opportunity to raise issues
and highlight support needs. We participate in the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey, the
results of which are considered in formal meetings, chaired by the PGR representative and

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
attended by the PGR Director and Administrator. This has led, amongst other things, to the
implementation of changes to our careers support (a new half-day session on academic and non-
academic careers), to a visit from representatives of a leading academic publisher to talk about
publishing PhD research, and to improved information on University mental health support. All
PGRs also have access to a wide range of training opportunities provided by the SWDTP and
Bristol Doctoral College.

PGR successes
Bristol PGRs routinely obtain academic posts in other institutions (recently at Birmingham, Cardiff,
Exeter and Leeds). Many former students have joined the School as academics (Bell, Cheng-
Davies, Galani, Powley, Russell R and Torrible). Patrick Nash is now a research fellow at the
Woolf Institute in the University of Cambridge. Mary Synge and Alice Venn hold academic posts at
the University of Exeter. Lydia Hayes has recently been appointed as a Professor at Kent. Her
book, Stories of Care, which builds upon her doctoral work at Bristol, was awarded the 2018 SLSA
Early Career Award, and the 2018 Peter Birks Prize. The work of our current PhD student, Robert
Craig (recently appointed lecturer), was cited in the two recent leading constitutional cases in the
UK Supreme Court, Miller v Secretary of State for Exiting the EU (2017) and Privacy International
(2019).



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Our two main objectives for the REF period were:
   •   To expand the School’s physical space to ensure the maintenance of single offices for
       academics, provide conference space for academic events, and enhance the shared work
       and recreational space of our PGRs.
   •   To improve our research grant income from its level of approximately £1.7 million during the
       preceding REF cycle.


Infrastructure and Facilities
During this period, there have been significant enhancements to the School’s physical
infrastructure, the centrepiece of which has been the addition of a second Law School building
through the £7.4 million development and restoration of 8-10 Berkeley Square (BSQ), situated just
a few minutes’ walk from the main Law School building, the iconic Wills Memorial Building (WMB).
The proximity of the buildings means the School has gained considerable extra space without loss
to our sense of academic community.

This BSQ development, shortlisted for a BREEAM award in 2016, contains the new Lady Hale
Moot Court and a state-of-the-art hub for our PGRs, including shared office space, breakout
research rooms, and a communal kitchen. In addition, there is a dedicated shared office space for
our growing body of post-doctoral researchers with room for visiting research scholars. Together
with the Great Hall and Reception Room in WMB, the Moot Court has facilitated the hosting of
large international conferences and other events. As well as housing academic offices and a range
of communal spaces, BSQ also provides numerous seminar rooms, all equipped with state-of-the-
art audio-visual facilities. There are currently 36 academic staff based in BSQ and 56 in WMB.




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
In addition to teaching and office space, WMB houses the refurbished Wills Memorial Library
providing legal resources and study space. The £3.1 million refurbishment was unveiled by
Baroness Hale of Richmond in December 2013. We have a specialist Law Librarian (Niles). The
Law School regularly provides funds from its own budget to enrich Library provision – for example,
investing £180,000 in June 2017 to secure access to the ‘Making of Modern Law’ database of legal
monographs published between 1800-1926.

Grant Income
The School has successfully and significantly increased its grant income during this REF period,
with a spend of £4.3 million (REF4b) and grants won worth well over £5 million, including
approximately £2.6 million (ESRC), £150,000 (AHRC), £350,000 (British Academy), £1.1 million
(European Commission), £170,000 (FCO), £130,000 (Horizon 2020), £200,000 (Leverhulme
Trust), £70,000 (Nuffield), £90,000 (Wellcome Trust) and £70,000 (Wellcome Trust). These
successes are testament to the excellent and comprehensive support offered to colleagues by the
central RED team (REF5a) and our enhanced School-level infrastructure: this period has seen the
appointment of a Research Manager (Mills) and an Executive Assistant (Spicer). A total of 48
members of staff (more than half our total FTE) have attracted money from funders including the
research councils (ESRC (>10), AHRC (>5) and charitable funders (Wellcome Trust (3), Nuffield
Foundation (3) Leverhulme Trust/British Academy (>10)).

The School has a strong record of early career grant success. McDermont’s ERC Starter Grant,
New Sites of Legal Consciousness: a case study of UK advice agencies, for example, secured
funding of €1,029,298, concluding in March 2016. These early career successes have continued
with Prabhat securing an ESRC Future Leaders Award ‘Understanding “Quasi-Citizenship” in
Immigration Law and Practice’ (2014-2017) (£244,381) a key output of which was her monograph
Unleashing the Force of Law: Legal Mobilization, National Security, and Basic Freedoms (Palgrave
2016) which won the prestigious UK Society of Legal Scholars (SLS) Peter Birks Prize (2017).
Psygkas won a British Academy Rising Star Engagement Award (2016) (£14,937) to complete his
monograph ‘Democratic Deficit' to a 'Democratic Surplus': Constructing Administrative Democracy
in Europe (OUP 2017), which was shortlisted for the Socio-Legal Studies Association (SLSA)
Theory and History Book Prize (2019). Recent early career funding successes include Jayathilaka
(British Academy Small Grant, £6,895), Dunne (SLSA, £2,995), Jennifer Collins (SLS, £3,000),
McCunn (SLS, £2,600), and Rooney (SLS, £3,000), and provide evidence of the supportive
approach to research capacity building at all career stages that is central to the School’s research
ethos.

The ESRC was the biggest funder of research in the School during the current REF period.
Funding included:
   •   McDermont (PI) – ‘Productive Margins: Regulation for Engagement’ (£1,856,108, Apr 13 –
       Jun 18) (Research took place during this cycle)
   •   Prabhat (PI) – ‘Understanding Quasi-Citizenship in Immigration Law and Practice’
       (£244,381, Oct 14 – Sep 17)
   •   Masson (PI) - ‘Establishing outcomes of care proceedings for children before and after care
       proceedings reform’ (£455,788, Sep 15 – Jul 18)
   •   Murray (PI) - ‘Implementation and compliance with human rights law: An exploration of the
       interplay between the international, regional and national levels’ (£1,099,963, Sep 15 – Feb
       19) (REF 3, ‘Implementation’)
   •   Layard (PI) - ‘Ways of neighbourhood working and knowing’ (£26,883, Dec 14 – Dec 16)

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
    •   McGuinness (Co-I) ‘Death Before Birth: Understanding, informing and supporting the
        choices made by people who have experienced miscarriage, termination, and stillbirth’
        (ESRC, £429,780, Sep 16 – Sep 18). This contributed to an ICS (REF 3, ‘Abortion’).
Other Research Council successes include Coggon as CI on ‘The Role of Values and Participation
in Judicial Deliberation and Mental Capacity Law’ (AHRC, total award, £802,720, Nov 18 - Oct 21)
and Bibbings’ collaboration on an AHRC World War One Community Heritage Centre. Beyond the
Research Councils members of the School were successfully involved in other UKRI funded
research, e.g. Nolden (CI, Innovate UK, total award £319,514). The School’s agile response to
global challenges is evident from several successes in the recent UKRI COVID funding stream
(Collins J, PI, Fraud during a pandemic, UKRI, Bristol share £31,870; Coggon, CI, Ethics
Accelerator, AHRC, Bristol share £191,726; and Cruz, CI, Impact of Covid on UK Paid and Unpaid
Childcare Sector, UKRI, Bristol share £15,122).

A key area of growth in this period was the School’s strategic engagement in collaborative
research activity and an increase in the number of staff involved in large national and international
research consortia. Notable examples include:
   •    Three members of staff were co-investigators on Horizon2020 funded research projects:
             o Charlesworth, co-investigator on the Privacy Flag project on personal data
                 protection (€4.5 million, 2015-18, Bristol project, Law School share £97,289)
             o Novitz and Gammage collaborated on Sustainable Market Actors for Responsible
                 Trade (€3.8 million, 2016-20, Law School income: £33,983)
   •    BABEL: Balancing Best Interests in Ethics and Law, a Wellcome Trust Collaborative Award,
        exploring best interests decision-making in healthcare, ethics and law (total award £1.5
        million, September 2018 - ongoing) (PI: Huxtable, CIs: Laing and McGuinness)
   •    Two members of staff (Coggon and Syrett) are co-investigators on two (of only four) major
        UK Prevention Research Partnership (UKPRP) Consortia Awards:
             o TRUUD: Tackling the Root causes Upstream of Unhealthy Urban Development
                 (total award £6.6 million over five years)
             o SPECTRUM: Shaping Public Health Policies to Reduce Inequalities and Harm (total
                award £5.9 million for five years)

Law School members have also been actively involved in internationally funded research,
including: Acosta, co-investigator and collaborator on the ERC funded ‘Prospects for International
Migration Governance (MIGPROSP) (total award €2,127,927); collaborations by Novitz on
‘Inclusive and sustainable Swedish labour law - the ways ahead’ funded by Swedish Research
Council (Bristol share £77,790) and Syrett on ‘Just Coverage Decisions: Including Legal Analysis
into the Assessment of Health Technologies’ funded by the Canadian Institute for Health Research
(Can$380,000).

The School also secured a range of awards from charitable funders and representative
organisations with clear translation of research findings into important policy impacts. Hitchings
was awarded funding from the Bar Council for her work on ‘McKenzie Friends in Private Family
Law Cases: an exploration of their capacities and practices’ (£20,000). Cowan was PI on the
‘Shared ownership: crisis moments’ Leverhulme Grant (£72,000) – the outcome of this activity
informs Cowan’s ICS (REF3, Housing Law). The School built on a track record of securing awards
from the Leverhulme Trust: Mulder and Murray have been awarded Leverhulme International
Academic Fellowships (£22,000 each), Plomer was awarded a Leverhulme Fellowship (£119,155),


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
and Bogg brought with him from Oxford his Phillip Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship
(£40,000). Our family law researchers have continued their successful record of grants from the
Nuffield Foundation: Masson (£250,000) and Hitchings (£285,078, Bristol share £197,328).

Staff have also undertaken research either funded or commissioned by the following organisations,
not all of which contribute to HESA data, which reflects broad engagement in civil society: Shelter,
the Police and Crime Commissioner for Avon & Somerset, Bar Society, Chief Scientist Office of
Scotland, Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy, Welsh Assembly, Virgin
Enterprises Ltd, Sustainable Inshore Fisheries Trust, Open Society Foundations, Equality and
Human Rights Commission, Irish Human Rights and Equality Commission, Deutsche Gesellschaft
für Internationale Zusammenarbeit, and Slynn Foundation.

Strategies for generating research income
In addition to the excellent University-level support offered by RED, we have developed a
comprehensive infrastructure for research bid development, running an annual Research and
Impact training day, open to all and compulsory for those who wish to apply for School study leave
the following year.

The School offers excellent support for the writing of funding applications, involving assistance
from PUs, mentor support for ECRs, and advice from the SRD and previously successful
colleagues. The School has also invested in the appointment of a Research Manager who informs
staff of funding opportunities and sources of support through a fortnightly e-newsletter ‘Research
Matters’, and coordinates with RED and Finance to support ethical approval, funding applications,
and financial costings.

Expertise within the School and wider University is used to support colleagues in developing the
impact potential of funded projects by building it into projects from the outset. Peer review of
funding applications encourages applicants to be imaginative and ambitious in incorporating plans
for engagement with external partners and, where possible, partnerships with relevant
stakeholders. Numerous successful examples of this include Bibbings, Cowan, McDermont and
Hitchings (above and Section 4). The School actively builds general awareness of impact
opportunities and the skills to develop them through its training programmes, and its Strategic
Impact Fund (£10,000 pa) then actively supports staff developing Case Studies.

The School’s seven Research Centres are central to our ambition to increase external grant
income. Our commitment to supporting and developing our Centres in a sustainable way is evident
from the continued success of the HRIC (established 2009). The Centres contribute to securing
large multi-disciplinary funding awards furthering University research agendas in, for example,
transdisciplinary health research (CHLS: Coggon, Syrett and others), the transformation of
technology and society (CGLI: Vranaki and others) and ensuring the School’s capability in securing
responsive-mode funding (CLAW: see above Collins and Cruz, UKRI COVID).

During this cycle, the School appointed an Executive Assistant with primary responsibility for
Centres support and introduced an annual £10,000 Centres research fund. The success of our
Centres as a mechanism for capacity building is evident in a range of ventures. For example,
following two successful workshops co-hosted by members of CHLS and HRIC (McGuinness,
Rooney) the University was invited to enter into a strategic partnership with the United Nations
Population Fund which was formally signed and launched in February 2019.


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Colleagues have access to a personal research allowance and can apply for further funding
through the School’s Strategic Research Fund (SRF), subject to formal review by RAIC. In addition
to ensuring that ECRs have access to opportunities to build networks, the School has expanded
the terms of the fund to cover childcare costs where this facilitates conference attendance, archive
visits, etc.

Faculty/University:
School support is complementary to the professional services infrastructure offered through the
Faculty and RED. RED has several bespoke teams which provide advice and support, including
horizon-scanning; external partnership development; research and consultancy contracts; and
compliance. It also supports applications to responsive-mode calls, maintaining a repository of
successful applications, and rigorously reviewing drafts. RED works across faculties to ensure that
multi-disciplinary teams can be quickly mobilised to respond to ‘challenge-led’ funding
opportunities.

The University also supplements external research incomes with internal funding opportunities and
membership of regional funding networks. Successful awards in this category include seven
members of staff for ESRC IAA funding (Acosta, Cruz, Kelly, Laing, McDermont, McGuinness,
Quick), two GW4 initiator awards (Gammage, Rivers), and three GW4 accelerator awards
(Gammage, Hitchings, Rivers). Staff have secured funding support through Bristol’s URIs (e.g. EBI
for Health Research, Brigstow Institute) and SRIs (e.g. MMB, PHSI). During this REF cycle the
Faculty has also introduced a ‘Grant Capture Fund’ to incentivise bid progression by providing to
those applying for external grant funding administrative and research assistance, teaching relief,
and an intensive in-house writing retreat.

During this REF period the University has reviewed its International Research Partnerships (IRP)
portfolio which supports global strategic research activities. IRP provides a range of support to
facilitate global research excellence. Members of the School have successfully hosted six
Benjamin Meaker Distinguished Visiting Professorships (Louise du Toit, University of Stellenbosch;
Stephen Bottomley, Australian National University; Anita Ho, University of British Columbia;
Lawrence Gostin, Georgetown University; Johanna Olson-Kennedy, University of Southern
California; Janelle Orsi, Sustainable Economies Law Center). Benjamin Meaker Professors all give
public lectures during their visit and many were involved in high profile conferences, postgraduate
research master-classes, and follow-on publications. School members have also been supported
in international research activities with funding from the University’s International Strategic Fund
(e.g. Rooney’s Global Research Fellowship at NYU). The University is a member of the World
University Network (WUN), which funds international research networks and whose ‘researcher
mobility programme’ has funded periods of research overseas (e.g. Austin, University of Toronto;
Rees, University of Sydney). The School itself has an extensive network of international
partnerships, recently bolstered by new partnership agreements with leading universities in China
(China University of Political Science; Jilin; Peking; Shandong; Tsinghua) and India (OP Jindal),
with provision for research visits by faculty and PGRs, and other research collaboration.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

As outlined in Section 1, the School’s systematic development of policies and processes to embed
and support impact, engagement, and knowledge exchange fosters a strongly policy-focused

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
research environment. This combines with our external-facing presence, through the development
of clusters of excellence in our Research Centres, national doctoral training and an exceptionally
strong and diverse range of collaborations with external stakeholders beyond the discipline. The
following provides evidence in four broad categories of the breadth and depth of our external reach
that these factors have helped foster.

Engagement and collaboration with external partners

(1) Judiciary and legal practice

Research by Law School academics has been cited in a number of important national and
international courts, demonstrating the reach, significance and impact of our research. Notable
examples include:
    •   Mulder, in AG Bobek’s opinion for the EU Court of Justice (EUCJ) Case C‑451/16MB v
        Secretary of State for Work and Pensions
    •   Dunne (working with Scherpe), in the German Supreme Court (Federal Court of Justice) in
        Case XII ZB 660/14 (2017)
    •   Rivers, by the UKSC in Nicklinson (2014) and Federal Court of Australia in Iliafi (2014)
    •   Novitz, by the Supreme Court of Canada (SCC) in Saskatchewan Federation of Labour
        (2015)
    •   Bogg, by the High Court in the leading employment status case, Deliveroo (2019), the SCC
        in Mounted Police of Ontario (2015) and the EUCJ in Sash Windows (2017) and AG Bot in
        Bauer (2018)
    •   Oliphant, by the UKSC in Rhodes v OBO (2015)
    •   Phillipson, n the UKSC in Miller v Secretary of State for Exiting the EU (2017) and the SCC
        in Nevsun Resources Ltd v Araya (2020)
    •   Craig, in the UKSC in Miller (above) and Privacy International (2019)


Hitchings was the academic advisor for the successful appellant’s legal team in the UKSC case of
Mills v Mills (2018); her work with Miles (Cambridge) on financial remedies in family proceedings
was used at judicial training events (2014 and 2018) and she herself provided training for
approximately 200 members of the judiciary in 2019-20.

(2) National engagement: government, agencies and parliament

Contribution to law reform
•   Law School academics have made leading contributions to law reform, especially of the
    criminal justice system. As Director of Innocence UK, for example, Naughton wrote its
    submissions to a major criminal appeal, which strongly influenced the eventual judgment of the
    UKSC in Nunn (2014). This resulted in changes to the Attorney-General guidelines: there is
    now a common law duty on the police and the Crown Prosecution Service to give access to
    evidence post-conviction. Naughton’s invited evidence to Parliament’s Justice Committee on
    the work of the Commission (2014) prompted a full inquiry into its effectiveness.
•   Quick’s collaborative IAA-funded work with the CPS, conducted through CHLS, has enabled
    his empirical work on medical manslaughter to change policies in England and Wales on
    prosecuting medical manslaughter, and was a key factor in the successful legal arguments
    made in a landmark criminal appeal case (Sellu (2016)).

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
•   Hitchings’ research on pre-nuptial agreements for the Law Commission (2011) was a strong
    influence on its final report (2014) and she was invited to become a member of the
    Commission’s Advisory Group.


Collaboration with national policy actors
•   The work of CHLS has involved further major collaborations with key national policy actors.
    Coggon was commissioned by Public Health England to produce (with Viens, Southampton) a
    guidance document for the whole of the UK's public health workforce and by the UK Faculty of
    Public Health to write a public report on public health and the ‘nanny state’ debate (2019),
    which has been circulated widely to ministers in Westminster, the European Parliament and
    members of the Scottish Parliament.
•   Laing is a member of the Care Quality Commission Mental Health Act expert advisory group.
    Her study in collaboration with academics from the University of the West of England (UWE)
    made important policy recommendations on the ‘Nearest Relative’ role under the Mental Health
    Act 1983. These were cited in an Independent Review of the Act (2018) and the Government’s
    National Workforce Plan for Approved Mental Health Professionals and will be fed into
    Government consultations on its plans to reform the Act.
•   Also within CHLS, McGuinness was appointed to trustee positions within the newly established
    Irish National Screening Advisory Committee (NASC) and the British Pregnancy Advisory
    Service to provide expertise in reproductive health law, ethics and policy. The establishment of
    NASC marks a milestone for screening in Ireland.
•   In the key areas covered by CLAW, Ford provided legal advice for trade unions and NGOs on
    the effect of Brexit on labour rights (REF3, Workers’ Rights in Europe) and discussed Brexit at
    a conference in Brussels attended by European trade unions and policy-makers. Ford, Bogg,
    Novitz and other labour lawyers drafted and promoted the ‘Manifesto for Labour Law’ (2016)
    produced by the Institute for Employment Rights, much of which was adopted by the Labour
    Party as official policy.
•   Working within CLE, Villiers gave evidence to the Department for Business, Energy and
    Industrial Strategy, cited in its report on Corporate Governance. Boeger and Villiers were
    appointed as Associate Research Fellows of the British Academy on the Future of the
    Corporation project launched in 2017. Pieraccini was invited in 2020 to join Defra’s advisory
    group on engagement and governance for Highly Protected Marine Areas.


Parliamentary work
•   As befits the School’s keen engagement with contemporary policy debates, many staff have
    contributed to Parliament’s policy-making and scrutiny roles. Syrpis and Phillipson have both
    worked on the policy and constitutional implications of Brexit for the House of Commons
    Library using fellowship schemes (2017 and 2019) and Laing and Murray won Parliamentary
    Academic Fellowships this year; Ford was Special Advisor to two Parliamentary Committees on
    policies around the workplace and Dunne advised the House of Commons Select Committee
    on Women and Equalities during its Transgender Equality Inquiry, which cited his evidence
    extensively in its report (2016). Several staff have given oral and written evidence by invitation
    to Parliamentary committee enquiries, including Greer (Joint Committee on Human Rights
    Inquiry into Freedom of Speech in Universities (2018)), Syrpis (Commons and Lords Select
    Committees scrutinising Brexit (2017)); Gammage (International Trade Committee, also Brexit
    (2018)); Villiers (Select Committee hearing on corporate governance, (2016)); and Phillipson


                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
    (House of Lords Constitution Committee (2019) and Public Administration and Constitutional
    Affairs Committee (PACAC) (2020)) both on the Fixed-Term Parliaments Act, the latter drawing
    on his evidence extensively, and on the role of Parliament in military force decisions (PACAC,
    2019). As a PGR, Craig gave written evidence in the same committee processes, and then as
    Lecturer to the House of Lords Constitution Committee Inquiry into the Constitutional
    Implications of COVID-19 (2020). Bjorge with Smith (Oxford) and Lang (House of Commons
    Library), submitted evidence to the House of Lords Liaison Committee, relied on in its 2019
    Report, arising from a successful conference they staged on Brexit and Treaties.

(3) International engagement and collaboration

Human Rights
•   A key part of the work of the HRIC relates to torture prevention. Its Deputy Director, Evans, is
    Chair of the UN Subcommittee for Prevention of Torture, and authored its guidelines on
    national preventive mechanisms, which are routinely cited at national and international level.
    He contributed significantly to the 2019 Position Paper of the Chairs of the UN Human Rights
    Treaty bodies on the future of the Human Rights system and to Guidance produced by the
    Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, which has become a key resource in
    bolstering torture prevention institutions across the world. Evans is also Vice-Chair of the High-
    Level Advisory Board to the UN Global Study of Children in Detention and sits on the
    Independent Review Panel of the Global Community and Engagement Resilience Fund.
•   Collaboratively with HRIC and CHLS, Dunne co-authored a report on transgender and intersex
    equality laws in Europe for the European Commission (2018); he was a consultant for a
    Commission workshop on trans and intersex discrimination for the High-level Conference on
    Advancing LGBTI equality in the EU: ‘From 2020 and Beyond’ (Brussels, 2019), delivered
    training on trans and intersex rights at the EU Platform of Diversity Charters Expert Seminar on
    LGBTI Rights (Vienna, 2019) and advised Commonwealth policy-makers on the
    implementation of legal gender recognition laws (Malaysia, 2019) at the invitation of the
    Equality and Justice Alliance. Since 2018 he has been a Senior Expert for Sexual Orientation
    on the European Equality Law Network.
•   Within HRIC, Galani has, since 2018, contributed to the Global Maritime Crime Programme of
    the UN Office for Drugs and Crime (UNODC) by writing parts of their training manual, providing
    legal advice for the development of their maritime capacity-building initiatives, delivering
    training sessions, leading expert workshop sessions and contributing two chapters to the
    UNODC Manual for Criminal Justice Practitioners (2019), which is used as a training tool by the
    UN.
•   Greer was a Panel expert on the EU FP7 funded project ‘Fostering Human Rights Among
    European Policies’, speaking at its Workshop on Protection of Human Rights: Institutions and
    Instruments, Ludwig Boltzmann Institute for Human Rights (Vienna, 2014).


Labour Rights and Trade
•   Novitz, who chairs the Steering Committee of the global Labour Law Research Network
    (LLRN), comprising 78 research centres, presented at an International Trade Union
    Confederation workshop, attended by the chairs of the UN Human Rights Committee and the
    Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. She is on the Executive Committee of the
    Industrial Law Society, is the UK Representative on the Executive Committee of International


                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
    Lawyers for Workers network (ILAW) and she and Bogg are Members of the Executive Board
    of the Institute of Employment Rights.
•   As investigators on the EU Horizon 2020 funded project, ‘Sustainable Market Actors for
    Responsible Trade’ (2016-20), Gammage and Novitz were co-leads of an academic cluster on
    trade and investment, working with EU Commission directorates.


(4) Local and community engagement: Bristol’s ‘Civic University’ initiative (REF5a)


•   The School has a programme of active engagement with a range of civic actors and
    organisations in the Bristol region. The major five-year ESRC funded project ‘Productive
    Margins’ (2013-2018), noted above, was led by McDermont. A multi-disciplinary collaboration
    between Bristol and Cardiff Universities, it worked with seven neighbourhood-based, identity-
    based and faith-based community organisations experimenting with new ways of living and
    working. It initiated seven major projects and Community Researcher training packages, and
    produced innovative methodological outputs, including five festivals, fiction, dramatizations and
    films, and a national guide on domestic violence for educational practitioners in Wales.
•   In 2018, McDermont set up a Social Justice and Innovation Initiative to reimagine how cities
    are governed, building collaborations between voluntary sector advice organisations. Key
    findings were written up in an ESRC-IAA funded report detailing best practice, disseminated
    throughout the advice sector.
•   Bibbings has played a key role in ‘Remembering the Real World War 1’ (RRWW1) project. Her
    research into conscientious objection shaped the group’s agenda and made a major
    contribution to its Refusing to Kill exhibition, which received over 2,000 visitors from around the
    world on its opening day. Bibbings was Co-I on a £500,000 AHRC engagement project,
    culminating in a national festival on hidden stories of WW1, led by RRWW1.


Contribution to the disciplinary knowledge base

Membership of Learned Societies and Editorial Boards
•   The Law School is strongly represented in learned societies. Prosser is Fellow of the British
    Academy and Villiers and Boeger Honorary Research Fellows for the Academy’s Project on the
    Future of the Corporation; Conaghan, Cowan, Greer, Masson and McDermont are Fellows of
    the Academy of Social Sciences and Syrett a Fellow of the Royal Society of Medicine and the
    Royal Society of Arts. Coggon was awarded honorary membership of the UK Faculty of Public
    Health, sits on the British Medical Journal’s Ethics Committee and is a founder member of the
    Ethics Committee of the UK Faculty of Public Health. Giliker was the first woman to hold the
    position of Honorary Treasurer of the SLS. Green was appointed as Law Commissioner for
    England and Wales responsible for commercial and common law reform in 2019; during her
    five-year term she will maintain her professorial association with the School.
•   Members of the School help run several internationally leading law journals. Editorships
    include Evans (general editor, ICLQ), Giliker (ICLQ), Green (OJLS), Hitchings (Journal of
    Social Welfare and Family Law), Oliphant (founding General Editor, Journal of European Tort
    Law), Mulder (Co-Editor in Chief, German Law Journal) and Rivers and Evans (Editors in Chief,
    Oxford Journal of Law and Religion). Bogg is a general editor of the OUP Monographs in
    Labour Law series, Cowan of Palgrave’s Socio-Legal Series. The School also makes a strong
    contribution to editing specialist journals, including Coggon (Editor-in-Chief, Health Care


                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
    Analysis and Associate Editor (Law), Journal of Bioethical Inquiry), Russell Y (Editor-in-Chief,
    Feminist Legal Studies) and Novitz (legislation section editor, Industrial Law Journal). Members
    of the School also sit on the editorial boards of numerous leading generalist journals including
    OJLS (Bogg), Public Law (Phillipson), Journal of Law and Society (Layard).


Participation in Grant Committees, Research Councils and other Committees; Prizes
•   Members of the School have played important roles on grant Committees. Prosser was a
    Member of the British Academy Law Standing Committee, 2015-19, with responsibility for
    organising the elections of fellows and reviewing and ranking research grant applications for
    several funding schemes and a member of The Expert Panel for the Leverhulme Prizes in Law,
    2017 and 2020. Masson was appointed to the expert panel for the Swiss Nation Science
    Foundation research programme NRP 76 advising on research bids to a fund of SFr 20 million
    (2017-18). McGuiness was a member of the Wellcome Trust, Social Science and Bioethics
    Interview Committee advising on funding. Plomer acts as an ethics expert for the European
    Commission, contributing to the evaluation of EU-funded projects on health innovation. Layard,
    Bibbings, Prabhat, McDermont and Pieraccini and Hitchings have been members of the ESRC
    Peer Review College and Layard, Prabhat and Bibbings of the AHRC College. Laing was an
    Outer Board Assessor on the Government of Ireland Postdoctoral Fellowship Scheme (2019-
    2020).
•   Beyond funding bodies, Evans is Panel Member of the Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual
    Abuse in England and Wales. Syrett sits on the Management Committee of the International
    Society for Priorities in Health Care and is national Secretary of the British Association for
    Canadian Studies; Hitchings was an Academic member of the Family Law Committee of the
    Law Society of England and Wales (2007-2017). Boeger sat on the previous Technical Panel
    of the Regulator of Community Interest Companies and is now on the Working Group for
    Regenerative Business of the Institute of Directors. Oliphant led the project of the European
    Group on Tort Law on public authority liability and acted as Adviser to the American Law
    Institute on the Restatement Third of Torts: Economic Harm; Torrible is a member of the
    Independent Office of Police Conduct external stakeholders group and McGuinness of the Irish
    National Screening Advisory Service.
•   Evans was awarded a KCMG for his work on torture prevention and freedom of religion in
    2016. Prabhat won the Birks Prize for Outstanding Legal Scholarship for Unleashing the Force
    of Law (2017); Bogg was awarded the Philip Leverhulme Prize in 2014. Cheng-Davies won the
    2015 John McLaren Emmerson QC prize by the Intellectual Property Association of Australia
    and New Zealand. In 2020, Masson was awarded QC (Hon) for her services to family law
    reform.


Doctoral training
•   Our academics have been involved in PhD training beyond Bristol, which supports our own
    internal expertise while contributing to the public good of the UK research student community.
    Yvette Russell coordinated a doctoral training event at the Critical Legal Conference 2018. As
    President of the British Association of Comparative Law, Giliker has organised an annual PGR
    workshop on comparative law; Bristol will host the workshop in Spring 2021. Cowan organises
    the annual SLSA PG Conference. Coggon ran a plenary skills session on peer review at the
    2019 Postgraduate Bioethics Conference. Charlesworth was co-applicant in, and (as lead for



                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
   Responsible AI) on the management team of, the UKRI Centre for Doctoral Training in
   Interactive Artificial Intelligence (a £6.8 million, five-year project).




                                                                                         Page 22
