Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Cardiff University
 Unit of Assessment 3: Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 UNIT STRUCTURE AND MISSION
 UOA3 comprises a critical mass of researchers (138.95FTE) from five Schools in Cardiff
 University’s College of Biomedical and Life Sciences: Dentistry; Healthcare Sciences; Medicine
 (Division of Population Medicine); Optometry and Vision Sciences; Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical
 Sciences. This rich interdisciplinary research environment facilitates the Unit’s mission: creation
 of new biomedical and health knowledge recognised to be internationally excellent, which realises
 societal benefit by advancing individual and population health in Wales, the UK and worldwide.
 1.1.1 Interdisciplinary research strands
 Since REF2014, the Unit’s research has coalesced around three interlinked interdisciplinary
 research strands, enhanced by cross-UOA collaboration (e.g., Clinical Medicine; Psychology,
 Psychiatry and Neurosciences (hereafter Psychology); Biological Sciences; Engineering).
    1. Biological Systems, Diagnostics and Therapies (BSDT) focuses on pathobiological
        mechanisms and development of new and improved diagnostics and therapeutics, with a
        focus on infection and immunity, cancer and neuroscience. The strand exploits strengths
        in basic science (predominantly within Dentistry, Optometry and Pharmacy), as well as
        translational capacity in pharmaceuticals and biomedical engineering. Pathways to
        improved health outcomes involve the commercial sector and practitioners/professional
        bodies, developing new products, diagnostics and therapies.
    2. Rehabilitation, Advanced Materials and Devices (RAMD) builds on strengths in patient
        rehabilitation, technologies and biomaterial products, supporting clinicians and patients to
        better manage ill-health and compromised capabilities (with strong collaboration between
        Dentistry, Healthcare Sciences, Optometry, Population Medicine, as well as Engineering).
        A major focus is musculoskeletal conditions, eye disorders, biomedical and tissue
        engineering, enhanced by significant capability in clinical trials. Pathways to improved
        health outcomes involve personalised patient management, via practitioner-focused tools
        and guidelines, as well as new technologies and products with the commercial sector.
     3. People-centred Care and Health Systems (PCHS) involves all UOA3 Schools, and
        unites researchers working on determinants of ill-health, healthcare inequalities and the
        impact of health and social care organisation. Core methodologies include qualitative,
        mixed methods research, use of large-scale record-linked health-related datasets and
        innovative clinical trials. Research foci include infection and immunity, cancer, children and
        families, and health services organisations. Pathways to impact include evaluation of new
        therapeutic interventions, as well as new healthcare policies, clinical practice guidelines
        and services reform.
 1.1.2 Summary achievements
 Successful delivery of the Unit’s strategy post-REF2014 was enabled by investment in new
 Centres, facilities and infrastructure (Section 3) and a strong focus on equality, diversity and
 inclusion (EDI), alongside targeted career support, from postgraduate research students (PGRs)
 through to senior academics (Section 2). Involvement in extensive external networks ensured our
 researchers contributed innovative disciplinary advances nationally and worldwide (Section 4).
 Core achievements included:
     • Almost a doubling in size (138.95FTE in REF201 versus 74.95FTE, REF2014).
     • Increased staff diversity (50% female staff in REF 2021 versus 33%, REF2014).
     • £142M in research awards and £99.2M of research income, the latter a 131% increase
         from REF2014 (£42.9M).
     • Transition to independence of 23 ECRs (65% female); increased PhD awards: 302.5
         versus 222, REF2014.
     • Significant investment in new facilities and technologies (£15M).

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2 RESEARCH STRATEGY
 We delivered, and exceeded, our REF2014 strategic research aims. Note, UOA3 staff (former and
 current), postdoctoral researchers and PGRs are in italics; staff from other UOAs are non-
 italicised.
 1.2.1 Aim 1: Prioritisation of interdisciplinary working
 Closer integration with Population Medicine (31.30FTE) expanded our population health and
 clinical trial expertise; this was accompanied by significant infrastructure and facilities investment
 (Section 3). For example, the Centre for Trials Research (CTR, Director Hood) is a UK-
 registered Clinical Research Collaboration Unit, established in 2015 with core funding from Health
 and Care Research Wales (HCRW, £13.3M) and Cancer Research UK (£5M). It conducts ~30-40
 clinical trials annually, e.g., CTR’s expertise in clinical evaluation of infection-related biomarkers
 (Brookes-Howell, Gillespie, Hood, Phillips, Thomas-Jones) underpinned the PACE Trial (2014-
 2017, NIHR £918K). This showed that primary care CRP point-of-care tests for chronic obstructive
 pulmonary disease reduce unnecessary antibiotic prescribing without compromising patient
 safety. It led to a 2020 NICE surveillance decision and updated guidelines for over-16s (further
 examples provided in Section 3.2.1A).
 Research Centres, such as The Centre for Development and Evaluation of Complex
 Interventions for Public Health Improvement (DECIPHer, Section 3.2.2B), further facilitated
 UOA3’s interdisciplinary research, e.g., Robling’s £500K Big Lottery ‘Confidence in Care’ trial
 defining how training of foster carers and kinship carers impacts outcomes for the fostered child.
 DECIPHer also enabled our REF2021 impact case studies, e.g., ‘Protecting children's health
 through new tobacco and e-cigarette laws’ [G.Moore]; ‘New public health measures to reduce
 harm from excess alcohol consumption’ [S.Moore].
 Cardiff’s new £12M Medicines Discovery Institute (MDI, Section 3.2.1B) brought substantial
 industrial and new technical drug discovery expertise (e.g., on structural biology and drug target
 validation), as well as knowledge taking drug candidates from concept to clinical trial. Access to
 MDI’s state-of-the-art protein crystallography facility and structural biology expertise (e.g., Bax,
 Biosciences) facilitated Mehellou’s research on novel brain penetrant SPAK/OSR1 kinase
 inhibitors for ischemic stroke (£49K, MRC Confidence in Concept).
 Cardiff’s Versus Arthritis Biomechanics and Bioengineering Centre of Excellence (hereafter
 Versus Arthritis Centre) advances treatment and rehabilitation of patients with arthritis and other
 musculoskeletal conditions, via collaboration between biomedical, healthcare and pharmaceutical
 scientists, engineers and clinicians. This Centre is an important driver of UOA3’s interdisciplinary
 working, exemplified by Prokopovich and Birchall’s collaboration with Evans (Engineering) on a
 patented drug delivery technology for preventing infection in joint and bone implants (funded by
 £800K from NIHR, Dunhill Medical Trust and Life Sciences Research Network). Sparkes and
 Button collaborate with Chambers (Psychology) on corticospinal mechanisms driving lower-limb
 activity during walking. Welsh Government Sêr Cymru funding (£116K) to Sparkes, Holt
 (Engineering) and Gibson (NHS) supported research on clinical acceptance of technology in
 remote rehabilitation (further examples Section 3.2.1C).
 Three of Cardiff’s University Research Institutes (URIs, REF5a) enable delivery of UOA3’s
 research and impact objectives (e.g., Systems Immunity; Neuroscience and Mental Health; Crime
 and Security), see examples, Section 3.2.2D. UOA3 also leads the Cardiff University Research
 Network on Health and Social Care Improvement (Allen), which brings together researchers
 from 13 Cardiff Schools, across Colleges, to develop innovative, interdisciplinary, patient-centred
 equitable healthcare. The GW4 Alliance (REF5a) further enriched UOA3’s research, e.g.,
 Paljarvi’s mHealth Network workshop (2017) brought together GW4 researchers working on health
 technology assisted interventions for health promotion and disease management; G.Moore is
 Cardiff-lead for the GW4 Health Related Behaviour Change Interventions Initiator; CTR is involved
 in the South West Research Hub, which brings together GW4 applied trial methodology
 researchers.




                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2.2 Aim 2: Increase the proportion of research informed by non-academic users
 A vital focus of activity during the REF period was co-development of research with patients, the
 public, health professionals, policy makers, professional bodies and commercial partners. We also
 committed to increasing membership and strategic influence in research-user networks
 (evidenced in Section 4). Working with primary care practitioners, patients and their families, the
 NIHR (2017, £278K) multinational mixed-methods study by Carson-Stevens (with Clinical
 Medicine) characterised patient safety incidents involving sick children in primary care. The work
 quantified rates of harmful events (30%) and led to new recommendations to reduce iatrogenic
 harm and avoidable child deaths. In collaboration with Public Health Wales, NHS partners and the
 National Childbirth Trust, the Welsh Study of Mothers and Babies (2013-2016, Phase 2, £118K
 Welsh Government/MRC, Paranjothy, Hurt) remains the largest (n=30,000) prospective cohort
 study of pregnancy outcomes associated with non-structural markers in antenatal ultrasound
 scans. The work directly informed new Antenatal Screening Wales guidelines on ultrasound
 observations for NHS Wales health professionals (implemented August 2018 across Welsh Health
 Boards).
 NHS employees as co-investigators were vital for the ‘Freedom to Speak Up Guardians’ project
 (2014-2020, NIHR, £625K, Allen, A.Jones, Kelly). This evaluated the ‘Guardian role’ in
 empowering workers to raise concerns, and how organisations responded to issues. The research
 informed the All-Wales Raising Concerns Policy and the Freedom to Speak Up NHS review.
 Margrain’s collaboration with the charity Guide Dogs underpinned delivery of positive outcomes
 from the DEPVIT trial. This highlighted high levels of depression (43%) in individuals with visual
 impairment, the impact of which is now being addressed within NHS low vision services (accessed
 by ~155,000 patients annually). The research informed Guide Dogs campaign for early mental
 health screening and management, as well as mental health training of mobility instructors.
 Complementing those examples, UOA3 researchers lead major industrial engagement networks
 (e.g., Life Sciences Research Network Wales; Celtic Advanced Life Science Innovation
 Network), and international research partnerships. For example, Birchall and Coulman’s $4.8M
 Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation project on a long-acting microneedle-based contraceptive for the
 world’s poorest countries, with an international consortium of biomedical engineers,
 pharmaceutical and manufacturing scientists, family planning NGOs and clinicians. Further
 contributions to global partnerships, and sustainability of the discipline, are described in Section
 4. Unit researchers also have long-standing commercial relationships, e.g., Coulman and
 Birchall’s work with Qualicaps® Europe developing test methods which improved the performance
 of dry powder inhaler capsules [impact case].
 Growth of partnership activities was evidenced by an increase in commercial, UK government and
 NHS income: £56M REF2021 (versus £14M in REF2014), representing 56% of our research
 income. This included £9.8M NIHR and £26.2M HCRW, as well as £11.2M commercial partners,
 income.
 1.2.3 Aim 3: Recruit, support and develop excellent researchers
 The Unit recruited 35 new researchers into Teaching and Research (T&R) roles over the REF
 period, additionally growing UOA3’s staff diversity (see Section 2) and opportunities for
 interdisciplinarity. Section 2 provides the full details, with some examples outlined here. Medicinal
 chemists Mehellou (Senior Lecturer) and Pertusati, Nannetti, Ferla, Serpi and Slusarczyk (all early
 career researcher (ECR) academics) enhanced the Unit’s strong drug discovery track-record.
 Immunologist ECR Heurich enhanced linkage with the Systems Immunity URI. She obtained a
 collaborative Wellcome Trust Innovation Award (£162K) to explore complement and coagulation
 biomarkers in psychotic disorders. Bowen also strengthened collaboration with the Systems
 Immunity URI, and grew our commercialisation expertise (e.g., via Cardiff spin-out Cotton Mouton
 Diagnostics, focused on rapid point-of-care diagnostics for infection, see Section 4.4). Additional
 appointments strengthened capacity in the Versus Arthritis Centre (and Systems Immunity URI),
 specifically in drug delivery technologies, biomaterials, biofilms and microbial infection (e.g., Hill
 develops multi-species biofilm models designed to support product-derived antimicrobial therapies
 for cystic fibrosis). Targeted appointments in vision sciences enhanced collaboration with the
 Neuroscience and Mental Health URI (e.g., funding from The Dystonia Society and Fight for Sight

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supported ECR Mcilreavy’s research using eye-tracking to investigate visual function and motor
 perception in aging, with Peall, Psychology). Mander strengthened CTR’s expertise in statistics,
 particularly in the development of novel adaptive trial designs.
 1.3 IMPACT STRATEGY
 Delivery of outstanding impact was core to our post-REF2014 strategy. We empowered our
 researchers to understand the translational potential of their work and develop active partnerships
 and synergies with external stakeholders. Alongside increased research income with healthcare
 and clinical partners (Section 1.2.2), we saw an increase in collaborative research user
 partnerships and delivery of meaningful benefits to research users, e.g., 49% of REF2021 outputs
 were co-authored with the NHS, health authorities, government, private and commercial sector.
 1.3.1 Impact support
 Impact activity is recognised, supported and rewarded through annual Performance Development
 Reviews (PDRs), workload allocations and promotion benchmarks (Section 2). UOA3 has a
 mature impact network, led by School Directors of Research (DoRs) and strengthened by six
 ‘impact champions’, specifically academic and professional services staff with considerable impact
 expertise. These individuals facilitate training and translational activities; identify gaps and relevant
 funding opportunities; define key indicators of success; and promote engagement with cognate
 users. Mentoring of those undertaking impact is also provided by staff with a track-record of
 successful impact (e.g., Allen, Busse; Gumbleton, Margrain, G.Moore). Complementary support is
 available through the University’s Research and Innovation Services, from early-stage training to
 protection of intellectual property and commercialisation (see Section 3, and REF5a).
 As well as key networks (described in Section 4), Unit researchers are supported by our new Joint
 Clinical Research Office with NHS Wales (REF5a) and the Health Board Clinical Innovation
 multi-disciplinary team (MDT, established 2014; Gumbleton member). These entities facilitate
 effective clinical translation between the NHS and the University, including direct support for
 technical, clinical and regulatory matters; financial expertise for translational projects; and
 development of effective external collaborations with users and beneficiaries, including access to
 Welsh SMEs developing new healthcare and medical diagnostics and technologies. Capacity was
 further expanded by the University’s new Clinical Innovation Accelerator (ACCELERATE;
 Gumbleton, Westwell, Co-Is), a £24M (Cardiff £8.4M, 2018-2021) European Regional
 Development Fund project with Swansea and University of Wales Trinity St David (see Section
 4.4 for example projects). UOA3 Research Centres also have excellent user and patient-public
 involvement (PPI) networks (e.g., DECIPHer’s Public Health Improvement Research Network and
 School Health Research Network, the latter involving 300 young people across Wales in the co-
 creation of research). Our PPI networks ensure that UOA3 research is developed aligned to the
 needs of key beneficiaries and other research users; details in Section 4.3.
 1.3.2 REF2021 impact case studies
 Facilitated by impact support, UOA3 staff delivered a large and diverse suite of impact activities
 during the REF period, across all three research strands (e.g., examples noted in Section 1.2, and
 throughout the statement). UOA3’s nine REF2021 impact case studies were selected based on
 their maturity and reach, while ensuring that breadth of research impact was evidenced (see
 Section 3.1 for details of REF2021 delivery). The cases cover (aligned to BSDT) new diagnostic
 and therapeutic processes and products (Brancale, Coulman, Maillard); (aligned to RAMD) clinical
 practice and practice guidelines (Busse, Joseph-Williams); and (aligned to PCHS) health and
 welfare policy (Chestnutt, Shepherd, G.Moore, S.Moore).
 Maillard’s research demonstrating the ineffectiveness of clinical antimicrobial wipes led to a new
 protocol adopted as an American Society for Testing and Materials International Standard.
 Further, working with a leading UK wipe manufacturer (GAMA Healthcare), Maillard facilitated the
 development of new products delivering £8M in new revenue, as well as a new £4M research and
 development facility. Brancale and colleagues’ research on cellular barriers to nucleoside drugs
 delivered new clinical-experimental anti-cancer candidates which allowed a UK SME (NuCana
 plc) to raise £189M investment in the REF period, and progress three Cardiff ProTide compounds


                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 through Phase I to Phase III clinical studies, with encouraging outcomes for a range of advanced
 tumour types (e.g., biliary tract cancer, which currently has no approved drug treatment).
 Researchers in Dentistry worked with NHS practitioners, patients and the wider public to provide
 evidence to the Welsh Government on their £3.1M per annum (p.a.) Design-to-Smile national oral
 health programme for young children (Chestnutt). Cardiff’s finding led Welsh Government to
 change its policy and practice, specifically moving away from fissure sealants to fluoride varnish,
 as well as targeting oral health in children under-five. The research also provided the evidence
 base for a NICE guideline for Public Health England, focused on improving oral health initiatives.
 Co-creation with patients and NHS practitioners was key to Joseph-Williams and her team’s work
 on barriers to shared decision-making (SDM). Cardiff’s new ‘three-talk’ SDM model was
 embedded within a national training programme in Wales, also informing UK SDM healthcare
 policies and international guidelines on minimum standards for patient decision aids. Busse’s
 research partnership with Rosser (Biosciences) on physiotherapy and supported physical activity
 led to revised international guidelines for Huntington’s Disease, which have been utilised by
 international Huntington’s Disease Associations (e.g., in Europe, China, United States). Further
 UOA3 impact outcomes are described in Sections 3 and 4. UOA3 researchers working on early-
 stage impact development continue to be provided with ongoing support and investment, via the
 mechanisms outlined in Section 1.3.1, as well as early-stage funding (see Section 3).
 1.4 FUTURE RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY
 UOA3’s future research and impact strategy builds on the success of our REF2014 strategic
 mission, with the aim of further accelerating discovery of new knowledge able to deliver major
 healthcare benefits in Wales, the UK and internationally. It will be revisited regularly, ensuring
 consideration of COVID-19 impacts on research, and UOA3 researchers.
Aim 1. Continue to develop an inclusive research environment which supports, attracts and
retains the very best staff, both established academics and early career researchers.
Specific objectives include:
   i.    Expansion of our ECR community through mentorship of promising young researchers,
         alongside strategic external recruitment to capture prestigious independent fellowships
         which strengthen collaboration across research strands, and with other synergistic
         disciplines. Key growth areas include: precision medicine, specifically integrating basic and
         molecular sciences with population and clinical sciences; pre-/non-clinical in-vivo
         experimentation aligned to drug discovery; advanced therapies (cells and genes) and bio-
         responsive therapeutics and diagnostics; research in practice and service change across
         health and health-related social care, further enhanced through epidemiology, health
         economics and qualitative/mixed-methods research expertise.
   ii.   Continue to build a sustained clinical academic pipeline, through active participation in
         NIHR Fellowship Schemes; via disciplinary expansion of our joint GW4 Clinical Academic
         Training programme; and the Wales Clinical Academic Training Scheme. This will be
         complemented by enhanced support for allied health professionals through the Research
         Capacity Building Collaboration (RCBC) Wales programme (see Section 2).
  iii.   Continue to deliver positive EDI initiatives which promote inclusion, including leadership
         mentoring of individuals from underrepresented groups, alongside a coordinated external
         appointment strategy which advances diversity, while maximising opportunities for
         interdisciplinarity and impact. Build on our School Athena Swan action plans, sharing best
         practice as part of a coordinated EDI approach.
 Aim 2. Grow our portfolio of large-scale research projects by capitalising on our
 interdisciplinary Centres and Institutes and continue to nurture and increase our network
 of external research collaborators.
  i.     Invest in, and successfully compete for, new funding aligned to growing collaborative
         research across UOA3’s new Centres and facilities. Aligned to national research needs,
         we will develop an Advanced Therapies (cells, genes and viral) GMP manufacturing facility
         enhancing our researchers’ ability to develop and evaluate new therapies for patients,

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        linked to Cardiff’s strengths in infection and immunity, cancer and neuroscience. New cross
        HEI collaborations will further foster growth, for example, via collaboration with the new
        £130M London-based Oriel Eye Care Hub (2021, Research England/Department of
        Health) and UK Vision Research Institute.
  ii.   Through mutually beneficial partnerships, we will further develop our translational activities
        (e.g., Cardiff’s Medicines Discovery Institute and UK Dementia Research Institute Centre
        provide a unique opportunity for UOA3 to align its current drug discovery strengths to
        neuroscience). We will also grow PCHS’s strengths in child development and adolescent
        health aligned to Cardiff’s new £56.5M Social Sciences Research Park, as well as the
        University’s recently awarded £10M Wolfson Centre for Young People’s Mental Health
        (REF5a).
 Aim 3. Support our staff to continue to address major global healthcare-related challenges
 and the unmet needs of our stakeholder communities.
  i.    Continue equitable and transparent use of research and impact funding, workload
        allocations and mentoring to ensure all Unit researchers have the time and resources to
        develop the translational potential of their research, enhanced by Cardiff’s planned
        investments in University Innovation Institutes and professional support for impact
        (REF5a).
  ii.   Expand the Unit’s Impact Support Network (Section 1.3) and ensure provision of funding
        for proof-of-concept impact activities. Sustain the Unit’s strong success with external
        funding in partnership with networks, and grow commercial and licensing success, aligned
        to Aim 2 (see Section 3).
 iii.   Promote and grow public and patient involvement within the UOA3-linked Research
        Centres, ensuring co-creation of research and impact aligned to the needs of our
        stakeholders and beneficiaries (see Section 4.3).
 1.5 OPEN RESEARCH, RESEARCH INTEGRITY AND ETHICS
 The Unit is committed to open research practices, and is fully compliant with, and in some areas
 exceeds, Cardiff University’s policies (REF5a). All UOA3 Schools have Open Access (OA)
 coordinators who oversee OA staff training and ensure compliance with funders’ requirements
 (Green or Gold). All post-print files and bibliographic details for outputs are held in Cardiff’s OA
 repository. Following Research England’s guidance, 100% of Category A staff have ORCID iDs.
 The Unit follows the principles of the San Francisco Declaration of Research Assessment (DORA)
 e.g., in recruitment, promotion and assessment of research quality. UOA3 goes beyond the
 Concordat on Open Research Data (e.g., via collection and reporting of primary data to
 governments and other stakeholders aligned to healthcare delivery and policy initiatives). For
 example, Sivarajasingam coordinates the National Violence Surveillance Network, which works
 with the Office for National Statistics and informs the Crime in England and Wales Statistical
 bulletins. This underpins our research on violent crime, e.g., Shepherd’s [impact case].
 Rigorous governance around research integrity and ethics is fundamental to the conduct of high-
 quality research, with staff and PGRs required to complete the University’s mandatory online
 research integrity training (REF5a). The Unit’s Schools each host a Research Ethics Committee
 (SREC) that considers discipline-specific issues in the design and conduct of research studies.
 SRECs meet monthly to review applications and report to the University’s Open Research Integrity
 and Ethics Committee. The CTR Director (Hood) and College Dean of Research and Innovation
 (Westwell) sit on this Committee. The College Human Tissue Act Officer (Stephens) is lead for the
 Cardiff University Biobank (Section 3.3). Research involving human-derived materials is
 conducted under Human Tissue Authority licences and research involving animal species is
 regulated under the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986.




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People
 2.1 EQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
 We are committed to recruiting and developing excellent researchers. EDI is embedded within our
 people strategy, evidenced through our senior leadership teams and extensive staff development
 initiatives. EDI was also firmly embedded in our REF2021 delivery (Section 3.1).
 Highlights since REF2014 include:
    • An increase in Unit size to 147 staff (138.95FTE) from 84 (74.95FTE, REF2014)
    • Increased staff diversity, with 50% female staff (versus 33% in REF2014)
    • Improved promotion opportunities (e.g., 60 promotions since REF2014, of which 53% were
        female)
    • Success supporting ECR transition to independence (23 researchers, 65% female)
    • Increased PhD completions, 302.5 (a 36% increase from 222 in REF2014)
 Our commitment to EDI begins at the top. Since REF2014, UOA3 had nine female Heads (or
 Deputy Heads) of School (HoS) or Division (e.g., Votruba, Paranjothy, Waterman, Hood, Nelson),
 two female DoRs (Albon, Allen) and five female Directors of PGR (e.g., E.Lane, Knauper). At the
 census date, 50% of Senior Management Team Leaders were female. The College’s current
 Deans of Research and Innovation (Westwell), Postgraduate (Kidd) and International (Stephens)
 are UOA3 researchers, evidencing significant contributions to University research leadership. Unit
 researchers also lead research strategy at College level (e.g., Sheeran, Brain and Purcell are
 Theme and Associate Theme Leads for Population Health). Former colleague Paranjothy was the
 first female and BAME individual to hold the prestigious Mansel Talbot endowed Chair; she was
 also Director, Division of Population Medicine. Since REF2014 all six new HoS completed Cardiff’s
 bespoke Heads of School training programme (REF5a); College Deans also completed Cardiff’s
 Deans’ Development Programme (established 2018).
 Each of UOA3’s Schools has continuously held Bronze or Silver Athena Swan awards since 2014,
 with renewal pending for Healthcare Sciences. EDI is embedded within the agendas of Research
 Committees and Senior Management Team, with regular reports on initiatives and progress
 aligned to each School’s EDI strategy. Initiatives since REF2014 include: a maternity, paternity,
 adoption and surrogacy scheme, providing funding for individuals on leave where a grant-funder
 does not cover costs; safe environments for expressing breast milk; a more inclusive focus on
 match-funding for Fellowship applications (benefitting Bassetto, Serpi and Slusarczyk); gender-
 balanced inclusion of ECRs on Research Committees; job-sharing initiatives for research staff
 following maternity leave; a revised academic recruitment approach (developed with an external
 agency, Diversity by Design), which aimed to increase engagement of applicants from diverse
 backgrounds, identities and experiences.
 2.2 STAFF RECRUITMENT
 Since REF2014, UOA3 grew by 63 staff, of which 23 were ECRs. This was achieved through (a)
 new T&R recruitment (35 new staff, 57% female); (b) R-only staff moves to independence (15,
 66% female); and (c) integration of 34 staff from the Division of Population Medicine (including 19
 (12 female) CTR researchers). The latter supported our strategic goal to grow our PCHS research
 strand. Our staff cohort moved from 33% female in REF2014 to 50% in REF2021 (74 of 147 staff).
 Support for BAME staff facilitated new leadership roles (Paranjothy) and successful promotion
 (e.g., Wei to Senior Lecturer; Sivarajasingam to Professor). We increased our BAME researchers
 to six, from one (REF2014).
 2.2.1   New appointments
 Appointments strengthened capacity across UOA3’s research strands, aligned, where possible,
 to increased linkage with UOA3 interdisciplinary Research Centres and Institutes (Sections 1.2
 and 3.2). Applications were encouraged from underrepresented groups (e.g., Harvey Nash
 Consulting supported recruitment of a new Dentistry HoS, with the brief to generate an inclusive
 short-list; this led to appointment of N.Innes (initially honorary, full move 1/08/20), bringing new
 expertise in clinical dentistry augmenting PCHS). Five further female appointments into PCHS

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 focused on: patient and healthcare decision-making, specifically medicines management (Weiss,
 Professor); applied psychology and behavioural change (Bundy, Professor); cognitive
 neuroscience of motor control and movement (Purcell, Reader); palliative care in advanced
 cancer, including patient experiences of immunotherapy (Watts, Senior Lecturer); midwifery
 clinical trials (Sanders, a joint NHS-University Professorial appointment, who also holds senior
 NIHR leadership roles). These positions also supported cross-College interdisciplinary research
 (e.g., Purcell’s collaboration with Psychology on motor control in Developmental Coordination
 Disorder). Recruitment of Mander as CTR Professor of Statistics brought new expertise in novel
 adaptive trials and accelerated UOA3’s ability to translate fundamental research into population-
 level interventions and policy formation.
 Research in our BSDT and RAMD themes benefitted from new drug delivery and biomaterials
 expertise aligned to combating complex infections [Hill, Pritchard] and Farnell’s applied
 mathematical research, bolstering UOA3’s leading position in 3D facial imaging and genetics.
 Whitaker’s research on sensory time (how we perceive the duration and temporal order of events),
 and recruitment of Mcilreavy (an ECR clinician), enabled new research on visual function in
 patients with nystagmus. New clinical lecturer Terry uses artificial intelligence to study choroidal
 vasculature in age-related macular degeneration, with Koudouna focusing on cell-matrix
 interactions defining tissue structure and function. Pertusati moved into his first lectureship, and
 alongside recruitment of senior lecturer Mehellou, strengthened delivery of UOA3’s promising pro-
 nucleotide (ProTide) drug discovery work (see Section 1.3.2).
 Recruitment of C.Thomas and Heurich to their first lectureships bolstered expertise in oxidised
 lipids, complement cascade and coagulation biology (building links with Cardiff’s Systems
 Immunity URI, Section 3.2.2D). Appointment of Bowen, who researches point-of-care diagnostic
 devices aligned to sepsis and infection, further enhanced links with the URI. As Director and co-
 founder of Cotton Mouton Diagnostics Ltd (see Section 4.4), Bowen also augmented UOA3
 expertise in commercial development. Newland’s research on nano, micro and macroscale
 materials supported closer partnership with Cardiff’s Neuroscience and Mental Health URI and
 grew international partnerships (via his collaborations with Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell
 Biology and Genetics, Dresden; University of Antwerp).
 Cardiff’s Disglair Lectureship Scheme (REF5a) recruited Nannetti and Mead into BSDT. Nannetti
 augmented capability on new antiviral drugs, with Mead bringing new expertise, and key US
 collaborations, on treatment of eye diseases. Mead notes of Disglair, “The gap between a post-
 doctoral researcher and lecturer can often seem wide and the scheme has been very helpful in
 making the crossing of this gap smoother and less daunting without reducing the research
 potential and independent success that comes with being a lecturer”. Facilitated by his Disglair
 award, Nannetti obtained a £50K Wellcome Trust ISSF grant to study development of innovative
 anti-fever compounds.
 2.2.2   Fellowships
 Bassetto, Ferla, Nannetti and Pritchard obtained fellowships from the prestigious Welsh
 Government Sêr Cymru II scheme. All continue to build successful academic careers (e.g.,
 Pritchard was awarded further funding from industry (Venture Life Group, £73K), Welsh
 Government (Sêr Cymru Accelerator Award, £5K) and KESS2 (PhD studentship, £88K); Bassetto
 obtained a Chemistry lectureship at Swansea). Koudouna is a current Marie Skłodowska-Curie
 Fellow, with Slusarczyk and Serpi holding research fellowship positions, involving commercial
 partner NuCana. This supported Serpi’s move into her first lectureship (Chemistry, Cardiff,
 01/10/20).
 Healthcare and clinical ECR investment included five Research Capacity Building Collaboration
 (RCBC Wales) postdoctoral fellowships (e.g., Davies, J.Baillie, Sheeran, £459K). J.Baillie
 previously worked as a staff nurse in Nephrology and Transplant at Cardiff and Vale University
 Health Board. She undertook a RCBC PhD in Healthcare Sciences, prior to obtaining an RCBC
 postdoctoral fellowship on patients’ and families’ experience of dialysis-associated peritonitis.
 Sheeran’s RCBC postdoctoral fellowship supported her work with BACK-on-LINETM (Section 4.4).
 Other fellowships included: Versus Arthritis (Adamczyk), Fulbright Scholar (Taussig) and four
 HCRW Fellowships (e.g., Gillespie, Latchem). Latchem’s collaboration with Kitzinger on patient-

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 centred care for those in vegetative or minimally conscious states led to a REF2021 impact case
 (Journalism). Her current project FEAST identifies how mealtimes and food-based activities can
 enhance quality of life for young people with neurological conditions in long-term care.
 2.3 STAFF DEVELOPMENT
 2.3.1   Staff wellbeing
 Staff wellbeing is afforded the highest priority, supported by Cardiff’s Wellbeing Team, services,
 resources and policies (REF5a). UOA3’s has 23 Dignity and Wellbeing contacts across all staff
 categories. Trained in mental health first aid (e.g., “i-act”), they help staff identify appropriate
 support services within and outside the University. The Unit’s wellbeing strategy is informed by
 Cardiff’s biennial staff survey and direct staff consultation. Initiatives developed from staff
 suggestions include: Staff Forums, covering presentations on wellbeing, work-life balance and
 coaching; drop boxes for feedback and improvement ideas; staff training on mental health first aid.
 11 UOA3 staff (across four Schools) have formal flexible working, with many others benefiting
 from informally agreed flexible arrangements. In Optometry, for example, 26% of research active
 staff work part-time. Seventeen staff took maternity leave during the REF period (across all
 Schools), with staff actively supported in their return to work, through keeping-in-touch days,
 phased returns and reduced teaching/administrative workloads. For example, E.Lane was
 provided with a research day per week for a year, plus support from a research assistant. She has
 been promoted twice since her maternity leave, and successfully obtained a £217K MRC grant on
 hESC-derived transplants in Parkinson’s disease. Heurich did not undertake teaching for a year
 after her maternity leave and is now a successful co-PI on a £1.3M Wellcome Trust Innovation
 Award with the Irish Royal College of Surgeons. Brookes-Howell, Dewitt, Ferguson, Pritchard and
 F.Wood were also provided with reduced hours and flexible working after maternity leave. F.Wood
 now holds a research leadership role as Director of PGR for Population Medicine, with Ferguson
 acting as Impact lead in Dentistry.
 All Schools have core working hours and schedule meetings to avoid the beginning and end of
 the day providing flexibility to drop off and pick up children. Seminars are scheduled to facilitate
 staff attendance (e.g., 2pm on Wednesdays in Pharmacy; or rotated across days to support
 clinicians with set commitments, Population Medicine). Funding is also available for e-conferences
 (e.g., Brain’s attendance, Cancer and Primary Care Research International Conference).
 All Schools transitioned to e-seminars during the COVID-19 epidemic and provided mechanisms
 for staff to keep in contact with each other, maintaining staff wellbeing. Staff also benefitted from
 enhanced University support (REF5a), particularly off-site working, dependency leave, facilitated
 access to laboratory and clinical research facilities. University-funded PGR student extensions
 and campus study spaces were provided, and particularly relevant to UOA3, support where staff
 served the NHS or national research effort (e.g., Maillard’s work on personal protective equipment;
 Brain’s research on early cancer diagnosis; Bundy’s role on the Technical Advisory Group,
 informing the Welsh Government’s COVID-19 Scientific Advisory Group, as well as rapid review
 of COVID-19 research applications). In the first lockdown, the University Dental Hospital also
 operated as the sole regional Dental Care Centre, seeing over 10,000 patients, supported by
 university clinical staff.
 2.3.2   Promotion
 Annual PDRs provide staff with input on promotion and career ambitions, including discussion of
 training needs, and institutional academic and performance expectations (Cardiff Academic and
 Cardiff Professional). Based on his PDR, A.Wood was supported to attend an MRC accredited
 course ‘Improving Health by Improving Trials’ at Liverpool University. This enhanced his
 knowledge of clinical trials and led to co-investigator status on an application for a multicentre
 clinical trial of a novel therapeutic for early-stage macular disease (£753K, AltRegen Ltd., with City
 University and UK Astronomy Technology Centre). Unit staff also benefit from participation in
 Cardiff’s new Academic Promotions Development Programme (for Readers who identify as
 BAME, female or both and who aspire to promotion to Professor).
 60 Unit staff (53% female) were successfully promoted since REF2014, of which 15 were
 promoted twice (indicated with a *), e.g., promoted to Senior Lecturer: Acton, Albon, Castell,

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Courtier, Coulman, Ferguson, Gale, Hemming, Hurt, J.Lewis, Joseph-Williams, Mehellou,
 Prokopovich, Rozanowska, Segrott, Wei; Reader: Anstey*, Blain*, N.Evans*, E.Lane*, Moseley,
 Button*, Featherstone, Boote*, Knupp, Farewell, Heard, Hiscox, Sakellariou*, Sheeran*, Simons,
 Purcell, Playle, White; Senior Research Fellow: Gillespie; Townson; Brookes-Howell; Al-Amri;
 Thomas-Jones; Cannings-John; Principal Research Fellow: Mcnamara; Chair: Brain*,
 Brancale*, Busse*, Erichsen, Hannigan, Hughes, A.Jones*, AT.Jones, G.Moore*, Margrain,
 Marshall, Mason, Moseley, Nelson, Robling*, Ryan, Sivarajasingam, Sparkes, Westwell,
 F.Wood*.
 Cardiff’s R-only promotion route to Principal and Senior Research Fellow are an important route
 to equality in UOA3, where Research Centres (e.g., CTR) have a large proportion of staff on R-
 only contracts, compared to T&R.
 2.3.3   Career development
 A Workload Allocation Model ensures equitable, flexible and transparent allocation of academic
 activities, aligned to PDR discussions. Staff are given time to pursue research and impact goals,
 with inclusion of at least 0.4FTE for research, complemented by further allocations aligned to
 impact, external research activities (e.g., REF or grant funder panellists), civic mission and public
 engagement (e.g., for staff supporting UOA3’s Pharmabees project, see Section 4.3.2). As noted
 in Section 1.3.1, UOA3’s impact champions, and staff working on impact projects, are provided
 with workload allocations (e.g., 60 hours dedicated to impact activities in Optometry). Early, and
 less-developed impact, which was not submitted to REF2021 continues to be supported via
 continuing workload allocations, impact funding (see Section 3) and secondment opportunities.
 Complementing School research leave schemes, five UOA3 staff benefited from the University
 Research Leave Scheme (between 2015-2019). Brain’s leave in 2015-2016 catalysed successful
 awards on cancer screening and early diagnosis and supported promotion to Professor of Health
 Psychology. She was named Chwarae Teg’s (Fair Play’s) Wonderful Welsh Woman of the Year
 Award finalist, 2018. Research leave linked to the Disglair Lectureship Scheme supported three
 UOA3 staff (Erichsen, Redmond, Brancale, 2019-2020). During his research leave, Redmond
 wrote a £1.8M MRC DPFS grant with Ulster University and UCL on glaucoma, and novel visual
 field acuity measures for use in clinical settings (awarded post-REF2021 census date).
 All new UOA3 ECR academics are supported to achieve research excellence through training
 following an integrated academic induction programme designed to achieve HEA Fellowship
 status. Seventeen Unit staff undertook further Cardiff leadership training (e.g., Moving into
 Leadership; Practical Leadership for University Management; Professorial Leadership). Eight took
 part in the Vice-Chancellor’s Cardiff Futures programme (supporting promotion for Ferguson and
 Playle). The award-winning Welsh Crucible programme involved five Unit participants (Bowen,
 Castell, Ferguson, Newland, Redmond), and facilitated Ferguson’s successful £400K MRC New
 Investigator grant on antibiotic polymer conjugates. GW4 Crucible brings together future research
 leaders across the Alliance, with three UOA3 staff participating since REF2014, e.g., Pritchard
 and Serpi participated in the 2020 GW4 Interdisciplinary Approaches to Antimicrobial Resistance
 programme. This catalysed Serpi’s collaboration with Laabei (Bath), Duggan (Bristol), Malavia and
 Stappers (both Exeter) on antimicrobials to treat human pathogens.
 Pitch-to-peer sessions, led by senior researchers, supported those applying for grants, with
 provision of feedback at an early-stage helping deliver increased success with funding (Section
 3.1). This approach supported E.Lane, Redmond and A.Wood’s grant successes (mentioned
 earlier). Mentorship is provided to staff writing grants and outputs, especially those less
 experienced in applying for funding, and all Schools have peer-review processes providing grant
 feedback from expert reviewers. Researchers are provided with funding to support their research
 needs, whether training, conferences, fieldwork or collection of pilot data. Pharmacy, for example,
 provides funding from overheads into holding accounts, while CTR has pooled funding into a single
 development account, supporting training and conference attendance. Staff and PGRs can apply
 to Research and/or Staff Development Committees for funding for training, conferences or to
 generate pilot data (e.g., Optometry supports early-stage research ideas via a £15K per annum
 seed-corn funding scheme). Annual research away days ensure staff actively contribute to the
 development of UOA3 research and impact strategies.

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Cardiff University Research Opportunities Programme (REF5a) supported 82 undergraduate
 research placements, e.g., Harvey, from Engineering, built a 3D printer speeding up creation of
 microfluidics with Castell, leading to funding on COVID-19 point-of-care tests (Sêr Cymru, £142K,
 awarded post-REF census date).
 2.3.4   Postdoctoral researcher development
 176 (R-only) postdoctoral researchers were recruited since REF 2014, with all UOA3 Schools
 committed to applying the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 (REF5a). As well as supportive PDRs, grant application peer review and mentorship schemes (as
 described in Section 2.3.3), our R-only researchers benefit from targeted funding, leadership and
 training schemes.
 For example, Cardiff’s Wellcome Trust ISSF has specific R-only and ECR academic career
 development schemes. UOA3 received 43 ISSF awards (£1.57M, over 25% of the total available),
 including seven early-career Consolidator Awards. For example, Baxani’s Consolidator Award
 with Castell resulted in a REF output (on artificial cells from compartmentalised droplet networks)
 and a subsequent postdoctoral position (Imperial Molecular Sciences Research Hub). The Unit
 received two ISSF Reconnect with Science Awards, providing tailored support for individuals to
 undertake research after a career break. Elbetany used the scheme to publish first author research
 outputs, and obtain proof-of-concept pilot data, designed to support grant applications in
 antimicrobial resistance and wound healing. Other UOA3 ISSF beneficiaries included ECR
 academic Hamana who co-produced a walking (physical therapies) programme for people with
 Huntington's disease with Busse. ISSF Consolidator, Shologu, who moved from Ireland to Cardiff
 after her PhD, was funded to develop Science Pirates (2019), a pirate-themed ‘Escape Room’
 engaging the public on exercise and bone health (over 200 attendees). Cardiff R-only staff, and
 ECR academics, observe ISSF grant panels, enhancing understanding of grant assessment
 (REF5a).
 Many R-only staff benefitted from Cardiff’s Research and Innovation Services’ portfolio of
 dedicated research support programmes, including an ‘ECR Pathways to Impact’ course, as well
 as training and support around translation and commercialisation (Section 3.3). The University
 also runs a structured Fellowship Support Programme, comprising interactive six-monthly
 workshops focused on grant funding, grant writing and peer review, and additionally providing an
 informal peer-to-peer fellow network. Unit ECRs were supported via externally facilitated research
 grant writing workshops, such as those run by Parker Derrington Ltd., a company supporting
 training and mentoring on writing research grant and fellowship applications. Twenty ECRs and
 PGRs also attended an external fast track impact workshop, covering the generation, evaluation
 and evidencing of impact, and working with external stakeholders. Our R-only staff also accessed
 training opportunities provided by GW4 partners (e.g., the GW4 RCUK mock panel grant training,
 including NERC, MRC and BBSRC, C.Thomas, Koudouna).
 The Cardiff University Research Staff Association (CURSA), open to all research staff,
 independent of career stage, provides a voice to influence the University’s research and innovation
 strategy. S.Morgan (Optometry) serves on the CURSA executive team. R-only and ECR
 academics are involved in UOA3 Research and EDI Committees allowing them to contribute to
 School strategic decision-making. Publication policies ensure that ECRs are appropriately credited
 and encouraged when writing as first authors. ECRs are also fully involved in supporting seminar
 series and given the opportunity to meet leading figures in the field. For example, RCBC Wales
 PhD students and postdoctoral fellows have a regular interdisciplinary Community of Scholars
 meeting, involving discussions of scientific disciplines, research methodologies and opportunities
 for mentoring and peer support. The strong distribution of ECRs across the Unit’s three research
 strands provides a further opportunity for the development of interdisciplinary research
 approaches, ensuring translation of research knowledge to clinical benefit. This varied and
 supportive approach to UOA3 R-only staff enhances their future research careers, whether by
 transition into fellowships (Section 2.2.2), new T&R positions (Section 2.2.1) or a move into other
 sectors (e.g., Wymant became public engagement officer for the charity Shine; Piggott worked
 initially for Cancer Research Technology, before being appointed as a senior scientist at
 Debiopharm, a Swiss biopharmaceutical company).


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.3.5   Developing research clinicians
 UOA3’s research is grounded on clinical foundations, with some staff joining as expert clinicians
 or teacher-practitioners on Teaching and Scholarship (T&S) contracts. U.Jones (T&S), for
 example, worked with Busse on physiotherapy interventions in Huntington’s Disease and is now
 lead of the European Huntington’s Disease Network physiotherapy working group. Support is
 provided for career pathway change to T&R, including PhD enrolment (via a tuition fee waiver,
 research expenses, and allocated research time). RCBC (Wales) First into Research Awards also
 help clinicians and practitioners develop a competitive PhD funding application; UOA3 received
 11 of these awards since REF2014 (£76.7K). For example, Smith (T&S) used the RCBC First into
 Research Award to secure a funded PhD studentship on diagnostic ultrasound imaging of
 shoulder disorders (£170K, Versus Arthritis). In total, eight staff in Healthcare Sciences completed
 PhDs during the REF period (one funded by RCBC, £62.5K).
 Mentorship and an agreed workload reduction ensure delivery of research outcomes designed to
 support a career pathway change, and since REF2014, four UOA3 staff successfully transferred
 from T&S to T&R. For example, N.Evans, secured a Health Foundation award to undertake a PhD,
 focussing on child adolescent mental health. She subsequently obtained funding for three NIHR
 studies, a Florence Nightingale Travel award and a Global Opportunities Research Fund grant (in
 total, £379K). In 2017, she was awarded the RCN (Wales) Research in Nursing award and was
 promoted to Reader in 2018. Flexibility within the workload model allows T&S staff to contribute
 as expert clinicians (e.g., Delport brought their clinical expertise in autistic spectrum disorders to
 an £1.2M NIHR project (SenITA, 2016-2021) focused on a randomised controlled trial of sensory
 integration therapy in autism (with Brookes-Howell, Busse, Gillespie, McNamara).
 2.4 POSTGRADUATE RESEARCHERS
 PGRs form a core element of UOA3’s research community, further developed in this REF period,
 with particular success in recruitment and development of new tailored support. Postgraduate
 programmes are aligned to disciplinary requirements and managed by the Directors of PGR,
 supported by an administrative team. Postgraduate Research Committees meet regularly to
 oversee formal monitoring processes. Student-staff panels operate to represent the interests of
 the postgraduate community, reporting to Boards of Study and Research Committees.
 2.4.1   PGR Recruitment
 We are committed to an inclusive approach that promotes EDI, achieves disciplinary excellence
 and supports our diverse PGR community. Our funded programmes have specific recruitment
 approaches, which include measures to promote inclusive recruitment (e.g., anonymised
 applications, unconscious bias-trained interviewers, diverse interview panels and interview slots
 for students who self-report as BAME and disabled). Formal recruitment involves advertising
 through www.findaphd.com and the University website. After triage, a consistent interview process
 is implemented, with at 2-3 interviewers, including brief research presentations followed by
 questions about research, projects and careers.
 UO3 currently has 213 PhD and MD students (134 female; 79 male), with international students
 making up 41% of the PGR student body (mostly recruited across Europe and Asia). PhD
 completions since REF2014 were 302.5 (versus 222, REF2014).
 Financial support for PGRs included University DTEs (e.g., GW4 MRC BioMed); KESS
 (additionally involving 18 companies and NGOs); China Scholarship Council; RCBC, HCRW and
 NIHR; Life Sciences Research Network. The Unit also secured studentships from charities and
 NGOs, e.g., British Heart Foundation, Versus Arthritis, Abbeyfield Research Foundation, College
 of Optometrists, Fight for Sight UK, British Skin Foundation, Macular Society, Council for At-Risk
 Academics and Russian Federation. Industry studentships were provided by Unit partners (e.g.,
 Qualicaps; Reckitt Benckiser). PhD funding was also provided for displaced international scholars
 (e.g., Al Dalaty, Council for At-Risk Academics).
 The Welsh Government Academic Fellows Scheme provides initial support for clinicians to
 undertake research, placing them in a competitive position to obtain PhD funding (e.g., Sanyaolu,
 from the Wales Centre for Primary and Emergency Care Research Centre, obtained a HCRW


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Doctoral Fellowship focused on antimicrobial resistance via this scheme). The Unit’s current 231
 externally funded studentships were complemented by 79 UOA3-funded studentships.

 2.4.2   PGR support
 PGRs are allocated personal desk-space and a computer with printer access. They receive
 support from their PhD supervisors' research funds and can apply to School Research Committees
 for additional funding (e.g., for conferences and external training events), e.g., Diani (£689) for
 EMBL PhD Symposia, Heidelberg, Germany (2018); Lamborne (£1200) two-week visit to MRC
 Protein Phosphorylation Unit, Dundee (2019); Ogle (£1500) presentation International Society for
 Zinc Biology, Kyoto, Japan (2019). PGRs also obtained external funding for conference
 attendance (e.g., Davies and Hodges, Brocher Foundation Scholarships to travel to Geneva).
 PhD students are supported to self-evaluate their training needs. While there is variation in training
 associated with different PhD schemes, Cardiff expects all PGR students to have six-monthly and
 annual monitoring meetings, including ongoing training needs analysis. Mock vivas are designed
 to ensure a successful outcome. Every PhD student benefits from a supervisory team which
 includes a designated main supervisor; many students also benefit from larger interdisciplinary
 research teams. Supervision is managed strategically across UOA3 to enhance interdisciplinarity
 and facilitate development of supervisory skills in junior staff (e.g., 18 current PGRs are jointly
 supervised across UOA3 disciplines). PGRs are also given a mentor, from outside the supervisory
 team, who provides guidance and pastoral care.
 Annual PGR ‘return to studies’ workshops help identify challenges students might experience at
 different stages of their research. This is complemented by: involvement in research groups,
 journal clubs, seminars, quantitative and qualitative research methods training; UOA3 research
 strand events and ECR workshops linked to College research themes; URI and the Cardiff Institute
 of Tissue Engineering and Repair annual meetings; and cross-Wales networking through UOA3’s
 HCRW Centres.
 Students are encouraged to contribute to internal symposia and conference organisation (e.g., the
 RCBC Wales Community of Scholars meeting, and annual student-led Speaking of Science
 interdisciplinary event, with 15 UOA3 PGRs involved 2018-2019). Unit PGRs participate in the
 Unit’s varied PPI and public engagement activities (Section 4.3), the University’s heat of the Three
 Minute Thesis (3MT®) competition (Lowthian was shortlisted in 2020) and Cardiff’s Doctoral
 Academy Images of Research event (Williams won in 2019).
 Students’ training needs are enhanced by our Doctoral Academy’s extensive training programme
 (REF5a); topics include academic writing, thesis and viva preparation; public engagement and
 science communication; careers and employability; networking; wellbeing; resilience and mental
 health.
 Our successful approach to supporting future generations of allied health professionals is further
 evidenced by over 90% of PhD students submitting within four years, our successful training of
 both fundamental and clinical/allied health professionals (e.g., Section 2.3.5) and the broader
 contributions UOA3 students make to the Unit’s research outputs, impact and stakeholder
 engagement. Unit PGRs frequently win prizes (e.g., Hodges won paper of the day at the 2017
 RCN International Nursing Research Conference in Oxford; Moseley won the RCN Wales
 Safeguarding Award 2018; Pickering, a poster prize from the Association of Paediatric Chartered
 Physiotherapists; Nasser first place in the UAE Senior Category Hatton Award; Lowthian the
 Advanced Quantitative Research Method Award from the ESRC Wales Doctoral Training Centre).
 Cardiff’s careers service ensures ongoing support for PGRs, and postdoctoral staff, enabling
 successful transition to careers in academia, industry, scientific writing, policy organisations,
 NGOs and the NHS (e.g., Breger, Project Manager (University of Paris) SMARTS-UP €21M PhD
 training consortium across 21 Paris Institutes; Francies, Senior Scientist Wellcome Sanger
 Institute Translational Cancer Genomics; Gutteridge, Senior Scientific Advisor (Biomarker Liaison)
 Q2 Solutions; Sim, UK Government Intellectual Property Office).




                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 RESEARCH SUPPORT, AWARDS AND INCOME
 The Schools’ DoRs, with HoSs, oversee delivery of UOA3’s research and impact strategies,
 working via their Research Committees, with impact champions, Directors of PGR and UOA3’s
 network of professional research facilitators (15 staff). This promotes Unit cohesion and
 collaboration, aligned to our strategic objectives (Sections 1.2-1.3). Grant application and impact
 best practice is shared across UOA3, with our interdisciplinary research strands providing access
 to a breadth of experienced academic and professional research support. This is further facilitated
 by funding initiatives, infrastructure and facilities, within UOA3 and across the University, and
 through partnership with external UK and international networks (Section 4).
 This collaborative approach underpinned our REF2021 delivery, led by HoS and DoRs, supported
 by professional staff. A cohort of UOA3 staff reviewed outputs, all of whom undertook Cardiff’s
 mandatory EDI training, aligned to the REF2021 Code of Practice. Impact case studies were
 identified in consultation with Schools, aimed at demonstrating impact aligned to our BSDT, RAMD
 and PCHS themes. Staff consultation and communication was embedded in all REF2021
 processes, aligned to Cardiff’s focus on inclusivity, transparency and consistency (REF5a).
 As noted in Section 2, UOA3’s constituent Schools use a variety of initiatives to help staff obtain
 grant funding, delivered with equity and transparency (e.g., pitch-to-peer; mock interviews;
 School funding; research leave; workload allocations). These are further complemented by:
    •   promotion of internal and external funding opportunities, e.g., Sheeran’s successful
        Wellcome Trust ISSF Award with Engineering, IBM Power Vision and IT Meridian on
        machine learning for classification of patients’ motor control based on smart phone videos;
    •   peer-review grant processes, monthly grant writing surgeries and ECR mentoring
        from experienced academics, e.g., Allen and CTR’s pre-application support of Strange,
        when applying for her first independent grant on non-invasive prenatal testing (£247K,
        HCRW);
    •   financial support, including development of partnerships with external
        stakeholders, e.g., MRC Proximity to Discovery funding supported E.Lane and Lelos’
        (Biosciences) early-stage commercial work involving transplantation of hiPSC-derived
        patient cells in rodent models of Parkinson’s disease, which led to a commercial project
        with Aspen Neuroscience (£360K, 2020-2021);
    •   liaison with Cardiff’s Research and Innovation Services around translation and
        commercialisation, e.g., Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP) support (Section 3.3),
        such as O’Brien-Waddington’s project on novel implant surfaces using additive
        manufacturing with Renishaw (2016-2019, £212K, Innovate UK);
    •   PPI activities and support for ‘Lay Faculty’ (see also Section 4.3), e.g., end-user
        involvement supported Button’s development and evaluation of an online portal (TRAK) for
        patient self-management in knee injury rehabilitation, being developed for implementation
        in outpatient and virtual musculoskeletal physiotherapist services in Wales’ Health
        Boards and six NHS England trusts (2015-2016 £55K, Health Foundation).
 UOA3’s REF2021 research income was £99.2M: £38.6M (aligned to BSDT); £13.4M (RAMD);
 £47.2M (PCHS), a total 131% greater than REF2014 (£42.9M), and a 67% increase in p.a. income
 (£14.2M versus £8.6M REF2014). Income per FTE grew by 25% (£714K).
 Aligned to our strategic Aims 1-2 to realise greater interdisciplinary clinical research (Section 1.2),
 we saw a 4.5-fold increase in government and health-related agencies income (to £7.9M p.a.).
 £142M of new grant awards were secured since REF2014 (versus £60M, REF2014): £60M
 (aligned to BSDT); £26M (RAMD); £55M (PCHS), with a concomitant increase in grant
 applications (value £325M). License income totalled £778K, with 19 new patent families granted.
 Benefits-in-kind were £1.4M (e.g., access to the Diamond Light Source National Synchrotron,
 Section 4.1).


                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2. INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES
 UOA3 occupies ~32,000m2 floor space, excluding clinical research facilities shared between NHS
 Wales and Cardiff University. Laboratory research is predominantly undertaken in buildings at
 Cardiff’s Cathays campus, close to the city centre. Clinical and PCHS-aligned activities are
 facilitated by UOA3’s Research Centres, located at the University Hospital of Wales and Velindre
 Cancer Centre (close to Cathays). Optometry hosts an eye clinic, providing access to patients for
 Cardiff’s vision scientists. UOA3 researchers regularly utilise Cardiff’s Central Biotechnology
 Services and Advanced Research Computing@Cardiff (ARCCA) facilities (REF5a). Access to
 infrastructure and resources for staff and students is equitable and transparent, taking into account
 EDI requirements. UOA3’s dedicated technicians and facilities managers (16 staff in Optometry,
 Pharmacy and Dentistry) provide training and support.
 3.2.1 New infrastructure investments
 Infrastructure investments since REF2014 included major Centres, coalescing Unit expertise
 around key methods (clinical trials) or research themes (drug discovery, musculoskeletal
 disorders, children and families, see Section 1.1.1). Smaller-scale equipment purchases or
 upgrades further enhanced research strengths and external collaborations.
 A. Centre for Trials Research (CTR)
 As noted in Section 1.2.1, the new CTR, comprising ~160 research and professional support staff,
 accelerated clinical trials collaboration. CTR’s annual research awards (excluding core funding)
 average £6.29M, with 17.85FTE UOA3 CTR staff reflecting its central contributions to the Unit’s
 research and impact. The ‘PRINCESS trial (2015-2018 NIHR £2.2M, Butler) assessed whether
 daily probiotics in care home residents would reduce systemic antibiotic administration for acute
 infections and found no positive benefit. UOA3’s strength in Health Services organisation and
 delivery underpinned PUMA (2014-2019; NIHR, £1.9M Allen, Hood, C.Powell), a multi-centre UK-
 wide mixed-methods intervention trial testing a novel early warning approach designed to identify
 hospitalised paediatric patients at risk of deterioration; this approach has now been adopted in
 Qatar.
 Busse’s innovative clinical trials in Huntington’s Disease, in collaboration with academic
 physiotherapists (Hamana, van Deursen), changed international guidelines, supporting early
 referral to physiotherapy services [impact case]. They were supported by CTR’s strong PPI
 (Section 4.3) and Cardiff’s Huntington’s Disease Centre (2019) and its HCRW-funded (£2.76M)
 Brain Repair and Intracranial Neurotherapeutics Unit (supporting interdisciplinary
 collaboration with Psychology).
 CTR is a major partner in clinical oncology trials for the Wales Cancer Research Centre (WCRC,
 HCRW, £10M 2015-2025, Director Chester, Medicine), many of which involve UOA3 researchers.
 UOA3’s CTR-led cancer research awards amount to £25.2M, e.g., the NIHR trial CONSCOP2
 (2019-2025 £2.2M; Dolwani (Medicine), Daniel, Brain, Hood) assessed new contrast-enhanced
 colonoscopy imaging for bowel cancer screening, whilst also utilising UOA3’s epidemiological
 expertise (Cannings-John) to understand demographic and lifestyle factors influencing polyp
 incidence. WCRC also supports UOA3’s drug discovery and palliative care programmes. As part
 of early-stage work on an anti-metastatic Bcl3 inhibitor (Brancale, Westwell, Clarkson
 (Biosciences)), WCRC funded development of a new patient xenograft model (2014-2019,
 £250K), complementing CTR’s preparation for a first-in-class Phase 1 trial of the new agent.
 Nelson leads WCRC’s ‘Palliative and Supportive Care’ and PPI work-packages; the latter
 supported a successful UKRI-ESRC award exploring COVID-19 impacts on health and health
 behaviours in relation to cancer (£690K, 2020, Brain, Robling, Townson).
 B. Medicines Discovery Institute
 The Medicines Discovery Institute (MDI), involving Clinical Medicine, Biosciences and
 Pharmacy, was established in 2019 via Welsh Government’s competitive Sêr Cymru scheme
 (£5M). This was matched by £7M Cardiff investment, including £5.5M for equipment/capital
 infrastructure (e.g., new medicinal chemistry facilities). The MDI significantly increases Cardiff
 drug discovery expertise, facilitating the move of drug candidates into clinical trials, and is key to


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UOA3’s future research plans (Section 1.4). Gumbleton and Brancale serve on the MDI Advisory
 Board.
 Since 2019, the MDI has grown rapidly, now accommodating ~40 staff working on interdisciplinary
 drug discovery science. UOA3 ECR medicinal chemistry lecturer (Pertusati, Section 2) works with
 Waller-Evans (MDI, Biosciences) on glycosylation drug targets for lysosomal storage disorders, in
 a new research avenue designed to diversify early-career success in rare disease drug discovery
 (2017-2019, £263K, Cerecor Inc USA, Pertusati, Brancale). MDI further enabled Aeschlimann,
 Bax (MDI, Biosciences) and Buurma’s (Chemistry) successful application for a new SwitchSENSE
 facility for analysis of biomolecular interactions in support of drug discovery activity (EPSRC, 2020-
 2022, £228K, starting 01/11/20). Further investment, via the University’s Research Infrastructure
 Fund (RIF, REF5a), supported upgrade of Pharmacy’s 500MHz NMR spectroscopy (£250K, 2017,
 Westwell). This enables delivery of high value external partnerships, exemplified by the £2M
 award with NuCana plc on anticancer ProTides [Brancale, impact case].
 C. Versus Arthritis Biomechanics and Bioengineering Centre of Excellence
 Cardiff’s Versus Arthritis Centre was renewed in 2016 (£2.2M). This interdisciplinary Centre
 hosts state-of-the-art research facilities, novel in-vivo models and clinical samples for
 bioengineering research (including 3,600 orthopaedic samples, facilitated by Cardiff’s Biobank,
 Section 3.3). Involving Clinical Medicine, Engineering and UOA3 researchers, the Centre enables
 an interdisciplinary approach, e.g., Mason’s work linking engineering and biology to investigate
 mechanical loading, pain and pathology in skeletal disease (NC3Rs; £100K, 2017), as well as
 projects with Novartis based on her patented research on glutamate receptor antagonists in
 protecting against inflammation in injury-induced arthritis. UOA3 staff play key leadership roles:
 Sparkes (Director, since 2018); Aeschlimann, Dewitt, Mason (Lead, WP1: Preclinical); Al-Amri,
 Button, van Deursen (Co-Leads, WP4: Lower Limb Rehabilitation); Sheeran (Lead, WP5: Spine
 Rehabilitation); Birchall (WP6: Bone Cements and Coatings). The Centre also supports
 interdisciplinary postdoctoral and PGR training (e.g., 17 PGRs since REF2014). Focused
 particularly on ECRs, the linked Cardiff Institute for Tissue Engineering and Repair, led by
 UOA3 (Maillard), provides bursaries and networking events designed to promote cross-University
 interdisciplinary collaboration on stem cell and tissue engineering research, aligned to joint and
 bone diseases, microbial infections in tissues, and rehabilitation.
 A new Musculoskeletal Biomechanics Research Facility (£2.5M, 2015 Welsh Government, £2.5M
 Cardiff) enhanced the Centre’s capacity to undertake human movement studies. Located in
 Engineering (Director, Holt, Engineering), this facility helps deliver innovative work on
 transformative technologies, e.g., Button (co-lead, Sensor Physiotherapy Intervention Research
 Group) and Al-Amri’s (ECR clinical engineer) €10M Early Warning Wearable Device ‘EWWD’
 Interreg project (£320K Cardiff) applying virtual reality, machine learning, and wearable electronics
 for the remote monitoring of lower limb injuries. The Centre’s Gait Real-time Analysis Interactive
 Lab (established 2012; Director, van Deursen) was enhanced by upgrade of its instrumented
 motion capture treadmill, equipped with mechanical sensing and virtual reality projection (2020
 £82K, Sêr Cymru). This laboratory supported Bisson (Psychology), van Deursen and Hannigan’s
 Phase II trial (2017-2019, £200K, Forces in Mind Trust) on memory desensitization and
 reconsolidation therapy in British military veterans experiencing treatment-resistant post-traumatic
 stress disorder.
 D. Enhanced Imaging Capacity
 £2.92M was invested in UOA3’s imaging capacity. Supporting Castell (ECR recruited
 2014), University RIF funding (£120K) enabled the build of a bespoke dynamic multi-colour
 single molecule TIRF-imaging system. This facilitated further funding: (a) on novel bio-
 diagnostic platforms from the Sêr Cymru National Research Network in Advanced Engineering
 and Materials (2016-2018, £143K); (b) a £980K HORIZON2020 project with Barrow (Engineering,
 see Section 3.3); and (c) a key £5M EPSRC research network (CAPITALS, 2014-2019, led by
 Imperial College) where Castell is a collaborator. The TIRF-imaging platform also facilitated ECR
 NL.Thomas’ first independent grant on physiological ligands and hierarchical clustering of cardiac
 ryanodine receptors (British Heart Foundation, £223K, 2016-2020, with Castell).


                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Investment in UOA3’s vision research (2017, RIF/ISSF, £287K) established a new pre-clinical
 Optical Coherence Tomography facility supporting successful grant awards: (a) combined
 retinal imaging and phenotypic characterisation of mouse retina and efficacy endpoints for studies
 on new therapies for optic atrophy (Votruba, £161K, Fight for Sight, Academy of Medical Sciences)
 and (b) agents against mitochondrial targets (Brancale, Heard, Votruba, 2017-2018; 2020-2021,
 National Eye Research Centre, £129K). RIF funding (£403K, matched MRC £220K) supported
 acquisition of a volume electron microscope (the only such facility in Wales); this enables study
 of cornea ultrastructure in unprecedented detail over large tissue volumes and supported two five-
 year MRC Programme Grants and three BBSRC Project Grants (Meek, Quantock, total £7.8M).
 A clinically approved Optical Coherence Tomography imaging system (£88K; 2014; Innovate
 UK/EU Commission) was acquired by Birchall and Coulman to visualise ex-vivo and in-vivo human
 skin in their microneedle research. This technology was vital for their impact case on dimensions
 and morphology of puncture characteristics of pharmaceutical capsules. £1.8M of University
 investment in 2015 enhanced radiochemistry capability in Cardiff’s Positron Emission
 Tomography (PETIC, Director Marshall, with Bradley). This advanced UOA3’s preclinical PET
 research, including development of synthetic radiochemical routes to F-18 nucleoside pro-
 nucleotides (Westwell) and acceleration of in-vivo biodistribution profiling of clinical stage
 anticancer ProTides (necessary for Brancale’s impact work).
 E. Population Health resources
 The National Centre for Population Health and Wellbeing Research, involving Cardiff, Bangor
 and Swansea Universities (created 2018, £2.5M HCRW; UOA3 PIs, Paranjothy, G.Moore,
 Robling) facilitates delivery of large-scale epidemiological analyses to inform health improvements
 (30 studies to-date). This is complemented by HCRW funding for HealthWise Wales (HWW;
 established 2015, £2.5M, Paranjothy, Hurt, Robling, Townson). HWW is a flagship Welsh initiative
 supporting longitudinal population cohort studies on health and lifestyle factors through a database
 of research-ready patient and public participants (40,000+). For example, Nelson and Byrne’s
 (2018) HWW-enabled study on ‘Attitudes Towards Death and Dying’ was presented to Welsh
 Government’s ‘End of Life Care’ Board shaping future service provision and priorities for public
 education.
 3.2.2 Interdisciplinary Centres and Institutes
 A. Children’s Social Care Research and Development Centre (CASCADE)
 CASCADE was launched in 2014 (£2.5M, HCRW) and renewed in 2020-2025 (£2.4M). The
 Centre develops public health responses for children in need of protection, bringing together
 practitioners and policy makers from the children’s social care sector. It is a leading UK Centre,
 with UOA3 researchers contributing through their expertise in randomised controlled trials, data-
 linkage and qualitative/mixed-method research. CASCADE secured over £10M in funding since
 REF2014, including the ‘What Works Centre for Children’s Social Care’ (£7M; 2017-2020, UK
 Government Department of Education). This Centre involves UOA3 researchers G.Moore,
 Robling, Kemp, alongside Forrester (Social Sciences), Evans, Scourfield (both Education). Other
 CASCADE projects, involving UOA3 staff include: (a) Family Recovery after Domestic Abuse
 (FReDA): A feasibility trial and nested process evaluation of a group based psychoeducational
 intervention for children exposed to domestic violence and abuse (2020-2023, £272K, NIHR,
 G.Moore, Evans, Education); (b) Impact of local authority care on children’s futures (2015-2021,
 £155K, ESRC, G.Moore); and (c) The restorative approaches veterans and family service project
 (2015-2021, £71K, from Tros Gynnal Plant, involving Williams (Social Sciences), Rees
 (Education), Segrott).
 B. Centre for Development, Evaluation, Complexity and Implementation in Public Health
 Improvement (DECIPHer)
 DECIPHer is a UKCRC Public Health Research Centre of Excellence. Established in 2009,
 DECIPHer received further funding in 2014-2019 (£4.5M) and 2020-2025 (£2.5M). UOA3
 researchers fulfil key leadership roles, including G.Moore (Deputy Director); Segrott (PI: Family
 and Parenting-based Interventions) and Robling (PI: Population Health Trials). The Centre unites
 Cardiff’s interdisciplinary public health expertise, providing evidence to policy makers via direct

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 working with the public. For example, the ‘Building Blocks 2-6’ trial (2014-2019, NIHR £860K
 Cannings-John, Channon, Hood, Lugg-Widger, Robling, Sanders, Segrott) was a collaboration
 between CTR, Healthcare Sciences midwifery researchers and DECIPHer. It used innovative
 clinical trial methodology to follow-up their prior work on the Family Nurse Partnership Programme,
 which involved specialist home visiting support for teenage mothers designed to promote child
 safety and development. At two to six years post-birth, while there was no observable benefit on
 maltreatment or maternal outcomes, benefits in school readiness and attainment at Key Stage 1
 were evident. Research recommendations are being rolled out by the NHS in 2021, as part of the
 Family Nurse Partnership programme.
 DECIPHer is one of the strategic drivers of UOA3’s impact strategy, as evidenced by Chestnutt’s
 dental public health impact case involving the ‘Seal or Varnish’ NIHR clinical trial, which resulted
 in improved child oral health in deprived communities, as well as G.Moore’s impact on policy-
 making to protect children’s health from tobacco and e-cigarettes. The latter was facilitated by one
 of UOA3’s vital user networks, the School Health Research Network, involving 210 Welsh
 secondary schools, Welsh Government and Public Health Wales. DECIPHer was a key partner in
 Cardiff’s new £10M Wolfson Centre for Young People’s Mental Health, which built on our social
 science and biomedical research strengths in child development and mental health. DECIPHer,
 and the new Wolfson Centre, will be hosted in Cardiff’s flagship £56.5M Social Sciences
 Research Park (SPARK, opening Autumn 2021, REF5a). Research on children and young people
 is one of SPARK’s strategic themes, providing a unique opportunity for UOA3 to grow its
 interdisciplinary research on children and families.
 C. Wales Centre for Primary and Emergency Care Research (PRIME)
 UOA3’s primary care research is strategically supported through PRIME (2015-2020 £5M; 2020-
 2025 £5M; HCRW), hosted in UOA3 (Director, Edwards, 17 UOA academics). PRIME is a
 multidisciplinary all-Wales network, generating the evidence base for change aligned to unmet
 policy and practice healthcare needs outside of the hospital setting. Six of eight PRIME work
 packages are led by Cardiff researchers, and like many of UOA3’s Centres, PRIME has well-
 developed PPI networks (see Section 4.3.1), designed to actively facilitate outcomes of direct
 benefit for patients, e.g., Joseph-Williams and Edwards work on shared decision-making [impact
 case]. Further research examples include: a clinical decision support tool for primary care
 management of lower urinary tract symptoms in men (PRIMUS, NIHR £1.8M, 2017-2021;
 Edwards, Hood, Joseph-Williams, Thomas-Jones) and research on GP-Emergency Department
 models of patient care with the Involving People Network (‘GP-ED’ study NIHR, £1M, 2017-2022;
 Edwards, Carson-Stevens). PRIME is also now host to Welsh Government’s £3M COVID-19
 Evidence Centre (Director, Edwards, awarded post-REF2021 census date); this provides UOA3
 researchers with a unique opportunity contribute to COVID-19 recovery in Wales, and the UK.
 D. University Research Institutes
 UOA3 has strong collaborations with Cardiff URIs (e.g., Neuroscience and Mental Health URI,
 Section 1.2.3). Additionally, D.Thomas plays a senior leadership role in Cardiff’s Systems
 Immunity URI, which facilitated his project (with Hill, Ferguson) on characterisation of novel
 polymer therapeutics to disrupt mucus and bacterial biofilms in cystic fibrosis and multi-drug
 resistant infection. Polymer candidates gained FDA orphan drug designation and entered Phase
 2b trials during the REF2014 period (sponsored by AlgiPharma AS, with USA Cystic Fibrosis
 Foundation, $11M, and European funding, €6M).
 The interdisciplinary Crime and Security URI (£2M, S.Moore, Co-Director) undertakes research
 on police, security and defence, enabled by well-established partnering with local and national
 government, police, health, defence organisations. UOA3-led research included: ELAStiC (2015-
 2018, ESRC, MRC and Alcohol Research UK £470K, Farewell, Fone, S.Moore, Paranjothy), a
 record-linked longitudinal study identifying pathways into, and impacts of, alcohol use on health
 and wellbeing. EDARA (2016-2019, NIHR £930K, Allen, S.Moore, Sivarajasingham, Shepherd)
 was a large mixed-method multicentre study, demonstrating the transformative potential of night
 time alcohol intoxication management services in reducing harm. These studies shaped new
 policies on violent crime [Shepherd, impact case] and excessive alcohol consumption [S.Moore,
 impact case].

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.3. CLINICAL, TRANSLATIONAL AND COMMERCIAL SUPPORT
 Established in 2018 by £1.5M of Cardiff University investment (ongoing support £280K p.a.), the
 Cardiff University Biobank (CUB, Lead, Stephens) provides infrastructure, governance support
 and coordination for Welsh research involving human-derived samples. CUB can store up to
 900,000 biological samples (e.g., blood, urine, tissue, saliva), procured for research under
 accredited quality management ISO standards. The facility supports Cardiff researchers and other
 research organisations that need high quality samples (e.g., CUB hosts the only Welsh cystic
 fibrosis bio-sample collection, jointly curated between Cardiff University and Cardiff and Vale
 University Health Board).
 To further accelerate clinical research collaboration between Cardiff University and the Cardiff and
 Vale University Health Board, a new single research service, the Joint Clinical Research Office,
 was established. This supports human and patient research across both organisations and
 facilitates the patient-facing and clinical trials work of Cardiff clinical researchers. The Cardiff
 University Innovation Network (REF5a) also facilitates NHS and Cardiff collaboration,
 complemented by partnership funding initiatives, e.g., KTP’s supported nine UOA3 projects since
 REF2014 (versus four, REF2014), including Maillard’s work on antimicrobial wipes which
 improved international standards [impact case]. Cardiff’s Commercial Development team also
 provided extensive support for UOA3 researchers in obtaining patents: 162 patents, from 10
 patent families since REF2014 (e.g., Stephens (priority-date 2015) adult progenitor cells and
 wound healing of oral mucosa; Gumbleton (priority-date 2018) polymer nanoparticles for oral
 delivery of biologics).
 Since REF2014, UOA3 researchers successfully secured £2M of internal funding for early-stage
 translational and commercial projects. Awards included: 3 ESRC Impact Accelerators (£36.2K); 17
 MRC Confidence in Concept (£781K); 16 MRC Proximity to Discovery (£333K); 18 Wellcome Trust
 ISSF Translational Kickstart and Cross-Disciplinary projects (£900K). For example, Confidence in
 Concept funding between Dentistry and Pharmacy (2014-2015 £45K Sloan, Maillard) supported
 innovative work on liposomal delivery of antimicrobials for dental tissue repair, with Proximity to
 Discovery enabling Castell’s (2017-2018, £24.6K) collaboration with an SME, OxSyBio, on 3D
 printing of tissue-like materials. Alongside investment in our new TIRF-imaging system platform
 (Section 3.2.1D), this laid the groundwork for Castell and Barrow’s (Engineering) £980K
 HORIZON2020 FETPROACT programme on ‘Artificial Cells with Distributed Cores to Decipher
 Protein Function’. An ISSF Cross-Disciplinary award (£63K), on novel drug-loaded contact lenses
 and mucoadhesive films for controlled delivery of medications into the cornea, led to BBSRC
 funding between Dentistry, Optometry and Healthcare Sciences (2019-2021, £871K.
 Quantock, Heard, Whitaker). Button and Al-Amri’s EU Interreg project (Section 3.2.1C) was
 facilitated by an ISSF Cross-Disciplinary Award (£49K, to Sparkes, Button, Chambers,
 Psychology). ESRC Impact Accelerator funding (2017-2018 £19.8K Courtenay) supported a
 Delphi study to develop a competency framework for the optimal use of antibiotics.
 The competencies were endorsed by professional bodies (e.g., Royal College of Nursing) and
 identified as an educational resource in the UK Government’s five-year national action plan
 ‘Tackling antimicrobial resistance 2019–2024’.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Local, national and international collaborations, involving both academic and non-academic
 partners, facilitated meaningful contributions to society. Illustrated by impact examples in
 Sections 1-3 and below, UOA3’s contribution to the discipline is further complemented by
 innovative PPI, public engagement initiatives, and contributions to industry, charity and
 government.
 4.1 ACADEMIC PARTNERSHIPS
 77% of REF2021 outputs were co-authored with academics external to Cardiff. 65% involved
 national collaborations, most commonly (177 outputs): UCL, Oxford, KCL, Imperial, Liverpool,
 Nottingham, Manchester, Cambridge, Swansea and GW4 (the latter 34 papers). International
 collaborations featured in 50% of REF2021 outputs. National and international collaborations, from
 over 285 separate academic institutes, include:


                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Aligned to BSDT: AT.Jones’ work with Nottingham on polymer therapeutics and bioresponsive
 materials stimulated commercial interest (Astra Zeneca; 2016-2017; £142K) and was the first
 demonstration of ‘Endocytic Profiling’ in nanomedicine development. Enabled by investigator
 status at the NIHR Sheffield Biomedical Research Centre for Neurology, Aeschlimann’s
 collaboration with Hadjivassiliou and Sanders led to a new diagnostic (ELISA) kit, being developed
 by German biotech company, Zedira. Porch (Engineering) and L.Baillie (with GW4 colleagues)
 collaborated with Microsemi Ltd. to develop a new hand-held, rapid point-of-care diagnostic for
 Clostridium difficile infection. Working with Huttner (Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology
 and Genetics, Dresden) Newland developed a novel ultrasoft hydrogel enabling live imaging of
 human brain tissue cultures. Using Cardiff’s high-performance computing facility (ARCCA,
 REF5a), Guggenheim’s collaboration with the Consortium for Refractive Error and Myopia
 (involving ~100 geneticists, biostatisticians and ophthalmologists from 15 countries) led to a
 genetic test for high myopia. This work is now being translated for patient benefit (Fight for Sight;
 £196K; 2020, awarded post-REF2021 census date).
 Aligned to RAMD: With Liverpool, Exeter and the Karolinska Institute (Sweden), Boote, Hayes,
 Meek, Regini, undertook research elucidating the structure and light transparency of biosynthetic
 corneal implants at the Diamond Light Source National Synchrotron (£1.4M facilities award).
 Quantock, Meek, Boote’s extensive Japanese collaborations delivered new protocols for
 introducing hiPSC-derived cells into eye-like tissues (enabled by BBSRC-funded Japan Partnering
 Award (2018-2022, £48K) and research exchanges, e.g., ECR Harrington, 2018, Osaka
 University). This work contributed to the MRC-funded Cross-linking Consortium and National
 Keratoconus e-Registry, currently developing a code of best surgical practice with the Royal
 College of Ophthalmologists. Dentistry’s Regenerative Biology Group have strong international
 collaborations on technologies for regeneration of epidermal tissue (North Carolina, Stephens);
 neuronal injury (China Medical University, Shenyang, Song); and wound re-epithelialisation (QIMR
 Berghofer, Brisbane, Moseley). Mason actively contributed to international multidisciplinary expert
 groups with UK (e.g., Oxford), European (e.g., Lund) and North American (e.g., Duke) Universities.
 Including patient representatives, these led to new recommendations for the conduct of efficacy
 trials of treatment devices for osteoarthritis.
 Aligned to PCHS: Tenovus Cancer Care and Welsh Government funding (£186K) supported
 Brain’s collaboration with behavioural scientists and public health physicians at UCL, King’s
 College London, City and Belfast HEIs, on early warning signs for breast, colorectal and lung
 cancer. UOA3 fellow Thomas-Jones (with academic GP Francis) co-designed a NIHR-funded
 multicentre randomised controlled trial (involving 96 GP surgeries) with primary care and
 dermatology researchers at Southampton, Bristol and Nottingham Universities. This study found
 no benefit of emollient bath additives in children with eczema informing care management. The
 Wales Centre for Evidence Based Care (WCEBC) and the Specialist Unit for Review
 Evidence (SURE) support systematic and literature reviews in public health, clinical practice and
 health services delivery. They also advance methodological innovation and provide consultancy
 and training. For example, SURE supported three systematic reviews as part of the PUMA study,
 which laid the foundations for a novel paediatric early warning improvement programme (Section
 3.2.1A). WCEBC is also part of the Joanna Briggs Institute’s (Australia) international network,
 spanning 34 countries. This supports local to international training (e.g., systematic review training
 in Malawi; Global Evidence Summit, South Africa, N.Evans). The WHO Collaborating Centre for
 Midwifery Development (Healthcare Sciences, Hunter) generates evidence for midwifery practice,
 and provides expert advice and technical consultancy across WHO’s 194 member states (e.g.,
 resilience within midwifery practice, with Auckland University of Technology; Australian midwife
 experiences of workplace culture, with University of Technology Sydney). Lewis’ influential trial
 work on tuberculosis involved collaboration with Africa, China and South America, utilising
 contacting tracing, text messaging and medication monitors to improve treatment uptake.
 Cardiff’s international strategic partnerships (REF5a) supported D.Williams’ collaboration with
 PGR Cavalcanti (Campinas, now Adjunct Professor, Federal University of Paraiba), on Clostridium
 albicans virulence in biofilms; Cardiff (Farnell, Richmond) and Leuven (Claes) research exchanges
 focused on biological influences on human facial morphology, including orofacial clefts. Hall leads
 the Phoenix Project, Cardiff’s civic mission partnership with University of Namibia. Shortlisted for
 International Collaboration of the Year (THE, 2017), the Phoenix Project hosts 40 projects (from

                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reducing road deaths to water research) which aim to reduce poverty, promote health and support
 UN Sustainable Development Goals. Hall’s translational work (MRC DPFS/PHIND; £1.1M; 2017)
 on anaesthesia, post-operative recovery, and road traffic accidents also involve collaboration with
 Italian (IMT School for Advanced Studies, Lucca), Canadian (University of British Columbia), US
 (Virginia Tech) and New Zealand (University of Auckland) researchers.
 4.2   CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE SUSTAINABILITY OF OUR DISCIPLINES
 Highlighted contributions, from amongst many, include:
 Keynotes: World Health Organisation INSPIRE conference; WHO Child Protection Hub; Prime
 Minister’s Summit on Serious Violence (Shepherd); Penn Stem Cell and Regenerative Dentistry
 Conference, Pennsylvania (Sloan); Gordon Research Conference ‘Transglutaminases in Human
 Disease Processes’, Spain (Aeschlimann); RCN Research Society and BMA Sociology Group
 Annual Conference (Allen); Senedd Cymru/Welsh Assembly presentation on alcohol harm
 (S.Moore); Global Conference on Pharmaceutics and Drug Delivery systems, Spain (AT.Jones).
 Conference leadership: Chair, Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology (ARVO)
 (2014; Meek); Chair, Myopia: Behaviour and interventions, ARVO (2019; Guggenheim); Chair,
 British Society for Oral and Dental Research Conference (2015; Lewis); Chair, International
 Conference on Microneedles series (Birchall); Chair, Gordon Research Conference
 Transglutaminases in Human Disease Processes (2018, Adamczyk).
 Funding bodies: Multiple HCRW and NIHR panels (Allen, Busse, Chestnutt, A.Jones, Hannigan,
 Hood, Gillespie, Thomas-Jones); Chair, Macular Society Research Committee; Guide Dogs
 Strategic Research Advisory Committee (Margrain); National Eye Research Centre (Votruba);
 Fight for Sight (Morgan, Guggenheim); BBSRC-Innovate UK (Williams); NC3Rs (Sloan,
 Stephens); Deputy Chair, Coeliac UK Research Awards Panel (Aeschlimann); Research
 Foundation Flanders (van Deursen); NIHR HS&DR Commissioning Board; Canadian Institute for
 Health Research; French National Institute for Cancer Research (Allen); MRC DPFS Expert Group
 (Birchall); Alcohol Research UK (Segrott); Breast Cancer Now Scientific Advisory Board;
 Academic Lead, CRUK International Cancer Benchmarking Partnership public awareness module
 (Brain); CRUK Clinical Expert Review Panel (Hurt); Health Research Board (Ireland, Hood,
 Robling).
 Editorships and editorial boards: Journal of Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing (Hannigan);
 Antiviral Chemistry and Chemotherapy (Brancale); Journal of Cardiovascular Pharmacology and
 Therapeutics (Baxter); Advanced Drug Delivery Reviews; International Journal of Nanomedicine
 (Gumbleton); JDR Clinical & Translational Research (Chestnutt); European Journal of
 Orthodontics (Richmond); Journal of Dental Research (Aeschlimann); Scientific Reports
 (Ferguson); PLoS One (Boote); Sociology of Health & Illness; Journal of Health Services Research
 and Policy (Allen).
 Honours: Queen’s Anniversary Prize (2017); Association of Optical Practitioners Lifetime
 Achievement Award (2015) (Woodhouse); David Rich Lecture Award (Meek); Institution of
 Engineering and Technology Innovation Award (Margrain); International Association for Dental
 Research William J Gies Prize (2019) (Chestnutt); MediWales Innovation Award (2018) (Dentistry,
 Advanced Therapies Group); RCN Wales Nurse of the Year Research Award (Evans, Hannigan,
 Jones); Fellow, Academy of Social Sciences (Allen); European Society for Paediatric
 Endocrinology Outstanding Clinician 2018 (Gregory); OBEs (2020, nursing research (Kelly);
 optometry (Woodhouse); CBE (2018, midwifery and education (Hunter).
 Professional bodies: Chair, Mental Health Nurse Academics UK (Hannigan); President,
 European Tissue Repair Society (Stephens); President, British Association for the Study of
 Community Dentistry (Morgan); Chair, UK Association of Clinical Oral Microbiologists (Wilson);
 Children’s Diabetes & Endocrinology Clinical Studies Group, British Society for Paediatric
 Endocrinology & Diabetes (Gregory); Scientific Foundation Board, Royal College of General
 Practitioners (F.Wood); Fellowship, Royal College of General Practitioners; Specialty Lead for
 Primary Care Wales, NIHR (Edwards); Council, Royal College of Anaesthetists (Hall); General
 Optical Council Expert Advisor (Margrain); Past President, European Oncology Nursing Society
 (Kelly); Councillor, International Psoriasis Council (Bundy); Board of Directors, International

                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Society for Antiviral Research (Brancale); Secretary General, European Association for Vision and
 Eye Research (Votruba); President, European Society for Prevention Research (Segrott).
 Health and clinical excellence bodies: Chair, NICE Nurse Prescribers Advisory Group
 (Courtenay); NIHR and HCRE Ophthalmology Speciality Lead (Margrain, Votruba); Royal College
 of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists Wellbeing for Women Scientific Committee (Sanders); NIHR
 Cancer and Nutrition Collaboration Group (Hopkinson); HCRW Lead for musculoskeletal disorders
 (Button); Expert Advisor, British National Formulary for Children (Gregory); Topic Expert, NICE
 Public Health Advisory Committee (Segrott); Co-lead, Global Network of WHO Collaborating
 Centres (Hunter); Scientific Advisor, NHS Education for Scotland; WHO Primary Care Expert
 Group; OECD Working Group for Patient-reported Safety Outcomes (Carson-Stevens);
 Temporary Advisor to WHO on vaccine delivery; British Pharmacopoeia Expert Advisory Group
 (Birchall); Expert Advisor, United Nations Policy Group on Whistleblowing in the Health Sector;
 United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime Experts Group (A.Jones).
 Government: Public Health England’s Academic Network; National Substance Misuse Non-
 Medical Prescribing Forum (Courtenay); Home Office Science Advisory Council; Advisory Board
 on Violence against Women and Girls, Welsh Government (Shepherd); Chair, Advisory Panel on
 Substance Misuse, Welsh Government (S.Moore); Chair, Dental Caries Prevention Working
 Group; Delivering Better Oral Health; Public Health England (Chestnutt); All Wales Senior Nurse
 Advisory Group for Mental Health and Mental Health Nurse Academics (Evans, Hannigan);
 Freedom to Speak Up/Raising Concerns Welsh Partnership Forum (A.Jones); Chair, National
 Advisory Board, Care and Social Services Inspectorate Wales (Hall); Consultant, US Centers for
 Disease Control and Prevention (Shepherd).
 4.3 PATIENTS AND THE PUBLIC
 4.3.1 Patient-Public Involvement (PPI)
 As evidenced throughout our REF5b statement, PPI is an integral part of our research strategy,
 enabled by UOA3’s Research Centres (Section 3.2.1) and project steering groups (e.g., UK
 Imaging Retinal Densitometry study), ensuring critical feedback from those at risk from, or
 experiencing, the illnesses we aim to prevent and treat. Examples include:
 CTR’s Public Involvement and Engagement (PIE) Hub provides oversight of CTR’s PPI work
 and supports implementation of the National Standards for public involvement in research across
 CTR’s studies. Since 2017, CTR provided 400 opportunities for public involvement, e.g., free
 online training for researchers on engaging with the public on 'data projects’, co-produced with
 stakeholders and patients (centrictraining.org). PPI strategy in the Brain Repair and Intracranial
 Neurotherapeutics Unit is led by E.Lane, ensuring involvement of people with neurological
 disorders in all aspects of research (e.g., Busse’s impact case).
 PRIME’s key PPI driver is SUPER (Service Users for Primary and Emergency care Research),
 involving 40 lay people from diverse backgrounds. DECIPHer’s ALPHA network (Advice Leading
 to Public Health Advancement) involved 84 young people over the REF period, who supported
 101 research studies. ALPHA, and DECIPHer’s School Health Research Network (Section 1.3.1)
 informed UOA3 research on alcohol advertising, drug prevention, school-based health promotion,
 sexual health, and suicide and self-harm (e.g., G.Moore, impact case). PPI is further embedded
 in co-development of patient reported outcome measures (PROMs) designed to improve care,
 e.g., Nelson’s PPI work with the Wales Cancer Research Centre enabled clinical testing of a
 simple and effective screening PROMs (ALERT-B) for detection of gastroenterological effects after
 prostate cancer radiotherapy (2014-2018, EAGLE trial, Prostate Cancer UK, £448K, Nelson,
 Staffurth, Medicine).
 4.3.2 Public understanding
 UOA3 has an active public engagement portfolio, from educational activities, to theatrical
 workshops and other engagement events. Examples include:
 Pharmabees is an award-winning (Guardian University Awards 2017 Sustainability Project) public
 engagement project (launched 2014) based on UOA3’s research on the antimicrobial properties
 of honey (L.Baillie). Since REF2014, Pharmabees (via £750K from Cardiff Council, Wellcome

                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Trust, HEFCW, Waterloo Foundation) has established new pollinator-friendly wellbeing gardens
 in hospitals and bee-friendly community green spaces (e.g., ‘Greening Cathays’; ‘Grangetown
 Community Gateway’, the latter linked to Cardiff’s Transforming Communities initiative, REF5a).
 Pharmabees is also part of the Trio Sci Cymru project (£810K), a Welsh Government National
 Science Academy STEM initiative, e.g., UOA3 ECRs delivered Trio Sci Cymru activities to 1,500
 key stage 3 pupils in underprivileged areas of South Wales.
 The Written in Sand not Stone theatrical event (2020; R.Lane, Hannigan) stimulated dialogue
 between the public and mental health providers on psychiatric diagnosis. A film of the performance
 was shown at the Green Ribbon Arts Festival (sponsor, Mental Health Foundation). UOA3
 researchers participate in The Cardiff Science Festival, held annually; in 2020, Moses, a
 postdoctoral researcher, delivered Busting Bacteria for a Superstar Smile, highlighting UOA3’s
 dental research, and attracting over 10,000 social media impressions. E.Lane and Kidd co-lead
 Brain Games, an annual interactive event introducing children aged 7-11 years to psychology
 and neuroscience research, hosted by the National Museum of Wales (3,670 participants, 2019).
 Science in Health Live! is an annual UOA3-led event reaching 1,000 Welsh Year 12 pupils,
 offering hands-on opportunities to explore the science behind disease and therapeutic
 interventions. The Urdd Youth Eisteddfod and National Eisteddfod of Wales attract 150,000
 visitors. AT.Jones is science lead for the National Eisteddfod Steering Committee; with 50 Cardiff
 staff and students, he led Eisteddfod exhibits Science of the Sea (2018, Cardiff) and
 Pharmabees (2019, Llanrwst).
 4.4 CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ECONOMY AND SOCIETY
 Augmenting our REF2021 impact cases (described Sections 1-3), research with industry created
 new and improved technologies, e.g., J.Morgan’s software innovation enabled early computer
 screen detection of optic nerve damage by stereoscopic digital microscopy review; this software
 is now incorporated into Japanese company Kowa’s latest stereoscopic software release. Cardiff-
 based SME, Cotton Mouton Diagnostics Ltd. (Bowen, founded 2015, £2.5M private
 equity/Innovate UK) uses magnetic nanorod technology in point-of-care diagnostics. A new
 product, ‘CMD-alphabet’ for sepsis, is scheduled for launch (early 2022) in the US, in partnership
 with a global corporate. New technology (MacuMapTM), providing unique outer-retinal imaging for
 diagnosis of age-related macular degeneration, was developed with the UK Astronomy
 Technology Centre (NIHR/STFC (£1.5M), Cardiff £285K, Margrain, A.Wood). MacuMapTM is
 currently being used in a Phase II clinical trial of a new therapeutic agent (Margrain, Votruba,
 A.Wood, with CTR’s Playle, 2020-2023, AltRegen Co. Ltd £753K); this trial will also support device
 CE marking. Industrial advisory roles further enrich our collaborations, e.g., Consultant, L’Oréal
 Paris (2015-current) and Grupo AC Marca (2014-current) (Maillard); Chair (2017-current) Novo
 Nordisk UK Research Foundation Research Selection Committee (Gregory).
 UOA3 leadership of the Life Sciences Research Network Wales (LSRNW; 2013-2020 Welsh
 Government Sêr Cymru £7.3M, McGuigan, Brancale) supported 150 projects in Wales, levering a
 further £33.7M investment, e.g., LSRNW funding (£12K) supported Moseley’s collaboration with
 QBiotics Ltd. (2016-2020, £545K) on a wound healing candidate now in clinical development for
 veterinary applications and preclinical development for humans. Led by UOA3, the Celtic
 Advanced Life Science Innovation Network (CALIN) is a six-HEI Ireland-Wales European
 Interreg consortium (2016-2023, €19M, Cardiff, £1.9M, AT.Jones, Birchall, Bowen, Gumbleton,
 Watson (Biosciences)). Via consortium-funded consultancies and workshops, CALIN supported
 125 companies. A further 43 SMEs benefited from laboratory research projects, 10 of which
 involved Cardiff (e.g., Mikota Ltd.’s work on new collagen-based products for wound care,
 AT.Jones, Watson).
 UOA3’s T&S, T&R and honorary clinical staff support collaborations with the healthcare sector
 (Section 2.3.5). Other mechanisms include HCRW’s Research for Patient and Public Benefit
 (RfPPB), facilitating joint working between Universities and the NHS on healthcare practice and
 services. The All Wales Research Design and Conduct Service within CTR (2015-2023,
 HCRW, £1.4M, Robling, Hood, Channon) supports RfPPB proposal development (for both NHS
 and HEI researchers), with over 510 researchers helped since 2015. Hopkinson’s RfPPB study
 (£230K, 2016-2018), with third sector organisations (e.g., Carers UK), focused on specialist home

                                                                                           Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 treatment intervention for people with dementia in the community, designed to prevent hospital
 admission
 Sheeran’s BACK-on-LINETM digital platform is used by public and private-sector employers (e.g.,
 NHS, Transport for London) to help staff self-manage their back pain (2018-2020, £168K
 Department of Work and Pensions Health Challenge Fund). This research informed the
 parliamentary consultation, ‘Health is everyone’s business: Proposals to reduce ill health-related
 job loss’ (July 2019). Carson-Stevens and Edwards PISA study on patient safety incidents,
 involving primary care practitioners, set priorities for systems improvement, including safer GP
 anticoagulation services (subordinate legislation 2017 Health and Social Care Act; Wales ‘1000
 Lives Plus’ quality improvement campaign). This research also informed clinical professional
 development (e.g., e-learning resources guides, WHO Patient Safety and Royal College of
 General Practitioners).
 ACCELERATE (£8.4M, 2018-2021; Section 1.3.1) aims to expedite adoption of NHS healthcare
 solutions and provides commercial and public enterprises with research and development
 expertise (e.g., business project management, heath economists) and proof-of-concept funding.
 Al-Amri’s funded (£66K) collaboration with Ambiquire Ltd. and NHS physiotherapists is enabling
 development of wearable remote movement sensor technology to guide rehabilitation in
 individuals with knee pain. Another ACCELERATE UOA3 project (Ryan, Acton, J.Morgan; £150K),
 working with Welsh Government and Cardiff and Vale University Health Board, developed a new
 service framework allowing registered High Street optometrists to manage high-risk eye patients
 (e.g., new glaucoma referrals, diabetic retinopathy); the longer-term objective is an All-Wales roll-
 out as part of the NHS Wales Transforming Eyecare Services (benefiting 115,000 at risk patients).
 Hannigan and A.Jones’ research on care planning in mental health services (2014-2016) informed
 recommendations in the Independent Review ‘Modernising the Mental Health Act 2018’, a
 precursor to the recently published (January 2021) consultation on ‘Reforming the Mental Health
 Act’ legislation in England and Wales. UOA3 research enhancing health and social care
 organisations response to employees' concerns (Allen, A.Jones, Kelly, Section 1.2.2) was used
 as primary evidence by Welsh Government (via the ‘Freedom to Speak Up/Raising Concerns
 Welsh Partnership Forum’). This informed the new NHS Wales ‘Speak Up’ Service (launching
 summer 2021) and the 2020 UN (Office on Drugs and Crime) and UK Government guidelines,
 Protecting Whistleblowers in the Health Sector.
 M.Morgan’s research on dental treatment needs in care home residents (£19K, 2015-2019,
 GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare) was used by NHS England to generate health needs
 assessments, informed NICE (2015) oral health guidelines and prompted Welsh Government
 action on oral health in care homes. Research on electronic medication administration systems
 (2018-21 KTP £219K; Smith (T&S), Gumbleton), with care homes, community pharmacies and
 health technology company (Invatech) informed professional policy (e.g., Royal Pharmaceutical
 Society Wales, Improving Medicines Use for Care Home Residents), and was endorsed by other
 key bodies (e.g., Older People’s Commissioner for Wales). The research received the Health
 Service Journal Excellence UK award (2016) and is cited as the evidence base for the Welsh
 Government’s Digital Medicines Management programme (2019).
 4.5 SUMMARY
 Successful delivery of our REF2014 strategy ensures we remain well-placed to continue to
 address key societal challenges, deliver new health products and technologies, and more effective
 healthcare policies, practices and services. Our research and impact contributions to Wales and
 the UK have strengthened, while our new research strands enhanced interdisciplinary research,
 enriched by our extensive national and international collaborations. Our Research Centres
 enabled co-creation of research addressing patient and public needs; they ensure our research
 will continue to deliver meaningful benefit to society. REF2014 and planned infrastructure
 investments, in University Innovation Institutes, CTR, MDI and SPARK (REF5a), provide exciting
 future catalysts for our diverse research community to expand their research ambitions, with a
 focus on identified strategic priorities (Section 1.4): advanced therapies, drug discovery,
 biomedical engineering, children and families, and public and population health.


                                                                                              Page 24
