Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Westminster

 Unit of Assessment: 13 Architecture, Built Environment and Planning

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit of Assessment 13 at the University of Westminster comprises staff within the School of
 Architecture and Cities, and, prior to September 2018, the former Faculty of Architecture and the
 Built Environment. Strategic aims for the Unit were set in 2015, following REF2014, and revised
 and updated in 2018, with the shift from Faculty to School.

 The unique composition of the School of Architecture and Cities combines those disciplines
 needed for the design of environmentally and socially sustainable places and mobilities in urban
 contexts. Staff work at the forefront of urban issues related to strategic design, place-making and
 mobilities. We encourage innovation and cross-fertilisation of ideas drawn from architecture,
 transport studies, urban planning, tourism and events. All these disciplines have a well-
 established history at the University of Westminster.

 The School has a very strong international reputation for research and hosts several high-profile
 research centres and groups (Table 1). These groups represent clear disciplinary areas within
 the School, combined with an increasingly strong interdisciplinary agenda. The groups have
 significantly strengthened their production of research outputs within each subject area and
 hugely extended international partnerships and collaborative arrangements over the current REF
 period. The School of Architecture and Cities has also provided leadership for the university-
 wide ‘Sustainable Cities and Urban Environments’ cross-disciplinary research community since
 2019 (Woltjer).

 For the current REF period, the research groups in Architecture include Architectural History and
 Theory (led by Jordan), Environment, Technology and Human Comfort (Lau, McLean),
 Expanded Territories (Bremner), and Experimental Practice (Rattenbury). The research groups
 in Transport Studies include Air Transport and Air Traffic Management Group (led by Cook), the
 Freight and Logistics Group (Piecyk), and Sustainable Mobility/Active Travel Academy (Aldred).
 The research groups in urban planning are Sustainable Urbanism and Urban Studies (Neuman,
 Verdini) and the Max Lock Centre (Lloyd-Jones), while tourism research is in the Tourism and
 Events Group (Graham, Smith). The Centre for the Study of the Production of the Built
 Environment (Wall) and the Centre for Urban Infrastructures (Woltjer) have an interdisciplinary
 agenda across the groups and Unit as a whole.

 Research group      Focus                                     Approach
 Air Transport and   Airline and airport research at the level Applied research projects
 Air Traffic         of route planning, operation and          Industrial research, addressing
 Management          competitive analysis                      economic and environmental
 Group               Operational practices and strategic       performance
                     planning and management of air traffic
                     control
 Architectural    Theoretical, historiographical and         Decolonising of architectural history
 History and      archive-based approaches to                and heritage
 Theory           architecture and material culture          Engagement with innovative
                  The way social practice and political      contemporary practices
                  structures intersect with the built
                  environment
 Centre for Urban Theoretical, policy, governance, and       Benefits of sustainable
 Infrastructure   applied aspects of urban                   infrastructures (transport, green,
                  infrastructures                            water)
                                                             Well-being and resilience in cities


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research group Focus                                        Approach
 Centre for the    Interdisciplinary and international       History of labour in architecture and
 Study of the      activity relating to the social processes construction
 Production of the that produce the built environment
 Built Environment
 Environment,      Environmental and ecological design Innovative construction
 Technology and Practice-driven research into the            technologies
 Human Comfort technological development of                  Building performance and the
 Group             architecture                              passive heating, cooling and
                                                             lighting of buildings
 Expanded          Architecture in an expanded,              Work framed by the discovery of
 Territories       interdisciplinary field (environmental the anthropocene
                   humanities, politics, science and         Questions of architecture’s material
                   technology studies and contemporary entanglement in planetary ecocide
                   materialist philosophy)
 Experimental      Research in the creative                  Professional and academic
 Practice EXP      methodologies, practices, teaching        ‘Supercrits’
                   and the experimental projects which Practice-based and design-based
                   act as the ‘laboratory’ of the            research
                   profession
 Freight and       Urban distribution and the                Freight, Transport and Logistics
 Logistics Group sustainability of freight transport and Research with partners from
                   logistics operations both in the UK and distribution and logistics firms and
                   internationally                           industry
 Max Lock Centre International sustainable development Poverty reduction, management
                   in all parts of the world                 and governance
                   Public policy and professional practice Community empowerment and
                   in urban and regional planning            building resilience
                                                             Sustainable livelihoods at
                                                             neighbourhood, city and regional
                                                             levels
 Active Travel     Planning for sustainable accessibility Interdisciplinary and high-impact
 / Sustainable     and transitions                           approach, rooted in social science
 Mobility          Low carbon mobility (walking, cycling, Research and policy funders on
                   wheeling, e/micromobilities, reducing topics from injury and near miss risk
                   car use, and active travel)               to active travel uptake
 Sustainable       Issues of planning, engineering,          Integration of infrastructure and
 Urbanism and      design, finance, heritage, and            urban development through new
 Urban Studies     governance for sustainable towns,         research and practice
                   cities, and regions                       Integration of planning, design and
                                                             policy to yield sustainability and
                                                             community resilience
 Tourism and       Role of tourism and events in             Examination of tourism and events
 Events Group      contemporary cities                       from the perspective of places and
                   City tourism, mega-events, festivals, spaces and as experiences
                   strategic experience design,
                   community-led tourism
 Table 1. Research groups and centres - UoA13 University of Westminster

 Engagement with practice is a vital and critical component of the School’s research culture.
 Alongside a passionate group of 77 research-productive staff (FTE: 63.6), the School hosts staff
 in high-impact professorial positions and influential visiting fellows from practice. Research
 activities, while often London- and UK-based, span Europe and the globe, with staff
 collaborating with a wide variety of influential partners worldwide. High-profile symposia and
 workshops are hosted on a regular basis.



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.1 Research Strategy

 The research strategy of the Unit is based on the solid foundation of achievements in REF2014.
 A substantive agenda was adopted around research that represents, suggests, scrutinises, and
 helps establish designs for environmentally and socially sustainable places. Designs are defined
 broadly as constructs, representations, models, or schemes, specifically related to intended
 action in urban contexts. This was further developed and detailed in 2018 to specify a focus on
 global issues of strategic design, production, sustainable place-making and mobilities. The
 research strategy has been set up specifically to reflect wider University priorities of being
 responsive to sustainability challenges, working collaboratively and drawing on the opportunities
 provided by our location in central London. The overall strategy for research within the Unit is
 focused on supporting all staff with significant responsibility for research to produce high-quality,
 internationally excellent research, as well as fostering internal and external research
 collaborations at both national and international levels.

 These goals have been delivered through a range of key policies for research. Such policies
 include a set of coordinated actions and arrangements at both University and School level,
 including:
     • establishment of appropriate institutional arrangements for University and School
         research management, including oversight by research committee and research groups
         (see below),
     • focused financial support and time allocation for independent research, funding
         application preparation and impact activities (below),
     • the establishment of an open and interdisciplinary research environment (below),
     • staff-oriented policies related to staff recruitment, staff development, and actions to
         facilitate equality, diversity and inclusion (see section 2),
     • enhanced support for research students (section 2),
     • facilitating staff successes around attracting research income (see section 3),
     • sustaining suitable research infrastructures and facilities (section 3), and
     • facilitating activities for major research collaborations and contributions to wider society
         (see section 4).
 The general institutional arrangements for research can be summarized as follows: The
 University provides academic leadership for research through a Pro-Vice Chancellor for
 Research and University and College Research Committees, supported by the central University
 Research and Knowledge Exchange Office (see REF5a). Schools are managed by a Head of
 School (Charrington) along with Assistant Heads for line management responsibilities and
 workload allocation. The School of Architecture and Cities has a School Research Lead
 (Woltjer) and a research committee, including members at various career stages and
 representation from all disciplines in the Unit (Charrington, Jordan, Aldred, Smith,
 Rattenbury, Woltjer). The committee manages School support activities for research and
 provides coordination between staff research activities, PhD research, and ongoing projects at
 the School level, including QR-related projects and funding schemes like the ‘Developing
 Researcher’ Scheme (see section 2). In 2020, the School Research Committee put specific
 efforts in place to support staff and their research projects to respond to COVID-19, focused
 particularly on ensuring staff and doctoral student resources and well-being, and the continued
 progress of funded projects. The Research Lead also organised specific meetings to discuss
 options for online data-collection, analysis, and dissemination with regard to the restrictions
 imposed by the pandemic.

 The Unit has benefitted considerably from strengthened University and School support for
 funding application preparation and management since the last REF. In particular, the Unit’s
 strategy has been advanced by University investment since 2018 in dedicated staff based within
 the Research and Knowledge Exchange Office (RKEO) to identify external funding opportunities
 and facilitate and manage applications both pre- and post-award. This has been accompanied
 by the introduction of a streamlined research applications process, which combines surveillance
 of funding opportunities, support in effective bid writing and rigorous oversight of drafts to ensure

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 high-quality applications. This process has been particularly successful in supporting members
 of staff to build their experience and profile by accessing funds from a range of different funders
 (see section 3).

 All researchers in the Unit are also able to draw upon the support and expertise of a full-time
 Research Development Partner, based within the RKEO, who identifies external funding
 opportunities and assists in the development and submission of applications. The work of the
 RDP is supplemented by a specialised Post-Award Project Manager to ensure support for bids
 both pre- and post-award. The RKEO also hosts a dedicated Impact Officer, with responsibility
 for facilitating and monitoring impact activities, as well as assisting in the preparation of impact
 case studies for the unit (see REF5a).

 A code of good research practice sets out a clear framework to ensure research is conducted to
 the highest standards of integrity (see REF5a). All researchers in the Unit are required to comply
 with the University Ethics Code and must obtain approval from University Ethics Committee
 before commencement of their work and where appropriate throughout the duration of the
 research.

 Financial support and time allocation: QR resources have been used to enable staff to devote
 substantial dedicated time to research and, as demonstrated in section 3 below, to support them
 in submitting successful research bids. As a result, the Unit has hosted several major projects
 funded by research councils, the European Commission and other funders during the REF
 census period. The Unit now boasts an outstanding portfolio of externally-funded research.
 Internal QR funding has also been used to fund staff conference participation and organisation,
 and, through competitively awarded seed funding, the development of new research projects
 and ideas. An essential part of the strategy has been to encourage, through these seed-projects,
 interdisciplinary research and research contributing to the global understanding of designs and
 their enactment for environmentally and socially sustainable places and mobilities in urban
 contexts.

 The award process for seed-projects was initially organised during the current REF period at a
 university level with project calls, anonymous internal review, and panel-review decisions
 administered centrally. Up to 2018 the University facilitated this process through the University
 Strategic Research Fund. Since 2019, with a new focus on interdisciplinary research, the
 University ‘Research Communities’ have run an improved process, emphasising cross-
 disciplinary research on key themes for the University: ‘Diversity and Inclusion’, ‘Health
 Innovation and Wellbeing’, ‘Arts, Communication and Culture’, and ‘Sustainable Cities and the
 Urban Environment’. Particular priority is given to those activities that involve public engagement
 and collaborations with external partners to support interdisciplinary exchange. Staff members in
 the Unit are involved with projects in all the communities. The Unit has overall leadership
 specifically for the ‘Sustainable Cities and the Urban Environment’ (SCUE) community (led by
 Woltjer). An example of a seed project from the Strategic Research Fund is ‘Housing and
 Labour: a pilot oral history of post-war council house building in England and Scotland’ (Wall).
 More recent examples of seed-project investments from SCUE include ‘Urban Mobility and the
 Margins’ (Kalra), ‘De-colonising urban and architectural curricula to enable effective climate
 actions’ (Verdini), ‘Reuse of urban transport infrastructures as green space for people's
 wellbeing’ (Kamvasinou), ‘Digital Innovation for Sustainable Urban Mobility’ (Papa), ‘Grassroots
 approaches for incremental upgrading of informal settlements in African cities’ (Cascone),
 ‘Programming public space: festivity / diversity / inclusivity’ (Smith), and ‘Ageing Air Passengers:
 Supporting Inclusion within the Air Transport Door-to-Door Journey’ (Graham). A team of
 Research Community Leads, support officers in the RKEO, and the principal investigators for the
 projects work together to develop the seed projects further in terms of impact activities and grant
 proposal writing aimed at external funding.

 The School provides dedicated funds of up to around £18k in total annually for staff members to
 present papers at international conferences and/or to support research field trips. Further
 resources are available, for example for staff to organise events for both academic and

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 practitioner audiences. There is also School funding to support the completion of research
 outputs and to organise events. The Unit has been able to contribute to research on issues of
 social sustainability, design and urban contexts in the global south through resources from the
 Global Challenges Research Fund allocated to the University of Westminster. Research
 activities have focused, for example, on micromobile megacities in Mexico (Aldred), African ‘Off-
 Grid Housing’ (Cascone), improvised architectural responses in Bangladesh (Fellows), and
 inequalities around urban water in Indonesia (Woltjer). The University of Westminster’s Quintin
 Hogg Trust – a charity founded in 1903 to support education at the University – has also funded
 projects in the Unit specifically for research linked to teaching, including, for example, research
 by Schiano-Phan entitled ‘Realising Sustainability: Building Environmental Awareness into an
 Enhanced Student Experience’. In 2019 the Quintin Hogg Trust awarded a further £582k over
 three years to the Unit for the Active Travel Academy (Aldred), generously covering posts and
 studentships alongside projects and events supporting the research and pedagogical
 environment on sustainable mobility.

 As the above makes clear, research activity across the Unit is underpinned by a clear
 commitment to interdisciplinarity, with many projects spanning various subject boundaries to
 forge innovative new directions for research. Specific interdisciplinary and cross-university
 opportunities for the Unit have been with cities-, urban-, mobilities-, technology-, and place-
 oriented themes. This extends core disciplinary areas in the Unit (i.e., architecture, planning,
 transport, tourism) through intersections with disciplines like sociology, international studies,
 engineering, health, media studies, arts, management, and design. Such linkages are clearly
 visible in the examples listed above. Additional funding and support from the central QR budget
 for the University has been available to colleagues to support collaborations across disciplinary
 boundaries.

 Both the School and wider University are committed to the pursuit of an open research
 environment. The Unit complies with UKRI, European Commission and REF open access
 requirements and staff are encouraged to make their work as accessible as possible. The
 University supports a mixed green and gold model of open access for academic publications.
 Staff are further supported to pursue a range of open access research outputs through the
 University Article Processing Charges Fund. The University has also invested in its own peer-
 reviewed open access publishing platform (the University of Westminster Press), to which the
 Unit has, for example, contributed a successful edited volume: Destination London (2019). For
 further details, see REF5a.

 An institutional repository, ‘WestminsterResearch’, operates via the University Virtual Research
 Environment (VRE), administered by a dedicated Open Access team, and is sector-leading in its
 capacity to capture and enable open access to practice-based research, including architectural
 designs, exhibitions, multimedia works and artefacts, as well as text-based outputs (see REF5a).
 Practice-based researchers in the Unit have worked closely with the University VRE steering
 group and Research Data Management Group to further develop practice-based portfolios’
 functionality for the Repository. These technical developments will allow us to openly publish our
 research portfolios, facilitating our aim to lead on key debates around transparency in research
 and practice. We will publish key examples of our portfolio submissions to REF2021 through the
 VRE in 2021. This strategy, developed with staff in the University’s Library and Scholarly
 Communications team, aims to further embed and enhance understanding across the sector of
 practice research methods and complex outputs (where metadata is added to the VRE) in
 relation to the long-term capture, display, discovery and preservation of practice-based research.

 1.2 Impact Strategy

 The body of research included in the Unit is characterised by its applied nature and thus
 relevance to practitioners and policy makers. The applied and practice-oriented nature of our
 research is the basis of our ability to create substantial impact, particularly on practices and
 policies in fields such as urban sustainability, transport planning, urban planning, housing and
 tourism. The Unit is very strong in terms of knowledge exchange activities, particularly where

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 policies or policy guidance or the societal status of buildings and places have been changed
 following research and dissemination. Research in the Unit has produced a variety of designs,
 piloting and modelling schemes and strategies that have informed stakeholders like NGOs,
 corporations, and governments globally in areas such as cycling policy, historic regeneration,
 sustainable freight transport, energy efficient buildings, public space usage for major events, and
 delay cost management in European aviation. The Unit is responsible for environmental
 improvements, but particularly also improvements to the social sustainability of communities and
 groups, thereby strengthening quality of life, diversity and inclusion in places across the world.

 Support to foster and develop research impact has been provided at the level of the School and
 University through the provision of dedicated funds to enable impact-related activities such as
 public engagement and the translation of research into action (see also below). Support has also
 been provided at the level of the School through internal impact workshops, mentoring and
 support for events that bring researchers together with practitioners. The central Researcher
 Development Programme at the University has organised a variety of sessions, on impact and
 engagement, in addition to sessions on research funding, knowledge exchange, publishing,
 research ethics, and careers. The School of Architecture and Cities has also provided further
 support for impact events. The Workload Allocation Model has further enabled the Head and
 Assistant Heads of School to designate specific hours for impact activities as a part of overall
 workload, ensuring that impact activities are recognised as a core academic responsibility.
 The Unit has been responsible for creating a wide range of major national and international
 impacts during the current REF period. A useful sample of the main impact areas in the Unit is
 reflected in the impacts narrated in our five submitted case studies as follows:

 Effects on commerce and the economy: Research impacts created by the Air Transport and Air
 Traffic Management Group (Cook et al) include optimising industry practice regarding airport
 delays, cost-savings, shaping airport allocation practice, and providing a much-used model for
 calculating delay costs in European aviation. Another example of impacts emerges from projects
 and research on sustainable freight transport in the Freight and Logistics Group (Piecyk et al).
 The types of impact include policy/guidance, industry adoption (e.g., parcel delivery companies),
 and environmental impact of reducing deliveries. The activities are based on knowledge
 exchange with industry, think-tanks and government on infrastructure and climate change. Direct
 engagement between the researchers and stakeholders have helped enable these impacts,
 particularly through the funded projects the Unit has accommodated and that these research
 groups have carried out.

 Impacts on public policy, laws and services: Research by Aldred, on cycling behaviour and
 policy, has led to improved policies (such as those for Transport for London), changing
 institutional attitudes, changing cultural attitudes, and increasing adoption of cycling in the UK
 and overseas (and thus reducing pollution from car mobility). Her research also has produced
 significant improvements in road safety, thereby aiding efficient town planning, and professional
 engagement. Smith’s research on the social dimensions of major events and urban change has
 created impacts such as informing regeneration strategies of major events, creating public
 awareness of public space usage for major events, and facilitating the work of community
 organisations. These impacts include policy guidance and strategies based on research, for
 instance, by the London Olympics committee. The Unit also has a range of other examples of
 policy impact, including research that has helped local government institutions to obtain funding
 for regeneration work or to devise policy guidelines, and contributions to quality of life. The
 impact strategy for the Unit has helped facilitate dissemination activities, media engagement,
 establish specific events, and project funding related to all the policy-related impacts mentioned
 here.

 Impacts on creativity, culture and society: A prominent example of these kinds of impacts
 includes Saleem’s research on establishing the heritage profile of British mosques. The types of
 influence include gaining Historic England heritage status for mosques, increasing diversity and
 inclusion in heritage practice, thereby obtaining government protection for mosques. There are
 also broader impacts in terms of raising the international profile of Historic England and

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developing a diverse architectural archive as well as social benefits of community integration
 and recognition.

 Other types of impact achieved at the Unit include research used for implementing sustainable
 design and construction methods, creating social benefits of increased communality, and
 improving quality of life. The impact strategy for the Unit has helped to provide seed-funding,
 and to support dissemination, engagement activities and events related to the specific research
 listed here, and thus enhance impact across the subject area.

 1.3 Future Research Strategy

 The Unit’s future research strategy is informed by the ambition to enhance its capabilities in
 order to deliver further innovative knowledge contributions to society. To enable this, the unit will
 be seeking over the next five years to:

    •   Expand its leadership for, and investment in, interdisciplinary research about sustainable
        cities, mobilities, and transformative urban and built environments in the UK, Europe and
        the Asia-Pacific, for example through its leading role for the ‘Sustainable Cities and the
        Urban Environment’ Research Community (led from 2021 by Smith) at the university;
    •   Refocus and consolidate its research groups so to encourage imagination, creative
        capacity and innovation on emerging themes. Relevant groupings will be established
        across the disciplines that define the School (architecture, planning, transport, tourism) to
        include research on strategic design, place and experience, mobilities, and territorial
        transitions.
    •   Strengthen mentoring arrangements within the groups, by appointing conveners for each
        group, and by expanding existing arrangements for mentoring circles including all staff.
        The Unit will commit to further developing its strategies around seed-funding and early-
        career support.
    •   Engage actively in opportunities for post-Brexit research funding, particularly with regard
        to UK participation in EU funding programmes including Horizon Europe, for example for
        research on air transport and sustainable mobility.
    •   Monitor and address any underrepresentation of staff regarding all protected
        characteristics, in all institutional arrangements for research in the Unit.

 2. People

 2.1 Staff

 The Unit currently has 12 Professors (Charrington, Aldred, Bremner, Cook, Graham,
 Griffiths, Neuman, Piecyk, Rattenbury, Richens, Wall, Woltjer), 8 Readers (Barber, Deriu,
 Lau, Lloyd-Jones, Papa, Pappalepore, Smith, Verdini) and over 50 other staff members with
 significant responsibility for research. The group of Professors and Readers play a leading role
 in the facilitation of research in the Unit, for example as mentors, as Principal Investigators for
 projects, and by broader research leadership across the University.

 One of the Unit’s central aims post-REF2014 was to increase the number of research-active
 staff to a level exceeding 50% of all staff within the subject area. This has been achieved and
 the Unit now has 77 (63.60 FTE) staff with a significant responsibility for research in the Unit,
 representing 68% of all Category A eligible staff within the School. This represents a dramatic
 increase in the research intensity of the Unit, more than doubling the number of staff submitted
 in REF2014 (when the Unit submitted 35 staff / 25.37 FTE).

 The increase in research-active staff has been achieved through staff development and support,
 as well as a strategic policy towards staff recruitment. Appointments are made from those with a
 strong research record and a commitment towards contributing to knowledge beyond teaching
 alone. All recent appointments have been on permanent contracts, although some part-time
 visiting lecturers are also appointed to fill gaps in teaching provision or to provide specialist

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 inputs to particular modules. In addition to lecturers and senior lecturers, research associates
 and research fellows are recruited for funded project work so to fulfil the requirements of
 externally-funded research contracts.

 New and early-career staff (including part-time and fixed-term staff) are encouraged to join one
 of the research groups in order to receive mentoring and guidance. The Unit has been able to
 provide funding support for early-career researchers, for example through the ‘Researcher
 Development Scheme’. Staff members such as Cao (‘Sustainable Travel and Well-being in
 Asian Cities’), Ayuso (‘Body Agents’), and Dolezal (‘Tourism, SDGs and Development in the
 Global South’) have all been able to benefit from these funds.

 The School operates a number of policies to ensure that quality and integrity are maintained in
 all research-related activities. The University has a series of ethics advisors, a Research Ethics
 Committee to deal with ethics applications, and to provide guidance to staff on all ethics issues
 (see REF5a).

 The School provides continuous support to its researchers at all levels through a system of
 mentoring so that more experienced researchers and authors provide guidance, support and
 feedback to less experienced colleagues on research applications and drafts for publication. In
 addition, the University runs a series of training programmes on different aspects of bidding for
 funding, writing high-quality research proposals, getting published, and dissemination, with the
 support of the Research Development Officer.

 Our staff development strategy has focused on supporting staff (full-time, fractional and fixed-
 term) at all levels through mentoring, advice and financial assistance in, for example, attending
 conferences and initiating new research projects. QR income has been allocated for conference
 and project support, as well as to create staff time for research and opportunities for staff to bid
 for external funding. Formalised mentoring arrangements are in place, with staff completing
 development plans on a yearly basis, and a specific research mentoring system for all engaged
 in preparing bids and in academic publishing. In addition, a staff appraisal process enables
 individual research objectives to be identified and personal development plans to support the
 achievement of those objectives to be agreed with managers. Staff development funds are used
 where possible to provide training, delivered internally or externally, or to acquire specific skills.
 Research groups run regular seminar programmes and several events each year focus on wider
 issues such as getting published and preparing successful bids. Staff are also encouraged to
 attend training events organised through the Researcher Development Programme (see below).

 The Unit recognises that it is crucial that our staff have sufficient time to carry out their research.
 The allocation of hours specifically to undertake independent research (additional to any funded
 research time) occurs on the basis of research plans as part of annual appraisal. This process
 involves coordination between the Head of School, Assistant Heads of School, and research
 staff, and seeks to identify options for research time allocation resulting in research income,
 outputs and impact. Hour allocation is based on transparent norms following the University
 ‘Work Allocation Model’, which are evaluated and decided annually for each staff member
 (through the appraisal cycle). Professors and Readers are standardly allocated research time
 amounting to a minimum of 425 hours pro rata from a total workload of 1504 hours. Other staff
 are allocated research time of 350, 250 or 100 hours pro rata, depending on their level of
 research responsibility. Additional hours may be allocated to colleagues developing funding
 applications (30 to 120 hours) and all staff receive a further 174 hours for scholarship activities.

 The Unit has seen several promotions of existing staff over the period, including to Professor or
 Reader status. This is strong evidence of the success of our staff development strategy, with the
 Unit supporting staff and encouraging them to apply to the University system of application and
 promotion to Reader and Professor. This system is based on external review and coordinated by
 the university ‘Professors and Readers Awarding Committee’. Within the Unit, five out of the
 current group of twelve professors have been appointed through this process during the current


                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 REF period. Similarly, five out of the group of eight Readers have been promoted to Reader
 from positions as Senior Lecturers, between 2014 and 2020.

 2.2 Research Students

 The University of Westminster has a university-wide Graduate School, established in 2012,
 which promotes a distinctive multi-disciplinary experience for doctoral researchers. An emphasis
 is on engagement with relevant external stakeholders including research organisations,
 employers, policy-makers, non-governmental organisations, the media, and the wider public.
 The Graduate School, as well as overseeing student progression and career development,
 offers a range of developmental and training activities, including seminars and networking
 events to facilitate sharing of best practice for doctoral students, which are supplemented, in
 turn, by more discipline-specific training at School level. The Unit has a dedicated PhD
 Coordinator (Smith), who serves as a guide, coordinates PhD-research activities, and deals with
 admissions enquiries, progress reviews and vivas.

 Research student training is managed through the Graduate School's Doctoral Researcher
 Development Programme (DRDP), which is based on the Vitae Researcher Development
 Framework. It provides workshops, specialist skills sessions, briefings on the Annual Progress
 Review process, and personal development planning activities in each year of study. Students
 are also able to attend teaching and learning workshops and to do work leading to the
 Postgraduate Certificate of Special Study in Supporting Learning. The DRDP covers topics and
 issues identified by practising researchers, offering also from discipline-specific modules on
 science and technology and cities and the built environment. For further details, see REF5a.

 PhD students take a research methods module which runs twice yearly. Students are also able
 to select from various modules on environmental science and the built environment disciplines
 and/or other modules relevant to their interests. Schools run a series of practice-based
 workshops throughout the year. There are twice-yearly symposia at which doctoral researchers
 present their work. All PhD students are encouraged to play a leading role in the design and
 organisation of events, supported by administrative and academic staff. The Graduate School
 offers two sessions per academic year for new or aspiring supervisors and two sessions per
 year for experienced supervisors. Staff also take the Supervising Student Research module,
 delivered by the Researcher Development Programme.

 A key objective since 2014 has been to increase the capacity in the Unit for PhD supervision. In
 achieving this, staff have utilised staff training opportunities for supervision, and new staff have
 been appointed on the basis of having a PhD and thus potential future supervision capacity
 themselves. The Unit has been able to support PhD students locally through bursaries and fee
 waivers and funding (at both School and University level) to cover travel, conferences and
 essential production costs. A recent example of such studentships include two full PhD
 studentships funded by the Quintin Hogg Trust starting in 2020. In the selection of successful
 applications, the University emphasises that any research proposals should have strong inter-
 disciplinary potential. Monitoring and progress activities are well established and are supported
 by an online ‘Virtual Research Environment’ (VRE).

 The Unit currently hosts 44 individuals actively working on their MPhil and PhD research. The
 size of the MPhil/PhD community has increased by around 25% since 2014, with most growth
 occurring over the last two years. On average 5 candidates complete their PhD successfully
 each year, with an expectation that these numbers will increase following recent growth in
 admissions. Between 2014 and 2020, 28 candidates have completed their PhD. Our doctoral
 programme focuses on academic research and, for this reason, completions do not include any
 research-based professional doctorates.

 Like the research staff in the Unit, the MPhil and PhD students are a diverse group. The gender
 balance (women-men) has been around 60:40 among doctoral students over the REF-period.
 Around half of the PhD graduates continue in academic posts elsewhere, as lecturer,

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 postdoctoral research fellow, or research associate in the UK and abroad, in all disciplines
 relevant for the Unit (architecture, urban planning, transport, tourism). Students have also been
 shortlisted for prizes such as the RIBA President’s Award for Outstanding PhD Thesis (Nunez
 Ferrera, 2015).

 2.3 Equality and Diversity

 The Unit has a strong commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion and to fostering a
 supportive research and working environment.

 The gender balance at professor level currently is 50:50, thanks to a range of recent
 appointments. The overall gender-balance for research-active staff in the Unit as a whole is
 around 40:60 (women:men), mainly because of an underrepresentation of women in the
 categories ‘Reader’, ‘Principal Lecturer’, and ‘Senior Research Associate’. The balance is 50:50
 for staff in the position of ‘Lecturer’, ‘Research Associate’, and ‘Senior Lecturer’. Staff data for
 the Unit suggest that it has a similar ethnicity profile (including BME) compared to total university
 numbers of staff with significant responsibility for research.

 A key issue following REF2014 was the age composition of the Unit. Age composition was a
 concern for the Unit given an overrepresentation of staff over the age of 55, while younger staff
 were underrepresented. This prompted the Unit to initiate a succession strategy that encouraged
 and supported early career researchers and worked to ensure that effective mentoring policies
 were in place to draw on the experience of those with greater research experience. The focus
 has been on support for and recruitment of early career researchers. This policy has been
 successful as age composition is now more balanced, with around 28% in the 35-44 age-
 bracket, 41% at 45-54, and 20% at 55-64. These numbers are similar to averages for the
 university, although the Unit now has higher numbers in the mid-age range (45-54).

 The Unit has relatively high levels of part-time staff. While the University contains around 23% of
 staff eligible for REF on part-time contracts, the Unit is at 45%. This Unit, therefore, has
 considerable staff in fractional posts, with many of these working in professional architectural
 practices or carrying out other forms of consultancy. Staff in these positions contribute valuable
 knowledge, skills and viewpoints from practice. Others provide advice and assistance to third
 sector organisations, resulting in a substantial interchange between practice, research and
 academia.

 Members of the Unit have committed to supporting and actively addressing diversity and equal
 opportunity issues in any institutional arrangements relevant for research. Fundamental physical
 and institutional conditions to support diversity and inclusion have improved over the REF
 period, for example with regard to disabled access on Marylebone Campus, investments in
 assistive technology, and attention to staff development on diversity. More recent actions have
 focused on establishing a much broader awareness of equality and inclusion. All Unit members
 have completed renewed training in unconscious bias, diversity and equal opportunities
 processes. Issues of equality and diversity in research are on the agendas and in renewed
 Terms of Reference for all research committees. The Unit has committed to inclusive practices
 in all its research events and activities and in the actions of research partners.

 A crucial action at university-level has been to commit to a series of Black Lives Matter
 commitments. Staff in the Unit play an active role in the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Committee, and in staff networks such as the LGBTQ+ Staff Network, the BME Staff Network,
 and Women of Westminster Staff Network (see REF5a). A practical implication, for example for
 job applications in the Unit, is that advertisements for new jobs in the Unit make clear that
 applications from Black and Minority Ethnic staff are especially welcomed. The Unit has
 established specific activities around decolonising and diversifying its programmes, projects, and
 disciplines, for example through the ‘Decolonising Architecture History’ seminars series, and a
 2020 Unit-funded research project focusing on globally-informed and transformative knowledge
 to enable decolonisation and inclusive city climate actions.

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Considerations around equality and diversity were taken into account also in REF2021
 preparations for staff submission to REF and in the selection of outputs. The UoA lead and staff
 involved in the assessment of outputs for this submission received training in all relevant aspects
 of equality and diversity for REF2021 as set out in the University’s Code of Practice. The quality
 of outputs was determined through processes of peer review with both internal reviewers (a
 group of 14 Readers and Professors within the Unit, of mixed gender and other protected
 characteristics, and representing all disciplines in the school) and four external reviewers who
 had experience with REF processes in their respective universities and who had a similarly
 diverse background. Following University policy, submitted outputs were selected by taking one
 piece per member of staff and then selecting the remaining outputs by quality from the remaining
 pool. These have been graded by at least two internal reviewers with a large sample reviewed
 by the four external reviewers. Where evaluation resulted in the same grade, representation of
 staff with protected characteristics and of different research areas within the School were taken
 into consideration in the final selection of outputs. The selection of outputs has been reviewed by
 the University REF Equality and Diversity committee to ensure due regard to these issues.
 Transparency in decision making and implementation was further ensured through the use of the
 University online data platform for research (Virtual Research Environment), shared information
 processing during regular meetings of all UoA Leads within the University, and through scrutiny
 by the University REF Director.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income

 This Unit has a long and successful record of securing research income from UK research
 councils, the European Commission, central government, government agencies, industry and
 charitable sources. Continuing an upward trend from REF2014, the Unit has maintained a
 steadily growing level of income from a variety of industry, government and charitable sources
 and has the high-quality infrastructure in place to sustain this.

 A key aim for the Unit has been to increase the number and overall value of externally funded
 research proposals. This aim has clearly been achieved as the amount of proposals submitted
 has grown from around 6 yearly between 2014 and 2017 to around 10 proposals yearly in 2018
 and 2019. The annual value of project income has increased from £0.723M for 2013, to an
 average annual amount of around £1.5M in awarded projects in each of the last four years. To
 help reach this goal, the Unit has used research coordinators within the school who encourage
 staff to develop new research initiatives and prepare bids. All researchers also benefit from a
 full-time Research Development Partner attached to the School and based within the University
 Research and Knowledge Exchange Office (RKEO), who identifies new external funding
 opportunities and supports applications. Bid writing is further supported through RKEO support
 for the Unit, and pre- and post-bid support offered by dedicated staff, who have further assisted
 in developing the research culture of the Unit through training and bid-writing workshops. A
 crucial improvement has been the embedding more strongly of processes of peer review for
 research grant applications before submission.

 The School operates a robust and supportive system to ensure the high quality of research
 proposals. The Unit’s Research Lead is the first port of call for colleagues intending to develop a
 proposal. Once the Lead is clear that the idea is intellectually strong, significant and fulfils the
 targeted funder’s criteria, the colleague is directed to the Research Development Partner to
 develop the proposal. A draft of the proposal is reviewed by experienced research colleagues.
 Colleagues must obtain authorisation from the Head of School and College Research Director in
 order to submit an application. This process has enabled the Unit to promote the highest quality
 for those applications that are ultimately submitted.

 The combination of individual research support through seed-funding, support for activities and
 the more systematic research funding support regime has increased noticeably the number of

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 colleagues applying for and receiving funding and the amount of funding received in this REF
 period (Figure 1). The figure shows considerable growth in securing external funding. It should
 be noted here that projects in most cases have a multiyear scope, with the level of funded
 projects implemented at the Unit typically distributed over the years following a peak in income,
 such as in 2016.




 Figure 1. External research funding income by source (Millions GBP) - UoA13 University of
 Westminster

 Externally funded projects in the Unit range from funding by research councils (AHRC, ESRC,
 EPSRC, NERC, and ERC), charities (including British Academy, Leverhulme Trust, Wellcome
 Trust, British Council, Royal Society, OECD, Volvo Foundation, European Climate Foundation,
 United Nations), government agencies (e.g., TfL, London Assembly, DfID, DEFRA, and London
 boroughs), and the European Commission. Income from externally funded projects, therefore, is
 prominent, particularly in research activities around planning and transport, and sustainable
 mobilities. The most prominent source of external research funding for the Unit is the European
 Commission, with a total of £4.874M in research income from this source. Funding from
 Research Councils and Government is also significant, with respective values of £1.131M and
 £1.069M over the REF period.

 The Unit has a particularly rich portfolio of large research projects funded through the European
 Commission. Two research groups have been particularly successful: Air Transport and Air
 Traffic Management (led by Cook, representing 14 projects with an income value for the Unit of
 around £5.5M over the whole period), and Freight and Logistics (led by Piecyk, for a total
 project income value of around £800K). The projects on air traffic management projects feature
 a wide range of industry partners and a Europe-wide knowledge transfer network. The European
 projects for Freight and Logistics focus on sustainable logistics practices in urban centres.

 Principal Investigators for research-council funding include Aldred (Sustainable Mobility/Active
 Travel Academy), Alan & Piecyk (Freight and Logistics), Smith (Tourism and Events), and
 Bremner (Expanded Territories). Relevant examples are Aldred’s ‘Near Miss’ project (AHRC),
 Piecyk’s ‘Centre for Sustainable Road Freight’ project (EPSRC), Papa’s project entitled
 'Experimenting with city streets to Transform urban mobility' (ESRC), and Bremner’s project for
 the European Research Council (ERC) entitled ‘Monsoon Assemblages’. This project involves a


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 design-driven inquiry into the impacts of changing monsoon climates in three of South Asia’s
 rapidly growing cities.

 Funding from public corporations or government agencies include a range of projects led by
 Aldred (Sustainable Mobility/Active Travel Academy), Lloyd-Jones (Max Lock Centre), and
 Allen (Freight and Logistics). Major funders include Transport for London, the Department for
 International Development, the London Assembly, Department for Environment, Food & Rural
 Affairs, Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (with UCL, BSRIA and SP
 Technical Sweden, led at Westminster by the late Colin Gleeson), and London boroughs.

 Projects funded by UK and overseas charities have been led by Lloyd-Jones (Max Lock
 Centre), Aldred (Sustainable Mobility/Active Travel Academy), Deriu (Architectural History and
 Theory), Kamvasinou (Urban Infrastructures), and Woltjer (Urban Infrastructures). Examples
 include Lloyd-Jones’ work on urban planning in India (DFID), Deriu’s ‘Architecture and Vertigo’
 (British Academy), Smith’s project on festivals, events and inclusive urban public spaces in
 Europe (HERA), Woltjer’s work on sustainable urban infrastructure and social inclusion (British
 Council), and Aldred’s research project on reducing cycling injuries (Road Safety Trust).
 Kamvasinou ran a project for the Leverhulme Trust entitled ‘Interim space and creative use’.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 Research staff and research students in the Unit have a rich set of infrastructures and facilities
 available, all concentrated on our Marylebone Campus in central London. An overview of
 infrastructure and facilities pertaining to research and research impact is provided below. The
 overview includes details on spaces and the estate, computing, the library, technical resources
 available to staff, and facilities enabled by the central London location of the Unit.

 All research staff have individual office spaces. Research groups that are based on projects with
 considerable funding have specific project rooms to facilitate team-working, typically between
 principal investigators, research associates and research fellows. Principal investigators for
 these groups are Bremner (Monsoon Assemblages), Aldred (Sustainable Mobility/Active Travel
 Academy), Lloyd-Jones (Max Lock Centre), Cook (Air Traffic Management Group), and Piecyk
 (Freight and Logistics Group).

 PhD researchers and guest researchers are provided with a desk and computer in the large
 research room that the Unit has available on the 6th floor of the main building at Marylebone
 Campus. This room offers opportunities for PhD researchers to work on campus in the vicinity of
 key facilities provided at Marylebone Campus.

 The Fabrication Laboratory Westminster (Fab Lab, coordinated by Scott) is a facility established
 in 2015 at an initial cost of £1,468,732 with the aim to provide a strengthened learning and
 research environment around digital fabrication. Compared to REF2014 the Fab Lab represents
 a major extension in the capacity of architecture and design workshops. It includes two purpose-
 built spaces, offering advanced digital making facilities. It is equipped with flexible computer-
 controlled tools, covering a wide range of scales, materials and processes including ABS and
 plaster 3D printing, CNC knife cutting, large-scale CNC routing, CNC metal milling and robot
 fabrication. The Fab Lab supports several PhD students and staff in their research (e.g., Mamou
 Mani, Watson, Cascone, Ayuso, Griffiths).

 A vast area of design studios is situated at Marylebone Campus, creating a vibrant academic
 and creative studio culture with research staff, research students, and the broader student
 community interacting around dedicated themes. Since 2015 the studios have undergone a
 £5.2m refurbishment programme, providing facilities for collaborative learning. The studios are
 fitted with computers throughout, all equipped with graphics and CAD software.

 Ambika P3 is a space for contemporary art and architecture, developed from the vast former
 concrete construction hall at the University of Westminster. Located in the heart of central

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 London, Ambika P3 runs a public programme of exhibitions, projects, talks and events dedicated
 to innovation, experimentation and learning. Ambika P3 operates as a laboratory and meeting
 place for practitioners, industry and academia. Examples of research-oriented exhibitions, talks
 and events led by staff in the Unit include ‘Potential Architecture’ (2015, Heron, Griffiths), ‘Fab
 Fest’ (2016, 2018, Scott), ‘ADAPT-r’ (2016, Heron), ‘Super Crit’ (annually, Rattenbury), ‘Falling
 Away’ (2020, Deriu).

 The Marylebone Library is based at our Marylebone Campus and was the subject of a major
 refurbishment between 2014 and 2017 at a total cost of £2,947,414. This includes a wide range
 of rich resources (books journals, databases, archives, collections) on subjects and disciplines
 relevant for the Unit (Architecture, Planning, Transport, Tourism). Such resources are accessible
 online for all staff and students through the Library website. The Library also has specialised
 Academic Liaison Librarians, who provide tailored advice and support.

 A crucial facility for researchers in the Unit is in its computers with dedicated software.
 Password-protected, dedicated computers are located on Marylebone Campus, in the library
 computer lab, in studios and project rooms, and accessible online. Currently the Unit has digital-
 research activity in a range of areas. Mapping and GIS applications (ArcGIS, QGIS, Google
 World Maps and OS Maps) are used in the fields of planning and transport. Staff members in
 planning, tourism and transport use software for statistical analysis (R, R Project and SPSS).
 Survey software including Qualtrics is used around the Unit for a variety of projects, including for
 example the London Green Space Survey. A further set of software applications is employed for
 transport modelling and simulation (TRICS, Vissim, Visual Transport Modeller, and a range of
 software tools for Air Traffic Management). Digital tools around content- and text analysis are
 mainly used in planning, tourism, and architectural history (Nvivo, MaxQDA, Atlas.ti). Design-
 related software is used throughout the school typically in the architectural disciplines and urban
 design. Key software includes Google Sketchup Pro, Adobe CC and Rhinoceros (with a range of
 Plugins, such as Grasshopper). Relevant construction- and design software includes the various
 applications by Autodesk (including AutoCAD), ArchiCAD, Arduino, Bentley Suite, IES-VE.
 Occasionally, researchers apply environmental-science tools including EDSL Tas, Envi-Met,
 Meteonorm.

 Marylebone Campus houses outstanding facilities for research meetings, seminars, workshops
 and conferences. The Unit has their own state-of-the-art seminar room, the Robin Evans Room,
 providing flexible space for collaborative research and events. Our central London location also
 means that researchers have access to some of the best research resources in the world within
 walking distance, including the library and spaces at the Royal Institute of British Architects
 (RIBA), the British Library, the Wellcome Trust Building and Library, and the London
 Metropolitan Archives. Relevant stakeholders for research (including policy agencies like
 Transport for London, NGOs, and various funders and government departments) typically are
 located in central London as well.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The Unit has considerably expanded its range of national and international collaborations
 through key projects and newly established partnerships since 2014. A high priority has been to
 continue and expand engagement with both industry and academic partners. The period has
 thus seen increased collaboration around specific projects, new funding opportunities and
 dissemination, while also taking advantage of new funding opportunities arising from research
 councils, EU funding, industry and the charitable sector.

 A key aim has been to expand the network of international partners for the Unit. The focus has
 been on collaborative research through project partnerships and collaborative research
 (including co-authored work). International collaborations have a strong focus on Europe and the
 Asia-Pacific (South-, Southeast- and East-Asia).



                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 2. Map of collaboration partners 2014-2020 -UoA13 University of Westminster

 The international position of research in the Unit is evident from collaboration partners in 82
 externally funded projects in the Unit between 2014 and 2020. The emphasis in project
 collaboration is on the UK, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific (South-, East- and Southeast Asia, and
 Australia, see Figure 2). Co-authorship with international partners, external PhD examinations,
 visiting scholar- and professorships, and internationally hosted workshops and conferences
 reveal a similar geographical pattern.

 Project-partners in the UK include Cranfield University, Heriot-Watt University, Imperial College
 London, King's College London, University College London, University of Cambridge, University
 of Manchester, and University of the West of England. Elsewhere in Europe, project cooperation
 features universities in countries like Belgium (KU Leuven), Denmark (Danmarks Tekniske
 Universitet), France (Ecole Nationale de l'Aviation Civile), Germany (Technical University of
 Munich, Technische Universität Berlin), Greece (University of Athens), Ireland (Dublin Institute of
 Technology), Italy (Universities in Pisa, Palermo, Roma, Trieste, luav di Venezia, Bologna,
 Milano), Lithuania (Kaunas University of Technology), Netherlands (Delft University of
 Technology), Poland (Cracow University of Technology), Portugal (Instituto de Ciencias Sociais,
 New University of Lisbon), Serbia (University of Belgrade), Spain (Universitat Autònoma de
 Barcelona, Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya), Sweden (Gothenburg University, Stockholm
 University), and Turkey (Istanbul Technical University). Collaboration in the Asia-Pacific includes
 with institutions in Bangladesh (Research Initiatives Bangladesh, Bengal Institute for
 Architecture, Landscapes and Settlements), China (Beijing Jiaotong University, Peking
 University, Tongji University, Tsinghua University, Hong Kong Polytechnic University), India
 (Anna University, IIT Madras), Indonesia (Institut Teknologi Bandung), Malaysia (University
 Tekhnologi Mara), Thailand (Mahidol University), and Australia (Griffith University, Royal
 Melbourne Institute of Technology).

 A further indication of the extent of our collaborative activities involves extensive co-authorship,
 external PhD examinations, visiting scholar- and professorships, and the organisation of
 workshops or conferences. Co-authors on research outputs in the Unit cover a range of over 50
 different institutional affiliations. Staff have been invited for external PhD examination at over 20
 universities mainly throughout the UK and Europe. Visiting scholar- and professorships have
 been held by Deriu (IUAV University of Venice), Griffiths (Yale University), Leonardi (École

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 d’Ingénieurs La Rochelle), Neuman (University Federico II, University of Aalborg, University of
 Malaya), Novy (Brandenburg University of Technology, Politecnico di Milano), Pandya (School
 of Architecture & Urban Design Vidhyanagar), and Verdini (Polytechnic Mohammed VI
 University of Ben Guerir, Xi’an Jiaotong-Liverpool University). Woltjer has been awarded two
 honorary professorships (Institute of Technology Bandung, University of Groningen).

 Staff members are involved as members and reviewers for a variety of peer review bodies.
 These memberships include Bailey (Research Grant Council of Hong Kong), Leonardi
 (European Commission, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change), Verdini (European
 Commission), Wall (RIBA Research Awards), and Woltjer (UKRI-ESRC Peer Review College,
 Open Research Area Panel, Swedish Research Council for Environment, Netherlands
 Organisation for Scientific Research).

 The Unit includes memberships of over 25 research networks and fellowships of learned
 institutes. These memberships cover all research groups and disciplines. For the transport
 disciplines, for example, Unit members play an active role in organisations like the Air Transport
 Research Society (ATRS), the Association of European Transport (AET), the Chartered Institute
 of Logistics and Transport (CILT), the Chartered Institute of Highways and Transportation
 (CIHT), the Institute for Aviation Research (IAR), the International Federation of Operational
 Research Societies (IFORS), the Royal Statistical Society (RSS), and the World Society for
 Transport and Land Use Research (WSTLUR).

 Memberships for architecture include the Architectural Humanities Research Association, the
 Association for Computer Aided Design in Architecture (ACADIA), the Construction History
 Society (CHS), the European Architectural History Network (EAHN), the International Building
 Performance Simulation Association (IBPSA), the International Committee of Architectural
 Critics (CICA), the Oral History Society (OHS), and the Royal Institute of British Architects
 (RIBA). Prominent memberships for planning involve the Academy of Urbanism (AoU), the
 Association of European Schools of Planning (AESOP), the Global Planning Education
 Association Network (GPEAN), the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC WGIII),
 the Royal Geographical Society, the Town and Country Planning Association (RCPA), the
 Regional Science Association (RSA), and the Royal Town Planning Institute (RTPI). Tourism
 research in the Unit has membership representation through the Tourism Society, the
 Association of Tourism in Higher Education (ATHE), and the Tourism Management Institute
 (TMI).

 The Unit has received a range of honours and awards. Aldred received the prestigious ESRC
 Prize for Outstanding Impact in Public Policy in 2016, for her research on changing the policy
 mindset on cycling. Cook received the ‘Outstanding Project’ award by the EU ‘Single European
 Sky’ initiative in 2014. Delgado was the recipient of the AENA Foundation Luis Azcárraga Award
 in 2014. Deriu received a British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship Award in 2019 to pursue his
 project, ‘Architecture and Vertigo: States of Suspension in the Contemporary City’. Graham was
 the recipient of a prominent Fellowship Award from the Transport Research Society for her
 distinguished achievement in international air transport research. Best-paper and best-article
 prizes were won by Neuman (paper ‘Measuring Sustainability’ Town Planning Review, 2015),
 Woltjer (paper ‘Gentrifying the Peri-Urban’, Global Planning Education Association Network,
 2015), and Cao (paper Royal Geographical Society, Transport Geography Research, 2017).

 The Unit has received a number of research awards from the Royal Institute of British Architects
 (RIBA). Sharif and Golzari were shortlisted in 2016 for their work on Palestine regeneration.
 The RIBA Rising Star award 2017 went to Fellows for her research on improvised architectural
 responses to climate change. Saleem received the RIBA President’s Award for Research and
 the Historic England Angel Award for Excellence in Architectural Research in 2018 for his study
 on the history of the mosque in Britain. Rattenbury was shortlisted in 2019 for her book The
 Wessex Project: Thomas Hardy Architect.



                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 During the REF period, several staff members in the Unit have assumed roles as editors for
 globally influential journals, several of which have very high international esteem. Editorship
 positions include Graham (Journal of Air Transport Management, Q2), Pandya (National
 Identities, Q2), Wall (Construction History: International Journal of the Construction History
 Society, Q3), Woltjer (Cities – The International Journal of Urban Policy and Planning, Q1),
 Woodburn (International Journal of Logistics Research and Applications, Q1). Staff have also
 taken on responsibilities as guest and special issue editors for such journals as Architectural
 Histories (DOAJ), Architecture and Culture (Q4), Emotion, Space and Society (Q1), Journal of
 Architecture (Q2), Journal of Transport Geography (Q1), Landscape Research (Q2), Oral History
 Journal (WoS), Research in Transportation Economics (Q2), and the Journal of Air Transport
 Management (Q2). The Unit is represented on editorial boards for nearly 30 further international
 journals. Examples include Architectural Design (Q2), European Planning Studies (Q1), Journal
 of Architectural and Planning Research (Q2), Journal of Urban Design (Q1), Sustainability (Q2),
 Tourism Economics (Q2), Town Planning Review (Q2), Transport Reviews (Q1), Transportation
 (Q1), and Urban Design International (Q2).

 The Unit is particularly active in organising and hosting conferences, seminar and workshops. A
 large variety of events have been organised, both at the Marylebone Campus (where Unit staff
 are located) and overseas. The Unit thus sustains and supports a dynamic and vibrant research
 culture with well over 100 larger events (exceeding 30 participants) since 2014. Staff members
 with a particularly rich portfolio of collaboration through these events in the period between 2014
 and 2020 include Aldred (‘Cycling Research Conference’), Ayuso (‘Parallel Cities’ Workshops),
 Blyth (‘Creative Learning’), Bremner (‘Monsoon’ Symposia, ‘Global Mobilities Seminar Series’),
 Deriu (‘Architecture Research Forum’, ‘Vertigo in the City’, ‘Global Mobilities Seminar Series’),
 Guibert and Lau (‘London Festival of Architecture at the University of Westminster’),
 Kamvasinou and Stringer (‘Re-Imagining Rurality’), McLean (‘Human Comfort Symposium’,
 ‘Technical Studies Lectures’), Neuman (‘Sustainable Urban Design’ charrette, ‘East West Arc:
 Re-thinking Growth in the London Region Symposium’), Papa (‘Transportation Planning and
 Policy’), Smith and Pappalepore ‘(Tourism and the Night’ symposium), Rattenbury (‘Supercrit’
 series of professional and academic research events), Schiano-Phan (‘International Symposium
 on Sustainability and Energy Efficiency’, ‘Latitudes’ Global Studio Workshops), Verdini
 (Workshops ‘Re-imagine urban curricula’ and ‘Universities and Knowledge for Sustainable
 Urban Futures’), Wall (‘Constructing Post-war Britain’, ‘Direct Labour past and present’
 workshop, Symposium ‘Architecture and Building Labour’, ‘Women in Construction’ workshop),
 and Woltjer ( ‘Sustainable Urban Infrastructure and Social Inclusion’, ‘Developing Urban Space
 for Wellbeing and Sustainability’).

 Members of the Unit are widely called upon to contribute to a variety of public media and public
 events. Staff members in the Unit with a prominent public-media profile include Aldred
 (Sustainable Mobility/Active Travel Academy), Morgan (Tourism and Events Group), Pandya
 (Architectural History and Theory), Papa (Sustainable Mobility/Active Travel Academy), Saleem
 (Architectural History and Theory), Smith (Tourism and Events Group), Verdini (Sustainable
 Urbanism and Urban Studies), and Woltjer (Urban Infrastructures).

 A list of Conferences, Seminars and Workshops organised and/or hosted by the Unit is provided
 below:

 Year Hosted at University of              Hosted externally
      Westminster
 2014 • ‘Global Mobilities Seminar Series’ • ‘Transport in the Media’, Lancaster
      • Supercrit Series of Professional   • ‘Industries of Architecture: Relations, Process,
      and Academic Research                Production’, Newcastle
      • Latitudes TEDx event               • ‘Single European Sky ATM Research (SESAR)
      • Latitudes Climate Change           Innovation Days’ (annual research conference)
      Seminar                              • ‘Transport Geography Research Group’ conference
                                           session, Leeds


                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Year Hosted at University of               Hosted externally
      Westminster
 2014                                       • ATHE annual conference (UK Association of
                                            Tourism in Higher Education)
                                            • COST-action workshop ‘Engendering Cities’, Rome
                                            • International Workshop ‘The role of second tier
                                            cities in China’, Shanghai
                                            • ‘Planning in Stressful Places’, Track at AESOP
                                            Annual Congress, Utrecht
 2015 • ‘Reimagining Rurality Conference’ • Single European Sky ATM Research (SESAR)
      • ‘Vertigo in the City: Conversations Innovation Days (annual research conference)
      between the Sciences, Arts and        • Annual COST-action workshop ‘Air Transport and
      Humanities’ interdisciplinary         Regional Development’
      symposium                             • ATHE annual conference (UK Association of
      • Supercrit Series of Professional    Tourism in Higher Education)
      and Academic Research                 • COST-action workshop GenderSTE Training School
      • ‘Women in Construction: No more and International Conference, Istanbul
      softly, softly: it’s time for real    • Track ‘Social Aspects of Urban Design’, Association
      change’                               of European Planning Schools Conference, Prague
      • ‘Potential Architecture’ exhibition • Smart Cities Forum, Suzhou
      and event                             • China Workshop on ‘Sustainable Cities’, Suzhou
                                            • ‘Contemporary Governance in Indonesia’,
                                            Groningen
 2016 • ‘Parallel Cities Workshops’         • ‘Radical Histories/Histories of Radicalism’, London
      • ‘ADAPT-r’ exhibition and            • Single European Sky ATM Research (SESAR)
      symposium                             Innovation Days (annual research conference)
      • ‘A Photographer’s Sense of          Annual COST-action workshop ‘Air Transport and
      Space: Looking at the Work of         Regional Development’
      Gabriele Basilico’ interdisciplinary • Mobility Track, ‘Transportation planning and Policy’,
      seminar                               Annual Congress of the Association of European
      • ‘Tensegrity Structures’ Workshop Schools of Planning (AESOP)
      • Supercrit Series of Professional    • ATHE annual conference (UK Association of
      and Academic Research                 Tourism in Higher Education)
      • ‘Architecture and Building Labour: • COST-action 5th Engendering International
      Afterword or Prologue?’               Conference, Engendering Habitat III, Madrid
      • ‘Sustainable urban infrastructure • ‘Jaunti Village Workshop’ with Delhi Urban Arts
      and social inclusion –improving       Commission, Delhi
      choice and wellbeing in UK and        • International Seminar ‘Small Settlements and the
      Chinese cities’                       Cultural Dimension of Urbanisation’, Paris
      • ‘Fab Fest’ festival
 2017 • ‘Monsoon [+ other] Airs             • Single European Sky ATM Research (SESAR)
      Symposium’                            Innovation Days (annual research conference)
      • ‘Architecture Research Forum’       Annual COST-action workshop ‘Air Transport and
      Seminar Series                        Regional Development’
      • ‘CITYLAB London’ MAMCA              • ‘Collaborative and Interdisciplinary International
      Workshop                              Design: Charrette on Sustainable Urban design
      • ‘Human Comfort: symposium on practices’, Florence
      design and health’                    • ‘Planning for Just Cities’, Cardiff
      • ‘Tourism and the Night’             • Mobility Track, ‘Transportation planning and Policy’,
      symposium                             Annual Congress of the Association of European
      • Supercrit Series of Professional    Schools of Planning (AESOP)
      and Academic Research                 • ATHE annual conference (UK Association of
      • ‘Latitudes Global Studio Workshop Tourism in Higher Education)
      London’                               • Latitudes Global Studio Workshop, Sao Paulo
      • ‘National Energy Programme-II’
      Symposium


                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Year Hosted at University of              Hosted externally
      Westminster
 2017 • COST Action Workshop
      ‘Universities and knowledge for
      sustainable urban futures’
      • ‘Direct Labour past and present’
      • ‘Developing Urban Space for
      Wellbeing and Sustainability’

 2018 • ‘Human Comfort Symposium’         • ‘The County of London Plan’, London
      • ‘Creative Space for Creative      • ‘Design Agency within Earth Systems’, London
      Learning’                           • ‘China’s Urban Transformation’, Peking
      • ‘Monsoon [+ other] Waters         • ‘The Miner's House, Architecture of Migration
      Symposium’                          Conference’, Milan
      • ‘Architecture Research Forum’     • Single European Sky ATM Research (SESAR)
      Seminar Series                      Innovation Days (annual research conference)
      • ‘Human Comfort II: symposium on • Annual COST-action workshop ‘Air Transport and
      design and health’                  Regional Development’
      • ‘East West Arc: Re-thinking       • ATHE annual conference (UK Association of
      Growth in the London Region’        Tourism in Higher Education)
      Symposium                           • Mobility Track, ‘Transportation planning and Policy’,
      • ‘Green and Just Transition’       Annual Congress of the Association of European
      Symposium                           Schools of Planning (AESOP)
      • Supercrit Series of Professional  • ATHE annual conference (UK Association of
      and Academic Research               Tourism in Higher Education)
      • ‘Fab Fest’ festival               • Latitudes Global Design Studio Summit,
                                          Ahmedabad
                                          • COST Action Workshop, ‘Re-imagine urban
                                          curricula’, Ljubljana
                                          • ‘Constructing Post-war Britain’, London
                                          • ‘Sustainable Regional and Urban
                                          Development’, Bandung
 2019 • ‘Monsoon    [+ other] Airs        • ‘Visual methods in Cycling research’, México
      Symposium’                          • ‘Financialisaton of Rental Housing in China‘,
      • ‘City Plus’ Annual Conference     Shanghai
      • ‘Architecture Research Forum’     • ‘The Impacts of Social Equity and Transport
      Seminar Series                      Accessibility on a Just City’, Shanghai
      • ‘Blurring the boundaries between • ‘African Fabbers House, digital manufacturing for
      inhabiting, designing, and making’, sustainable living’, Barcelona
      London Festival of Architecture     • ‘African Fabbers Cities: self-organisation and self-
      • Supercrit Series of Professional  production in the African urban context’, London
      and Academic Research               • ‘Single European Sky ATM Research’ (SESAR)
      • ‘Learning Through Practice’,      Innovation Days (annual research conference)
      Association of Architectural        • Annual COST-action workshop ‘Air Transport and
      Educators (AAE)                     Regional Development’
      • Annual Robin Evans lecture        • ‘The Photo-book and the City’, session at 9th AISU
                                          Congress, Bologna
                                          • ATHE annual conference (UK Association of
                                          Tourism in Higher Education)
                                          • International Symposium on Sustainability and
                                          Energy Efficiency, Seville
                                          • Villages workshop, as part of ‘Adapting Villages’
                                          conference, Hong Kong
                                          • 9th International Symposium on Travel Demand
                                          Management, Edinburgh



                                                                                          Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Year Hosted at University of              Hosted externally
      Westminster
 2020 • ‘Architecture Research Forum’  • ‘Modern Animism,’ Garden Museum, London
      Seminar Series                   • Mobility Track, ‘Transportation planning and
      • Supercrit Series of Professional
                                       Policy’,
      and Academic Research            Annual Congress of the Association of European
      • Annual Robin Evans lecture     Schools of Planning (AESOP)
      • Technical Studies Lecture Series
                                       • Seminar ‘Travelling Companions; an exhibition of
      • ‘Falling Away’ exhibition and  the work of artists Judy Goldhill and Fay Ballard’,
      symposium                        Cambridge
                                       • Workshop ‘Nonanthropogenic Rafts for Beginners’,
                                       Antwerp
 Table 2. Conference/Seminar/Workshops (Co-)organising and Hosting - UoA13 University of
 Westminster




                                                                                     Page 20
