Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Open University
 Unit of Assessment:
 C22 - Anthropology and Development Studies
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context and vision
 International Development at the Open University (ID@OU) researches development, in both the
 Global South and the Global North. It does so by drawing on expertise from a wide range of
 disciplines to engage with development issues linked to global processes of social, economic,
 political and technological change. ID@OU has made research and impact contributions in three
 core areas: science technology and innovation; Asian drivers in African development; and
 equity, health and human wellbeing. Our approach emphasises theoretical and empirical
 research as a co-productive and interdisciplinary endeavour that engages directly with research
 beneficiaries and users at community, national, international and global levels. This approach
 has been supported by a major 5-year OU investment in the Strategic Area of International
 Development and Inclusive Innovation (SRA IDII). ID@OU is headquartered in Development
 Policy and Practice (DPP) and encompasses 27 research active staff from Economics,
 Engineering and Innovation, the Innogen Institute and the cross-faculty Innovation, Knowledge
 and Development Centre (IKD).

 Knowledge exchange (KE) is fundamental to the OU’s central mission to be ‘open to people,
 places, methods and ideas.’ This mission is operationalised through ID@OU’s systematic
 approach to delivering research impact. We design research in collaboration with stakeholders,
 working from their needs to develop research outputs with impact (e.g., workshops; internships;
 press and policymaker briefings; advisory group meetings; and long-term working relationships
 with major partners), and we map categories of stakeholders against expected outputs and
 opportunities for benefit. Fundamental is a commitment to capacity building, which is done
 through the development of co-productive processes, data production and management, and the
 evaluation of impact. Our impact rests on five strategic approaches: public engagement; in-
 country and regional partnerships; work with international policymakers and networks; firms and
 business associations; practitioners and professional services.

 1.2 Research strategy
 Research in international development during the current assessment period has been based on
 the strategic aims for research and impact outlined in REF2014 to:
     • establish the Innogen Institute as the institutional base for our work in science,
         technology, innovation and development and collaborate with other groups in the UK
         and globally to develop new research strengths in sustainable innovation systems and
         methods, as well as deepen evolutionary approaches with a focus on global health,
         governance and industrial innovation;
     • extend our Asian drivers in African development research trajectory to focus on
         inclusive innovation and understand the nature of Chinese financed and built
         infrastructure, moving beyond China’s impact on Africa to consider its effects in Europe;
     • consolidate our work on equity, health and human wellbeing to: utilise OU innovation
         and health system expertise to address the challenges of assessing the extent to which
         innovation systems generate inequitable development; analyse the role of public action in
         health system restructuring; generate synergies for inclusive development by bridging the
         gap between industrial and social policies; and generate new indicators and evidence of
         human wellbeing by building on our capabilities measurement research.

 REF 2014 recognised ID@OU’s ‘…overall quality of the outputs, and the strength of many of the
 findings reported, and it judged their significance to lie in their policy orientation and value to
 policy users.’ The three existing research areas have now deepened and expanded to contribute
 to a fourth interlocking research area of theory-building and the development of new
 methodologies. Since REF 2014, we have achieved our research and impact objectives in the


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 core areas and developed new themes that are extending our profile of research interests and
 evolving our capacities.

 Science, technology, innovation and development
 The significance of our research in science, technology, innovation and development has been
 the setting of an ambitious policy and practice agenda for establishing inclusive innovation
 systems for development in the Global North and Global South. We are expanding and shaping
 research and policy agendas nationally, internationally and globally through collaborations and
 partnerships that integrate knowledge and expertise between the Global North and South
 (Mackintosh, Mohan, Srinivas, Cross, Berardi). ID@OU continues to make the case for the
 crucial role of innovation systems research in international development, while at the same time
 championing inclusive innovation and development within academic and policy communities and
 pioneering analysis of science and technology in development (Wield, Robbins, Kale). We
 have produced new knowledge showing that innovation and social justice can go hand in hand.
 The more just and inclusive the forms of innovation, the more positive and legitimate the
 development outcomes (Papaioannou, Levidow). We have theorised principles of access and
 openness in new technologies from the bottom up, involving scientists, innovators, policymakers,
 regulators, citizens and advocacy groups.

 The Innogen Institute, a collaboration with the University of Edinburgh (UoE), encompasses key
 academics (Papaioannou, Kale, Wield, Robbins, Parris) who bring together science and
 technology studies and social sciences disciplines. These academics continue to drive research
 on systemic and institutional aspects of innovation, governance and regulation in the life
 sciences. Comparative work on biopharmaceutical industry associations in India and South
 Africa demonstrates the important role of these intermediaries in innovation systems and their
 historical evolution from lobbying organisations into partnering organisations that negotiate with
 governments and other public actors to create new technological and developmental trajectories
 (Papaioannou, Kale). Our research on medical devices and governance of new medical
 technologies evidences the importance of regulation in Argentina and India (Kale) for enabling
 innovation in developmental contexts. We have also conceptualised multiple knowledge
 interactions in the life sciences (Wield) and identified patterns of learning which lead to
 technological upgrading and growth of the pharmaceutical industry in the Global North and
 Global South (Parris). Our systemic approach to adaptive governance has also delivered a
 critical framework of scenario praxis and viability of social-ecological systems (Ison, Berardi,
 Collins, Lane, Reynolds).

 This research, together with our lead role in inclusive innovation and development
 (Papaioannou, Levidow), has brought major insights into emerging models of grassroots and
 frugal innovation. We are also one of the first groups nationally to research the relationship
 between engineering and development (Robbins). Our research on agriculture and agro-
 ecological practices in post-communist economies and in Brazil (Lombardozzi, Levidow), as
 well as our analyses of transatlantic and transpacific agri-food trade (Mitchell, Newman) reveal
 diverse societal agendas underlying innovation trajectories and regulatory regimes in both the
 Global South and Global North.

 Also falling under the governance umbrella, is research that focuses on global security and local
 civil society. Research topics within this area range from road safety in Africa (Lamont) to the
 role of global NGOs in advocacy and activism for bridging indigenous and scientific knowledge in
 South America (Berardi), and the analysis of ethical approaches to using space technologies for
 development (Marino). Our research has also focused on community policing in Tanzania and
 local politics, as well as on transitional justice in conflict regions such as Burundi and Rwanda.
 Findings not only demonstrate the cost of community policing, offering alternative models of
 security provision (Cross), but also the power of narratives in transitional justice reports by
 international organisations (Jamar).




                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Asian drivers in Africa development
 Our research in this area focuses on understanding China’s global development strategy beyond
 Sub-Saharan Africa and identifying the implications for Europe. In REF 2014, the OU declared
 an intention to extend research on the impact of Rising Powers, such as China on Sub-Saharan
 Africa and beyond (Mohan, Lampert, Chiyemura). This work, enabled by the OU’s £2.5M
 investment in SRA IDII, moved into a dynamic research phase that combines theory and
 concepts from geography and political economy to analyse Chinese expatriate management and
 knowledge exchange, and China’s status as a new oil producer in the politics of countries such
 as Ghana (Shipman). In addition, a new €2.5M ERC Advanced grant (2020-25) investment
 focuses on the rise of China and its effects in Europe (Mohan). Our work has also examined the
 impact on East-South development by Chinese migrants in Africa (Lampert, Mohan). The
 theme of migration is emerging from our notion of global development and investigates the
 impact of migration and diaspora on the economy and society of developing and developed
 countries, as well as on state and citizenship (Kale and Srinivas).

 Equity, health and human wellbeing
 Our research in this area has provided new theoretical and empirical insights into how human
 wellbeing can be improved through strengthening health systems in the Global North and Global
 South and meeting the demands of equity and social justice. In REF 2014, we submitted a body
 of work based on equity-related empirical investigation and conceptual analysis of low-income
 country (LIC) medicines markets, pharmaceuticals production, access to medicines and equity-
 related implications of innovation in low-income health systems. In addition, we continued to
 operationalise Amartya Sen’s theory of capabilities for the measurement of human wellbeing,
 creating methods for analysis of low- and middle-income (LMIC) country contexts. Our REF
 2014 field-based research in health systems and industrial policy has been developed
 strategically into new areas, such as local production of medicines and state procurement in
 Africa and Asia, including with the African Vaccine Manufacturing Initiative, and the importance
 of public action for this integration (Mackintosh, Srinivas, Kale). Novel research on
 empowerment and capabilities measurement (Anand, Santos) is contributing to development
 goals relating to gender and capability measurement methods. Responding to REF 2014 Sub-
 panel feedback for more theory building, work on economic theory (Trigg, Srinivas) and political
 theory (Papaioannou), with a focus on inclusive innovation and development, provide relevant
 conceptual frameworks of equity, health and wellbeing. We advanced the field by investigating
 and clarifying narratives of inclusion and assumptions of social justice in innovation systems of
 the Global North and South (Levidow, Papaioannou).

 Theoretical and methodological contributions to global development
 This final interlocking thematic grouping is rooted in our commitment to interdisciplinary research
 and theory building for understanding normative aspects of technological, economic and political
 change. Our triple task and narrative research methodology (Ison, Bell) offers an innovative,
 holistic approach to better understand socio-ecological systems and improved, participatory
 design of local adaptation policies. Development and application of a system viability framework
 in indigenous communities in South America (Berardi) allowed participants to characterise a
 range of strategies in response to environmental challenges for maintaining the long-term
 survival of their particular system of interest. Since 2014, our commitment to the Sustainable
 Development Goals (SDGs) has informed our normative theories of social justice and
 capabilities for human development, creating ground-breaking research not only on the
 measurement of human capabilities, but also on evaluation of inclusive systems of innovation
 (Anand, Papaioannou, Levidow).

 Future strategic aims
 Our future strategic aims for research and impact are to further develop our world-leading
 research agenda that engages numerous organisations across the globe and has now both
 theory and policy practice orientation. Our long-term objectives are to:
    • shape theoretical and empirical research agendas that widen the global knowledge base
        in Development Studies;


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   exploit the OU’s unique platform and partnership with the BBC for dissemination and
        communication;
    •   increase, develop and deepen global networks in our interdisciplinary research areas;
    •   ensure professional development and mentoring of early and mid-career staff to increase
        the vitality and sustainability of global development research in the OU and worldwide.

 These objectives drive the quality of our research, which depends crucially on our integration of
 knowledge and expertise on, with and from the Global South and Global North. We continue to
 work across disciplines and engage with local, national and global public, private and third sector
 research partners. This global co-production of knowledge broadens and deepens ID@OU
 evidence-based policy and practice contributions.

 Our future plans are underpinned by recent grant awards. Grants from the ESRC, ERC and
 other funders totalling £3.5M are already in place for supporting post-REF 2021 research,
 including in: community owned renewable energy systems; greening the belt and road initiative;
 redefining the loci of global development by focusing on China as a development actor in the
 heart of Europe; and fairness and justice in space research and innovation. We shall continue
 our efforts to diversify funding, engage every researcher as PI/Co-I and increase our doctoral
 mix. Since we emphasise both excellent research and impact, we will build on our past success
 in working with a range of global policy stakeholders from the public, private and civil society
 sectors in both Global North and Global South. Within the OU, ID@OU will continue to integrate
 activities, including BBC programming on public understanding of innovation and development.
 We will strengthen further the production of theoretically embedded, empirically grounded and
 policy relevant knowledge. We will further integrate PhD students into our research programmes
 and increase and strengthen our research collaborations with private sector and government
 organisations.

 Our future strategic plans are in line with the interdisciplinary institutional structure of the unit.
 DPP remains the OU’s hub for research in international development, but the university’s
 research strengths and research impact in international development reach into every faculty
 and also into the OU’s International Development Office (IDO). The latter’s role has been
 crucial for strengthening the relationship between research producers and research users. In
 2016, DPP moved into the new Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences (FASS), established in
 August 2016 by the merger of the former Faculty of Arts and Faculty of Social Sciences. We are
 in a new School of Social Sciences and Global Studies. This has enabled further interdisciplinary
 interaction within the social sciences (including economics, social policy and politics), new
 research collaborations, grants, publications and joint PhD supervision. In addition, the
 Directorship of the OU/UoE Innogen Institute has moved from the University of Edinburgh to
 the OU in DPP. This has strengthened our institutional leadership of research in the impact of
 new life sciences and other emerging technologies on international development. The Innogen
 Institute will continue to provide the institutional base for our work in science, technology,
 innovation and development and will collaborate with other groups in the UK and globally.

 1.3 Engagement and impact

 Approach to impact
 Commitment to impact in international development is a core component of the OU’s social
 justice mission. The IES (sections 2.2 and 2.3) summarises the OU’s global reach. Our leading-
 edge technologies are used around the world to break down geographical and social barriers to
 knowledge, research and development. Our impact in development studies has immense public
 reach through award-winning research-based media dissemination. Our many partnerships with
 policymakers mean that our shaping of debates and policy often unfolds as an iterative process,
 supported by our extensive network of graduates. We have had institutional support in these
 endeavours from the IDO, SRA IDII, IKD, faculties and the Innogen Institute’s Communications
 and Policy Officer, who all work with ID@OU to develop and effect our particular approach to
 impact. We also benefit from the long-standing partnership with the BBC, leading a range of
 OU/BBC programmes on international development (IES section 2.2).

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our approach to impact has aimed to achieve reach with significance in five distinct ways. We
 describe each below, with examples and signposting to case studies, in the following section:

 (1) Direct engagement with local communities and publics. Berardi has established a social
 enterprise with local communities in South America. Yanacopulos and Mohan have undertaken
 a set of high-profile projects disseminating ID@OU research findings via the public
 understanding of development through our partnership with the BBC’s Why Slavery?
 documentary series in 2018. This was aired to 1.6 million viewers across the UK and nominated
 for an International Documentary Award. In addition, the broadcast/programme page on
 OpenLearn received 3,801 visits from both the Global North and the Global South, raising
 awareness about modern forms of slavery. Shipman and Parris have disseminated their
 research through the BBC’s What Britain Buys and Sells in a Day series in 2019. This was
 viewed by 6.29 million people across the UK and received 5,388 visits on OpenLearn. Shipman
 has also contributed to public understanding of economics and development through BBC Radio
 4’s Economics with Subtitles 2018 podcast that was streamed to 7.29 million listeners.

 (2) Long term in-country and regional partnerships with researchers and policymakers. Countries
 where ID@OU researchers have long-term research partnerships include Guyana, South Africa,
 Tanzania, Kenya, Ghana and India. Since 2008, these partnerships with strongly policy-linked
 research peers have continued to generate in-country working relationships with national
 policymakers that have demonstrably influenced national and regional policies. For example,
 Berardi’s long-term research partnership with indigenous communities in Guyana allowed
 project participants to use a novel System Viability Framework to characterise and promote the
 most effective strategies for long-term survival. This has, in turn, increased learning and capacity
 for protecting local ecosystems. Mackintosh’s long-term research programme with African and
 Asian colleagues on the operation of local health systems and medicines markets and local
 industrial production challenges, with positive effects on access to essential medicines, has had
 international impact across Africa, Asia and Europe. This impact has been amplified through the
 involvement of organisations such as UNIDO, WHO and the African Union Commission in
 networks for promoting new industrial and health strategies. Former PhD student Wafula, now
 Senior Lecturer in Healthcare Management in Nairobi, works with Mackintosh to set up an
 information network to support activism and policy for non-communicable diseases. Emeritus
 Prof Clark’s role as Lead Consultant to the UN-Habitat on Water and Sanitation Education
 Policy and as a Member of the Governing Council of the African Centre for Technology Studies
 (ACTS) builds on many years’ work in Africa running a university and advising the New
 Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). Emeritus Prof Kaplinsky’s work on the green
 economy and urban regeneration in the UK and Greece draws on his many years research in
 innovation and development.

 (3) Close working with international policymakers and international policy-linked networks. The
 Innogen Institute’s work (Kale, Wield, Papaioannou, Robbins) has focused on how science
 and technology regulation and governance can facilitate advances in the pharmaceutical and
 other life science industries, which impacted national and international policy (UK Government,
 Scottish Government, NESTA-UK, BSI), including with a set of advisory roles. Our capabilities
 work (Anand) has been central to a shift within international policies towards measurement of
 wellbeing and progress through the empirical use of Sen’s capabilities concept; this occurred
 through collaboration with the OECD and the World Bank and dissemination through its Better
 Life Index and other networks, supported by guidance from OU impact specialists and strategic
 investment from the OU Research Office. Papaioannou, as a member of the Expert Peer
 Review Group on Evaluation for the UK Government Department of Business, Energy and
 Industrial Strategy, advises on evaluative frameworks for inclusive innovation. Ison, as Director
 of the Systemic Change Lab of the European School of Governance, plays an influential role in
 setting governance agendas for Europe. This is now crystallised in his recently published
 monograph on governance in the climate emergency.



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (4) Direct impact on strategy at firm and business association level. ID@OU researchers
 uniquely work directly with private sector actors and are able to trace direct impacts.
 Papaioannou and Kale’s work with the biopharmaceutical industry associations in South Africa
 and India has had a demonstrable impact in improving understanding of business-state
 relations. Mackintosh’s research on the health sector has also directly influenced industrial
 policies on medicine production in Africa. Berardi and colleagues have been successful in
 launching spin-off social enterprises that have directly emerged from their research, thus
 creating employment in the UK and internationally, while further directly implementing their
 research outcomes.

 (5) Impact on practitioners and professional services. ID@OU’s long-standing partnership with
 the Kulika Charitable Trust in Uganda, where OU MSc graduates use ID@OU research in their
 work in a range of state and nonstate development organisations, has influenced local and
 national policies in Uganda. Clark and Hanlin’s research-based workshops, in partnership with
 ACTS, led the Kenyan government to ask them to advise on the ‘rebranding’ of innovation within
 the Government’s science, technology and innovation policy. Kaplinsky’s research on how to
 respond to the challenges of Asian suppliers has shaped South African consultant advice to its
 government on industrial policy, as well as to several hundred firms in the auto components and
 apparel sectors looking at supply chains.

 Impact plans
 We intend to build impact even more fully by doing the following:

 1) Continuing to embed our 5-pronged approach to impact through engagement with the OU’s
 RCUK Public Engagement in Research Catalyst project to become an ‘Open Research
 University’. This includes continued active involvement in the public understanding of
 international development through dissemination of our research via BBC programming.

 2) As part of the new Innogen Institute strategy, targeting and integrating three groups who are
 instrumental to our co-productive partner-based approach to research and impact: innovators
 (scientists, medics, farmers, firms); government and regulators (multilaterals, OECD, EU); and
 public advocacy groups (patient advocacy groups, NGOs). This includes developing a series of
 high-level policy workshops for civil servants, ministers, executives, regulators and innovators.
 These will be supported by continued work with key partners, such as the Globelics Academy.

 3) Creating a strategic media plan to boost impact, with support from the IDO, the Innogen
 Institute’s Communications and Policy Officer and Chris Warkup, ex-CEO of the UKRI
 Knowledge Transfer Network, recently appointed as a Visiting Professor. Media initiatives will
 include the development of a ‘media centre’ across our web platforms, to provide: news; videos;
 podcasts; blogs; expert contacts; and a strengthened social media presence through Twitter,
 Facebook, LinkedIn, and YouTube.

 4) Working in concert with the IDO to promote and strengthen local partnerships in Global North
 and South to generate further impact and to expand the international development calendar of
 events, such as seminar series, symposia, conferences, newsletters and high-profile speaking
 events. In progressing this strategy, we will be further embedding impact training into our
 doctoral research training programmes through lectures, workshops and dissemination of best
 practice.

 Relationship to case studies
 Our case study evidence exemplifies one or more of our five approaches to impact.
 The local manufacturing for inclusive health care in Africa case study (approaches 2-5)
 evidences direct impact on industrial policy in Tanzania. It cites project policy briefs in the
 National Five-Year Development Plan, “Nurturing Industrialisation for Economic Transformation
 and Human Development” (2016), and briefings by OU researchers for the Tanzanian national
 policy institution COSTECH’s task force on implementation and participation in African private
 sector pharmaceutical meetings. The second is the area of community owned solutions in

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 South America, where our research had impact on capacity building, policy change and the
 establishment of inclusive social enterprises in local communities (approaches 1,2 and 4). More
 specifically, it directly resulted in 30 Indigenous community members using participatory visual
 methods to identify, record, share and implement community owned solutions. The capacity
 building was also delivered to institutional staff, including WWF-Guyana and Iwokrama,
 changing the way these organisations work through appreciating community owned solutions.
 The third is the area of enhancing female empowerment and measuring capabilities in low-
 and high-income countries (approaches 2, 3 and 5). Our research with women primary school
 teachers has shaped the design of new pathways into teaching for women in low-income
 contexts. Specifically, this work developed the skills, competencies and agency of female
 teacher trainees (Malawi and Sierra Leone) and has improved ‘gender sensitive’ school
 practices leading to increased attendance and progression rates for girls in schools in which the
 trainee teachers are working. Our research also led to the evaluation of an Indian self-help
 programme for over 1.5 million women leading to more effective capability enhancement
 programmes. The development of capability indicators for evaluating human development
 programmes has led to the UNDP, World Bank, and European Commission promoting policies
 with an explicit emphasis on enhancing female capabilities.

 Research integrity
 ID@OU supports a culture of research integrity in accordance with the framework described in
 the IES. In addition to a research integrity and ethics briefing that all researchers receive at
 induction, the OU provides training programmes on good research practice. Research
 supervisors guide Postgraduate Research Students (PGRS) in research integrity and ethics in
 accordance with the Code of Practice for Research Students and Supervisors. The OU has a
 Human Research Ethics Committee (HREC) that provides, advises on and regulates protocol
 development and risk assessment for projects. OU academics have internationally recognised
 expertise in the field of research ethics and have led development of key principles that now
 form the basis for the UKRIO/ARMA Research Ethics Support and Review framework. ID@OU
 has implemented a range of innovative ethics practices, including innovative ‘unexpected
 findings’ guidelines. Its ethics statements are used as good practice examples on the ESRC web
 site. Mohan has been involved in an Evidence and Collaboration for Inclusive Development
 project to decolonise ethics practices. Berardi provides expert input, advice and validation of the
 community engagement process within the £142M FCDO UK Aid Connect programme.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 ID@OU has an ambitious, well-established and long-term strategy for supporting the careers of
 research active staff. Since REF 2014, the strategy has developed strongly through new and
 continuing interdisciplinary structures, which has enabled the increase of research leadership for
 early and mid-career staff, improved the conditions for generational renewal and protected the
 OU’s generous study leave allowing staff with heavy teaching commitments to engage in high
 quality research production. The ID@OU strategy is in line with the ‘OU Code of Practice for
 Research’, which outlines detailed structures and activities to maintain research quality.

 ID@OU continues to enhance staff capacity at all levels. At senior level: Papaioannou has been
 promoted to a chair; Newman has been appointed to Professor; Srinivas has joined as a
 Professorial Fellow; Kale, Berardi and Parris were promoted to Senior Lectureships; Marino
 was appointed to Senior Research Fellow and Deane to Senior Lecturer (after census date);
 Cross and Lampert made permanent Lecturers. At entry level, Lombardozzi, Mitchell, Jamar,
 Chiyemura, Lamont and (after census date) Laskarides have been appointed to Lectureships.
 All lecturers are highly research active and have increased our research capacity. In all
 appointments, equality procedures were applied in recruitment and selection. More detail about
 these procedures can be found in sub-section C. Appointments and promotions strengthen the
 established group of ID@OU and support our key research areas, with some staff contributing to
 more than one: Lombardozzi and Papaioannou in equity, health and capabilities; Lampert and


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Kale in migration; Ison, Collins and Reynolds in systems; and Kale, Newman, Mitchell and
 Papaioannou in innovation for low income populations.

 We have continued to strengthen our research capacity, extend our networks and enhance our
 research impact. Although, since REF 2014, several staff (Mugwagwa, Johnson, Chataway,
 Kaplinsky, Banda, Hanlin, Ugochukwu, Yanacopulos, Bell) have moved to other posts or
 retired, these staff continue formally as Visiting and Emeritus faculty. They collaborate closely in
 research areas, such as inclusive innovation, governance, health systems and civil society, and
 extend our networks into organisations, such as the Department of Science, Technology,
 Engineering and Public Policy (STEaPP) at University College London (UCL).

 The OU provides a supportive environment for enhancing staff capability. All staff are provided
 with an academic mentor on appointment, and a staff member who supports them through their
 probationary period. In the annual appraisal process, colleagues are encouraged to review and
 plan their longer-term goals and priorities, including a research and scholarship plan. There is
 generous allocation of one research day per week, plus two months annual sabbatical leave on
 full salary. All junior staff act as co-supervisors in supervision teams, supported by an OU-wide
 training scheme that prepares them to become lead supervisors. They are strongly encouraged
 and mentored to become co-applicants on bids and to bid for their own funding. For example,
 Lampert, Cross and Kale became co-applicants on successful bids on Asian drivers in African
 development and on equity, health and human wellbeing before they started bidding for their
 own external funding. They also contributed major outputs to high quality academic journals and
 edited volumes, including Making Medicines in Africa (2016).

 In addition, all staff are allocated time in their workloads for extramural activities to stimulate and
 support their KE within public and private sector bodies, including industry and government.
 Some staff (Papaioannou, Mackintosh) have advisory roles in government and NGOs, and
 others (Johnson, Mohan) are involved in governing structures of organisations and research
 collaborations. ID@OU recognises and rewards staff for their research and KE activities by
 advising FASS on their promotion and remuneration.

 There is a well-developed OU training programme for research bids, and those seeking more
 than £30k go through a rigorous internal review process. The SRA IDII functions as a ‘one-stop
 shop’ for bidding support across the faculties of FASS, STEM and Business and Law (FBL). It
 also provides seedcorn funding for researchers who are interested in conducting pilot projects to
 support the development of new proposals for external funding. To foster continuity between
 projects, faculties also provide bridge funding, which enables PIs to retain talented named
 researchers before the start of new funded projects. Leaders of research projects are also able
 to adjust their teaching loads.

 Our future strategy on staffing is to continue: (a) support for early and mid-career staff to lead
 major research projects as PI/Co-I; (b) to enable staff to work across disciplinary boundaries and
 faculties supported by our strategic research areas, interdisciplinary centres and institutes; and
 (c) use the OU’s generous study leave allocation procedures to benefit research production of
 the highest quality.

 2.2 PGRS
 Doctoral candidates in ID@OU remain ‘the lifeblood of new ideas’ (REF 2014, RA5a). They are
 part of the University’s Graduate School that was launched in October 2016 to provide support
 and online training via the Graduate School Network, a bespoke Virtual Learning Environment
 (VLE). ID@OU led and supported early development of this VLE, as a dedicated web portal built
 to the OU’s world leading standards, providing access to a range of academic, training and
 professional development resources, and ensuring parity of experience for all OU research
 students regardless of physical location. This training includes core research methods and skills
 benchmarked against Research Council expectations for PGRS training.



                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In ID@OU we have actively sought to sustain our numbers of PGRS, increase quality, secure
 more internal and external funding and spread the practice of cross-faculty supervision. We have
 ESRC studentships in our Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) with the Universities of Oxford
 and Brunel in our dedicated International Development pathway. The SRA IDII also provides
 studentships in the broad area of inclusive innovation and international development. GCRF-
 gained QR funding provides three full time studentships linked to major GCRF research grants.
 Other studentships are supported through the IDO, alumni endowments, and collaboration
 between the OU and global not-for-profit organisations (e.g., Offshore Petroleum Industry
 Training Organization (OPITO), Beevers Fund, Wellcome Trust/KEMRI), developing country
 agencies (e.g., Oppenheimer Memorial Trust, ACTS) and developing country universities (e.g.,
 Cape Town and Ghana).

 The OU co-funds competitive studentships and fee waivers that enable us to recruit gifted
 students from developing countries. The diverse background of our students, both
 geographically and in terms of career stage, makes for a highly supported group. Our students
 work in teams and have their own peer-training group and student-led seminars, which promote
 co-learning, build team-working skills and incentivises early submission. Diverse collaborations
 and funding sources result in a thriving and diverse community. Following COVID-19, ID@OU
 has established a doctoral student-run online PhD Hub for student presentations and support.
 For example, students can find information about live, online and interactive events and other
 opportunities open to them.

 Our long-term practice is to approach students as researchers first and foremost and integrate
 them into our research strategy, teams and activities. This is the main reason for maintaining our
 high four-year completion rates (92%) and high student research publications and output rates
 (see below).

 Students from all faculties (in 7 UOAs) are associated with ID@OU and are encouraged to
 connect across disciplines within the university and with other universities, in the UK and
 globally. To this end, interfaculty structures such as the SRA IDII play a crucial role through the
 organisation of research away days aimed at promoting such connections. Students appreciate
 that they are treated as staff members. Whilst our REF 4a data attributes completions to the
 UOA of the lead supervisor, ID@OU jointly supervises additional students across a range of
 intersecting fields.

 There is a formal scheme for all students to build employability and gain structured and
 mentored teaching experience. All doctoral students are provided with: at least two supervisors;
 full office and administrative support; encouragement and financial support to present at
 conferences; support for fieldwork; and workshop presentation experience. Supervision
 practices are guided and informed by the University’s Code of Practice for Supervisors and
 Research Students. Surveys of our 2013-2020 doctoral cohorts include comments such as: ‘I
 was treated like a staff member in terms of being included in academic life. In my previous
 institution, PhD students were very separate from staff. At the OU, I felt at the centre in terms of
 things like having my desk/office in the same space as the staff members and having an
 expense allowance for going to conferences just like staff members.’ Another said: ‘I felt I was
 treated as a peer by other academics, rather than as a student which is particularly special.’ A
 third commented: ‘There are no boundaries. I also appreciated the fact that there was a large
 cohort of doctoral students.’

 ID@OU researchers have supervised a total of 30 completions (including 9 as co-supervisors)
 during the period and we currently supervise 21 doctoral students. On a like for like basis our
 PhD awards are the same as REF 2014. Over 60% of doctoral students over this period have
 been from overseas, 55% from the Global South, and of these, 100% are from LICs, most (71%)
 with OU scholarship support. We are proud of the high proportion of African students and of their
 extraordinary professional successes. Completed doctoral students registered during 2013-20
 have: published 3 books, 21 peer reviewed articles and 8 book chapters from their doctoral
 research; gained 10 competitive postdoctoral fellowships; obtained 10 research grants (in

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 addition to the above fellowships); and presented more than 50 conference papers, of which 2
 obtained prizes. Dr Alex Bud obtained the African Studies Association biennial second prize for
 his research on the Nollywood industrial complex. Kirsteen Merrilees won the George Stevenson
 Medal of the Institute of Civil Engineers for her paper on engineering responses to natural
 disasters in Nepal.

 The employment rate of these graduates is 100%, and the professional roles played by our
 doctoral researchers on graduation include (for those registered during 2013-20) a wide range of
 academic posts (11 postdoc fellowships, 5 lectureships, 2 senior lectureships), and major policy
 and management posts around the world (Angola, Kenya, Vanuatu, China, South Africa,
 Sweden). Some early postdoc alumni already have impressive achievements, such as in the
 UK’s response to the Rohingya crisis, in the global diamond industry and World Bank and UNDP
 anti-corruption efforts. They were awarded 20 small grants during their study, and held 11
 internships (including with Makerere University, World Bank, Peace Direct, The Globe Theatre in
 China, De Beers and the African Union NEPAD).

 ID@OU has particularly focused on the early and mid-career development potential of doctoral
 students, with significant research and leadership skills training (since 2000). Alumni results are
 impressive. This mix of doctoral students is highly balanced between national and global (about
 one quarter each of UK, EU/US, Africa and other LMICs), and it is 50% ‘BAME’ and 65% female.
 A QMU based alumnus recently wrote: ‘The OU was, and remains, a great anchor institution
 welcoming and nurturing international students.’ The doctoral cohorts surveyed for REF 2014
 are now in mid-career and senior career positions, mostly at senior lecturer/associate professor
 level in universities (Imperial, Nairobi, QMU, Lincoln, Edinburgh, IDS, UCL) and at director level
 in NGOs, research institutes and government. Examples are: Chief Curator, National Museum of
 World Culture, NL; Director, ASEAN Institute, Jakarta; Co-Director, Oxfam; Secretary-General,
 Africalics; Chief Research Specialist, HSRC, Pretoria; Director, San Francisco Opera; Chief
 Child Rights, UNICEF.

 Our future strategy on research students is to: a) consolidate training and virtual training
 systems for full and part time doctoral students; b) consolidate student numbers; and c) further
 extend our highly successful cohort-based approach to supervision.

 2.3 Equality and diversity
 Equality and diversity are at the core of the OU mission. The IES, section 3, details university
 level systems and activities. ID@OU encourages remote working in line with the University’s
 measures for efficiency and promoting well-being. This has been of great benefit to staff and
 PhD students during the COVID-19 crisis. ID@OU also understands the importance of
 promoting and implementing gender equality and social inclusion and takes this issue seriously.
 ID@OU is committed to promoting equal opportunities and to involve historically discriminated
 groups at all levels within management, research and dissemination. The ID@OU leadership
 team ensures that research activities adhere to equal opportunity procedures in decision-making
 and work allocation. In addition, the ID@OU leadership team have been monitoring and
 recording the involvement of self-identified historically discriminated individuals in group
 discussions and meetings. For historically discriminated individuals, they have been actively
 encouraged to take opportunities for presenting their research ideas and work, including within
 stakeholder engagement and media opportunities when they arise.

 More specifically, ID@OU addresses equality and diversity in: staff recruitment and career
 progression; research design and management, among doctoral student and postdoctoral
 researchers; and in academic, educational and other socio-economic impact.

 ID@OU research is co-designed and developed with partners. For example, Berardi’s
 programmes with Guyanese partners were co-designed, capacity building was built into project
 development and all publications are co-authored. Levidow’s agro-ecology project was co-
 designed via regular visits over 2 years before full design of the research.


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our future inclusive strategy is to launch an ID@OU Pro-Diversity Action Plan (PDAP) that
 builds on our current ‘Equal Impact Analysis’ work. PDAPs, currently being piloted in several
 existing ID@OU research projects, will form the basis of all research applications and will allow
 us to monitor equality and diversity progress across ID@OU. The PDAP strategy will consist of a
 series of actions that will be implemented within research projects so as to encourage the
 consideration of pro-diversity/equality issues. Our aim is to introduce actions that will:
     • promote diversity and appreciation of multiple perspectives;
     • improve the diversity/gender balance;
     • apply measures to help reconcile work, private life and cultural/ethical preferences;
     • raise awareness of equal opportunities within publications and dissemination.

 Our PDAP implementation will mainstream activities that address the relationship of historically
 discriminated groups through:
     • building awareness of discrimination issues;
     • active mentoring of self-declared historically discriminated individuals;
     • selecting research leadership and participation with equity in mind;
     • considering diversity in work involving community members, firms and organisations.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 Our research is underpinned by strong internal and external support. Since REF 2014, we have
 attracted approximately £5M external research grants and an additional £2.5M competitive
 internal research support over the assessment period. This indicates that our funding over this
 period has shown strong continuity, averaging £1M or so each year. This is due to a strong
 bidding culture that has led to a substantial increase of external funding in 2019-21 (e.g., 2
 successful GCRF bids and 1 new ERC grant totalling c. £2.3M) and subsequent increase in
 research capacity.

 ID@OU obtains its grant income from the most competitive sources. During the assessment
 period the main funders have been the EU, ESRC, EPSRC and The Leverhulme Trust. Since
 REF 2014, our strategy has been to further diversify our funding, including the creation of social
 enterprises, such as the Cobra Collective that empowers local communities through research.
 We have also emphasised investment and institutional support to Early Career Researchers
 (ECR) in bidding for small and medium sized grants. We have succeeded in obtaining 35
 external grants from 17 funders to 15 PIs/Co-Is. We have also succeeded in obtaining significant
 grants from Wellcome (£62,626), Leverhulme (£142,196) and DFID-ESRC (£767,909), as well
 as from the ESRC (£1.4M). Large and medium research grants include the GCRF Migration for
 Inclusive African Growth (£706,705), the GCRF How to Link Industrial and Social Innovation for
 Inclusive Development: Lessons from Tackling Cancer Care in Africa (£699,514) and the UK
 Space Agency Integrated Space Technology Vector Control for Enhancing Community Health
 and Resilience against Escalating Climatic Disruptions (£378,568). Small future research grants
 include the GCRF Food Sovereignty through Agroecology in South America (£23,210) and Co-I
 on Earth Observation Enabled Responsive Climate Adaption for the Kalahari Basin (£22,180).

 The inclusive innovation and development focus of these research projects has led to
 development of deep expertise (9 academics, 3 postdocs and 4 PhDs) over the current period.
 Significant funding has also been secured for work in Asian drivers in African development, with
 3 ESRC and DFID-ESRC grants won in the REF period, totalling £1.6M and additional funding
 from the SRA IDII. ID@OU research on equity, health and human wellbeing now integrates 7
 academics and has attracted more than £800,000 in grants over the REF period, with major
 grants for the next period.

 In winning research funding, we continue to draw heavily on the skills of the senior professoriate,
 research officers and business managers from FASS. In addition, we support a funding pipeline
 from smaller to bigger grants and we also run our own ‘in-house’ mentoring exercises, seminars
 and workshops on grant-getting and publishing in journals. One indicator of the success of these
                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 measures is that 55% of the staff in this submission have won external peer-reviewed grants as
 PI or Co-I. Future research will be sustained by new and recently acquired grants totalling
 £3.5M.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 Since REF 2014, the OU has made heavy investments in research infrastructure and IT support.
 ID@OU is the hub of a set of tightly interconnected networks. It directs one of the five OU
 Strategic Research Areas, SRA IDII which has received a £2.5M investment from 2016-21. The
 SRA IDII has functioned as the OU’s research infrastructure for challenge-led, interdisciplinary
 research bids, with more than 50 active researchers in all OU faculties. In its first 5 years, the
 SRA IDII has been awarded a total of £10,141,143 (award value) for 31 projects with income
 distributed over 7 UOAs. In this UOA, the SRA IDII has enabled 3 administrators and 4 ECRs to
 support external income generation activities, engendering a vibrant interdisciplinary research
 environment with regular seminars, workshops and conferences around our new thematic areas
 of expertise.

 Other investments include support for the move of the Innogen Institute Directorship from the
 University of Edinburgh to the OU, strengthening the international development dimensions of
 research in new life sciences innovation (£24,000), as well as maintenance of the IKD (£65,000).
 We have used this new opportunity to strengthen our research base in Scotland as part of the
 OU’s substantial four nations presence, including three Innogen/OU Scotland collaborative
 projects.

 The University continues to create a technologically rich and sophisticated virtual research
 infrastructure (See IES, section 4). Within a few minutes’ walk of DPP headquarters is the world-
 class OU Library. Researchers in ID@OU have benefited from the library’s investment in all the
 databases essential to the discipline. The University was an early leader in opening access to all
 its research data. OU multi-million-pound investments in online services include one of the UK’s
 largest open access research data repositories, Open Research Data Online (ORDO), enabling
 researchers to share and publish their data and obtain a DOI.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collectively, ID@OU has a distinctive Open Development Approach, grounded in intellectual
 reputation and technological capabilities. It resonates strongly with the University’s social justice
 mission and world profile; all our work has scale and reach, largely due to the OU’s reputation
 and use of technology and networks, and we work in stable and reliable partnerships with
 institutions and scholars of the Global South, generally built up over years. Such engagement
 enhances the intellectual rigour of our research.

 4.1 Interdisciplinary research
 Systems to support interdisciplinary (ID) research include ID research units and initiatives. Some
 are long-standing (for example, the Innogen Institute and the IKD). The SRA IDII, alongside its
 OU investment, has received external funding from four UKRI research councils with strong
 STEM/Social Science/Education ID collaboration. Innogen was externally evaluated as having
 ‘remarkable breadth’ of interdisciplinarity and ‘exceptional degree of cross-citation linking the
 social sciences with public heath, environment and the biosciences.’ Mohan was awarded the
 OU’s Annual Prize for Research Excellence (2018) for his ID research on China Drivers in
 Africa.

 4.2 National and international research collaborations
 A distinctive characteristic of the OU is its degree of long-standing networked research and
 collaborations. The OU is networked with 48 UK universities (including: Edinburgh; Oxford; UCL;
 Cambridge; SOAS; Sussex; Manchester) and to more than 100 overseas organisations in 32
 countries across 5 continents (including: African Medical Health Foundation; Kenya Medical
 Research Institute (KEMRI); Research on Poverty Alleviation and Economic and Social
 Research Foundation (Tanzania); CODESRIA (Senegal); Council for Scientific Industrial

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research (India); Swiss Tropical Institute; National Centre for Animal and Plant Health (Cuba);
 Africa Centre for Energy Policy (Ghana); ACTS (Kenya)).

 We are also linked with 42 governmental and intergovernmental organisations (including:
 Scottish Government; UK Government (FCDO, NHS, ONS, Treasury, House of Lords S&T
 Committee); European Government (EU Joint Research Centre, AKIS, EESC, ESF); African
 Union Development Agency; 10 UN Agencies (including WHO, UNEP, UNDP, UNCTAD, ILO,
 UNIDO, UNICEF); African Development Bank; African Union Commission; African Association of
 Universities; OECD Water Governance Initiative; Economic Commission for Africa; Cuban,
 Kenyan, Namibian and Sao Tome Ministries for Education; Getulio Vargas Foundation (Brazil);
 Chinese Academies of Sciences and Social Sciences. We also collaborate with 61 overseas
 universities in 30 countries (including: Campinas, Brasilia; Berkeley, California; Australia
 (Melbourne, Monash, ANU); Erasmus; Ghana; Harvard; Helsinki; Indian Institute of
 Management, Kolkata; KwaZulu Natal; Lund; Maastricht; Muhimbili University of Health and
 Allied Sciences, Dar es Salaam; Seoul National; Stanford; Tsinghua; Tufts; UNU-MERIT;
 Witwatersrand, Pretoria, South Africa). All these collaborations strengthen Global North and
 South interactions, enabling learning, KE and capacity building for more inclusive and equitable
 development.

 4.3 Research collaboration and public engagement
 The OU is particularly well placed to achieve public engagement with its research. Millions of
 people from over 200 countries actively engage with the OU via our global presence on ORDO.
 Our leading-edge technologies are used around the world to break down geographical and
 social barriers to knowledge, research and development. Our impact in development studies
 has immense public reach through award-winning research-based media dissemination. In this
 REF period, for example, Berardi’s EU research on local participation in environmental decision
 making in the Guyanian rain forest led to his appointment as Lead Consultant on the ‘I Bought a
 Rainforest’ documentary series with audiences averaging 1.7 million per episode. Mohan is the
 advisor to a new 2021 17-part BBC series on the SDGs.

 4.4 Research collaborations with the private sector
 In line with its mission to conduct research via interactive co-production of knowledge, ID@OU is
 distinguished by the wide range of research collaborations with the private sector. Over the REF
 period, we have collaborated with over 20 private sector firms and associations in 6 industrial
 sectors (health, agriculture, mining, energy, industrial and services) and 16 countries in 4
 continents. Mackintosh’s research has included collaborations with pharmaceutical and other
 industrial producers, retailers, wholesalers, private health facilities and industrial associations.
 These include four East African Manufacturing Associations and a range of institutions to
 establish the Access to Medicines Index. Mackintosh’s research evidences the importance of
 local pharma and medical supplies industries in Africa. More generally, ID@OU has regular
 contacts with a group of 7 multinational pharmaceutical and biotech firms concerning public-
 private partnerships. Papaioannou and Kale have also collaborated with biopharmaceutical
 associations in India and South Africa, including the Organization of Pharmaceutical Producers
 of India (OPPI) and the Innovative Pharmaceutical Industry Association South Africa (IPASA) to
 improve industry-government relations through these intermediaries. Mohan has collaborated
 with Chinese oil companies, and with Mott Macdonald in relation to his research on Chinese
 investment into Europe. Kale has collaborated with the South African Medical Device
 Association and with firm-based Business Development Advisors, such as Oxford Micromedical
 Ltd. Papaioannou has worked with IPASA in South Africa and CII and TC Lab in India.
 Shipman collaborates with Oxford Economics and the Economic Intelligence Unit. Levidow
 collaborates with the Leeds Trade Unions Council. Wield has collaborated with Forbes-Marshall
 Group of India on improving innovation management in developing countries, and with the Globe
 Theatre concerning its China programme. Clark has worked with small and medium firms
 concerning how to bring the private sector into technology development in Africa. Srinivas is an
 invited scientific expert on immunisation to Sanofi Pasteur.



                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.5 Research collaborations with the third sector
 The OU has at least 50 significant collaborations with third sector organisations, most either
 international or southern NGOs. 3 NGOs have been set up as a direct result of OU research.
 Research on the harmonisation of life science regulation in Africa facilitates links between
 NEPAD, the Southern African Development Community, the African Network for Drugs and
 Diagnostics Innovation (ANDI), and the Pharmaceutical Industry Association of South Africa.
 Related OU research on health systems strengthening led directly to the establishment of a new
 Zimbabwean NGO, the Citizens Health Watch to provide platforms for care givers and patient
 contributions to health systems strengthening. Johnson’s research has informed co-operative
 union policy in Malawi, and she is a Trustee of the Cooperative College. Berardi’s research on
 indigenous people’s empowerment over the Guyanese rainforest environment directly led to the
 establishment of the Cobra Collective.

 4.6 Seminars, conferences, CPD, journal editorial boards
 We organise a portfolio of research events, including weekly seminars and regular workshops
 and conferences. CPD contributions include a toolkit made on statelessness for large
 programmes for the Education Workforce Initiative (Santos, et al), and Mohan’s work with
 NGOs on international development. Since 2014, our membership of conference
 organising/scientific committees has grown rapidly to 44. Sixteen ID@OU academics have held
 32 journal and book series editorial roles. These include 5 editorships and 27 editorial board
 memberships, including: International Journal of Technology Management, Sustainable
 Development and Biopolicy International (Clark); International Journal of Technology
 Management (Papaioannou); Journal of International Development (Papaioannou); Review of
 African Political Economy (Mohan); Science as Culture (Levidow); Journal of Socio-Economics
 (Anand); International Development Planning Review, Antipode, Political Geography (Mohan);
 Technology Analysis and Strategic Management (Wield); and book series editorships (Mohan,
 Yanacopulos, Wield).

 4.7 Other contributions to the professional associations and the wider social sciences
 The OU hosted the highly successful DSA Annual Conference in 2019 on the theme of ‘Opening
 up Development.’ ID@OU members have been members of DSA Council (Mohan, Johnson,
 Yanacopulos). Johnson was elected Academician of the Social Sciences in 2013.

 4.8 Cooperation and collaborative arrangements for PGRS training
 ID@OU runs the Development Policy and Practice stream in the ESRC-recognised Grand Union
 (Oxford, OU, Brunel) DTP. Researchers of ID@OU play a major role in doctoral training at the
 OU. The face-to-face doctoral workshop programme is built around the OU co-published book,
 Doing Postgraduate Research, and supporting DVD and website. Peer-to-peer support and
 learning are particularly important and provided through a research student support group
 facilitated by ID@OU academics. This group provides both discipline specific and academic
 career training, covering topics that include research bidding, publishing, dissemination and
 impact. There is also an active doctoral collaboration between ID@OU and the University of
 Brasilia.

 4.9 Other indicators of wider influence
 15 researchers have held or hold 42 senior advisory/research council panel positions. These
 include positions on: the African Vaccines Manufacturing Initiative; Academy of Finland; UN
 Habitat; OECD Water Governance Initiative; Department of Business, Energy and Industrial
 Strategy; ESRC Peer Review College and various ESRC and GCRF panels, including Chair of
 three panels; the NERC-DFID El Niño Panel; European School of Governance Board;
 Commonwealth Scholarships Commission. Ison is the President of the International Society for
 Systems Science.

 Mohan was awarded the BSA Sage award for best paper in Sociology in 2020. Mackintosh’s
 REF 2014 impact case study was one of only three international cases in the UKCDS ‘Top 20’.
 Srinivas was awarded the 2015 biennial Myrdal Prize for theoretical contributions in her book,
 Market Menagerie, and was the 2020 Clarence E Ayres Scholar of the Association for

                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Evolutionary Economics for her work in institutional economics. Ugochukwu holds the French
 national honour, Chevalier des Palmes Academique.

 ID@OU researchers have given 200+ presentations (external to the OU) since 2014. These
 include 51 keynotes, plenaries and invited talks (international) given by 15 people in 24
 countries. Finally, 14 people delivered 47 keynotes, plenaries and invited talks in the UK.

 To conclude, ID@OU is a strongly team- and network-driven international centre of excellence
 for research in international development with research foci in science, technology, innovation,
 Asian drivers, health, equity and human wellbeing. Committed to a co-productive partner-based
 approach, we work collaboratively to produce impactful, world-renowned research of the highest
 calibre, with high academic, economic and social impact, as evidenced by the indicators
 presented here. Our research and staffing strategies articulate the ways in which we have built
 on our strengths to meet our REF 2014 strategic targets and plan for continued excellence in
 research to 2027 and beyond.




                                                                                          Page 15
