Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Kingston University

 Unit of Assessment: 17 – Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Unit Context and Structure
Kingston’s submission in Unit of Assessment 17 (Business and Management Studies) is comprised
of 51 staff (48.7 FTE) with 9 Professors and 4 ECRs. All staff are based in Kingston Business
School, one of the two Schools of the Faculty of Business and Social Sciences (FBSS). Unit
research is focussed on the following areas:
   •   Small business and entrepreneurship
   •   Human resource management and organisational behaviour
   •   Marketing and consumer research
   •   Accounting and finance (including cost effective health management)
   •   Innovation and new product development
At the heart of the Unit’s research is the Small Business Research Centre (SBRC), established
in 1987 and one of the University’s research centres of excellence. It was led in this REF period by
Blackburn (from 1996 to 2020) and currently (from January 2020) by Genus. Its core research
focus is entrepreneurship and SMEs in a variety of contexts, including public policy evaluation. It
undertakes grant-led research funded by bodies such as ESRC, Nesta and Innovate UK, and
various forms of contract research for organisations including the Association of Independent
Professionals and the Self-Employed (IPSE), the Legal Services Board and Fishburn Hedges/
Barclays. Researchers in the Unit engage with leading international networks, such as the
European Council for Small Business and Entrepreneurship (ECSB), the International Council for
Small Business and Enterprise (ICSB), and the European Network for Social Research.
More recently, the Centre has developed its research focus on areas of increasing societal and
economic relevance, such as sustainable and inclusive innovation and entrepreneurship, the
quality of self-employment, the employment of disadvantaged groups, and the internationalisation
of SMEs. Recent work includes H2020-funded research on sustainable energy (ENERGISE,
Genus), BEIS/INNOVATE-funded work on technology foresight supporting SMT growth and
productivity (Vecchiato) and supporting flood resilience and recovery for SMEs and homes
(DEFRA, Harries).
The SBRC provides research leadership across the Unit, develops and disseminates the research
activity of its members, supports funding applications and pathways to impact and fosters
collaborations with HE and industry partners. It provides a supportive environment for the
development of ECRs and research students, organises research events including a regular
research seminar series, workshops and conferences.
In addition to the work of the SBRC, research in the unit is organised around 9 further research
groups (see Table 1). The groups support areas of research specialism and encourage the
development of external networks, engagement with stakeholders and increased impact. Their
activities help to strengthen research bids, encourage collaborative research and provide a
developmental environment for ECRs and research students. Research groups provide
opportunities for the development of leadership: two of the groups are led by current or former
ECRs in the Unit. There is close interaction between the SBRC and the groups, and researchers
may be members of more than one group, or group and centre. The groups also benefit from the
membership of visiting and emeritus researchers, as well as affiliated members from other HEIs.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                    Table 1 – Unit membership of research centres / groups
  Research Centre/        Lead           Members                    Affiliates
  Group
  SMALL BUSINESS          Genus          Afrahi (ECR), Chell, De    Kitching (Visiting
  RESEARCH                               Clercq, Favato, Harries,   Professor)
  CENTRE (SBRC)                          Iskandarova, Pierrakis,    Stokes (Emeritus)
                                         Sakellariou (ECR),
                                         Vecchiato
  Responsible             Genus          Afrahi (ECR), Annan-
  Innovation                             Diab, Harris,
  Sustainability                         Iskandarova, Kottasz,
  Entrepreneurship                       Zanjirani-Farahani
  (RISE)
  Decisions, Attitude,    Vallée-        Fitkov-Norris, Gourdon-
  Risk and Thinking       Tourangeau     Kanhukamwe
  (DART)
  Well-Being at Work      Butler         Gourlay, Hannon, Imas,
                                         Kudret, Kutaula,
                                         Memon, Paolillo (ECR),
                                         Wei, Whiley (formerly
                                         Arevshatian), Wolfram
  Operations Research     Zanjirani      Hill, Hwang                Doran (Sussex),
                          Farahani                                  Syntetos (Cardiff)


  Project Management      Di Maddaloni   Davis
                          (ECR)

  Capital Markets         Ibrahim        Alexandrou,
                                         Anagnostopoulos,
                                         Giannopoulos,
                                         Isachenkova,
                                         Khansalar, Noikokyris,
                                         Nurulla, Pereira,
                                         Petrovic, Zhao, Van Den
                                         Berg
  Leadership and          Favato         Annan-Diab, Marcellusi,    Mennini (University of
  Management in                          Noikokyris, Vecchiato      Rome "Tor Vergata"),
  Health                                                            Pinzani (UCL, London)
  Consumer Research       Dall’Olmo      Hand, Harris, Kalafatis,
                          Riley          Ledden, Robinson
  Word of Mouth           Chawdhary      Hand, Dall’Olmo Riley      East (Emeritus), Liu
  Communication           (former ECR)                              (Southampton Business
  (WOM)                                                             School), Razmdoost
                                                                    (ESCP Business
                                                                    School), Romaniuk
                                                                    (University of South
                                                                    Australia)


                                                                                         Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research and Impact Strategy

The four strategic goals set in REF2014 were: (i) increase the volume and quality of research
output; (ii) broaden and increase external funding; (iii) enable and facilitate research impact; and
(iv) expand the doctoral programme. Progress against these goals is given below. In addition, the
Unit has fostered a culture of increased interdisciplinarity and of open access.


   i) Increase the volume and quality of research output
We have strengthened the Unit’s distinctive competencies in Small Business / Entrepreneurship,
Marketing and Consumer Research, and Human Resources Management and Organisational
Behaviour:
   •   In Small Business / Entrepreneurship, the SBRC has produced a large and varied body of
       research and research-related output (over 300 journal articles, conference papers, and
       government / industry reports since 2014) and attracted international visiting scholars (e.g.
       Heinonen, Finland). More recently, the SBRC has developed synergies with researchers on
       innovation, sustainable entrepreneurship and social enterprise within the Unit and across
       the Faculty.
   •   The Consumer Research Group has hosted Academy of Marketing-badged events (chaired
       by Hand and Ledden) and has further developed its research in branding (Dall’Olmo
       Riley, Kalafatis, Ledden), multi-channel shopping (Harris), multimedia use (Robinson)
       and arts and leisure marketing (Hand).
   •   Research related to Well-Being at Work has further developed, within the domains of
       leadership (Butler), diversity and inclusion in the workplace (Paolillo, Whiley), as well as
       social psychology perspectives within organisational settings (Wolfram).
We have capitalised on our expertise to transform the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic into
research outcomes and opportunities to build or consolidate relationships with researchers in other
institutions:
   •   Since April 2020, Butler has collaborated with researchers at Maynooth University (Ireland)
       on a longitudinal, 41-countries study on remote working under COVID-19 and its effect on
       well-being. The finding that Millennials face the most challenges in coping with workplace
       disruptions during the COVID-19 pandemic has been widely reported in the media.
   •   Chawdhary (with Merz, Vrije Universiteit and van Weert, National Screening Laboratory,
       Sanquin Research) is co-editing the International Journal of Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector
       Marketing special issue on the impact of COVID-19 on fundraising and donation behaviour.
   •   Kutaula is lead guest editor of the Journal of Business Ethics special issue on “The impact
       of the COVID-19 crisis on ethical consumption in emerging markets”.
We have developed new areas of expertise through capital investment and by prioritising research
potential and performance in our recruitment and promotion processes (see Section 2):
   •   We have recruited a cluster of academic experts in innovation and new product
       development (Pierrakis, Sakellariou (ECR), Vecchiato) and retained an ECR researcher
       (Di Maddaloni), with expertise in project management, from our PhD programme.
   •   Under the leadership of Ibrahim, the establishment of the Capital Markets Research Group
       has stimulated cutting-edge research output in finance, also via the retention of Pereira
       from our PhD programme, and capital investment in a Bloomberg Trading Room (access to
       Bloomberg and Datastream). In March 2020, further investment in an online Bloomberg
       Terminal was key to the pursuit of research during the first lockdown. For instance, Pereira
       completed a study with external co-authors on the relationship between the tone of
       earnings calls, ESG performance, and market reaction during the COVID-19 pandemic.



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •    Capital investment in a Behavioural Science Laboratory (in 2017) has been instrumental to
        developing research into decision-making, following the establishment of the Decision,
        Attitude, Risk and Thinking (DART) research group (Vallée-Tourangeau).


   ii) Broaden and increase external funding
The external research income in the period is £2.24m (≈ £45,175 @ FTE submitted). Table 2
compares total income and income by source with that of the preceding REF cycle:


                             Table 2 – Research income by source
          UK Central      Research       UK         UK Industry,       EU      Non-EU      Total
          Government      Funding      Charities   commerce, and     sources   sources
         Bodies / Local    Bodies                      public
           authorities                              corporations,
                                                        other
             £0.82m        £0.31m      £0.21m          £0.2m         £0.62m    £0.08m     £2.23m
 2021
              36%           14%         10%              9%           28%        3%
             £0.92m        £1.14m      £0.05m         £0.63m         £0.24m    £0.11m     £3.09m
 2014
              30%           37%          2%             20%            8%        4%


Although the total income generated in this REF period is lower than in REF2014, we have had
successes in some areas. The income generated from UK central government sources (e.g.
research projects funded by DWP) is comparable with 2014. A more targeted approach has
achieved higher success rate of applications (doubling from 20% to 42%) from UK government and
substantially higher level of income from EU sources including government bodies such as
Eurofound (c. £619,000 versus c. £242,000 in 2014). We have also significantly increased the
income from UK charities, from £50,000 in 2014 to c. £213,000.
More staff have been supported to develop confidence and skills in bidding for external funding in
the period, for example the number of staff applying for non-KTP funding as PI has increased from
44 to 57 through the period (including former staff) and the number of funding applications has
risen to 210, from 166 in REF2014. Examples of this are the first successful bids for small awards
(up to £5,000) won by Chawdhary, Harris and Kottasz from the Academy of Marketing. More
generally, the profile of applications has changed, with 62% of applications for less than £25k in
the current REF cycle (compared to 48% in REF2014) and 18% of them for an amount between
£25k and £100k (compared to 29% in 2014). The proportion above 100K is broadly comparable
between the two REF periods.


   iii) Develop impactful research
Our approach to generating impact from our research has been through seeking and fostering
longer-term collaborations with stakeholders, including large and small business organisations,
government and non-government bodies, national and local authorities, as well as through public
engagement. We have established these relationships through our strong reputation for research
on entrepreneurship and small businesses, health management, sustainable innovation, and new
product development.
The four submitted case studies exemplify the scope and range of the unit’s research impact, in
areas such as: government policy (nationally and internationally) as in (ICSUoA17Harries3) and
(ICSUoA17Favato1); the processes and practices of multinational firms (ICSUoA17Vecchiato2)
and the viability and sustainability of a start-up SME (ICSUoA17Chell4).
Other impactful research has been generated from collaborations with Sanofi Pasteur (Vallée-
Tourangeau); NHS Wales (Annan-Diab); and academy schools (Hill), as further described in
Section 4. Furthermore, Genus’ research on innovative ‘living lab’ approaches to engaging

                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
citizens and reducing energy use has begun to change the terms of the energy policy debate in the
European Commission (EC), while helping participants in eight countries to lower household
energy consumption.
Since REF2014, our impact support structures have been reinforced to include a Business
Development Manager and an Impact Development Manager (from central Research, Business
and Innovation teams) who help staff identify the potential impact of their research and knowledge
exchange opportunities, provide training, development and 1:1 support with evidence gathering
and evaluation.


    iv) Expansion of the doctoral programmes
Led by the Director of the Doctoral Programme (Favato), the number of PGR completions has
increased from 42 during the REF2014 period to 72 (plus 2 by publication) in this REF cycle,
including 56 PhDs, 14 DBAs and 12 Doctorates in Occupational and Business Psychology
(DOBP), launched in 2016. Table 3 below shows the year-on-year completion trajectory.


                                  Table 3 – PGR Completions
           2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Grand Total
   PhD        4         4         11         4         11         7          5           46
   DBA        4         2          1         2          1         3          1           14
  DoBP       N/A       N/A        N/A       N/A       N/A         7          5           12
              8         6         12         6         12        17         11           72


This increase is the result of substantial investment from both the Unit and the University in
developing the supervision capability of staff, through working in teams with experienced
supervisors. We offer thematic and open studentships for prospective PGR students, advertised
annually through the University website and through jobs.ac.uk. These are in addition to a
Graduate Teaching Assistance (GTA) scheme whereby PGR students are paid for engaging in
teaching activities.


Interdisciplinarity and Open Research
One of the key functions of the SBRC and the research groups is to foster interdisciplinary
research, in ways that lead to significant economic and societal impact. For example, SBRC/RISE
sustainability research led by Genus in collaboration with partners in the EU Horizon 2020
‘ENERGISE’ project brings together researchers from business & management, politics and
international studies, and the built environment to have impact on households’ energy consumption
behaviour and government policy. Harries’ work (SBRC) combines small business research with
environmental policy and behavioural psychology to address questions of flood resilience in the UK
and the Netherlands (ICSUoA17Harries3). The Leadership and Management in Health group, led
by Favato, brings health policy and economics together with management analysis in ways that
have had impact on national vaccination programmes in Italy and the UK (ICSUoA17Favato1).
The DART (Decision Attitude, Risk and Thinking) group supports an interdisciplinary behavioural
science research with a network of more than 30 external partners from disciplines including
psychology, economics, sociology, geography and social work. DART’s recent research includes
investigation of how expert reviewers make judgments about research proposals (Vallée-
Tourangeau), involving researchers from psychology and health & social care and financed by the
Wellcome Trust.
The Unit supports an open access research environment in line with the University’s ‘green’
approach. Additional funding is also made available for ‘gold’ open access in addition to any UKRI
funding requirements. We require all researchers to register with ORCID and make their profiles

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
public. We have an Open Access champion (Gourdon-Kanhukamwe) who promotes Open
Science within the Unit, Faculty and University (e.g. delivering Open Science and Open Software
presentations at the annual Faculty Research Conference and with a University wide Open
Research Journal Club), and who is an ambassador for the Centre for Open Science. To date, 26
staff have taken advantage of funds made available for gold open access publishing (a total of 53
articles in gold open access journals, 11 of which are included in this submission).


Research and Impact Strategy 2021-2026
Our research vision for 2021-2026 is ‘to work collaboratively to contribute credible insights and
tangible value to people’s lives, business practices, society and the environment through impactful
research’. It flows from the institutional strategic aim within the University’s Strategic Plan to
‘advance our subject areas and increase our societal influence and impact’. We aim to: 1) stimulate
knowledge-generation around future-focused priorities; 2) nurture a positive research culture
underpinned by openness, inclusion, and integrity; and 3) enable and facilitate collaborative
research impact and knowledge exchange through strong research partnerships.


1. Stimulate knowledge generation around future-focused priorities
We will build communities of research practice around areas of thematic importance in order
to ensure a critical mass of researchers from different research groups working together on
innovative and future-facing questions. Areas of thematic importance include sustainable
entrepreneurship; well-being at work; and decision-making under uncertainty. By building such
communities, we will increase the sharing of best practice and facilitate interaction among
researchers looking at similar questions from different disciplinary and/or methodological angles.
Each area will be fostered by a research lead and have an allocated budget.
We will increase the number of collaborative inter-institutional and cross-disciplinary
networks, building on our membership of professional and research networks such as: ENSR
(European Network for Social Research); Chartered Association of Business Schools; special
interest groups within the British Academy of Management and Institute of Small Business and
Entrepreneurship and the Social Enterprise UK’s Ally Network (joined in Spring 2020). We will
apply to become a founding member of the Institute of Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
Recent inter-institutional collaborations with Maynooth University (Ireland) and with LSE have
resulted in joint seminars, grant applications and outputs.
To increase the breadth and volume of external funding we plan a threefold approach: (i)
research groups will be the focus for small grant applications and for developing ECR’s bidding
potential in highly specialised bids; (ii) the larger thematic groups will be at the heart of large-scale,
collaborative proposals and of the development of ECRs’ general skills in bidding and impact; and
(iii) at both levels, we will support staff engagement in partnership-building events as well as
thematic collaborative “sand-pit” grant writing retreats to stimulate innovation.


2. Nurture a positive research culture underpinned by openness, inclusion, and integrity
Key research policy stakeholders (e.g., UKRI) have identified the need to consider how excellence
is achieved across the UK research and innovation sector. Aligned with the University’s signing up
to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and the San Francisco
Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA), the Unit will foster its engagement with open
research practices by strengthening our links with the Responsible Research in Business and
Management (RRBM) network.
We will develop an inclusive research culture by prioritising research activities which promote
knowledge exchange and innovation between colleagues at different career stages, mentoring
ECRs and those who are growing their areas of responsibility in research. We will address any
imbalance in gender representation in administrative roles and design activities (such as mentoring
by senior female peers) aimed at closing this gap.

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We will further embed our doctoral training in research activities by including PhD researchers
in thematic communities of research practice. Research students are also hired as research
assistants (including for impact or knowledge exchange work) which further enriches doctoral
training and contributes to career development.


3. Enable and facilitate collaborative research impact and knowledge exchange through
strong partnerships
The SBRC already has a track-record of external business engagement, evidenced by its recent
successful accreditation submission to the Small Business Charter (2020). As we believe that
research and business engagement have a mutually productive relationship, we aim to extend the
SBRC model to the Unit as a whole, by actively supporting researchers in each thematic area to
identify and build relationships with key stakeholders. Each thematic research lead will be
supported to organise knowledge exchange events and develop and maintain existing strategic
links with national and international organisations (e.g. Carbon Trust, OECD, ENSR and Social
Enterprise UK) and partners (e.g. Kingston Chamber of Commerce, Royal Borough of Kingston
local authority and South London Partnership) as well as new knowledge transfer partnerships. A
newly appointed Faculty Associate Dean for Enterprise (Genus) will take this forward, supported
by University capital investment into research infrastructure, including a £50k investment from the
University to create a Kingston Living Lab, which will enable extension of the work of the
ENERGISE project.


 2. People

Staff
The University’s academic career development framework, known as “Domains” (see Institutional
Environment Statement), recognises and values staff contribution and career aspirations in
research alongside learning and teaching, knowledge exchange and professional practice.
Within the Unit, we have management and support structures which help define, develop and
sustain the diversity of career aspirations of our staff and promote the importance of research, not
only as an independent activity but also for research-informed teaching and professional practice.
The central Research, Business and Innovation directorate provides support with grant-writing,
impact development and business partnership in support of research. Research active staff set
annual personal research plans in agreement with their line manager and Department Research
Director (DRD). Equality and diversity are integral to the research activities and staffing strategy of
the Unit, through flexible/remote working arrangements and other measures (see Equality and
Diversity).
Our strategic ambition of deepening and broadening research culture, increasing engagement in
research and the quality of impactful research activity, provides the framework for implementing
our staff recruitment, staff development and promotion strategies.
Of the 51 staff in this submission, 13 were recruited in the assessment period. We have attracted
staff at all career stages from research intensive institutions in the UK and abroad (e.g. Durham
University, King’s College London, University of Exeter, Cardiff University, City Business School,
Loughborough University, Aalto University, Politecnico di Milano, University of Rome "Tor
Vergata", The World Bank, Alba Graduate Business School). We have employed three permanent
post-doctoral researchers and three researchers on fixed contracts, funded by a combination of
QR and external grants funding. We also recruited three talented researchers from our PhD
programme:
   •    Di Maddaloni (current ECR and former GTA), founder of the Project Management
        Research Group.
   •    Chawdhary (former GTA), continuing the well-established Word of Mouth Communication
        research stream, with Emeritus Professor Robert East, after the death of Professor Wendy
        Lomax.

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •    Pereira (former GTA) who has contributed to the Capital Market Research Group with six
        peer-reviewed publications since 2016.
Research achievements and research potential have informed all our new appointments, including
appointments focussed on strengthening or developing areas of research, ensuring the
sustainability of our research environment:
    •   We recruited Marcellusi to work with Favato on health economics research.
    •   Sakellariou, Pierrakis and Vecchiato have strengthened the Unit’s entrepreneurship and
        innovation research activity. They have been working with SBRC staff on external
        engagement projects (e.g. for the Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy
        on raising productivity).
    •   Paolillo’s (ECR) research specialisation on age discrimination fits well the Diversity and
        Inclusion research stream within the Well Being at Work Research Group.
We nurture and support our staff to fulfil their research potential and career aspirations both within
and outside Kingston. Since REF2014, 53% of staff have achieved promotion in the period,
including 8 staff to Associate Professor (3 are women) and six to Professor (2 women). Staff
leavers have moved to institutions which include Lancaster University, University of Southampton,
Birkbeck University of London, University of Kent, The University of Liverpool, and Tongji
University (Shanghai).
An important aspect of staff development within the Unit is the support given to individuals at the
beginning of their research careers, through networks at the Unit, Faculty and University level, and
‘first pump-priming grants’ (four awards ranging from £5,500 to £8,800, total £29.8K). ECRs and
newly research active staff are assigned an internal research mentor to support delivery of
research plans agreed with the DRD and HoD.
The Unit also has a long history of appointing external research mentors (e.g. Professor Money for
Strategy and Marketing; Jorgensen in Accounting and Finance; and van der Heijden, in HRM and
OB), complementing the expertise of internal mentors and working with staff at all stages in their
career, both remotely and in person, visiting the Unit several times a year.
All staff have access to development funding to help enhance their career progression. This has
taken the form of funding for a higher degree (e.g. Harris, Robinson), specialist training on a
particular research method (Chawdhary), or presentation of research at external conferences
(almost 400 papers presented 2014-2020). The latter constitutes the largest resource allocation for
staff-development, with annual expenditure ~ £150,000 before Covid-19 ceased research travel in
the period. We expect staff to convert conference papers into peer-reviewed journal articles.
School and Department Research Directors and mentors work with junior staff to facilitate this. In
Spring 2020, funds that could no longer be spent for activities such as conference attendance,
were redirected to assist the COVID-related research activities mentioned in Section 1.
In addition to supporting staff to attend external conferences:
   •    We host an annual Faculty Research Conference (held online in 2020), where researchers
        at all stages of their career, including PGR students, present their work and / or submit a
        Poster. The Conference promotes research culture and interdisciplinary research across
        the Unit and the Faculty.
   •    Research groups and departments organise research seminars (~30 per year), topical
        workshops (e.g. Open-source alternatives to SPSS; how to publish in top journals;
        PRINCE2 and AGILE training) with internal and external contributors (e.g. Professors
        Baker, The University of Alabama; Jorgensen, LSE; Bourlakis, Cranfield University; Wright,
        Massey University; Cooney, Dublin Institute of Technology) as well as Erasmus mobility
        scheme visitors. The SBRC alone has held over 40 seminars over this REF cycle, mostly
        with external speakers (e.g. Dimov, University of Bath; Bennett, University of Cambridge;
        Tornikoski, Grenoble École de Management; Mason, University of Glasgow; Foss, Arctic
        University of Norway). PGR students are encouraged to attend all seminars and workshops
        and to meet the presenters.


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   We hold annual away days and on-site ‘research days’ at departmental level, in addition to
       residential publication workshops. We aim to balance the number and frequency of
       residential/off-site events with short on-site workshops, to ensure that all staff (and PGR
       students) have equal access, including those with special needs or caring responsibilities.
University Business Development Managers work closely with the Unit to facilitate exchanges
between academics and business, industry and public sector bodies by organising external
networking and Knowledge Exchange events such as the annual Kingston Business Expo
Networking event and the bi-annual Business Breakfasts. The latter are thematic lectures /
workshops where academic and business participants exchange best practice on a current theme
(e.g. energy efficiency for SME – led by Genus in collaboration with the Carbon Trust and funded
from the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme).
All research workshops and seminars were held online from March 2020 onwards.
Section 4 reports further examples of staff engagement with private and public sector
organisations.


Postgraduate Research Students
The Unit has a thriving doctoral programme (see also Section 1) that makes an important
contribution to the intellectual vibrancy of the School. We currently have 47 PGR students (25 FT,
15 PT and 7 completing minor thesis revision post-VIVA), as detailed below:


                                Table 4 – current PGR students
                 DBA                DOBP                 PhD               TOTAL
                  3                    4                  40                  47

Our student body is international (44% are non-UK/ EU) and over 60% are women. We have a
dedicated doctoral suite where students have access to a workspace and social facilities. The DBA
programme has AMBA accreditation. Most students follow a ‘traditional’, thesis-based route to their
PhD / DBA / DoBP. We also offer a PhD by prior publication/portfolio.
All PGR students have access to centralised support networks, including pastoral care, from the
University’s Graduate Research School. The Director of the MRes (Hand), the Faculty Director of
Doctoral Programmes (Favato), the supervisory teams and the Unit Research - PGR Coordinators
provide academic guidance and practical support to research students. We offer competitive
studentships comprehensive of a stipend and fees (11 awarded over the REF cycle), as well as fee
waivers based on financial need. We also have a Graduate Teaching Assistantships scheme,
whereby we employ PGR students to assist with teaching and marking (21 students over the
period).
As evidenced in Section 1, in this assessment period we had 72 PGR completions (plus 2 by
publication, versus 42 in REF2014. The increased number of PGR completions in this REF cycle is
the result of:
    • Substantial investment from both the Unit and the University since 2014, including thematic
      and open studentships for prospective PGR students and the GTA programme.
    • The development of systems to help enhance the student journey.
       o We have made a strategic effort to build the research expertise and supervision capacity
         of our staff through team working, mentoring and training. New supervisors attend
         University workshops (e.g. ‘Examining and Chairing at Kingston’ and ‘New PGR
         Supervisor Training’) and the webinars run jointly with TECHNE (e.g. mental health
         webinar for supervisors). Experienced supervisors attend ‘refresher’ workshops every 3
         to 5 years.


                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       o We have launched annual alumni workshops bringing together current and past
         students, discussing themes such as “Essential toolkit to survive...and enjoy the Viva
         exam”, “How to get an academic job” and “Publishing from your PhD”.
Training and career development are an integral element of our doctoral programme. We follow a
1+3 programme, where all students undertake a Masters in Business and Management Research
Methods (MRes) in year one. A credit-bearing MRes is a distinctive feature of our doctoral
programme. Most other business schools have training as part of the PGR programme, but only
use an MRes (or similar) as an exit award and do not award it alongside the Doctorate. The MRes
ensures that our graduates have a thorough grounding across the range of methods employed in
business research and all have experience of undertaking both quantitative and qualitative
analysis. Students need to pass the MRes with a minimum grade of 60% to progress to the
doctoral part of the programme; this ‘screening’ helps subsequent completion rates.
During the first lockdown, online training and career development activities for our MRes and PGR
Students have supplemented individual supervision:
   •   Weekly webinars, delivered by senior staff on topics ranging from: ‘remote working and
       wellbeing’ (Butler) and ‘how to publish your PhD work’ (Ibrahim), to ‘reviewing literature
       systematically’ (Gourley) and ‘writing for impact’ (Favato) took place between May and
       July 2020.
   •   Individual clinics: 1-hour weekly slots with Favato on: Statistical analysis & Econometrics
       and Research contribution/impact.
   •   PhD community: a virtual forum to chat, blog, upload links, and share ideas about research.
Students also attend Professional Researcher training events, organised by the University’s
Graduate Research School. The Graduate School runs an annual Three Minute Thesis (3MT)
competition, which challenges students to stage a compelling spoken presentation on their
research topic and its significance in three minutes. The contest runs as a heat, a training
programme and a final; the winner competes in the national 3MT competition, run by Vitae. The
competition was online in 2020. Several students from the Business School compete every year. In
addition to having free access to relevant conference events hosted by Kingston, we encourage
and financially support research students to attend international conferences and visit other
institutions (e.g., Kasperova visited the Turku School of Economics, Finland). This helps with their
academic career development and confidence, particularly when they achieve formal recognition of
their work. For example, awards have been won by Kasperova (Emerald Literati Network Award for
Excellence for the Outstanding Paper of the Year in the International Journal of Entrepreneurial
Behaviour and Research, 2015); Crisafulli (EDAMBA thesis competition prize, 2016); Quamina
(Best Paper Award at the 11th Global Brand Conference, 2016).
An analysis of a sample of our doctoral graduates since 2018 (n = 35) showed that 100% were
employed; 80% worked in academia, 93% of them were appointed as Lecturer or above. Our
graduates working in academia have found employment in institutions such as Birkbeck, City,
Henley Business School, UCL, Deusto Business School, University of Rome "Tor Vergata",
Coventry University, Edinburgh Napier University, University of Jeddah, and Notre Dame
University (Beirut, Lebanon). The PhD graduates working outside academia are either consultants
(e.g. Africa Research and Consulting Centre) or work in the private sector.


Equality and Diversity
Our UoA staff are international; over 50% of staff submitted are non-UK. Eleven (22%) of
submitted staff are BAME (compared with 27% of all Category A staff). The University sets out the
broader context within which the Unit approaches its EDI policies and practices. Kingston is one of
first nine universities in the UK to hold the Race Equality Charter bronze award, in recognition of
efforts to improve the representation, progression and success of Black, Asian and minority ethnic
staff and students within higher education (in 2015, renewed 2019).
Kingston has held a Bronze Athena Swan award at institutional level since 2013 (renewed 2017).
The Athena Swan submission for the Business School will be made by 30th April 2021. Table 5

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
reports the gender composition of: all Category A staff within the Unit, staff submitted, and staff
submitted as a proportion of all Category A staff in the Unit, compared with REF2014.

             Table 5 – Gender profile of staff submitted in REF 2014 and REF2021
                                                          REF 2014            REF 2021
                                                        Female Male Female            Male
           All Category A staff in Unit                   42%     58%       49%       51%
           Staff submitted (staff with SRR in 2021)       32%     68%       45%       55%
           Staff submitted as % of Category A staff       22%     33%       58%       68%

The gender balance of Unit researchers has improved slightly since REF2014 (see Table 5). 47%
of Associate Professors and 33% of Professors are women. The latter is in line with the proportion
of female professors nationally (Times Higher Education, 26/9/2019). Just over 60% of submitted
researchers are below 50 years of age (57% of Category A staff are in this age group). Addressing
the gender gap in staff submitted is part of our plans for the next cycle.
During teaching periods, researchers have one day per week of research allocation time (or pro
rata for fractional staff) in line with their personal research plans and research leadership
responsibilities. Staff can use research time in block mode to work overseas on their research
projects (e.g. Dall’Olmo Riley, Whiley and Imas, supported by grants from Santander Research
Mobility Scheme). Introducing more flexible periods of short research leave is part of our plans for
2021-2026.
All staff are entitled to request flexible working; the HoDs assess each request against a list of
criteria recommended by Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service, recognising the importance
of work/life balance and employee well-being in the Unit’s working environment (e.g. for staff
completing their PhD or with caring responsibilities). The same policy applies to staff and research
students managing long-term illness or returning from maternity leave. There were no constraints
on remote working, for either staff or research students, even before March 2020. Compatibly with
teaching or other work commitments, staff can take up a visiting position elsewhere for a few
weeks (e.g. Imas at University of Bologna, Buenos Aires campus).
Standard University policies and provisions are in place to support staff and research students
after a prolonged period of leave. Research students managing long-term illness can suspend their
studies for the duration of the illness. PGR students impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic can
apply for a fee-free extension of registration and of any applicable scholarships for up to 6 months,
to be added at the end of the normal registration period.
Finally, the Unit’s approach to its 2021 submission has followed the process set out in KU’s REF
Code of Practice. An internal panel of 16 subject experts was appointed to select the outputs
included in the submission, taking into consideration self-assessments made by staff in the unit.
All members of the internal review panel received unconscious bias training, ensuring
transparency, consistency, accountability and inclusivity in the final selection of output. To aid the
selection of the output portfolio, all staff with SRR were invited to submit up to six outputs for
review by the internal review panel. We provided training workshops to aid SRR staff self-assess
their selection of output for originality, significance and rigour.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income
We have sought to generate external research income from a variety of sources, in a challenging
external environment (Chartered Association of Business Schools Report, 2018). Since REF2014,
we have made 210 external research applications; overall data of income and sources are reported
in Section 1.

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Significant headline awards in terms of impact and output since REF2014 include:
   •   ‘ENERGISE’ (European Network for Research, Good Practice and Innovation for
       Sustainable Energy) Project, led at Kingston by Genus, Iskandarova and Harris funded by
       Horizon 2020 (£300k, 2016-2019) within a 3.7 million euro 11-partner, 10-country project.
       The Kingston team contributed to developing the conceptual framework, establishing a
       database of sustainable energy consumption initiatives across the EU and producing two
       policy reports, two policy briefings and two workshop proceedings reports. Reviewing it
       after its completion, the EC’s Innovation and Networks Agency (INEA) concluded that
       ENERGISE has ‘delivered exceptional results with significant immediate or potential impact’
       relevant to the implementation of the five dimensions of the EU Energy Union.
   •   “Technology foresight for growth and productivity: the design and implementation of a new
       foresight approach for UK SMEs” led by Vecchiato, Blackburn, Do and Pierrakis funded
       by Innovate UK within the Business Basics Fund Programme (£48K, 2018-2019). The main
       objective of the project was to identify the most relevant technologies for a cluster of
       London-based digital health SMEs and thus to raise the productivity of these SMEs, by
       enabling better investment decisions. Of the 11 SMEs that participated in the project, six
       have already invested in at least one of the four technologies (artificial intelligence, big data
       analytics, smart devices, Internet of things) that were highlighted in the foresight evaluation
       process and eight are considering doing so, in the next three years. A journal article is in
       draft.
   •   Future of Manufacturing: Born Globals and their International Value Chain project, led by
       Smallbone (deceased 2020), Blackburn and Do, and funded by Eurofound (£127k, 2016-
       2019) in collaboration with IKEI (Spain). This project investigated the international activities
       of ‘born global enterprises’ within their international value chains, and developed policy
       pointers on the promotion of SME internationalisation. It involved 10 EU countries and was
       part of a larger project of the EC on the future of manufacturing activities in Europe.
   •   Detecting and making recommendations for outstanding research proposals: An
       examination of decision-making by expert grant reviewers, led by Vallée-Tourangeau and
       funded by the Wellcome Trust (£175k, 2018- present) examines how expert reviewers
       make judgments about research proposals. The first phase of the project has originated
       one research output under review. The project is a collaboration across discipline
       boundaries, including input from a KU member returned in UoA3. The team and the
       Wellcome Trust are currently discussing the implication of the preliminary findings for how
       the Trust engage peer-reviewers in their research funding allocation process.
   •   Smallbone’s British Council award (Newton Fund, World Vision: £33,916) considered
       poverty reduction in Brazil via empowerment for women to either join the labour market or
       to acquire skills to establish and develop a sustainable business.
Other awarding bodies include the Department of Work and Pensions, British Council, the British
Academy, the Academy of Marketing (AM), the British Academy of Management (BAM), the
Association of Independent Professionals and the Self-Employed, the European Parliament, KTP
scheme and the OECD. The number of small awards during the period partially reflects our policy
of supporting researchers at all stages in their career to submit funding applications of various
sizes, particularly when they have impact potential or fit with the Government’s Industrial Strategy.
For example, Ibrahim was awarded £3,994 from BAM for a project examining how pay-
performance relates to the measures used for bonus payments in executive compensation
contracts; Kottasz received £5,000 from AM for a study of how individuals who are unable or
unwilling to drive feel and think about using driverless cars.
During the period, we have also received income from ongoing projects funded by e.g. 3 UK
Research Councils, the Richard Benjamin Trust, the Small Business Council, the Royal
Geographic Society and Young Enterprise:




                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                            Table 6 – Analysis of Research Income



    Research Areas                 % of   % new        Example funders
                                   income awards
    Small Business Research                            Barclays, BEIS, British Academy,
    Centre                                             British Council, Chartered Association
                                                       of Business Schools, DEFRA,
                                                       Department for Work and Pensions,
                                    55%        65%     Dun and Bradstreet, EU H2020,
                                                       Eurofound, IPSE, Legal Services
                                                       Board, OECD, Professional
                                                       Contractors Group, UK Finance,
                                                       Worklab
    Accounting, Finance and                            British Academy of Management,
                                     1%        1%
    Informatics                                        University of Rome "Tor Vergata"
    Management – inclusive of                          ACAS, Adastrum Consulting, British
    Organisational Behaviour                           Academy of Management, Department
    and Human Resources                                for Work and Pensions, East Sussex
    Management                                         NHS Trust, European Association of
                                    27%        22%
                                                       Decision Making, Norwegian Research
                                                       Council, Prison Reform Project - High
                                                       Down Prison, Rebekah Giffney
                                                       Consulting Wellcome Trust
    Strategy, Marketing and                            Academy of Marketing, AHRC, British
    Innovation                                         Academy, EPSRC, ESRC, Innovate
                                    17%        12%
                                                       UK, Marketing Trust, Kingston Council,
                                                       Wellcome Trust, Young Enterprise

We have leveraged QR funds to promote grant-funding applications, support staff drafting bids,
provide pump-priming funds and ensure support for undertaking research activity. Since REF2014,
we have held an annual ‘bidathon’, two-day workshops or residential grant-writing retreats at the
Missenden Centre, attended by both experienced staff developing large research proposals (e.g.
Harries and Vallée-Tourangeau who submitted successful bids after one of the retreats) and by
early career researchers. We also hold annual workshops on campus, to facilitate the attendance
of staff with caring or other responsibilities.
Finally, whenever possible and appropriate, we have capitalised on open access data sources,
such as the Taking Part survey commissioned by the UK Government’s Department for Culture,
Media and Sport. We expect that the use of secondary data sources will increase in line with the
availability of open access data sets. We also capitalise on our industry connections to attract
‘donations in kind’, for example the data sets and data coding, free of charge, obtained from the
Marketing, Technology and Data Specialists CACI.


Infrastructure and Facilities
During this REF cycle, income targets for the Unit have been set by the AD Research in agreement
with the Unit’s Director of Research and the Department research leads.
We have been working with the University’s Research Business and Innovation (RBI) directorate in
setting up an enhanced support structure aimed at encouraging more staff to submit proposals and
at creating a more sustainable research culture for external grants applications. All staff receive
monthly funding alert emails from the Research Development Manager (RDM), providing details of
forthcoming funding schemes. The RDM meets with researchers either individually or through
department or research group meetings. The aim is to support a more effective targeting of
research funding opportunities. The RDM assists with grant proposal preparation, including


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
costings. RBI also provides support for staff once the award is in place. All grant applications are
subject to ethical assessment.
Targeted capital investment has enabled us to expand research facilities within the Unit. As
already mentioned, we have invested in a Bloomberg trading room, where a Datastream terminal
is available. In addition, in 2017 we equipped a Behavioural Science Laboratory for the
collection of behavioural data. The lab includes eye-tracking technology which, for example, has
enabled data collection for a study on eye tracking as a method of investigating compliance with
instructions (Gourdon-Kanhhukamwe and Vallée-Tourangeau). Vallée-Tourangeau is currently
coordinating an interdisciplinary, international bid to the ESRC for a project on how and when
socio-cognitive interactivity supports team-work and innovation (with Professors Reber from the
University of Oslo, Steffensen from the University of Southern Denmark and with F. Vallée-
Tourangeau and Nebel, from respectively the Psychology and Computer Science Units at
Kingston). The lab’s facilities will enable data collection.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

The Unit’s engagement with the wider academic research community, industry, and professional
associations is described below. In addition, the focus on research has also facilitated AACSB
(2016) and EPAS (EFMD) (2017) accreditations.
Research agreements have been signed with national and international partners:
Since 2016, we have signed three research-led Memoranda of Understanding with: the SME
Research Centre at Deakin University (Australia); Siegen University (Germany) and Zhejiang
University (China), for staff exchanges, research collaborations and conference organisations.
Blackburn visited Deakin in 2017, as a member of their Advisory Board and contributed to the
Australian Internationalisation of SME White Paper; Tanewski (Deakin University) visited Kingston
in 2018. The SBRC also has links (including staff exchanges), with Turku School of Economics
(Finland) and the Institut fur Mittelstand (Germany), which funded a comparative study on
business banking in the UK and Germany. Furthermore, the SBRC has an on-going collaboration
with St Gallen University regarding the Global University Entrepreneurial Spirit Students’ Survey
(GUESSS) and is responsible for the English component of the study.
In 2015 Genus founded RISE (Responsible Innovation Sustainability Entrepreneurship), a cross-
institutional group involving members from within the Unit (e.g. Iskandarova – founding member)
and the University of Greenwich. The group comprises researchers who share an interest in
connection with the transformation of society through the promotion and diffusion of sustainable
technologies. Since late 2018, RISE has taken on the role of furthering the sustainable
development agenda within the Unit, with cross-disciplinary research involving staff specialising in
operations management (Zanjirani Farahani) and small business research (Harries).
Members of the unit have participated in the set-up of cross-university research centres: Hill is
the Co-Founder and Director of The Centre for High Performance (based at Oxford University), in
collaboration between senior faculty at the Universities of Kingston, Duke CE, London Business
School and Oxford.


We also have PhD international agreements, to enable the sharing of expertise and experiences,
adding vitality to the PhD programme, as the annual Belk-Kingston-Mercator (BKM) joint doctoral
research workshop, which rotates between the Belk College of Business at University of North
Carolina, Charlotte (USA), KBS and the Mercator School of Management at Duisburg University
(Germany). In 2015, Dr Hansen from Belk contributed to a three-day doctoral workshop on “How to
Craft Good Theory and Logic that gets Research Papers Published and Cited”, hosted by KBS. In
2016, six KBS students visited UNCC; and in 2017, seven visited the Mercator School of
Management. In July 2018, Kingston hosted the workshop, with 15 international participants and 8
from the Unit. In 2019, the workshop returned to UNCC.



                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Most staff in the Unit have research collaborations at an individual level with other national and
international universities, exchanging visits for seminars and study periods. For instance, the
Economics Faculty of Rikkyo University, Tokyo invited van den Berg in Autumn 2017 to deliver a
seminar series to students and academic staff on topics in the history of economics. Dall’Olmo
Riley, Whiley and Imas secured Santander mobility scheme grants and worked with colleagues in
Spain and Chile. Erasmus Staff Mobility funds have enabled research exchanges with partner
Universities (e.g. Dall’Olmo Riley visited Bologna University twice, delivering seminars and guest
lectures; Dr Zeynep Ozsoy Istanbul Bilgi University visited KBS and delivered three seminars).
Table 7 presents examples of the 95 + institutions where staff have held research collaborations;
67 of the 122 output in this submission were co-authored with researchers at these institutions.


          Table 7 – Overview of National and International Research Collaborations
 Region (number of      Examples
 collaborations)
 Asia (10)              University of Hong Kong; Rikkyo University, Tokyo; K.N. Toosi University
                        of Technology, Teheran
 Australia (3)          University of South Australia
 Europe (32)            Aalto University; ALBA Graduate School (Greece); Erasmus Rotterdam;
                        Jönköping (Sweden); Stockholm School of Economics; University of
                        Rome "Tor Vergata"; University of Twente (Netherlands); University of
                        Zaragoza; University of Zurich.
 UK / Ireland (36)      University of Bath; Dublin Institute of Technology; University of
                        Greenwich; University of Kent; Kings’ College London; Lancaster
                        University; LSE; London Business School; LSE; Maynooth University;
                        Open University; Royal Holloway University of London
 South America (5)      University of Buenos Aires (Argentina); Adolfo Ibañez University,
                        Santiago (Chile)
 USA (10)               Black School of Business (Penn State); Duke University; University of
                        North Texas; Pace University, New York


We frequently host foreign academics for study periods and research collaborations. For
instance: Galán-Ladero (University of Extremadura, Spain) visited for 3 months to work with Singh
(former staff), leading to one journal article; Wang from Shenyang Institute of Engineering (China)
visited for 6 months to work with Ibrahim and Noikokyris also leading to one publication; Ettl from
University of Siegen (Germany), and Matejun and Sitkiewicz from Lodz University of Technology
(Poland) visited the SBRC for a month each; Paiva Mack from Adolfo Ibañez University (Chile) and
Stutterheim from Maastricht University (Netherlands) visited the Wellbeing at Work Research
Group and presented at the symposium on Contemporary Ideas in Health and Wellbeing held at
Kingston. Michaud-Trevinal from the Institut Universitaire de Technologie de La Rochelle (France)
visited Harris, resulting in a successful application for funding from AMS/SFM to attend the 2021
AMS Annual Conference in New York.
In addition, we regularly host PhD students from foreign universities who spend study periods at
KBS collecting data for their research and benefit from expert knowledge of our staff, in exchange
for research assistant duties (e.g., de Canio, University of Ferrara, Italy in 2016).


Many of our staff are engaged with scholarly journals, as editors, associate editors, editorial
board members or special issue editors in a variety of disciplines.
Eight staff are either Editors or Associate Editors of Journals: Blackburn is editor-in-chief,
International Small Business Journal, and series Editor of Routledge books on Small Business;
Butler Senior Editor, International Journal of Emerging Markets; Dall’Olmo Riley Associate Editor,
Journal of Marketing Management; Hill Associate Editor, International Journal of Operations and

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Production Management; Kottasz Editor in Chief, International Journal of Nonprofit and Voluntary
Sector Marketing; Smallbone Associate Editor, Journal of Small Business Management; Vallée-
Tourangeau Associate Editor, European Review of Applied Psychology; Zanjirani Farahani
senior editor, Production and Operations Management ; Associate Editor, IMA Journal of
Management Mathematics. Furthermore, staff have served as Guest Editors of Special Issues, for
example: Kalafatis special issue joint editor, Industrial Marketing Management; Vallée-
Tourangeau guest editor, Vaccine (2017); Zanjirani Farahani Managing Guest Editor, European
Journal of Operational Research, special issue “The role of Operational Research in the future
epidemics/ pandemics”.
Our Open Access Champion Gourdon–Kanhukamwe has been Action Editor of the international,
large-scale replication initiative SCORE project and has contributed to the administration,
translation, and data collection of the Psychological Science Accelerator’s COVID-19 large-scale,
open project. Gourdon–Kanhukamwe also contributes regularly to international projects as
replication forecaster, such as this one: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.obhdp.2020.07.002
Staff are frequently invited to review articles for journals in their field of expertise, including the
British Journal of Management; Journal of Business Research; Journal of Business Ethics;
European Accounting Review; European Journal of Marketing; European Journal of Operational
Research. Zanjirani Faharani, Dall’Olmo Riley, Ledden received reviewing excellence awards
from: European Journal of Operational Research; Transportation Research Part E; Journal of
Business Research; Marketing Intelligence and Planning.
We also sit on the Editorial or Review Board of 25 journals, including: Journal of World Business;
International Small Business Journal; Journal of Small Business Management; Transportation
Research Part E: Logistics and Transportation Review; Industrial Marketing Management.
We are often called to participate in national and international grant committees. For example,
Dall’Olmo Riley was Selection Committee Member for Management, Economics and Finance,
Italian Ministry for Universities and Research (May 2018 - March 2019); Favato Peer Reviewer,
Research Council UK; Genus, Panel member, Swedish National Research Funding Council;
Harries Peer review college member, UKRI Future Leader Fellowships; Kitching (former staff) end-
of-award rapporteur, ESRC; reviewer, Polish National Science Centre (2016) and Carnegie Trust,
Scotland (2019); Kutaula reviewer, “Transforming Productivity: Management Practices and
Employee Engagement” (2017-18), ESRC; reviewer, Small Grants Scheme (2017-19), British
Academy of Management; Vecchiato Referee, Italian Ministry for Universities and Research
(2018); Wolfram Reviewer, Social and Behavioural Sciences, German Research Foundation
(2016).
Contributions to Royal Societies and International Councils include: Anagnostopoulos
Hellenic Quality Assurance Agency; Greek Higher Education Council Committee Member, 2011-
current; Blackburn President of the European Council for Small Business and Entrepreneurship
(2015-17); current member of the Executive; member of the Council of the Society for the
Advancement of Management Studies (SAMS) and of the Executive of the ENSR; Treasurer of
SAMS; Genus Co-Chair of ISBE Social and Sustainable Enterprise Special Interest Group;
Kottasz Co-Chair of the Academy of Marketing (AM) Arts, Heritage, Non-profit & Social Marketing
SIG, with responsibility for Non-Profit Marketing. Kutaula represents KU as a member of
Environmental Association for Universities & Colleges; Robinson Co-Chair of AM Marketing
Communications SIG; Sakellariou Elected Board Member, Hellenic Institute of Marketing, 2017-
current. Jury Member, Product and Service Innovation and Customer Insights, Greek Marketing
Excellence Awards (2019); Smallbone was Member, Steering committee for projects on
entrepreneurship policies for social inclusion in Europe, OECD; Van Den Berg President of the
European Society for the History of Economic Thought (ESHET); Vallée-Tourangeau President-
elect Executive Board of the European Association for Decision Making.
All these activities give our staff a chance to lead and shape the debate in their respective
disciplines.




                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Staff members have been awarded fellowships and prizes, and in particular: Favato is Fellow of
The Royal Society of Medicine; Smallbone was Fellow of European Council for Small Business
and Entrepreneurship and of the Wilfred White International Council of Small Business and
Entrepreneurship.
Examples of prizes are:
Annan-Diab (with Pedraz) received the United Nations PRM 2020 Seed Funding Award for
Developing Innovative Pedagogic Approaches and Teaching Practices in Responsible
Management Education. Kitching received Outstanding Paper Award at the Emerald Literati
Network Awards for Excellence for his paper (with Kašperová) ‘Embodying entrepreneurial
identity’, International Journal of Entrepreneurial Behavior and Research, (2014) 20, 5, 438-452.
He also won best paper awards at the ISBE Annual National Conference (2014 and 2015); RENT
XXX Conference (2016), as well as Best Reviewer Award at RENT conferences in 2017 and 2018.
Kutaula received the Carolyn Dexter finalist award at the 79th annual meeting of the Academy of
Management 2019 in Boston, USA, for her co-authored paper on proximity and fair-trade
engagement in a cross-cultural context. She was finalist, Green Gown Awards, UK & Ireland, 2018;
Distinguished Paper award in the doctoral thesis competition of the European Doctoral
Programmes Association in Management and Business Administration (EDAMBA), 2016; Runners-
up prize at the British Academy of Management (BAM) Conference, Newcastle 2016; Best track
paper award at the Fair-Trade International Symposium, 2015, Milan. Noikokyris was awarded the
Young Investigator Training Program Research Prize at the Quantitative Finance Workshop at the
Department of Economics and Finance, University of Rome "Tor Vergata". Vecchiato won the
2016 Emerald Literati Network Awards for Excellence for the paper ‘Strategic planning and
organisational flexibility in turbulent environments’ (Foresight 2015 Vol 17 Issue 3 : 257 – 273).
Wolfram’s (with Junker) paper “The effects of parenthood and gender on follower ratings of LMX
quality” was selected as one of the best submissions to the Academy of Management Conference
(2018).
Staff are frequently invited to deliver Keynote speeches, invited seminars and panel
discussions. Notable examples include: Genus, invited speaker and panel member, EC
workshop on ‘Making the best use of Social Sciences and Humanities in the clean energy
transition’. He was also an invited panel member at the Innovating the UK’s Energy Research
workshop, organised by the UK Energy Research Centre. Imas delivered keynotes at the
University of Buenos Aires; Pontifical Catholic University of Peru, Lima; Catholic University of
Valparaiso, Chile; Dublin Institute of Technology, Ireland; Kitching spoke at the ESRC Seminar on
the Regulation of Work and Employment, and three other keynotes nationally and internationally
and Nurullah at the Amity International Conference (India). Vallée-Tourangeau delivered an
invited guest lecture at the Vaccine Confidence Meeting, Atlanta (USA) co-organised by Emory
University and the US Department of Health and Human Services, as well as invited seminars at
University College London. During the lockdown, Ibrahim was invited to present her work at the
Egyptian Online Seminar Series. This series has featured renowned researchers in accounting and
finance from around the world. Former staff Blackburn, delivered numerous keynotes and invited
presentations at Kingston, for instance the OECD Steering Group technical workshop on guidance
notes and good practice.
Examples of Workshops and international conferences hosted by the Unit include:
International Network of Business and Management Journal workshop (2018), where 10 ISI ranked
journal editors provided mentoring and feedback to 40 early career academics and PGR students
over a two day-period (https://www.inbam-editors.org/kingston-publishing-workshop/); European
Conference on Research Methodology (2016); International Conference on Contemporary
Marketing Issues (2015); International Management Development Association (2016); British
Accounting and Finance Association South East Area Group Annual Conference (2016); Global
Entrepreneurship Development Centre (2016); SBRC conference: Entrepreneurship Policy in
Context - Critical Perspectives (2019); Entrepreneurial Finance for Green Innovative SMEs
conference (2019) and the 2019 Production and Operations Management Society (POMS)
Conference jointly hosted by KBS, Sussex Business School and Cambridge Judge Business
School in Brighton. POMS is the world leading Operations Management society, and the annual


                                                                                         Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
conference is usually held in the United States: this was the first time in the UK. Zanjirani
Farahani was one of the chairs of the event.


Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society
Our staff have also contributed to the wider economy and society by building collaborations
with non-academic research users and beneficiaries in both the private and the public sector.
Long-term research projects carried out in the Unit engage researchers with wide networks of
diverse communities and publics, often in relation to national and international societal priorities,
and interdisciplinary in nature.
The four impact case studies are a good illustration of the scope and variety of the external
beneficiaries from our research. The beneficiaries were from a start-up (Enploy Ltd – Chell) to a
multinational (Pirelli – Vecchiato); from small businesses and households affected by floods
(Harries) to the health of adolescent boys (Favato). In turn, this large variety of beneficiaries
reflects the breadth of the related research. Chell contributed to the growth of a start-up by
designing an online questionnaire based on her research on “entrepreneurial personality”. The
adoption of Vecchiato’s approach to Technology Road Mapping increased effective collaboration
between different departments at Pirelli’s, shortening time to market of new products. In the case of
Harries, his research on the behaviour and actions of small businesses after flooding or in
preparation for it prompted Defra and the Environment Agency to abandon ineffective flood
resilience strategies. Favato’s research on the complexities of human sexual behaviour
demonstrated the limitations of previous research into the cost-effectiveness of HPV vaccination
and benefitted the general public, prompting the Joint Committee of Vaccination and Immunisation
to extend the national HPV vaccination programme to adolescent boys.
Other examples of research or research engagement, frequently on national and international
priorities include:
   •   Kitching’s work with the Association of Independent Professionals and the Self-Employed
       provided an in-depth analysis of the rise of the self-employed and their financial insecurity.
   •   SBRC staff’s (led by Blackburn) expert research to develop a new online policy tool for the
       OECD. The SBRC’s input involved underpinning research and helping to develop questions
       that policy makers could use to assess and elaborate their entrepreneurship policy and
       programmes for youth, women, migrants and the unemployed. This was an initiative of the
       EC Directorate-General for Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion and the OECD Centre
       for Entrepreneurship, SMEs, Regions and Cities.
   •   Hill’s work on leadership in Academy schools across the UK (published in Harvard
       Business Review), which is impacting public policy on improving school performance.
   •   Genus’s work on environmental sustainability, as the UK lead of the ‘living lab’, an
       engagement with third sector organisations part of ENERGISE project. He also organised
       and chaired a workshop for developing permaculture entrepreneurs (London, 2018) and a
       business breakfast briefing on energy efficiency, in association with ISBE and the Carbon
       Trust (KBS, April 2017).
   •   Harries’s collaboration with Durham, Leeds, Sheffield, UEA and UWE universities on
       flooding and small businesses (SESAME) research project funded by the EPSRC
       http://sesame.uk.com/. He worked with Essex University psychology department,
       conducting survey research into the question of how attitudes to climate change and flood
       risk were affected by physical and social proximity to the 2013-14 UK floods.
       Also works with the OECD Local Economic and Employment Development Programme,
       http://www.oecd.org/employment/leed/
   •   Annan Diab’s engagement with sustainable development issues, by: (i) working with Public
       Health Wales (£16,400 Sustainability Development and Research Fund, Politics Unit at
       Kingston); (ii) participating as a core member of “Impact and Advancing Global Health
       Decision Making”, a research project funded by Johnson & Johnson, in collaboration with
       Rutgers University and The Academy of Business in Society; and (iii) her membership of
                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       the UN Global Compact - Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME)
       working group (48 members across the globe) on the Sustainability Mind Set.
   •   Smallbone’s work on Women’s Economic Empowerment through Entrepreneurship,
       analysing the potential for poverty reduction in Brazilian cities through empowering women
       close to the poverty line to either join the labour market for paid employment or to acquire
       the business and management skills to establish and develop a sustainable business.
       (British Council Newton Fund, World Vision: £33,916).
   •   Vallée-Tourangeau on the policy responses to epidemics, by leading a survey on behalf of
       Sanofi Pasteur on the motors of influenza vaccination uptake and advocacy among
       healthcare workers in 6 European countries. A report of this work was published in Vaccine.
       She was identified by the WHO as a world expert on the topic of flu vaccination hesitancy
       among healthcare workers and was invited to attend a WHO Meeting on Identifying and
       Addressing Influenza Vaccine Hesitancy and Demand Issues in Geneva.
Finally, our staff have also delivered training outside of academia. In particular, SBRC staff
delivered online training to microbusinesses on Managing Digital & New Technology, including
online support in relation to the adoption of technology to improve productivity and in response to
COVID-19. The training was part of Leading to Grow, a government-funded project to equip
businesses to grow, innovate and increase productivity through adopting digital technologies. The
Business Basics Fund from the Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy and
Innovate UK funded the training, which is delivered by a consortium of Small Business Charter
accredited business schools. Afrahi manages the project within SBRC/KBS. She has also
contributed to workshops for autistic entrepreneurs.




                                                                                            Page 19
