Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Chester

 Unit of Assessment: 11 Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context
REF2014 was the first time the University of Chester made a return to Computer Science and
Informatics, and coordinated computer science research activities were just beginning at that time.
We are, therefore, one of the youngest Units in the UK to become research active in this area and
this statement is based on progress in the first seven years. 7.6 FTEs are included in the return, and
one research assistant and three other colleagues who have moved on to new positions are also
referenced in this environment statement:

                         Name                                Status
               Nick J. Avis (0.6 FTE)       Professor
               John M. Counsell             Professor
               Thaddeus Eze                 Senior Lecturer
               Nigel W. John                Professor
               Yousaf Khalid                Lecturer
               Helen Southall               Senior Lecturer
               Lee Speakman                 Senior Lecturer
               Richard Stocker              Senior Lecturer
               Thomas Day                   Research Assistant
               Serban R. Pop                Industry
               Panagiotis Ritsos            Senior Lecturer, Bangor University
               Neil Vaughan                 Associate Professor, University of Essex

The Faculty of Science and Engineering was founded in 2013 at Thornton Science Park, a unique
location where industry, academia and commerce are co-located for mutual benefit. It brings
computer science together with a variety of engineering disciplines, as well as mathematics and
physical sciences. The science park hosts 38 companies working in the strategic areas of Energy,
Automotive, Environment, Medical and Advanced Manufacturing. It also at the centre of the Cheshire
Science Corridor’s Enterprise Zone and is a key player in the Northern Powerhouse initiative.

The Faculty is contributing to the University’s strategic aim to further develop its Science,
Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) provision, broaden the curriculum and extend
the range of its activities into engineering and the physical sciences. Key to its success was the
award of a HEFCE/STEM Capital grant of £7.1M, of which approximately £1.2M was used, together
with the acquisition of legacy equipment from Shell Research Ltd (the former operators of the site),
to equip laboratories with near state-of-the-art and industry standard facilities. Development of the
science park has subsequently benefitted from European, local enterprise and other funding to a
total of >£30M. Computer Science is an integral part of the Faculty’s activities and is fully aligned
with the strategic areas of the science park.

The University of Chester Corporate Plan – Vision 2015-2020 – expresses an explicit commitment
to supporting an expanding and innovative University research environment that ensures high quality
research and innovative practices that help influence the development and improvement of society.
The strategy of our Computer Science Unit is fully aligned with this aspiration, as is evidenced by
the outputs from the activities described below.

1.2 Structure
An ongoing effort has been made since 2015 to provide an effective research structure for computer
science. Research is focussed into four main themes: Medical Visualization and Computational
Modelling are the primary areas, with developing activities in Cybersecurity and User Experience

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Design. The themes benefit from the proximity of companies on the science park for collaboration
and industrial participation, and from the cross-fertilization of ideas and expertise from the associated
multidisciplinary colleagues within the Faculty and wider University. A Director of Research provides
oversight across these different themes, and progress and plans are discussed with all staff at
departmental meetings held across the academic year. The Director of Research is also a member
of the Faculty Research Committee and the University’s Research and Knowledge Transfer
Committee.

The Department of Computer Science was a separate department at the University between 2014
and 2019. In 2019 it merged with the Department of Electronics and Electrical Engineering to provide
a greater critical mass of established researchers and to encourage more cross-disciplinary work.
The new department remains a core component of the Faculty of Science and Engineering.

1.3 Research and Impact Strategy
The primary aim reported in REF 2014 was to develop a research centre with critical mass, and with
at least two areas of computer science research focus with recognised outputs of international
excellence. This would also leverage the world-leading facilities at the Thornton Science Park to
develop strong interactions with industrial and commercial users. This has been achieved, supported
by the investment made in hiring research active staff and installing new facilities for computer
science topics, including a research laboratory for virtual and augmented reality, and a User
Experience Lab. We now have four active research streams as we continue to develop an applied
research focus with staff who demonstrate enthusiasm and vitality.

The research and impact strategy of the Unit is closely aligned with all four of the Core Themes listed
in the Institutional-Level Environment Statement and is focussed on building strength and depth
within our research whilst reflecting the institutional values. We recognise that the Unit is relatively
small, and therefore strategic aims will be achieved through collaboration and interdisciplinary
working across the University, and externally both nationally and internationally. Research informed
teaching is a natural output from all of our activities.

i. Medical Simulation and Visualization (John, Day, Vaughan, Ritsos, Pop)
John and Ritsos were recruited in 2015 from Bangor University, together with Pop who came from
Oxford Brookes University after previously being at Bangor. They came with established track
records to fast track development of this research theme at Chester. From 2017-2020, the Unit was
reinforced with Vaughan, a Research Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering. Day completed
a PhD at Chester before being appointed as a Research Assistant in the Unit. The focus has been
on investigating novel uses of virtual and augmented reality with application in a variety of healthcare
scenarios. We have been funded by Innovate UK on a collaborative project with industry and the
NHS to use virtual reality (VR) for the cognitive rehabilitation of stroke survivors. During the REF2021
assessment period, eighteen publications in leading international journals (including three IEEE
Transactions papers) have been produced, and fourteen publications in refereed conference
proceedings. A review paper in Computer Graphics Forum on “Appearance Modelling of Living
Human Tissues” has been acknowledged by the publisher as being in the top 10% of most
downloaded papers from the journal between January 2018 and December 2019 and so generating
immediate impact. Our work with paramedics was also highlighted by Universities UK’s MadeAtUni
campaign to celebrate the projects that bring to life the impact of universities on families,
communities and wider society. We were selected as one of the Nation’s Lifesavers whose work is
saving lives and making a life-changing difference to our health and wellbeing. Also, of note is that
Vaughan won the 2019 Digital Innovator of the Year Award at the annual Healthcare Education and
Training Awards, run by Health Education England. Our ongoing strategy is to develop practical
solutions based on computer graphics and haptics related research that benefit both healthcare
providers and patients.


ii. Computational Modelling (Counsell, Khalid, Pop, Ritsos, John, Avis)
Counsell and Khalid are leading research into modelling and designing software tools for Smart
Multi-vector Energy Systems that have been applied on a global scale. This includes fundamental
                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
scientific research in modelling the physics of heat, power and nonlinear control algorithms that has
been published in learned society journals and conferences and applied to industrial case studies in
partnership with leading international companies. Past EPSRC and InnovateUK grants have
involved collaboration with University of Liverpool and Newcastle University, and recent collaboration
with the University of Durham has resulted in an EPSRC grant to model and simulate a hybrid
thermochemical-compression seasonal solar energy storage and heat pump system for homes and
local energy systems using heat networks. The research will involve the use of inverse dynamics
algorithms for high-speed computational modelling and visualization of the systems’ multiple energy
vectors such as thermal comfort, power utilisation, heat utilisation, CO2 emissions, primary energy
factors etc. Furthermore, the research uses a Meta-modelling approach to structure object-oriented
approaches to energy system modelling, drawing on Counsell’s research dating back to the mid
1990s.

Data Analytics and its application to Big Data is a fast-growing area of research worldwide. Ritsos
and John have developed a new framework that enables immersive visual analytics experiences.
Avis has also contributed the computational analysis of social media data to detect tension within
on-line communities.

Pop has been engaged in computational modelling in collaboration with the University of Liverpool,
and he developed a model of drug transport from silicone oil across the outer blood–retinal barrier.
Such work is contributing to the creation of new drug delivery systems. Pop has also been engaged
in an international collaboration with Babeş-Bolyai University in Romania to model thermophoretic
transport of small particles through the convection in a differentially heated square cavity with a wavy
wall.

We have satisfied a REF2014 goal by achieving outputs of international excellence in computational
modelling, including three publications in IEEE journals as well as other high impact journals. Our
ongoing strategy is to continue to impact on Smart Energy Systems and to integrate this work with
the developing research on visual analytics.

iii. Cybersecurity (Eze, Speakman, Avis)
Speakman was recruited from GCHQ and Eze accepted his first academic post at Chester following
a successful PhD at the University of Greenwich. Our research interests are in software and system
protection methods, including in hypervisors & virtualisation, containers, firmware exploitation, low-
level system and firmware monitors, and underpinning intelligent or autonomic Intrusion Detection
Systems (IDSs), behavioural models, as well as Malware Analyses and Penetration Testing,
Trustworthy Autonomic Systems, Trusted Autonomic Architectures, and Autonomic Interoperability.
We work cross-faculty to bring in the wider areas of cyber security in law, psychology, sociology,
business and management, and other aspects, in a dynamic and pervasively connected world. Our
ongoing strategy is focussed on three research topics, each supported by a PhD student. The first
explores the challenges of existing intrusion detection and protection systems (IDPS) and is building
a trustworthy AI-based IDPS that addresses known issues such as false positives/negatives. The
second focuses on using techniques such as control flow integrity to address control flow hijacking
vulnerabilities in software. The third seeks to develop automation solutions in malware analysis that
are capable of addressing some anti-forensic methods like obfuscation techniques used by malware
developers. We will publish in these areas and seek at least two successful grant applications in the
next REF period.

iv. User Experience Design (Southall, Stocker, John)
Currently, there are many approaches to software design which facilitate user involvement and
adequate software testing (including user-centred, lean, and agile approaches) but more recently,
we’ve seen contemporary problem-solving techniques emerge such as the 5-day design sprint,
which can be used to galvanise software teams and create more effective software products.
However, the original 5-day duration remains a barrier to adoption for organisations, and there is a
need to compress and refine this process to offer a more manageable and less intimidating schedule,
especially for less complex problems. To address this barrier, we have been looking at ways to
condense the process and apply a shortened version to software development projects and tested

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
out the methodology in organisations such as the BBC. Current applications in virtual heritage and
serious games design are being developed. We have also been involved in collaborations with
Liverpool University addressing the reliability of autonomous systems for Astronaut-Rover teams
using the formal verification of models in the Brahms multi-agent modelling language. Our ongoing
strategy is to design standards-based digital solutions through human-centred design and
multidisciplinary approaches to software development. These will have immediate impact in many
different commercial and academic settings.

1.4 Future Plans and Aspirations
The university’s ‘Citizen Student’ strategy seeks to equip its staff and students with the skills and
knowledge to be ‘confident world citizens’. Through its vision for ‘teaching-led research’, the
institution aims to ensure that research is embedded in all aspects of University life, and that all
students are encouraged to engage in research activities and develop research skills. Alongside this,
and in support of the research agenda for the next five years, the University will establish named
research clusters with which staff and students will identify. Computer science research will be an
important element in these new clusters.

Throughout this REF period, research activities have been based at Thornton Science Park but by
summer 2021 some activities will also take part at Exton Park in the middle of Chester. This move
will additionally provide the opportunity to establish more multi-disciplinary research collaborations
within the University. For example, we are now starting to engage in a new Health and Well Being
research cluster that will be the catalyst for interdisciplinary research initiatives. It also provides a
programme of cross-Faculty monthly seminars that offers a forum for collaboration. Also, links are
growing with the Department of History and Archaeology, and a joint internal grant award has been
won to create a package of computing resources to be marketed to the Museum, Heritage and
Education sectors, with further joint grant submissions being made to the AHRC.

The overall future strategic aim within Computer Science is to build on and strengthen its core
activities in applied research through collaboration within and beyond Chester with ambitious
partnerships forged with world leading organisations. We will strive for international impact in the
area of cybersecurity with close collaborations with UK police forces. Our first journal publications in
user experience design for serious games and virtual heritage applications will also be a goal for
these developing areas of research at Chester. Finally, we will consolidate our track record in both
Medical Simulation and Computational Modelling and target a significant increase in grant awards
on collaborative projects with the NHS and industrial organisations totalling at least £3 million. We
have established a thriving research community during this REF period and will continue to support
and develop our existing staff and PGR activities.

 2. People
The unit is relatively small and therefore staff are recruited to strengthen and consolidate current
areas of strategic importance. Most of the 7.6 FTEs in this return have either joined the University or
become independent researchers since 2014. The four FTEs returned in REF 2014 have changed
roles (Avis was Pro Vice Chancellor for Research at the University), retired or moved to new
employment. The emphasis is on alignment with Unit priorities as outlined above, and with the
strategy of the Faculty of Science and Engineering. Staff are cross-disciplinary and come from a
variety of backgrounds thus enriching the experience and diversity of the Unit. Staff development is
partly through self-development, for example all staff have participated in conferences during this
REF period. Some staff are active in journal/grant reviewing and editorship (see section 4.2), and
early career researchers are encouraged and supported to take on these responsibilities.
Membership of professional organisations is also encouraged and we currently support the IEEE,
IET and the Eurographics Association. Staff also make use of the University’s comprehensive
professional development schemes, including supervision of PGR students and in grant writing and
management. Time is made available via the Workload Allocation Management System for these
activities, and their value to the Institution is recognised. The introduction of peer mentoring has
given staff the opportunity to develop their own skills whilst supporting and nurturing those of their
colleagues. Career progress of research-active staff is considered as part of the annual Personal
Development Review (PDR) process. The Unit and its contributing departments are keen to

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
recognise and reward excellence in all fields of academic endeavour, including research.
Consequently, promotion is based on both research record and contribution to the wider University
community. Eze was promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2018.

In 2018, an annual Research and Knowledge Transfer Festival was established at the University.
This encourages researchers from all departments to collaborate and exchange ideas whilst
participating in a ten-day programme of events that covers promotion of research activities, support
with research applications, and provision of insight from eminent external keynote speakers. As a
part of the festival, the Unit staff have delivered sessions that include Building a Departmental
Research Culture, and How Serious Games and Virtual Reality Can Strengthen Your Research.

The University’s REF code of practice has been followed to identify staff and outputs. Selection of
outputs has been primarily based on self-assessment of quality by their authors. To enable
statistically significant monitoring against equality and diversity objectives, the data for Computer
Science and Informatics is combined for analysis with other cognate units.

2.1 Well-Being and Diversity
The well-being and development of its staff is central to the Mission, Vision and Foundational Values
of the University. The Faculty and the Unit encourage and promote equality and diversity. We are
proud that the University has successfully renewed its Athena Swan Bronze award, holds the HR
Excellence in Research award, and in 2014 was one of only 5 HEIs to be awarded the Gender
Charter Mark Bronze award. We have adopted a policy whereby all staff recruitment interview panels
have at least one female member, where possible. Multi-faith spaces, quiet rooms and quiet gardens
are available at the Thornton and other University sites, as are gender-neutral toilets and parent-
and-baby rooms.

The Thornton Science Park offers good access to people with disabilities. Reserved car parking
spaces are close to the entrance of most buildings and there is also a wheelchair accessible minibus
that operates a shuttle service between the different University sites. Many doors into buildings will
open at the touch of a button located at wheelchair height, and there are lifts in the buildings where
access is needed to a second floor. We have also incorporated some aspects of supporting
disabilities into our research, and have developed a virtual environment that allows people to practice
driving a powered wheelchair. Across the University, disabled staff are invited to join the Disabled
Staff Support Group. This group discusses and finds possible solutions to the various issues relating
to disability and making a positive impact to the working lives of disabled staff. For example, they
have put together a set of leaflets on a number of disabilities which contain support information for
managers and staff, addressing autism, dyslexia, epilepsy, hearing impairment, Meniere’s disease,
mobility, and visual impairment. There is a dedicated quiet room at Thornton Science Park designed
specifically for people with Asperger’s syndrome and other autism spectrum disorders. The
University also employs a dedicated Assistive Technologist who provides support on the use of
assistive technology. We have been awarded the Disability Two Ticks Symbol by Jobcentre Plus,
which acknowledges those employers who make certain commitments regarding the recruitment,
training, retention, consultation and awareness of disabled people and disability in general.

The University prides itself on its inclusive policies. It has established a support network for staff who
identify as Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual or Trans, and holds the Navajo Merseyside and Cheshire
LGBTIQA Charter Mark, an indication of good practice, commitment and knowledge of the specific
needs, issues and barriers experienced by this community.

The University holds an annual Diversity Festival that is also open to members of the public, and
provides a focus through which the University actively promotes, challenges and develops an
understanding of equality, diversity and multiculturalism. Throughout the year staff can participate
on several different equality and diversity discussion boards. The University's Equality Forum takes
place on a quarterly basis and all staff are welcome to attend.

13% of staff included in the Computer Science and Informatics Unit are female (22% of eligible staff
are female across the faculty), and 26% identify as BAME (27% of eligible staff are in this category

                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
within the faculty). No staff in the return have reported a disability. We are conscious of the need to
attract more diverse staff into the unit and the above listed initiatives will help to achieve this. We
also draw attention to the impact of our part time doctoral programme on widening participation and
supporting a diverse student population.

2.2 PGR Community
The Unit hosts a small but active PGR community. These students are supported by a first and
second supervisor, with the Faculty Senior PGR tutor (was John, 2016-19) maintaining oversight of
their well-being and progress. All PGR students are subject to a rigorous supervision and monitoring
regime which includes 6-monthly progress reviews, and an MPhil to PhD progression review at 12-
18 months. We are striving to attract a higher proportion of female participants in our postgraduate
research (and undergraduate) student body. This is supported through a continuing series of public
lectures by well-known female science representatives, for example celebrating International
Women’s Day, our traditional Christmas lecture series, the RAF, and school events. These events
are organised by the faculty’s OFFA-funded STEM Outreach Coordinator.

PGR students participate in the annual Institutional PGR Conference and also the Research Festival.
All Thornton-based PGR students take part in an active seminar series and are required to present
their work at the end of the project (for MRes and PhD), and on transfer from MPhil to PhD
registration. The seminar series also includes presentations from more senior members of staff, and
external speakers including those from commercial companies based on the Science Park.

During this REF-period, the Unit has awarded five students with their PhD degrees, and a further six
students are currently working towards this outcome. The PhD graduates have taken up posts in
industry (e.g. BBC) or are now in research assistant posts (at Chester, York and Bangor). In the REF
2014 submission there were zero research degrees awarded and so we have made good progress
in providing research opportunities for students. Further steps to increase the PGR population
include Faculty fee-waiver arrangements.

31% of the outputs included in this return have involved work carried out by PGR students. One
output is the result of an undergraduate project.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income Summary

 John Counsell         RISE                            Innovate UK                        £90,403
 John Counsell         Heat-STRESS                     EPSRC                             £201,167
 Neil Vaughan          Research Fellowship             Royal Academy Engineering          £29,769
 Nigel John            VIRTUE                          Innovate UK                       £157,665
 Nigel John            ParaVR                          Welsh Ambulance Service             £6,250
                                                                                         £485,253

This is a significant improvement from REF 2014 where the total research income reported was
negligible (£4,742).

Infrastructure and Facilities
The Unit is well equipped to support research in the areas of strategic focus. Specialised facilities
are briefly summarised below:

Virtual Reality Laboratory (Holodeck):
    • Including the latest head mounted displays, stereoscopic displays, haptics hardware, tracking
        technologies, and other specialised equipment (such as a powered wheelchair).
User Experience Lab



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •    This an ideation and problem-solving space, which enables effective and efficient
        multidisciplinary collaboration. Typically, users work in teams of between 5-7 working on
        solving business problems using technological solutions, through ‘lean' human-centred
        approaches to software development.
DOMESTIC: Domestic Energy Systems & Technologies Incubator
A Test Facility for the demonstration of domestic technologies and design methodologies:
    • Indoor Air quality experimentation
    • Metering, monitoring, modelling
    • Intelligent Control and integration of heating systems
    • Application to Micro Building design Concept e.g. net zero office
Informatics Centre
    • A commercial entity within the department consisting of four software engineers that produce
        bespoke digital products.
High Performance Computing
    • Computational modelling is carried out in part using the University’s high-performance
        computing cluster, which consists of a combined processor power of 312 cores based on
        Intel Xeon E5 series @ 2.5GHz CPUs with up to 530 GB of memory in total. Cores are divided
        amongst 17 computer nodes linked via high-speed infiniband interconnects.
These specialist facilities are fundamental to supporting the impact of our research activities,
providing suitable environments for the development of case studies, as well as showcasing
research outputs to new collaborators and the general public.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
The Unit strongly believes in the power of networks and collaboration to build and strengthen
research impact and reach. Our collaborations are cross-disciplinary, multi-national, and focussed
around our key themes. We work with Universities, research institutions, local authorities, the
National Health Service, the national police force and commercial enterprises to maximise the
contribution of our skills and expertise for economic and social good.

4.2 Contributions to the Research Base
Staff within the unit demonstrate commitment to the research base through participation in
professional bodies, learned societies, journal editorial board membership, and conference
organisation. John is a Churchill Fellow, a Fellow of Eurographics and a Fellow of the Learned
Society of Wales; Counsell is a member of the IET; Eze is a member of the IEEE; and Southall is
a member of the Institute of Physics – emphasising our cross-disciplinary approach. All members of
staff exercise good research community citizenship through the peer-review process for a wide range
of scientific journals and grant awarding bodies. John has been an Associate Editor of the Computer
Graphics Forum. Both Avis and John are members of the EPSRC Peer Review College and John
is also a member of the Sêr Cymru Prioritisation Panel for research funding issued by the Welsh
Government. In this assessment period the Unit has hosted the following national and international
conferences related to computer science topics:
    • Eurographics workshop on Visual Computing in Medicine and Biology 2015
    • Cyberworlds 2017
    • IEEE UK & Ireland YP Postgraduate STEM Research Symposium 2018
    • European Conference on Cyber Warfare and Security 2020

These have provided staff with both experience of organising the conference and excellent
networking opportunities. John is also an ACM Distinguished Speaker and is funded by the ACM to
act as an international guest speaker.

4.3 Contributions to the Economy
The work on modelling and designing software tools for Smart Multi-vector Energy Systems has to
date had a commercial impact in excess of £35 Million within this REF period as a result of
collaborations with BRE, Arup, Leep Utilities, URENCO, Eastbourne Homes, EDF Energy, Q-

                                                                                           Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Sphere, Fujitsu, Advanced Control Partnerships (ACP), AXSYM, M&I Materials, EA Technology and
ISIM International. The research is disseminated in an annual workshop – Artificial Intelligent
Multivector Energy Systems (AIMES) – to over 100 industrial companies, local authorities and
housing associations. This is led by Chester in partnership with Durham University and the University
of Manchester.

Recent projects delivered by the Informatics Centre include the intranet for a local hospital, a
psychometric assessment system, and a tool for creating digital treasure hunts for businesses,
educational institutions, charities, and private events. The Informatics Centre also provides a conduit
for our academics to use their expertise on commercial projects.

4.4 Contributions to Society
The Medical Graphics team have strong links with several NHS trusts and aim to deploy their
research in hospital environments for the benefit of clinical professionals and their patients. For
example, we have been running a trial at the Countess of Chester Hospital NHS Foundation Trust
to assess the effectiveness of using virtual reality for the cognitive rehabilitation of stroke survivors.
We are also working closely with a specialist Gastrointestinal surgeon on developing new training
environments. Another example is our collaboration with the Welsh Ambulance NHS Trust on skills
maintenance and training in virtual reality. This has resulted in a tool for CPR training that has been
demonstrated at local schools as a part of the national Restart a Heart Day organised by the
Resuscitation Council UK.

The department has continuing research collaborations with local police forces (e.g the Cheshire
Constabulary). It was conceived to support the ongoing work being conducted within UK Policing in
order to inform best practice and identify risks and opportunities to build upon the current strategic
response to the cyber threat. The major focus of this research is cyber awareness and education. It
seeks to explore and improve the way in which police forces can build their capabilities around
cybercrime prevention and investigation by identifying issues which may be acting as a blocker. It
also hopes to deliver the required evidence base for cybercrime training for frontline police officers
and staff in UK police forces

4.5 Former Staff
The vitality of the Unit is further evidenced by a healthy turnover of staff recruited during this REF
period as they progress their careers: Ritsos took up a post as Senior Lecturer at Bangor University
(2017), Pop moved back to his native Romania (2019) and now holds a position in industry
(Nehemiah Security), and Vaughan has moved to the University of Exeter as an Associate Professor
of AI and Data Science (2020).




                                                                                                  Page 8
