Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Westminster

 Unit of Assessment: 32 Art and Design: History, Theory and Practice

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context

 Art and design research is situated in the Centre for Research and Education in Arts and Media
 (CREAM). Established in 2002, CREAM is a world-leading centre and pioneer in practice-based,
 critical, theoretical and historical research in the broad areas of art, creative and interdisciplinary
 practice. Co-directors Professors Ingawanij (Cinematic Arts) and White (Interdisciplinary-
 Art/Science) oversee CREAM’s four research areas: Film and Media; Art and Society;
 Photography; Fashion and Music, working with lead researchers in each area to shape our
 strategic direction and ensure sustainability of excellence. The Co-directors implement day-to-
 day research management and liaise with the Head of the School of Arts (Professor Sporton)
 on staff research responsibility and the administration of QR funds. CREAM staff integrate their
 research activities into teaching and PhD supervision across areas of art, film, media, television,
 creative practice, photography, music, fashion, visual culture, with an emphasis on fostering
 interdisciplinary intersections. Our researchers are largely based in the Westminster School of
 Arts (Harrow Campus). A small number are in the School of Media and Communication (Harrow
 Campus) and School of Humanities (Central London).

 CREAM’s success in REF2014, with a GPA of 3.36 (45% 4* and 46% 3*) and with c.88% QR
 returned to the unit, has enabled us to further strengthen our research culture and endowed us
 with the resources to fulfil the key strategic aims articulated in our previous submission. We
 pledged to: ensure the sustainability of current areas of research excellence; prioritise further
 internationalisation of our research base; cultivate growth in strategic areas with strong potential
 for public engagement and impact; enhance interdisciplinary research initiatives; run a dynamic
 interdisciplinary Doctoral Programme; and increase external funding streams. These goals have
 been achieved through effective measures to build researchers’ capacity at all career levels;
 research catalyst and support schemes; infrastructure building; dynamic and evolving
 alignments of research groups and initiatives; and strategic new appointments of established
 and emerging academics across our research areas.

 CREAM has grown to 42 (full-time and fractional) staff with significant responsibility for research
 (from 25 FTE in 2014 to 33.3 FTE now). Effective mentoring and feedback mechanisms for
 external funding applications, bolstered by sabbatical leave, have resulted in significantly
 increased research council income (£1,805,295, see REF4b, increased from £1,169K in 2014).
 Our researchers have won major awards from the AHRC, as well as from the British Academy
 and Leverhulme Trust, achieved in the context of a far more challenging landscape. Our
 researchers also received significant non-reportable funding from arts and culture bodies, such
 as the Arts Council of England, Royal Shakespeare Company, and Sundance Film Festival for
 their projects (approx. £9m). Our major research projects are delivering on the agenda to
 internationalise research scope and reach, de-westernise research methods and concepts, and
 highlight colonial legacies and entanglements in contemporary culture. Our staff sustain
 significant partnerships with major biennials, film festivals, museums, and with grassroots artistic
 research and practice organisations and groups in the global south. CREAM staff are
 internationally and nationally recognised for their contributions to research and culture, through
 such prestigious awards as an OBE, MacArthur Fellowship, Sharjah Biennial Prize, Royal
 Photographic Society Education Award, and nominations for Oscar and BAFTA awards, among
 others.

 CREAM’s distinctive Doctoral Programme has grown (from 49 in 2014 to 55), with increased
 PhD completions in this census period (from 22 in 2014 to 43, an average increase of Doctoral
 completions from 4.8 to 6.14 per annum). PhD studentships, to which international candidates
 are eligible to apply, have been made possible through internal CREAM and Quintin Hogg Trust

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funding. In 2018, Westminster (UoW) was invited to join the Techné 2 AHRC DTP bid, with
 reference to CREAM’s excellence in practice-based research. Since 2019, Techné has funded
 2-3 Home and EU researchers each year on CREAM’s Doctoral Programme.

 With UoW’s investment in research and public engagement infrastructure, CREAM researchers
 can conduct and disseminate their research through high-quality venues and platforms. The
 historically important Regent Street Cinema (est. 1896) re-opened in 2015 after £6.1M
 renovation. Our research exhibition space Ambika P3 (14000 sq ft) was the 2017 winner of the
 Academic Venue Award ‘Best Exhibition Space.’ New investment in the virtual research
 environment (VRE) is key to our strategic priority in knowledge sharing, and CREAM is working
 with Haplo Research Information Systems to facilitate new products for online open access
 research portfolios (see REF5a).

 CREAM’s longstanding vision is to provide leadership in practice-based, theoretical, critical and
 historical inquiry in art, creative, and interdisciplinary practice. Our research makes a difference
 at a global scale, and our impact results from effective partnerships and dissemination across
 cultural and societal networks, utilising creative means of public engagement. To continue
 delivering on this vision, our strategic aims for the next five years are: to foster collective
 capacities and create well-embedded mechanisms to sustain the excellence of our research
 culture; to grow international and interdisciplinary research initiatives from our core areas, doing
 so in ways capable of addressing timely and urgent cultural and societal issues on global,
 national, translocal and planetary scales; to continue to generate significant external research
 income streams; to nurture the next generation of leading art, interdisciplinary and creative
 practice researchers through early career researcher support and mentoring initiatives and
 through our dynamic CREAM Doctoral Programme.

 1.2 Structure

 We have recalibrated our four research areas in order to better reflect new developments and
 capacities. Effective mentoring and succession planning have resulted in the promotion of a
 group of researchers to senior positions who are now shaping the themes and directions of
 CREAM’s research, alongside the recruitment of new staff across all areas and levels in this
 census period. This strategic calibration strengthens our established research cultures in
 photography, film and experimental media, significantly enhancing their internationalisation and
 new thematic developments. In visual arts, the grouping enables a stronger connection with
 interdisciplinary and socially-engaged practices. Our strategic support for researchers in music
 and fashion, previously grouped with visual arts, led to the establishment of the Black Music
 Research Unit and Westminster Menswear Archive. As with the co-directorship of CREAM, all
 areas are co-ordinated by two members of staff, to engender a collective research culture and to
 provide scope for skills exchange and capacity building of future leaders.

 Film and Media (grown from Film and Experimental Media groups)
 Co-ordinators: Ingawanij and Goddard

 Film and experimental media at CREAM leads the field for practice-led, de-westernised,
 postcolonial, theoretical, historical, and interdisciplinary research. Our established themes in this
 area encompass experimental documentary practices and theories; artists’ moving image, and
 their curatorial practices, theories and histories; films and moving images of the global south.
 The growth of research in this area through new staff appointments has enabled development of
 interdisciplinary research themes in transmedia storytelling and aesthetics; media archaeology;
 aesthetics and histories of intermedial forms.
 UoA32 Members: Barnwell, Dawood, Fusari, Gaudenzi, Goddard, Hogg, Ingawanij, Koksal,
 Maziere, McNicholas Smith, Oppenheimer, Orlow, Sprio, Tabrizian, Thomas, Thorburn,
 Wyver




                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Photography
 Co-ordinators: Bate and Shinkle

 Photography’s pioneering history at the UOW helped establish this influential and internationally
 renowned CREAM research area as a node of excellence in the study of the photographic
 images, histories, and practices. Research is set within the distinct but overlapping networks of
 visual arts, culture, technological and media practice. Research themes include the history of
 photography in cultural and interdisciplinary contexts of postcoloniality, architecture, travel,
 fashion, histories of modernity, and theoretical discourse, leading to important work engaged in
 the expanded fields of contemporary art, social media, digital imaging, politics and big data
 networks.
 UoA32 Members: Bate, Campany, Dominici, Kempadoo, Matheson, Moore, Shinkle, Soutter

 Art and Society (grown from Visual Arts group)
 Co-ordinators: Twomey and Reynolds

 This research area draws on the legacy of Harrow School of Art’s ground-breaking Ceramics
 department. Its themes are shaped by the group’s long-standing reputation for critical media
 practice across arts/science, socially-engaged practices, and interdisciplinary and expanded
 fields of artistic inquiry. New staff appointments in this census period have enhanced its
 established themes with feminist concerns. Research themes include: interrogation of museums
 and social practice; crafts/ceramics industry; museum and curatorial/collection policy; digital
 intersections in architecture and art; creativity, technology and interdisciplinary research across
 art and sciences - from the environmental/ecological sciences to biomedical/clinical research.
 UoA32 Members: Craighead, Cumberland, Cummings, Marsh, Peters, Pucill, Ride,
 Reynolds, Sporton, Twomey, Wright, White

 Music and Fashion
 Co-ordinators: Thompson and Groves

 Westminster School of Arts has long-established departments in both Fashion and Music, whose
 international research reflects the professional and creative knowledge required by these
 sectors. In music, lead researchers developing this emerging research area are key figures in
 their field. Their work explores the historical and contemporary impact of Jamaican music on
 British culture; draws on significant episodes in black lives and histories; and highlights
 historically marginalised black female cultural and artistic figures. In fashion, UoW is investing in
 resources for historical research and an archival initiative, building a significant collection of
 men’s garments to enable CREAM to lead the way in researching the overlooked area of
 menswear.
 UoA32 members: Christodoulou, Groves, Hermes, Riley, Thompson

 1.3 Strategy

 CREAM’s research strategy, as stated above, is underpinned by the following enabling
 principles:

 (a) creating excellent, world-leading research outputs by: supporting researchers with
 dedicated hours for research; running a mentorship scheme; holding annual one-to-one
 appraisal meetings; funding exhibitions and performances and attendance at academic
 conferences internationally; and advancing the next generation of art, media and design
 researchers through a large and active PhD programme.

 (b) generating significant research income from a wide variety of sources by: offering
 focused and structured guidance for the development of grant proposals; instituting a rigorous
 process of internal peer reviewing for draft applications; organising grant writing workshops for
 junior and senior researchers; and liaising closely with our Research Development Partner to
 undertake horizon scanning and support for all aspects of bids.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (c) generating impact for our research internationally by: investing in socially-engaged
 projects across our research areas, and our emergent research initiatives, particularly the
 Ceramics Research Centre, the Menswear Archive, the Black Music Research Unit and the
 Deep Field Project; sustaining an online presence on different platforms, including the CREAM
 web platform (http://www.cream.ac.uk); organising multiple forms of public engagement activities
 internationally and nationally, using UoW venues Ambika P3 Gallery (Marylebone), London
 Gallery West (Harrow), and Regent Street Cinema, and partner venues; supporting CREAM
 members’ collaboration with the cultural and creative sectors internationally.

 1.4 Interdisciplinary research

 CREAM has delivered on our strategic commitment to develop our profile in interdisciplinary
 research. In 2016, White was appointed as a UoW Interdisciplinary Professor of Art/Science,
 working with Corby (-2018) to lead on projects with other Schools and external partners around
 art-science collaboration, and shaping CREAM’s interdisciplinary strategy. This entails:
 resourcing independent interdisciplinary research practices; developing collaborative models for
 interdisciplinarity; and establishing world-leading partnerships with interdisciplinary institutions,
 together leading to new insights, methodological innovation and societal/cultural impact.

 Interdisciplinary research projects supported by CREAM have led to major exhibitions and
 events in this census period. These include: Dawood’s multi-venue Leviathan Cycle, involving
 leading scientific institutions in Amsterdam, Plymouth, Venice; Orlow’s international research
 project based in South Africa, Theatrum Botanicum, with partners including Wellcome Trust;
 Maziere’s collaboration with Cambridge University funded by the Wellcome Trust, Casebooks:
 Art and a Medical Archive; Corby’s Codex and Minima Maxima, AHRC-funded projects with
 partnerships with multiple institutions including Scott Polar Institute; and Marsh’s forthcoming La
 Biennale Special Project (COVID postponed to May 2021), in collaboration with a colleague in
 Architecture and the V&A.

 A major driver of CREAM’s interdisciplinary strategy is The Deep Field Project, a research studio
 led by White. This was established through a formal agreement between CREAM and world-
 leading art and science agency Arts Catalyst, following the appointment of founder Dr Nicola
 Triscott (now CEO of FACT Liverpool 2018-) as Principal Research Fellow (2017-18). This
 partnership led to a new Art/Science Resource Centre at Harrow Campus; the interdisciplinary
 research project Test Sites in Poole Harbour, led by White; two international workshops; and the
 Planetary Perspectives Assembly (2018) and Extraction Matters Assembly (2019). Deep Field
 now has eight associated PhDs and has established international research partnerships and
 projects with Target Studio for Creative Collaboration (University of Minnesota), Zone2source
 (Amsterdam), and Collaborative Research Center SFB1258 at the Technical University of
 Munich, amongst others. Another development is CREAM’s appointment of Stefanie Hessler
 (Director/Curator, Kunsthalle Trondheim, Norway) as Visiting Research Fellow with an
 interdisciplinary focus, in order to collaborate on developing exhibitions with Deep Field
 scheduled for Ambika P3 in 2022-23.

 CREAM has established the Ecological Futurisms collective as part of our strategic aim of
 shaping interdisciplinary research. Founded by a group of senior CREAM researchers
 (Ingawanij, Kempadoo, Maziere and White), this long-term project explores the capacity of
 artistic research for addressing key ecological and political questions of our time. Funded by
 UoW’s Research Communities initiative (see below) to foster interdisciplinary research, the
 project is conceived on a collaborative research model involving CREAM staff, PhD researchers,
 and external networks. Among the themes being explored are intersections between advanced
 techno-deterministic visions of the future and extractive practices in the Caribbean, and socially
 engaged art and environmental politics in South East Asia. Elsewhere across UoW, White also
 leads on other interdisciplinary projects, including a project for the Central Pavillion at 17th
 Venice Biennale of Architecture (COVID postponed to 2021) developed with the EU-funded
 Monsoon Assemblages project in UoW’s School of Architecture and Cities.

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.5 Impact Strategy

 CREAM’s impact strategy is based on our understanding that public engagement is intrinsic to
 the practice-based and highly collaborative nature of our research. Our researchers explore
 societal, cultural, ethical and political issues with global relevance through artistic and creative
 methods of knowledge creation. We enhance the reach and potential impact of the insights
 generated by our research through cultivating partnerships within arts, cultural, and socially
 engaged networks, operating across different scales and localities in order to connect with
 relevant stakeholders. We disseminate research and build impact pathways through organising
 multiple forms of public engagement and networking activities that take place across different
 sites locally and globally, online and offline.

 Support measures and infrastructure facilitating the implementation of this strategy include
 training and mentoring, allocating research hours for impact-generating activities, and providing
 impact funds and high-quality venues. We hold at least two annual research development events
 for all staff, where progress on research impact is discussed and activities are shared. Annual
 research appraisals with CREAM Co-directors highlight CREAM researchers’ independent plans
 for impact. We have invested in a part-time research assistant and developer to work specifically
 on editorial aspects of the CREAM website, and to manage our social media accounts. We are
 working with Haplo in our Virtual Research Environment, to create University platforms for
 sharing, and open access for different forms of research findings.

 Other projects identified as requiring support to build external impact have been funded by
 UoW’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Office, including the appointment of Impact
 Research Associates. We work closely with these teams to identify and capture our work in the
 cultural and social sector in terms of international reach and policy development. Our strategic
 research fund provides further pilot funding for impact and public engagement activities, with a
 number of staff receiving awards (Thompson, Twomey, Maziere, Dawood, Ingawanij, Orlow,
 Kempadoo, White).

 University investment also comes from our University Research Communities (see REF5a).
 Seed funding from this initiative supports CREAM-initiated or CREAM-associated projects
 emphasising environmental and ecological understanding of contemporary conditions. Funding
 specifically supports interdisciplinary impact, bringing together CREAM researchers with leading
 academics in other units, including law, media policy, architecture, and social sciences.

 Staff receive research hours for a wide range of activities including building platforms for
 research impact. For instance, Maziere is allocated research hours for his curatorial work at
 Ambika P3 and London Gallery West. Ambika P3 gallery continues to support ground-breaking
 and public-facing research and exhibition practices. Outstanding examples of research-led,
 impact-driven exhibitions and events since 2014 include Chantal Akerman:NOW, Bass Culture,
 and Invisible Men.

 We have further extended our research engagement activities to UoW’s historic Regent Street
 Cinema. Notable events there include screenings and masterclasses of films by world cinema
 auteurs (Akerman, Lav Diaz, Apichatpong Weerasethakul) as part of the CREAM Screens
 series. CREAM routinely co-presents exhibitions of outstanding films from the global south that
 would otherwise not be publicly shown in the UK, working with festivals and programmes such
 as International Film Festival Rotterdam, Aperture: Asia and Pacific Film Festival (for which
 CREAM is the main partner), Film and Video Umbrella, Berwick Film and Media Arts Festival,
 and Open City Documentary Festival.

 The success of our strategy for promoting impactful research is reflected in our impact case
 studies and other impact activities. Twomey's participatory ceramics practice raise questions
 about the value of making in contemporary society. Partnerships with organisations such as the
 Crafts Council and Tate have placed her research at the heart of public debate, feeding into arts

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 policymaking regionally and nationally in the UK. Riley's AHRC-funded project, ‘Bass Culture,’
 addresses the disengagement and lack of education surrounding the heritage of Jamaican and
 Jamaican-influenced music in Britain over the last six decades. Oppenheimer’s documentaries
 The Act of Killing and The Look of Silence continue to significantly influence other leading
 documentary makers, and documentary film theorising, and were key to opening up debates in
 Indonesia about the 1960s genocide. His work has been cited as a motivating factor in the
 declassification of information held in the USA about the genocide. Oppenheimer’s work in this
 area continues with Thomas through the AHRC-funded research project ‘Documentary of the
 Imagination.’

 Our impact strategy delivers cultural enhancement through creative academic leadership,
 partnering with programmes at leading museums, biennials, festivals, cinemas, theatres and
 galleries. From across all of our research areas, academics lead curatorial strategies,
 developing and delivering projects with the British Library, Biennale für aktuelle Fotografie,
 Bienal de la Imagen en Movimiento, Lubumbashi Biennale, Royal Shakespeare Company,
 Donmar Warehouse Theatre, Museum of London, V&A, Tate, International Film Festival
 Rotterdam, Tokyo Photographic Art Museum, Experimenta India, Glasgow Women’s Library,
 Inclusive Mosque Initiative, and many others. This approach engages prolifically with
 independent, artist-run, and grassroots groups across urban and rural localities in many
 countries. As further detailed in section 4, all of our researchers very actively disseminate their
 research, through talks, seminars, workshops, exhibitions, screenings and performances.
 CREAM researchers also regularly organise events, festivals and exhibitions, working with a
 multitude of international, national and regional organisations that promote public engagement.

 1.6 Open Access Strategy

 CREAM researchers work with UoW open research policies, processes and practice as outlined
 in REF5a, including for practice-based outputs, such as exhibitions, films, multimedia works, and
 artefacts, along with an extensive range of textual publications including journal articles,
 monographs, catalogues, and online publishing. We work closely with the Virtual Research
 Environment (VRE) steering group and Research Data Management Group to further develop
 practice-based portfolios’ functionality for the VRE. These technical developments will allow us
 to openly publish our research portfolios, facilitating our aim to lead on key debates around
 transparency in research and practice, beyond the scope of current UKRI and REF2021 policy.
 We will publish key examples of our portfolio submissions to REF2021 through our enhanced
 VRE in 2021-22. This strategy, developed with staff in UoW Scholarly Communications team,
 and with development partner Haplo, aims to innovate, embed and enhance understanding
 across research information management within the sector, addressing practice research
 methods and complex outputs (where metadata is added to the VRE) in relation to the long-term
 capture, display, discovery and preservation of practice-based research (see REF5a).

 1.7 Future Research Strategy

 CREAM’s future strategy will seek to further enhance our profile as a world leader on practice-
 based, interdisciplinary and impactful research, working across both our established and
 emerging research areas. Given the challenging political and cultural impacts of Brexit and
 COVID-19 that all UK HEIs face, we are creating resilience by: consolidating a collective
 research culture and building the capacity of ECRs; effective succession planning; deepening
 and strengthening partnerships with leading academic and cultural institutions internationally;
 extending our work with institutions and partners in the global south; seeking new opportunities,
 partnerships and funding to tackle urgent social, cultural and environmental issues globally.
 The strategy will engage with the experimental and interdisciplinary boundaries of research
 processes and presentation, creating impact through new formats of public engagement attuned
 to societal and cultural landscapes significantly changed by COVID-19. Given the medium-term
 prospect of reduced face-to-face interactions, and a substantial reduction in long-distance travel
 to take part in and organise activities with international partners, we are developing CREAM
 Digital, an online platform for research implementation, dissemination, and impact, ranging from

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 talks and screenings through to festivals and conferences. This includes developing new ways to
 work with international academic and arts partners, in order to integrate with our physical
 spaces, Ambika P3, London Gallery West, and Regent Street Cinema, and in order to develop
 collaborative research and impact activities via processes and events that are resilient to border
 closures and pandemic disruptions.

 2. People

 Staff

 Strategic investment in new appointments in CREAM has allowed us to support a range of
 exciting new developments in our research since 2014. These include appointments in art,
 technology and the environment (White); contemporary art, moving image and creative practice
 in the global south (Kempadoo, Koksal); and transmedia storytelling and aesthetics (Fusari,
 Gaudenzi, Goddard). Our long-standing areas of research have been expanded with new
 appointments in photography (Soutter, Moore, Dominici), art and moving image (Reynolds,
 Marsh), and television research (Hogg, McNicholas Smith). Westminster School of Arts (WSA)
 is led by a new appointment, Sporton, whose background is in dance and creative industries
 research.

 Our commitment to career progression and the success of our staff development strategies is
 evidenced by the fact that a very significant number of CREAM staff have been promoted to
 Professorships and Readerships since 2014. Professorships were awarded to Corby, Groves,
 Ingawanij, Oppenheimer, Thompson, Twomey and Wyver; Readerships were awarded to
 Kempadoo, Sprio, Goddard, and Orlow. A strong indication of the sustainability of our
 research environment is also our record of accomplishment on long-term staff retention.
 Ingawanij, Oppenheimer, Orlow, Twomey, for example, who now hold senior positions, all
 joined CREAM as post-doctoral researchers or research fellows in the mid-2000s.

 The College provides structured support for a balance of teaching and research for all CREAM
 staff. White and Ingawanij work closely with research group leaders to support and mentor
 researchers at all levels, including full-time, fractional, and fixed-term staff. The CREAM Co-
 directors conduct annual interviews with all individual staff researchers to discuss and assess
 evidence and quality of outputs, involvement in external peer-reviewing, application for external
 grants, and active participation in research culture. All WSA staff are invited to propose projects
 for potential funding and development mentoring. In this way, all staff are accorded appropriate
 financial and administrative support for independent research activity, grant application
 development, knowledge exchange activities, workshops, conferences, and other activities that
 facilitate CREAM’s research culture.

 CREAM runs regular research update sessions during semester time, and two awaydays per
 year, to keep members abreast of developments and foster a sense of community. Our sessions
 include workshops on process documentation for practice research, knowledge sharing around
 proposed projects, bid writing and activities aimed at supporting enhanced understanding of
 research quality. Awaydays are accompanied by the CREAM symposium series, whereby
 CREAM researchers present work around a common theme, alongside eminent guest speakers.
 Past topics include Interdisciplinary Curating, Journal Management, Bid Writing, Emerging Fields
 of Research Practice, and Research as Process.

 CREAM Co-directors together with the Head of School consider on an annual basis the
 allocation of hours for research. This allocation is a key institutional enabler of research
 excellence and research development at the level of the individual and the organisation. The
 provision of dedicated hours for independent research is managed through the University
 Workload Allocation Model (WAM), which is also used to assign dedicated time for impact, bid
 writing and research management activities. The use of WAM ensures fairness in the allocation
 of hours across staff members, and clearly specifies the expectations for different levels of
 research activity. Through this process, we have been able to guarantee research time (pro rata)

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of 425 hours for professors and readers (level 3), and to allocate 350 and 250 hours for staff at
 research level 2 and 1 respectively. CREAM Co-directors recommend hours for staff with
 significant responsibility for research to the Head of School, ensuring an equitable balance in
 workload. Staff research time amounts to around 30% of their overall workload, consistent with
 the proportion indicated in our REF2014 Environment template.

 CREAM further supports its researchers through our research production and dissemination
 budget. Staff submit expense request forms detailing their rationale for the proposed activity,
 and how it meets our criteria. Research activities supported include presenting papers at
 academic conferences, and the production of works, exhibitions and events. The research
 expenses budget is awarded annually from the QR fund to an amount of £30K per annum, which
 is distributed to researchers on a competitive basis. Established researchers invited to give
 keynotes, or speak at conferences and other events, frequently have travel and accommodation
 costs paid by the host rather than from the CREAM research budget, which helps release this
 fund to be targeted at emerging researchers. The School’s newly launched PILOT fund targets
 ECRs, providing access to seed funding (£2-4k) to initiate research projects. All major funding
 decisions are assessed and decided by the School Research leads, made up of CREAM Co-
 directors with the Head of School, for endorsement by the College Executive Group.

 The University strongly supports the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers. All staff can access the University research mentoring circle
 initiative, whose emphasis is on ensuring support for emerging researchers and those returning
 from periods of absence, and addresses such issues as health and wellbeing. CREAM
 researchers provide additional peer support and feedback for funding applications, writing
 articles, book proposals, and improving gallery profiles. New and emerging researchers are also
 encouraged to undertake PhDs, for which they receive College support. Staff PhD completions
 in this period include Barnwell, Cumberland, Maziere, Pucill, Triscott, Thomas, Twomey.
 The Graduate School offers training in postgraduate supervision, which is mandatory for all new
 researchers and helps us bring supervision experience to ECRs.

 The internationalisation of our research involves supporting ECRs’ applications to funding
 schemes for post-doctoral research and international visiting fellowships. For example, in order
 to consolidate our research excellence in cinema and moving image in the global south, since
 2014 we have hosted two Leverhulme Early Career Fellows: Chatterjee conducted research on
 early cinema in Calcutta; Ross conducted curatorial research on the uses of slide projectors by
 contemporary artists with a focus on non-western artists. We have also hosted
 Chulphongsathorn on a British Academy International Visiting Fellowship, working with
 Ingawanij on a project on Southeast Asian cinema and the Anthropocene. Having completed
 their projects with CREAM, these post-doctoral researchers gained academic posts at Exeter
 University (Chatterjee), Leiden University (Ross), and Chulalongkorn University
 (Chulphongsathorn).

 Research Students

 Our distinctive CREAM Doctoral Programme is overseen by Programme Director Reynolds
 (formerly Kempadoo 2016-19), in conjunction with the CREAM Co-directors, College PhD
 Coordinator and the Graduate School. Our current community of PhD researchers comprises 55
 candidates who are working across most of our research areas.

 The high number of PhD researchers partly reflects CREAM’s success in capturing
 studentships. The Quintin Hogg Trust studentships, for which international applicants are eligible
 to apply, has allowed us to build a strong profile with alumni and dynamic graduate research
 applicants worldwide. Since 2019, as key partners in the Techné 2 AHRC DTP, CREAM has
 been awarded funded studentships for 7 outstanding Home and EU students through a
 competitive recruitment process run with Techné. These include success with the Collaborative
 Doctoral Award; in 2020, Kempadoo recruited a student researcher for a CDA award with Iniva
 and the Stuart Hall Foundation.

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 CREAM’s high numbers of applicants are also attracted by our distinctive research environment.
 Alongside the supervision and research training structure, CREAM PhD researchers’ unique
 cohort-led initiatives have evolved into the self-organised Hyphen Collective (2018). Hyphen has
 an elected PhD-student coordinator who organises collective exhibitions and events, including
 activities with AVPhD students based at Goldsmiths. Among the collective’s initiatives is the
 open access Hyphen Journal, which focuses on practice-based and graduate research and
 benefits from guidance from the University of Westminster Press. Other members attend the
 College Research Committee to represent their community.

 New CREAM PhD researchers are required to undertake mandatory research methods training,
 in a programme that also enables them to meet a large number of staff and fellow PhD
 researchers on other programmes in UoW. CREAM PhD researchers and Hyphen help to
 organise a twice-yearly research symposium, whereby members of the cohort are expected to
 present their ongoing projects, alongside presentations from invited staff and ECRs in particular.
 This helps to align our PhD researchers’ training with the global nature of our activities and
 networks. Our PhD researchers are actively involved in both Hyphen’s and CREAM’s public
 activities and initiatives, for instance in the Creating Interference research group exploring
 artistic practice, history and memory, led by Kempadoo.

 Researchers on the standard PhD route work with a Director of Studies and second supervisor;
 those undertaking PhD by Published Works with a DoS. Supervisors are given additional WAM
 hours to undertake supervision (1st and 2nd Supervisors). Supervisors monitor PhD researchers’
 progress throughout the course of their studies using the Annual Progress Review system and
 the VRE (see REF5a). A number of our PhD training activities are coordinated with the
 Communication and Media Research Institute (CAMRI) (UoA 34).

 Equality and Diversity

 UoW follows published Equal Opportunities and Diversity guidelines for all appointments and
 promotions. CREAM has been developing its own processes for monitoring research practices
 and supporting staff, including our new initiative, CREAM Futures. This is a programme for peer-
 to-peer reflection on structural racism and colonial legacies in research and education, with the
 aim of embedding anti-racism in research, policy, curricula design, and other pedagogical
 activities. CREAM works closely with the Head of School and Assistant Heads to monitor staff
 Equality and Diversity issues, and we follow guidance and policy objectives in line with the Vitae
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. Of the current CREAM
 researchers submitting to REF2021, 55% are female, a pattern reflected within CREAM’s wider
 recruitment and staff group. Around 16% are classified as BAME. Of the 11 senior CREAM
 research appointments in this census period, 55% are female and 45% BAME.

 Research staff have flexible working arrangements that allow for many forms of remote working.
 Many of our staff are fractional, and juggle their academic posts with engagement in artistic,
 industry and other creative sectors. To accommodate our members we have no formal
 attendance policy for research, except for teaching and meetings. This aspect of CREAM culture
 has been especially useful during the pandemic. Research staff also work on projects
 internationally, and may spend long periods abroad on projects or residencies often
 commissioned by non-UKRI funders. Arrangements are made with line managers to
 accommodate such activities.

 Health and Wellbeing is a central part of UoW’s and CREAM’s objectives, so staff who have
 caring responsibilities, or are raising young families, can work within a flexible environment
 through provisions such as online supervision, remote access, or using facilities and premises
 across all our campuses to cut down on travelling time (see REF5a). In this respect, the VRE is
 useful to both staff and PhD researchers alike.



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CREAM actively practices equality and diversity. Staff from protected backgrounds, and staff
 with caring responsibilities, are supported in their career progression and ambition to be
 promoted to senior and leadership research positions and roles. Opportunities for accessing
 CREAM’s research production and dissemination budget, and their equitable distribution, are
 monitored by CREAM Co-directors. Leadership roles, including PhD coordination, CREAM
 management and research area leads, are regularly rotated so that staff at different levels of
 their career and from diverse backgrounds may gain experience and, importantly, shape the
 roles accordingly.

 CREAM’s REF submission and selection process conforms to the University’s Code of Practice.
 This includes fairly evaluating all outputs with support from an external reviewer; not setting
 targets for quantity of outputs; specifying that the selection of returned outputs does not
 determine any future promotion, progression, extension of contracts or performance
 management processes. The submission preparation process was monitored carefully
 throughout both within CREAM and by the UoW REF panel. Our Impact Case studies illustrate
 the diversity of CREAM research.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 Within this census period, CREAM has gained significant income for projects advancing our
 research strategies and thematic priorities. CREAM researchers have won RCUK/UKRI funding
 totalling £1,805,295 for major projects across our research areas. These include the AHRC
 grants for film and media projects, Documentary of the Imagination (£650K P-I Oppenheimer,
 Co-I Thomas), and Screen Plays: Theatre on British Television (£94k P-I Wyver); AHRC grants
 for interdisciplinary projects, Hybrid Bodies Network: An Artist-led Interdisciplinary Study into the
 Effects of Heart Transplantation on Donor Families (£31K P-I Wright), and Digital Realism:
 Visualising the Social through Digital Art Practice (£50k P-I Corby); an AHRC grant for the black
 music project Bass Culture (£533K P-I Riley). CREAM has received a number of British
 Academy grants for projects on Southeast Asian cinema and artists’ moving image:
 Contemporary Art and Animistic Cinematic Practices in Southeast Asia (Mid-career Fellowship,
 £121K Ingawanij); Southeast Asian Cinema and the Anthropocene (International Visiting
 Fellowship, £28K Chulphongsathorn); Comparing Experimental Cinemas (International
 Partnership and Mobility Scheme, £10K Ingawanij). CREAM has won a BA Newton Mobility
 grant for the interactive documentary project IF BUG LAB (£10K Gaudenzi). We also received
 two Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships (£42K Chatterjee, £85K Ross). Other grants include
 more than £1.47 million from non-RC sources including artists' commissions. Examples include
 Maziere, £104K from University of Cambridge and Wellcome Trust; Orlow £100K, Wellcome,
 Arts Council England, Stanley Thomas Johnson Foundation, Film London.

 The Quintin Hogg Trust – a charity founded in 1903 to support education at UoW – has also
 invested significantly in Art and Design staff and resources. These range from the Westminster
 Menswear Archive (£350k, Groves 2015), to matched funding of QR investment in internal
 strategic research and impact projects, including for Leviathan (Venice Biennale £22.5k,
 Dawood 2017) and Production at Tate Exchange (£20k, Twomey 2018).

 Within this census period, additional research support structures have enhanced our success in
 making grant applications. The University RKEO employs a pool of research support staff,
 including a dedicated School Research Development Partner who alerts CREAM researchers to
 funding opportunities and advises individuals on applications; a Post-Award Officer; and, when
 costed in, project-specific staff to manage funded projects.

 Industry collaborations on CREAM researchers’ film projects (Wyver, Oppenheimer) bring non-
 UKRI income supporting research to around £9 million, a figure that includes funding from the
 BBC/The Space, Danish and Norwegian Film Institutes, Donmar Warehouse, EU MEDIA
 Programme, MacArthur Foundation, RSC Live, Sundance Documentary Institute, Finnish and

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Dutch National Television, and much else. Other smaller funding for research and dissemination
 was raised from a wide range of sources including Ambika Foundation, Arts Council England,
 Arts Catalyst, Arts Council England, Arts Council of Ireland, Austrian Science Fund, Black
 Cultural Archives, Big Lottery fund, British Council, British Library, Delfina Trust, EU Asia-Europe
 Foundation, Fondazione Palazzo Magnani, Japan Foundation, Latham Foundation, Henry
 Moore Institute, Iran Heritage Trust, LABoral Centro de Arte y Creation, National Sound Archive,
 Purin Pictures, Reggio Emilia, Sharjah Biennale, Somerset House, Städelschule Portikus e.V.,
 The Whitechapel Gallery, Timothy Taylor Gallery, and private sources.

 Following REF2014, UoW established a Strategic Research Fund comprising QR funds matched
 funded by the Quintin Hogg Trust. Following a competitive process in which bids were reviewed
 by a panel of senior academics, CREAM successfully bid for £103k from QHT (QR matched
 funded) to further support projects, networks, conferences, exhibitions, and new initiatives. The
 process trained researchers to prepare rigorous and effective bids, and the pump priming of
 activity has led to new outputs and created further bids in partnership with other institutions.
 Those benefiting included: Dawood, Twomey, Orlow, White, Abrams, Ingawanij, Mazière,
 Mey, Thompson, Kempadoo, Tabrizian and Goddard.

 3.2 Scholarly infrastructure

 Students and staff have 24-hour access to a large library of books, journals, and IT resources,
 which include electronic library packages with access to databases, Box of Broadcasts and
 online journal portals including Project Muse, JSTOR (see REF5a). This also boasts extensive
 specialist collections in arts and media. The University further hosts the unique archive of its
 early predecessor, the Royal Polytechnic Institution, a venue for public lectures and experiments
 in photography and film from the Victorian era onwards.

 Our own scholarly infrastructure includes two digital and one physical archive developed at
 CREAM:
    • Our Arts on Film project has digitised and catalogued the Arts Council’s 480 films on
       artists in collaboration with the BFI, which holds the originals. The archive is currently
       under redevelopment to improve and extend user access. Arts on Film was a founder
       partner, along with BBC, BL, BFI and ACE, in the BBC Digital Public Space project.
    • Screenplays, developed through an AHRC project, was another collaboration with the
       BBC. Completed in 2017, it will become the definitive record of stage plays on British
       television since the early 1930s.
    • Following a significant investment of £350,000 by the Quintin Hogg Trust, Groves led the
       establishing of Westminster Menswear Archive, supported by the appointment of a
       professionally-qualified curator in 2017. This collection is the world's first menswear
       archive, containing garments ranging from WWI clothing to statement pieces from the
       likes of Alexander McQueen and Burberry.

 3.3 Digital Strategy

 CREAM NEWS, edited by Orlow and Hogg, is a newsletter published twice a year to publicise
 the wide-ranging activities of CREAM researchers. This Newsletter now informs our new
 website, www.cream.ac.uk. This ongoing project, integrated with our social media feeds,
 showcases and publicises the activities of CREAM members to increase our public reach, drive
 PhD and research recruitment, as well as provide a future platform for presenting and
 disseminating research. Led by our Scholarly Communications team, CREAM has developed a
 new digital portfolio and collections capability with software company Haplo, which allows us to
 capture multiple outputs into single collections for broader dissemination using Digital Object
 Identifiers (DOI). In this respect, we have used QR funding to prioritise development of
 innovative digital services that support practice-based research and open access for other HEI in
 the UK and Internationally (see REF5a), and, critically, to continue to lead the field in this area.
 We plan to officially launch examples of these portfolios following our submission to REF2021.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.4 Operational Structure

 The Harrow Campus houses the art, design and media subject specialist library, state-of-the-art
 studios for television, radio, print, film, photography, music and artistic practice, and has been
 upgraded following a major refurbishment of the library and Emerging Media Space (£3,265K).
 The latter R&D facility incorporates high-end open access technologies, editing and ‘maker’
 equipment for practice research, ranging from 3d to VR and electronics. A team of technicians,
 library and computing staff provide year-round support and training. All staff and doctoral
 students have designated offices with computers, social spaces, as well as access to equipment
 and studios. Similar facilities and support are available for research fellows and visiting scholars.

 Two UoW galleries enhance this infrastructure for research in art and design. London Gallery
 West at Harrow Campus, established in 2004 and curated by Maziere, continues to exhibit
 crosscurrents in arts research within and outside the institution. Many researchers from CREAM
 use this significant space for dialogue between their own research groups and externally with a
 diverse range of user groups. Since 2007, UoW’s AmbikaP3 gallery at Marylebone Campus,
 also curated by Maziere, and under new stewardship by Sporton, has become a notable venue
 for exhibitions and cultural events, and remains one of London’s largest spaces dedicated to
 contemporary art and architecture. It was 2017 winner of the Academic Venue Award ‘Best
 Exhibition Space’. P3 has showcased work by Chantal Akerman, Martina Amati, Heiner
 Goebbels, and broken new ground with Art/Science exhibitions including Casebooks, with
 commissioned work of Jasmina Cibic, Federico Díaz, Lynn Hershman Leeson, Rémy
 Markowitsch, Lindsay Seers and Tunga, as well as a range of CREAM researchers and doctoral
 students. For the last few years, it has also hosted prestigious events run by Serpentine Gallery
 Ecologies Programme, London Contemporary Music Festival, and a range of International
 interdisciplinary Art and Architecture projects, such as FabFest. The Executive Group works with
 Schools to ensure the right balance is maintained between scholarly, operational, and
 organisational structures. The Ambika P3 Plan prioritises activities and resources over a three-
 year period, within which sustainability of the research culture is a key strategic aim.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 CREAM has contributed to the research base, economy and society through collaborations,
 partnerships, major publications, editorial work, contributions to research councils, academic and
 arts bodies, and organisation of conferences and public engagement events.

 Research collaborations, networks, and partnerships

 CREAM sustains its dynamic research culture through cultivating wide-reaching collaborations
 and diverse networks. All our research council and major externally funded research projects
 within this REF period involve significant collaborations with academic, arts and cultural
 institutions at international and national levels.

 Bass Culture (AHRC Riley), the flagship project for our music research area, explores the
 impact of Jamaican and Jamaican-influenced music on British culture through partnership with
 institutions including the British Library, Museum of London, Goldsmiths, and SOAS. In our film
 and media area, Documentary of the Imagination (AHRC Oppenheimer and Thomas) is
 establishing partnerships with Final Cut for Real, The Sundance Institute, The Doc Society,
 CPH:DOX, and Danish Film Institute. Screen Plays (AHRC Wyver) collaborated with the British
 Film Institute on a season of rarely seen television productions of theatre plays screened at BFI
 Southbank. Animistic Apparatus (British Academy, Asia-Europe Foundation and other funders,
 Ingawanij with assistance from Ross), a curatorial project exploring contemporary Southeast
 Asian artists’ moving image, has developed an extensive network through exhibitions and
 screenings with arts and industrial partners such as Berwick Film and Media Arts Festival, NTT
 InterCommunication Center (Tokyo), Purin Pictures, Japan Foundation and Alliance Française in
 Southeast Asia, and Rjiksakademie van beeldende kunsten (Amsterdam). Ross’s internationally
 touring curation of the exhibition of global contemporary artists’ uses of the slide projector,

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Blackout (Leverhulme ECF), involved partnership with International Film Festival Rotterdam,
 Kunsthal Rotterdam, and Greylight (Brussels). Gaudenzi collaborated with her network partner
 at the Federal University of the State of Rio de Janeiro on the IF BUG LAB workshop (British
 Academy), exchanging methodologies and expertise in developing interactive documentary
 projects. Ingawanij worked with her counterpart at the Srishti School of Art, Design and
 Technology (Bangalore) on the symposium and screening project Comparing Experimental
 Cinemas in Asia (British Academy). White has worked with Target Studio for Creative
 Collaboration based at Weisman Gallery, University of Minnesota on their Habitability
 programme funded by the Andy Warhol Foundation which included professionals from across
 academic disciplines and the USA space industry, leading to an experimental app and future
 programme of activity examining experimental environments across the USA.

 CREAM’s interdisciplinary research projects, especially within our art and society research area,
 are similarly wide-ranging in terms of their collaborative networks. The Ambika P3 exhibition
 CASEBOOKS (Wellcome, Maziere), a project inviting contemporary artists to respond to a
 seventeenth-century medical casebook, involved collaborators from MoMA PS1, scientists from
 the University of Cambridge, and Nottingham Contemporary. Hybrid Bodies Network (AHRC,
 Wright) established collaborations with Toronto General Hospital, Concordia University, and
 KKW Leipzig, among others. Orlow's multidisciplinary and multimedia body of artistic work
 exploring the botanical world as a stage for politics at large, Theatrum Botanicum (Wellcome,
 Arts Council England), established an expansively global network of collaborators and exhibiting
 institutions such as Museum Afrika and Durban Art Gallery (South Africa), Kunsthalle Mainz,
 and Tabakalera (San Sebastian).

 Major publications and contributions to the research field

 CREAM’s members make vital contributions across our wide-ranging research areas.
 Oppenheimer was awarded the MacArthur Fellowship (2014) for “challenging the modern
 aesthetic of documentary cinema” with The Act of Killing and The Look of Silence (AHRC-
 funded); in response to public interest raised by these films, the US government declassified US
 documents on the Indonesian genocide. As Tate Exchange’s Lead Artist (2017-18), Twomey
 drew on the participatory method she has been developing in her expanded ceramics practice
 to create the exhibition Factory: The Seen and the Unseen, and its associated programme
 Production, whose year-long process entailed working with 60 small arts organisations. The
 exhibition drew over 4,800 public members to participate in its production activities.

 Works exemplifying CREAM’s practice-based mode of critical enquiry have enriched cultural life
 on a global scale. CREAM’s photographic research notably intersects the curatorial and the
 historical. Major contributions in this census period include Campany’s internationally touring
 curation of acclaimed photographic exhibitions, The Open Road, Walker Evans, and A Handful
 of Dust; and his appointment as curator of Biennale für aktuelle Fotografie (2020). In fashion,
 Grove’s menswear project, comprising the establishing of the Westminster Menswear Archive
 and the exhibition Invisible Men, enlarges the scope of studying menswear and facilitates
 academic and industry research into menswear design. Research projects embodying CREAM’s
 key theme of interdisciplinarity include Dawood's touring exhibition of his 10-part Leviathan film
 cycle, which premiered at Venice in 2017 in partnership with the Institute of Marine Science.
 Projects in our film and media area are at the frontier of intermedial practices, notably Wyver’s
 production of Shakespeare stage plays as event cinema, RSC Live from Stratford-upon-Avon,
 and Donmar Shakespeare Trilogy. Films and film curating projects by CREAM’s researchers are
 contributing to contemporary forms of postcolonial cinema and highlighting under-researched
 themes for de-westernising contemporary film and moving image. Tabrizian's acclaimed feature
 film Gholam portrays Iranian migrant and diasporic experiences in present-day London. The
 internationally circulating screening programmes as part of Ingawanij’s Animistic Apparatus
 project, along with related CREAM screening projects such as Screening the Forest (with
 Chulphongsathorn, funded by the British Academy), feature global south filmmakers’
 representation of ecologies and human-nonhuman entanglement.


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Major textual publications by CREAM researchers advance new research themes, connections,
 and methods. In photography, our publications rethink photography’s relationship to history. For
 example, Campany’s award-winning Walker Evans: The Magazine Work draws attention to an
 underexplored aspect of Walker’s work through comprehensively compiling and contextualising
 the artist’s photoessays. Dominici’s monograph (Travel Marketing and Popular Photography in
 Britain, 1888-1939) is among the first to research the images collection of the Polytechnic
 Touring Association, establishing the relationship between early popular photography, travel
 marketing, and media technologies. Kempadoo’s monograph (Creole in the Archive: Imagery,
 Presence, and the Location of the Caribbean Figure) traces the relationship between Caribbean
 identity, colonialism, and photography, through diverse archival research. In film and media, our
 monographs and edited volumes contribute significantly to key contemporary research themes.
 Goddard’s monograph (Guerilla Networks: An Anarchaeology of 1970s Radical Media
 Ecologies) redefines the idea of media ecology and its relationship to political struggles through
 historicising wide-ranging examples of radical media networks. Koksal’s monograph (Aesthetics
 of Displacement: Turkey and its Minorities on Screen) theorises the connection between the
 experiences of displacement of Turkey’s minorities, memory, and filmic aesthetics. Reynolds’s
 edited volume (Women Artists, Feminism and the Moving Image) features leading academics,
 artists and curators’ articles on the intersection of art, moving image and feminism. Guadenzi’s
 co-edited volume (i-Docs: The Evolving Practice of Interactive Documentaries) combine
 scholarly articles with expert interviews and case studies to propose terminologies and methods
 of researching and practicing an emergent documentary form. Our publications in art and society
 conceptualise expanded fields of practice and institutional engagement. Twomey’s co-edited
 volume (Contemporary Clay and Museum Culture) explores the intersection between
 contemporary ceramics, museums, and curatorial practice.

 Contributions to society and culture and recognition awarded

 CREAM researchers contribute to social and cultural life through wide-ranging artistic and
 knowledge dissemination activities. Thompson’s work in composition and performance
 connecting classical music to black histories includes the commissioned piece Psalm to
 Windrush for the Brave and Ingenious, commemorating the 75th anniversary of the SS Windrush,
 which was performed at Westminster Abbey (June 2018). Elsewhere, Thompson presented
 a BBC3 Radio 3 broadcast on African American Symphonist Florence B Price for a ‘lost’ female
 composer series. The Holocaust Memorial Day Trust commissioned Twomey to devise a project
 to pay tribute to survivors of atrocities, resulting in the participatory art project Humanity is in Our
 Hands. Each year Thomas (and CAMRI colleague Jean Seaton) run the eight-week Chevening
 South Asia Journalism Fellowship Programme, funded by the Foreign Commonwealth &
 Development Office, culminating in a symposium addressing pressing issues in journalism,
 politics and society. According to the British High Commission New Delhi, this project’s
 diplomacy has ‘helped improve the bilateral relationship between the UK and India’.

 The significance of CREAM members’ contributions to culture and society are indicated in the
 various awards and honours received or for which they have been nominated during this REF
 period. Oppenheimer received an Honorary Degree from the world’s first film school, Centro
 sperimentale di cinematografia. His documentary The Look of Silence received an Academy
 Award nomination and has won more than 80 awards. The award Cinema Eye Honors includes
 The Look of Silence and its companion film, The Act of Killing, in its list of top 20 decade-
 defining documentary films. Thompson was awarded: an OBE for her contributions to the arts;
 an Honorary Doctorate from University of the West Indies at Mona; and the University of West
 Indies Luminary award for people of Caribbean heritage who have made significant international
 contributions. Bate won the Royal Photographic Society Education Award for his contributions to
 photography education, and Singapore’s Kwek Leng Joo Prize of Excellence in Photography.
 Cummings won the Women’s Hour Craft Prize for the originality of her time-based ceramics
 installation challenging the idea of craft and received an Honorary Doctorate from the University
 of Brighton. Campany’s book The Open Road won the Alice Award. RSC Live, produced by
 Wyver, received a BAFTA nomination for best live event. Orlow received the Zurich Fine Art


                                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 prize and the Sharjah Biennial Award. Sharjah also awarded a Special Mention prize to
 Dawood. Twomey was appointed Honorary Fellow at Plymouth College of Art.

 Another indication of recognition is that CREAM researchers’ works have entered public
 collections. Within this census period, for example, Cumming’s work has been collected by the
 Victoria & Albert Museum. Tabrizian’s work has entered the collections of the Smithsonian,
 Museum of London, British Museum, Art Fund, and The Los Angeles County Museum of Art.
 White’s work has been acquired by the Henry Moore Institute for the Leeds Sculpture
 Collection.

 Editorial positions and contributions

 CREAM researchers hold editorial and advisory positions for many significant journals,
 publication series, and hybrid publication platforms. Bate is co-founder and co-editor of
 Photographies. Thomas is co-founder and co-editor of Bioscope: South Asian Screen Studies.
 Maziere and Reynolds are co-editors of MIRAJ: Moving Image Review and Art. Sprio is
 contributing editor for MAI: Feminism and Visual Culture. Ingawanij is on the editorial committee
 for Hong Kong University Press’s series Crossings: Asian Cinema and Media Culture.
 Kempadoo is the co-editor of the publication platform Small Axe Visualities (sxv). Shinkle is an
 associate editor for the online platform American Suburb X. White co-edited the Journal of
 Media Practice (to 2016).

 The interdisciplinary extent of our research contributions is evidenced in the range of journals on
 which CREAM researchers have served as peer reviewers. These include: Adaptation; Art
 Journal; Asian Journal of Communication; Celebrity Studies; Contemporary South Asia; Critical
 Studies in Television; Crossings - Journal of Migration and Culture; Early Popular Visual Culture;
 Film History; Film Quarterly; History of Photography; Journal of American Studies; Journal of
 British Cinema and Television; Journal of Material Culture; Journal of Screenwriting; Journal of
 Southeast Asian Studies; Journal of Tourism and Cultural Change; Journal of War and Culture
 Studies; Media History; Media International Australia; Museum & Society; NECSUS Journal;
 New Formations; New Review of Film and Television Studies; Quarterly Review of Film and
 Video; Positions: Asia Critique; Screen; Sexualities Journal; Shakespeare Bulletin; Tate Papers;
 World Art.

 Academic publishers that CREAM researchers have peer reviewed for include: Amsterdam
 University Press; Brill; Bloomsbury; Duke University; IB Taurus; John Hopkins University Press;
 Manchester University Press; MIT; Oxford University Press; Palgrave; Routledge; Sage; Taylor
 and Francis; University of Cambridge; University of Hawaii Press; University of Minnesota Press;
 University of Texas; Wiley Blackwell; Yale University Press.

 Contribution to research councils, academic bodies, and arts bodies

 CREAM researchers provide service to their research fields as peer reviewers of funded grant
 applications. Our members have served as reviewers for the AHRC; EPSRC; MRC; UKRI Future
 Leaders Fellowship. They have contributed as referees for grants, appointments and promotions
 at HEIs including Australian-ASEAN Council; Cornell University; Harvard University Radcliffe
 Institute for Advanced Study; York University, Canada. Within this REF cycle, CREAM members
 have served as PhD external examiners for dozens of institutions worldwide including: Vilnius
 Academy of Art; RMIT University; Oxford University; Courtauld Institute; Nanyang Technological
 University; Birkbeck; Royal College of Art; Monash University; Lund University; Central St
 Martins; Aalto University; Sheffield University; Royal Holloway; University of Bordeaux; SOAS.

 CREAM researchers contribute to culture and society through jury duties, recommendation of
 artists and cultural practitioners for key awards and residencies, and references. These include:
 Soutter’s jury duties for Lianzhou Foto Festival, Royal Photographic Society Awards, and British
 Photography Award; Thompson’s jury duties for Ivor Novello Awards, British Composer Awards,
 and Gold Badge Awards; Orlow’s jury duty for the Swiss Art Awards; Grove’s duty for the

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International Fashion Showcase Awards, British Fashion Council and British Council;
 Oppenheimer’s duty for Berlin International Film Festival, and Venice Film Festival; Ingawanij’s
 duty for Open City Documentary Festival, and Arkipel International Documentary and
 Experimental Film Festival. CREAM researchers have provided service as nominees and
 referees for significant arts awards including: Prince Claus Laureate Awards; Paul Huff Award,
 FOAM Amsterdam; Singapore International Film Festival; London Film Festival; NTU Centre for
 Contemporary Art.

 Public engagement activities

 An indication of the success of CREAM’s impact strategy is the regularity with which our
 researchers organise major exhibitions, festivals, and artists’ conversation series. Within this
 census period public events held include: the symposium and launch of the network Creating
 Interference (Kempadoo), addressing contemporary artistic responses to questions of histories
 and memories in a decolonial frame; the retrospective solo exhibition at Ambika P3 of feminist
 film artist Chantal Akerman, accompanied by a screening at Regent Street Cinema, a
 symposium and publications (Maziere, Reynolds, Thomas); the exhibition of the collection from
 the Westminster Menswear Archive and symposium, Invisible Men (Ambika P3, Groves); the
 exhibition Bass Culture, with screening, live acts, and talks (Ambika P3, Riley); Incidental
 Futures, a national touring event engaging younger artists throughout the UK in the history of
 Artist Placement Group and socially-engaged practice (White, CREAM / ACE-funded); the
 Rights and Plight film festival of migrant and refugee counter narratives (Thorburn); the FD
 Zone screening series in partnership with Films Division documentary archive in India
 (Thomas); the retrospective exhibition of films by Filipino radical cinema auteur Lav Diaz:
 Journeys, with a symposium and artist’s talk (Ingawanij); the CREAM Screens series featuring
 outstanding works of world cinema and contemporary artists’ moving image (Reynolds); and a
 high number of CREAM-supported film screenings, exhibitions and workshops at UK festivals
 and venues, brokered by Ingawanij, White, Ross, Reynolds and others, including BFI London
 Film Festival, London Korean Film Festival, UK Asian Film Festival, Aperture: Asia & Pacific Film
 Festival, Arts Catalyst, BIMI Essay Film Festival, Open City Documentary Festival, and Institute
 of Contemporary Art.

 Conference and workshop organisation

 CREAM members regularly organise conferences and related events. These include: the
 interdisciplinary Proving Grounds colloquium series, exploring artistic research practices and
 ecological matters, initiated by White and John Beck (UoW Institute of Modern and
 Contemporary Culture) linking with Test Sites and Extractable Matters, two International
 environmental assemblies coordinated with Arts Catalyst (Triscott, White); the African Film
 Conference (Thorburn, Africa Media Centre); the I-Docs annual Symposium and the talk series
 on digital interactive media, disLAB (Gaudenzi); the Trans TV conference (Goddard, Hogg);
 the Photographies Conference series including the 2020 edition Photography in Asia
 (Singapore, Bate); the talk series Photography Forum (Soutter, Shinkle); the Ex-Art: Liquid
 Imaginaries symposium on artistic explorations of the ocean (White, Ingawanij); Hyphen –
 CREAM & CAMRI PhD collective exhibition; the CREAM Ceramics Research Centre talks
 programme at Bargehouse (Twomey, Cummings, Peters); the conference Media, Arts and
 Hybrid Spaces (Sprio).

 Keynotes, invited conference presentations, and public talks

 CREAM researchers have delivered over five hundred invited lectures and talks, and have taken
 part in comparable numbers of solo and group exhibitions, performances, and film screenings.
 Among the keynotes, plenaries, and masterclasses given are ones by: Kempadoo at MIT;
 Ingawanij at Haus der Kunst Munich, National Gallery Singapore, NTU Centre for
 Contemporary Art, Chulalongkorn University, SOAS, and University of Glasgow; Twomey at
 National Keramiekmuseum Princessehof; White at Wellcome Trust, Angewandte Innovation
 Laboratory, Vienna, Stadehlschule - Frankfurt, Cambridge University, Whitechapel Gallery,

                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Henry Moore Institute; Wright at University of Bergen; Wyver at University of Oxford, and
 University of Reading; Oppenheimer at Sundance Film Festival, California Institute of the Arts,
 Institute of Contemporary, and International Documentary Association; Gaudenzi at East Doc
 Festival Prague, and University of Artevelde; Thompson at Royal Northern College of Music,
 and Bournemouth Univeristy; Dawood at Asia Contemporary Art Week, Guggenheim Museum
 and Asia Society Museum, and Fulsome UK Biennale; Bate at Contemporary Photography
 Exhibition in Dali, ORGAN VIDO FESTIVAL in Zagreb, Nida International Photography
 Conference in Lithuania, IRI Porto, and University of Central Lancashire; Sprio at La Cattolica
 University, Milan; Pucill at Ravensbourne University; Orlow at University St Gallen,
 Völkerkunde Museum Zurich, and MUCEM Marseille; Shinkle at HSE Art and Design School. A
 retrospective of Maziere’s films has taken place at Filmoteca Cantabria, and a career
 retrospective exhibition of Orlow’s works has taken place at Kunsthalle Mainz.




                                                                                         Page 17
