Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Bristol

 Unit of Assessment: 4: Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1a. Overview of research structure
The University of Bristol (UoB) has a distinguished tradition as a major centre in cognitive and
brain health research (this UoA4 submission comprises 83 researchers, 77.34 FTE submitted,
£63M of research income spend and 255 Doctoral degrees awarded in current assessment
period). A core part of UoB’s overarching research mission is the comprehensive bidirectional
study of the full translational health pathway spanning from molecules to populations. We achieve
this collaboratively and through interdisciplinarity across all biomedical research activities that are
returned in UoAs 1, 2, 5 and 6 and across multiple disciplines including those submitted in UoAs 8-
12 of this REF submission. This integrated approach enables us to tackle major global societal
challenges, including mental health and neurodegeneration, and respond with agility to new
challenges including COVID-19.

The establishment of a single Faculty of Life Sciences (FLS) has united all biological sciences, and
this, along with restructuring of our Faculty of Health Sciences (FHS), promotes greater synergy for
cross-university interdisciplinary research for staff returned in both Neuroscience (UoA4) and
Biomedical Science (UoA5). Research strategies and appointments are supported by an
overarching Health and Life Sciences Research Strategy Committee to maximize added value and
exploit key and novel interdisciplinary scientific interfaces. Interdisciplinarity is further fostered by
our University Research Institutes (URIs) and Specialist Research Institutes (SRIs), each chaired
by a PVC and led by a Director supported by a board composed of all faculty Deans. The
establishment of the URIs, namely, the Cabot Institute (environment), the Jean Golding Institute
(data), the Brigstow Institute (living and being) and the Elizabeth Blackwell Institute (health), which
presciently anticipated the establishment of UKRI, has proven a highly effective mechanism for
creating a step-change in UoB research activity by bringing topflight researchers from across UoB
into emerging interdisciplinary fields of importance to UoA4 but not bounded by it.

Research related to this UoA is delivered with strong commitment to equality, diversity and
inclusion (EDI) and career development of all staff, especially early career researchers (ECRs).
Our submission represents activity through three schools across FLS (the School of Physiology,
Pharmacology and Neuroscience (PPN, led by Piggins) and the School of Psychological Science
(PS, led by Gilchrist, Fellow of the British Psychological Society) and FHS (Bristol Medical School,
BMS, led by Blom (UoA2)). UoA4 consists of 83 (27 PPN, 30 PS, 26 BMS) researchers, (providing
a total of 77.34 FTE staff) 31% of whom are female, 6% staff are ECRs, and 18% of whom are
clinical academics). Major achievements during this REF cycle (2014- 2021) include:
   •   Strategic leadership: creation and alignment of FLS and FHS and subsequent restructuring
       of Bristol Neuroscience (BN) activity (that represents UoA4), following external review, to
       refine neuroscience research priorities and direct future activities.
   •   Significant clinical links across the region, driven by Wynick as Director, Bristol Health
       Partners AHSC and Joint R&D Director for University Hospitals Bristol and Weston NHS
       Foundation Trust and North Bristol NHS Trust.



                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Advancing knowledge: More than 1950 publications, with over 440 in top 10% (Scopus®
       Indexed journals) most cited worldwide.
   •   Increased research income: Grant spend led by UoA4 PIs totals £63M in the current period
       (up from £51M in REF2014), including 5 neuroscience Wellcome Trust Investigators in
       UoA4, and 2 in UoA5. In 19/20, 37% of grants were awarded to female researchers.
   •   Increased research capacity: The recruitment or promotion of 15 scientific leaders (9
       women and 5 ECRs) has increased the FTEs returned in UoA4 and supported an upward
       trajectory for income per FTE (£0.83M/FTE now compared to £0.77M/FTE in 2014) and
       recruitment of exceptional ECRs.
   •   Increased research quality: UoA4 has been central in Responsible Research and
       Innovation (RRI) both in UoB and nationally. Munafò co-directs the UK Reproducibility
       Network.
   •   Investment in people: We have developed fully integrated training programmes that benefit
       staff and students at all levels equally and cater for both basic and clinical scientists.
       Bespoke career development opportunities are provided through the UoB Vice Chancellor
       Fellowships (3 in this UoA funded at £200k per award), and the Great Western 4 (GW4, a
       formal alliance with the Universities of Bath, Exeter, and Cardiff) Clinical Academic Training
       (CAT) pathway (£5.1M Wellcome Trust). Doctoral awards have risen to 255 from 151 in
       REF2014.
   •   Diversity: Continued improvement in our environment and commitment to EDI. Schools in
       this UoA hold current Athena Swan awards.
   •   Increased interdisciplinarity: New URIs, with Faculty re-structuring, have fostered
       interdisciplinary research efforts to help BN maximise opportunities for increased
       collaboration.
   •   Translational impact: Important growth since REF2014 in NIHR supported clinical
       postgraduate (7 academic clinical fellowships) and postdoctoral staff (6 academic clinical
       lectureships) is aligned with our focus to develop new areas of diagnostic and intervention
       research and improve clinical practice and health care.
   •   Contribution to society: UoA4 researchers pivoted to apply their expertise to COVID-19
       facing research to produce an online vaccine handbook (Lewandowsky) and SleepQuest
       (Coulthard, Piggins) investigation (on medRxiv) of lockdown consequences on sleep,
       cognitive function, and circadian rhythms.

1b. Strategic and organisational advances since REF2014
The ethos of BN is scientific research excellence across the spectrum of the discipline. Our
strategy is to grow disciplinary strength and breadth through strategic planning and networking
across UoB and our two partnering NHS Trusts, whilst maintaining a strong focus on EDI. The
schools and faculties that contribute to BN have undergone significant restructuring and re-
positioning following REF2014, following a major strategic review of biomedical research at UoB to
catalyse research excellence for REF2021 and beyond. This review triggered the coalescence of
medical research into four key areas, BN (UoA4), alongside Cardiovascular Sciences (UoA1),
Infection Immunity and Cancer (UoA1) and Population Health (UoA2).

To effectively oversee the renewal of Health and Life sciences, including BN, a new PVC Health
and Life Sciences position was established (Iredale). The subsequent Faculty re-organization and
enlargement (2017) of the Faculty of Health Sciences (FHS; Dean, Norman) hosting Bristol
Medical School, and the creation (2018) of the Faculty of Life Sciences (FLS), which co-located
PPN and PS in the same Faculty brought key research groups into closer alignment. A

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
reinvigorated and newly focused Bristol Neuroscience Health Research Network was formed (as
an evolution of the Bristol Neuroscience community founded in 2003). This has promoted new
shared purpose across school and faculty boundaries to increase interdigitation of research staff,
maximize investment leverage, ensure effective and focused capacity building, and enhance the
existing culture of interdisciplinarity to deliver excellence at scale.

BN is now led by Director of Neuroscience Jones (Wellcome Trust Senior Research Fellow) who
oversees the strong framework of interdisciplinary collaborative research to ensure maximal
integration and translation of knowledge and discovery into clinical applications. The refreshed BN
research strategy is strengthened by links to local NHS Trusts, and heavily supported by the
Elizabeth Blackwell Institute for Health Research (EBI, founded in 2012, received £3.75M in 2016
from Wellcome, matched by UoB). BN continues to build on these strengths with an impressive
cadre of emerging PIs across the unit, and further collaborations with other University Research
Institutes, the MRC-Integrative Epidemiology Unit (UoA2), the NIHR-Biomedical Research Centre
(£21M), SPHERE (£15m EPSRC Sensor Platform for HEalthcare in a Residential Environment),
and our GW4 partner institutions. The guiding principles of our research strategy are:

1. Investing in staff: We promote collegiate interdisciplinarity through dedicated support for the
   career development of all staff, especially ECRs, through engagement with the Concordat to
   Support the Career Development of Researchers (of which UoB was an early signatory). The
   institutional scheme enables this support of both post-doctoral researchers and externally-
   funded Bristol Clear independent research fellows. BN also has a strong EDI ethos in all
   aspects of our research culture (see 2a, 2b below)

2. Investing in students: We are committed to training the next generation of neuroscience PhD
   students, through the expansion and development of DTPs and the further development of the
   Bristol Doctoral College as a comprehensive resource for academic and pastoral support, as
   well as the availability of the same training opportunities as staff, as detailed in section 2b.

3. Investing in infrastructure and facilities: The large-scale re-structuring of FHS and creation of
   FLS brought together research and education in 7 schools, a centre for Health Sciences
   education and the Teaching and Learning for Health Professionals programme with a
   combined annual research income of ~£82M. This has provided UoA4 researchers access to
   superb research infrastructure (see 3c below).

4. Embedding RRI into our research environment: UoA4 champions this strategic theme, hosting
   the University-wide Academic Lead for Research Improvement (Munafò), and formally joining
   the UK Reproducibility Network (See 1f).

5. Disseminating and promoting research: Dissemination of research to academic and non-
   academic stakeholders alike is of central importance (see 4b). BN has a year-round
   programme of seminars with internal and external speakers, promoted in the weekly UoB-wide
   newsletter emailed to all staff; special bespoke academic and public engagement events,
   involving many enthusiastic UoA4 researchers.




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1c. Activities and achievements of strategic research groupings
UoA4 has four research groupings: A. Memory and Cognition, B. Motor Control and Movement
Disorders, C. Sensory Processing and Perception, and D. Cognitive Health and Wellbeing. We
have broad expertise from basic and preclinical neuroscience, through computational neuroscience
and psychology, to clinical neurosciences. PIs undertake significant cross-theme interactions,
which will be realised by our move towards a ‘hub’ structure (see 1e).

A. Memory and Cognition (28 staff, 26 FTE)
Synaptic plasticity and memory:
   • Core BN expertise is in quantifying the roles of distributed neural network activity in
       learning, memory, and decision-making. Building on our world-leading record of
       accomplishment in mechanisms of synaptic plasticity (e.g. original pharmacological
       characterization and function of the ionotropic glutamate receptor family), all PIs have
       translated their work into behaving rodents and, in some cases, humans.
   • Collingridge (CBE, FRS, 2016 Brain Prize winner) employed genetic engineering, synaptic
       physiology and imaging to investigate the roles of kainate receptors in the hippocampus
       (ERC senior investigator award; Nat Neurosci, 2018).
   • Mellor and Ashby have made breakthroughs in understanding of long-term potentiation
       and hippocampal synaptic plasticity (J Neurosci, 2018; Nature Comm. 2016), Whitcomb
       has investigated respecting synaptic adhesion molecules (Nat Neurosci, 2015).
   • Circuit level understanding of hippocampal function has been furthered through Wellcome
       Investigator awards to Warburton/Bashir (£2M; PNAS, 2015; Cereb Cortex, 2016), Jones
       (£1.3M; Nature Neuroscience 2015) and Mellor (£1.1M; Nat Comms 2020), whilst
       Anastasiades (ECR and Marie Curie Fellow) is extending our knowledge of the role of
       cortical connectivity during development in neuropsychiatric disorders (Nat Comms, 2016).
   • Lewandowsky employs computational modelling of memory and decision-making
       processes, concentrating recently on misinformation and climate change and COVID-19
       vaccines (£900K Horizon 2020 funding to enhance vaccine uptake). He advised the Digital,
       Culture, Media and Sport Select Committee for Disinformation and ‘fake news’ in 2017 and
       2018 and was funded by ESRC Impact Acceleration Award (IAA) to investigate cognition
       underlying climate change denial.
   • Research by Turk and Jarrold investigating memory in both typical and atypical
       development in children (Cortex, 2020; J Exp Psychol, 2019) has led to the development of
       materials for educational psychologists through a UKRI-funded collaboration between local
       councils and UoB.
   • Mickes has applied signal detection theory to memory in eye-witness testimony with
       National Institute of Justice (US) funding (PNAS, 2016).

Language:
There is longstanding and broad excellence in language research in BN, encompassing reading,
spoken and written language production, speech comprehension, sentence processing, embodied
cognition, computational modelling of language processes and cognitive neuroscience of
language.
   •   Bowers (ERC senior investigator) studies how humans and artificial neural networks
       generalise across a range of domains, including memory and language (Psychol Rev.
       2014).


                                                                                         Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Davis’ computational modelling work develops understanding of mechanisms underlying
       reading (Cognition, 2015).

Neurodegeneration:
   • BN provides expertise and strategic leadership in translational clinical neuroscience and
      neurodegenerative disease research, from basic science to interventions. UoB has
      historical strength (>30 years) in brain banking through its charity-supported South West
      Dementia Brain Bank (SWDBB), Love’s experience as co-Director of SWDBB and his
      research (NAN 2015; Brain 2016; Brain 2019) led to his appointment (2013-2020) as
      Director of the UK Brain Bank Network (UKBBN, funded by the MRC along with Alzheimer’s
      Research UK, Alzheimer’s Society, Autistica, Multiple Sclerosis, Society, Parkinson’s UK,
      and BRACE), and hosting 11,000 brain donations. He oversaw transformative changes
      across whole of UKBBN to streamline brain banking operations to standards equalling, if
      not exceeding, those of US-based NIH-supported banks.
   • SWDBB-supported research also advanced our understanding of mechanisms underlying
      Alzheimer’s disease (Alzheimers Res & Ther, 2016) and Vascular dementia (Brain, 2015),
      some now deemed modifiable offering novel therapeutic options (Acta Neuropathol, 2020).
   • Kehoe’s research on the renin angiotensin system in Alzheimer’s disease (Alzheimers Res
      & Ther, 2016; Acta Neuropathol, 2020), has translated recently in the RADAR trial
      (ISRCTN93682878), a novel NIHR-EME funded Phase II study of the blood pressure drug
      losartan in Alzheimer’s disease, and his invitation to serve as Co-Investigator in Emory
      University-led related trial in African-Americans (NCT02471833).
   • Ashby identified critical changes in pre- and post-synaptic stability associated with reduced
      neuronal activity, that also occur in the pre-degenerative stages of an in vivo model of
      dementia (Cell Reports, 2017).
   • Scolding is trialling interventions for multiple sclerosis (Lancet Neurol, 2017), informed by
      previous tissue studies.
   • Coulthard investigates dopamine’s role in long-term memory (e.g. DOPAMIND trial
      (ISRCTN90897054), reporting in early 2021), and reinforcement learning in Parkinson’s
      disease (eLife 2017). A recent (£878K) MRC Momentum award links her work with the
      £15M EPSRC SPHERE monitored/instrumented house project.

B. Motor control, and movement disorders (10 staff, 10 FTE)
Movement disorders:
BN staff have been at the forefront of drug repurposing interventions and innovative neurosurgical
methods to provide new treatments for movement disorders.
  •    Parkinson’s disease (PD) and other movement disorders research led by Whone at the
       BMS-based Bristol Brain Centre was key to the multicentre VANTAGE trial to examine the
       effects of novel Deep Brain Stimulation device developed by Boston Scientific (see Impact
       Case Study [ICS]).
  •    HendersonE (UoA2) and Whone investigator-led trial (ResPOND, ISRCTN19880883)
       demonstrated how Rivastigmine improved a surrogate marker of gait stability in PD (Lancet
       Neurology, 2016). A new NIHR HTA funded (£2.1M) multi-centre trial (Chief PD
       ISRCTN41639809) is investigating Rivastigmine on falls in PD.
  •    Whone led a Parkinson’s UK-funded ground-breaking and widely publicized (BBC2 and
       BBC Radio 4 documentaries) neurosurgical trial of convection enhanced delivery of glial cell
       derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in PD (Lancet Neurol, 2019). This work was enabled by

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Bienemann’s development of novel implantable catheter systems with Renishaw plc (see
       ICS).
  •    Wilkins identified novel uses of cytokine therapy for interventions (Ann Neurol, 2016) or cell
       transplantation approaches (Ann Neurol, 2018) for Friedreich’s Ataxia, whilst testing the
       validity of biomarkers for future trials (EudraCT2017-003084-34). This intervention work has
       been extended by technology developed by Uney’s group on the use of viral delivery
       techniques to investigate the validity of gene therapy (J. Biol. Chem. 2020), and
       transplantation of genetically modified haemopoietic stem cells as possible treatments for
       Friedreich’s Ataxia role (MRC £664k, 2020).
  •    Pre-clinically, our pipeline is growing for intervention studies with Cordero-Llana's work
       (with Uney and Wong) on the potential of synergistic approaches for PD treatment,
       including ground-breaking findings of therapeutic benefit from combined neurotrophic factor
       delivery in Preclinical Models of PD (Mol Ther, 2015); and in the regulation of brain alpha-
       synuclein levels (Mol Ther, 2017).

Motor Control:
PPN neuroscience research uses whole animal in vivo (systems) approaches to understand the
control of movements by supraspinal neural networks.
   •   Chadderton (Wellcome Trust Investigator Award 2018-2023) showed that movement
       trajectories can be decoded from single cerebellar neurons (Nature Comms, 2017), leading
       to the development of methods to robotically target neurons for patch clamp recording and
       assay synaptic connections at the subcellular level (Cell Reports, 2018).
   •   Apps’ research has defined how the cerebellum interacts with other brain regions involved
       in motor adaptation, cognition and emotional behaviour (J Physiology, 2014).
   •   Through work investigating how basal ganglia neurons encode motivated behaviour,
       movement and effort, Dodson has identified how spontaneous movement is differentially
       encoded by distinct types of neurons and how this is perturbed in models of PD (PNAS,
       2016).
   •   Leonards and Ludwig direct the Wellcome Trust-funded Bristol Vision Institute Movement
       Laboratory within PS, which houses a 10-camera motion capture system allowing
       Leonards to discover important influences of the visual environment on gait (Roy. Soc.
       Open Sci, 2015).

C. Sensory processing and perception (10 staff, 9.4 FTE)
Sensory neuroscience:
Understanding how wide-ranging peripheral sensory inputs modulate, and are modulated by,
ongoing activity in the brain galvanises a long-standing research effort within the Sensory-Motor
Systems Group to understand how sensory experience is represented in the brain and spinal cord.
   •   Lumb and Apps have investigated descending sensory modulatory systems that originate
       within the brain and regulate spinopetal transmission of sensory information which
       underlies the transition from acute to chronic pain (J Neurosci, 2016).
   •   Pickering and Gill utilise clinical and preclinical studies to investigate the neuromodulation
       of sensory-related activity in the peripheral and central nervous systems associated with
       pain, anaesthesia and autonomic control (eLife, 2017; Resuscitation, 2014). This is
       complemented by important research on nociception, involving galanin by Wynick (Mol Cell
       Neurosci, 2017).


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Ashby described the encoding of sensory experience in the primary sensory cortex (Nature
       Comms, 2016), and sensory representations triggered by brain maturation and
       neurodegeneration (Cell Reports, 2017).

Visual perception:
Our strength in visual perception research is evidenced by continued strength of the Bristol Vision
Institute (BVI), which has been successfully stimulating research interaction and collaboration in
science, engineering, arts and medicine since its creation in 2008 with the aim of addressing grand
challenges in vision research.
   •   Gilchrist & Ludwig co-lead a BVI hosted £1.4M ‘Vision for the Future’ EPSRC platform
       grant, aiming to develop a deeper understanding of the fundamental aspects of perception
       and visual processing in humans and animals (with UoA5 colleagues), across the domains
       of immersion, movement and visual search, coupled with innovative engineering solutions
       (led in UoA12). A linked EPSRC IAA award supplemented this platform grant (‘Media
       Immersion Measurement Service’)
   •   BVI also underpinned the £30M ‘MyWorld’ award to UoB from the UKRI’s Strength in
       Places Fund, with a further £16m coming from industry and academic partners for a five-
       year scheme to support the regional creative industries. Gilchrist leads one of the four core
       programmes focused on audience responses.
   •   Ludwig has made important advances in perceptual decision making and saccadic eye
       movements (PNAS, 2014).
   •   The camouflage group (Baddeley, Scott-Samuel) work closely with colleagues in UoA5 to
       study signal processing, optics and mechanisms of perception in both natural (PNAS, 2018,
       2020) and applied contexts (PLoS, 2016). The group has raised over £2M in the review
       period from UKRI, government (DTSL) and industry (Qinetic) sources.

D. Cognitive Health & Wellbeing (35 staff, 31.94 FTE)
Neonatology:
UoB has an important legacy in pre-clinical discoveries of mechanisms of neurological damage in
neonatology and innovative solutions that have led to clinical interventions.
   •   Thoreson & Chakkarapani continue their leading work into the therapeutic benefits of
       neonatal cooling (see ICS), conducting the CoolXenon trial, which recruited 450 newborns
       who have received cooling therapy since 2007. This cohort shows that cooling reduces
       epilepsy (Epilepsia, 2017) and severity of cerebral palsy (Arch Dis Child Fetal Neonatal Ed,
       2020).
   •   Luyt led the NIHR-funded DRIFT trial, a study of structural and functional brain
       development in school aged children after severe intraventricular haemorrhage and
       ventricular irrigation therapy. Cognitive status was significantly better in children who
       received DRIFT vs. standard treatment (HTA, 2019). Luyt also heads the NHS-funded
       National Child Mortality Database (est. 2018).
   •   Luyt has extended her work to prevent cerebral palsy associated with pre-term labour, that
       arose from the PReCePT1 care quality improvement package. PReCePT1 informed 2016
       guidelines regarding use of magnesium sulphate in all women with pre-term (<30 weeks)
       labour to protect baby brains (see ICS). Luyt now leads the nationally important PReCePT
       cluster randomised trial (ISRCTN40938673), to evaluate the impact of enhanced
       implementation of the National PReCePT programme to reduce adverse outcomes in
       neonates.

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Neurovascular and Neuroglial Neuroscience:
Multidisciplinary approaches (from cultured cells to whole animal, to human) investigate how
central networks control autonomic functions and how lesser appreciated non-neuronal parts of the
brain, the glia cells, contribute to brain function.
   •   Abdala collaborates with industry to gain insight into molecular mechanisms of brain
       deficiencies in Rett syndrome (J Physiol. 2015), intended to develop new therapies for this
       syndrome. Her research is closely linked to both industry through collaboration with
       Neurolixis, and through her work as scientific advisor to Rett UK.
   •   Kasparov studies brainstem control of hypertension and has discovered novel signalling
       mechanisms that control release of important neuromodulator noradrenaline (Nat.
       Commun. 2014).
   •   Miners has shown that abnormal vascular contractility contributes to pathological
       hypoperfusion in dementia (Brain, 2015).

Stress and Endocrinology:
BN leads major research into the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis and how this responds to
stress, exercise and altered time cues.
   •   MRC-funded translation work led by Lightman (FRS) has shown the importance of human
       cortisol dynamics (JCEM, 2019; Critical Care Medicine, 2015).
   •   Reul’s Neuro-Epigenetics Group researches the impact of stressful events on the brain and
       how epigenetic, signalling and gene transcriptional changes in the rat hippocampus
       influence stress responses (PNAS 2016).
   •   Murphy's group investigates the transcriptomic responses to osmotic and cardiovascular
       stimuli (J. Neuroscience 2014; Nanotoxicology 2017).

Mental Health and Health Behaviours:
Mental Health and health behaviour research in BN spans animal models to internet delivered
interventions. An interdisciplinary Mental Health Strategy group (formed 2018) chaired by
Haworth, oversees Mental Health Research at UoB, responds to research priorities, and supports
applications to funders.
   •   Robinson has developed novel animal models of psychiatric conditions with major
       industrial (Boerhinger Ingelheim) and research council funding to determine anti-depressant
       mechanisms, including studying ketamine as an acute treatment for depression
       (Neuropsychopharmacology, 2017).
   •   The Tobacco and Alcohol Research Group (Munafò [Clarivate ‘highly cited’ researcher
       since 2018], Attwood, Maynard (ECR)), researches the psychological and biological
       factors underlying health behaviours and is part of the MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit
       (see UoA2). They have shown smoking cannabis is a causal risk factor for schizophrenia
       (Psychol Med, 2016), and that early cannabis use is associated with higher rates of nicotine
       dependence, harmful alcohol use, and illicit drug use (J Epidemiol Community Health,
       2017). Further work investigates e-cigarettes and youth smoking behaviours (Tob Control,
       2020). Maynard (ECR) continues to investigate the effects standardised packaging on
       cigarette use (ICS).
   •   Penton-Voak and Munafò are co-investigators on the NIHR Bristol Biomedical Research
       Centre (BRC) Mental Health Theme (circa £2.4M), investigating causal pathways between
       cognition and mental health disorders in epidemiological datasets and developing digital
       health interventions (Psych Med, 2019), in collaboration with industry with Innovate UK and

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       MRC Experimental Medicine Challenge Grant funding. Related work supported by an
       EPSRC IAA and an MRC Confidence-in-Concept award (Attwood) is developing a
       classroom based digital intervention for children with ASD.
   •   Haworth leads the Mental Health Data Science Group (working with colleagues in UoA2),
       linking social media data to cohort studies for mental health research (Nat Gen, 2016), and
       was awarded a Philip Leverhulme Prize in 2018.
   •   The Nutrition and Behaviour Unit (NBU) Brunstrom, Rogers and Ferriday have been
       awarded £2.1M (BBSRC and EU) to study food choice, energy intake, and dietary
       influences on mood and cognition (J Nutrition, 2019; Appetite, 2015; Int J Obesity, 2015).
       The NBU work closely with industrial partners to develop tools to assess satiety (see ICS).
       Rogers leads the type 2 diabetes workstream in the Nutrition theme of the NIHR BRC.

Sleep:
Sleep and circadian rhythms are an emerging area of research and a future priority of BN.
   •   Piggins’s BBSRC-funded research investigates the neural basis of circadian rhythms (J
       Neuro 2014; J Physiol 2014) and the long-term effects of exercise on circadian function and
       ageing.
   •   Hodge investigates circadian rhythms in invertebrate models of neurodegenerative
       disorders and ageing (Neurobiol. Dis. 2019), while Rolinski (ECR) investigates REM sleep
       behaviour disorder in prodromal Parkinson’s disease as a patient risk stratification tool
       (Sleep, 2017).
   •   DeVivo and Bellesi have reported how synapse structure changes across sleep state
       (Science, 2017).
   •   Jones is leading new translational approaches to the study sleep and cognitive disturbance
       in larger animals (Brain, 2015) and in psychiatric disorders (Psychological Medicine, 2020).

1d. Future strategic plans.
Following the appointment of Jones as Director of BN and the accompanying strategy refresh,
BN’s priorities and direction are nucleating around five interwoven neuroscientific ‘hubs’ (figure 1).
These hubs – Memory (led by Mellor), Movement (Chadderton), Mental Health (Haworth),
Neural Computation (Conor Houghton, Computer Science) and Sleep (Jones) – allow the co-
localisation of interdisciplinary expertise to research the fundamental questions of brain function in
health and disease and build on the strategic research groupings outlined above. The depth and
breadth of these themes reflect BN’s mission to deliver on our strategic investments to date. The
hubs recognise and exploit existing and potential research interfaces to deliver ‘Brain research for
better lives’ over the coming 5-10 years. Each hub is led by a Strategic Oversight Group convening
fundamental, clinical, computational, psychological, and epidemiological expertise, with ECR, PGR
and undergraduate representation. Hubs integrate across organisational nodes of BN and are
already expanding to embrace new research and methodologies (and possible new hubs) across
disciplines including the Bristol Veterinary School, Biological Sciences, Engineering Maths,
Computer Science, the Bristol Brain Centre and the NHS; the breadth of which sits comfortably
within BN’s unique capability and will ensure effective translation of impactful research that benefits
the public, patients, doctors and industrialists. BN’s hubs will provide clear collaborative portals for
the various internal research-facing entities including the EBI, MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit
(IEU), NIHR BRC, Digital Health, plus academic (e.g. GW4) and industrial partners. The recent
appointment of Golam Khandaker (early life risk factors, neurodevelopment and adult psychosis)
strengthens links with the MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit. Individual hubs are intended to

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
evolve into externally-funded ‘Centres’, undertaking the best neuroscience research in the thematic
priorities. The complementary foci of BN’s four current hubs are bound by two new cross-cutting
themes:
1. Neural algorithms: the synaptic, cellular and circuit mechanisms of neural information
   processing
2. Lifelong brain health: neurobiologically informed approaches to nurturing and treating individual
   and population variation in brain health




Figure 1: BN’s new hub structure, indicating contributing schools (three in this UoA), cross-cutting
themes, and infrastructure underlying research.

1e. Impact strategy
Our Wellcome Trust supported central Translational Research Hub (TRH), within our Research
and Enterprise Division (RED) acts as a single-entry point for the translation of health and life
sciences research. The TRH Steering Group is chaired by the PVC Health, Iredale, and includes
our UoB-funded Entrepreneur-in-Residence, Richard Seabrook (formerly Wellcome Trust Head of
Business Development). The TRH has increased from 2 to 8 FTE during the current REF period,
and ‘hides the wiring’ to simplify partnerships with key stakeholders, whilst providing an accessible
single-point-of-contact into UoB for companies seeking to explore commercialisation and
collaborative opportunities with us. The TRH has overseen the strategic deployment of £3.9M of
devolved portfolio funding received since 2014 (i.e. MRC Confidence-in-Concept (£2.2M) &
Proximity-to-Discovery (£600K), Wellcome Trust iTP (£800K) Awards and BBSRC IAA and Flexible
Talent Mobility Award (FTMA)).

This devolved portfolio funding enabled UoA4 staff to increase impact and undertake visits and
secondments to Industry. BBSRC FTMAs have allowed placements to explore analysis of laser
evoked potentials to establish a translational biomarker of pain processing with Eli Lilly and deliver


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
functional neuroanatomical mapping following cerebellar stimulation with Takeda. Staff time for
translational work is protected via allowances in workload models and impact sabbaticals.
Additional training opportunities are available through the UoB Centre for Innovation and
Entrepreneurship. Our Faculty restructuring and BN hubs are designed to facilitate staff in
meaningfully translating their research to maximise societal impact and benefit.

Each school has a dedicated Academic Impact Lead who pro-actively identifies ongoing research
with potential impact, and then to works with the RED Knowledge Exchange (KE) team to realise
commercialisation potential. This includes partnership development, identification of funding
sources (e.g., KTPs, and EBI-funded, RED-supported projects to increase success rates) and
advice on impact delivery. PS has an external advisory board, chaired by Steve Gatfield (group
chairman of Elmwood Design), consisting of representatives from industry, psychology, and charity
sectors to promote engagement with non-academic partners.

1f. Research integrity
BN is committed to supporting a strong research environment underpinned by a culture of integrity,
excellence and continual improvement. UoB has acted as advisor to the UK Research Integrity
Office and is a committed and early adopter of the principles of the Concordat to Support Research
Integrity, with clear policies and procedures that all staff are expected to follow. UoA4 staff, are at
the forefront of recent advances in research integrity and reproducibility, evidenced by influential
metascience publications in our submitted outputs (e.g. Atwood, Munafò and Penton-Voak were
co-authors of the Open Science Collaboration’s ‘Estimating the Reproducibility of Psychological
Science’ (Science, 2015) that has amassed 2650+ citations), and the profile of senior researchers
in the area (Lewandowsky gave evidence to UK Parliament, Science and Technology Committee,
Research Integrity Inquiry, 2017). UoA4 also champions UoB’s lead in the UK Reproducibility
Network (UKRN), of which is Munafò is co-founder and co-leads. Internally, Munafò is the
University-wide Academic Lead for Research Improvement and Integrity reporting directly to the
PVC for Research and Enterprise (Taylor, UoA12), and working to enhance a positive culture of
research integrity and improvement across UoA4 and the wider institution, by:
   •   Ensuring integrated training and development programmes for researchers at all stages of
       their research career.
   •   Ensuring dedicated academic and research professional support and mentoring at all
       career stages, including support for UKRN Local Networks.
   •   Assessing issues that lead to academic staff feeling pressured into taking “short cuts” and
       exploring wider improvements in research culture.
   •   Supporting national policy framework development, including working closely with UKRN.

Research improvement (including research integrity and research culture) is embedded within all
doctoral training programmes, and a modular series of short courses on topics ranging from data
skills to leadership is in development. Informally, there are several postgraduate-led initiatives (e.g.
ReproducibiliTea journal clubs). Building on UoB’s leadership in UKRN, a major philanthropic
investment (£1.6M) from industrialist John Climax will enable improvements in the robustness and
speed of translation of BN research.

UoB policy is to make all scientific outputs open access through deposition of manuscripts on our
PURE repository system. In UoA4, we have >85% compliance with this and increased take up will
be encouraged through new mandatory training modules on Open Access obligations as part of

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the introduction of new online annual review portal. Compliance is managed at school level via
monthly reports. A central repository for pre-prints and supplementary data is available, supported
by a long-term research data storage facility (RDSF) to ensure retention of key data and persistent
identification through assignment of British Library DataCite Digital Object Identifiers.


 2. People

2a. Staffing strategy and staff development
Our staffing strategy is to appoint, support and develop the very best individuals whose research
interests enhance our existing research themes, or enable and underpin new strategic directions.
We maintain a strong focus on EDI. Our goal is to make UoB a continually supportive and
collaborative environment for established PIs, as well as a desirable training destination for ECRs
(postgraduate and postdoctoral) where career progression is seen to be supported and valued,
building a BN that becomes internationally recognised as a launch pad for future leaders. BN
strives for success from teamwork, collaboration and collective excitement and celebration, rather
than encouraging ruthless competition, all directed with the ambition of conducting the best
neuroscience research, undertaken by the best neuroscientists.

New external appointments since REF2014:
  • Two Professorial appointments: Piggins strengthens our new BN sleep hub and leads
      PPN, and Mickes, whose applied eyewitness work further bolsters our existing strengths in
      memory.
  • Seven Lecturer/Senior Lecturer appointments (L/SL/Associate Professors): Anastasiades
      (ECR) and Quadflieg in Cognition and Memory, Ferriday (ECR), Haworth, and Maynard
      (ECR) in Brain Health and Wellbeing, and Chadderton and Dodson in Movement and
      Motor Control.
  • As part of UoB’s continuing commitment to neuroscience, we have interviewed for 3 new
      academic positions in neuroscience in 2021.
  • We attract excellent non-clinical ECRs through substantive externally-funded post-doctoral
      fellowships. Recent awardees include Miners (2019), Alzheimer’s Research UK Senior
      Research Fellowship (£420K); Maynard (ECR), a recipient (2017) of an ESRC future
      leader fellowship and a ESRC New Investigator award. Anastasiades (ECR) secured
      (2020) a Marie Curie Fellowship. Skinner was awarded a UKRI innovation fellowship to
      work in digital health. We have also supported internal fellows from BN funds (Bellesi and
      de Vivo) whom have since (2020) secured lectureships at leading Italian universities.
      Domanski and Skatova (ECR) are Turing Institute Fellows and DasGupta is a recent
      recipient of a Wellcome Trust Sir Henry Dale Fellowship. Since REF2014 we have worked
      to increase our capacity to similarly attract clinical ECRs (see below).
  • Success in attracting external fellowships is underpinned by a recent novel in-house
      funding scheme, the “Vice Chancellors Fellowships” (VCF). Overall, UoB has appointed 41
      VCFs at an average cost of £0.2M each. In UoA4 VCFs supported Dasgupta (through a
      generous alumnus donation from the de Pass family), and Skatova before their external
      awards. A further VCF was awarded to Williams (then in PS, who went on to a Lecturer in
      Marketing post at UoB).




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Internal promotions via an EDI-directed procedure are a key means of recognising staff
achievement in research, teaching and collegiality which has greatly benefitted our gender
balance.
   •   Six UoA4 members have been promoted to Professor: Haworth, Leonards, Luyt,
       Robinson, Warburton and Scott-Samuel.
   •   Four others have been appointed to Associate Professor: Attwood, Coulthard, Wong, and
       Hodge.

Staff development: Staff are supported through mentoring (including Bristol Clear) and staff
development workshops and courses (including training in leadership, teaching and management)
and through annual staff review and development appraisals.
   • Workload models provide transparency in balancing teaching, research, administration,
       translational and wider academic contributions. Newly appointed staff have reduced
       teaching and administration loads to facilitate establishing successful research
       programmes. For clinical staff, consideration is given to shared NHS and UoB job plans,
       which are reviewed and approved by Department or School Heads annually.
   • Senior staff mentor new staff, especially research fellows. In UoA5, an external mentor
       scheme was trialled in 2015 for all academic staff (PDRAs included). Mentors are ex-UoB
       staff who host in-house sessions with academic staff and postgraduates and provide career
       and well-being support (reporting to EDI Committee). This led to clear improvements from
       in 2014 where only 60% of men and 38% of women felt they received effective career
       support. In 2017 this had risen to 70% of men and 63% of women (Staff Satisfaction
       Survey). This scheme is now used across the Faculty of Life Sciences that hosts PPN and
       PS staff. A similar mentorship scheme was piloted in BMS in 2019 and undertaken again in
       2020 and will be part of ongoing EDI-supported changes to supporting staff in BMS.
   • All new lecturers join the CREATE scheme, allowing participants to become Fellows of
       Advance HE. For female members of staff, there are now additional specific leadership
       schemes: the Female Leadership initiative (Fli) and AURORA.
   • The University Research Fellowship (URF) scheme allows applicants teaching relief to
       pursue new research projects. Five UoA4 staff have held URFs since 2014.

Tailored support for early career postdoctoral researchers: Postdoctoral Research Associates
(PDRAs) are a large proportion of our workforce (~65%), and central to our research success. UoB
operates an inclusive policy to improve job security for those employed on fixed term contracts,
ensuring they are named researchers or Researcher Co-Investigators on grant applications where
appropriate, and these staff have priority for upcoming vacancies through redeployment processes
prior to recruitment going externally.
   •   PDRAs have access to extensive training opportunities and are treated identically to core-
       funded staff in terms of annual staff review and training. Much of this is supported via
       Bristol Clear (see Ref5a), an institution-wide body created in 2018 to provide mentoring,
       guidance on research careers and links to services and opportunities across UoB (e.g. Staff
       Development Services) and externally.
   •   BN’s PDRAs run a ‘Circuit Neuroscience Seminars’ series, hosting international peers,
       notably those transitioning to independence.
   •   The UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers has been adopted
       by UoB (one of the first institutions to do so) and our employment practices and policies



                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       operate in line with its principles. UoB has held a European Commission Human Resources
       Excellence in Research Award since 2010 (renewed in 2019).
   •   PDRAs and ECRs participate on new BN hub steering groups, thereby shaping and running
       workshops and organising the annual BN research symposium.
   •   Bespoke training for ECRs in Responsible Research and Innovation has been prepared,
       tested and launched via the Horizon 2020 PERFORM project (a three-year research project
       (2015-2018), centred on Paris, Barcelona and Bristol) using performing arts techniques to
       inspire and motivate young people to develop a more reflective and holistic understanding
       of science.
   •   Career development is further supported through ongoing availability of successive
       postdoctoral fellowships including bridging fund opportunities, where required, from EBI and
       School funds. CV review has been added to the staff annual review process, encouraging
       staff to reflect on their trajectories for career advancement, identify areas for improvement
       and development opportunities with their line managers to facilitate and increase
       competitiveness for progression, promotion or for future employment.

Tailored support and pathways for clinical Early Career Researchers: Alongside the mentored
training track for both basic and cognitive neuroscientists, we have parallel clinical-facing schemes
including our clinical academic training track, and bespoke EBI-funded clinical primers to attract
talented post-graduate medics, dentists and veterinary professionals to re-enter research. These
opportunities nurture our scientific and clinical scientific staff, increase their competitiveness
towards subsequent PhD and fellowship funding, and develop future leaders.
   •   An important early career pathway is provided by the Integrated Clinical Academic Training
       (CAT) Pathway (Bristol ICAT). This provides a supported and mentored clinical academic
       training programme for Medics, Dentists and Vets and aligns a series of complimentary
       training components to develop future clinician scientists from studentships through
       predoctoral work (INSPIRE research awards, EBI clinical primer grants, Academic Clinical
       Fellowships), doctoral studies (£5.1M Wellcome Trust supported GW4-CAT PhD
       programme) and postdoctoral studies via clinical lectureships to provide “cradle to
       consultant” training. Since 2017, 4 of the 12 GW4-CAT appointments have been in BN.
   •   Since 2014, a strong pipeline for clinical neuroscience research capacity has grown
       evidenced by the appointment of 7 NIHR-funded Academic Clinical Fellows (ACFs), and 6
       NIHR Academic Clinical Lecturers (including Rolinski (ECR)), where the majority (n=4) are
       based at the Brain Centre and working on dementia neurology (the remainder were
       Southmead Hospital-based Neurosurgeons). This growth in clinician training in
       Neuroscience is further supported by additional Academic Foundation Programme (AFP)
       candidates annually, each getting 4 months of research time. Through effective prospective
       management of doctoral candidates and NIHR and UoB support, successful PhD fellows
       graduate to lectureships to continue mentored post-doctoral development and support in
       the pursuit of more senior fellowships with major funders. The success of this mentored
       support approach is evidenced by recent externally-funded success in BN: 1 MRC Senior
       Clinical Fellowship, 2 Wellcome Trust-funded PhDs and 1 Alzheimer’s Society Junior
       Fellowship. This clinical academic cohort is supported through a combination of the NIHR
       ACF/ACL and GW4CAT schemes led and coordinated by Professor Debbie Sharp OBE
       (UoA2) and PVC Iredale (UoA1). Further support is provided by a UoB-funded
       administrators and BMS Postgraduate and Research Directorate Kehoe.



                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2b Doctoral training
UoA4 hosts a vibrant community of doctoral and masters-level research students and has awarded
255 PhDs since REF2014. UoB’s success in open competitions for doctoral training programmes
(DTPs), particularly those offering interdisciplinary training opportunities as both a single institute
and partner in GW4, offers an outstanding doctoral training environment.

Cohort structure and training programmes:
The postgraduate student body typically contains about 100 PhD and 10 MRes students (>60%
female, >15% BAME). There is a strong focus on diversifying the research student cohort, with
specific policies being actioned by the BBSRC SWBio DTP and Wellcome Trust.
   •   PGR student administration is managed through the FLS and FHS Graduate Schools,
       which in turn are integrated within the Bristol Doctoral College (BDC). The BDC organises
       UoB’s Personal and Professional Development programme for postgraduate research
       students, complementing programme-specific and Faculty level training that was
       commended by the Quality Assurance Agency in the 2016 Higher Education Review of
       UoB.
   •   In 2018, UoB launched a new centrally located Postgraduate Researcher Hub operated by
       BDC. This centre is dedicated to supporting the personal and professional development of
       postgraduate researchers alongside the promotion of their health and wellbeing in
       partnership with both internal and external support services, such as the UoB Wellbeing
       Service and Bristol NHS Wellbeing Therapies.
   •   Many PGR students within BN belong to Doctoral Training Programmes that provide
       structured research training, particularly in Year 1. The Wellcome Trust Neural Dynamics
       DTP, is a flagship programme led by Apps. The first cohort completed in October 2015,
       and all graduating students secured postdoctoral positions in prestigious international
       research groups or in industry. These students have catalysed new collaborations and
       novel avenues of research combining the latest neuroscience methods and computational
       approaches and developing the two-way interaction between our understanding of brain
       and of machine intelligence. Workshops on gender and assertiveness, regular wellbeing
       tutorials, and an international student exchange programme with Bordeaux Neuroscience
       have all been other outcomes. The Wellcome Trust also funds the GW4-CATscheme (lead
       Iredale, £5M, see section 2a), and the Dynamic Molecular Cell DTP (5 BN students in this
       REF period). On average 9 students in our cohort are funded by the Wellcome Trust.
   •   Cohort students benefit from a wide range of DTP hosted activities e.g. annual student
       conferences, scientific industrial site visits, thematic-based seminars, three-month
       internships and student-arranged away days, and career development activities. The strong
       cohort identity developed in these programmes provides valuable and much appreciated
       peer support for students throughout their doctoral training. Other local and GW4
       programmes that fund UoA4 students include:
           o BBSRC SWBio DTP. This SW cross-institutional partnership lead by UoB (~£30M),
                has ~130 PGRs across the partnership with ~50 based at UoB, 11 funded in UoA4.
           o ESRC South West Doctoral Training Centre (SWDTC) provides postgraduate
                research training in the social sciences and psychology across Bristol, Exeter and
                Bath and has been allocated 41 ESRC 1+3 studentships annually (8 UoA4
                studentships in review period).




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           o   MRC GW4 biomed DTP (£4M; 18 studentships annually). The MRC IEU has also
               supported 5 UoA4 relevant studentships across the period, with 10 students on
               average funded by the MRC in any given year.
           o EPSRC DTP COMPASS, which provides training statistical and computational
               techniques of data science, and the recently awarded EPSRC DTP in Digital Health
               and Care, with an intake of 10 students annually who can work within UoA4.
   •   Studentships are also supported or partially supported (e.g., CASE funding) through
       industrial collaborations (e.g., with Qinetiq, Eli Lilly, Hello Bio, NeuroSolutions, Compass,
       and Cambridge Cognition).
   •   Additional students are funded by charities (e.g., BHF, Leverhulme, Alzheimer’s Society),
       and, internationally, the European Research Council, foreign governments (e.g., Malaysian
       Government, China Scholarship Scheme) and overseas research agencies.
   •   UoB postgraduate scholarships enable us to attract the very best UK and overseas
       students in addition to Dean’s Scholarships and the China Scholarship schemes.
   •   We also host 10-15 Masters by Research students annually, many of whom stay for
       doctoral study.

Supervisory structure:
   • All PhD students have at least two supervisors, with some second supervisors from outside
      their School (often from UoAs 1 & 2 for health-based students, or UoA11 for neural
      dynamics PhDs), which encourages good practice, collaboration, and interdisciplinarity.
   • They also have an annual review with a separate advisory panel to review progression
      decisions.
   • Student well-being and diversity are of paramount importance to us, and students have
      access to multiple forms of support: supervisors/advisory panel, School Graduate and
      Personal Tutors, a team of 11 Faculty-based Wellbeing advisers, and the Student Support
      Service providing access to counselling, GPs/medical and disability advisers. The informal
      support of the DTPs along with the strong cohort-based sense of community are also
      notable, as is the scope where needed for part-time study, medical suspensions and
      extensions, as enshrined in UoB student and study regulations.
   • Students nearing the end of their training are eligible for BBSRC FTMA financial support
      (UoB awarded £251K to scale up existing relationships or develop collaborative projects
      with academic or industrial partners).
   • PhD students get the same career development and training opportunities available to
      ECRs. A specifically tailored module in our CREATE programme enables PGRs to gain
      insight into academic careers while gaining a postgraduate certificate in teaching in Higher
      Education. The Careers Service and the BDC work closely to support PGR student career-
      readiness e.g., the promotion of the Bristol-Plus award for PGR students to enhance
      employability skills.

2c Equality and Diversity
UoB is strongly committed to support equity, diversity and inclusion (EDI) and aspires to become a
sector leader in the delivery of this key priority. UoB’s EDI governance structure was recently
overhauled to better monitor, evaluate and share activity and progress. Our institutional champion
for EDI is the DVC & Provost, whilst the PVC for Student Experience provides specific leadership
on student inclusion. Both are part of the EDI oversight group and Inclusion Forum, where good
practice is shared, achievements celebrated, and common challenges addressed (see REF 5a).


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   All Schools in this UoA hold either Silver (BMS) or Bronze (PS, PPN) Athena Swan awards.
   •   Diversity data are routinely collected and regularly analysed on our staff and student
       populations to inform activity to better attract, retain and develop groups that are currently
       under-represented. Progress is monitored against Strategic Performance Indicators
       outlined in REF5a. BN has actively sought to address EDI issues by facilitating the
       promotion of five female staff to Professor, and appointing one external female Professor,
       as well as promoting three female Senior Lecturers to Associate Professor. We have
       increased UoA4 female staff from 23% in 2014 to 31% in 2021.
   •   UoA4 has several school-based designated EDI champions. School/Faculty SWAN/EDI
       committees maintain well-developed and informative web pages and take an anticipatory
       approach to enable and support a culture of equity and collegiality. This ensures that
       policies and practices (including maternity/paternity, adoption, and care leave) are met.
       Schools are committed to decolonising the curriculum and to increasing the visibility and
       leadership opportunities of BAME staff and students across all media, with online courses
       available to staff.
   •   Kehoe (BMS Research Director) sits on a research and outcomes special interest group,
       involving a mix of both White and BAME staff and students in the newly formed BMS
       Medical Anti-Racism Taskforce (MART). BMS MART is tasked with monitoring wellbeing
       and representation of under-represented staff, addressing staff training and BAME
       attainment gaps to inform workforce planning.
   •   Our Appropriate Behaviours Policy provides pro-active routes for dealing with harassment,
       bullying and other inappropriate behaviours, and includes access to both a ‘Report +
       Support’ tool and an in-house mediation service. Awareness of this support was raised with
       a recent ‘Stand Up and Speak Out’ initiative.
   •   11 School Mental Health Champions have been appointed to recognise these important
       challenges. Mental health support has increased with the establishment of UoB policies for
       staff and students, and substantial UoB investment in in-house counselling and health
       services (additional £1.5M from 2018, and 30FTE employed in a student-support well-being
       service).
   •   Our diverse international PGR community is supported pastorally by the International
       Office, helping students make a successful transition to UK higher education, whilst similar
       support exists for staff with concerns or issues following EU exit.
   •   BN PGR students recently established the Inclusive Research Collective, an initiative to
       educate UoB staff and students on non-inclusive research practices and to challenge
       biased methodologies within biomedical and healthcare research.
   •   Progress on EDI is measured through our involvement with a range of external
       accreditation schemes that recognise best practice in EDI such as the Athena SWAN
       Charter, Race Equality Charter, Stonewall Diversity Champions programme, and the
       Disability Confident Scheme.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3a. Research funding
In awards metrics (2018/2019) amongst UK Universities UoB ranked 5th for BBSRC funding, 10th
nationally for MRC funding, and 6th for Wellcome Trust funding and had the top success rate for
competitive UKRI awards in the Russell Group (38% award rate by number).



                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The unit has an external research grant spend of ~£63 million over the period of assessment as
detailed in REF4b. Total annual grant spend has been maintained at £8-10m. Our income is
derived from diverse sources, primarily competitive, including UKRI, NIHR, major charities and
industrial partners. In addition to the extensive support gained through early career awards
(detailed below), major sponsors are the MRC, BBSRC, Wellcome Trust, H2020, and ERC. The
breakdown of these grants is 49% UK Research Councils, 30% UK charities, 9% UK Government
and Industry, 8% EU and 2% Overseas.

Individual awards are highlighted throughout this statement, but key funding include awards from
the Wellcome Trust (Joint Senior Investigators, Warburton/Bashir (£2M); Investigator, Mellor
(£1.1M) and Chadderton (£1.5M), Senior Fellowship, Jones (£1.3M)), and ERC senior
investigator awards to Collingridge (£2M) and Bowers (£1.8M). Lightman’s (£1.8M, MRC), and
Murphy (£1.1M), Mellor (£875k), all BBSRC.

Considerable income is not captured in these figures, where grants are administered through other
UoAs. These are numerous and include:
   •   £23M NIHR BRC (Brunstrom, Rogers, Munafò & Penton-Voak co-Is).
   •   UoA4 involvement (Gilchrist, Ludwig) in the MyWorld (£30M investment from UKRI), and
       the BVI EPSRC platform grant (£1.4M).
   •   Whone’s involvement in the NIHR HTA Chief-PD trial (£2.1M).
   •   Jones’ contribution to a Wellcome Strategic Award led by Cardiff (DEFINE - Defining
       Endophenotypes from Integrated Neurosciences, £6M, 2013-19).

3b. Facilities and organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact
Research and Enterprise Development (RED, see REF5a), overseen by the PVC for Research
and Enterprise (Canagarajah to 2019, now Taylor), is a central UoB division with 80+ specialist
staff, who work with academics on multiple levels to help sustain and grow research activity. This
complements Iredale’s PVC leadership of Health and Life Sciences, and includes identifying
funding opportunities, supporting the development and sponsorship of research proposals,
coordinating large, collaborative or complex bids, negotiating research and consultancy contracts,
strategic project management, and improving the impact and commercialisation of research by
working with business. RED also ensures the delivery of robust research governance policies (and
training where appropriate) across UoB for a range of research activities, including research ethics,
infrastructure; data storage and management; appropriate use of animals and human tissue in
research; grant management and other regulatory issues.

UoB supports our research with impressive institutional facilities and infrastructure developments,
notably:

UoB Animal Services Unit (ASU): In vivo facilities include a barriered breeding facility (~1000m2)
holding ~120 lines of genetically altered mice; and multi-use research facilities totalling ~2000m2.
Neuroscientists represent ~50% of the users of ASU, which include animal holding space, surgical
procedure rooms and behaviour rooms that allow long term electrophysiological recording studies
in rodents. Dedicated procedure rooms are available for the use of viral vectors up to Category II
and a 2-photon microscope (Ashby) for in vivo live imaging research. Total direct spend for the
unit is £2M per year (~50:50 consumables and staffing) with total UoB staffing levels in 2020 of



                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
28.5 FTE plus agency staff and attributed costs of ~£5M annually. £1M was invested in ASU
during the COVID-19 pandemic to upgrade service provision.

Bristol Translational Biomedical Research Centre (TBRC): This £6.3M (UoB, MRC, BHF co-
funded) national facility for large animal research (opened 2016), is located on our Home Office-
approved animal maintenance facilities at the Bristol Veterinary School, Langford campus. It
includes a research hospital, operating to NHS standards, with induction room, surgical facilities
and post-operative critical care, and is complemented by state-of-the-art imaging (3T MRI scanner
and Multi-photon microscope) co-located with a Cardiac Catheterisation laboratory, an intensive
care unit, and preclinical bio-banking with NHS type Cryo storage. The current pipeline of TBRC-
supported research projects has a forecasted value of >£20m and underpinned Bienemann’s ICS.

Wolfson Bioimaging Facility and Flow Cytometry Facility: Ashby, Mellor, and Piggins have
used these state-of-the-art microscopy and flow cytometry facilities (£3.1M capital investment since
REF2014), providing access to two both electron microscopes (including Cryo EM) and advanced
light microscopes. This enables high-resolution live cell imaging and correlative light and electron
microscopy. ~33% of neuroscientists use this facility. In addition, reflecting the growing strength of
GW4, and complimenting the jointly funded Cryo EM facility supporting all GW4 institutions, UoB
made the strategic decision, supported jointly at the level of the Vice Chancellors of both
institutions, to forge stronger relationships with Cardiff across neuroscience. This capitalises on
existing collaborations (e.g. Kehoe US $300K with Good (Cardiff), on AD; Thapar, (Cardiff, £4M)
with colleagues in UoA2 on ADHD), and increasing numbers of shared PhDs (Wellcome Trust,
GW4, and Charity funded). Accordingly, UoB has made the strategic decision to support Human
imaging research via the outstanding CUBRIC facility in Cardiff, extending our translational
imaging pipeline from the Wolfson, through TBRC to CUBRIC. This decision has allowed UoB to
rapidly pivot to support local NHS diagnostic backlogs resulting from the pandemic, with an
ongoing £1.7M refurbishment and restructuring of the Bristol Clinical Research Imaging Centre
(used by ~35% of neuroscientists) by UoB and UHBWT. This will serve new clinical research
priorities, including provision of Sleep laboratories and access to 3T MRI scanning for “high priority
rapid-response” research, in shared arrangements alongside NHS service needs to solidify human
translational research in UoA4.

Advanced Computing Research Centre (ACRC): The Centre includes a highly-parallelized
super-computer facility (BlueCrystal and Blue Pebble), operating both Phase 3 (serial-optimised)
and Phase 4 (parallel-optimised) nodes supporting more than 800 researchers across UoB, (total
investment in the review period £10M, with a further £3M in progress). ~15% of researchers in this
UoA are High Performance Computing users, using more than 21,000 CPU hours per month in
2020. The Research Data Storage Facility provides integrated resilient petascale storage to all
researchers. ACRC remains central to UoB’s commitment (£2M every year) to meet the increasing
demands of AI, big data and simulation resources. A funding boost via a £1M Catalyst award from
Hewlett Packard Enterprise aligns with the UoB-led GW4 Isambard project, awarded £4.1M by
EPSRC in 2020, which has brought a new ARM-based Tier 2 high-performance computing service
to UK-based scientists.

Pre-clinical and clinical Neuroscience Research Facilities (Southmead Hospital): This
hospital campus was completely rebuilt over the past decade, including an extension (2014, £2M
UoB contribution) to the Learning & Research academic building to house several clinical
neuroscience groups. This allowed co-location of pre-clinical and clinical neuroscience researchers

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of neurological and neurodegenerative diseases in improved shared facilities, accommodated the
growing South West Dementia Brain Bank (see below), and provided accessible laboratory
facilities for the Bristol Brain Centre (2015, £1.5M refurbishment). This carefully designed facility
houses three clinical specialties, their corresponding research activity and a drug infusion suite.

UoB Research Tissue Banks: UoA4 researchers (Kehoe, Love, Miners, Ashby) have benefitted
from access and expertise at the BMS-hosted Human Tissue Authority (HTA) licensed South West
Dementia Brain Bank (SWDBB). It is one of the longest established post-mortem tissue banks and
a consistently high performer in the MRC UK Brain Bank Network (UKBBN), which specialises in
supporting ageing, dementia and neurodegeneration-related research. SWDBB has provided post-
mortem brain materials to national and international neuroscience researchers - since 2014
SWDBB has provided annually, on average, ~4000 separate pieces of tissue to researchers. Other
UoA4 relevant biobanks within UoB, include that of the Children of the 90s project (ALSPAC,
reported in UoA2).

Bristol Trials Centre (BTC) is a UKCRC-registered clinical trials unit, with a portfolio of over 40
ongoing multi-centre clinical trials. The BTC received £1.8M (NIHR) in 2019/20 to support trials
activity, compared to £0.84M in 2014; this increase corresponds with ~30% increase in open NIHR
trials in this assessment period. BTC supported Kehoe’s RADAR study (awarded pre-REF2014,
completed 2019) and more recently the Chief PD trial (Whone as CI, £2M), and MRC EMCG
projects (Munafò & Penton-Voak).

The SPHERE house is an EPSRC-funded (£15M total funding, Gilchrist, Munafò & Jones, co-Is,
£3M in current REF period) multi-disciplinary project led by the Digital Health Engineering
Research Group (UoA12). SPHERE is designed to significantly advance the state of the art in
behavioural data collection at home. The system requirements were determined by a clinicians and
clinical scientists and have delivered an integrated suite of data capture technologies, a
communications infrastructure, algorithms for data fusion, and a machine learning pipeline to
process the raw data into actionable information to support research in a variety of clinical and
epidemiological studies. SPHERE was recently deployed to houses of people with Mild Cognitive
Impairment (Coulthard); the main SPHERE house is currently housing Parkinson’s disease
patients (Whone).


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4a Academic collaborations
Snowball metrics indicate that of the 1900+ outputs produced by UoA4 researchers in this
assessment period, ~47% have international collaborators. A further 35% have UK collaborators,
with Oxford, Cambridge, UCL, KCL and Cardiff the most common UK University partners. Our local
NBT and UHBW NHS Trusts are our 2nd and 6th collaborating institutions and are collaborators on
~400 UoA4 papers since REF2014. Our top international collaborator (8th overall) is the National
Institutes of Health in the USA. Six percent of our papers are co-authored with collaborators from
industry. These figures reflect that BN is, from the ground up, an interdisciplinary organisation that
demonstrably spans neuroscience research from bench to bedside, and as a result, collaboration
is integral to our work. This is facilitated by the University-wide and Specialist Research Institutes
(SRIs, see REF5a), which share similar interdisciplinary and translational agendas for research as
described below. Our new BN hubs are explicitly designed to be a funnel through which these

                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
collaborations can occur, promoting interdisciplinary work and allowing rapid progress along
translational pathways where appropriate. For example, ‘Disruption of sleep-dependent motor
memory consolidation in schizophrenia’ (Lilly Innovation Fellowship Award, 2016) is a single
project drawing from all four hubs, alongside industrial collaborators and GW4 partners (Cardiff).
The final elements of translation to humans are possible through our strong links with the NHS in
Bristol which sponsored several UoA4 trials (e.g. Kehoe (ISRCTN93682878), Whone,
ISRCTN19880883), Lightman/Russell (ISRCTN671937733, ISRCTN22146594), Wilkins
(EudraCT2017-003084-34)) and are detailed below.

4b. Interdisciplinary links with other strategic UoB institutes and groups
University-wide interdisciplinary research activity (see also REF5a), including this UoA, is
effectively fostered through the virtual URIs since the last REF. EBI has administered a range of
competitively awarded research funding schemes including: Returning Carers Scheme, Early
Career and Senior Fellowships, Clinical Primers, Translational Acceleration and Knowledge
Transfer, and Discipline Hopping awards that UoA4 neuroscientists have gained (~£1.6M) from
various awards since 2014. Strategically targeted small-to-medium sized awards promoted multi-
and inter-disciplinary research including recent rapid-response COVID-19 projects quantifying the
psychological impacts and the utility of digital interventions during lockdown. Here UoA4
researchers were key to EBI achieving its role in co-ordinating an institutional response to the
COVID-19 pandemic whilst leading new research into the effects of COVID-19 on psychology,
mental health, and behaviour (e.g. awards to Hood and Lewandowsky to investigate COVID-19
related social isolation and privacy concerns respectively). EBI also promoted a suite of projects
studying sleep disruption in relation to brain development, chronic pain and schizophrenia liability;
and a recent focus on researching and supporting student mental health. In support of BN
research, EBI also partners with external funders, e.g. £100K EBI/Rosetrees Trust Mental Health
Research funding call (2020), whilst its discipline hopping scheme allowed several UoA4 scientists
to collaborate with the MRC IEU (UoA2). Overall, since 2014 several of BN’s best young non-
clinical and clinical talent gained fellowships schemes and created an environment for effective
collaboration with external partners within (e.g. Bristol Health Partners and the NIHR Applied
Research Collaboration West (ARC West)) and outside Bristol (e.g. other universities and
industry).

4c Links with the NHS, social care services and local councils
Strong links with the NHS and the broader community support successful translation of BN
research. The Bristol Brain Centre at Southmead Hospital (part of North Bristol NHS Trust, opened
in 2015 after the £1.5M refurbishment (funded by Southmead Hospital Charity, UoB and a local
charity (BRACE)) of a building near UoB’s Clinical Neuroscience laboratories and the South West
Dementia Brain Bank (SWDBB) brings together academic-led multi-disciplinary clinical research
teams in clinical neurology (dementia, multiple sclerosis and Parkinson’s Disease). This facility
enables neuroscientists and NHS clinicians to work with patients researching mechanisms,
diagnosis and treatment of common debilitating neurological diseases. The Centre hosts BrAMS
(Bristol & Avon MS Service), the MOVE-hIT@NBT (the Health Integration Team for PD and other
movement disorders), and the ReMemBr Group (clinicians, researchers, psychologists and nurses
involved in dementia research and clinical services improvement), and the main office of BRACE
(an independent charity supporting dementia research). The high footfall of patients in the Bristol
Brain Centre is an important interface for BN clinical neuroscience research in the NHS services



                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(11736 patients were seen in the year to April 2020, from which 432 were entered into 36 different
research studies).

UoA4 staff interdigitate with NHS colleagues at all levels from NIHR Academic Fellowship and
Lectureship to advanced fellowships as well as clinical PhDs and MDs. The interface is overseen
by Iredale and Norman who are respectively Non-Executive Directors of North Bristol Trust (NBT)
and University Hospitals of Bristol and Weston (UHBW) NHS Trust. Bristol Health Partners (BHP)
was formed (2013) to embody and develop the strategic alignment between UoB, UHBW NHS
trust, NBT and Avon and Wiltshire mental Health Partnership, three Clinical Commissioning
Groups: Bristol, North Somerset and South Gloucestershire, the two Bristol Universities (UoB and
UWE) and the three Local Councils. More recently, Sirona, the newly-commissioned provider of
adult community health services in our region, and the Bristol-based NHS Blood and Transplant
(NHSBT) have also joined BHP. Strong links with local NHS Trusts (15 UoA4 clinical academic
staff) and council organisations promote excellent clinical and translational neuroscience research
alongside health education and patient care. The effectiveness of these links is attested to by the
2020 NIHR/NHS award of Academic Health Sciences Centre (AHSC) status (Director: Wynick
(UoA4 clinical academic, and Joint R&D Director for UHBW and NBT NHS Trusts)); one of only
eight such centres in the UK. The AHSC coordinates several Health Integration Teams (HITs),
unique to Bristol as multi-disciplinary vehicles to tackle health priorities, and oversees mental
health and neuroscience, a key priority area for the West of England Academic Health Science
Networks (AHSN). This allows UoA4 researchers to apply our research excellence to healthcare
provision, education, and training to improve health. The Dementia HIT, led from the Bristol Brain
Centre, warrants mention as a global case study in the London Health Commission’s Better Health
for London report.

4d External academic and industrial links
A focal point for regional cooperation is the formal GW4 alliance. BN leads on annual GW4 Early
Career Neuroscience Day conferences, hosting neuroscience PhD students enrolled on BBSRC
SWBio, ESRC SW DTP, and MRC GW4 Biomed DTP programmes and leading the Wellcome
Trust GW4 Clinical Academic Training (GW4 CAT) PhD programme.

Highlights of further research collaboration include:
   •   The Tobacco and Alcohol Research Group plays a significant role in the UK Centre for
       Tobacco and Alcohol Studies, a £3.4M programme of training and research funded by
       Research Councils UK as part of the Global Challenges Research Fund.
   •   Love served until recently (2013-2020) as the Director of the MRC UK Brain Bank Network
       (UKBBN) where he oversaw transformative changes in ensuring brain banks work
       collaborate as a true network where the shared tissue archive is handled with shared best
       practice. His contributions have facilitated accessibility of resources to researchers in the
       UK and Internationally. His leadership drove the creation of a bespoke UKKBN database
       (now with ~1000 registered users), providing clinical, research and neuropathological data
       alongside tissue, providing a single point of application for researchers to apply for tissue
       access. UKBBN integrates and links all bank archives with state-of-the-art sample tracking
       systems that were developed and piloted in Bristol and which now ensure exemplary
       sample traceability across the network that has been commended by the Human Tissue
       Authority (HTA). The UKBBN database now provides important data usage and impact data



                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       for funders, the HTA and research ethics committees and since REF2014 UKBBN received
       632 tissue requests and supported 484 publications.
   •   Kehoe conceived and led the VICCCS study (Alzheimer’s Dement, 2018) to develop new
       consensus guidelines for the nomenclature and classification of forms of Vascular Cognitive
       Impairment (VCI). Following this he formed a new VCI Genetics Consortium to undertake
       the largest (to date) Genome Wide Association Study of VCI, in collaboration with the EU-
       funded European Alzheimer’s DNA Bank (EADB), expected to report in 2021 due to
       COVID-19 delays.
   •   Kehoe is also PI of Bristol’s involvement as a recruitment centre and partnering brain bank
       (SWDBB) in the Alzheimer’s Society/Alzheimer’s Research UK co-funded Brains for
       Dementia Research Initiative (£7.4M overall since 2011 and 5 years committed from 2021).
   •   MyWorld (Gilchrist, co-I) has received £30 million from UKRI with a further £16m
       committed from regional and national and international collaborators. It will provide 1,000m2
       of collaborative R&D facilities, fund innovative research and development projects, improve
       skills and exploit digital formats to create new experiences in fiction, documentary, games
       and live performance, enabling the region's creative sector and technology organisations to
       collaborate and connect regionally, nationally and globally.
   •   This UoA has hosted nine distinguished overseas visiting fellows though the UoB Benjamin
       Meaker scheme.

Industrial collaborations: BN anchors many industrial collaborations, including PhD studentships,
£0.5M collaborative project grants, >£1M research programmes, and co-funded research hubs.
Joint projects undertaken during this submission period include partnerships with Takeda (BBSRC,
PI: Apps); Boerhinger Ingelheim (BBSRC, PI Robinson); Cambridge Cognition (who fund a
research hub in PS, and supported a KTP in collaboration with Penton-Voak & Munafò); Astra
Zeneca (Munafò); Qinetiq (Scott-Samuel, Baddeley); Nestle, GSK, Unilever, Kraft, Mars Wrigley
(all with Brunstrom and Rogers); DREEM (‘Coup de Coeur’ award, PI: Coulthard in a study of
sleep in Lewy Body dementia); Renishaw (Bienemann); Canon, Neurolixis and Campden
Instruments (Behavioural neuroscience R&D, Jones, Abdala, Warburton); Neurosolutions
(Pickering); Aardman animations and the BBC (EPSRC platform grant and IAA grants with
Gilchrist, Ludwig). Molnar had recent success (BBSRC-funded Knowledge Transfer Fund)
enabling researchers in the Pharma firm, Hello Bio, to work in labs of PPN.

Most recently, BN’s longstanding and productive relationship with Eli Lilly & Co.’s Centre for
Collaborative Neuroscience (involving 5 joint Lilly-Bristol Postdoctoral Fellows and 6 PhD
studentships; 2 Lilly Innovation Fellowship Awards and 3 CASE PhD students during submission
period) culminated in Lilly selecting Bristol as a UK base for a BN-Lilly Translational Neuroscience
Unit, contributing £1M to continue neuroscience projects following closure of their UK research
base, and to liaise with Lilly’s new ‘Neuroscience Next Generation Therapeutics’ programme in
Cambridge, MA.

4e. Maximising the impact of research through effective communication to the public and
key beneficiaries.
UoA4 staff provide high-quality free events to enhance public understanding of science. These
include the highly-acclaimed Bristol Neuroscience Festival, which attracts ~5,000 visitors to a
three-day research and education programme and has been modelled by other Institutions; the
Brain Box Challenge, an award-winning primary school outreach programme engaging with more
than 3,000 local school children; and our support of the internationally designated Brain Awareness

                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Week education programme that has attracted ~5,000 people annually to the weeklong research,
education and engagement programme. Since 2014 these events have seen hundreds of
neuroscience staff and students engage more than 28,000 local people of all ages with their
research and knowledge. Post-event data shows that >90% of visitors to the BN Festival were
more aware of the benefits of neuroscience research after attending the event. In 2016 it won the
STEMNet regional award for STEM Event of the Year winner. Robinson won the 2016 Public
Understanding of Neuroscience award from the British Neuroscience Association (BNA).
With ESRC IAA funding Hood founded Speakezee.org - the world's largest searchable database
of expert speakers enabling speakers to engage with their audience and for organisers to find
relevant experts to talk at their event.

4f. Prestige indicators of national and international research citizenship.
Honours, Fellowships, and other awards:
   •   Collingridge: Brain Prize (2016) and CBE (2019).
   •   Lightman: FRS (2017); President of the British Neuroscience Association (2016-2019).
   •   Lumb: President of the Physiological Society (1st female president); Patrick Wall Lecture
       by the British Pain Society.
   •   Apps: Royal Society Leverhulme Trust Senior Research Fellowship (2014-15).
   •   DasGupta: Sir Henry Dale Fellowship (2020-2025).
   •   Jones: MRC Senior Fellow to 2016 then Wellcome Trust Senior Fellow (2016-2022).
   •   Pickering: Wellcome Trust Senior Clinical Fellowship (2009-2016).
   •   Skatova: UKRI Future Leader Fellow (2020) and Turing Fellow.
   •   Anastasiades: NARSAD Young Investigator Award for Brain and Behavior Research
       Foundation (2020).
   •   Domanski: Crick-Turing Institute Fellowship (2020-2022).
   •   Maynard: ESRC Outstanding Early Career Impact Prize (2014).
   •   Haworth: Philip Leverhulme Prize (2018) and the British Psychological Society Spearman
       Medal for outstanding published works in Psychology (2017).
   •   Hood: British Psychology Society Distinguished Contribution to British Developmental
       Psychology.
   •   Lewandowsky: Humboldt Research Award, Alexander von Humboldt Foundation,
       Germany, 2019; Fellow, Association for Psychological Science, and Fellow, Academy of
       Social Sciences (UK), both from 2017.
   •   Munafò: Presidents' Award for Distinguished Contributions to Psychological Knowledge
       (2017) from the British Psychological Society.
   •   Mickes: Psychonomic Society Early Career award in 2018.
   •   Rolinski: World Sleep Society Young Investigator Award in 2015.

4g. Other contributions to the discipline:
Journal editorships: Over this assessment period, the majority of UoA4 members have been
actively involved in academic publishing, with 41 holding or having held significant editor/editorial
board roles with scientific journals including Abdala (Autonomic Neuroscience), Bowers
(Cognition and Memory), Coulthard (Frontiers in Dementia and Neurodegeneration), Damian
(Quarterly Review of Experimental Psychology), Jarrold (Developmental Science), Love
(Alzheimer’s Research and Therapy), Ludwig (Quarterly Review of Experimental Psychology),
Lumb (Neuroscience), Marrion (Editor, Concise Guide to Pharmacology), Munafò (Editor-in-
Chief, Nicotine and Tobacco Research), Penton-Voak (British Journal of Psychology), Robinson

                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(Pharmacology, Biochemistry, and Behavior), Scolding (Multiple Sclerosis), Turk (Memory), and
Warburton (Brain and Neurosciences Advances). A further 26 UoA4 researchers serve on one or
more editorial boards.

Membership of grant and fellowship awarding bodies: Approximately one third of the members
of this UoA (n=28) make significant contributions to assessment and decisions on psychology and
neuroscience grant funding and serve or have served on grant and fellowship review panels for
UKRI, Wellcome Trust, Royal Society, leading Medical Charities and European funding bodies.
Many of our staff serve on committees and panels for funders. Examples include Gilchrist
(EPSRC advisory panel), Jarrold (ESRC committees including Future Leaders, Doctoral Training
Programmes, and ESRC Panel A), Mellor and Munafò (MRC Neuroscience and Mental Health
Board), Hodge, Molnar, Piggins, and Warburton (BBSRC), Bashir, Chadderton, Robinson and
Jones (Wellcome Trust Basic Science and Fellowship Interview panels), Lumb (Versus Arthritis),
Robinson (Royal Society), Uney (Parkinson’s UK), Wynick (Diabetes UK), Apps and Bashir
(REF panel membership). Munafò chairs the MQ Mental Health Fellows committee and Cancer
Research UK Prevention and Population Hearth research committee, Coulthard serves on the
steering committee for the Brain Health Clinic Consortium hosted by Biogen, and the Scientific
Advisory Board for Slowave Therapeutics. Kehoe has been a member of the Alzheimer’s Society
Research Strategy Council.

Committee membership of professional bodies, charities and trusts: During the review period
Lumb served as President of the Physiological Society, Lightman as President of the British
Neuroscience Association (and now Trustee), Piggins (British Neuroscience Association including
as Piggins BNA Festival of Neuroscience organiser), Brennan (President of European
Chemosensory Research Organisation), Jones (Department of Health ‘Development of a Ten
Year Strategy for Mental Health – Basic Science’ Working Group).




                                                                                       Page 25
