Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University of the West of England, Bristol

Unit of assessment: 6 Agriculture, Veterinary and Food Science

Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Unit context and structure
This submission is based on the research of a collaborative group of 15 (14.2 FTE) active
researchers who are members of the Centre for Research in Biosciences (CRIB; Arnold, Deputy
Director until June 2020). Our research is organised into three strategically important themes; Plant
health and disease, Agri-environmental challenges and Food science and technology.

Research in the unit is interdisciplinary and has strong links with staff returned in other units of
assessment such as Allied Health Professions (UoA 3). The unit collaborates not only across the
disciplines within the Faculty but also across the University including the University’s Science
Communication Unit, Institute of Biosensing Technology (IBST) and Enterprise Zone which support
collaborations with industry and other research stakeholders. The unit delivers research and impact
in areas including policy, practice, and public engagement. Names of academics whose outputs are
submitted in this unit are highlighted in bold.

1.2 Research and impact strategy
The aim of UWE’s research strategy ‘Research with Impact’ is “world-class performance in
selected areas of research that meets the needs of our community, a sustainable economy and
society and feeds the scholarship and enquiry that underpins our learning and teaching”. (UWE
Strategy 2020, see Institutional Statement)). The unit’s research focuses on one of the University’s
four research themes, Sustainability and Climate Change Resilience. Our strategic aim
continues to be to increase the quantity and quality of our research, through the development of
internal and external collaborations/partnerships, address real-world challenges and enhance our
international reputation. Since REF 2014 we have achieved these aims by making key
appointments and strategic promotions, expanding internal funding schemes through substantial
investment in laboratory infrastructure and equipment and obtaining external funding. The growth
and strength across these themes in both fundamental and applied research are evidenced by
refereed papers, through impacts on policy and practice, and through the unit’s public engagement
activities. Our forward-looking goal is to create a sustainable cycle of internal investment and
external income that supports translational research and the development of technological solutions
subsequently driving societal and commercial impact.

1.2.1 Plant stress and disease
Work focusing on plant pathology (Arnold, Allainguillaume, Wetten, Brady, Neale) and plant
stress (Hancock, Wilson) is related to a number of agricultural crops including internationally
important crops such as beans and cacao. The expansion of this work during the assessment
period was driven by new funding from a range of sources including research councils, charities
and industry. Plant pathology research has received significant strategic internal investment in
facilities as well as external funding. For example, Arnold and Neale expanded their BBSRC-
funded research on the plant pathogen Pseudomonas syringae collaborating with the Universities
of Reading, Birmingham, Oxford and NIAB East Malling Research Station (with Neale). Arnold and
Brady continued to develop research on the bacteria that cause Acute Oak Decline (AOD)
including securing two Partnership PhD studentships, co-funded by Forest Research, Woodland
Heritage and UWE. Our plant pathology research was further strengthened by expanding
interdisciplinary research on the detection of Cacao swollen-shoot virus (CSSV) (Allainguillaume)
and the appointment of Wetten who secured additional funding for this theme from Cocoa
Research UK for a PhD project entitled ‘The pathology of Cocoa Swollen Shoot Disease’. Overseas
collaborations within plant pathology have been expanded to include Allainguillaume’s
collaborations with Mars UK, the World Agroforestry Centre (ICRAF, Ivory Coast) and the World
Cocoa Foundation (Ghana) to develop a CSSV on-site detection system, funded by Innovate UK
                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Agri-tech Catalyst awards (£370k and £117k). Further overseas collaborations have been
established with project funding from the British Council for a Thai PhD student to carry out
research in Arnold’s laboratory on ‘The colonization ability of the selected endophytic bacterial
inoculation on Gynura pseudochina and their effect on phenolic compounds in the plant’.
Hancock/Wilson have progressed the investigation of the roles of reactive oxygen species, nitric
oxide and hydrogen sulfide in plant stress. More recently, they have investigated the effects of
hydrogen gas on plant growth and biochemistry. Wilson also investigated the role of the plant
stress hormone abscisic acid (ABA) in the alga Chlamydomonas and gained insight into how it
alters photosynthetic rate and other responses to different light levels via two studentships funded
by the Saudi and Brazilian governments. This work also looked at the role of specific glycine rich
RNA-binding proteins in mediating ABA responses in both the alga and plants.

1.2.2 Agri-Environmental challanges
Our agri-environmental research focuses on challenges that have direct and indirect effects on
agricultural systems. Reynolds and Thorn’s NERC-funded work uses an interdisciplinary approach
to the management of water catchments impacted by agricultural land use. This includes the
development and implementation of technologies, such as novel sensors, for monitoring ground
and surface waters impacted by agriculture, and Drinking Water Inspectorate-approved treatment
technologies to produce safe drinking water from ground and surface supplies in India. Through a
BBSRC grant and partnership PhD with Clear Water Revival Ltd, Reynolds and Thorn have
developed a biofilm technology for the control of waterborne pathogens. Reynolds is working with
SME Hydrolize Ltd, supported by a two-year Knowledge Transfer Partnership funded by EPSRC
and Innovate UK, to engineer and commercialise a biofiltration system for the control of water
quality which can be applied to agri-food and aquaculture systems. Willey’s NERC-funded
research on the transfer and effects of radioisotopes in agricultural and unmanaged systems now
contributes to food chain radioactivity assessments for humans and wildlife in the UK and,
increasingly, internationally. His work helped to significantly reduce the uncertainty in models of
environmental transfer used by a variety of regulators and commercial organisations, enhancing
confidence in activity thresholds and limits used in regulation of radioactivity in food and the
environment. Building on work on biodiversity and functioning ecosystems such as tropical
rainforests and oil palm plantations, Ellwood developed the birds nest fern as a model system for
testing the relationship between biodiversity and ecosystem functioning. This model system is now
being used as a conservation tool to ameliorate the effects of converting tropical rain forests to oil
palm plantations in Malaysia. This work has strong international ties and moved fundamental
science into application in agricultural systems with the aim of restoring biodiversity and functions
such as decomposition and nutrient cycling. The challenges of improving environmental
sustainability have also been made by newly appointed members of the Unit, Lintott and Stone.
Their research focuses on the impacts of development and changes in agricultural practices on
biodiversity and ecosystem functioning using bats and insects as models. Much of their work
informs EU and UK legislation, planning and farming practices.

1.2.3 Food science and technology
Research has continued to focus on interdisciplinary projects pioneering the development of
electrochemical sensor-based technologies (bio-sensors) to address challenges in the organoleptic
qualities and nutritional aspects of food products. Recent progress has included finalising the
development of a rapid and cost-effective on-line detection system for the pig meat quality defect,
boar taint (Doran and Hart, supported by two BBSRC Follow-on-Fund grants, an Agriculture and
Horticulture Development Board (AHDB) PhD and EU funding). A European patent has been
granted for this novel electrochemical sensor system, which will enable the UK and international pig
industries to identify and eliminate tainted pork from the food chain thereby maintaining consumer
confidence and providing financial benefits to industry. Negotiations have been held with an
internationally leading company and agreement on a draft licence has been obtained. Further meat
quality research has been carried out on new electrochemical bio-sensors for the measurement of
various classes of fatty acids which have strong impact on meat flavour and human health,
supported by an AHDB PhD studentship and UWE funding. Hart has obtained funding from
Unilever to develop simple low-cost electrochemical gas-phase sensors to monitor important target
                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
aromatic compounds of relevance to the consumer goods and pharmaceutical industries. Newly
appointed member of the unit, Stratakos, is working on the development of strategies to ensure the
microbiological safety of the food supply chain and the protection of public health. His work has led
to the development of novel antimicrobial methods against foodborne pathogenic bacteria including
cold atmospheric plasma decontamination and high-pressure processing (Rangeland Foods Ltd,
Auranta Ltd). Reynolds work includes the investigation of volatile headspace profiling for the early
detection of blackheart disease to better manage potato waste funded by FoodWasteNet, B-hive
Innovations Ltd and Innovate UK (KTP).

1.3 Impacts on policy, practice and public engagement
1.3.1 Policy
Areas of significant policy impact during the assessment period include improvements to
environmental assessments of radioactive emissions (for the Environment Agency) and
improvements to predictions of radioisotope transfer from UK nuclear waste repositories (for
Radioactive Waste Management Ltd) (Willey). A partnership is now in place with the Centre for
Environment, Fisheries & Aquaculture Science to develop and apply these findings to the UK’s
Radioactivity in Food and the Environment report. Changes in policy brought about by Ellwood’s
research include UWE’s Policy on Sustainable Palm Oil released in 2018. According to the
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) this was the first statement of a change in purchasing
policy of any university worldwide. Ultimately, Ellwood’s research aims to change government
policy and management practice in palm oil plantations in Malaysia. Doran has been a UK
representative, a member of the management committee and a Short-Term Scientific Missions
Coordinator in the EU Innovative Approaches for Pork Production with Entire Males (IPEMA) COST
Action aiming to facilitate knowledge exchange and impact in sustainable pig production systems in
Europe and beyond. Reynolds contributed to the Global Knowledge Initiative report ‘Innovating the
Future of Food Systems’. Brady has given annual talks (2015-2020) at Forest Research/DEFRA
stakeholder events for ‘Future Proofing Plant Health’ sponsored by the Rockefeller Foundation.

1.3.2 Commercial Practice
Reynolds has been heavily involved in the development of new products, services and innovations
for the water sector (treatment and sensing) in partnership with UK technology providers, including
Portsmouth Aqua, Bridge Biosystems Ltd and Chelsea Technologies Group. Examples include the
development of a disinfection product that has approval for use in the public water supply in the UK
by the Drinking Water Inspectorate and Europe via the EU Biocide Product Register. Hart and
Doran’s patent for a boar taint biosensor has now been granted and covers 30 European countries.
Negotiations are underway with an international company to commercialise this bio-sensor system.
Evaluation, commercialisation and knowledge exchange on the boar taint technology has been
facilitated by the EU IPEMA COST Action which involves partners from over 20 countries and an
EU Tender on the development of new approaches for production of taint-free meat (Doran).

1.3.3 Public Engagement
The unit’s outreach activities range from interactions with local schools to internationally broadcast
programmes. Arnold/Neale developed an interactive game, Microbes vs. Plants: An Arms Race,
for delivery to students at schools and at science fairs including the Big Bang @ Weston 2018
which attracted 3,000 members of the public. Willey’s research was featured at the Bristol Festival
of Nature 2019 and contributed to exhibitions at the Manchester Festival of Science 2016-2018.
Ellwood has an oil palm exhibit at the Eden Project, Cornwall, seen by around 1 million people per
year. The research of Arnold and Ellwood was also highlighted in an ITN produced film for the
Royal Society of Biology (2018). Part of a series of films on Addressing Global Challenges, this film
featured both their research and schools outreach programmes. The work of Reynolds’ (‘Many
Bugs make Light Work’) was an invited exhibit at the Great British Bioscience Festival 2014, where
BBSRC researchers showcased the best of British bioscience in Bethnal Green, as well as at the
Cheltenham Festival of Science 2015, with a combined attendance of 50,000 people. Reynolds’
work has also been widely covered by the BBC (‘Costing the Earth’, BBC Radio 4 2014/2020 and
‘Plastic Planet’ and ‘War on Plastic’, BBC1 2020) and was identified as one of 37 innovations/ideas
that are about to change our world (BBC Focus, 2015; BBC Business World 2019; The Engineer,
                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2019; the Epoch Times, 2020).

Two of the areas mentioned have been submitted as Impact Case Studies. The nuclear safety
case study (Willey) shows how our research is changing the management of the effects of nuclear
power on food and the environment. Safer water describes how we have improved water quality
through the development and implementation of novel technological approaches to monitoring and
treatment (Reynolds and Thorn).

1.4 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact
We will continue to build on the success of Research with Impact which is further developed in the
UWE strategy 2030 (see Institutional Statement). The Unit’s research is core to one of the
Universities four new Beacons of Excellence, Sustainability and Climate Change Resilience.
The beacons will drive institutional investment and map to the priorities of a range of key funding
streams. These include, but are not limited to, the Government’s Industrial Strategy and UK
Research and Innovation. Within the Sustainabilty beacon there several sub-themes, including
‘Resources, agri-tech, water security, air quality’ which align and support the research within the
unit.

Our strategic aim is to maintain and develop the structure of the unit we have developed in recent
years in order to expand our key research strands, as well as to pursue novel areas of research
and develop new strategic collaborations both internally and externally. We will continue to
encourage and invest in interdisciplinary research with impact and promote open science.

1.4.1 Sustained development of research
Plant stress and disease
Research on the role of bacterial genomic islands in the evolution of plant pathogens (Neale) has
generated new avenues for research. Neale will continue collaborations with NIAB and the
Universities of Oxford and Birmingham to understand the triggers of bacterial evolution and how
this might be controlled to improve food security. Research funded by Woodland Heritage and
Forest Research (Brady) has led to the identification of key bacteria involved in Acute Oak Decline
(AOD). Brady will now continue to develop detection methods for these bacteria to allow early
diagnosis and intervention in the field. Research is continuing on the role of reactive signalling
molecules in plants (Hancock), with a focus on hydrogen sulphide and nitric oxide. This work will
continue to embrace collaborations in Spain, Brazil and Croatia, as well as in the UK (Exeter) and
has expanded into the possible roles of hydrogen gas in plant growth and post-harvest storage.
Wilson’s finding that ABA induces algae to swim upwards in a light-mediated, negatively geotropic
manner will have significant implications with regard to connecting environmental stress responses
of photosynthetic organisms to their auxin induced tropisms and will be the subject of future
research. Allainguillaume and Wetten’s interdisciplinary research, in collaboration with the IBST,
will focus on CSSV both in terms of applied field detection and monitoring but also the fundamental
understanding of the biology and lifecycle of the virus. They plan to continue collaborative research
with industry (e.g. Mars Wrigley), to develop a biosensor for detection of pre-symptomatic infections
by CSSV that is applicable as a field-based system. Following validation of the biosensor, a spin-
out company will be set up for its production. The exploitation plan will target sales to cocoa
authorities in producing countries, to exporters and to chocolate manufacturers. Users will be able
to utilise the detection system in screening programmes at zero cost to farmers, impacting on
sustainable cocoa production and the livelihoods of cocoa farmers and workers.

Agri-Environment challenges
Lintott and Stone’s research has developed a monitoring strategy enabling the efficacy of green
infrastructure interventions to be assessed. Collaborations with project partners including Natural
England, the West of England Nature Partnership, and Gloucestershire Wildlife Trust will be
sustained to determine how new developments can be sustainably integrated into rural and farming
landscapes. These novel modelling techniques will be used to inform strategic planning and
development processes to create resilient ecological networks. At a national scale, this will inform
Defra’s 25 year environment plan for ‘net gain’ and ‘nature recovery networks’. Willey’s research
                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
on the TREE project established that phylogenetically informed trait prediction is useful in predicting
the concentration to which plants take up Technetium-99 and Selenium-75. The aim now is to
extend these predictions to other radioisotopes and inorganic contaminants and to ‘phylogenetically
correct’ the understanding of the effects of a range of phenotypes on contaminant uptake.
Reynolds and Thorn have several mature collaborations with end-users that are near to
commercial exploitation. Strong successful partnerships assist the alignment of research priorities
that require solution providers and end users (e.g. Agri-tech catalyst calls, Knowledge Transfer
Partnerships, overseas development agencies). The unit’s model for sustained development of
research requires an extensive network of end users and technological providers, as is evidenced
by its growing network of collaborations and funding (Industrial, NGOs, UKRI) since 2014.

Food science and technology
The interdisciplinary research leading to the development of an on-line boar taint detection
biosensor has yielded a platform technology which can be adapted to combine multiple sensor
types for the simultaneous detection of boar taint, meat fatty acid composition, fat and vitamin
content. The aim is now to broaden the scope of the technology for in situ monitoring of food quality
traits of importance to the food industry. To achieve this, Hart and Doran will work with their current
collaborators as well as applying for Pathfinder and BBSRC Follow-on Funds and continue our
involvement in international consortia. Stratakos’ research will focus on the identification of agents
from natural sources with antimicrobial or anti-virulence effects that can be exploited for the food
and feed industries. Work will also aim to develop physical, biological, and natural antimicrobial
technologies for food decontamination to decrease the burden from foodborne illness.

1.4.2 Responding to priorities and initiatives
In alignment with the University’s priorities, we will continue to address funder strategic priorities
including those of research councils, industry, and charities. For example, our work in plant stress
and disease and agri-environmental challenges aligns with the Global Challenges Research Fund
(GCRF). The Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund will provide funding opportunities in areas such as
transforming food production. More specific initiatives include Action Oak which was recently
launched and plans to fund further research to help inform the management of UK oak trees,
something that Brady is well placed to benefit from. We will continue to develop and capitalise on
our strong links with industry and pursue opportunities through Innovate UK and KTPs following the
success of Reynolds in this area. The strategic appointment of Turner, with a background in
bioinformatics and the establishment of a bioinformatics computer facility, positions us well in
relation to calls that increasingly include aspects of big data. Turner will provide complementary
expertise to existing members and broaden the range of funded opportunities available to access.
We will also continue to access internal investment through University schemes such as the Vice-
Chancellor Early Career Researchers (VCECR) awards, VC Challenge Fund, Partnership PhDs
and Faculty-funded schemes such as Research Establishment Time for newly appointed
academics (in the first 2 years of their appointment), cross-disciplinary collaborative grants,
internally funded research time, faculty pilot grants, and cross faculty collaboration. These schemes
support staff in their research development at various points in their career and enable research
ideas to be developed for external opportunities.

1.4.3 Promotion of research activity, culture and dissemination
We aim to promote our research activity across the University and beyond. A programme of weekly
research seminars is run within CRIB (co-organiser Stratakos) which encourages presentations by
both academics and postgraduate students. Postgraduate students within CRIB also run their own
series of research seminars (section 2). In addition, academic staff and postgraduates can apply for
funding from the department to attend national and international conferences, training courses and
workshops. As well as traditional publication methods, staff are encouraged to disseminate their
research through other multimedia routes including web sites, radio, television, blogs, podcasts and
Twitter. We will continue to develop and promote our outreach activities with local schools and at
science fairs. Members of the unit collaborate with UWE’s Science Communication Unit (SCU)
which provides international expertise on public engagement. For example, Willey had a joint PhD
student with the SCU entitled ‘Science Museum Explainer Training: Exploring factors that influence
                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
visitor-explainer interactions’ and Reynolds’ exhibit at the BBSRC Great British Bioscience Festival
was supported by SCU staff.

Reflecting the University’s commitment to open research, the Faculty has adopted the Open
Science FAIR principles (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reusable). To achieve this, we
comply with funders requirements for open access publication as well as full compliance with
publication of data through the UWE data repository and sharing of materials and protocols.

1.4.4 Investing in impact
Impact is a central part of our current and future strategy. To lead this activity, we have created the
post of Faculty Lead for Enterprise and Impact to (i) explore, develop and drive enterprise
opportunities linking research, knowledge exchange, learning, and teaching including the
development of a Faculty Enterprise Bursaries scheme; (ii) work with Research Centres, Groups
and Institutes to coordinate research-related impact activities; (iii) ensure pursuit of, and effective
engagement in, major internal and external initiatives that can promote our connections with
individuals and organisations in mutual furtherance of business, enterprise and knowledge
exchange. The Faculty has also created Impact Champions whose specific focus is to identify,
facilitate and develop impact including that described in the impact case studies but also more
broadly. HEIF funds support these activities as well as providing individual support to staff to
develop impact from their research including networking events, travel for meetings, exhibitions and
working with a range of companies via the University Enterprise Zone (UEZ).
The UEZ comprises four interlinked ventures: Future Space, Launch Space, Health Tech Hub and
the Bristol Robotics Lab Hardware Incubator, housed together in the a multi-purpose building.
Future Space is a business incubator for SMEs in high-tech areas including health technologies
and biosciences which currently supports approximately forty businesses by providing
accommodation, lab facilities, business support, and opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration
with University research teams. The UEZ has been used by, for example, Reynolds who leads a
KTP worth £200k in collaboration with Clearwater Revival, a company located within the UEZ to
design, develop and fabricate a small-scale, low-cost, low-energy microbial biofilter system. The
Health Tech Hub is also providing researchers with the capacity and connections to develop
partnership projects. For instance, engineering expertise and equipment available from the Health
Tech Hub and IBST contributed in enabling Allainguillaume to gain two (£487k) InnovateUK
grants to work in collaboration with Mars Wrigley and the World Agroforestry Centre (ICRAF) to
develop and commercialise an in-field sensor for the detection of cacao swollen shoot virus.

1.4.5 Research governance
The unit continues to maintain and develop our research governance in line with internal and
external expectations. For example, all Principal Investigators are required to complete a faculty
Research Governance (RG) Record which captures information on all aspects of governance
appropriate to their project, including the use of endorsed risk assessments. Staff from the unit are
members of both the University and Faculty Research Ethics Committees, and University-wide
committees that cover Biological Safety, Animal Welfare and Ethics (Hancock, Chair), Genetic
Modification Safety (Turner, Chair) and the use of Human Tissue (Hancock). Policy is overseen by
a University Research Governance Manager and is driven in the faculty by an academic lead
(Hancock) who chairs a Good Research Conduct Group to support and ensure delivery of good
practice in line with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and the University’s Code of Good
Research Conduct. Individual projects must secure ethical approval (if required), from the Faculty
Research Ethics Committee. All research data collection must conform to the GDPR2018
regulations and is expected to have a Data Management Plan. Regular training sessions are put in
place in the Faculty to ensure all staff are aware of RG requirements and are kept up to date with
new regulations and procedures.




                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Section 2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy
Our staffing strategy has been to ensure growth and succession planning in key areas of research
excellence. To achieve this we have (i) invested in the appointment of high-quality staff in key
strategic areas, (ii) supported research career development of all staff in the unit and (iii) promoted
staff from within the unit.

2.1.1 Internal promotions
All staff have an annual Performance and Development Review (PDR) to review their work and
support their career development. During the REF period, Doran was promoted to Associate Dean
(Research) but continues to research actively in the unit; Hancock was promoted to Professor of
Cell Signalling; Willey to Professor of Environmental Plant Physiology; Allainguillaume and
Ellwood to Associate Professor.Turner was promoted to Senior Lecturer and has since led the
establishment of a bioinformatics suite. He is actively involved in the development of bioinformatics
pipelines and training courses which will benefit unit members and those in biomedical sciences.
Newly appointed staff Brady and Neale have been promoted from Research Associates to
Research Fellows. Brady has extensive expertise in bacterial taxonomy and her work focuses on
research into acute oak decline as well as supporting other staff in molecular taxonomy. Neale is a
molecular plant pathologist who has collaborated with Arnold on three BBSRC grants. During the
assessment period, Thorn has been promoted from Research Fellow to Senior Lecturer and
subsequently to Associate Professor, further demonstrating a strong commitment to career
development of promising researchers within the unit

2.1.2 External appointments
Our external recruitment strategy has been to target specific areas of research to strengthen and
expand our research base. In the area of plant stress and disease Wetten (University of Reading)
was appointed to strengthen international research on cocoa and the devastating Cacao swollen
shoot disease in collaboration with Allainguillaume. The appointment of Lintott (University of
Exeter) and Stone (University of Bristol) brings expertise in investigating how modern challenges,
such as urban expansion, renewable energy and fragmented landscapes, impact wildlife and
agricultural practice, strengthening our environmental challenges theme. Stratakos was appointed
as part of a major institutional initiative to invest in areas of strength and vitality. As a Wallscourt
Fellow in Sustainable Agri-Food Production, his appointment is 50% ring fenced for research time
for the first three years. Stratakos adds extensive experience in developing novel strategies to
ensure the microbiological safety of the food supply chain and the protection of public health.
Additional appointments have been made recently to build further capacity and expand research
into new areas over the next period, including Akpiri (Birmingham), Fernandez (Bristol), Hindle
(Sheffield), Sargeant (Plymouth) and Vafidis (Cardif).

2.2 Staff development
Newly appointed and promoted staff are supported by: (i) mentoring by more experienced staff to
support their transfer to the university, aid the development of research capability and to help with
career progression; (ii) access to funds provided for dedicated research time and to the Faculty
Research Establishment scheme which provides ring-fenced time for targeted research activities;
(iii) specialist training and mentoring to support bid preparation and project management.

Early Career Researchers (ECR) can apply for competitive funding via the Vice Chancellors (VC)
ECR awards aimed at developing the University’s most promising researchers, supported by a
senior staff mentor. Brady (£14k), Lintott (£15k), Stone (£15k) and Turner (19k) have all received
VCECR awards during this period which has led to further funding being obtained (Brady -
Woodland Heritage; Lintott - NERC). Specialist training and mentoring are provided from senior
academic staff and Research, Business and Innovation (RBI) to support bid preparation, project
management, financial and risk management. Demonstrating our commitment to promising
researchers, Faculty bridge funding has been used to retain promising post-doctoral researchers

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(Brady, Neale). Competitive financial support is also available to established researchers for pump
priming of new initiatives, for example Ellwood received internal funding (£20k) for a new
collaboration with the Science Communication Unit and University of Oxford to create a digital
insect repository. Staff can also apply to the VC Accelerator Programme for Mid-Career Academics
and the VC Interdisciplinary Research Challenge Fund to develop new interdisciplinary teams
working on early stage research projects and/or applying for external funding

The principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (updated 2020)
are actively implemented. Consequently, UWE has held the European Commission’s HR
Excellence in Research award since 2012. An updated Concordat action plan was produced for
2018-2020 led by Hancock who is also chair of UWE’s Researchers’ Forum Planning Group, a
pan-university group with representation from research staff across the institution with the aim of
supporting career development. It runs two dedicated events each year as well as feeding into
UWE’s staff development provision, supported by a Skills Development Officer positioned in RBI.

2.3 Research students
The unit aims to provide an exemplary training, support and learning environment for its
postgraduate research (PGR) students drawing upon the UWE Graduate School and the PGR
Code of Practice. During the assessment period there were 17 student completions. PhD students
have been externally funded from a wide range of sources including the AHDB, NERC, Woodland
Heritage, Royal Horticultural Society, Portsmouth Aviation Ltd, Chelsea Technologies Group and
Libyan, Saudi, Brazilian and Kuwaiti governments, as well as through competitive University funds.
This includes a new initiative to support Partnership PhDs, where funding is jointly provided by an
external non-academic organisation and by the University (typically 50% each). Partnership PhDs
have been obtained by Reynolds (£40k from Clear Water Revival Ltd / Hydrolyze Ltd, £40k from
Chelsea Technologies Ltd, £60k from Creo Medical Ltd, £80k Portsmouth Aviation), Arnold (2 x
£40k from Woodland Heritage, £40k from the Royal Horticultural Society), Steer (£42k from the
Archipelagos Institute of Marine Conservation and £21k from Operation Wallacea), Lintott (£38k
from National Grid) and Stone (£34k from Natural England). CRIB has also been appointed as an
associate partner to the BBSRC SWBio Doctoral Training Programme.

PhD students are supervised by a team comprising a Director of Studies and one or more
supervisors, often from industry (e.g. Sun Chemicals, JSR Genetics, Chelsea Technologies Ltd,
Portsmouth Aviation Ltd); research institutes (e.g. Forest Research); levy boards (e.g. AHDB); other
HEIs (e.g. Reading, Bristol) or health bodies (e.g. North Bristol NHS Trust).

All PhD students are members of CRIB and expected to attend the programme of research
seminars given by internal and external speakers, as well as to present their work as internal
speakers at the Annual Postgraduate Forum, as part of a 30-credit Research Training and
Professional Development module, and to participate in the annual showcase of research activity
within CRIB. PGRs are also required to pass a further 30 M level credits. This is often from a
‘Research in Contemporary Context’ module which aims to embed personal, professional and
career development within research degree programmes via a process of research-based learning,
but can be any module that develops attributes mapped to Vitae’s Researcher Development
Framework. This suite of short courses includes training on specific requirements of the doctoral
journey (progression exam, progression review, final viva) as well as training courses on, for
example, academic writing and presentation skills.

Laboratory research students have dedicated bench space and individual workstations in the
designated postgraduate centre, working alongside post-doctoral researchers and research
technicians. All students are provided with a laptop. The Faculty invested £0.25M in the
postgraduate centre to include individual workspaces (2018). All PGR students are members of the
University Graduate School (Willey, Director) which provides a supportive environment from
application through to graduation, offering a range of bespoke services to meet individual needs. As
well as an extensive skills development programme of workshops to develop transferable skills, the
Graduate School provides residential and networking events and access to regional and national
                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
support schemes (see Institutional Statement). All PGR students are invited to apply for support to
attend national or international conferences by the Faculty Research Degrees Committee (FRDC).
Although a competitive process, most PGRs who apply get support, up to £1,000 per trip, towards
registration, travel and accommodation.Students of Arnold, Ellwood and Reynolds have been
recipients of this scheme.

The PGR community expanded with the introduction of an MRes in Applied Sciences in 2017. As
part of the MRes, students take modules on ‘Research Training’, a ‘Professional Development
Portfolio’ and ‘Research in Theory and Practice’ as well as an extended (120 credit) project carried
out within one of our research teams. Several MRes students have gone on to undertake PhDs
including students of Allainguillaume (at Exeter University) and Arnold (at UWE).


2.4 Equality and diversity
Equality and diversity are key values of both the unit and University; all staff undertake an online
equality training course every two years. Additional support for female researchers is provided
through the University Women in Research Mentoring Scheme (Arnold, mentor) to strengthen their
leadership skills and research portfolios in order to achieve senior research positions. Work
undertaken to support female researchers resulted in the Department’s Athena SWAN Silver award
in 2020. Brady and Neale have both had two periods of maternity leave during their employment
and are now 0.8 FTE, reflecting a flexible approach to the working conditions of new parents. The
University was again listed in the Stonewall Top 100 employers in 2020.

Unit staff have been identified as having significant responsibility for research, as independent
researchers in strict accordance with the University’s Code of Practice. Outputs have been selected
based on their quality as determined through a peer review process with no expectation about the
number of outputs any one individual contributed to the submission. Where it was necessary to
choose between a small number of outputs with the same quality score to reach the required total,
the distribution of outputs between individuals and across the subject areas of the submission were
taken into account.

Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 External funding
The unit’s strategy is to target funders that support our strategic goal to continue to develop and
invest in our three key research strands. To do this we target national and international funding
sources from a range of funders such as research councils, charities and industry. The unit’s
external research funding in this period totals £2.8m (see REF4b). Examples of external funding
have come from Research Councils (BBSRC; £929k Arnold, £640k Doran, £289k, Hart, NERC;
Reynolds £343k, Willey, £375k), UK Central government (Innovate UK; £487k Allainguillaume),
UK Based Charities (Woodland Heritage, The Gilchrist Educational Trust, Frank Water,
Westcountry Rivers Trust), UK industry (Portsmouth Aviation Ltd, B-hive Innovations Ltd, Mars
Chocolate UK Limited, Unilever, Chelsea Technologies, Creo Medical, Hydrolize Ltd, Clear Water
Revival Ltd, Centrego Ltd), EU Industry (European Cocoa Association) and AHDB. PhD
studentships have been funded by AHDB (Doran & Hart £70k). Partnership PhDs have been
funded with Woodland Heritage (Arnold, Brady), Portsmouth Aviation Ltd, Creo Medical, Chelsea
Technologies (Reynolds), National Grid (Lintott). PhD students have been funded externally from
the Libyan and Kuwaiti governments (Wilson).

3.2 Internal funding
The unit’s internal strategic investment for research and impact in this period totals £1.33m. This
includes investment in newly appointed staff and additional research workload. Staff have been
successful in obtaining funding from internal University sources including the VCECR fund,
Partnership PhDs and VC Interdisciplinary Research Awards. New in this period, the VC
Interdisciplinary Research Challenge Fund was created to enable researchers to reach beyond
                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
their centres, departments, and faculties to develop exciting new interdisciplinary research with
colleagues working in different fields. Reynolds obtained two VC awards in collaborations with
colleagues in the Faculty of Environment and Technology, one for a project investigating drinking
water and airborne microplastics (£24,934) and one to investigate the use of bioelectrochemical
filters for clean electricity and resource recovery as fertiliser (£25k). Thorn and Willey obtained a
VC award (£25k) for a microbial fuel cell based hydroponic production system for food crops.

3.3. Operational infrastructure supporting research
Staff are supported in a range of ways such as Research Establishment and Research Progression
time (outlined in section 2). In addition, all staff can apply for workload to support research. A
dedicated technical team supports laboratory research. As part of the of the Centre for Research in
Biosciences (CRIB), a management group addresses strategic research and administrative aspects
and leverages an advisory board comprising 19 representatives from academia, industry,
healthcare and government organisations to advise on research directions, external funding,
knowledge exchange, partnership opportunities and enhancement of impact. The Associate Dean
for Research (Doran) has oversight of Faculty research and enterprise activities and advises the
Pro Vice-Chancellor on strategic developments to support the aims and objectives of the Faculty.
The Associate Dean is supported by the Faculty Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee
that monitors the development and implementation of research and knowledge exchange across
the Faculty.

A dedicated Faculty Director of Postgraduate Research Studies liaises with the Centres to deliver
PGR training. An additional Lead for Postgraduate Research Funding (0.2 FTE) enables a
coordinated response to external PGR funding opportunities. The University’s Research, Business
and Innovation (RBI) service supports all research activities, providing support to identify research
funding, bid preparation, professional development, business engagement, IP and technology
transfer and grant administration.

3.4 Specialist infrastructure and facilities supporting research
The University has recently invested over £7M in 6,500 m2 of Laboratory infrastructure to support
research. This has allowed realignment of research groups and provided dedicated space for staff
including, for example, a dedicated laboratory for plant science research. This has brought together
the groups of Arnold, Allainguillaume and Wetten, facilitating greater collaboration in plant stress
and disease. The new infrastructure includes: an electron microscopy suite; molecular biology
laboratories; volatile analysis laboratory; analytical instrumentation; electrochemical sensor
laboratory; microbiology laboratories; and a bioluminescence suite. In addition, a new
bioinformatics hub (led by Turner) to support research training and teaching, with a dedicated
server and 12 workstations, has been developed (£77.7K). The ”Envirotron” environmental
greenhouse facility (£1M; 204.8m2) contains several different sections including temperate and
tropical areas, supporting plant and agri-environmental research. It is used by several research
groups (Allainguillaume, Arnold, Ellwood, Wetten, Wilson, Willey), provides a state-of-the-art
teaching facility for both undergraduate and postgraduate students and complements our existing
plant growth cabinet facilities.

As noted above, research in the unit benefits from the University Enterprise Zone (£16.5M;
4,100m2) established as one of four in England, match-funded by the Department of Business,
Innovation and Skills and the West of England Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP). Within the UEZ,
‘Future Space’ offers flexible support for business to grow and develop, providing specialised
workspaces and laboratory infrastructure, and ‘Launch Space’ assists entrepreneurial students and
academics. Co-located is the Health Technology Hub, funded through the European Regional
Development Fund and LEP (£5M), which provides commercial and advanced technical support to
life science start-ups and currently hosts more than 30 companies, many in the life science sector:
Atlas Genetics; CPP Analytics; DoDxAct; eXmoor Pharma Concepts; Merck Serono, and Pertinax.



                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Examples of collaboration within academia
The unit takes a proactive approach to promoting excellence, collaboration and impact in research
and strongly encourages collaboration with both international and UK universities.

4.1.1 International collaborations:
Arnold: visiting Fellow at the Department of Botany, University of Kelaniya, Sri Lanka.
Ellwood: collaborated with Professor Harald Schneider from the Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical
Garden in China, funded by the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Willey: has developed key partnership and reciprocal visits with the Belgian Nuclear Research
Centre in Mol, Belgium.
Allainguillaume: has a partnership with cocoa director Dr Loor of the Instituto Nacional de
Investigacion Agropecuaria in Ecuador, who is an academic supervisor for a UWE PhD student.
Hancock: is a science advisor for University of Osijek, Croatia.
Stratakos: hosted a visiting researcher from Technological Institute of High Studies of Acayucan,
Mexico.
Brady: collaborates on several taxonomy projects with University of Pretoria, South Africa and
Cornell University, USA.
Reynolds: has projects and partnerships with researchers from institutions in India; Bose Institute
(Kolkata) Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (Kolkata) Indian Institute of
Technology (in Guwahati, Roorkee and Patna) and the Institute of Life Sciences (Bhubaneswar).
Other international collaborations include the University of Havanna (Cuba), Umea University
(Sweden) and the Federal Institute of Goiás (Brazil).
Turner: collaborates on phage research with KU Leuven, ETH Zurich and the DSMZ, Germany.

4.1.2 National collaborations:
Arnold, Brady & Neale: on bacterial pathogen evolution (BBSRC) with the Universities of Oxford,
Birmingham and Reading and with NIAB East Malling Research station and Reading University on
cherry pathogens (BBSRC).
Ellwood: with Oxford University to create a digital insect repository.
Lintott: Bristol University to develop an eDNA-based methodology for detecting the presence of bat
species. With Sussex University to determine the effectiveness of bat mitigation strategies. With
Exeter University to assess the impact of renewable energy on wildlife populations.
Willey: As part of the TREE project, with academics at Universities of Nottingham, Salford, Stirling,
Portsmouth and Plymouth.
Stone: has ongoing collaborations with the Universities of Southampton, Nottingham Trent and
Sussex.
Stratakos: has ongoing collaborations with Queen’s University Belfast on isolating bioactive
substances from seaweed and assessing the potential of insects in animal feed.
Reynolds: has collaborations with the Universities of Bristol, Manchester, Birmingham, Centre for
Ecology and Hydrology (NERC), British Geological Survey, University College London, University of
Edinburgh focusing on water quality, antimicrobials and global health.
Turner: collaborates with academics at the Quadram Institute, University of Leicester and Public
Health England.

4.2 Examples of collaboration with stakeholders beyond academia
A key strength of the unit is the combination of fundamental and applied research expertise
faciliateted through collaboration with non-academic stakeholders in a variety of ways, as
evidenced by:

Allainguillaume & Wetten: with Cocoa Research UK and Mars Wrigley funding for studying Cacao
Swollen Shoot Virus.
Arnold: with a PDRA and two partnership PhD students funded by Forest Research and Woodland
Heritage on Acute Oak Decline.

                                                                                         Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Lintott: has strategic partnerships with Bat Conservation Trust, Sustrans, Bristol City Council,
Public Health England, Scottish Government, West of England Nature Partnership, Forest
Research.
Reynolds: has strategic partnerships with West Country Rivers Trust, Frank Water, Water Harvest,
British Geological Survey, Centre for Hydrology and Ecology, Environment Agency, Bristol Royal
Infirmary, Public Health England and industrial engagement with Creo Medical Ltd, Chelsea
Technologies Group, Portsmouth Aqua, Branston and B-Hive Innovations, Centrego Ltd, University
Hospitals Bristol (Children’s Burns Centre), Clear Water Revival, Bridge Biotechnology, South West
Water Ltd, Altered Carbon Ltd, Hydrolize Ltd, Robert Scott Ltd, SADABE and the Avon and
Somerset Wildlife Trust.
Willey: has collaborations with the Environment Agency and Radioactive Waste Management Ltd.
Partner organisations for the TREE project include International Atomic Energy Agency, Food
Standards Agency, Scottish Environmental Protection Agency, National Institute of Radiological
Sciences Japan, International Commission for Radiological Protection and the International Union
of Radioecology.
Hart and Doran: have collaborations with AHDB, JSR Genetics, Unilever plc as well as
international pig breeding companies in EU Countries and Ukraine.
Stone: has long term collaborations with the Department of National Parks and Wildlife Malawi,
Natural England, Bat Conservation Trust, Vincent Wildlife Trust, CSA Environmental, Government
of Malawi and Bat Conservation International.

4.3 Examples of externally recognized roles and activities
Reflecting the expertise present within the unit, members of APFE are involved in a range of grant
awarding bodies, act on journal editorial boards, take part in the governance of scientific societies,
are members of advisory boards and conference organizing committees and have been invited to
deliver research talks both internationally and nationally.

4.3.1 Grant awarding bodies
Arnold: is a core member of BBSRC Research Committee B – Plants, Microbes, Food and
Sustainability.
Doran: is a member of BBSRC Follow-on Fund Committee, a member of the BBSRC Bioscience
Skills and Careers Strategy Advisory Panel, the Executive Group, Bristol Health Partners, a
coordinator of Short-Term Scientific Missions (EU COST Action) and until 2019 was a member of
the Expert Panel of the Europen Food Standards Agency.
Reynolds: is a panel member for proof of concept calls for National Biofilms Innovation Centre
(BBSRC), Biotechnology Risk Assessment Grants program (USA), Hong Kong Research Council,
Chair of Biotechnology Funding Panel at Fundação para a Ciência e a Tecnologia (Portugal) and a
NERC peer review college member.
Stratakos: is an expert team member for the National Science Centre, Poland.
Staff are also recognised for their expertise and review for a number of funding bodies: BBSRC
(Arnold, Allainguillaume, Hancock, Turner, Willey, Wilson); NERC (Ellwood, Lintott,
Reynolds), Sêr Cymru (Business Wales) COFUND fellowships (Allainguillaume), EPSRC
(Reynolds), Global Challenges Research Fund (Reynolds), Agence Nationale de la Recherche
(France, Lintott); Agropolis Research Grants for Cacao research (France; Allainguillaume);
Slovenian Agency for Research grant scheme, Belgian National Research Foundation “Fonds
Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek” and Research Council of K.U. Leuven (Doran).

4.3.2 Membership of Editorial Boards
Arnold: Plant Pathology and PLOS One.
Hancock: PLOS One, Frontiers in Plant Science, Plant Cell and Environment and Reactive Oxygen
Species.
Reynolds: Journal of Sensing and Imaging, Sensors and the Water and Environment Journal.
Willey: International Journal of Phytoremediation, Water, Air & Soil Pollution.
Turner: Section editor for MDPI Viruses.
Stratakos: Topic Editor for MDPI Applied Sciences

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.3.3 Involvement in the governance of scientific societies, membership of advisory boards and
conference organizing committees.
Arnold: was President of the British Society of Plant Pathology (2019), Microbiology Society
representative for the UK Plant Sciences Federation and a programme committee member for
America Society of Microbiology (ASM) annual meetings 2018-19.
Ellwood: was a member of the Eden Project Science Steering Committee and an invited
symposium lead for the ASM 2019 annual meeting.
Hancock: was an organising member of 6th Plant Nitric Oxide International Meeting, Spain and 7th
Plant Nitric Oxide International Meeting, France.
Hart: is the Honorary Secretary of the Electroanalytical Sensing Systems group, Analytical Division,
Royal Society of Chemistry, a Scientific Committee Member of the Electrochem 2016 International
Conference organised by Royal Society of Chemistry and Society for Chemical Industry.
Willey: is Chair of the UK Co-ordinating Group on Environmental Radioactivity (COGER).
Doran: is a member of the European Association for Animal Production Working Group on Boar
Taint, and a member of the Management Group and Coordinator of Short-Term Scientific Missions
for the EU IPEMA COST Actions.
Stone: is a member of IUCN Hyaena and Bat Working Groups and organised the Rufford
Conservation Conference, Malawi, 2019.
Stratakos: is a member of the publications committee of the Institute of Food Science and
Technology.
Turner: is Vice-Chair of the Bacterial and Archael Viruses Subcommittee for the International
Committee on the Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV) and was an invited member of a discussion group
on emerging issues in virus taxonomy hosted by ICTV with support from the Wellcome Trust.
Reynolds: was Chair of the Tryptophan2020 Conference and member of the International Scientific
Committee for AQUA360, 2020.

4.3.4 Invited speakers.
Arnold: was a keynote speaker at Pseudomonas 2019 Maylasia and the 50th Anniversary
Congress of the Southern African Society for Plant Pathology in South Africa as well as giving
invited presentations at the University of Jerusalem, Israel and University of Kelaniya, Sri Lanka.
Ellwood: was an invited seminar speaker at the University of Reading and was invited to attend the
15th Annual Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil conference in Indonesia (2017). Allainguillaume
presented at the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, International Symposium on Cocoa
Research, Lima, Peru.
Lintott: presented at National Bat Conference, Britbats, 2018.
Willey: presented at the ‘Radioactivity and the Environment’ programme science meeting at
University of Bristol, South West Nuclear Hub seminar (2019).
Reynolds: was a keynote Speaker at European Geosciences Union General Assembly (University
of Umea, Sweden), the Annual Autumn Research Symposium, Abisko Scientific Research Station
2019 and was Chair of ‘Pitch at the Palace’, Bristol, 2017.
Doran: was an invited speaker for the EU workshop on meat quality detection in 2018, Monells,
Spain.
Stone: was Guest Speaker at the European Symposium for the Protetion of the Night Sky, Co.
Mayo, Ireland (2019).
Stratakos: was an invited speaker for the workshop ‘Understanding drivers of antimicrobial
resistance in the food chain’, Guangzhou, China, 2019.
Brady: gave invited presentations to the Action Oak meeting at Kew Gardens, 2019 and SfAM
Applications of Plant Pathology, 2018.
Turner: gave an invited presentation at the Oxford Bacteriophage Conference, 2018.




                                                                                        Page 13
