Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen’s University Belfast

 Unit of Assessment: 19

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Summary
 Since its foundation in the 1950s, Queen’s Department of Politics and International Relations has
 had as its mission the furtherance of those core aspects of the discipline for which it steadily gained
 particular renown. It has also had as its mission sustained engagement with pressing local,
 national, and international political questions, the Troubles, as well as other conflicts and peace
 processes, and, more recently, Brexit being two examples among many. To enhance this mission,
 the Dept. has pursued the following strategic goals over the current REF cycle:
   augmenting the four research strengths for which it is known internationally and expanding
      these in areas targeted for growth by recruiting outstanding early-career and established
      researchers;
   sustaining its recognized dynamic interdisciplinary research culture via its research groups,
      centres, and affiliated research institute;
   advancing its reputation for excellence in research, publications, grant income capture, and
      research impact activity;
   deepening and extending its presence within the discipline and profession globally.
 As evidenced below, the Dept. has had real success in implementing this research strategy over
 this cycle and will continue to pursue it during the coming REF period.

 Context and Structure
 Politics/IR in Queen’s is by far the largest institutional centre for the study of politics and
 international relations on the island of Ireland and amongst the largest in the UK. It has 35
 members of staff (32.9 FTE), being comprised of 29 full-time academics (teaching & research), 1
 part-time academic, 3 research fellows, and 2 ‘world leading researchers’ with longstanding
 connections to the Dept., alongside 40 research students. Since REF2014 its academic profile
 has undergone change with retirements/departures and 12 new staff hired over the cycle, but with
 the Dept.’s mission remaining constant. In addition, the School that previously housed the Dept.
 (School of Politics, International Studies, and Philosophy) merged in 2016 into the new School of
 History, Anthropology, Philosophy, and Politics (HAPP). This merger enabled the Dept. to develop
 its disciplinary research strengths in strategically important directions, target resources at its
 research priorities, facilitate further formal and informal interdisciplinary links between HAPP’s four
 disciplines, and augment its already dynamic PGR culture.

 The Dept.’s research is structured according to its four key disciplinary research strengths and
 groups across three levels of activity (in line with the Institution’s research ‘ecosystem’—
 Institutional Environment Statement (IES), section 2c.):

 Table 1
  Disciplinary Research Strengths and          Politics/IR Research         University Global
  Groups                                       Centres                      Research Institute

  *International Relations                     *Study of Ethnic Conflict    *Mitchell Institute
  *Political Institutions and Behaviour        *Gender in Politics
  *Nationalism and Ethnic Conflict             *Democracy Unit
    Studies                                    *Sustainability, Equality
  *Political Theory                              and Climate Action

 1. Disciplinary Research Strengths and Groups. The Dept.’s four research strengths are
 pursued by four research groups that together encompass all colleagues and provide the
 foundation for all research undertaken. These groups are:
  International Relations (IR, 12 academics);
                                                   1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Political Institutions and Behaviour (PIB, 10 academics);
  Nationalism and Ethnic Conflict Studies (NECS, 6 academics);
  Political Theory (PT, 7 academics).
 These groups are generally informal and porous, with, for example, a number of IR colleagues
 being also conflict studies specialists. Importantly, several colleagues across the groups are Irish
 politics and EU specialists, underpinning the Dept.’s recognized excellence in research on
 nationalism/unionism, the Northern Irish conflict, and Brexit and the Irish/UK border (see section
 4 below).

 2. Dept.-based Research Centres. Disciplinary and interdisciplinary research in the Dept. is
 facilitated by four research centres whose membership cuts across the Dept.’s research groups.
 These are:
  Centre for the Study of Ethnic Conflict (NECS, IR colleagues);
  Centre for Gender in Politics (NECS, IR, PT colleagues);
  The Democracy Unit (colleagues from all research groups);
  Centre for Sustainability, Equality and Climate Action (IR, PT colleagues).
 As evidenced below, these centres have been important in consolidating expertise and facilitating
 research grant and engagement activities.

 3. University Global Research Institute. The Senator George J. Mitchell Institute for Global
 Peace, Security and Justice acts as a hub for peace and security research and innovation at
 Queen’s, with a critical mass of researchers and collaborative partnerships and postgraduate
 activity. 16 colleagues from across the Dept. are currently members. Participation in this institute,
 for example, enabled Dept. colleagues (Garry, O’Leary) to collaborate with other University and
 external researchers to successfully apply for a Joseph Roundtree grant on referendums and Irish
 unity, the findings of which were subsequently co-launched by the Democracy Unit.

 Levels 1 and 2 of the Dept.’s research activities are underpinned by a lean School research
 administrative structure designed to reduce bureaucratic burdens. While the Dept.’s research
 groups and centres are purposely self-organizing, they are supported by a Politics/IR Research
 Lead (Breen). The Research Lead facilitates research group and centre activity by representing
 the Dept. on the School’s Research Committee, chaired by the School’s Director of Research. The
 Research Committee has oversight for all research matters in HAPP, including the development
 of research strategy, grant activity and impact plans, links with external academics and partners,
 and compliance with open access and research ethics policies. It is additionally responsible for
 allocating internal funding (£100,000 annually) for research activities (conference travel, research
 group and centre workshops/seminars series, fieldwork trips, impact support, collaborative bids
 preparation, etc). The Research Lead also represents the Dept. on the School’s Senior
 Management Board, which has oversight for setting strategic priorities, resource allocation across
 HAPP’s four disciplines, and new appointments. In addition to the School structure, there are
 regular Politics/IR research group meetings to discuss ideas for conferences, grants, etc., as well
 as four annual Dept. meetings to discuss Dept.-specific priorities, current direction, and
 opportunities that arise.

 The three levels of research activity and the administrative structure effected through the School
 merger have directly enabled Politics/IR colleagues to meet their strategic objectives over this
 REF cycle and provide a solid basis for the Dept. in realizing its objectives over the coming REF
 period.

 Research Strategy
 In REF2014, the research strategy pursued by Politics/IR colleagues was to:
  augment their key research strengths and maintain a critical mass of researchers;
  enhance their collaborative disciplinary and interdisciplinary research culture;
  facilitate world-leading publications, increased grant activity, and greater research impact (see
     also section 3.);


                                                  2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    develop linkages, collaborative partnerships, and networks to further their national and
     international reach.
 These strategic aims were formally reviewed following the 2016 merger that led to the Dept.
 becoming one discipline within a larger School. The resulting disciplinary strategy, agreed in 2018,
 re-confirmed their applicability during the current REF cycle and over the coming period.

 Pursuing this disciplinary strategy led to demonstrable achievements since REF2014,
 specifically:
  publication of outstanding research in world-leading presses and journals across the Dept.’s
     four research groups (see outputs list and section 4) and deepening of its impact activities;
  growth in PGR cohort and strengthening of PGR research culture (see section 2. for robust
     completion rate, increased international PGRs, and marked PGR employment successes);
  increased Dept. strength and quality through recruiting outstanding ECR and established
     staff, as well as fellows (see research groups below and section 2.);
  marked growth in research income capture (143% increase—section 3.);
  enhancement of an established research centre and establishment of three new research
     centres (below);
  Politics/IR colleagues’ immersion in collaborative international research networks and
     leadership positions within the discipline globally (section 4.).

 These achievements have been made possible by concerted effort on all three levels of the Dept.’s
 research, with the four research groups playing a vital role:

 a) International Relations. Identified as an area for strategic development, the IR group benefited
 from significant investment over the cycle, making it the largest group within the discipline and an
 internationally respected body for the study of all aspects of international relations and politics.

 The group has three research pillars. The ‘Foreign affairs and international politics’ pillar has 5
 colleagues (Andreasson, Lee, Miskimmon, O’Doherty, Rossone de Paula) engaged in
 research on foreign policy analysis, international diplomacy, international political economy and
 development, international environmental politics, and critical perspectives on international
 relations. The pillar also has strong specialisms in African, East-Asian, EU, and US international
 politics. The second research pillar is ‘Security and terrorism studies’, with 3 colleagues (Bourne,
 Dietl, Thomson. Brighton and Milton-Edwards are on leave of absence/secondment) conducting
 research on security studies, arms and border control, nuclear weapons and disarmament treaties,
 terrorism/counter-terrorism, paramilitaries, security technology, and critical security theory. The
 third pillar, ‘Borders, migration, and gender’, includes 4 colleagues (Hagen, Johnson, Lisle,
 Zhang) researching migration and border security, citizenship regimes/policy, international
 political sociology and theory, feminist international relations, visual global politics, and gender,
 peace, & security studies.

 The IR group has pursued three main seminar/discussion activities over the cycle:
  from 2012-17, IR academics were active in organizing the weekly, Dept.-wide ‘Research-in-
     Progress Seminar’ in which staff, PhD students, and external speakers presented papers;
  this was succeeded by two initiatives in 2018, an ‘International Relations Discussion Group’
     that regularly brings staff and PGRs together to discuss work-in-progress, plus an
     ‘International Relations and Political Science Seminar’ series providing a bespoke vehicle for
     the dissemination of IR-staff/PGR and invited-speaker research;
  a ‘Feminist Peace and Security Seminar’ series initiated by the Centre for Gender in Politics
     in autumn 2019.

 As regards the latter, the IR group was instrumental in the formation of the Centre for Gender in
 Politics (Hagen and Deiana, co-chairs) in 2019. In addition, IR colleagues have been active in the
 Centre for Sustainability, Equality and Climate Action (Andreasson) and especially the Mitchell
 Institute, which has 4 IR academics as fellows (Bourne, Johnson, Lisle, Thomson) who have
 played important roles (e.g., Bourne, Security Theme Lead, 2017-18).
                                                  3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 b) Political Institutions and Behaviour. The PIB group has bolstered its profile since REF2014
 by consolidating its research strengths around two pillars. The ‘European politics’ pillar has 5
 academics (Gravey, Lacatus, McCall, McGowan, Phinnemore) who research EU politics,
 European integration/treaty reform, EU environmental/agricultural policy, the European far-right,
 Brexit, European borders and cross-border cooperation/conflict transformation, European human
 rights governance, and EU anti-corruption polices. The second pillar, ‘Electoral politics and
 political systems’, comprises 5 academics (Fabre, Garry, MacCarthaigh, Pow, Raymond) expert
 in party systems, electoral politics, political attitudes/behaviour, devolution and political
 innovations, deliberative democracy, parliamentary representation, public administration,
 comparative politics, and Irish/UK politics.

 The PIB group has developed its research through various vehicles:
  participation from 2012-17 in Dept.-wide ‘Research-in-Progress Seminar’ series and
     subsequently, together with IR colleagues, in the ‘International Relations and Political Science
     Seminar’ series;
  membership and participation in the Queen’s Law-based Centre for European and
     Transnational Studies (Gravey, McGowan, Phinnemore);
  presentation of work-in-progress in the Queen’s-based ‘Brexit Clinic’ and ‘Brexit Forum’.

 In 2019, PIB colleagues (Garry, Raymond) initiated, together with academics from across
 Politics/IR and the University, The Democracy Unit, core to which is an annual programme of
 visiting speakers. In addition, the PIB group has a strong presence in the Mitchell Institute, with 6
 colleagues currently members (Garry, MacCarthaigh, McCall, McGowan, Phinnemore, Raymond),
 two of whom were previously seconded as senior research fellows (Garry, McCall).

 c) Nationalism and Ethnic Conflict Studies. The NECS group plays a vibrant role in conducting
 and disseminating cutting-edge research on core aspects of nationalism and ethnic conflict. The
 group has 6 colleagues (Agarin, Coakley, Deiana, English, McLoughlin, O’Leary) specialised
 in ethnic conflict studies, nationalism and Irish nationalism, unionism, Northern Ireland and the
 Republic of Ireland, comparative conflict and divided societies, European minorities and
 diasporas, and consociationalism/power-sharing. NECS colleagues work very closely with PIB
 (e.g., Garry, Pow) colleagues with Irish politics expertise, as well as with HAPP historians
 (O’Callaghan, G. Walker).

 The group has advanced its strong research culture in various ways, including:
  participation in the Dept.-wide ‘Research-in-Progress Seminar’ series;
  organizing regular workshops and seminars via the Centre for the Study of Ethnic Conflict
     (Agarin, director). This Centre was established in 1998 and is a bulwark of the group’s
     research and mission, providing a home for several visiting research fellows engaged in
     various collaborations;
  participation in the Institute of Irish Studies seminar series organized by HAPP historians
     (English, McLoughlin being associate fellows of the IIS).

 The NECS group is also active in the Mitchell Institute, with 5 colleagues currently members
 (Agarin, Coakley, English, McLoughlin, O’Leary), one as a Distinguished Professorial Fellow
 (English).

 d) Political Theory. Political theory has long been a significant research field at Queen’s, with
 colleagues drawing on both Anglo-American and Continental traditions. There are 7 political
 theorists in the Dept. (Barry, Breen, Fischer, Kazmi, Kuyper, McBride, McManus) who
 research republicanism, democratic theory, deliberative democracy, workplace democracy,
 recognition theory, feminism, poststructuralist theory, pragmatism, critical theory, green political
 economy and climate/environmental ethics, international political theory, and Islamic political
 thought. PT colleagues closely collaborate with other Politics/IR colleagues with theoretical


                                                  4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 backgrounds and have cultivated strong links with HAPP philosophers (T. Walker, Watkins, S.
 Whitten).

 Theory research is advanced by PT colleagues participating in various workshops and seminar
 series, in particular the Political Theory and Philosophy Seminar series. A partnership with the
 School’s philosophers, this series meets weekly and hosts staff, PGR, and external speakers, as
 well as on average two large workshops annually. In collaboration with research centres
 throughout the Republic of Ireland, PT colleagues also set up an All-Ireland Online Seminar Series
 in Political Theory, which meets monthly with an international audience.

 In addition, political theorists helped initiate The Democracy Unit (Breen, McBride) and contribute
 to the work of the Centre for Gender in Politics (Fischer). PT also has a presence within the Mitchell
 Institute, with one colleague based there as senior research fellow (Kazmi).

 Of further note is PT leadership (Barry) and membership (Breen) of the Centre for Sustainability,
 Equality and Climate Action. Established through a 2017 Pioneer Research Programme fund (IES,
 section 2c.), this centre facilitates research on sustainability, inequality, and the environment
 across the University’s Faculties and Schools through fostering internal and external collaborative
 networks that have been instrumental in PT’s research grant successes (section 4.).

 Impact Strategy
 The research strengths and the multilevel activities just described are also decisive for the Dept.’s
 impact strategy. Since REF2014, the Dept. has continued to embed its impact agenda in its
 broader research culture, from PGRs to senior academic staff, and to provide institutional
 support for impact capacity and relationships with external stakeholders. Politics/IR’s location in a
 large School means it can draw on a wide range of expertise in developing and implementing its
 impact plans. The School has a dedicated Impact/Public Engagement Champion who contributes
 to a School-wide impact strategy as part of the Research Committee, disseminates information
 regarding support for impact across the Faculty (e.g., ESRC Impact Accelerator Account funds),
 and provides assistance on an individual basis when needed. The School also enjoys professional
 support from a full-time, Faculty-based Research Impact Officer in developing its impact activities.
 In addition, the Dept. has its own Impact Case Study Officer (Garry) whose goal is to identify early
 strong pathways to impact, guide case study authors on progressing their case studies, and
 manage impact assistants (School-based PGRs funded by the Research Committee and the
 University’s Research Policy Office) in the collation of supporting data and evidence.

 Politics/IR’s impact strategy has coalesced over the cycle around three areas, reflecting
 important research strengths, especially within the PIB group. These are:
  female representation within political parties and parliaments;
  deliberative democracy and citizen assemblies in Ireland;
  influencing government and public policy in Brexit preparations.

 Whilst the PIB group has shouldered the greatest responsibility for driving the Dept.’s impact
 strategy within this cycle, there are other productive examples of impact across Politics/IR that will
 be nurtured over the coming period (see section 4.). Indeed, all colleagues are encouraged to
 engage with external bodies at an early stage in the development of their research where this is
 appropriate. A suite of measures is in place to support this, including:
  training events organised by the Faculty Research Impact Officer to which all staff are invited
      (e.g., Developing Impact Case Studies seminars, Engaging with Parliaments workshops);
  individual support from the Faculty Research Impact Officer, the School Impact/Public
      Engagement Champion, and the Dept.’s Impact Case Study Officer;
  feedback on pathways to impact from other members of Politics/IR as part of ongoing
      provision for new projects and grant proposals as they develop.



                                                   5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Open Access and Research Integrity
 The Dept. is fully compliant with the Queen’s Open Access policy (IES, section 2f.). All new staff
 and PGRs receive training in OA requirements from a Library-based OA team who act as the point
 of contact for queries about OA and related issues. To advance a deeper OA environment, staff
 are encouraged to factor in publishing via ‘gold’ OA in grant applications. They are similarly
 encouraged to disseminate their findings through Queen’s Policy Engagement (QPOL), a free
 platform supporting staff and PGRs in sharing research on the major social, political, and economic
 challenges facing society nationally and internationally. This is in addition to dissemination of
 research via contributions to Queen’s showcase Sharing a Better World initiative, the APPS Policy
 Forum, Agenda NI, The Conversation, Knowledge Exchange Seminars, PSA blog, The Strategist,
 UK in a Changing Europe, Tedx talks, etc. Colleagues also publicize their research via
 national/international print (Belfast Telegraph, Financial Times, Guardian, Irish Independent, Irish
 Times, Le Monde, Le Soir, Los Angeles Times, Sydney Morning Herald, Tagesspiegel, Telegraph,
 Washington Post, etc.), radio (BBC Radio 4, BBC World Service, RTE, Radio Halland, VRT, etc.),
 and TV media (ABC News, Al Jazeera, BBC News, France 24, NBC News, RTE, Sky News, etc.).

 The Dept. is deeply cognizant of the importance of maintaining the highest ethical standards in
 research undertaken by staff and students, whether funded by the School or externally. All staff
 and student research involving human participants and their data is therefore reviewed by a
 School-based Research Ethics Committee, comprised of a Chair, a member from each of HAPP’s
 four disciplines, and an external lay member. The School REC reviews research proposals in
 accordance to the ESRC’s Framework for Research Ethics principles, and communicates Queen’s
 own research ethics governance policies to staff and students. Training in research ethics for staff
 and PGRs is provided at a University-wide level and via HAPP research training and methods
 modules.
 2. People

 Summary
 Recruiting and retaining excellent staff is crucial to the mission of Politics/IR at Queen’s. Thus, in
 conjunction with HAPP’s other disciplines, the Dept. has striven hard to provide a consistent and
 supportive environment for all researchers, from PGRs, through early-career researchers, to
 senior professors. In particular, the Dept. has:
  recruited a vibrant cohort of early-career researchers, as well as more established staff, so as
     to enhance its four research strengths;
  prioritized staff development and progression, with an emphasis on early-career colleagues;
  augmented its dynamic PGR research culture;
  cultivated a constructive workplace and ensured equality of opportunity for all staff and
     students.

 Staffing Profile and Recruitment
 The Dept. currently has 10 professors, 2 readers, 8 senior lecturers, 3 research fellows, and 12
 lecturers. 28 (79%) staff are on permanent contracts and 7 (21%) on fixed-term contracts of
 varying lengths. 22 (63%) academics are male and 13 female (37%). The Dept.’s gender balance
 has been affected by senior female staff departing (Galligan) and on secondment (Milton-
 Edwards), but it is recognized as a strategic priority. Of the 12 staff hires over the cycle, 9 (75%)
 have been female, which represents a distinct improvement on the circumstances of REF2014
 and will address the gender imbalance over time.

 All Politics/IR colleagues are embedded in the School’s management structure, with
 established staff occupying key leadership positions—e.g., Head of School (Miskimmon), Director
 of Graduate Studies (Bourne)—and early-career staff less demanding roles. New and early-career
 staff are prepared for the later assumption of leadership roles through mentoring from established
 staff and membership of the School’s committees (Research Committee, Education Committee,
 etc.).


                                                   6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Throughout this cycle, the Dept.’s strategy has been to sustain a critical mass of Politics/IR
 academics at Queen’s by replacing departing staff in areas targeted for growth. Staff numbers
 have thus remained stable, with staff turnover being moderate. Where members of staff have been
 absent for extended periods steps were taken to ensure that this does not undercut the research
 time available for other colleagues by, e.g., employing fixed-term staff to cover their responsibilities
 (Gravey, O’Doherty, and Rossone de Paula are replacements for permanent staff on
 secondments). Links with retired professorial staff are maintained via emeritus professorships
 (Bew, Galligan, Geoghegan, Guelke) that ensure their continued engagement with Dept.’s
 research culture.

 The Dept. has held to its established policy of employing University-funded ‘world leading
 researchers’ (WLRs) with outstanding expertise in its key research strengths. The Dept.’s 2
 WLRs, Coakley (University College Dublin) and O’Leary (University of Pennsylvania), are
 embedded in the NECS group and work closely with academics from across the Dept., particularly
 the PIB group. Their purpose is to augment the Dept.’s research collaborations—leading, e.g., to
 increased grant capture (section 4. below)—offer guidance to colleagues and PGRs, and regularly
 conduct seminars. A priority for the WLRs is also to engage in output-oriented collaboration with
 early-career academics. For example, they have co-authored journal articles (in Regional Studies,
 Government and Opposition, Irish Political Studies) with PGRs (L. Whitten), post-docs (Mathews,
 McNicholl), and junior lecturers (Pow).

 In addition, the Dept. has prioritized securing excellent early-career researchers via prestigious
 fellowships. For example, the PT research group was boosted by the award to Fischer of a 5-
 year Illuminate Vice-Chancellor's Fellowship in 2019 (IES, section 3b.). The Dept. also recruited
 Lacatus through the highly competitive Hillary Rodham Clinton Early Career Fellowship scheme.

 Staff Development and Early-Career Progression
 All Dept. staff contribute to the School’s research, teaching, and administrative activities in
 accordance with a Workload Allocation Model that apportions responsibilities in a transparent way.
 To enable their incorporation into School activities, new appointees on permanent contracts
 have an initial period of probation that typically lasts three years for those at the start of their
 career, a period that can be reduced where performance merits it, as has often been the case.
 The Dept. has very a healthy cohort of 11 early-career staff, representing 31% of its total, of
 whom 7 have permanent contracts. During probation staff are assigned a mentor who provides
 regular guidance as regards publications, grant income, PGR supervision, training opportunities,
 and professional development. Fixed-term early-career staff are similarly mentored, with a
 particular focus—and working closely with the Faculty Research Development Officer—on
 fellowships and other funding opportunities that would further their careers.

 New early-career staff also have a reduced teaching and administration load during their
 probation to facilitate their research throughout this period. In addition, they are provided with a
 £4,000 career-development ‘starter pack’ to enable ambitious research, network, and partnership
 activities. At least once a year the School Probation Committee (including the Head of School,
 Director of Research, and Director of Education) meets with each new member of staff to consider
 progress and provide feedback. While these formal mentoring arrangements cease with
 confirmation in post, informal mentoring at both School and Dept. level continues to be available
 for all members of staff.

 Following completion of probation, all staff participate in annual ‘academic progression’ meetings
 with a senior Dept. colleague. As explained in the IES (section 3a.), these have been streamlined
 to ensure their focus is on supporting colleagues’ development and career progression.
 Progression meetings include a detailed discussion of all aspects of research, from academic
 outputs and grant applications to impact and public engagement activities. They also provide an
 opportunity for individuals to reflect on their career stage and what is needed to move to the next
 stage in a supportive environment. There have been several promotions over the cycle period and
 all early-career staff who completed their probationary period have been confirmed in post.
                                                     7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Queen’s supports the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and has
 developed a research development framework in line with it (IES, section 3b.). This includes a
 suite of training courses and workshops covering all aspects of research, with different courses
 being tailored to the needs of those at distinct career stages. The School encourages all staff,
 particularly post-doctoral research assistants (PDRAs) and early-career staff, to take advantage
 of these as part of their career-development plans. In addition to centrally provided training
 opportunities, workshops are regularly organised by both the School and Faculty that focus on the
 specific needs of researchers in their disciplines. These have comprised, among other things,
 workshops on impact tailored for researchers in the social sciences that include input from end-
 users of this type of research.

 All full-time and part-time members of academic staff on teaching and research contracts are
 eligible to apply for one semester of sabbatical leave after every six semesters of qualifying
 service (time on probation is included in qualifying service). All permanent staff within the Dept.
 fall into this category. Those applying for sabbatical leave are required to develop, in discussion
 with the School’s Director of Research, a plan for the period requested that includes outputs, grant
 applications, and impact and public engagement activities as appropriate.

 As discussed above (section 1.), the School has a dedicated Research Budget to support
 conference participation, fieldwork research, pre-bid activities, and the organization of
 workshops/seminar series. All staff, including PDRAs and fixed-term academics, are eligible to
 apply to this as and when required. Applications are assessed by the Politics/IR Research Lead,
 with approval of applications and oversight of the research budget lying with the School Research
 Committee. Staff also have access to various centrally administered funds to support research-
 related activities, (e.g., the University Impact Support Fund, Academic Staff Conference Fund,
 Research Grant Enabler Fund, etc.).

 As outlined in the IES (section 3a.), the University has measures in place to recognise researchers
 who have performed excellently. These measures include annual ‘performance awards’ and the
 Vice-Chancellor’s Research Prizes, with, for example, Gravey being shortlisted for the Vice-
 Chancellor’s Impact Prize in 2018.

 PGR Students
 The Dept. has a vibrant doctoral programme and continues to draw sizeable numbers of high-
 quality students attracted by the depth and breadth of its research base. Between 1 August 2013
 and 31 July 2020, 51 students successfully completed their PhDs and there are currently 40
 registered PGR students, of whom 20 (50%) are male and 20 (50%) female, a heartening statistic.
 The majority of currently registered PGRs are from the UK (22, 55%), but with a substantial
 proportion of EU (7, 17.5%) and, in particular, international (11, 27.5%) students, the latter
 category more than doubling since REF2014 (then 12.2% International PGRs).

 The Dept. has benefitted from the School’s wider recruitment and internationalization
 strategies. Just as decisive in recruiting quality doctoral students is the Dept.’s suite of MA
 programmes. Currently there are 7 MA programmes, the content of which is regularly reviewed
 based on assessments of market conditions and the Dept.’s research strengths. Combined, they
 attract a large cohort of PGT students (e.g., 169 in 2019-20), a good number of whom go on to
 pursue doctoral research in the School.

 Successful PhD applicants are funded by various sources. These include the prestigious
 Northern Bridge (AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership) and the NINE DTP (Northern Ireland
 and North East ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership) scholarship and training programmes, as
 well as the LINCS (Leverhulme Interdisciplinary Network on Cybersecurity and Society)
 programme managed through the Mitchell Institute (McCall, coordinator). Another vital source of
 funding is the NI DfE (Department of Economy) studentship fund. Over the cycle, PGRs have
 also been funded by the Queen’s International Scholarship fund and the Commonwealth

                                                  8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Scholarship fund, as well as by Mexican, Columbian, and UAE government scholarships and the
 Marshall Scholarship programme.

 Enhancing the research culture and experience of PGR students is a major goal of both the Dept.
 and School. The key priorities are:
  engaging with and responding to the needs of postgraduate students;
  providing high-quality training and development opportunities for the PGR community;
  fostering an integrated research culture from postgraduates to professoriate.

 As regards needs, each research student is allocated two supervisors for the duration of their
 study whom they meet at least 10 times per year. Progress is monitored via annual progress
 reviews carried out by an independent panel. At an initial 3-month review, supervisors and
 students undertake a training-needs assessment. Training needs are thereafter monitored through
 subsequent annual reviews. Full-time students registered for a PhD complete differentiation within
 the first year. Following that, each annual review has a different format, reflecting what is
 appropriate for that stage of study. These reviews provide an opportunity for students to discuss
 progress over the last year and their plans for the coming year.

 Politics/IR PGRs are fully integrated into a School-wide doctoral training programme that, in line
 with the University’s and Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework, aims both to develop
 research skills and enhance employability. This programme is managed by the School’s Director
 of Graduate Studies and the School Postgraduate Research Committee, which includes four
 student representatives. A PGR also sits on the School Research Committee to ensure PGRs’
 views are considered in matters relating to research and training.

 Over recent years, HAPP has revised its postgraduate research skills training, culminating in the
 module HAP7001 that introduces PGT and year-1 PGR students to the principles of high-quality
 research and develops students’ skills through a series of workshops on social-science methods.
 In addition, all PGR students are required to undertake the equivalent of 10 days developmental
 training annually. Students funded through the Northern Bridge and NINE DTP programmes
 undertake further training, including a range of research methods courses provided by the
 consortiums’ partner Universities.

 PGR students are encouraged to avail of training provided through the Graduate School, a
 dedicated social and academic space for postgraduate students at Queen’s located across from
 the School (IES, section 3c.). Most notably it offers the Postgraduate Research Development
 Framework, with a wide range of training courses and one-to-one support. Dept. colleagues have
 also utilized the Graduate School to deliver Politics/IR-specific training events, including Research
 Scholar Workshops (co-organized by English from 2017 onwards). Further discipline-specific
 training is provided within HAPP, including ‘meet-the-editors’ panel events on publishing,
 preparing for progress review workshops, and an annual School-funded, 4-day writing retreat in
 the Mourne mountains during which PGRs and staff discuss their research and exchange ideas.

 The School also delivers training for PGR student Teaching Assistants, who are contracted to
 teach undergraduate seminars (levels 1, 2 UG modules). This affords PGRs the opportunity to
 gain teaching skills and experience. Teaching Assistants are mentored by a senior TA Tutor and
 by module convenors during teaching periods. PGR students are now also able to apply for
 Associate Fellow of the HEA status via the Queen’s Merit Award scheme.

 The School provides offices, PCs, telephones, and printing equipment for 139 doctoral
 students in all. Those in their first year are located in shared labs, with those in later years housed
 in two- or three-person offices. Two offices are set aside as teaching-assistant rooms to allow for
 one-to-one meetings with students. The School provides two common rooms (with kitchens) for
 its research students. They also have access to facilities, including group-study rooms and a silent-
 study area, in the Graduate School. A January 2019 PGR survey indicated high levels of
 satisfaction with their workspace and working culture.

                                                   9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGR research activity is supported in various ways. Students with Northern Bridge, Nine DTP,
 LINCS, and DfE scholarships have £900 annually for conference participation and other research
 activity. PGRs without a scholarship can apply to the School for up to £500 annually for the same.
 The School (as well as Graduate School) also funds PGR-led initiatives, such as workshops and
 conferences. These have included:
  the creation of a Researching Brexit Group by NINE DTP-funded PGRs, with its own blog and
      twitter account. This led to the organization of a NINE DTP-wide Queen’s-based symposium
      in February 2019 and a ‘Researching Brexit Conference’ held in Durham, October 2019;
  a cross-disciplinary conference, ‘New Perspectives on Non-State Political Violence’, Queen’s,
      November 2019;
  PT group PGR organization of the Society for Women in Philosophy annual conference,
      Queen’s, February 2019, in conjunction with the Philosophy PGRs.
  an international workshop on ‘Posthuman Politics and Security’, Queen’s, June 2018.

 The Dept. encourages and assists its PGRs to publish their research, with the result that several
 monographs and dozens of research articles have been published with leading publishers and
 journals by both completed and registered PGRs in the cycle. These include publications by
 Brennan (PSAI best thesis award 2018), Buckley, Fremaux, Frost, Glouftsios, Hume, Knowles,
 Matthews, MacCormaic, McMorrow, McNicholl, McQueen, Meagher, Miller, Mills, Pow,
 Shuttleworth, Snyder, Tanczer, Ugur, Warren, and L. Whitten.

 The quality of the School’s doctoral programme and its research environment is attested to by
 Politics/IR students’ strong record of obtaining academic posts or non-academic posts in
 prominent organizations. Recent graduates have secured posts at St Andrews, Swansea,
 Trento, Montreal, UCC, Durham, Edinburgh, Leuven, London South Bank, Monroe College
 (Illinois), Sligo IT, Istanbul University, Bristol, Portsmouth, Salford, UCL, and Rikkyo University.
 Non-academic destinations include the Consulate General of Ireland (Shanghai), Amnesty
 International, Joseph Rowntree Trust, Irish Department of Culture, Heritage & the Gaeltacht, US
 Institute of Peace, FairVote Washington D.C., Scottish Government Statistics Office, UN Anti-
 Corruption Unit (Columbia), etc.

 Equality and Diversity
 A concern for equality and diversity lies at the heart of practices established across the Dept. and
 School. In constructing its REF submission, the Dept. closely followed the guidelines in the
 University’s REF Code of Practice. The School, in turn, fully implements the University’s equality
 and diversity policies as set out in the IES (section 3d.)—including training courses such as ‘Think
 Difference, Act Differently’, ‘Unconscious Bias’, etc.—and disseminates the work of Queen’s
 BAME/International, LGBTQ+, and gender networks. Moreover, School staff played an active role
 in the lead up to the two former Schools (Politics, Philosophy, and International Studies; History
 and Anthropology) being both accorded Athena SWAN Bronze Awards prior to their merger. A
 single, School-wide SWAN application was submitted in November 2020.

 Equality and diversity activity in the School is largely conducted under the rubric of the SWAN
 agenda, overseen by the School’s SWAN Champion and the SWAN Committee, which has
 representatives from all categories of staff and student. Activities directed by the SWAN
 Committee include: a gender culture survey; gender/racial bias reviews of modules; race, sexual
 orientation, and (trans)gender awareness training for academic staff, PGRs and support staff (via
 Queen’s Diversity & Inclusion Unit in partnership with the Rainbow Project, HereNI, Stonewall,
 and TransgenderNI); unconscious gender/racial bias training for TAs; avoidance of all-male panels
 for female candidates’ vivas/APRs; and the development of a School Anti-Harassment and
 Bullying Support Guide to supplement University policies. In addition, the Dept. has longstanding
 expertise (see impact case study on gender representation) in equality and diversity research,
 coalescing currently around the Centre for Gender in Politics.

 Alongside adhering to family-friendly ‘core hours’ (meetings held between 10 am and 4 pm) and
 facilitating part-time working for colleagues with dependants, the School has undertaken concrete
                                                 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 actions to support early-career female academics in developing their careers. These include
 establishing a SWAN Grant Support Fund to provide teaching support to staff at lecturer level
 preparing large grant applications and running in-house probation and promotions workshops.
 Further, HAPP follows the University’s recommendation to facilitate a teaching-free semester for
 colleagues returning from maternity leave, giving them space to catch up on their research.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 From August 2013 to July 2020, the Dept. more than doubled its research income (143%),
 compared to August 2008 to July 2013, from £2,065,643 to £5,025,972. The biggest funders have
 been the UKRI Research Councils and British Academy (£2,124,935), followed by UK central
 government bodies and authorities (£1,602,860), EU government bodies (£709,235), UK-based
 charities (£359,040), EU industry and corporations (£73,681), Non-EU based charities (£105,308),
 other EU funders (£35,201), and Non-EU industry and corporations (£15,712). This translates into
 £152,765 per FTE.

 This massive increase was facilitated by the University’s ambitious corporate plan and driven by
 the Dept.’s research strategy (section 1. above). Decisive here was the objective of amplifying the
 Dept.’s four research strengths, whilst also promoting collaborative interdisciplinary research via
 its centres and the Mitchell Institute. This was accompanied by a deepening of the Dept.’s
 research income culture, the latter being viewed not as the preserve and responsibility of ‘star
 researchers’ but of all academic staff without distinction.

 The Dept. encourages staff to apply to the full range of funders, but with an emphasis on Research
 Councils and other large funding bodies. In developing and executing its research-funding
 strategy, the Dept. has played to those of its strengths reflecting funder and government
 priorities, especially Brexit and the Irish border; security and technology; migration; power-
 sharing and post-conflict societies; and climate change and environmental policy. All four of the
 Dept.’s groups have been successful in securing research funding:

 a) International Relations. IR colleagues have won several prestigious grants. For example,
 collaborating with colleagues in the Mitchell Institute and beyond, Bourne, Johnson, and Lisle
 secured two research council grants (‘Trust: Tracing Risk and Uncertainty in Security Technology’,
 ESRC/AHRC/DSTL, £235,568; ‘Treating People as Objects? Ethics, Security, and the
 Governance of Mobility’, AHRC, £191,543). There have also been notable individual awards,
 including Johnson’s ESRC grant at early-career stage (‘Boats, Borders and Asylum: Global
 Politics of Irregular Migration in Maritime Space’, £139,302).

 b) Political Institutions and Behaviour. Similar successes were achieved by PIB colleagues.
 Highlights here are early-career Gravey securing a large collaborative grant (‘Divergence,
 Dismantling and Contestation: Brexit and the Repoliticisation of UK Environmental Governance?’,
 ESRC Brexit Priority Grant, £246,881), McCall’s spearheading, via the Mitchell Institute, of the
 LINCS (Leverhulme Interdisciplinary Network on Cybersecurity and Society) Doctoral
 Scholarships Programme (£1,050,000), and McGowan’s Jean Monnet Centre of Excellence
 Award (€75,000).

 c) Nationalism and Ethnic Conflict Studies. NECS colleagues also secured prestigious grants.
 Via the Centre for the Study of Ethnic Conflict, Agarin had various projects funded (e.g., ‘Exclusion
 amid Inclusion: Power-Sharing and Non-Dominant Minorities’, ESRC, £350,000; ‘Role of Civil
 Society in Governance of Post-conflict Societies’, DfE Global Challenge Research Fund, £60,000).
 Likewise notable is WLRs Coakley and O’Leary’s contribution—with Garry and others—to grant
 capture (‘Power-Sharing and Voting: Conflict, Accountability and Electoral Behaviour at the NI
 Assembly Election’, ESRC, £500,000; ‘Randomly Selected “Politicians”’, ESRC, £169,065; ‘The
 Post-Brexit UK/Ireland Border’, ESRC Brexit Priority Grant, £223,462).



                                                  11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 d) Political Theory. PT colleagues similarly contributed to the Dept.’s grant successes. Of
 especial note is Barry’s involvement—with colleagues in the Centre for Sustainability, Equality and
 Climate Action and other University and external researchers—in several funded projects (e.g.,
 ‘Roadmaps to Zero Net Emissions in Urban Public Transport’, Engineering & Physical Sciences
 Research Council, £2,335,875; ‘The Place-based Climate Action Network’, ESRC, £400,000;
 ‘Multi-sectoral Approaches to Innovative Skills Training for Renewable Energy and Social
 Acceptance’, EU-Horizon 2020, €4,210,438).

 Politics/IR colleagues’ securing of significant research income has enabled the Dept. to employ
 several PDRAs over the cycle, among them: Murtagh, Mikhael, and Zdeb (with Agarin); Slevin
 and Argyriou (with Barry); Madisson (with Miskimmon); Campbell (with Phinnemore).

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 As explained in the IES (sections 4a.-4c.), the organizational infrastructure to support research
 and grant activity in Politics/IR at Queen’s is extensive, being made up of an interlocking set of
 structures at University, Faculty, and School level.
 Dedicated Faculty-facing staff in the University’s Research & Enterprise Directorate are
 available to help researchers applying for external funding from both UK and International funders
 through all stages of the process. This includes circulating new calls, meeting with individuals to
 help them identify suitable funders, providing costings, and arranging internal feedback on draft
 applications. The Directorate also contains staff with expertise in impact and public engagement,
 including a Faculty-facing Impact Officer, who are available to assist individual researchers in
 composing their proposals, as well as organising events that bring together researchers and
 potential end-users of their research.

 In addition to the internal feedback on grant proposals organised by Research & Enterprise,
 opportunities to obtain feedback on research are available within the Dept. via its four centres,
 as well as the Mitchell Institute. Critical yet supportive commentary at all stages in the development
 of a grant proposal, paper, or monograph—from initial idea to relatively polished draft—is
 facilitated by the Dept.’s various seminar series, ad-hoc meetings, and one-to-one discussions
 depending on what is most appropriate. Early-career researchers and PGRs are fully integrated
 into this process, both in terms of obtaining feedback on their draft papers and proposals and
 having the opportunity to provide feedback on others’ work. In addition, successful grant applicants
 are encouraged to share their applications as examples of good practice.

 As highlighted above (sections 1., 2.), all Dept. staff can avail of a School research budget to
 support their research grant and impact activities. This is in addition to support from Faculty
 and University research funds, such as the ERSC Impact Accelerator Account fund (£2,000)
 awarded the Centre for Gender in Politics in 2020 to develop a Queen’s on Gender theme.

 The Dept. has excellent facilities, being located in a terrace of Victorian houses in the University
 main campus and in short-walking distance of all teaching venues, University offices, and
 amenities. All staff have their own one-person office and up-to-date computing/printing facilities.
 The School provides a staff common room, with kitchen, and is also home to a suite of meeting
 rooms that staff can book for seminars, etc. Additional rooms in the School are occupied by
 postgraduate students (section 2.), post-doctoral fellows, visiting researchers, and emeritus
 professors. Staff and PGR IT equipment is regularly updated—the School’s IT/network system
 being overhauled in 2019-20 to ensure full connectivity—and the School is provided with technical
 support by Queen’s Information Services.

 Situated close to the Dept., the University’s recently built, circa-£40 million McClay Library is
 home to the main Arts/Humanities and Social Sciences collections. Queen’s has built up a superb
 collection of books, manuscripts, and periodicals over the past 160 years. The Library contains an
 extensive collection of Politics/IR books and journals among its approximately 1.2 million volumes
 and 2,000 print and 20,000 e-journal titles. Facilities include IT training rooms, computing/media
 services, a Language Centre, support areas, and a cafe, as well as the University’s Special

                                                  12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Collections, together providing the best features of a traditional library and the latest technology
 in open-access computing. Each School is supported by a Subject Librarian who provides
 guidance on information sources and scholarly communication issues. The School receives an
 annual budget (£54,000) for book purchases/journal subscriptions and has its own Library Liaison
 officer.

 Research in HAPP is made possible by 20 professional support staff (1 per 4 academic staff)
 who deal with the numerous administrative tasks associated with the effective running of a large
 multidisciplinary School. As regards research, 4 professional support staff are responsible for the
 organization and functioning of the Research Committee, all PGR-related matters, and processing
 internal academic staff requests for research support and funding.

 The Dept.’s research centres and the School’s supportive research structure together enable a
 vibrant, research-intensive culture, with numerous events and activities. Worth noting is the
 Dept.’s playing host over the cycle to dozens of visiting speakers from all aspects of the
 discipline who have presented in its Frank Wright Memorial Lectures and Queen’s Annual Politics
 Lecture and its seminar series. Visiting speakers include: David Armitage (Harvard), Jean-Philippe
 Deranty (Macquarie), Diarmaid Ferriter (UCD), Statis Kalyvas (Oxford), Michael Kenny
 (Cambridge), Brigid Laffan (EUI, Florence), Catherine Lu (McGill), Margaret Moore (Queen’s,
 Kingston), Padraig O’Malley (Massachusetts), Baroness O’Neill (Cambridge), Philip Pettit
 (Princeton), Louise Richardson (Oxford), James Robinson (Chicago), Saskia Sassen (Colombia),
 and Jonathan Wolff (UCL).
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Summary
 To further its research strategy, the Dept. prioritizes collaboration with academic and non-
 academic partners and its contribution to the discipline and society more broadly through pursuing
 five objectives:
  staff immersion in national and international academic partnerships and collaborative
      research networks so as to enrich the Dept.’s research culture, as well as PGR recruitment;
  encouraging high-profile service within leading professional associations;
  extensive staff engagement with non-academic stakeholders—governments, parliaments,
      public bodies, NGOs, community advocacy groups—on issues of local, national, and
      international priority, including Brexit and the Irish border;
  organization of international conferences/events and leadership of top-quality journals;
  securing recognition for excellence in research, impact, and professional service.

 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
 The Dept. places significant weight on research partnerships, seeing them as core to its success.
 It therefore has formal academic partnerships with several universities. Through the AHRC
 Northern Bridge and the ESRC NINE doctoral programmes it is partnered with the Universities of
 Durham, Newcastle, Northumbria, Sunderland, Teesside, and Ulster. It also has had a joint PhD
 agreement with the University of Orleans. This is alongside staff and student exchange
 partnerships with Vanderbilt University, American University, George Washington University,
 University of Texas (Austin), and Ca Foscari University, Venice (via the Centre for the Study of
 Ethnic Conflict). These partnerships have significantly bolstered PGR recruitment (e.g.,
 Ancinapura progressing from Centre for the Study of Ethnic Conflict intern to funded PGR) and
 subsequent employment, as well research collaborations with NGOs and government bodies
 linked to specific partnerships.

 Politics/IR staff frequently co-author with colleagues from across and outside the UK (see outputs
 list) and are embedded in national and international collaborative relationships and research
 networks. These include: Brexit & Environment network (Gravey); Canberra Centre for
 Deliberative Democracy and Global Governance (Kuyper); Canadian Association for
 Refugee/Forced Migration Studies (Johnson); Center for LGBTQ Studies, CUNY (Hagen); Conflict
 Research Society (Thomson); Democratic Innovations and Legitimacy Group, KU Leuven (Pow);

                                                 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Geary Institute for Public Policy (Coakley, MacCarthaigh); Gendering EU Studies UACES network
 (Deiana); Global Prohibition Regimes Project, Prague (Bourne); Place-Based Climate Action
 Network (Barry); PUC-IRI, Rio (Lisle); Queen’s/University of Chicago academic partnership
 (English); etc.

 Dept. staff are members of the main professional associations, as well as specialist
 associations, including: American Political Science Association (APSA), Association for Social &
 Political Philosophy, British International Studies Association (BISA), Canadian Political Science
 Association (CPSA), European Consortium for Political Research (ECPR), European Group for
 Public Administration (EGPA), European International Studies Association, European Political
 Science Association (EPSA), International Political Science Association (IPSA), International
 Studies Association (ISA), Political Studies Association (PSA), Political Studies Association of
 Ireland (PSAI), University Association for Contemporary European Studies (UACES), etc.

 All Dept. research groups contribute significantly to the running of these organisations.
 Roles occupied include:
  BISA (Deiana: co-convenor, South-East Europe group);
  ECPR (Fabre: co-convenor, Federalism and Regionalism group; Raymond: Religion and
      Politics group);
  IPSA (Agarin: chair of RC14 Politics and Ethnicity Research Committee; Coakley: member of
      several committees);
  ISA (Deiana: Feminist Theory and Gender Studies group; Johnson: member of the Committee
      on the James N. Rosenau Post-Doctoral Fellowship; Lisle: International Political Sociology
      group);
  PSA (Raymond: Religion and Politics, German Politics groups);
  PSAI (Gravey: co-chair of Environmental Politics group; Deiana: co-chair, Gender & Politics
      group; MacCarthaigh: executive committee member, president 2016-19; McLoughlin,
      executive committee member);
  UACES (Agarin: co-chair Romani and Traveller Minorities network; Gravey: executive
      committee member; Phinnemore: executive committee member, 2015-18).

 Colleagues’ extensive commitment to these organizations led to several conferences being
 organized across Europe and beyond over the cycle (UACES Romani Studies conferences in
 Uppsala, Wroclaw, Ankara, Graz; IPSA World Congress panels/colloquia in Brisbane, Nicosia,
 Poznań, Sarajevo; etc.). Dept. staff have also been active in other learned societies/bodies,
 including:
  American Conference for Irish Studies (McLoughlin);
  College of Europe (Phinnemore: UK Selection Committee, Academic Council);
  National Council for Scientific and Technological Development, Brazil (Rossone de Paula);
  Royal Irish Academy (Coakley, MacCarthaigh: Ethical, Political, Legal & Philosophical Studies
      Committee).

 During the cycle period, Dept. staff held visiting positions at Boston College (McLoughlin),
 Canberra (Pow), Chicago (English), China Foreign Affairs University (Lee), College of Europe
 (Phinnemore), EUI, Florence (Coakley), Geary Institute for Public Policy (MacCarthaigh), Graz
 (Agarin), LSE (Hagen), Nelson Mandela University (Andreasson), Renmin (McBride), Stanford
 (English), UFSCar, Brazil (Fabre), St Andrews (English), TCD (Fischer), Tecnológico de
 Monterrey (Raymond), Uppsala (Agarin), and Wissenschaftskolleg zu Berlin (Breen).

 In turn, the Dept. hosted several visiting research fellows, among them Breen (Melbourne),
 Chung (Hong Kong Baptist University), De Wispelaere (Toronto), Fleischer (Bergen), Hirvonen
 (Jyväskylä), John (UCL), Madisson (Tartu), McCulloch (Brandon University), Murtagh (Villanova),
 Ó’Brolcháin (DCU), Osipov (Flensburg), Ribeiro (UFSCar, Brazil), Smith (Macquarie), Tautter
 (Brighton), Vasilevich (Prague), and Wilson (Binghamton University).



                                                14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wider Contributions to Economy and Society beyond Impact Case Studies
 As explained (section 1.), the Dept.’s impact strategy has centred on a) female representation
 within political parties/parliaments, b) deliberative democracy/citizens assemblies in Ireland, and
 c) influencing government policy in Brexit preparations. However, there are other areas in which
 colleagues’ research is having palpable impact. Among them are:
   Design and preparation of public museum exhibitions. McLoughlin acted as consultant in
      2018 to Hillsborough Castle on the history of NI Secretaries of State as part of a £20 million
      refurbishment project. Similarly, Lisle provided expertise on conflict representations for the
      Ulster Museum in the design of its Troubles Exhibit and Gallery, and is currently advisor to
      the Museum of the Troubles and Peace.
   Deliberative democracy/citizen assemblies beyond the Republic of Ireland. Kuyper
      aided the PALO project in a Finnish participatory mini-public that provided information to
      4000+ households in a municipal referendum. More locally, Pow and Garry worked with the
      Building Change Trust and Involve NGOs to organize Northern Ireland’s first citizen assembly.
      This assembly produced a series of 30 recommendations on social care, which were
      subsequently noted positively by the UK House of Commons Northern Ireland Affairs
      Committee.
   Environment and climate change. Colleague’s work in this area is being taken up by various
      end-users. For instance, Barry is a member of the Place-Based Climate Action Network (P-
      CAN) and was appointed onto Climate Assembly UK Academic Panel in 2020, while Gravey’s
      work via the Brexit & Environment network has received a number of awards (below).
   Government reform. Colleagues have been recruited by public organizations to share their
      expertise on this issue. For example, MacCarthaigh gave expert evidence to: the Committee
      of the Irish Parliament on Creation of an Electoral Commission in Ireland (June 2015); the NI
      Department of Finance on shared government services (May 2015); and the OECD as part
      of its ‘Public Governance Review of Northern Ireland’ (February 2015). His extensive public-
      organization work led to his inclusion in the £2 million ESRC-funded International Public Policy
      Observatory initiative in 2020.
   Security and technology. Dept. research on this theme has been utilized by several bodies.
      For example, Bourne, Johnson, and Lisle’s research on risk and uncertainty in security
      technology concluded in the publication of the TRUST Report issued to the MOD/DSTL, Home
      Office Science Advisory Council, and UK Border Force. Bourne also provided confidential
      evidence to the NGO Coalition for EU COARM on risk in arms transfer regulation (May 2016)
      and the Oireachtas Justice and Equality Committee (July 2015). In addition, one further IR
      colleague (Milton-Edwards) has been on secondment (2018-present) as senior security policy
      advisor to the Government of Qatar.

 As to be expected, Dept. staff intensively engaged with governments, parliaments,
 politicians, and diplomats on Brexit, its consequences for Ireland and the UK, and the
 complex policy options that arose. This involved deepening already strong connections with
 Brussels, Dublin, Stormont, and Westminster, as well as advising multiple other institutions. To
 summarize their wide-ranging work, colleagues gave evidence to and held briefings with the British
 Embassy, Dublin (McCall), British-Irish Parliamentary Assembly (Coakley), Chinese Consulate,
 Belfast (Phinnemore), Danish Parliament (Phinnemore), European Parliament Constitutional
 Affairs Committee (Phinnemore), Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Garry, Phinnemore); House
 of Commons committees (several colleagues), House of Lords committees (several colleagues),
 Interparliamentary Forum on Brexit (Gravey, Phinnemore), Irish Department of Foreign Affairs and
 Trade (several collegaues), Northern Ireland Assembly (several colleagues), Scottish Parliament
 (Gravey, Phinnemore), US Consulate, Belfast (Phinnemore), and Welsh Assembly (McGowan,
 selected by the WA as an EU expert).

 Colleagues also shared their Ireland/UK and Brexit expertise with quasi- and non-
 governmental organizations, including: Agenda NI, Agriculture Law Association, Belfast City
 Council Brexit Working Group, British Academy, Brookings Institution (Washington, DC), Chatham
 House, College of Europe, Confederation of British Industry, Consumer Council (NI), DAERA
 Stakeholder Group, Equality Commission (NI), Equality and Human Rights Commission (RoI),

                                                  15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 European Economic and Social Committee, Foraus (Switzerland), Friends of the Earth, Institute
 of International and European Affairs (Dublin), Institute of Directors (NI), NI Civil Service, Police
 Service of NI, NI Council for Voluntary Action, and the Royal Institute for International Affairs
 (Brussels). This extensive engagement has been facilitated by staff directing the Queen’s-based
 Brexit Clinic and Brexit Forum, organizing events through EU Debate NI, and participating in
 Stormont’s Knowledge Exchange Seminar Series.

 Via its centres, the Dept. also offered underrepresented and vulnerable communities
 opportunities to benefit from and contribute to its research. For instance, the Centre for the Study
 of Ethnic Conflict’s ‘Exclusion Amid Inclusion Project’ presented key findings to community
 stakeholders from several post-conflict societies on advancing minority representation. Relatedly,
 colleagues in the Centre for Gender in Politics work closely with community advocacy groups on
 women’s reproductive rights in Northern Ireland and on poverty/equality budgeting campaigning
 in the Republic of Ireland (Fischer).

 Indicators of Wider Influence and Contribution to Research Base
 Dept. staff make a very considerable wider contribution to all aspects of the discipline and
 profession in several ways. One is the hosting of international conferences at Queen’s. Since
 REF2014, colleagues have organized five major conferences:
  EPSA Annual Conference, 2019;
  EGPA Annual Conference, 2019;
  ‘Global Conflict: The Human Impact’ Conference, 2018 (co-organized via the Mitchell Institute
     with the University of Chicago);
  ‘GFA at 20’ Conference, 2018 (organized via the Mitchell Institute, speakers including Bill
     Clinton, Tony Blair, George Mitchell, Bertie Ahern, David Trimble, Gerry Adams);
  PSAI Annual Conference, 2016.
 In 2019, the Dept. was also selected to organize the 2021 PSA Annual Conference. This is
 alongside numerous smaller conferences and events organized within Queen’s, as well as the
 seminar series run by the Dept.’s four groups and centres (sections 1., 2.).

 Unfortunately, the COVID-19 crisis necessitated two major conferences being postponed:
  UACES Annual Conference, initially 2020, now 2023;
  Conflict Research Society Annual Conference, initially 2020, now 2021.

 Politics/IR staff have delivered scores of invited lectures in a wide range of universities and
 organizations. These include:
  UK and Ireland: All-Island Civic Forum (Dublin), Birmingham, Bristol, Cambridge, Durham,
      Edinburgh, Kent, Leeds, Newcastle, Oxford, Queen Margaret, Royal Irish Academy, Royal
      Society, Sandhurst, SOAS, St Andrews, Strathclyde, Surrey, UCC, UCD, York;
  Europe: Aarhus, Amsterdam, Antwerp, Barcelona, Bolzano, Diplomatic Academy (Vienna),
      EUI (Florence), German Foreign Ministry, Heinrich-Böll-Stiftung, Helsinki, Maison de l’Europe,
      Luxembourg, Minho, OECD (Paris), Oslo, Poznań, Toulouse, UN CEDAW (Geneva), Zurich;
  Americas: Boston College, Chicago, Columbia (NY), Georgetown, George Washington,
      Montreal, Ottawa, Pennsylvania, Princeton, PUC Rio, Stanford, Tufts University, UC Santa
      Barbara, UFSCar (Brazil), UABJO (Mexico), Universidad de Cordoba (Colombia), Yale;
   Africa, Asia, and Australasia: Brisbane, British Council (Ankara), Canterbury Christchurch
      (NZ), China Foreign Affairs University (Beijing), East London (SA), Melbourne, Otago (NZ),
      Pusan (SK), Queensland, Stellenbosch (SA), Victoria (Australia).

 All Dept. staff referee articles and book proposals for several leading journals and publishers. In
 addition, they referee grant proposals, and are members of peer review colleges, for a range
 of funders, including the AHRC (Lisle, McGowan), British Academy (several colleagues), ESRC
 (several colleagues), Estonian Research Council (MacCarthaigh), European Council (Johnson),
 Flemish Research Council (Breen, Fabre), Flemish/South Africa Research Programme
 (Andreasson), Irish Research Council (several colleagues), National Research Foundation South

                                                  16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Africa (Andreasson), National University of Ireland (Bourne), and Social Sciences/Humanities
 Research Council of Canada (Bourne, Johnson).

 The Dept. continues to make major contributions to the publication of world-leading peer-
 reviewed journals. Noteworthy are:
  Lisle’s editorship of International Political Sociology;
  McLoughlin’s co-editorship of Irish Political Studies;
  Andreasson, Breen, and Fabre’s associate co-editorship, until 2015, of the British Journal of
     Politics and International Relations.

 Colleagues have also been editors of Administration (MacCarthaigh), Citizenship Studies
 (Johnson), Hypatia (Fischer), International Feminist Journal of Politics (Hagen), Nationalism and
 Ethnic Politics (Agarin, Coakley), Political Research Exchange (Raymond), Regional and Federal
 Studies (Fabre), and Terrorism and Political Violence (English). This is in addition to staff
 editorship of monograph series, including the Routledge Rethinking Political and International
 Theory (Breen, McManus) and Emerald Critical Perspectives on International Public Sector
 Management (MacCarthaigh) series.

 In recognition of their excellence, several Dept. staff received prestigious awards and prizes over
 the cycle period. Among them are:

 Recognition of service and distinction:
  Coakley: made life member of IPSA (as former Secretary General); elected member, Royal
    Irish Academy;
  English: Royal Irish Academy Gold Medal in the Social Sciences; CBE for services to the
    understanding of modern-day terrorism; honorary professorship, St Andrews; elected Fellow
    of the Royal Society of Edinburgh;
  Lisle: International Political Sociology, ISA, Distinguished Scholar Award, 2020;
  Phinnemore: elected fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences.

 Recognition of outstanding research and impact:
  English: Does Terrorism Work? A History (OUP) long-listed for the Airey Neave Book Prize,
    2017;
  Gravey: 2018 UEA Outstanding Impact in Policy and Practice award (with UEA colleagues);
    2017 ENDS Insight of the Year award; 2016 ECPR Rudolf Wildenmann Prize for best paper;
  Johnson: Borders, Asylum and Global Non-Citizenship (CUP) honourable mention in 2016
    Distinguished Book Award, Ethnicity, Nationalism & Migration Studies, ISA; short-listed for
    2015 CPSA Prize in International Relations;
  Lisle: Holidays in the Danger Zone (University of Minnesota Press) International Political
    Sociology, ISA, Best Book Award, 2017;
  Miskimmon: co-authored book Strategic Narratives: Communication Power and the New
    World Order (Routledge) International Communication, ISA, best book award, 2016;
  O’Leary: Northern Ireland: A Treatise (OUP) James S. Donnelly prize, American Conference
    for Irish Studies, 2020; Irish Times Book of the Year, 2019.

 Conclusion
 The above evidences the vitality of Politics/IR in Queen’s. The Dept.’s activities have reconfirmed
 its place as the strongest institutional centre for the discipline in Ireland and one amongst the best
 in the UK. The Dept. has augmented the excellence of its research and impact, while making real
 advances in research income capture. Just as important has been the safeguarding of a supportive
 workplace pivotal to the cultivation of a growing cohort of early-career staff and PGRs. The Dept.
 has also sought to enhance its reputation across the discipline internationally via various
 collaborations and networks. The research strategy it pursued has ensured its dynamism over the
 cycle and will sustain it over the coming period.


                                                  17
