Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Huddersfield

 Unit of Assessment: UoA24 Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 The discipline of Sport and Exercise Science at the University of Huddersfield is driven by an
 ambitious programme of research, with a desire and commitment to create knowledge that has a
 positive impact on health and athletic performance. Our Mission is to foster a spirit of (co)enquiry
 and partnership for innovation and change, making a difference in organisations, services and
 communities, locally, nationally and internationally. We are highly collaborative, working closely
 with colleagues from around the world in order to address important real-world problems.

 The Unit comprises staff from the Division of Sport, Exercise and Nutrition Sciences which sits
 within the Department of Allied Health Professions and Sport and Exercise, as part of the School
 of Human and Health Sciences (referred to as ‘School’ throughout). This is our first independent
 submission to the REF and no staff submitted have been part of previous research assessment
 exercises. Research within the University/School is organised around Institutes and Centres of
 Research and staff within this Unit are part of the Centre for Applied Research in Health (CARH)
 and in particular, within the theme Physical Activity for Performance and Health Promotion.
 The emphasis of the Centre is on applied research which positively impacts health outcomes as
 well as the quality, effectiveness and efficiency of services. The Centre has strong links with NHS-
 funded service providers and community organisations, with emphasis on collaborative research
 that is pertinent to current needs and priorities in health research, such as the ageing population,
 and the prevalence of obesity and type II diabetes. Whilst CARH is an established University
 Centre, there is also a Sport, Exercise and Nutrition Sciences Special Interest Research
 Group (established in 2017). This group is multidisciplinary in nature and staff within the group
 are predominately interested in factors relating to performance for athletes and promoting physical
 activity for health promotion and wellbeing.

 Our aim is to produce research of the highest quality with an emphasis on the application of
 theoretical perspectives to the real world, the use of innovative methodologies, the critical
 examination of policy and practice, effective knowledge transfer, public engagement, and
 professional development. We therefore place emphasis on working collaboratively with research
 stakeholders including service users and professionals to tackle real-world problems. Our focus is
 on applied research working with end users, as highlighted by ~45% of our outputs (overall, not
 just submitted to this exercise) having non-academic co-authors. In Sport and Exercise Science,
 our staff are looking to find ways to bridging the gap between research and practice, as exemplified
 by Naughton working as a consultant in high performance sport; Harper publishing an invited
 commentary on using qualitative methodologies to assess and address practitioner-led research
 questions (Harper & McCunn (2017); doi.org/10.1123/ijspp.2017-0081) and from a Physical
 Activity and Health perspective, Lewis and Azevedo being part of a number of networks and
 initiatives that work closely with external organisations nationally and internationally, and
 communities and the publics to improve health.

 Research Strategy
 The University Research Strategy sits immediately beneath the overarching institutional Strategy
 Map and has a primary vision of excellent research with impact, contributing to important advances
 in human knowledge and significant improvements to the global quality of life. At the unit level,


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 since 2014, there has been an expansion of research interests due to increases in staff numbers
 (see Section 2), identifying and aligning with contemporary research questions, external drivers
 from policy and practice, and the University requiring all academic staff to enrol on doctoral study
 programs. In particular, there has been growth in research on team sport performance, physiology,
 and nutrition, led predominately by Harper, Naughton, and Haines. Research associated with
 this unit is committed to focusing on two key themes: Physical Activity and Health, and Sport
 Performance.

 Physical Activity and Health: Led by Lewis, this theme focuses on improving the health of the
 general population and those living with from clinical conditions through the use of physical activity
 and exercise interventions. Research in this theme includes investigating time-efficient exercise
 interventions (Haines), physical activity for breast cancer survivors (Kipling), the impact of
 exercise training interventions on endothelial and angiogenic cell function (Harris), novel exercise
 interventions for older adults (e.g., walking football; Harper and Naughton), environmental
 nudges to increase activity levels (Lewis and Eccles), the development and evaluation of
 interventions to promote physical activity in children and young people (Azevedo and Horner),
 and the mental health of elite athletes (Lewis). The developing PGR environment within this theme
 comprises three PGR students (two PhD and one MRes), with research on exercise for females
 with polycystic ovary syndrome and increasing physical literacy in children.

 Sports Performance: Led by Harper and Naughton, this theme focuses on research that is applied
 in nature, addressing key issues in sport. There has been particular attention paid to establishing
 meaningful relationships with local sports clubs. This has included Memoranda of Understanding
 with Huddersfield Town Association Football Club and Wakefield Hockey Club. The established
 and vibrant PGR environment within this theme comprises eight PGR students (five PhD and three
 MRes) with research in football (soccer and American Football), field hockey and tennis
 environments, elite level taekwondo, and recovery from exercise in females. Staff within this theme
 have published research from collaborative projects with professional sports teams, predominately
 in the areas of physiology, nutrition and biomechanics.

 The School support the development and career progression of existing staff (early- and mid-
 career researchers and emerging and established research leaders) through research training,
 mentoring and coaching to support research career progression and by actively developing
 opportunities for staff to gain first-hand experience in research (see Section 2 for further details).
 Research training is delivered both locally and centrally; there is a clear interface to ensure
 coordination, consistency and quality. All staff with a significant responsibility for research are
 allocated time for research within the Workload Allocation Model according to their individual
 potential contribution to the research function.

 Research Impact
 Through our research and partnerships, we have been able to achieve significant impact. In
 particular, Lewis’s work has led to a number of policy and practice changes within the Rugby
 Football League SuperLeague to welfare provision. As a result, all SuperLeague clubs are now
 recommended to have a fulltime Player Welfare Manager (PWM). The PWMs are better trained
 and supported in their own welfare and are able to more fully support the welfare needs of the
 players. Furthermore, Harper and Naughton have conducted research with English Premier
 League academy players that has contributed to changes in the day-to-day practices and
 wellbeing provision at English Premier League academies. The Unit’s two submitted impact case
 studies (Improving Welfare Support for Professional Rugby League Players and
 Monitoring Wellness and Mental Fatigue in Soccer: Implications for Recovery Practices and

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Psychological Support) align with our commitment to conducting research in team sports and
 working with end users to create meaningful and impactful research. We strive to conduct all our
 research in this manner and encourage staff to do so. All staff are required to write strategies for
 achieving impact when applying for internal funding. Our aim is that all research in our two key
 themes will continue to have impact; increasing physical activity, improving health, and enhancing
 sports performance. The Unit’s impact strategy is informed by the School strategy. Key tenets of
 the strategy include:

       Engaging public stakeholders and ensuring our research translates to research users and
        beneficiaries
       Building meaningful and mutually-beneficial research partnerships
       The co-design of research with end users from the start and working closely with the
        School’s Public Participation Group
       Actively recruiting staff who are known for generating impact beyond academia
       Supporting staff to engage in activities that facilitate the positive impact of research

 Research Futures

 Physical Activity and Health: Within this theme staff will continue to focus on key research priorities
 in health. This will include the continuation of research into exercise interventions for older adults,
 such as walking football and netball (Harper, Naughton and Lewis). Furthermore, the use of food
 and nutrition to improve health outcomes in older adults will also be researched (Harper,
 Naughton and Pufal). Haines will continue to identify clinically useful exercise interventions for
 individuals who are living with or may be at risk of developing type II diabetes. Lewis and Kipling
 will continue to work in the area of physical activity for cancer survivors and Azevedo and Horner
 will continue their work on the development of interventions that promote physical activity and
 reduce sedentary behaviour in children and young people.

 Sports Performance: Within this theme, staff will continue to focus on answering applied questions,
 working directly with practitioners to address the emerging key areas in sports performance. In
 particular, we plan to work closely with female athletes. Ongoing research projects include
 assessing the nutritional knowledge of professional and semi-professional female football players
 and eating behaviour. We plan to focus on a) improving acute performance; b) accelerating
 recovery; and c) enhancing athlete health. We aim to set-up collaborative PGR studentship
 models, which have proved successful elsewhere, to allow collaborative, meaningful and impactful
 research to be conducted in applied settings. We are aiming for international recognition for our
 work within team sports, particularly soccer.

 Through collaborative development, our strategic aims as a Unit for 2021-2026 are:

    1) Further increase and sustain overall research activity, particularly of an interdisciplinary
       nature. We will do this by continuing to support and retain current staff (particularly those
       who are still finishing their doctorates), continue to invest in equipment, facilities and new
       staff, and capture external grant income to ensure our research activity is sustainable.
    2) All staff to have doctorates. Currently there are three members of staff working towards
       this, with all other staff (12) already holding a doctorate.
    3) Grow our postgraduate research environment. We will continue to recruit and mentor
       exceptional undergraduate students who are able to transition to PGR study, including
       taking advantage of fee waivers and competitive scholarships offered by the University and


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       the School. We will also aim to set-up a structured programme of collaborative MRes and
       PhD studentships with external organisations to attract the highest quality PGR students.
       We will also aim to have all academic members of staff as part of at least one PhD
       supervisory team.
    4) Co-produce research in key public priorities such as an ageing society, childhood
       obesity, and prevention/treatment of clinical conditions with research end users and other
       stakeholders. Support for external grant bids (e.g., NIHR) is available from the wider
       School of Human and Health Sciences staff who have experience and success, and
       established collaborations with a number of other research-intensive Universities (e.g.,
       University of Sheffield).
    5) Work towards transitioning from a Sport, Exercise and Nutrition Sciences Research Group
       to a Research Centre. We will do this by increasing the number of quality outputs,
       developing the burgeoning postgraduate researcher environment, capturing funding from
       external bodies, and continuing to set-up links with established academic institutions in the
       Sport and Exercise Sciences.
    6) As part of the wider School and University commitment as a ‘Civic’ School and University,
       we will continue to consolidate and establish new local and regional partnerships, both in
       physical activity and health, and sports performance, to ensure our excellent research has
       a positive, translational impact on our local community. We will also actively seek out
       opportunities to collaborate with international partners.

 Research Culture

 Research Integrity

 The unit and the University as a whole strongly advocate a culture of research integrity, aligning
 with the Universities UK Concordat for Research Integrity. Furthermore, staff within the Unit
 (Harper, Naughton and Haines) are active members on the School Research Ethics and Integrity
 Committee and thus contribute to the development of appropriate ethical procedures across the
 School and the Unit. As a Unit, we ensure that all research conducted meets all ethical and legal
 guidelines and adheres to GDPR.

 Open Research

 Staff in the Unit follow the University of Huddersfield Open Access (OA) Policy and School
 guidance, which supports both Green and Gold routes to achieving OA compliance and ensures
 maximum reach of research outputs. The University has invested in systems to facilitate Open
 Research including the Elsevier PURE management information system and a University Data
 Repository and content management system (Box). Further support is provided by an Open
 Access Manager and Research Data Management Officer whose roles are to assist in the delivery
 of mandatory central training for staff and students, support the wider open research strategy and
 assist academic staff in making data open and accessible.

 Staff in the Unit have been encouraged to use the Open Science Framework (OSF) and
 International prospective register of systematic reviews the international prospective register of
 systematic reviews (PROSPERO) to pre-register studies/systematic reviews and meta-analyses,
 as well as use OSF to publicly share associated files such as data used for a meta-analysis and
 excluded studies. Furthermore, they are encouraged to use OSF as a data repository for the open
 sharing of research data (within the boundaries of GDPR and participant anonymity). The Unit
 supports the idea of ‘Registered Reports’, with studies undergoing an initial peer review prior to

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 data collection to ensure that research and the subsequent data collected is conducted and
 analysed in a predetermined manner, therefore preventing hypothesis switching or selective
 reporting. As more journals in Sport and Exercise Science encourage this practice, staff will
 engage with this process.
 2. People

 At the time of writing, our Unit comprises seven Category A staff with submitted outputs (four
 female, all full-time), including an Acting Head of Department (Allied Health and Sport and
 Exercise), a Head of Division (Sport, Exercise and Nutrition Sciences), a Research Fellow, a
 Reader, and three Senior Lecturers. Three members of staff are Early Career Researchers
 (ECRs), with post-PhD duration of 3.5 ± 1.0 (2-4) years. However, it should be noted that whilst
 they fit the definition of an ECR, none of the three declared ECR status. We also have a further
 eight staff within the Unit who were not eligible for submission based on the Code of Practice (four
 female, five full-time), including three members of staff undertaking PhDs. All staff are under the
 age of 55, with 43% in the 25-44 category, demonstrating sustainability in progressing the research
 culture and environment.

 Recruitment, retention and staff development
 Within the Division there have been seven academic staff appointments since 2014 (with one
 retirement). Since 2016 in particular, this investment in academic posts has focused on employing
 promising ECRs who have just completed PhDs or are close to doing so. These appointments
 comprise: a Senior Lecturer in Sport Psychology (Ellis), three Lecturers in Sport and Exercise
 Physiology/Nutrition (Fish, Harper, Naughton), a Lecturer in Sport Biomechanics (Hudson), and
 a Senior Lecturer in Exercise Science (Eccles). Furthermore, a Reader was employed in January
 2020 (Azevedo) to bolster the Physical Activity and Health theme. Their research focuses on the
 development and evaluation of interventions to promote physical activity and reduce sedentary
 behaviour, as well as conducting systematic reviews (including Cochrane reviews). Within the
 same timeframe Lewis has been promoted to Acting Head of Department for Allied Health and
 Sport and Exercise and Haines has been promoted to Head of Division. Furthermore, Fish,
 Harper, Hudson and Naughton have been promoted from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer,
 demonstrating that the strategy of employing promising and exceptional academics in order to
 sustain areas of strength is working. This strategy of employing promising ECRs and developing
 the research skills of present staff through the completion of a PhD has fostered a collegiate
 environment whereby staff feel a personal investment about the development of research within
 the Division and that their research does make a difference not only outside academia, but to the
 Division and the University.

 The University has an open and transparent internal promotion procedure, with relevant guidance
 and documentation available on the Human Resources website. There is an annual call for
 applications for Principal Research Fellow, Reader and Professor. For newly-appointed staff (and
 for staff who have recently completed a Doctorate) the School offers a structured induction
 programme and aspires to: one year of minimal teaching, tailored active research mentoring, the
 possibility of a start-up financial package for consumables, and priority over PhD scholarship
 student co-supervision. The School actively encourages the inclusion of post-doctoral positions
 and PGR studentships in larger grant applications.

 Since 2014 there has been a University-wide mandate for staff to hold doctorates. Prior to 2014
 there were no members of staff with doctorates within the Division, there are now twelve. It is
 hoped that by January 2023, 100% of staff in the Division will hold doctorates. A number of staff
 have completed, or are completing, their doctorates part-time alongside full-time teaching

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 commitments. Support is in place for staff to become research independent following completion
 of a doctorate. Staff are provided with internal funding for their research, as well as a minimum of
 one protected day a week. Furthermore, staff have been allowed to take semester-long
 sabbaticals to focus on writing their PhD thesis. These processes have allowed staff members to
 conduct research on exercise interventions for breast cancer survivors (Kipling), ankle muscle
 strength (Fish), reduced-exertion high-intensity interval training (Haines), physical activity
 interventions for young people in a pupil referral unit (Horner), the application of biofeedback in
 sport (Ellis), and engaging children and young people in physical activity (Lewis). A member of
 the Division’s technical team is also completing their doctorate part-time and supporting staff with
 their research. With so many staff now beginning their post-doctoral journey, there is real vitality
 within the Division and the future is bright for research.

 Early Career Researchers within the Division are part of PhD students’ supervisory teams (in some
 cases, principal supervisor alongside an experienced co-supervisor from within the School). The
 School conducts regular mandatory training for new supervisors, as well as three-yearly refresher
 sessions. This enhances ECR’s skills and future-proofs the Division’s ability to support and grow
 PGR student numbers. Staff members who are ECRs are also involved in important School-wide
 panels and committees, including the REF Management Committee and School Research and
 Enterprise Committee, as well as leading the UoA’s Research Group. This allows ECRs to acquire
 invaluable experience and expertise to increase the sustainability of the research environment.

 The University adheres to the principles of the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development
 of Researchers and is committed, as recognised by the European Commission’s HR Excellence
 in Research Award, to the implementation of the European Charter for Researchers and Code of
 Conduct for the Recruitment of Researchers. Tailored active research mentoring is available to all
 staff (through the Research Mentoring scheme) and through customised support with specific
 research activity. All staff, in particular early- and mid-career researchers, are able to access
 postgraduate research training courses and relevant Masters modules. Sabbatical or study leave
 is considered on a case-by-case basis in line with University Policy. Staff are encouraged to engage
 with industry partners, as consultants, or to facilitate knowledge exchange.

 The Personal Development and Performance Review process promotes, supports and celebrates
 excellence in research with an emphasis on researcher development and the establishment and
 monitoring of ambitious but achievable performance targets around key research functions such
 as publishing. The School offers extensive provision of support for writing for publication, such as
 ‘Shut Up and Write’ sessions, facilitated ‘Writing Retreats’, writing skills training at different levels
 (‘Getting Off the Blocks’ and ‘Moving from 2* to 3*) and a structured group coaching programme
 (‘Write Your Paper in 12 Weeks’). These initiatives have contributed to the very significant increase
 in the volume and quality of research outputs from the UoA in the current REF period.

 Research Students
 We maintain an active pipeline of excellence from our undergraduate programmes, through our
 postgraduate taught programmes, to PGR and subsequent academic posts. Pre-conditions to
 acceptance onto our PGR programmes are a first degree (at least upper second-class honours)
 and a good relevant master’s degree (or equivalent), though exceptional candidates who
 performed highly in their first degree may be considered without a master’s degree. We interview
 all prospective PGR students and give consideration to their qualifications and previous research
 experience, the feasibility of their planned project, and their commitment to postgraduate study
 and research. All project proposals undergo review for significance, rigour, feasibility and fit. Each
 year the School offer highly competitive fee waivers and scholarships for exceptional candidates.

                                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Two PhD students within the Division were awarded fee waivers during the current REF period.
 The recruitment of three PGR students has also come from self-funders, under the supervision of
 Harper, Naughton and Haines, demonstrating our appeal as a Unit with a strong research culture,
 especially as one student is also a full-time lecturer at another UK University and one is the
 Director of Sports Nutrition at the University of North Texas. All staff in the Unit are able to advertise
 self-funded PhD and MRes opportunities on their institutional webpages to attract potential self-
 funded students. Since 2014, we have had four PGR graduates (non-staff members, two MRes
 and two PhD).

 The School offers a personalised research training programme to each PGR student via their
 supervisory team and a coordinated programme of research training which is delivered within the
 School (discipline-specific training to support the programme) and at University level (generic
 transferable skills training, to support independence and employability e.g., knowledge exchange,
 impact and citizen engagement). In common with training for staff, each element of the PGR
 training is mapped to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework to ensure coverage and to
 avoid duplication. The School PGR training has recently been revised to offer a wider portfolio of
 sessions, catering for both novice researchers and those seeking more advanced training in a
 range of research designs and methods of quantitative and qualitative data collection and analysis.
 Furthermore, training in research ethics and integrity is compulsory. There is a fortnightly
 workshop organised by PGRs where staff (internal and external) offer support for various aspects
 of development, including writing, presenting, research impact, and transitioning in to post-doctoral
 research/work. We encourage our PhD students to value teaching as well as research, and
 opportunities are provided for PhD students to contribute to teaching provision, particularly
 seminar and practical sessions, as well as team-teaching with academic staff. Furthermore, they
 are encouraged to act as co-supervisor to final year dissertation students to gain experience in
 supervising research projects.

 Participation at national and international conferences is encouraged and supported through the
 PGR student support fund, which provides additional financial support for project, travel and other
 costs. Students are eligible for £550 for an international conference during their studies, and £350
 for a national conference. They are also provided with up to £150 per year for additional networking
 and up to £200 a year for research consumables. PGR students are also encouraged to take part
 in the national Three Minute Thesis competition. Student progress is monitored through monthly
 supervisory meetings (for full-time students; two-monthly for part-time), with a short report required
 through an online portal (SkillsForge) where students and supervisors can make comments,
 identify areas of strength and improvement, and formalise future plans. This is mandatory and
 students and supervisor(s) have to sign off the final iteration. Annual student progression reviews
 (or biennial for part-time students) are carried out by academic staff, independently of the
 supervision team and the University has recently introduced an additional end of year report by
 supervisor and student for part-time students during years 3 and 5 when a full progress review is
 not required. PGR student progress is monitored via School Postgraduate Progressions Boards
 (which meet three times a year) which highlight any anomalies to the School Director of Graduate
 Education and the relevant Deputy Director with pastoral responsibilities for Sport and Exercise.
 The world class support and training that PGR students receive is reflected by PRES (2019/20)
 data that indicates an overall satisfaction of PGRs within the School of 82.8%, above the national
 average of 80%.

 Since 2016, PGR students within the Unit have been encouraged where possible to write their
 data for publication as they go through their studies. This was not previously the case, with the
 production of the thesis itself the only focus. This change in culture has led to PGRs publishing

                                                                                                    Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 their research early on in their studies, going through the process of peer review and addressing
 critical feedback from external reviewers. This method is also beneficial for staff and supervisors
 as they are co-authors on the articles.

 All PGR students (and staff) have access to the School and University’s excellent pastoral and
 wellbeing support systems. Each research student also has a named personal tutor and due to
 the broad range of methodological expertise across the School, our PGR students are able to
 consult directly with staff who hold identified research expertise. Due to the coronavirus pandemic
 and the lockdowns and University closures that have ensued, PGR students have received remote
 support from academic, technical and administrative staff. This has included using video
 conferencing for meetings and for research training, workshops and seminars.

 As a Unit we aim to integrate and absorb research students fully in our research culture. They are
 members of our Research Group and are invited to all meetings (and encouraged to present their
 work when appropriate). This provides a safe environment where students can receive feedback
 and engage with fellow students and staff members. They are also responsible for the
 administration of the Sport, Exercise and Nutrition Seminar Series (SENSS), that received internal
 funding (£2000). Their role involves identifying external speakers, contacting staff and other PGR
 students from other Universities to invite them to the talks, and overall co-ordination of the
 speaker’s travel, accommodation and day of the talk. This provides an excellent opportunity for
 PGR students to develop their communication and networking skills and enhance their external
 research contacts, forming current and future collaborations in the process. The School ensures
 meaningful pathways to consultation with PGR students, with PGR student representation both
 on the School Research and Enterprise Committee and PGR committee, and at University level
 via Graduate Board and Graduate Council. The School hosts a PGR-led conference called
 “Engage”, and the University hosts a very successful annual postgraduate research conference,
 with all PGR students encouraged to present their work. At the 2019 conference, PGR students
 from the Unit had a whole session (four presentations) devoted to their research. In 2020, the
 steering committee was co-led by a PGR student from the Division. PGR students are encouraged
 to be involved in staff research projects and this has led to productive collaborations.

 Equality and Diversity
 Through an Equality Impact Assessment, differences between the Unit as a whole and staff
 identified as SRR/IR for gender, nationality, ethnicity, disability, sexual orientation, religion, age
 and marital status were small (all less than 16.5%). Therefore, in the final selection of equivalent
 quality outputs, we were not required to take specific action to ensure diversity (in line with the
 University REF Code of Practice). All staff involved in the Unit’s decision-making for REF2021
 have completed REF-specific Equality and Diversity training. By strictly following the University’s
 Code of Practice, the output selection for this submission was guided by internal and external peer
 review by experts in the discipline; ensuring that less than 5% of outputs were non-OA compliant;
 and that the outputs aligned with the Research Strategy and Futures detailed above.

 All new staff recruits are required to undertake training on diversity and on unconscious bias. The
 School monitors recruitment and promotions data annually by protected characteristics and any
 resulting trends or anomalies are highlighted for action. The School is committed to equality and
 to increasing diversity at all levels, and taking positive action to maximise the chances of recruiting,
 promoting and allocating the best person for any particular role. School staffing policies support
 flexible working, career breaks and part-time working with accommodation of carers’
 responsibilities whenever practicable. Future academic vacancies will be advertised as suitable
 for job share, part-time or flexible working, in order to enable a balance of work and home

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 requirements. The duties of those on parental leave are fully covered (also for some time after
 return, with accommodation of the needs of breastfeeding mothers).

 The School subscribes to, or actively aspires to joining a range of external equality and diversity
 initiatives, either at University level or at School level, in order to guide and sustain best practice:

       The University participates in ‘Every Researcher Counts’ to improve equality and diversity
        for researchers in HE
       The University has an implementation plan that aligns with the Concordat to Support the
        Career Development of Researchers, the European Charter for Researchers and Code of
        Conduct for their Recruitment, UK Quality Code for HE, and the Vitae Researcher
        Development Framework
       The University is recognised as a Disability Confident Employer at Level 2, which covers
        the themes “Getting the right people for your business” and “Keeping and developing your
        people”
       The University has received the organisational Athena Swan Bronze Award and the School
        is working towards a departmental award
       The University is a Stonewall Diversity Champion member
       The University Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Enhancement Committee leads the
        development and implementation of University EDI policies, framework and schemes,
        identifies areas for enhancement through dialogue with the University Research
        Committee and provides a forum for discussion and oversight relating to REF.


 The University’s Black, Asian & Minority Ethnic (BAME) Staff Network represents the views of staff
 working at the University of Huddersfield who self-define as BAME, and supports the School’s
 shared commitment to systemic change. The School has also recently appointed a dedicated
 Director of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion. There is commitment to enabling leadership potential
 and target support particularly at under-represented groups. For example, the University partners
 with AdvanceHE’s Aurora development programme for people who identify as women. Lewis has
 taken part in the Aurora development programme, as well as the Chartered Management Institute
 Level 7 award in strategic management and leadership (CMgr). This is part of a wider University
 initiative for University managers to become CMgr. This has provided the Department and the
 UoA with best practice leadership and management behaviour thereby ensuring that staff have
 the necessary knowledge and the skills to manage research effectively.

 Research investment
 The School returns a proportion of research overheads back to the Research Centre for fair and
 transparent re-investment through an agreed unified approach to distribution. Competitive funding
 (up to £5000 per project) is available to all academic staff within the School for staff development
 and strategic research investment (and post-doctoral researchers). This includes an annual round
 of competitive seed funding (which was supplemented by a COVID-19 rapid response fund in
 2020), with positive action to encourage applications from early- and mid-career researchers. Staff
 within the Unit (Harper, Lewis, Naughton, Horner and Haines) have been successful in obtaining
 this competitive funding, which has led to research and publications on walking football, extra-time
 in football, and the Special Olympics World Games. The University also provides additional
 support for internationalisation of research. Harper was successful in obtaining this funding for a
 research trip to Australia in February and March 2019, and Azevedo was awarded £3400 for a
 project related to physical activity during the COVID-19 pandemic. Lewis has been successful in


                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 gaining University ‘Collaborative Venture Funding’ to further collaborative work with the local
 council.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 This is a newly established research grouping, which contains predominately ECRs, many of
 whom only obtained their doctorates after 2016. Therefore, it has only been since 2017 that the
 majority of staff have actively started to bid for external funding. Staff have applied for funding
 from organisations such as National Institute for Health Research (NIHR; Lewis and Azevedo),
 Nuffield Foundation (Azevedo), Sport England (Lewis, Harper, Naughton), UEFA (Harper), FIFA
 (Harper), British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (BASES; Haines and Harper), The
 Borrow Foundation (Azevedo), Research England – Strategic Priorities Fund (Azevedo and
 Horner), Comic Relief (Lewis and Horner), Physiological Society (Harper), HTA (Lewis),
 Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Harper, Haines, Hudson and Naughton). The
 latter bid was in collaboration with colleagues from the Division of Psychology in the School.

 Strategies for generating future income
 Acknowledging the size of the unit and the research career stages of staff members there will be
 a staged approach to bidding activity, with staff applying for smaller grants such as those provided
 annually by charities (e.g., British Lung Foundation, Age UK, Diabetes UK etc.), UEFA, FIFA, and
 the Physiological Society, whilst collaborating with experienced members of staff within the School
 (and other more prestigious institutions) for bids to the NIHR Research for Patient Benefit Scheme
 for physical activity and health projects. Lewis and Azevedo have both been successful co-
 investigators on grant bids to NIHR and we will continue to apply for larger grants to support our
 research in physical activity and public health. Through staff connections and collaborations with
 professional sport teams (see Section 4), there is a drive to set-up collaborative postgraduate
 studentship models. We plan to conduct funded research with nutrition companies, particularly
 related to enhancing performance and recovery in team sport athletes. Staff within the Unit are
 also cognisant of Government ‘Grand Challenges’, particularly the ‘Ageing Society’ challenge.
 Indeed, Harper and Naughton were awarded £8000 at an internal sandpit event to conduct
 research on the efficacy of pomegranate juice for cognitive function with older adults, in
 collaboration with colleagues from the School of Applied Sciences. Therefore, funding from the
 British Society for Research on Ageing, MRC and BBSRC (food, nutrition and health is a key
 priority) will be applied for. Furthermore, businesses, locally and nationally will be approached to
 set-up Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP). There is a KTP manager within the University
 Research and Enterprise team, and a Business Development Manager within the School who
 assists in the identification of bidding opportunities.

 Infrastructure, Facilities and Equipment
 We have a strong social infrastructure within the Unit. This allows for the development of
 interpersonal relationships between staff and students, both postgraduate and undergraduate
 alike. Whilst the COVID-19 pandemic has meant our social meetings have been confined to video
 conferencing, prior to this we ensured that our regular journal club meetings and seminar series
 events included the opportunity for informal conversation both before and after the meeting, with
 food and refreshments available. This facilitated unscheduled discussions both among colleagues
 and any external guests that were present. As a Unit we value these moments as opportunities
 for the seeds of research ideas to be planted.

 The Division has three laboratories for teaching and research (Physiology/Human Performance
 (2) and Biomechanics). Furthermore, there is access to the University’s Sports Centre Sports Hall


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Studios. Since 2014 there has been capital investment of approximately £325,000 for
 equipment for research within the Unit. The laboratories are serviced and supported by two full-
 time technicians, one of whom is also a PGR student within the Division. PGR students are
 provided with dedicated shared office space with workstations, storage for personal belongings,
 quiet areas, an interview/meeting room with data projection facilities, two rooms for private study,
 a kitchen area and an adjacent relaxation room. PGR students also have access to free printing.
 Viva voce examinations are conducted whenever possible in the familiar School research meeting
 room. The School provides dedicated administrative support for the PGR function in addition to
 any central support from the Graduate School.

 Physiology/Human Performance Laboratories

 The Physiology and Human Performance Laboratories are equipped with two treadmills (including
 a h/p/cosmos with Airwalk for unweighting and balance training). This was purchased in 2016
 (£30,215). This purchase helped forge a relationship with Huddersfield Town AFC first team, for
 use for physiological testing of their players across a season. This has provided a small income
 to support research consumable purchases. The laboratories also contain 10 Monark ergometers,
 two Concept2 Model D Rowing Machines, and a Velotron system. The Velotron was purchased in
 2017 (£8920). The laboratories contain two Cortex Metamax 3B systems for respiratory gas
 exchange measurements, both within and out with the laboratory. Both systems have been
 purchased since 2014 (£54,642). Within the laboratories there are 12 desktop PC’s all with Dartfish
 TeamPro Software (all purchased in 2017; £32,346), as well as a Biosen C Line Glucose and
 Lactate Analyser, two portable OptoJump systems and a FixxXL NeXus-10 bio and neurofeedback
 system, all purchased in 2017 and 2018; £24,048).

 Biomechanics Laboratory

 The Biomechanics Laboratory is equipped with a Simi Reality Motion Systems 8 camera system
 for kinematic and kinetic analysis of movement (purchased 2018; £51,372), a force plate (Kistler),
 and a portable EMG system (Delsys Trigno Avanti Research+. purchased 2018; £14,208). There
 is also a Biodex isokinetic dynamometer which has been used by Fish and Haines for research
 and testing with professional sports teams. The recent investment in the Biomechanics Laboratory
 has coincided with the appointment of a new Lecturer (now Senior Lecturer) in Sports
 Biomechanics (Hudson).

 Through capital investment awarded in late 2020, the following equipment will be purchased in
 early 2021: Sportscode Performance Analysis software and necessary Apple hardware, another
 h/p treadmill, IMeasureU Step lower limb monitoring sensors, Kistler force plate, Lode ergometer,
 a SIMI Motion capture system, and a new research-only gas analysis system. All of this equipment
 will further enhance our research capabilities and emphasises the sustainability of our research
 environment. The laboratories will also be moving to another building on the University campus in
 2021 that will increase the amount of space available and allow for the implementation of facilities
 such as a running track and lifting platforms to support strength and conditioning, biomechanics,
 physiology, nutrition and metabolism research.

 The School was recently awarded £45 million of investment from the University for the construction
 of a new building, as well as further investment for facilities that will support research in the Unit.
 This will form part of a new National Health Innovation Campus, which is to be led by the
 University.


                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Structures and Systems
 The School provides systems and processes that support research such as:

       the PURE research management information system and repository
       the Peer Review of Research Applications Management System for the (mandatory)
        internal peer review of research bids
       Microsoft Dynamics for contact management
       Pre-Award/Post-Award (PAPA) and Agresso for financial information
       SkillsForge for keeping contemporaneous notes of PGR supervision meetings, training and
        development opportunities, and an area for students to complete a Research Skills self-
        assessment based on the Researcher Development Framework

 A number of groups and committees help to drive, monitor and coordinate research activity:

       The School Research and Enterprise Committee (SREC) reports into the School
        Management Team (SMT) and the University Research and Enterprise Committee and is
        responsible for interpreting central policies, procedures and guidance into the School and
        for delivering the School research strategy. Lewis and Azevedo are on the committee,
        and there is representation from PGRs.
       The School Research and Ethics and Integrity Committee (SREIC) reports into SREC and
        the University Research Ethics and Integrity Committee and is responsible for delivering
        good research governance across the School. All research activity in the School requires
        consideration by SREIC. Harper, Naughton and Haines are on Panel and so staff within
        the Unit are kept up-to-date with current guidance.
       The Postgraduate Research Committee reports into SREC and is responsible for
        delivering the School PGR function.
       The REF Management Group reports into SREC and is responsible for delivering on the
        School REF agenda. Lewis and Harper are members of the group.
       The School has a defined Impact Strategy and employs Senior Research Fellows who, as
        part of their role, act as Impact Champions, leading Impact-related activities and supporting
        staff with collecting and evidencing impact. Furthermore, the School has two co-Directors
        of External Engagement, and they provide regular updates at Research Group meetings
        on ways to achieve impact.

 Professional services staff within the School play a key role in:

       Bid development and management
             Delivering training and advice on grant writing
             Providing tailored end-to-end bidding support, including personalised support for
               fellowship awards
             Maintaining a library of previous bids and sourcing ‘boilerplate’ information

       Research intelligence
            Disseminating and targeting timely alerts to funding opportunities (e.g. internal and
              external, responsive and speculative, national and international)
            Coordinating the development of strategic large-scale grant applications
            Advising on funding body’s terms and conditions.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 There is significant School and University level support for the Unit’s ECRs who are enhancing
 their research profiles within the Sport and Exercise Science discipline. There are yearly calls for
 capital investment bids for equipment that can be utilised in research, making staff more attractive
 to external funders and collaborators. The money available for conferences allows staff to present
 their research on international platforms. Contemporary research and relevant information are
 shared across the research community via email and monthly Journal Club meetings (which PGR
 students are invited to). Indeed, PGR students are encouraged to present new journal articles
 relevant to their research to the rest of the Unit with critical insight. With continued investment
 there will be increased vitality and sustainability and a continual development of the research
 culture within the Unit.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  The unit is committed to collaborative, interdisciplinary research that is international, national and
 local, working closely with other academic institutions, businesses and organisations. Examples
 of academic collaborations include with Liverpool John Moores University (best overall profile in
 REF2014 for UoA 26 (now 24), Naughton), University of Cambridge (QS7, Azevedo), University
 College London (QS10, Azevedo), Universidade de Sao Paolo (QS115, Azevedo), University of
 Technology Sydney (QS133, Harper), Loughborough University (QS Top University in the world
 for Sport-Related Studies, Naughton and Harper), KU Leuven (QS84, Hudson), and University
 of York (QS150, Harris). These collaborations have led to research outputs and grant
 applications. The Unit’s publications have co-authors from more than 50 academic institutions
 (including 25+ international), and 25+ from beyond academia.

 The Unit has memoranda of understanding (MoU) with Huddersfield Town Association Football
 Club (HTAFC) and Wakefield Hockey Club. The MoU with HTAFC has led to two PGR
 collaborations in nutrition and training prescription and has laid a foundation for future funded
 studentships. Furthermore, within the assessment period staff have conducted or are conducting
 research with the following sports teams and institutions: Liverpool FC, Brighton and Hove Albion
 FC, Sunderland AFC, Barnsley FC, ASPETAR, Southampton FC, English Premier League,
 Schalke 04 FC, Huddersfield Giants RLFC, Celtic FC, ORIAM and Heart of Midlothian FC. These
 partnerships and collaborations have been set-up and designed to mutually answer important
 research questions in Sport Science for Team Sports. Staff have also collaborated and continue
 to collaborate with the following organisations and initiatives: World Health Organization (Lewis
 contributed to a workshop on cross-cutting approaches to health promotion in health care), Public
 Health England, Mid Yorkshire Hospitals NHS Trust, Calderdale and Huddersfield NHS
 Foundation Trust, NIHR Devices for Dignity MedTech Co-operative, Kirklees Council and West
 Yorkshire Sport. Lewis also contributed to a scientific consensus meeting in 2018 on updating the
 UK CMO 2011 physical activity guidelines. Staff (Naughton, Haines, Ellis, Hudson, Fish,
 Harper) have also provided consultancy and scientific support over the assessment period to a
 number of sports teams (Celtic FC, Liverpool FC, Huddersfield Town AFC, Huddersfield Giants
 RLFC, Leeds Rhinos RLFC, Hull RLFC, Halifax RLFC, Bradford Bulls RLFC, Halifax FC and
 Rochdale FC), the British American Football Association, and international level and professional
 boxers, runners, golfers, cyclists, swimmers.

 Since 2014, staff within the unit have given over 25 invited presentations (both to academic and
 non-academic audiences), chaired four conference sessions and presented 36 conference papers
 nationally and internationally. Hudson and Fish organised the BASES Biomechanics Interest
 Group annual meeting that was held on the University campus in April 2019, with over 100
 delegates in attendance. In February 2020 BASES announced that their annual student
 conference will be held at the University of Huddersfield in 2021 (now moved to 2022 due to the

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 COVID-19 pandemic), following an application led by Fish, Harper and Naughton. Staff have
 written articles for professional body magazines, blogs, online media outlets, and national
 newspapers, including BASES Sport and Exercise Scientist magazine (Lewis, Harper, Haines),
 The Conversation (Haines and Lewis), Cycling Weekly (Haines), British Journal of Sports
 Medicine Blog (Harper), The Guardian (Ellis) and The Telegraph (Ellis).

 Lewis is a Fellow of BASES and on the Editorial Board for the BASES Sport and Exercise Scientist
 magazine and is one of the founders of the Yorkshire and Humber Physical Activity Exchange
 (YoHPAKE), an organisation whose aim is to bridge the gap between research and practice in
 physical activity and sport. This involves collaboration with other academic institutions (e.g., Leeds
 Beckett University) and Public Health England. The annual YoHPAKE conference was held at the
 University in January 2019, with over 100 delegates in attendance. Lewis is also an Executive
 Board member of Everybody Active and Kirklees Active Schools, a member of the Project Active
 Yorkshire Steering Group, and part of a HEPA Europe working group for children and young
 people (Health Enhancing Physical Activity; which the University is a member of). Hudson was
 on the BASES Biomechanics and Motor Behaviour Division Committee from 2017-2019, and a
 PhD student, Noblett, is the student representative on the BASES Sport and Performance Division
 Committee.

 All staff are Fellows of the Higher Education Academy, four (Harper, Lewis, Haines and Ellis)
 are BASES Accredited Sport and Exercise Scientists, one (Harper) is a Sport and Exercise
 Nutrition Register (SENr) Academic Associate, one (Naughton) is a SENr nutritionist, one
 (Kipling) is a British Association For Cardiovascular Prevention and Rehabilitation (BACPR)
 exercise professional who is a tutor for Level 4 Cancer and Exercise Rehabilitation courses, and
 one (Ellis) holds certification approved by the American Psychological Association on biofeedback
 and neurofeedback. Staff are members of key organisations in the field including BASES,
 American College of Sports Medicine, European College of Sport Science, British Dietetics
 Association, Nutrition Society, and the International Society of Biomechanics.

 In the assessment period three members of staff (Naughton, Ellis and Harper) have written
 invited book chapters in Reflective practice in the sport and exercise sciences: Contemporary
 issues, Knowles et al. (Eds.) 2014, Routledge; Global practices and training in applied sport,
 exercise, and performance psychology: A case study approach, Cremades & Tashman (Eds.)
 2016, Psychology Press, and Elite soccer players: maximizing performance and safety, Curtis et
 al. (Eds.) 2019, Taylor and Francis respectively. Azevedo has externally examined one PhD
 thesis (Leeds Beckett University) and was the winner of the Community Partnership Award at the
 10th Nouveau Anniversary for her Bump to Buggy project (November, 2018). Harper has externally
 examined three PGR theses at Edge Hill University (2016), University of West of Scotland (2017)
 and La Trobe University, Australia (2020), and was awarded second place in the Young
 Investigator Award at the International Science and Football Association annual conference in
 Doha, Qatar in 2016.

 All staff actively peer review for journals in the field, including but not limited to: Medicine and
 Science in Sport and Exercise, Sports Medicine, International Journal of Sports Physiology and
 Performance, International Journal of Obesity, International Journal of Behavioural Nutrition and
 Physical Activity, International Journal of Sports Nutrition and Exercise Metabolism, and
 Scandinavian Journal of Medicine and Science in Sports. Furthermore, Harper has been a Section
 Editor for Biology of Sport since July 2020. Staff have also reviewed grants for funding bodies
 (Physiological Society – Harris and Breast Cancer Now – Lewis).


                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The unit set up a Sport, Exercise and Nutrition Seminar Series (SENSS) in February 2019 that
 received competitive internal funding and is run by two PhD students supervised by Harper,
 Haines and Naughton. Internationally acclaimed academics from other academic institutions
 (e.g., Newcastle University and Swansea University) have spoken on a range of interdisciplinary
 topics within the Sport and Exercise Sciences. SENSS is marketed to the general public and staff
 and students from other local academic institutions to foster further collaborations and
 engagement with research end users.

 This is the first submission for Unit 24 at the University of Huddersfield and is born out of a robust
 research environment that fosters development, facilitates discovery, stimulates growth and
 encourages excellence. The research culture is vibrant and has a positive forward trajectory, with
 academic staff who aim to make an impact on the research base, and the economy and society
 at local, national and international level.




                                                                                               Page 15
