Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Lancaster University (LU)

 Unit of Assessment: Lancaster Environment Centre (LEC)


1     Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1       Introduction
Lancaster Environment Centre (LEC) has a mission to address critical environmental and
social issues through world leading research and impact, spanning Earth Systems and
Environmental Sciences (UoA7) domain, but overlapping with Geography and Environmental
Studies (UoA14), and Agriculture, Food and Veterinary Science (UoA6). It brings together one of
the world’s largest groups of Environmental professionals on a single site. Academics and
researchers work alongside colleagues from 20 different environmentally focussed businesses, the
UK Centre for Ecology and Hydrology, and the Environment Agency, together totalling 400
environmental professionals and 180 PhD students. We are a diverse and inclusive community
that recruits and retains the best natural and social scientists, supported by an internationally
facing, collegiate research culture. Since REF2014, we have made significant strides towards
our ten-year goal of becoming a top-five global Environment Centre, with the following
highlights:
          102 papers, 4.3% of output (2014-20) in the top 1% published world-wide (by field-
           weighted citations SciVal analysis 14/8/2020)).
          Research awards of £53,320,297over the REF census period.
          Our Global Centre for Eco-innovation delivered a return on investment of £28 for
           every £1 invested, comparing favourably to the £8 to £1 ratio for Knowledge Transfer
           Partnerships and has funded 32 Industry-led PhD studentships in LEC.
          One newly elected Fellow of the Royal Society, making two in total, one CBE for
           services to science, an international prize for research and innovation, two national
           prizes for impact and 15 personal research fellowships.
Our interdisciplinary approach to global challenges is built on strong disciplinary
foundations, set within 10 Research Groups, and a culture of research excellence. We
believe that our collegial and supportive environment, with no internal administrative barriers to
cross-disciplinary collaboration, creates the interdisciplinary approaches needed to analyse and
understand environmental and related social challenges, and to promote research with genuinely
sustainable impact.

1.2       Research structure and our approach to interdisciplinarity
Our strengthened management structure and emphasis on research excellence, rather than
quantity, has delivered a year-on-year increase in the proportion of papers in the top 10% of
publications by field weighted citation impact. This now exceeds that of world-leading
institutions and the Russell Group of Universities (Figure 1). Essentially, we have created a
space for excellent disciplinary and interdisciplinary research to flourish based on a set of
collective community values that empower researchers rather than attempting to manage every
action.
LEC’s research structure has been developed to deliver interdisciplinary research and
impact underpinned by disciplinary strength (Figure 2). The LEC Management Group (see
section 2.1), chaired by the LEC Director, sets the goals for the department, with input from the
LEC Associate Director Research (ADR), who also chairs the LEC Research Committee (LEC
RC), and the Associate Director of the LEC Partnerships and Engagement team (ADPET), as well
as bottom-up inputs from across the department. The LEC RC leads the development of the
department’s research goals and strategy, co-created with all staff at an annual/bi-annual away

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


day, and is responsible for the strategy’s implementation. The LEC RC has representation from all
academic staff and key professional services staff. It comprises: the ADR; Research Challenge
and Group leaders (see below); the ADPET and the Research Development Officer. The ADR
ensures integration with the Faculty, by representing LEC on the Faculty of Science and
Technology (FST) research committee. In addition, LEC has an external advisory board to offer
external insights and offer challenge and support.




    Figure 1. Analysis of publications in top 10% published according to Field-Weighted
    Citation Impact for Agricultural and Biological Sciences, Earth and Planetary Sciences and
    Environmental Science subject groups, benchmarked against world-leading institutions and
    the Russell Group of Universities (source SciVal 24/2/21).

Disciplinary strength and line management is achieved through our 10 Research Groups
reflecting disciplinary/thematic areas of strength (Figure 2). The Groups have academics, post-
docs and PhD students as members. LEC’s Director and ADR line-manage a team of Professorial
Group Leaders who each, in turn, manage a group of 6-10 academic staff. The Group Leaders
mentor group members, carry out staff appraisals, and engender a supportive and positive group
dynamic, including nurturing PhD students.
The Research Challenges (Box 1) require interdisciplinarity. Staff and students from disciplinary
groups come together to discuss and develop research that addresses major environmental
challenges and creates lasting impact. The Challenges are led by professors, who are charged
with championing our internationally facing interdisciplinary work.
Further opportunities for interdisciplinary research and wider research collaboration are
provided by the University Research Institutes (Figure 1 and Institutional Environment
Statement). LEC’s relationship with the Institutes is described in section 3.4.




                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 2. LEC structure diagram showing our interdisciplinary cross-cutting Research
Challenges and Research Groups and the connections between them and linkages to
University Research Centres and Institutes (outer ring).

 Box 1 LEC Interdisciplinary Research Challenges
 Tropical Futures develops new understanding of tropical environments and tackles the
 range of social and environmental challenges facing the tropics, drawing on diverse
 disciplinary strengths including ecology, political ecology, biogeochemistry, governance,
 and atmospheric and earth science. By setting the global research agenda on the
 Future of Hyperdiverse Tropical Ecosystems (see section 4.3), this challenge has
 made significant contributions to our understanding of: tropical forest and coral reef
 ecology; the provision of nutritious food; equitable futures for people of the tropics; and the
 threats to the environment posed by pollution. It has seen significant growth and
 development since REF2014: a new chair in Tropical Marine Science (GRAHAM) together
 with lecturers (HICKS, now a professor, and KEITH). The challenge has had significant
 success with personal research fellowships, including ERC (HICKS and SAYER), Royal
 Society (GRAHAM), Dorothy Hodgkin (PANGALA) and ESRC Future Leaders (L.PARRY
 and CHILDS). Research awards are significant at £6,436,208 and its research quality
 recognised by two Phillip Leverhulme prizes.




                                                                                                   Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Box 1 LEC Interdisciplinary Research Challenges
 Sustainable Catchments addresses the complexities that link upstream interventions
 (positive or negative) to the downstream consequences for people, business and
 environment. It brings together disciplines that include hydrology, biogeochemistry, soil
 science, crop science, ecology, eco-innovation and environmental governance, to tackle
 catchment management in the face of climatic and socio-political change. This has led to
 significant multi-disciplinary research projects funded by NERC, EPSRC and BBSRC,
 with research awards of £7,151,548, including the £1,232,264 NERC funded Natural
 Flood Management Quantification project. The success of this research area is
 evidenced by: BEVEN being elected to a Fellowship of the Royal Society for his
 leadership in hydrology; DAVIES awarded a five-year EPSRC fellowship and promoted to
 professor; and MILLS being awarded a 3-year NERC fellowship. Professor in Practice
 LAMB informed the Government’s National Flood Resilience Review in 2016 and the
 Cabinet Office National Risk Assessment for Civil Emergencies in 2017. CHAPPELL,
 LAMB and HAYGARTH won the Defra competition for Innovation in Flood Modelling
 (2017).

 Agri-food has an interdisciplinary agenda that aims to close the crop yield gap while
 using fewer resources and reducing environmental impacts. It also aims to deliver
 sustainable landscapes to provide food and fibre, reduce food waste and facilitate food
 justice. Building on a long tradition of plant science at Lancaster, we have built an
 internationally significant photosynthesis group, appointing M.PARRY and LONG
 (FRS) to chair and supporting them with three new appointments CARMO-SILVA,
 LUNDGREN and TOLEDO-ORTIZ. In addition, we appointed RUFINO to the N8 chair in
 Agricultural Systems. The challenge has generated over £20,530,037 in research awards,
 including three Gates Foundation grants (£2,484,632), and significant publications,
 including those demonstrating a 15% improvement in photosynthetic efficiency.
 This challenge led the Waitrose Collaborative Training Partnership (CTP), funded by
 BBSRC and supporting 18 PhD students, and Lancaster University’s (LU) involvement in
 the £16,000,000 N8 Agrifood programme.

 Eco-Innovation is intimately linked to the LEC-based Centre for Global Eco-Innovation
 (CGE) (see 1.3.4). The Eco-Innovation challenge is impact driven and aims to deliver
 innovation that reduces the environmental impact of products, processes and services, or
 improves the efficient and responsible use of resources. The Centre has received
 sustained core funding from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF),
 2020-2023, to deliver clean and sustainable growth (£14,000,000). The Centre’s
 success has attracted the maximum Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) grant
 awarded to the University for engagement activities (£4,100,000 in 2019). Since 2012,
 CGE has supported 52 PhDs across LU (32 in LEC), almost 30 Masters by Research at
 Lancaster and collaborated with 700+ SMEs. The Centre led the Science and
 Innovation Audit on Clean and Sustainable Growth (section 4.1.7). An independent
 audit forecasts it to have created £65,000,000 of gross value added (GVA) and
 £50,000,000 in net additional GVA by 2026. The Centre’s success was recognised by
 winning the 2015 ‘Outstanding Knowledge Exchange and Commercialisation
 Initiative’ category in the Impact Awards backed by all seven UK research councils,
 and the ‘Research and Development’ category in the 2015 Green Gown Awards.




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Box 1 LEC Interdisciplinary Research Challenges
 Science for the Anthropocene, our newest challenge, was co-created in 2019, emerging
 from an all staff away day. It will draw together work in social science and environmental
 and earth science to develop new approaches for dealing with fundamental instability and
 uncertainty regarding future socio-environmental conditions. Early successes include a
 £1,250,000 Future Leaders Fellowship in which WILLIS will explore how people respond
 to the challenge of achieving net-zero emissions.



1.3     Meeting our REF2014 aims
In REF2014, we set ourselves four key aims, geared towards exploiting the new multi-disciplinary
research environment we had created and strengthening key areas of the department.
1.3.1    Aim 1. Ongoing renewal and re-focusing of our appointments with a focus on society and
         the environment.
We strengthened the society and environment area by creating two new groupings, Political
Ecology and Critical Geographies, to sit alongside our natural science Research Groups with
new appointments (see Figure 2 and section 2.3).
1.3.2    Aim 2. We will extend the model of our ‘integrating research centres (IRCs) to develop
         three new broad-based and directed ‘research actions’
As a department, we decided that contemporary environmental and societal issues require
dynamic research challenges, rather than the more rigid centres and actions proposed in 2014.
Therefore, we introduced research challenges (Box 1) to capitalise on LEC’s
interdisciplinarity (addressing Aim 1) and provide a vehicle for bringing together researchers from
different disciplines to tackle some of the most pressing global issues.
1.3.3    Aim 3. Grow and diversify our network of strategic partnerships nationally and
         internationally
We have made great progress in expanding our national and international links. We have
deepened our engagement in China, Africa and Brazil (sections 4.1.3, 4.1.4 and 4.1.5). In
addition, LEC now has 22 department level memoranda of understanding with more than 20
international institutions, including in Switzerland, China, Mexico, and Kenya. LEC staff have jointly
authored 2,855 papers with international authors from 1,205 institutions across 88 countries
(Figure 3a) and a further 603 with national collaborators. The proportion of our papers
published with international co-authors has increased year-on-year during the REF period
and now exceeds that of the Russell Group UK Universities and International comparator
institutions for the same subject groups (Figure 3b). Many of our international collaborations
result from our strategic research partnerships (section 4.1). Nationally, we have developed strong
and effective partnerships with CEH, Rothamsted and the British Geological Survey (sections 4.1.1
and 4.1.2) and with multiple industrial collaborators and NGOs via the Centre for Eco-Innovation
(sections 1.3.4 and 4.1.6) and the Pentland Centre for Sustainability (section 4.1).




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


a




b




Figure 3a) Co-authorship of LEC papers by country (source SciVal all publications from LEC authors).
b) Percent of publications with international co-authors benchmarked against UK Universities, Russell
Group and International comparators. Data from SciVal limited to Agriculture and Biological Sciences,
Earth and Planetary Sciences and Environmental Science. Search performed 31/7/20.




                                                                                          Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


1.3.4    Aim 4. Developing the Centre for Global Eco-Innovation (CGE)
A key element in the research strategy defined in REF2014 was to build on, and internationalise,
our CGE. In China, we helped to deliver the HEFCE-funded business-linked China Catalyst
project, involving 88 postgraduate students working with our Chinese partners for 6 months. An
independent assessment concluded that over 400 companies were engaged through the
programme, with more than 60 developing partnerships in China, resulting in 38 agreements
(MoUs, cooperation or commercial) between UK SMEs and Chinese partners. In 2016, we
established a satellite centre, ‘CGE Nigeria’, with the University of Benin, which grew out of a
side-event at COP21 in Paris, co-organised with the African Development Bank. CGE Nigeria is
locating environmental SMEs within the University and using university research expertise to help
businesses to develop low carbon products, services and processes, approaches we pioneered in
LEC and China. The development of CGE Nigeria was a key foundation for our £5,926,058
RECIRCULATE project under Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) ‘Growing Research
Capability’.
CGE became one of six University level Research Centres in 2019, in recognition of its
success in engaging businesses regionally (700+) and internationally (100+) in the development of
sustainable solutions, and of the potential for CGE to work with a broader set of partners and
disciplines. Led by J.DAVIES from LEC, it draws together key University departments
(Engineering, Physics, Chemistry, Management School, Computing) and several HEI partners, and
is building a cross-sector, cross-disciplinary community of eco-innovators addressing key
innovation challenges such as reaching net-zero carbon.

1.4     Approach to impact
Our approach to attaining impact is based on ten ‘actions’ Error! Reference source not found.).
These actions have helped us consolidate our reputation for creating impactful research, making
us a preferred port-of-call for business and policy makers with high international visibility. Their
relationship to our impact case studies can be seen in Table 1. Further auditable evidence of
success is presented in section 4.1.6.




Figure 4. LEC’s ten actions supporting delivery of impact (see Table 1).




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Table 1. Evidence of how our ten-actions for delivering impact Error! Reference source not
 found.) relate to the six impact case studies submitted to REF2021.

 Case study                               Approach to impact                      Relationship to
                                                                                  actions
                                                                                  supporting
                                                                                  impact

 Leading the United Nations               Builds on WILSON’S long-term            1, 2, 3, 4, 6
 in a safe and effective biopesticide     international research partnerships
 policy and practice to combat fall       and policy engagement towards
 armyworm, an invasive global crop        improved pest control in sub-
 pest.                                    Saharan Africa.

 Innovative sampling and attribution      LEC protected and licensed              1, 3, 5
 of industrial air pollution to resolve   intellectual property arising from
 and reduce impacts from complex          JONES, TIMMIS and WHYATT’s
 sources for improving health,            research, leading to a technology
 compliance, industrial efficiency        that benefits industry and health.
 and public confidence.

 More crop per drop of water.             DODD and B.DAVIES’s long-term           1, 2, 9
                                          international research and
                                          development combines
                                          fundamental research outputs with
                                          stakeholder input to deliver impact.

 Strengthening environmental              Enhances resilience via policy and      2, 4, 6
 sustainability and social justice in     practice based on BARLOW and
 the Brazilian Amazon: protecting         FRASER’s research, with impact
 secondary forest, guiding climate        delivered through close working
 mitigation and expanding land            links with international policy
 rights.                                  makers, practitioners and
                                          communities.

 Practical carbon metrics to quantify     Impact resulting from a long-term       1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10
 and aid reductions in greenhouse         research collaboration between
 gas emissions by corporations, to        HEWITT, a co-located company
 inform legislation and to engage         and a Professor in Practice,
 the public.                              BERNERS-LEE.

 Building a nation ready for, and         Impact facilitated by a collaborative   1, 5, 9, 10
 resilient to, flooding: the impact of    relationship between BEVEN and a
 LU research on flood risk                Professor in Practice, LAMB,
 management to improve national           working in the commercial sector.
 resilience.




                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


      Our rapid growth in academic-business
      ties has helped us to carry out more
      impactful research. It has led to a
      strong increase in co-publication with
      corporate co-authors (Figure 5Error!
      Reference source not found.), now 11
      times greater than in RAE2001 and
      30% greater than in REF2014. Both
      are much greater than the national
      increase and more than double the
      increase for the Russell Group since
      the 2001 RAE.
      We detail further economic and policy
      impacts in sections 4.1.6 and 4.1.7.
                                               Figure 5. Fold-increase in the number of outputs
                                               with corporate co-authors as a multiple of those
                                               from the period 1997-2001, based on a SciVal
                                               analysis of Agronomic and Biological Sciences,
                                               Earth and Planetary Sciences and Environmental
                                               Sciences for LU, Russell Group and UK
                                               Universities (to 31/7/20).


1.5     Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact
LEC has seen important progress in research and impact in the last 8 years. Despite the
Covid-19 pandemic, our community has remained active and resilient, and we are confident that
our long-term future strategic plans are achievable. For the next REF period, we will continue
building on our success by:
1) Advancing world-leading disciplinary and interdisciplinary research into the environment,
generating significant discoveries, innovative thinking and new research trajectories. These
will be evidenced by continued increases in the proportion of papers within the top 10% world-
wide, continued growth in research income and the award of prestigious fellowships and prizes to
our staff. Delivery will be enhanced by:
 Supporting and nurturing research excellence through a research environment that
     celebrates diversity and inclusivity and allows everyone to excel, evidenced by an Athena
     SWAN Silver award.
 Providing world class facilities such as (i) a unique state-of-the-art plant growth
     facility, comprising an automated, sensor-rich phenotyping centre with controlled environment
     chambers; and (ii) enhanced biogeochemistry capabilities via a major investment in our
     Environmental Science laboratories.
 Enhancing vertical integration within Research Groups, creating fora for discussion and
     knowledge exchange between undergraduates, post-graduates, post-doctoral and academic
     staff.
 Using the ‘Research Challenges’ model to ensure state-of-the-art interdisciplinarity and
     innovation is directed to tackle some of the most important contemporary socio-
     environmental challenges.

2) Co-developing solutions to the most pressing global environmental challenges with our
international partners, industry and the third sector to deliver a significant and wide-reaching
impact. We have made significant investments in both international and national partnerships (see
section 4.3) and will maximise the impact from these. This will involve the following approaches:

                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     For business, we will lead clean and sustainable innovation through collaborative R&D.
      We expect to work with 500+ SMEs to create over 1,300 new jobs and generate an increase of
      £600-950,000,000 net GVA in the next 5 years.
     In policy, we will seek to further our influence over UK government and international policy,
      building on our close ties with the Cabinet Office, the Climate Assemblies, the UN Food
      and Agriculture Organisation and Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on
      Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (see section 4.3.7).
     For wider society, we will engage with public and civil society organisations in generating new
      knowledge, translating research findings and developing better public engagement in key
      sustainability and climate questions. For example, we aim to develop a wide range of impact
      activities through our partnership with the £85,000,000 Eden Project North development at
      Morecambe, less than five miles from LEC. LU is a founding partner in this enterprise.

1.6     Open Research
In line with University policies and the UKRI concordat on open data, we have created a culture
where research data is published alongside research outputs. 42 datasets have been deposited in
the University data repository since 2015 and others with the NERC Data Centre amongst other
repositories. Computer code is routinely archived using GitHub. The University’s Research Data
Management (RDM) service checks Data Management Plans including plans for curation. It
validates datasets and metadata records, advises on licensing, metadata standards and repository
choice. Engagement in data management has been promoted through LU’s ‘Data conversations,’
focussed on planning, storing, transferring, archiving and sharing digital objects.
LEC staff have led major open access initiatives. In Political Ecology, BATTERBURY was a
founder (2018) and steering committee member of the Free Journal Network, a group of 52
journals committed to the Fair Open Access model. QUINTON was a founder and is a current
Executive Editor of SOIL, an open access not-for-profit European Geoscience Union journal and
JAMES helped found the free-to-read journal Volcanica.

1.7     Research Integrity
LEC adheres to the university-wide research integrity and ethics procedures, implemented
via the Faculty’s Research Ethics Committee (FSTREC), which works under the University
Research Ethics Committee. All research conducted by staff and students accords to the ethical
standards set out in the University’s Code of Practice, as written by the University Research
Committee and approved by University Council. These standards have been regularly reviewed by
the research council funding assurance visits and follow sector best practice. Doctoral projects and
staff research involving human participants are approved by FSTREC. All applications are seen by
the Head of Department before submission. Incoming applications are screened by the
committee’s Research Ethics Officer, before distribution to expert committee members. Most
applications are reviewed twice: first by a committee member and then by Chair of FSTREC.
Applications and revisions are dealt with swiftly, with most applications being processed in under
four weeks. LEC has two members sitting on FSTREC.




                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




2     People

2.1    Our culture
We embrace our diversity of disciplines and people and have created a supportive
multidisciplinary research environment based on respect. This community-based approach
is the foundation for everything we do, from enhancing research excellence and opportunity to
promoting wellbeing and mitigating against mental health problems and supporting staff when
these occur.

The success of this approach is validated by the
results of the 2018 university-wide staff survey,
run by Capita, in which 93% of LEC respondents
thought that the department was well managed.
In addition, LEC director, BARKER, won the
2019 University Staff Award for his ‘inspiring,
supportive and inclusive leadership.’
We want all our staff to fulfil their potential,
regardless of (and striving to overcome
barriers related to) their gender and sexual
orientation, socio-economic background,
ethnicity, disability, and stage of their career.
We have supported this by collectively
developing a shared set of department values
(Figure 6).
We support diversity through our Equality
Diversity and Inclusion Forum, which helps to
coordinate, communicate and promote the               Figure 6. LEC shared values
department’s efforts towards equality and
inclusivity and is helping us work towards our goal of an Athena Swan Silver Award.

2.2    Staff development
In the 2017 staff survey, 85% of LEC female staff (80% male) felt ‘strongly encouraged to
participate in training’. Staff are effectively trained in relation to equality, diversity and inclusion
(EDI), wellbeing and mental health, including compulsory EDI and interview training. Research-
specific training includes writing retreats, writing more impactful papers, impact workshops, high-
level statistics courses, as well as management courses and leadership development. Staff are
encouraged to build their CVs by taking leadership roles within and outside the department.
LEC is fully committed to the Vitae Researcher Concordat, to which the University is a
signatory. Departmental policies align with LU’s People Strategy that sets out goals and priorities.
LU aims to conduct excellent research, within an environment which nurtures and cultivates its
staff, encouraging them to fulfil their career ambitions. Since 2013, LEC has had a departmental
concordat co-developed with researchers.
Annual Performance and Development Reviews provide the chance to review progress, identify
any barriers, target support and look ahead in terms of research, teaching and academic
leadership and engagement. Group leaders ensure that these targets reflect both short-term and
longer-term research objectives and career development. Outcomes are discussed with the LEC
senior management team, who act on workload, promotions and sabbaticals.



                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Our promotion systems are transparent and accessible. In order to identify modest or reticent
individuals, CVs are proactively sought and benchmarked. To further break down barriers, we run
department workshops on ‘Making Professor/Senior Lecturer/Lecturer’ for all staff and specifically
for those who undervalue their potential. Promotion cases always take reduced FTE into account
and we highlight any career breaks. Outcomes are based on quality rather than volume.

2.3   Staffing and recruitment policy
Our strategy for appointments is based on recruiting the best researchers: (a) to maintain
and enhance strength in core areas; (b) where there are opportunities for strengthening;
and (c) to grow key areas allied to our objectives.
The department has appointed 27 new academic staff, including 19 Lecturers, 2 Readers, and 7
Professors in this REF period and lost three to retirement while seven have moved on.
Since REF2014 we have: enhanced our capability in Plant Science by appointing FRS LONG and
M.PARRY as professors and CARMO-SILVA as lecturer; strengthened our Critical Geography and
Political Ecology with new professors BATTERBURY and CLEAVER and four lecturers (see
sections 1.3.1 and 1.3.2); targeted marine science as a key area for expansion, appointing
GRAHAM to Professor, HICKS and KEITH to lecturers; created 6 Professors in Practice (PiP)
posts (section 2.4) to help us deliver our impact agenda.
Our focus on recruiting excellent researchers is exemplified by the achievements of GRAHAM and
HICKS (section 3.1) and the seven staff appointed in the REF period who have gone on to win
personal fellowships, and the creation of indefinite contracts for four staff on five-year fellowships
(2 Royal Society (PANGALA, ASHWORTH), 1 NERC (HOSSAINI), 1 Leverhulme
(LUNDGREN)).
Overall LEC has 231 staff members of which 135 (51 post-doctoral researchers) are on
research & teaching, and research only (RTR) contracts. There are 28 technicians, 25
administrators, 16 business facing staff and 11 journal staff. Of the RTR staff: 34% are female and
65% are male; 19% are international (excluding EU), 12% EU and 67% UK. 55% are under 45,
with 83% being under 55 years old. Of the 75.85 FTE category A staff submitted in this REF, all
are on indefinite contracts.
Sabbaticals (or Academic Research and Education Leave) are encouraged as they provide
space for the development of significant outputs, impact and research proposals. All academic staff
are eligible, and applications are invited two years in advance and the research case evaluated.
Since 2014, LEC has granted 27 individual sabbaticals totalling 24.3 FTE years.

2.4   Recognition of, resourcing and support for, Impact
As part of our strategy for Impact (section 1.4) in 2007, we created a dedicated in-house
Partnerships and Engagement Team (PET). This has now grown to 18 staff that help LEC
researchers to deliver knowledge exchange (KE) and impact from research. LEC staff have also
been supported by the LU Impact Fund (£56,000), and Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) funding
from EPSRC (£152,113), ESRC (£25,000), HEIF (£77,000) and GCRF (£45,000).
The University recognises engagement and impact as key promotion criteria (e.g. STEVENS
to Professor 2020) and through an annual awards process. The PET was awarded the Dean’s
Award for Impact in 2018 and LU Impact Award in 2019. Individuals are also recognised:
ARMSTRONG won the Dean’s award for External Engagement and Impact in 2019 for her
research with the solar industry.
In 2015, we were the first UK environment department to appoint Professors in Practice
(PiPs) (Box 2) to actively bridge the gap between academia, industry, the third sector and
policy. Using the model deployed by some UK business schools, PiPs support co-design and co-
delivery of our research and impact (Table 1).


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Box 2. LEC’s Professors in practice




       Rebecca Willis                       Rob Lamb                  Mike Berners Lee

 Was a member of the             Leads the JBA Trust, a         Is CEO of Small World
 Scientific Advisory             charity linking academia,      Consulting with its head
 Committee of UKRI’s             industry and the 3rd sector.   office in LEC. He is an
 Energy Programme and            He received an innovation      influential author and
 NERC Council. She is an         award from the Royal           advises governments and
 Expert Lead for Climate         Academy of Engineering for     corporations on carbon
 Assembly UK, the Citizens’      improving flood predictions.   footprinting. He regularly
 Assembly established by                                        contributes to TV and radio
 the UK Parliament, and was                                     programmes.
 named in the 2020
 Women’s Hour power list.




 Johnathan Grey                  Camilla Toulmin                Duncan McClaren

 As Professor in Practice        Former Director, and now       Former Chief Executive of
 with the Wild Trout Trust, he   Fellow, of the International   Friends of the Earth in
 is focussed on research to      Institute for Environment      Scotland (2003-11), he has
 tackle issues affecting the     and Development. Her           acted as advisor to the UK
 sentinel species, the brown     career has focused on          Government’s Energy
 trout.                          policy research about          Research Partnership. His
                                 agriculture, land, climate     research centres on the
                                 and livelihoods in Africa.     politics of novel
                                                                technologies and climate
                                                                change.


2.5   Training and Supervision of PhD Students
LEC’s Graduate School for the Environment manages our PGT, PGR and professional
training in a cohesive manner that exposes students to a wide range of environmental thought,
perspectives and experiences. It manages: LEC-led doctoral training programmes (Table 2); the
LEC International PG initiatives in China, Africa and Brazil; and collaborative PG provision with the
Graduate School’s institutional partners - UKCEH and Rothamsted Research. Since the launch of
our Graduate School, we have seen a significant uplift in PGR numbers, whilst maintaining our
PhD completion rates close to 90% (Table 3).



                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


LEC’s approach to the recruitment of research students is open and inclusive, and is
evidenced by the gender parity in PhD students (Table 2). All funded positions are externally
advertised, and in adverts we explicitly encourage applications from underrepresented-
backgrounds. LEC has a standardised application procedure: formal interviews with gender
balanced panels are held for competitive studentships and prior to the offer of a place to self-
funded or sponsored students.
Table 2. PhD student funding during the REF period split by funding source (note total (236) higher
than REF period registrations (217) due to some multiple funding sources.
 Funding source                                         Dates            Number

 Envision DTP (NERC)                                    2014-            30

 Waitrose CDT (BBSRC)                                   2017-            12

 STARs CDT (NERC/BBSRC)                                 2015 -           11

 Food security CDT(BBSRC)                               2011-2015        7

 North West Social Science DTP (ESRC)                   2017-            10
 Faculty studentships                                   2014-            59
 Self-funded                                            2014-            25
 Other sources                                                           50
 Centre for Global Eco-Innovation (ERDF)                2015-2020        32



 Table 3. LEC research student registrations and completion rates for students completing in
 that academic year within 4-years
 Date                           2014-15       2015-16      2016-17    2017-18    2018-19
 PGR registrations (Total)      30            26           38         34         31
 PGR registrations (male)       15            18           17         17         13
 PGR registrations (female)     15            8            21         17         18
 PhD completion rate            83%           96%          90%        92%        89%


Studentships are funded from a variety of sources. We have used regional development funds
to support 29 business-facing PhD studentships over the REF period, all with a financial
contribution from the company partner. We have also been successful with Centre for Doctoral
Training (CDT) and Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTP), taking the lead on four UKRI DTPs
(STARS, ENVISION1, ENVISION2 and Waitrose) and participated in a further two (Table 2).
Additionally, we have participated in three Marie Sklowdowska-Curie Innovative Training Networks
(NEMOH, IMPROVE, iTECC).
LEC directly funds 5-10 fully funded home/EU studentships each year. An additional 1-2
funded places per year are offered for international students from developing countries. We
offer a fee waiver to 1-2 Chinese students per year to sustain our research relationships with
China, and the Sew-Reap project funded 10 UK and EU students to spend up to 24 months in
China. LU has supported the Tropical Futures challenge by funding 6 PhD studentships for African
students and offering fee waivers to 10 Brazilian students on a split PhD with Lavras University.


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


All students are supported by at least two academic supervisors from within the university, a
Director for Postgraduate Research Students, and a team of postgraduate administrators. Internal
progress monitoring starts at 4-months and occurs every 6-months thereafter and consists of a
written report on progress and plans, plus a record of supervision meetings and training. Students
complete the report with supervisors and then supervisors provide feedback on progress. All
reports are reviewed by independent subject-specific panels. Compliance with our internal system
is 100%.
Training and support for PhD students is mapped against Vitae’s Researcher Development
Framework centred around four domains: (a) knowledge and intellectual abilities; (b) personal
effectiveness; (c) research governance and organisation; and (d) engagement, influence and
impact. There are over 50 courses available to research students, plus access to our partner’s
(Rothamsted Research and UKCEH) courses, and to our Masters modules. Our CDTs and DTPs
offer their own bespoke training programmes and, wherever possible, these are made available for
wider participation. All students are members of Lancaster’s Graduate College, which provides
additional wellbeing support and a social home. To prepare students for life after their research
degree we provide training on career options inside and outside academia, and on effective CV
preparation, complemented with 3-month placements offered in industry, government and 3rd
sector organisations. Of the 114 PhD graduates who responded, all were in employment within six
months of graduating (Table 4). Of these, the majority were post-doctoral researchers or in the
private sector.
 Table 4. First destination returns for 114 LEC PhD graduates who responded
 Destination                                                         Percent of
                                                                     graduates
 Education (teaching, university administration)                     11%
 University lecturer                                                 10%
 NGO                                                                 4%
 Post-doctoral research                                              36%
 Private sector                                                      31%
 Public sector                                                       9%

2.6   Equality, diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
LEC has held Athena SWAN Bronze since 2013 and is working towards a Silver Award.
Through our values and culture, (see Figure 6) we have made diversity and inclusion central to our
research practices. The gender split for academics and researchers is 67% male and 33% female.
We expect this to approach parity as older male staff retire and our EDI recruitment practices
continue to bear fruit: 13 of the 19 new lecturers recruited in the REF period are female, of which 3
have since been promoted to Senior Lecturer, 1 to Reader and 2 to Professor. The number of
female professors has increased by 70%, via recruitment and promotion and the number of
male professors by 30%. Of the 9 additional female professors, 4 were recruited and 5 promoted.
We are proactive in providing support for funding applications on equality and diversity
grounds. Two colleagues in receipt of Royal Society Dorothy Hodgkin Fellowships were supported
by senior colleagues in the preparation of their applications and have adjusted working
arrangements and financial support in line with their Fellowship applications.
Female grant success rates (53%) tend to be higher than their male counterparts (43%) and
the average size of grant awarded is the same across genders. However, we have identified
that as co-investigators, female academics tend to apply for proportionally fewer and smaller
grants, and their success rates tend to be lower with smaller awards than their male counterparts.

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


We are addressing this through better mentoring by research group leaders (see 1.2) and peer-to-
peer support.
We encourage and support all staff to develop their leadership potential and pursue
research-related leadership roles, and we have a number of examples when females have
done so and been successful (e.g. LU Pro-VC for Research and Enterprise (HEATHWAITE),
REF2014 panel member (MAHER), and Director of the Global-Eco-Innovation Centre (J.DAVIES).
Through staff meetings and workshops, we have begun a process of tackling inequalities facing
BAME staff and students through our ‘Decolonising LEC’ initiative, aimed at raising
awareness and exploring how, as a department, we can remove barriers for BAME colleagues.
LEC has also been actively involved in university-wide efforts to fight discriminatory behaviour and
hate speech and is supporting LU’s aspiration to join the Race Equality Charter in April 2021.
Our approach to the rating of outputs for the REF submission followed the University Code of
Practice and was underpinned by the principles of transparency, consistency,
accountability and inclusivity. Only outputs were rated and no judgement on individuals was
made as part of this process. LEC is submitting 94.4% of academic staff for assessment and
currently only has 4.4 FTE on teaching and scholarship contracts. We have undertaken an initial
equality impact assessment for REF equality profile – in terms of age, disability, gender and
ethnicity – of staff who are Category A eligible, providing a baseline of eligible staff.

2.7     Supporting our Staff
2.7.1    Structured support
Recognising the importance of ad-hoc meetings and interactions with students for development of
new ideas and staff well-being, pre-pandemic we encouraged staff to be in the office. Core
meetings are not held at the start and end of the school day and our main Staff Meeting is
repeated twice to enable broad participation. Internet conferencing platforms, now commonplace
since the pandemic, have enabled staff who are off campus to join meetings and take part in
research seminars.
The department has two rounds a year for travel funding for conferences, which are open to all
staff.
2.7.2    Supporting staff through the pandemic
LEC has supported staff to keep in touch with colleagues and to continue their research. At the
start of the initial lockdown, weekly staff briefings occurred via Microsoft teams. Covid risk
assessment procedures were put in place to allow fieldwork and access to research labs and office
space for research staff and research students.
2.7.3    Wellbeing
Wellbeing is at the heart of our values (see Figure 6 and section 2.6). We were the first LU
department to have a dedicated wellbeing role and the first to launch initiatives around staff
mental health. Those staff that require support are assisted on an individual basis and in line with
LU’s commitments to the Disability Confident Scheme and the Stonewall Global Diversity
Champions programme. We have procedures relating to bullying and harassment, with two internal
contact points and a further contact point outside the department. We deal with any problems
sensitively, bringing in support from professionals in occupational health where needed. Core staff
have attended mental health first-aid training. LEC took the initiative in 2018 to set up a university-
wide working group to enhance support for staff members who have dyslexia. All staff have access
to the University wellbeing support through the Employee Assistance programme, which uses the
Government’s five steps to wellbeing framework. Students can access pastoral support through the
Graduate College advisor team and help with mental health issues through the Counselling and
Mental Health Service.


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


We have developed department policies to provide support before, during, and after periods
of extended leave. For those returning from parental leave this includes a place for resting and
expressing milk and, for academic staff, conversations about reducing teaching commitments and
encouragement to apply for the LU Maternity and Adoption Research Support funding (up to
£10,000). Parental leave entitlements also apply to research students. We also support staff
members with other caring responsibilities and well-being issues e.g. by reducing teaching.
2.7.4    Community
Since REF2014, LEC has fostered a bottom-up researcher community, the Early Career
Support Network (ECSN). It provides career development support on funding, induction, career
pathways, peer-to-peer support, work-life balance, and mentoring. The ECSN has grown from the
first programme in 2015, which was organised by the department, with 12 mentoring pairs and
training sessions delivered by LU’s organisational education and development group, to the third
researcher mentoring programme in 2018, organised by the ECSN, with 20 mentoring pairs linking
senior and junior staff.
We strongly promote a culture of community and collegiality for our staff and research
students. For example, we have a family-centred Christmas Party, a Diwali, wellbeing breakfasts
(aimed at our PhD students), yoga, and staff social activities. LEC holds a winter research
conference to celebrate research achievements. In 2018, we introduced the ‘LEC Good
Colleague’ scheme to celebrate and recognise contributions made to our day-to-day work
life and our inclusive culture. In 2020, the award went to an ECR (EVANS), who brought the
department and UKCEH together through the Covid-19 crisis by organising weekly online quizzes
with up to 197 participants.



3     Income, Infrastructure and facilities

3.1     Research funding
LEC’s research income has grown by 38% from a mean of £5,510,000 per annum in the last
REF period to £6,714,052 per annum for the current period. This equates to a mean per capita
annual research income of £88,517 based on the 75.85FTE submitted in this REF. Success
rates are 39% overall and, 32% for UKRI (2016-2020).
Our challenge based research structure (Box 1) has enhanced our ability to win major and
prestigious funding awards has allowed us to carry out significant research, which has resulted in
major scientific discoveries and advances in understanding (see Table 5 for examples).




                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Table 5. Examples of grant funding leading to major scientific discoveries and advances in
understanding.
 PI             Funding      Funder                   Contribution

 GRAHAM         £1,876,332 Royal Society,             New discoveries concerning long-term
                           Leverhulme Trust,          outcomes for reefs severely disturbed by
                           Bertarelli Foundation      climatic disturbances and mass coral
                           and others                 bleaching
 HICKS          £1,427,953 ERC, Leverhulme Trust      New knowledge of relationships
                                                      individuals and societies form with nature
                                                      and how they shape people’s social,
                                                      environmental, and health outcomes

 RUFINO         £1,585,402 GCRF, German Ministry      Important strides forward in our
                           for Economic               understanding of the impacts of land-use
                           Cooperation and            change on biogeochemical cycling in
                           Development,               Africa
                           International Fund for
                           Agricultural
                           Development
 LONG and       £2,484,632 Gates Foundation           LONG directs the $45 million Realizing
 M.PARRY                                              Increased Photosynthetic Efﬁciency
                                                      project and is making world-leading
                                                      advances in photosynthetic efficiency with
                                                      enormous implications for global food
                                                      security

 BARLOW         £2,151,132 NERC                       Significant advances in our understanding
                                                      of the ecology of secondary tropical
                                                      forests
 OSTLE          £1,725,665 BBSRC,NERC                 Fundamental understanding of the impacts
                                                      of climate change on the soil carbon cycle

 CARMO          £2,322,156 BBSRC, EU                  Important advances in how environmental
 SILVA                                                factors impact on crop photosynthetic
                                                      efficiency
 J.DAVIES       £1,421,986 EPSRC, BBSRC, NERC         Significant steps forward in our ability to
                                                      model the control of nitrogen and
                                                      phosphorus on the soil carbon cycle




3.2     Strategies for generating research income
Our strategy for securing research funding has seven elements:
      1) We work to enhance grant writing quality through rigorous peer review of grant
         applications prior to submission and by early engagement with the University’s
         Senior Research Development Managers and other technical and professional
         support staff. LEC has a dedicated professional Research Development Officer who
         supports the financial and logistical aspects of grant preparation.
                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   2) We have increased support for new academic staff. All are line-managed by their
      Professorial Group Leader and have an academic mentor within a broader culture of
      providing support for grant applications, papers and mock panel interviews. Early career
      academics have reduced teaching loads that increase over a three-year probation
      period. Start-up funds are provided to enable conference attendance and ensure no loss of
      research momentum during the transition to a full academic post. All new academic staff
      are allocated a PhD studentship within their first two years. Our support for ECRs has
      increased the number of prestigious fellowships held by department members from
      three at the last REF to 15 during this REF period (Table 6).

   3) The ADR, ADPET and HOD identify large            Table 6. Funders of LEC’s 15 personal
      grants that LEC can lead and task key            research fellowships
      colleagues with developing bids. Our                                         Number of
      RECIRCULATE GCRF project (£5,926,058)            Funder                      fellowships
      exemplifies this approach. We collaborated       Royal Society Dorothy
      with eight academics across Engineering,         Hodgkin                     2
      Faculty of Health and Medicine and the           EPSRC                       1
      Management School to develop a successful
                                                       ERC                         2
      proposal led by LEC.
                                                       ESRC                        2
   4) We have sought to increase the diversity of      Leverhulme                  1
      LEC’s grant income to make us more               NERC                        3
      resilient to changes in funding patterns. We     Royal Society               2
      received grants from 469 different funders       UKRI Future leaders         2
      during the REF period. Our income is still
      dominated by UKRI, but even here, we are not reliant on one Research Council (Figure 7).
      European Union research funding is a case in point: it has been an important source of
      funding for us (6.8%), but we are not reliant on it and expect to weather the post-Brexit
      changes to the funding landscape.




                                                                                        Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 7. Funders of 412 grants (2014-2020) by grant value and number

   5) We stimulate and facilitate exchanges between academia and business, industry or
      public or third sector bodies (see section 2.4).

   6) We are generating more activity from/with existing National and International
      partnerships.
      Internationally, our partnerships in Brazil, led by BARLOW, have generated a series of
      publications shining new light on the management of forest and wildlife in Amazonia.
      Partnerships in China (DODD, OSTLE, ZHANG, HEWITT, WILD) have produced significant
      research outputs concerning air quality and plant responses to drought and the
      commercialisation of water quality sensors developed in LEC with the establishment
      of a Chinese manufacturing facility (ZHANG). In the Pacific Rim and Indian Ocean
      countries, our Tropical Futures Challenge has led to significant outputs pertinent to the
      future of coral reefs and the people who depend upon them (see Box 1).


                                                                                       Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


         We have focussed on generating income where we already have strong partnerships
         in Africa, Brazil and China (see sections 4.1.3, 4.1.4 and 4.1.5) and on the
         development of new partnerships with international research centres e.g. Centre for
         International Forestry Research (CIFOR) and the Centre for Maize Improvement
         (CIMMYT). The success of this approach is evidenced by considerable growth in our
         international research portfolio since REF2014, resulting in publications with co-
         authors from 89 countries, particularly in China, Brazil and Africa, generating many high
         impact research publications. We have taken full advantage of the GCRF, leading a
         £7,200,000 (£5,926,058 to LEC) capacity-building grant, and winning an additional eight
         grants with a value of £3,330,773.
         Nationally, outside of the University sector, we have built on our strong relationships with
         UKCEH (see 4.1.1) and Rothamsted Research (see section 4.1.2), generating 10 grants
         with UKCEH (£1,616,438) and 7 with Rothamsted (£564,734).
      7) Our participation in LU Research Institutes and Centres has been a significant
         success. We lead the action on Environmental Data Science in the Data Science Institute
         and in 2019, together with UKCEH, we launched the Centre of Excellence in
         Environmental Data Science (CEEDS), with joint directors from LEC and UKCEH, a new
         Reader (MCMILLAN) and lecturer (ZHANG). By working more closely with scientists from
         cognate LU groups in Maths, Statistics, and Computing, we have seen significant new grant
         activity, including the Data Science of the Natural Environment project, a £3,200,000
         EPSRC project on environmental data science. LEC also plays a key role in ‘Energy
         Lancaster’, (ARMSTRONG is the deputy director and GORMALLY is the Energy and
         Society lead). This has helped better position LEC researchers in the energy research
         landscape with successes including two prestigious fellowships (UKRI Future Leaders &
         NERC Industrial Innovation) and inclusion in three key national networks (EnergyREV
         within the Prospering from the Energy Revolution Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund; the
         UK Energy Research Centre; and the Supergen Energy Storage Network).

3.3     Research facilities and organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact
LEC’s purpose-built 12,730m2 building (Figure 8a) houses all staff, laboratories, partner companies
and UKCEH Lancaster on a single site. The laboratories range from general research support -
such as our water quality laboratories - which serve a range of staff, to specialised facilities (Box
3). To enhance opportunities for impact we have 20 co-located Environmental businesses within
the LEC building (Figure 8a) with 78 employees. Resident companies have access to our
laboratories and equipment, resulting in impactful research collaborations with a value in
excess of £3,000,000, for example on developing fertilisers from anaerobic digestates in
collaboration with Stopford Projects (NERC funded £669,554).




                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


a




b




Figure 8a. Aerial image of part of the Lancaster campus to highlight LEC. LEC is spread
over three connected buildings, four floors and incorporates the UKCEH site. It occupies the
largest footprint of any department on the campus. b) LEC’s field station at Hazelrigg, 2 km
from campus, with main thematic research areas highlighted.




                                                                                         Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Box 3. Specialist research facilities

 Our Subsurface Fluid Isotope Geochemistry Laboratory (REF period investment
 >£600,000) is the only lab in the UK with magnetic sector noble gas instrumentation
 and a dual laser quantum cascade laser clumped methane monitor, providing a high
 sensitivity analysis of noble gases and methane isotopologues in a range of environmental
 sample types. These have made the tracing of crustal fluids from source to sink
 possible (ZHENG). This laboratory has been funded by research councils and industrial
 partners (e.g. PetroChina).

 LEC has excellent laboratories for environmental organic chemistry research.
 Equipment includes time-of-flight, tandem and high-resolution mass spectrometry, with
 bespoke field-deployable apparatus including proton transfer reaction mass spectrometry.
 This has yielded notable discoveries including the first measured fluxes of
 sesquiterpenes from tropical Amazonian soils (ASHWORTH) and evidence that the
 official air pollution inventory for Beijing underestimates the emissions of reactive
 volatile organic compounds (HEWITT), which was supported by three NERC grants
 totally £513,026. Our stable isotope facility (joint with UKCEH) includes two Elementar
 Vario elemental analysers C, H, N, O and S, and a multiflow analyser for determination of C
 and O isotopes. All analysers are coupled to Isoprime 100 continuous flow isotope ratio
 mass spectrometers, enabling state-of-art analytical precision. The application of a unique
 headspace analysis technique led to the first direct isotopic evidence of biogenic
 methane emissions from beneath a temperate glacier (WYNN, BARKER, OSTLE,
 TUFFEN, ZHOU), a hitherto unknown source of methane to the global atmosphere.

 The Photosynthesis suite has been key to delivering fundamental advances in our
 knowledge of photosynthesis, for example the finding that slow induction of
 photosynthesis on shade to sun transitions may cost at least 21% of productivity in
 crop plants (LONG, M.PARRY, CARMO-SILVA). It includes glasshouse modules and eight
 high-specification growth chambers, allowing the study of natural variation in large
 diversity sets and transgenic plants under a range of controlled environments. With
 support from the Gates Foundation (£2,484,632), the lab has developed a unique
 system to enable high throughput screening of leaf material during transitions from
 low to high light (photosynthetic induction).

 The Soils and Ecosystem Ecology Research Facility has delivered major new insights
 into the greenhouse gas exchange between soils and the atmosphere (OSTLE) the
 impact of biodiversity on soil functioning (OSTLE, QUINTON, STEVENS) and the
 development of novel fertilizers (SEMPLE). It has been supported by grants totalling
 £8,166,325. The main laboratory has instrumentation to enable detailed investigations into
 plant-soil interactions, soil and ecosystem biogeochemistry, macronutrient cycles and
 greenhouse gas emissions. Seven satellite labs allow soil preparation, soil enzyme assays,
 C-14 tracer studies, GC-FID and GC-MS measurements, CT scanning, rainfall simulation
 and separate, dedicated environments for research into digestate and amended soils.

 LEC’s Environmental Magnetism & Palaeomagnetism Laboratory has enabled ground-
 breaking research on the presence of metal-bearing air pollution nanoparticles
 lodged in the human brain and heart (MAHER). A £377,000 NERC Strategic
 Environmental Science Capital grant supported purchase of a 2G RAPID cryogenic
 magnetometry system (unique among the three UK RAPID systems), allowing magnetic
 and palaeomagnetic analyses of environmental samples (rocks, soils, sediments, airborne
 particles) and also of human tissues (brain, heart).



                                                                                         Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Hazelrigg Environmental Research field station has provided the platform for major
 findings on the impact of nitrogen enrichment on plant biodiversity (STEVENS) and of
 biodiversity on soil processes (OSTLE, QUINTON), as well as new insights into trace
 organic air pollution (JONES, SWEETMAN). The 6-hectare site (Figure 8b) has a number
 of long-term ecological experiments: a field laboratory equipped with high speed internet; a
 full Met Office climatological station with sonic anemometers for surface-atmosphere flux
 research (HEWITT) and a 3-axis fluxgate magnetometer as part of the Sub-Auroral
 Magnetometer Network (SAMNET); and glasshouses and air quality monitoring.



In 2018, together with UKCEH, we created The Atrium, an accessible and disability-friendly
area, that serves as an open meeting and social space. It is accessible to all University,
UKCEH and co-located business staff and students, increasing opportunities for informal
networking (LU investment £900,000, NERC contribution £300,000, Figure 9). The space hosts our
annual PGR poster sessions, with over 150 posters, as well as international meetings and
outreach activities.
                                                 All staff and research students are provided with
                                                 desktop computers and computing in the
                                                 department, which is supported by the University’s
                                                 Information Systems Service, with one FTE
                                                 permanently based in LEC. We benefit from
                                                 £1,750,000 University investment in Secure Data
                                                 Science Infrastructure. For computational research
                                                 that requires high performance and high throughput
                                                 computing, LEC utilises Lancaster’s High-End
                                                 Computing Cluster. This combined facility offers
 Figure 9 LEC Atrium                             10,000 CPU cores, 49TB aggregate of memory,
                                                 230TB of high-performance filestore, and 4PB of
                                                 medium performance filestore.
The Library not only provides access to literature but has underpinned our approach to
open research (see 1.6.) and data management. It provides research intelligence, advice on
publication data, citations analysis and altmetrics (see also University Environment Statement).

3.4       Evidence of cross-HEI shared or collaborative use of research infrastructure
Here we pick out four exemplars of our collaborative approach to the use of research infrastructure
          We operate a stable isotope facility with UKCEH, where we share expertise and
           resources to deliver high-quality isotopic data and pioneer novel techniques (see Box 3).
          We developed shared research laboratories for biogeochemical research with two
           Chinese Academy of Science institutes, the Guangzhou Institute of Geochemistry
           (GIG-CAS) and the Institute of Urban Environment (IUE-CAS) in Xiamen, and with the
           South China Agricultural University (SCAU) in Guangzhou. These partnerships have
           supported the major SEWREAP project and delivered numerous joint publications in
           environmental organic chemistry (JONES, SWEETMAN). GIG-CAS has provided world-
           leading mass spectrometry equipment at no cost to facilitate our air quality research in
           Beijing (HEWITT).
          Together with Durham and Newcastle Universities, we operated the Defra ‘Demonstration
           Test Catchment’ platform in Cumbria (2009-2018, Phase II and III investment £587,427). It
           provided high-resolution data on macronutrient losses from agricultural catchments
           and led to significant findings on the impact of climate change on diffuse pollution and
           the implications for mitigation strategies (HAYGARTH, BARKER).


                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


      In 2019, together with UKCEH, we launched the Centre of Excellence in
       Environmental Data Science (CEEDS), with joint directors from LEC and UKCEH and
       drawing in scientists from cognate groups in Maths, Statistics and Computing in LU.
       CEEDS operates across a range of scientific areas (air, land/soil, water/ice and
       biodiversity), representing the breadth of environmental science across LU and UKCEH.
LEC staff also make use of other major research facilities. For example they:
      Regularly use the NERC-STFC Jasmin super data cluster cloud computing facility.
       This has underpinned numerous grants and PhD studentships, including the £2,656,400
       EPSRC-funded Data Science of the Natural Environment project, which has delivered,
       amongst other things, a new statistically robust method for combining large scale
       atmospheric models (YOUNG).
      Access the Genetically Modified Crop field facility at Rothamsted Research for work
       with its International Wheat Yield Improvement grant and use Rothamsted’ s wheat
       transformation facility to field test transgenic wheat lines. These have delivered important
       new findings on the regulation of Rubisco activity (M.PARRY, CARMO-SILVA).
      Work closely with the NERC Isotope Geoscience Laboratory and the NERC labs at
       Scottish Universities Environmental Research Centre for analysis of soil, sediment and
       rock samples. This has led to new insights into the evolution of mountain belts,
       Antarctica and the River Nile (NAJMAN) and the world’s first isotopically derived soil
       formation rates for agricultural soils (QUINTON, DAVIES).




                                                                                           Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


4     Collaboration and contribution to the research base

4.1     Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
Collaboration is central to our approach (see section 3.2). Here we highlight our most significant
research partnerships.
4.1.1    Research partnership with the UK Centre for Ecology and Hydrology
Nationally, UKCEH is one of our primary strategic partners. With over 100 staff on site at
Lancaster, UKCEH makes a significant contribution to the LEC research environment. Since 2014,
we have had shared posts (SWEETMAN, LI, ZHANG, WANG) and secondments (HEATHWAITE,
JONES). UKCEH are a major partner in our Graduate School for the Environment, and partners on
DTPs. UKCEH work closely with us internationally, especially in China. We created CEEDS, and
share an isotope facility including coordinated equipment purchases and infrastructure (section
3.4). This has led to significant scientific discoveries, and significant joint grant activity (10 grants,
£1,616,438).
4.1.2    Research Partnership with Rothamsted Research
We selected Rothamsted Research as a strategic partner because it is a world-leading
research centre with a long history of ground-breaking discoveries in agricultural science.
They are a major partner in our Graduate School for the Environment and STARS CDT.
Rothamsted works closely with us in our development of SINO-UK research relationships (see
section 4.1.4), where we have received support from the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, STFC
and NERC (JONES, OSTLE, SWEETMAN, ATKINSON) to support research and network
development. They are key partners for our Plant and Crop Sciences, and Soil and Land Systems
Groups, providing access to trials and field sites.
4.1.3    Research & Innovation Partnerships across Africa
Over the last 5 years, LEC has increased its research and engagement footprint in West Africa,
mainly in Ghana and Nigeria. Our LU-Ghana campus offers a hub at which we hold research
workshops involving LEC researchers and African partners from Ghana and other African
countries. Another significant strategic partnership is with the University of Benin in Nigeria, with
whom we have established a West African hub for CGE Nigeria. This was recognised in 2016 with
an award of £5,926,058 from GCRF, focused on building research and innovation capability in
research organisations in Africa.
LEC has also increased research activities in East Africa, by forming partnerships with local
universities and the Consortium of Agricultural Research Centres (CGIAR) to deliver transformative
research and capacity building to conserve natural capital. This research has been supported by
funding from CGIAR, the German Science Foundation and GCRF (total £2,112,000) and aims to
provide clear evidence and practical metrics on how to protect and restore fragile environments.
4.1.4    Research & Innovation Partnerships in Guangzhou, China
In addition to our work with the China Catalyst project (see section 1.3.4) our most mature
partnerships in China are in Beijing with the Chinese Research Academy of Environmental
Sciences (CRAES), the applied research institute of the Chinese Ministry of Ecology and
Environment. We have led and influenced the research agenda and development of China’s
chemicals management and pollution research with CRAES (JONES, SWEETMAN) and co-
hosted international research meetings organised with CRAES and UKCEH. In southern China,
we partner with two Chinese Academy of Science institutes: Guangzhou Institute of Geochemistry
(GIG-CAS) in Guangzhou and the Institute of Urban Environment in Xiamen. GIG-CAS has world
leading and unique facilities for environmental organic geochemistry and air quality research,
which we freely access (JONES, ZHENG, ZHANG, SWEETAN, HEWITT). We have developed


                                                                                                 Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


tripartite research links with GIG-CAS and the South China Agricultural University (SCAU) in
Guangzhou, with shared research laboratories.
4.1.5   Research and Innovation Partnerships in Brazil
LEC has a mature research partnership with Brazilian institutions. We have co-developed
research with the Federal University of Lavras in Brazil, focusing on various aspects of tropical and
agri-food research. The partnership has resulted in a joint PhD programme with 14 joint PhD
students who have spent time in the UK and Brazil. In 2016, it was the base for a joint NERC-
funded advanced course on tropical soils for 30 UK and Brazilian PhD students. BARLOW,
L.PARRY and FRASER have all held visiting positions at research institutions and universities in
the Brazilian Amazon and have engaged with a broad range of practitioners and policy makers,
including Federal prosecutors, health agencies and environmental secretariats. These partnerships
have resulted in major research findings and have had significant traction in influencing Brazilian
forest protection legislation that is featured as one of our impact case studies (Table 1).
4.1.6   Supporting sustainable economic growth
CGE has played a significant role (~£11m of the £28m total awarded) in the performance of
Lancaster’s ERDF project portfolio in the 2014-20 programme. An independent review of the first
phase of CGE’s work with regional SMEs forecast that by 2026 it will have created £65,000,000
of gross value added (GVA) and £50,000,000 in net additional GVA. The review showed that in
terms of efficiency, CGE outperformed the regional benchmark for net additional jobs identified in
the review of Regional Development Agency spending, at £20,922 per new job compared with the
regional benchmark of £37,600. In terms of return on investment an independent economic
evaluation in 2019 calculated a return on investment of £28 for every pound invested which
compares very positively with the £8 of net additional GVA is generated for every £1 of Knowledge
Transfer Partnership grant funding invested.
To help lead the sustainability agenda on the global stage we have a 50% stake in The
Pentland Centre for Sustainability in Business, alongside the LU Management School. The
Centre is funded by the Rubin Foundation Charitable Trust, the charitable arm of Pentland Group
and was established with a new chair (WHITEMAN) and a lecturer (DAVIES, now Professor) in
2015. It has generated £5,500,000 of research income and worked alongside the World Business
Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), a CEO-led, global association of some 200
international companies on sustainable soil use, and with Nestlé to help it meet its obligations
within the Taskforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Research with Energy
Lancaster and the solar power industry has led to the development of a decision support tool
that is revolutionising the solar industry’s approach to environmental management
(ARMSTRONG). Additionally, WALKER co-directed the UKRI funded DEMAND Centre (2013-
2019, £7,200,000) with expertise from across three LU faculties and nine external partners, into a
6-year programme of research. Impacts included working with EDF Energy to generate new
analyses of temporal patterns of energy demand to inform their strategic planning and approach to
smart metering.
4.1.7   Policy
Our impact on policy is exemplified in the following examples:
   Global policy implementation for the protection of stratospheric ozone. PAUL was
    appointed as co-chair of the Environmental Effects Assessment Panel of the Montreal Protocol
    for the Protection of the Stratospheric Ozone layer, building on his collaborative and
    multidisciplinary research into the impacts of ultraviolet-B radiation on terrestrial ecosystems,
    environmental microbiology and chemistry, and biomedicine. Through a series of ‘non-
    technical’ articles commissioned by UNEP’s OzonAction unit, he has ensured that those
    implementing ozone protection ‘on the ground’, especially in developing countries, are fully
    informed of the wider benefits of the Montreal Protocol.

                                                                                            Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     Fall armyworm can affect millions of hectares, causing massive losses to staple grain
      crops and damaging livestock production. WILSON’s research into the pest led to him
      being the only non-African to join a crisis meeting in Zimbabwe in 2017 that recommended the
      development of farmer education and the development of integrated pest management (IPM)
      strategies. He was subsequently invited to chair the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO)
      committee on biopesticides. This committee has organized and informed FAO’s Integrated
      Pest Management Strategy, which has now been implemented in 45 countries and benefited
      tens of thousands of farms.
     Informing industrial strategy. Another powerful expression of cooperation across our
      network of regional partners has been the development of a Science & Innovation Audit (SIA)
      on Clean and Sustainable growth. Led by LEC, in partnership with ten universities, over 40
      large businesses and 100s of SMEs, the audit was published by BEIS in March 2019. The
      starting hypothesis of the SIA was that the region ‘…will realise its potential as a global market
      leader for low-carbon and sustainable products, processes and services through greater
      networking, integration and connectivity across the whole of the region’s research base and
      business community….’. This was informed directly by our experience with CGE: the SIA’s
      evidence and recommendations effectively define the Centre’s growth trajectory and identify
      new opportunities to widen and deepen what we have already achieved within LU and across
      our network of collaborators.
     Tropical Futures and marine policy. Since 2002, research in the Chagos Archipelago has
      mostly focused on the coral reef fish communities (GRAHAM), their unique biomass, and
      stability in the face of disturbance. This has informed the policy on impact of rats on coral
      ecology and led to rat eradication becoming one of the mainstays of the British Government’s
      Conservation Management Plan for the British Indian Ocean Territory. This research has also
      resulted in the Australian government adopting metrics arising from the work into a long-term
      monitoring programme of the Great Barrier Reef.

4.2       Interaction and engagement with diverse communities and publics
LEC sees outreach to diverse communities and the public as a key part of our efforts to foster
wider participation in science. Activities are co-ordinated by its Outreach and Engagement
committee and include:
          Science Hunters, a project involving the Minecraft computer game, developed by
           STEVENS in 2015 to reach students with barriers to accessing higher education.
           These barriers include but are not limited to: disability; low family income; the first student in
           a family to apply to University: being of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic background: and
           being in care/a care leaver. Extensive work is also undertaken with children with Autism
           Spectrum Disorder (ASD) and Special Educational Needs. More than 14,000 children
           have been engaged with our research by creating Minecraft clubs creating Minecraft
           ‘worlds’ linked to research, including GRAHAM’s world on coral reef conservation and
           BARLOW’s world on fires in tropical forests. In 2019 alone, we ran sessions for 3968
           children in 63 schools across the UK. The work has resulted in six peer-reviewed papers
           and received external funding, for example from NERC and the Linnaean Society.
          Led by SURRIDGE, LEC has designed and delivered a series of Outreach and
           Engagement activities based on research within the department. Combining on-
           campus and remote activities that predominantly target Year 9 to Year 13 students, this
           work supports the University’s Widening Participation strategy and seeks to increase
           access to higher education for under-represented students. These activities include
           Environment Summer Schools (e.g. drawing on research of GRAHAM and LUNDGREN);
           STEM Taster Days (e.g. drawing on research of JAMES and TUFFEN); and Research in
           a Box activities (drawing on collaboration between LEC and UK-CEH and on research from
           WHITTLE). To date, these activities have engaged 55 schools and have led to emerging
           collaborations between LEC and learned societies, including the Royal Geographical
           Society.
                                                                                                    Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


          The Sex & Bugs & Rock ‘n Roll roadshow has been a regular feature of Glastonbury
           Festival (2015-) and at other public events around the UK (2013-), engaging over 20,000
           visitors in our ecological research, including forest ecosystem interactions (SAYER), dung
           beetle ecosystem function (MENENDEZ, BARLOW) pollinator diversity and extinction risk
           (MENENDEZ, WILBY, WILSON).

We recognise that translating our academic findings into more accessible forms and
promoting these to both traditional and emerging media is critical to impact and agenda
setting. In addition to the University press office, we employ a BAFTA winning journalist, to
‘hunt out’ and write stories about our research. Our media ‘process’ is outlined in Figure 10.
This process has led to experts from LEC receiving extensive coverage for their research findings,
                                                    giving more than 65 TV interviews from
    Research        Blog or news      Social media  22% of staff with an estimated reach of
     finding           release         promotion    172,533,000 and at least 190 radio
                                                    interviews from 48% of staff with an
                                                    estimated reach of 121,233,000, including
                                                    >30 on BBC national radio.
                        TV/radio/print     Republished
                                                   For example, MAHER’s research into
                          coverage           online
                                                   magnetic nanoparticle pollutants entering the
                                                   human brain generated media interviews for
 Figure 10 . The LEC media process                 the BBC News at Ten, BBC World Service,
                                                   Radio 4, Radio 5, all major broadsheet
newspapers, CNN and many others with an estimated reach of 100 million people. GRAHAM was
interviewed about coral bleaching research on BBC Breakfast, Reuters, the BBC News Channel,
BBC Radio 4’s Today Programme and many others with a combined reach of more than
21,800,000.
Alongside this, LEC academics have also used their expertise to comment on stories within
the daily news agenda. During the build-up to the 2019 General Election, WILLIS gave multiple
interviews about climate change and political parties’ climate policies on BBC One and Channel 4
(where she was part of a panel of experts in the Channel 4 leaders’ debate) as well as BBC Radio
Five Live, BBC Radio 4’s Today Programme and BBC Radio 4’s Six O’ Clock News, with a
combined reach of more than 32 million. BERNERS-LEE’s expertise on carbon footprinting led to
an appearance on Sir David Attenborough’s BBC One documentary Climate Change – the Facts,
Horizon, the BBC’s World Business report and Radio 4’s Beyond Today amongst others.
LEC makes extensive use of social media to promote research to a wider audience. BIGGER
and NEIMARK’s blog article in The Conversation, based on their paper on the Environmental
Impact of the US military, has been tweeted 17,000+ times and shared 186,000 times on
Facebook with the 5th highest altmetric of any Conversation article. The original paper has the
highest altmetric score of any paper published in the Transactions of the Institute of British
Geographers.

4.3       Discipline sustainability and support for and exemplars of interdisciplinary research
LEC has taken leadership in supporting key disciplines that are under pressure. Soil Science
is a case in point. Rather than lead a single institute bid to NERC for the Soil Science CDT, in 2015
LEC masterminded a bid from eight key Soil Science active UK Universities and Institutes. This
resulted in a highly integrated CDT, which has trained 39 students, over three cohorts, in
multidisciplinary Soil Science, helping to sustain and develop a discipline key to food production
and environmental quality.
We have promoted interdisciplinarity by creating five research challenges (section 1.3.1) and by
promoting interactions between Research Groups to develop interdisciplinary research ideas.
Exemplars include: our Tropical Futures Research Challenge leading a high profile paper on ‘the

                                                                                                  Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


future of hyperdiverse tropical ecosystems’ with seven of the 17 authors being from LEC, drawn
from the Ecology, Political Ecology and Atmosphere Research Groups; work addressing the
Catchment Science Research Challenge, highlighting the major agricultural changes required to
mitigate phosphorus pollution under climate change, brought together 10 LEC authors from the
Environmental Chemistry, Water Science, Soil Plant Land Systems Research Groups.
Recognising a lack of an international platform in Political Ecology for sharing the latest
developments and facilitating the cross fertilization of ideas, in 2015 CHILDS and NEIMARK at
LEC, together with seven globally leading Political Ecology research institutions, founded the
POLLEN network. The network is an umbrella organization of political ecology researchers,
groups, projects, activist, civil society and political groups and has in excess of 500 ‘nodes’ across
the globe (Figure 11).




 Figure 11. The globally significant Political Ecology POLLEN network has grown from eight to
 500 nodes (multicoloured markers) in just four years.

4.4   Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base including
      Esteem indicators since REF2014
The following provides indicators of LEC staff members’ far-reaching influence on, contributions to,
and recognition by the broader research community (Table 7).
LEC staff have received prestigious awards and medals, including a Fellowship of the Royal
Society for BEVEN recognising his hydrological research. He joins LONG, the Department’s
other FRS, who was elected a Member of the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) of the
USA and awarded a Fellowship of the American Academy for the Advancement of Sciences
(AAAS) for his work on photosynthesis. HEATHWAITE was awarded a CBE in 2018 for her
services to scientific research and scientific advice to government. JONES was awarded the
American Chemical Society Award for Creative Advances in Environmental Science and
Technology. HEATHWAITE and TOULMIN were elected Fellows of the Royal Society of
Edinburgh, ATKINSON to the Learned Society of Wales and WALKER to the Academy of
Social Sciences. PAUL was presented with an award from UNEP for outstanding service as a co-
chair within the Montreal Protocol process and M.PARRY was presented with China National
Friendship Award by Vice Premier Ma Kai. LONG (2006-20), GRAHAM (2016-20) and RUFINO
(2019) were named as highly cited researchers by Clarivate Analytics. HICKS is co-ordinating
lead author for ‘Sustainable Use’ for the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity
and Ecosystem Services. BARKER’s contribution to freshwater science was honoured with the
                                                                                              Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


naming of a new species of diatom ‘Afrocymbella barkeri’, while S.KEITH’s significant
contributions to understanding and protecting the coral reef was honoured by naming ‘Cyphastrea
salae’ after her.
Most staff perform editorial roles, including 11 Editor-in-Chief positions (13% of academic staff), in
disciplines ranging from Soil Science, Hydrology, Energy, Environmental Chemistry, Political
Ecology, Applied Ecology, Plant Science and Food Security.
LEC staff give large numbers of invited (341) and keynote talks (172) at international conferences
and present their work to Government (54) and International bodies (54). They chair and sit on
UKRI (102) and International grant panels (61).


              Table 7. LEC Esteem indictors (census date 31/7/20)
              Awards
                               Learned society awards                            16
                               Named medals                                      5
                               Fellowships                                       15
                               Honorary membership of learned societies or       5
                               degrees
                               CBE                                               1
                               Other awards                                      10
              Invited talks
                           Keynote conference talks                              172
                           Invited conference talks                              341
                           Invited talks to government e.g. Defra,               54
                           Select committee
                           Invited talks to International bodies e.g.            54
                           UNEP, IPCC
              Research funding committees
                           UKRI                                                  102
                           EU and international                                  61
              Editorial
                           Editor in Chief                                       11
                           Associate Editor                                      56
              Patents      Awarded                                               4
                           In progress                                           6
              Outside      Board member/trustee learned society                  7
              influence
                           Non-executive director                                3
                           Charity trustee                                       8




                                                                                              Page 31
