Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Institution: Newcastle University


  Unit of Assessment: 6 Agriculture, Veterinary and Food Science


  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

  1.1 Overview: Agriculture and Food Science (AFS) at Newcastle sits within the School of
      Natural and Environmental Sciences (SNES), in the Faculty of Science, Agriculture and
      Engineering (SAgE). SNES is the third largest academic unit within the University, with a
      diverse community of 135 academic staff, 2,045 students and an annual turnover of
      £35million. Formed in 2017, SNES encompasses the former Schools of Agriculture, Food
      and Rural Development; Biology; Chemistry; Earth Sciences; and Marine Science.
      Research is structured through four areas of expertise, each with its own directorate, which
      broadly align to the REF UoAs. AFS resides within the BioEconomy directorate, with
      research staff and PGRs managed through academic groups. Crop production and animal
      science research and teaching are supported by two research farms with a dedicated farm
      director.
       Fundamental bioscience in AFS is campus-based in the Agriculture and Devonshire
      buildings. Food research is predominantly focussed around consumption relating to food-
      and agri-business and consumer behaviour and includes a sensory testing suite and
      experimental kitchen, to conduct sensory and dietary interventions. AFS’s expertise in
      applied social sciences lies within the Centre for Rural Economy (CRE), a cross faculty
      research centre and includes one of the most significant groupings of rural social scientists
      in Europe (Queen’s Anniversary Prize for Higher and Further Education).

  1.2 Research objectives during the REF2021 period. AFS REF2014 strategy followed the
      University’s Societal Challenge Theme of Sustainability, addressing the development and
      integration of science and technologies to increase resource use efficiency in ethical food
      provision. Initiatives to revitalize and invest in AFS began with the appointment of new
      management and a major external review in 2015. Since 2014 investment in AFS increased
      by 15.8 FTE of new staff to build critical mass in key areas, leading to increased research
      income (>50%), PhD students (>45%), and a qualitative/quantitative improvement in
      outputs.

      A key area for investment continues to be precision agriculture, with a focus on
      understanding the underpinning science and building capacity in environmental and
      agribusiness research linked to food production. AFS at Newcastle has aligned research
      outputs to the needs of industry and society, and in 2015 was selected as the academic
      partner for the newly formed Fera Science Ltd., resulting in the formation of the joint Institute
      for Agrifood Research and Innovation (IAFRI). AFS are founding partners (2016) of two
      national agritechnology centres, Centre for Crop Health and Protection (CHaP) and Centre
      for Innovation and Excellence in Livestock (CIEL) as well as the N8 Universities £16 million
      Agrifood Resilience Catalyst award funded by Hefce/OfS (2015). AFS social sciences are
      sought by national (Defra, FSA, Scottish Gov) and International (EU, EFSA, UN)
      government in setting policy relating to food safety and the socioeconomics and
      environmental impacts of farming.

  1.3 Interdisciplinarity and partnering: AFS research has the objective of supporting the
      production of safe and nutritious food within a sustainable and resilient food system. This is
      achieved through externally-facing partnerships, by conducting research which spans
      across scales from molecules to entire ecosystems, and from the fundamental science to
      policy formation. The large and diverse academic base has delivered impactful solutions
      across industries, Government, NGOs and the wider agrifood community (Figure 1). The
      formation of IAFRI in 2015 has been particularly formative, allowing AFS at Newcastle to
      diversify its routes to impact across the agri-food sector.

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




  Figure 1. Research Intensity. Research themes within UoA6 (denoted in colour) and their relationship with
  major funders and collaborating institutions (denoted in grey). Data from 2014-2020 are presented from a
  topic model, with the width of each link indicating relative level of activity.

  1.4 Unit structure and governance: AFS returns 41 independent research-active staff to
      UoA6. The AFS research community comprises 9 Professors, 2 Readers, 20 Senior
      Lecturers, and 10 Lecturers. Four Senior Lecturers are joint IAFRI appointments, funded
      with Fera (Total 36.8 FTE). We also return outputs from 1 Lecturer, 1 Senior Lecturer, 1
      Professor, and 2 Emeritus Professors who have left during this REF period. AFS also
      comprises 11 lecturers dedicated to Teaching and Scholarship and a research community
      that includes 48 Post-Doctoral Researchers, 284 postgraduate research students, and 34
      Technicians (census 2020).

      The SNES management structure is designed to facilitate interdisciplinary research and
      training. All academics, PDRAs and PGRs are managed through their primary membership
      to an Academic Group, led by experienced, research-active academics. Secondary group

                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     affiliations are encouraged to foster cross-disciplinary working. Group leads report to a
     Director of Expertise (DoE), with oversight of research and related training within broad
     solution-focussed School Directorates (BioEconomy, UoA 6; Ecosystems, UoA 7; Applied
     Social Sciences, UoAs 6/13; Chemistry, UoA 8). The DoE has responsibility for managing
     both research and the delivery of related teaching. This activity is co-ordinated across the
     Directorates through a school research & innovation committee, with the group leads being
     supported by the School Executive Board through membership of the School Management
     Group.

     The BioEconomy directorate draws together the skills base in social, agricultural and
     biological sciences, promoting interdisciplinarity through collaborative grant applications and
     multiple authored outputs (Figure 2).




                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




  Figure 2. SNES School research themes (grey topics in the top section) and their relationship to the
  School structure (denoted in colour). Data are presented from a topic model using publication outputs
  2014-2020, with the width of each link indicating relative level of activity. Theme contributions are shown
  by (a) School Directorates of Expertise; (b) Academic Groups showing only staff returned to UoA6.


      The four SNES DoEs jointly develop and deliver School objectives through their
      representation on the School Executive Board and bi-monthly meetings of the School and
      Faculty Research and Innovation Committee. University-wide interactions are facilitated by
      the Newcastle University Centres of Research Excellence (NUCoREs), with “Healthier
      Lives” and “Climate & Environmental Resilience” being particularly relevant to AFS
      researchers. Partnerships with industry and overseas institutions are supported by the
      business development team and International Office respectively, with the UN SDGs being
      a prioritised theme for collaboration. The breadth of interdisciplinary working across the
      school is illustrated using the chord diagram derived from topic modelling of research
      outputs (Figure 2).

  1.5 Research Strategy: AFS scientific and impact goals are to build capacity in world-class agri-
      food research, through close working with government, industry and the wider community.
      AFS research strategy is based on three cross-cutting themes:


                                                                                                       Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     (i) Resilient and efficient agri-food production: Improving the productivity and health of
     crops and livestock through precision agriculture and the application of smart surveillance
     systems.
     (ii) Sustainable agro-ecological systems: Managing natural capital to provide sustainable
     primary production and ecosystem services.
     (iii) Agri-food system governance and food safety: Understanding behaviours and
     interactions within agri-food systems and the role of evidence-based policy mechanisms in
     enhancing the sustainability, resilience and safety of food production.


  1.6 Research structure: AFS research spans three cross-cutting themes.
   Cross-Cutting     UoA6 Academic Groups: Strategic Aim, Achievements and Future
       Research          Vision
       Themes

   Resilient &       The Animal Sciences (AS) group (Asher, Beard, Boswell, Butler,
      Efficient      Chaudhry, Guy, Leach, Velazquez) use precision methods and
      Agri-Food      informatics to address global challenges in the welfare, health and
      Production     physiology of livestock, laboratory and companion animals. The AS group
                     overlaps with APS (see below), with Butler and Chaudhry members of
                     both. In the REF2021 period, the group has expanded with the
                     appointment of Asher (precision livestock technologies) and Velazquez
                     (reproductive physiology).

                      Asher, Leach are Category A members of the CIEL agritech centre, and
                     the Centre for Digital Innovation Applied to our Livestock (C-DIAL) facility
                     at the Cockle Park research farm. C-DIAL utilises sensor-based,
                     automated imaging and audio technologies to monitor performance, health
                     and welfare of livestock. C-DIAL also houses a large animal gait facility
                     with state-of-the-art motion capture technology, climate controlled, HO-
                     licensed livestock facilities. Asher’s use of automated sensors has led to
                     the commercialisation of technology linked to animal welfare monitoring.
                     Asher also operates the world’s only mobile canine research unit. Access
                     to facilities in the Comparative Biology Centre, underpins research into
                     improving the welfare of laboratory and companion animals (Leach,
                     Flecknell see Impact Case Study [ICS]), which have resulted in
                     improvements in pain management of laboratory and companion animals
                     through veterinary practice at an international level. Research with Noble
                     Foods Ltd & DSM UK Ltd., has led to the development of ‘Sunshine Eggs’
                     enriched with Vit D (see ICS; Hill, Kyriazakis, Hubbard), accounting for
                     60% growth in the free-range egg market. In collaboration with Carrs-
                     Billington, Chaudhry was involved in the development of Crystalyx, as a
                     supplement for ruminant diets and working with LanXESS (Virkon
                     products) and has developed commercial alternatives to antibiotics to
                     reduce disease in chickens.

                      Future strategic priorities are focussed on maximising animal welfare in
                     intensive production system and growing capability in precision livestock
                     management through developing new digital technologies.

                     The Plant and Microbial Biology (PMB) comprises 19 members returned
                     to UoAs 5, 6, 7 & 8, with Andriotis, Audsley, Borland, Edwards.M,
                     Gatehouse, Howard, Kapralov, Willats, Wakefield retuned to UoA6.
                     Plant science research centres on understanding fundamental biological
                     processes that underpin crop productivity. Strengths lie in carbohydrate
                     metabolism (Andriotis, Willats), photosynthesis (Kapralov) and links to
                     water use efficiency (Borland), with long-term funding from the US

                                                                                          Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                     Department of Energy. Wakefield, who has brought a biocontrol agent to
                     market, and Audsley (both IAFRI) bring additional expertise in biopesticide
                     development and delivery to well-established programmes manipulating
                     plant-pest interactions and in biotechnology applied to insect-pest control
                     (Gatehouse, Edwards.M; H2020-EcoStack; BBSRC-LINK). Expertise in
                     microbiology focuses on biotechnological applications for sensors and
                     diagnostics (Howard, Willats), utilizing novel approaches including
                     synthetic biology, with application to plant disease surveillance. These
                     have influenced policy development in Defra (Plant Health), EU
                     commission and the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA). Borland,
                     Kapralov and Andriotis are leading research in plant cell biology that
                     underpins productivity traits. The appointment of Willats and his
                     development of high-throughput microarrays based glycomics technology,
                     has led to the development of novel diagnostic approaches for plant and
                     soil health.

                     Future research will build synergies between microbiology and plant
                     sciences in the use of bioinoculants to manipulate the microbiome to
                     enhance crop resilience to climate change, productivity and disease
                     tolerance. Biotechnology programs will focus on bioprospecting for
                     veterinary medicine discovery and developing diagnostic tools and novel
                     smart materials for applications in crop disease, vector detection and
                     assessing food quality and authenticity.

                     The Agricultural Production Systems (APS) group (Bilsborrow,
                     Boonham, Butler, Cooper, Edwards.R, Franks, George, Prashar)
                     focuses on integrated farm management in sustainable and low input
                     arable and pasture production, making extensive use of the two research
                     farms. The group and research farms have undergone a major realignment
                     in interests. Low input agriculture (EU-Ecobreed) (Bilsborrow), soil health
                     (Cooper) and sustainable ruminant nutrition through pasture management
                     (SusCatt) (Butler) build on the long-term factorial QLIF experiment
                     established by the Nafferton Ecological Farming Group (Leifert). George
                     brings expertise in integrated pest management and links to the CHaP
                     agritechnology centre, extending capability in arable farming. George
                     leads the NU Farms Academic Strategy Group working alongside new
                     farm director (Standen) to merge commercial operation with research
                     themes. The farms are also used as a business performance resource
                     relating economics to changes in management practice (Areal, Franks).
                     A new theme supporting sustainable input management, with significant
                     crossover with PMB (Willats/Howard), is the development of in-field
                     diagnostics to generate real-time data to better guide pathogen/pest/weed
                     control. Based on molecular diagnostics (Boonham, Edwards.R) and
                     remote imaging (Prashar), work has led to early identification of disease
                     (Innovate UK-InFarm 2.0) in vertical farming systems (Boonham/Prashar)
                     and resistance status to fungicides (Boonham), and herbicides (BBSRC-
                     Lola) (Edwards.R). The work of this group has resulted in the
                     commercialisation of in-field diagnostics (BReD, MoLogic) for weed
                     control. At the international level, field diagnostics work extends to virus
                     disease problems (BBSRC-CONNECTED) in sub-Saharan Africa
                     (Boonham) and herbicide resistance detection in Australia and Canada
                     (Edwards.R).

                     Future research will focus on low input farming systems, (including
                     integration with other groups); carbon impact of crop production; improving
                     ruminant productivity and meat/milk quality through controlled pasture
                     nutrition (EOPS), diagnostics and sensors (PMB) and the interface of

                                                                                          Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                     farming and the environment (IAFRI/Ecology). The research farms will be
                     developed as an industry demonstration platform (Farm Zero) to
                     investigate how farming systems will meet the strategic needs of UK
                     agriculture, environment and NetZero policies over the next 25 years.

   Sustainable       Expertise in this theme is drawn from the Ecology (Cooper, Evans,
      agro-          Franks, George, Port, Sanderson, Whittingham), Modelling, Evidence
      ecological     and Policy (Stewart, Budge) and Applied Social Science (Reed)
      systems        academic groups, reflecting their multidisciplinary research interests. The
                     appointments of Evans, Budge and Reed have all been made in the
                     REF2021 audit period.

                     Research focuses on investigating the interactions between natural
                     biodiversity in the landscape and agriculture and is based on the University
                     farms where there is opportunity to integrate ecological research with
                     agricultural practice. Notably, the 120-year old Palace Leas experiment
                     provides a unique resource for investigating ecosystem functioning of the
                     above and below ground flora and fauna.

                     Research is geared to landscape stakeholders, IPBES, Defra, Scottish
                     Government, UNEP and UNCCD with direct impact on policy and is
                     grouped in two major themes:
                     i) Investigating agro-ecosystem function and the interactions between
                     different components of biodiversity and agricultural practice. Focus is on
                     pollination biology (Budge, Evans); natural pest control (George) and the
                     role of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in plant nutrient dynamics (Cooper).
                     The group use biomolecular approaches to investigate system functioning
                     using bar coding, e-DNA to generate data in evaluating hypotheses of
                     ecosystem functioning.
                     ii) Investigating the impacts of management on ecosystem services in
                     agricultural systems. Budge researches bee disease and the role of
                     pollinator sources on bee health whilst Whittingham seeks to quantify
                     ecosystem services provided by farmland bird species. Port and
                     Sanderson investigate invertebrate systems. Research is directed at
                     studying and quantifying the delivery of ecosystem services within
                     multifunctional landscapes (Whittingham, George, Reed, Evans),
                     including systems level e.g. farmland ecological networks (Evans,
                     Franks).

                     The research outputs have been used in policy making including: the
                     design and implementation of the UK’s first ever and world-leading private-
                     public Payment for Ecosystem Service scheme to restore damaged
                     peatlands (Whittingham, Reed; ICS) and sustainable use of forests in
                     Nepal (Whittingham).

                     Future work will focus on maximizing ecosystem services across a range
                     of metrics (e.g. achieving zero carbon farming while enhancing the
                     environment using the university farms as demonstration platforms) using
                     digital technology for real time environmental monitoring as developed by
                     the AS group.

   Agri-food         This theme has two foci: Resilient Food Systems and Food Safety and
       System        Policy (Areal, Frewer, Hubbard, Jones, Kuznesof, Panzone, Reed,
       Governance    Souza-Monteiro). Transdisciplinary research spans primary production
       and Safety    through businesses in the supply chain to the end-consumer. They include
                     consumer behaviour and quality and safety attributes of food. The group
                     uses co-production and knowledge exchange with stakeholders, including

                                                                                          Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                     partnerships with regional, national and international collaborators (e.g.
                     National Centre for Innovation and Rural Economy and United Nations’
                     Global Peatlands Initiative, Reed). The group have leading roles in the N8
                     Universities Agri-resilience initiative, and the N8 policy hub in addition to
                     active input to NU’s Policy Academy and the Centre for Rural Economy
                     (CRE). Hubbard researches future economic performance of UK
                     agriculture under a range of post-Brexit scenarios whilst Shortall analyses
                     the role of under-represented groups in farming; ICS). The outputs inform
                     policy makers (Defra, the Scottish Government, the Welsh Assembly and
                     DAERA), National Farmers Union and AHDB to inform the design of future
                     agricultural support mechanisms.

                     Research into Food Production Systems addresses barriers to
                     diversification of aquaculture (Panzone); understanding conflict and
                     cooperation in the supply of sustainable food (Souza-Monteiro); consumer
                     perspectives of farm animal welfare and animal production diseases
                     (Frewer); and Resilient Dairy Landscapes (Reed). Outputs from these
                     projects have influenced EU and UK policy on sustainable cropping
                     systems. Kuznesof has evaluated interactions between food production,
                     the environment and the valuation of ecosystem services in the water,
                     energy and food nexus, while the work of Frewer, Whittingham, Reed,
                     George, Evans has focussed on Upland farmed landscapes e.g. Glen
                     Finglas the largest upland grazing area in Europe. These projects deliver
                     evidence to public and private sectors including Defra, and DG-AGRI on
                     future policies.

                     Frewer and Jones collaborate with China aimed at understanding
                     stakeholder and consumer perspectives on technology innovation for
                     improved food safety and quality. They investigate the adoption of
                     precision agriculture in China and the identification of societal concerns
                     linked to the virome in agriculture and food authenticity (Frewer,
                     Kuznesof). Digital technologies are being explored to aid healthy
                     consumer choices (Souza Monteiro), whilst virtual supermarket platforms
                     are used to investigate how information on environmental impact provided
                     in retail spaces impacts on consumer choices (Panzone).

                     Future research focuses on developing models for investigating structure
                     in rural systems, and their application to policy scenarios and how food
                     systems can deliver equitable and healthier diets whilst reducing
                     Greenhouse Gas emissions. Behavioural drivers in farmers, food-
                     business-managers and consumers will be studied in developing improved
                     sustainability indicators for land management practices supporting post-
                     Brexit “payment by results”, as well as climate-change mitigation.

                      Food Safety & Policy is a multidisciplinary sub-theme delivered by
                     members of ASSG (Frewer) and the Modelling, Evidence and Policy
                     group (O’ Brien, Rushton, Shirley). Research is focused on
                     understanding the underlying biological processes determining the
                     epidemiology of food borne disease, spanning the molecular bases of
                     pathogenesis, host-pathogen interactions and the epidemiology of disease
                     in animal and human populations. Modelling is used to predict
                     epidemiological processes across spatial and temporal scales, to develop
                     strategies for enhancing food safety through mitigating pathogen spread.
                     In the REF2021 period work focussed on Campylobacter (Rushton,
                     Shirley), with research in the underlying mechanisms of pathogenesis,
                     host responses as well as the environmental and social ecology of human
                     infections. The group’s work has contributed to the research agenda and

                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                       strategy of the Food Standards Agency (FSA) and includes collaborators
                       at Liverpool, Leicester, UEA, Manchester, Lancaster, Swansea and
                       Aberdeen, as well as Nercita and CAAS in China. This network of
                       collaborations has been further strengthened by the recent appointment of
                       medical epidemiologist O’Brien through an endowed Chair funded by the
                       Elizabeth Creak Charitable Trust. In addition to strengthening links with
                       FSA, this new post aligns to the interests of the AS and APS groups in
                       livestock health, with its research focus on pathogens such as
                       Campylobacter entering the food chain on the farm. The work further links
                       to expertise of members of ASSG in studying behaviours in farmers that
                       have a major role in determining pathogen infection of livestock through
                       management practices. Social science interests in food safety through
                       perceptions of risk across the food chain and to consumers (Frewer,
                       Kuznesof) include the use of citizen science and expert elicitation in
                       emerging food risk identification and extend to responses to food integrity.

                       Food safety research will extend the modelling of immunological
                       interaction between livestock, pathogens and an ageing and immune-
                       compromised human population. We will research risk mitigation in
                       existing and emerging pathogens and the consequences of societal
                       adoption of technological innovations in mitigating risk in food safety.


  1.7 Research Vision: AFS continues to grow by investing in the underpinning natural and social
      sciences that support a growing reputation in responding to the translational research needs
      of the agrifood sector. Interdisciplinary links with computer science, engineering in the SAgE
      faculty and with the NUCoRE “Healthier Lives”, hosted in the Faculty of Medical Sciences
      (FMS) will be supported through joint appointments in digital technologies, precision
      agriculture and food technology, respectively. In response to the institutional-level plan of
      growing research intensity and power (35% increase in research income over 5 years; 20%
      increase in researcher capacity over 10 years), SNES will deploy a two-pronged approach to
      build strengths in AFS. Firstly, the development of staff in post, especially the recently
      appointed ECRs, as successful researchers will be targeted through collaborative working,
      grant writing skills development and an active sabbatical programme. Secondly, a series of
      staff appointments are planned at mid-career level. Both elements of the staffing plan will
      increase the size of the future professoriat in response to staff retirements post-2021. This
      will include sourcing additional external sponsorship for key Chair and advanced fellowships
      building on the recent successes of attracting funding from the Elizabeth Creak Charitable
      Trust, the John Oldacre Foundation and the Duke of Northumberland bequest. Specific
      growth areas building on the themes above (see Cross-Cutting Research Themes) and
      responding to the future needs of the agrifood sector include:
      - Agri-technology in crop production: Increased capability in both fundamental sciences
      and translational platforms in crop-related biotechnology and precision agriculture to further
      develop arable sustainable production systems needed for future farming.
      - Precision digital technologies applied to animals: Increased capability responding to
      the rapid changes in policy and practice in animal health, nutrition, welfare and productivity
      anticipated in the coming decade.
      - Agro-ecology: Responding to the global needs of farming for the environment,
      expanding the use of the University farms as demonstration platforms for sustainable
      agriculture and extending research capability in the governance of ecosystem services in
      agri-food systems, so embracing diversity to achieve production.
       - Food and health: Building on strengths in food safety to encompass the social science
      of valorizing food based on provenance, quality and dietary health. Furthermore, capacity in
      nutritional composition and food safety will be developed jointly through IAFRI and Fera
      Science Ltd., enabling closer links with HNRC researchers.



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      In each case, academic appointments to these areas will continue to be supported by
      investments in instrumentation and support staff, to facilitate the effective establishment of
      their research. With the realisation that staff performance is under-pinned by research
      culture the School will support:
      • Staff enablement, equipping staff and students at all career stages with the training in the
      skills needed for research and development in the academic, commercial, public and
      voluntary sectors.
      • Investment in infrastructure both on campus and at the farms, by continually reviewing
      and strategically investing in equipment and facilities that enable staff to work across
      academic boundaries and respond to funding opportunities.
      • Influence national and international research agendas using group and Personal
      Development Reviews (PDRs) to encourage staff to apply for memberships of national and
      international programmes steering committees, scientific working groups, advisory
      committees, secondments and policy bodies relevant to AFS.
      • Strategic partnering. Enhancing external connectivity, visibility and knowledge exchange
      by encouraging staff to initiate new interdisciplinary partnerships nationally and
      internationally, supported through central budgets strategically managed at Directorate and
      Academic Group levels.
      • Expanding Doctoral Training through collaborative networking with industry (IAFRI) and
      by increasing our engagement with UKRI (e.g. through recent and new DTP awards, e.g.
      NDL BBSRCDTP3).

  1.8 Research Culture, Integrity, and Ethics: The ethos of our research culture is built on the
      pillars of creativity, transparency, multidisciplinarity and collaboration. It is supported by
      community-building events, PGR and PDRA forums, biannual SNES symposia and seminar
      series overseen by a dedicated Associate Director of Research Culture (Boonham).
      Research integrity is governed through: (1) compliance with the Home Office and the ethical
      and welfare standards that are applied to animals used in research through NU Animal
      Welfare and Ethical Review Board; (2) a mandatory requirement for ethical approval for all
      research involving humans subjects; and (3) compliance with Defra and HSE regulations
      with work involving licenced/contained organisms (e.g. exotic pests, pathogens and GMOs).
      All researchers are required to comply with the University Code of Good Practice in
      Research, which codifies expectations relating to integrity, conduct and professional
      standards. Health and Safety is embedded in our research-culture with PIs reporting to
      DoEs who sit on both the School H&S and Executive Committees. The Chair of H&S sits on
      Faculty H&S.

      Open access of all published work is facilitated via an on-line publications management
      system (MyImpact) in which the accepted manuscript in its final submitted form is openly
      accessible. Data management is mandated through the use of the Research Data Service,
      an institution-level, open data repository for documenting, archiving and publishing datasets.
      The repository supports data management plans for projects ensuring archived data are
      FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Re-useable) and retained for at least 10
      years in an openly accessible format.

  2. People

  2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
      Staff appointments are directed by strategic objectives defined by the School. Over the
      REF2021 period, twenty-two staff have been appointed, replacing those who have
      left/retired increasing the UoA6 FTE return from 21.0 in REF2014 to 36.8, building research
      capacity across the themes:
     • Resilient and Efficient Agri-Food Production: 13 members of staff appointed: Asher (SL,
          Animal welfare, 2018); Audsley (IAFRI SL, Plant-insect interactions, 2018); Boonham
          (Professor Applied Crop Science, 2015); Budge (Professor Bee Health, 2015);

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Edwards.R (Professor Crop Protection, 2014); Howard (SL, Plant & Microbial Sciences,
         2015); Prashar (L, 2016); Andriotis (L/ECR, Metabolic Biochemistry, 2017); Kaprolov
         (SL, Genome Editing, 2017); McInness (Fellow/ECR, 2019); Willats (Professor
         Molecular Agri-Diagostics; 2016); Wakefield (IAFRI SL, Plant insect interactions, 2019);
         Velasquez (L, Animal Sci, 2015).
     •   Agro-ecology: 2 members of staff appointed: Evans (Reader Network ecology, 2016),
         George (Reader Precision agronomy, 2019).
     •   Agri-Food Systems Governance and Safety: 7 members of staff appointed:
         O’Brien (Professor Translational Agritechnology, 2019); Reed (Professor Socio-
         Technical Innovation; 2016); De Souza-Monteiro (SL, Agri-Business Management,
         2014); Areal (SL, Agricultural economics, 2019); Panzone (L, Consumer behaviour,
         2014); Jones (IAFRI SL, Environmental economics, 2015), Shirley (L, Modelling, 2017).

     Academic Leadership: Senior appointments made in the REF2021 period have
     strengthened leadership in AFS, with Edwards.R appointed as Head of School,
     Gatehouse/ O’Brien as Directors of Expertise and Budge, Boonham and Howard as
     group leads.

     Staff Development: NU’s Skills Academy supports researchers at all levels (see IES, 2.2.5)
     to develop research, management and leadership skills. Interaction with external
     businesses and government is supported by the Faculty HEIF Business Engagement Fund.
     HEIF funding in AFS (15 @totalling £30k), have supported workshops, partnering events,
     seedcorn activities and business case preparation. Staff have also been supported in
     working on secondments into government (Defra), to support evidence gathering for policy.
     To support staff skills development during lockdown/home working, SNES has run Zoom
     “Masterclasses”, available to all researchers (PIs, RAs, PGRs) on topics including “Building
     consortia with government” (attended by ~50 academics, and leading to an RA gaining a
     collaboration with the Scottish government) and “Demystifying UKRI grant panels”, where
     senior staff shared their experiences of being on UKRI panels with ECRs.

     Promotions are awarded on defined performance criteria communicated to all staff, on a
     non-quota basis. Cases are made with the support of line managers and senior
     management. During the REF 2021 period 23 staff have been promoted: 3 to Professor
     (Asher, Evans, Finlayson); 9 to Senior Lecturer (Beard, Boswell, Cooper, Stewart,
     Hubbard, Kuznesof, Leach, Stewart, Panzone) and 11 to Lecturer (Adamson,
     Christensen, Collins, Douglas, Edwards.M, Hall, Parker, Peacock, Shirley, Simkin &
     Taybi).

     The Academic Group structure has underpinned a policy of ensuring that staff are able to
     take sabbatical leave on a rotational basis. Staff development is supported by annual 1:1
     PDRs that identify individual staff strengths through agreeing realistic, yet challenging,
     targets whilst identifying training needs through institutional courses in IP, grant-writing,
     science communication and outreach. The School operates peer review panels mirroring
     UKRI committees, providing critical feedback. Academic Groups support the development of
     colleagues at all career stages, with active mentorship of ECRs. SNES has implemented
     Academic Group PDRs, to enhance collaboration and devolve collective responsibility for
     performance delivery in research and teaching.

     Academics are allocated a personal budget, with additional strategic funds administered at
     Group Lead and DoE level for essential equipment purchase and maintenance, and support
     of collective activities with a focus on the research needs of ECRs, PDRAs and PGRs. AFS
     promotes joint appointments with industry and third sector organisations (TSOs) as
     evidenced by joint appointments of lecturing staff (Wakefield, Audsley, Jones, Donarski)
     with Fera Science Ltd and NU, and a sponsored lectureship by Proctor and Gamble
     (Jones). AFS make active use of the Knowledge Transfer Partnership scheme with active
     joint appointments with Coastal Grains (Bilsborrow, Borland) and P&G (Willats).


                                                                                         Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      New lecturers are required to study the Postgraduate Certificate in Advanced Studies in
      Academic Practice (NU’s Continuing Professional Development Scheme). They are
      allocated an academic mentor, given a start up funding package and are allocated a
      carefully designed and ramped allocation of duties in teaching and administration to help
      them establish and consolidate their research. Further, all new academic staff are given a
      travel budget and preferential access to funded PGR studentships.

  2.2 Postdoctoral Researchers are key to the School’s research culture and productivity and
      are full members of Academic Groups, with career progression monitored through PDR
      review. NU is committed to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
      Researchers and was one of the first to be awarded a HR Excellence in Research Award by
      Vitae in 2010 (renewed twice during this REF cycle). A PDRA network has been
      established, with peer mentorship facilitated by a postdoctoral society organised through the
      SAgE faculty. PDRA development is supported through a dedicated annual conference and
      workshops in grant-writing, teaching and science communication. All PDRAs are actively
      encouraged and financially supported to present their work both internally and at
      international conferences.

      The future five-year plan is to increase numbers of postdoctoral and Independent Fellows in
      the School, supported through the institutional NUACT scheme, which will act as a catalyst
      for attracting additional applications from national schemes funded by UKRI, charitable
      trusts (e.g.: John Oldacre Trust, McIness) and industry.


  2.3 Technical Support is organised at School level, with 34 staff (5 with PhD) providing support
      for researchers including centralised molecular and analytical facilities and maintenance of
      plant, insect and pathogen culturing facilities. Technical support also provides services in
      purchasing, safety, waste- disposal and building management. Five dedicated animal and
      crop technicians are based at the farms, farm staff also support researchers through the
      commercial operation of crop trials and the dairy and pig, and poultry units. Six technical
      staff are dedicated to teaching. IT support is provided by a central unit, with 3 University
      staff embedded within the School. Specialist bioinformatics support is provided by a
      dedicated unit: https://www.ncl.ac.uk/bsu/ together with access to the University HPC facility
      https://services.ncl.ac.uk/itservice/research/hpc/.

      NU is committed to the professional development of our technical teams, being a founder
      signatory of the national Technician Commitment. An active apprenticeship (Ashpool,
      Fortescue) and career development programme is in place overseen by a Training Co-
      ordinator to ensure succession planning and continuity. Staff development in acquiring new
      qualifications is supported (MBA; Bal & Whitaker) and has led to leadership roles e.g.
      Lamb, is now the SNES Safety Officer and Whitaker is responsible for all technical staff
      within the Faculty.

  2.4 Administrative Support for Research is provided by Professional Services (PS), a Faculty
      funded and managed team that supports all operational needs and teaching support. PS
      are grouped into specialised teams, facilitating support for multidisciplinary research and
      enhancing opportunities for the professional development of staff. Support for research is
      divided into Research and Impact, Project Support, Research Funding Development and
      Business Development. Specialist services include support for embedding impact and
      maximising the value of research outputs in policy, industrial innovation, sustainability and
      societal benefit. Intellectual Property (IP) from commercially linked work is regularly
      assessed by the business development team and protected by patent filing. All relationships
      with industrial partners are subject to detailed legal agreements as to disclosure and IP
      ownership.




                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  2.5 PGRs
      Doctoral training is overseen by a Doctoral College (see Ref5a 3.22), with bespoke
      training through 1+3, 3.5 year and part-time options. The AFS PGR community has
      increased over the present REF period by 45% (Table 1), through new CDTs and DTPs
      (Section 3) and ongoing collaboration with industrial partners (Fera, Tesco, P&G, KWS, CPI,
      Syngenta, Bayer, AIMES, AHDB). AFS also attracts high numbers of international students
      funded by their own governments/institutions. Our objective is to continue to increase PGR
      numbers, while enhancing the supportive, stimulating and multidisciplinary environment
      needed to support their development.


  Table 1: PhD students (FTE) during the current REF

           Year            2013/    2014/    2015/    2016/    2017/    2018/19     2019/20
                            14       15       16       17       18
   Total PhD students      72.71    81.06    87.72    97.61    99.78     104.09     102.95
          (FTE)

      PGR recruitment and progression: Applications to AFS for PGR positions have been
      buoyant over the REF2021 period with international students from the Global South
      sponsored and recruited to research projects through targeted seminar programmes
      (Shortall). PGRs have high completion rates (95%), in a supportive training environment
      with modules covering research skills, ethics and safety and maximising impact from
      research (Reed). There is a school-wide seminar programme. Each PGR student is
      assigned a primary and secondary supervisor. They attend Induction on commencing their
      studies, followed by a 80-credit PGR training support programme over the first two years.
      PGRs and their supervisory teams sign a Learning Agreement prior to Project Approval, that
      includes a detailed work plan with jointly agreed Training Needs Analysis Checklist. All
      students are assigned to a Progression Panel that provides additional pastoral support, with
      progress reports at 9, 21, 33 and 42 months managed electronically (e-portfolio) by the
      Postgraduate Director (Cooke). In addition to presenting at Faculty and School PG
      conferences, all students are funded to attend at least one international conference (>50 in
      REF2021 period) and take part in global workshops (e.g.: African Research Universities
      Alliance, Accra-Ghana, 2019). Opportunities are provided for outstanding students to
      receive fully funded training in overseas laboratories, with Professional Internships offered
      via the BBSRC-DTPs. AFS PGRs regularly take part in external competitions, including the
      prestigious International Genetically Engineered Machines (iGEM) competition (Howard),
      with SNES students winning a Gold award in 2019.

  2.6 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion: EDI is a core value of the University and SNES
      continues to embed an ethos of equality, inclusivity and mutual respect in all its activities.
      SNES is a diverse community (with 26 and 66 different nationalities across staffing and
      student categories, respectively) and our commitment to developing an inclusive and
      supportive environment was recognised when AFRD achieved an Athena SWAN Silver
      Award (November 2016 submission). The new School is pursuing a move from Bronze to
      Silver following restructuring.
      Leave and Flexible Working: UoA6 has seen formalised flexible working increase from 0%
      in 2014 to 14.6% in 2020. To support research, T&R staff can request teaching free days
      and consolidate teaching into one semester. A formalised policy to work from home was in
      place pre-COVID and we expect to offer increased flexibility in working patterns post-
      COVID. We have a revamped school-wide sabbatical policy that will be instigated following
      the end of lockdown whereby each group always has one member on sabbatical at any one
      time. Conference Attendance and Travel: Staff receive an annual £500 allocation into
      personal academic support accounts (ASAs) with an additional £1,000 per staff member into
      a central research group fund to support strategic initiatives which could be at an individual
      or group level. These funds are used for personal development and conference attendance.
      PGRs may attend at least one UK and one international conference. For attendees with

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      caring responsibilities, an additional fund has been provided. The provision of childcare
      facilities available for on-site participants at the International Designer Biology conference
      2019 hosted at Newcastle University has provided best practice guidelines for the wider
      University.
      Recruitment: All adverts have EDI statements, gender decoded text, diverse recruitment
      panels all with unconscious bias and EDI training. Remote interviews of applicants are used
      where appropriate. These processes were developed and piloted with our IAFRI PGR
      recruitment.
      Career Support: To support ECRs, teaching loads are low during their first year and
      probationary period; mentors and higher funding allowances are provided. Development
      needs are discussed at Annual PDRs. Sabbatical opportunities and University level
      mentoring are also available to all staff. The Academic Groups provide the forum for mid-
      career researchers with reduced research income to become actively involved in grant
      development and paper writing. Group-run ‘away days’ are used to ‘brain-storm’
      collaborative grants. Open competition for leadership positions available to lecturer grade
      has provided leadership opportunities. Within AFS, 2 female staff (Kuznesof, Hubbard)
      have been supported on the Aurora Programme (Advance HE’s leadership development
      programme for women). Staff attendance at personal development training (e.g. Skills in
      Public Speaking; H&S; Unconscious Bias; Leadership etc.) has increased >4-fold since
      REF2014.
      Promotion: The School has adopted a positive action approach identifying and
      encouraging staff to plan and apply for promotion (see 2.1). Since REF2014, 11F and 12M
      have been promoted. We are aware of the unequal impact of COVID on colleagues and
      plans are being discussed to ensure probation and promotion is not adversely impacted.
      The Unit also recognises and rewards staff for research and impact by providing
      discretionary awards and one-off payments (e.g. Gatehouse on receipt of her international
      award).
      Extended Leave: Return from extended leave, including for caring responsibilities, illness,
      maternity and parental leave are supported with flexible working opportunities. Academic
      staff can apply for up to £10k to support research through the Returners’ Support
      Programme, which is being extended to PS staff.
      Inclusivity: School EDI Committee has direct reporting lines to the School Executive Board
      where EDI is an agenda-standing item. EDI and unconscious-bias training is integrated into
      induction programmes.
      Wellbeing: To provide an environment where all staff and students have a sense of
      belonging, SNES has worked to improve parity of esteem between PS and academic staff,
      operates core-hours of 10am-4pm for meetings, encourages working within formal hours,
      discourages the sending of emails out of hours and supports flexible working. During
      COVID, ‘quiet Fridays’ were encouraged. An Employee Assistance Programmes provides
      24/7 support line for all staff and PGRs. For all academic staff, the move to working within
      disciplinary groups where research and teaching are discussed have increased a sense of
      belonging and work allocation models and teaching allocation groups have reduced staff
      with work over-commitments. These groupings, which all meet weekly, provide an ideal
      forum for supporting staff/students mental health. We will train mental health first aiders
      throughout SNES to work alongside first aiders.


  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

  3.1 Research Income Strategy: The focus over the REF2021 period has been to increase and
      diversify research income (Figure 3). Following restructuring, performance in teaching and
      research has become the responsibility of the Academic Groups, allowing the flexing of
      resources across the group to allow specific staff to focus on research. This has enabled
      AFS researchers to respond to major funding initiatives and build multidisciplinary networks.
      This policy has fostered greater collegiality and increased co-writing of project proposals,
      resulting in an overall increase of > 50% in income (Tables 2,3), and major funding
      successes notably:

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          •    N8 Agrifood Resilience Initiative (Edwards.R),
          •    BEIS agritech centre bids CHaP (Edwards.R, Boonham, George)
          •    CIEL (Asher)
          •    Elizabeth Creak Research Network (Edwards.R, O’Brien)
          •    EU H2020 on “EcoStacking” (Gatehouse, Edwards.M, Evans)
          •    New from 2020, National Innovation Centre for Rural Enterprise (Phillipson).




  Figure 3: Treemap showing diversity of expenditure in UoA6. Areas represent percentage of grants by
  funding source between 2014 – 2020.




  Table 2: Income Allocation

   2013/14          2014/15       2015/6        2016/17       2017/18        2018/19       2019/20
   2,685,645        3,301,874     3,234,622     3,738,668     3,886,009      3,653,263     3,679,828




                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Table 3: UoA6 Grants >£0.5m awarded & Patents over the REF cycle




  3.2 Doctoral Training Centres: The forming of IAFRI in 2015 was associated with the
      establishment of a doctoral training account, jointly funded by NU and Fera, which has
      supported 6 students p.a. each jointly supervised by staff from the two partner organizations
      over the last 5 years. The IAFRI agreement has recently (2020) been renewed along with
      the continuation of the doctoral training centre. In 2019, together with FMS, AFS
      researchers were awarded the 3rd successive BBSRC DTP “NLD DTP in BioSciences” with

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      the Universities of Durham and Liverpool and six industry partners (NU Co-I Gatehouse;
      £7.4m+matched funding). The DTP covers 5 intakes of students between 2020-2025 with a
      normal intake of 28 (20 standard, 8 CASE) 4-yr studentships/annum and additional
      studentships awarded in 2020-21. Each student is supervised by a member of academic
      staff from two partner universities, with 32 % of the total student cohort dedicated to the
      BBSRC theme in Agriculture and Food Security. AFS staff (Director Asher) also lead in the
      Leverhulme Trust Doctoral Training Programme in Behaviour Informatics (Asher; £1.05m)
      that supports 15 PhD studentships over 3 cohorts (5/ann.). AFS staff also contribute to the
      NERC ONE PLANET CDT (which provides a total of 13/year over 5 years, split between
      Newcastle and Northumbria), and the DTPs IAPATUS (NERC) and the NU EPSRC DTP.
      Finally, the School also hosts the ESRC NINE Doctoral training programme through CRE
      (Panzone).


  3.3 Infrastructure and facilities AFS on campus are housed in the Agriculture and Devonshire
      buildings, with resources such as the analytical suite in the adjacent Chemistry building.
      AFS infrastructure on campus includes a suite of crop growth rooms, an insectary (including
      a Defra-approved pest containment facility), soil processing and analytical equipment,
      fermentation suite for metabolic engineering, bioinformatics suite, a sensory laboratory and
      research kitchen for dietary trials. The research farms are located in the Tyne valley
      (Nafferton Farm, 314Ha) and at Morpeth (Cockle Park Farm 271Ha), with additional land at
      Ousten (207Ha). The farms are managed as a single commercial unit by recently appointed
      Director (Standen); both operate as mixed farming enterprises, with the dairy herd (320
      cows) operating at Nafferton and the pig (140 sows plus finishers) and poultry units at
      Cockle Park. Arable production is dominated by cereals and oilseed rape, with potatoes also
      grown at Nafferton. The farms regularly host crop trials and demonstration events. The
      farms operate within the top quartile of national productivity and are Red Tractor and Leaf
      registered. Specialist capabilities include contained and replicated hydrological plots
      (0.24Hax9) and the Palace Leas long-term (c1896) pasture experiment (Cockle Park) and
      the replicated factorial QLIF trial site (3.8Ha) at Nafferton.

      Infrastructure strategy and investment: AFS capabilities in infrastructure have seen
      significant expansion and reorganization during REF2021 with an investment of >£9.5m.
      Major areas of investment include: (i) the expansion of capabilities in precision agriculture at
      the research farms; (ii) improvements in Laboratory facilities and (iii) co-location of central
      research and support facilities in dedicated refurbished space.

      Investments in the research farms include £2m from the University for the development of
      laboratories, seminar facilities and a dedicated glasshouse at Cockle Park Farm (2014).
      Investment at Cockle Park followed in 2016, as part of the establishment of the
      agritechnology centres for which AFS researchers were founding partners; CHAP; £0.5m
      from BEIS + matched funding from NU) and CIEL (£0.75m from BEIS + matched funding
      from NU). CHaP funding founded a bespoke on-farm plant health agri-diagnostics facility
      supported by four mobile research labs deployed across the north of England. While the
      CIEL funding developed the world-class Centre for Digital Innovation Applied to Livestock
      (C-DIAL), a digital research facility to support animal welfare alongside a pig research unit
      with NEDAP feeders was established (£958k). A further funding of £0.4m from CIEL was
      awarded in 2018 to further develop digital and hyperspectral imaging technologies (Total
      CIEL £3.3m).

      Investments on campus. The physical infrastructure supporting AFS has seen University
      investment of £2.8m in the Devonshire Building as an integral part of a ‘BioSystems Science
      and Engineering’ project. While the Agriculture Building saw investment of £650k on open
      office and meeting rooms (2014) and £100k on lab and research office refurbishment (2017)
      to establish a Molecular Diagnostics Facility supporting agroecology (Evans, Whittingham)
      and plant health (Boonham, Budge, Edwards, Gatehouse). Additional investments have
      seen the establishment of Comparative Physiology Lab (£40k) and an analytical facility

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      (£100k) housing mass spectrometers supported by dedicated technical staff. External
      funding through the BBSRC-ALERT scheme has provided automated micro-arrayer for
      carbohydrate analysis (Willats), and robotics for small-scale laboratory automation that
      permits higher throughput, standardised workflows and reproducible experiments (Howard,
      Evans). Jointly with researchers in the medical faculty, AFS are developing specialist small
      molecule analytical facilities (Howard) and in vivo imaging capabilities (Andriotis) to
      complement recent School investment in fluorescent microscopy facilities.

      Future investments in infrastructure are focussed on animal science, with £0.4m committed
      in 2020 to the provision of a livestock technical facility in support of animal welfare work in
      C-DIAL and plans to extend our controlled environment and plant growth facilities. The
      latter will support Newcastle’s contribution to the future of N8 agrifood research initiative the
      Crop and Soil Pipeline (CSIP), an innovation platform that integrates fundamental crop and
      soil science and state of the art farms with translational expertise in support of work with the
      crop protection and plant breeding industries.

      No Category C staff are returned in our submission.
  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

      The AFS community at Newcastle is highly collaborative and has hosted ~50 academics
      with official visiting researcher status over the REF2021 period (Table 4; Section 1.3).

  Table 4: UoA6 REF2021 collaborations and contributions to the research base, economy and
  society.

      Invited       Workshops     External     Inter-  Incoming  Lead PhD                PhDs co-
     External       Organised     Panels      national Visitors supervisions            supervised
   Presentations                              Partners                                  with other
                                                                                           HEIs
       147             33           26          43          47            110               39

     PhD co-         Awards,      Editorial   Major       Spinouts    Collaboration       Esteem
    authorships     Prizes etc.   Boards      Grant                   Agreements         Indicators
                                                s
    155 of 396         15           17          33          1              9                41

      Policy and Impact – Examples include:

      National: Member, Food Standards Agency Science Council; Chair, Advisory Committee
      on the Microbiological Safety of Food (O’Brien). DEFRA workshop (Butler). AHDB
      Scientific Board Member for Protected Ornamentals (George). Member of FSA Advisory
      Committee on Novel Foods and Processes (Wakefield); Vice-Chair British Ecological
      Society Policy Committee (Evans). Member, FSA Social Science Advisory Committee
      (Frewer); Member, UN IAEA /WHO expert group, Food Safety Risk communication
      following a nuclear incident (Frewer). Council member British Ornithologist's Union
      (Whittingham).

      International: Advisory group member for the EUH2020-Valitest project (Boonham);
      Steering group member for the development of the US Diagnostic Assay Laboratory
      Network (Boonham). Member of Conservation Science Advisory Council for A Rocha
      International (Evans). Member, Scientific Advisory Board, European Joint Programming
      Initiative, “A Healthy diet for a healthy life”; Member, working group on animal genomics,
      Nuffield Council on Bioethics (2018-); Chair, Science Foundation Ireland Food Challenge,
      Science Foundation Ireland (SFI) 2020 (Frewer); Member of Conservation Science
      Advisory Council for A Rocha International (Evans); Round-table discussions with Minister

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     for Science and Technology and Director General of Fisheries, Pakistan (Chaudhry). Co-
     author on Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem
     Services (IPBES) European and Central Asian Regional Assessment
     (ipbes.net/assessment-reports/eca) (Whittingham); International expert (funded by
     United Nations Development Programme grants) and co-author of 6th National Report of
     Iraq (reporting process for Convention on Biological Diversity)
     (https://www.cbd.int/doc/nr/nr-06/iq-nr-06-en.pdf) (Whittingham). Council Member of
     International Congress of Entomology (Gatehouse).

     Collaboration Agreements include: AnimalCare and CVS Ltd (Leach). Joint Faculty
     Appointment with the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, USA (Borland). Procter and Gamble
     Ltd (Willats).

  4.1 Leadership, Awards/Scholarship, Esteem:

     Awards for contributions to the discipline include:
     • International: Gatehouse, Certificate of Distinction in Recognition of Outstanding
     Achievements in Entomology (2016); elected an Honorary Member of the National Italian
     Academy of Entomology, (2015); Flecknell, SGV prize for Animal Welfare, (2014); Nouioui,
     Skerman prize for best young international microbial taxonomist (2019); Howard
     Supervision of iGEM team winning 2xGold and 1xBronze awards; Evans 2016 joint-winner
     of the RES Journal Award for the Best Paper in Ecological Entomology; Souza Monteiro
     2020 joint-winner of the European Association of Agricultural Economists Quality of
     Research Discovery Award for 2019.
     • National: Edwards R. (RASE Research Medal 2019); Flecknell (Honorary UK Fellow of
     the Institute of Animal Technology, 2017).

      Named Lectureships and Visiting Professorships:
     • Edwards.M (Visiting Professor, Shanxi Academy of Agricultural Sciences 2019 - 2024);
     • Gatehouse (Visiting Professor, Shanxi Academy of Agricultural Sciences 2019 - 2024);
     • Frewer (Visiting Professor, Swedish Agricultural University 2019-22; Distinguished
        Professor, University of Kuala Lumpar, Malaysia, 2020);
     • Hubbard (Visiting Professor, Mediterranean Agronomic Institute, Zaragoza, Spain since
        2014; Visiting Professor, Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil
        2020-2025)
     • Leach (Visiting Lecturer, Karolinska Institute since 2018).

      External Advisory Panels
     •   National: Validation Panel Harper Adams University & Accreditation Panel BSAS-Royal
         Society of Biology (Chaudhry). Member of Animal Welfare Research Network panel
         (Asher). British Veterinary Association (Leach). Member of the BBSRC Agriculture and
         Food Security strategy panel, and the SAGE advisory group to UK government; Chair of
         the Elizabeth Creak Trust Research Network, 2018; Panel Chair BBSRC Excellence with
         Impact National Competition, 2016; Council member Yorkshire Agricultural Society;
         Member of BBSRC Excellence with Impact Panel, 2015 (Edwards.R). Member UK
         Innovate Grant Panel for Agriculture Innovation Centres, 2014 (Gatehouse). NFU,
         AHDB, Tyne Rivers Countryside Stewardship Facilitation Fund (Standen).
     • International: Polish Ministry of Science and Higher Education (Franks). Chair of
         External Scientific Advisory Board of Agrotecnio (designated a Centre of Excellence for
         Agrifood sciences, Spain), 2013 – present (Gatehouse). Grant panel member Academy
         of Finland (2016-2018) and Swedish Research Council (FORMAS) (Whittingham).
         Member of BBSRC/FCO-sponsored USA/UK 2016 ‘Plant Health’ Mission (Edwards.R).

     Learned Societies: Fellow Royal Society of Chemistry (Edwards.R); Trustee, Stockbridge
     Technology Centre Research Foundation; Vice President, Royal Entomological Society
     (George); Fellow Royal Society of Biology (Borland; Gatehouse; Whittingham);


                                                                                        Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  4.2 Collaborations

     Academic Collaborations:
     NU: AFS staff work regularly with SNES colleagues engaged in environmental research,
     global ecology, and analytical chemistry. Within the SAgE faculty, interactions include
     computer science on machine learning applied to animal welfare, with engineering on
     precision agriculture and with mathematics, statistics and physics on Bayesian networks
     applied to modelling. Across faculties, interactions with FMS staff are directed to the
     Human Nutrition Research Centre (nutrigenomics and big data analytics in relation to
     consumer food choices) and in Neuroscience (animal behaviour, welfare and behavioural
     informatics). CRE is run jointly with the Faculty of Humanities, & Social Sciences, with
     additional links to the business school in marketing and consumer research.

     Regional: AFS staff are integral to the N8 Universities Agri-Resilience programme that has
     influenced change in agrifood policy and practice both in the UK and globally in sustainable
     food systems. Since 2015, related N8 projects have attracted a total of £40 million of
     external funding. AFS have research links to many food and farming businesses in the
     regions including Greggs (Panzone, Souza-Montiero), and through farm director Standen
     and academic coordinator George with Thomas Sherriff, John Deer, Allflex, i2L and ADAS.

     UK: AFS staff (Edwards.R) are linked to HEIs delivering agriculture programmes in the UK
     through the Agricultural Universities Council, with strong links to the Universities of Reading
     and Warwick, HAU and RAU through the Elizabeth Creak Research Network (O’Brien,
     Edwards.R). Additional links through joint partnerships in the agritech centres include
     Cranfield and Rothamsted (Boonham, George CHaP), Nottingham, Aberystwyth, Reading,
     SRUC, Leeds (Asher, CIEL). Sheffield, Rothamsted and the Institute of Zoology were CoI
     partners on the BBSRC funded Black-grass Research Initiative (Edwards.R) and with
     Rothamsted on H2020 projects (Gatehouse, Edwards.M, Evans).

      International: CRE staff are founding partners of Trans-Atlantic Rural Research (TARRN), a
      collaborative network of social scientists in North America (e.g. Cornell, Penn State) and
      Europe conducting research on rural transformation and policy, hosting annual meetings in
      2014 and 2020. Several strong collaborations with Chinese academic institutions resulting
      in REF outputs include Zhejiang University and CAAS (crop protection; Gatehouse);
      Huazhing University (Frewer) Tsinghua University (synthetic biology; Howard) with funding
      from the Biochemical Society and the Society for Experimental Biologists and Souza-
      Monteiro has collaborated with researchers at ESALQ University of Sao Paulo (Brazil) and
      Universitas Gadjah Mada (Indonesia), The University of Kuala Lumpar, Malaysia, and SLU,
      the Swedish Agricultural University (Frewer). Pfeifer with Sokoine University of Agriculture
      is training assistants in Tanzania to support the Agrisys Tanzania project.


     Non-Academic Collaborations:
     AFS have a number of key collaborations with NGOs/TSOs and government. Leach and
     Flecknell have a longstanding relationship with National Centre for the 3Rs relating to
     experimental animal uses, including guidance on pain assessment and alleviation (ICS),
     and extensive e-learning resources in laboratory animal care and management. Frewer is a
     member of the Nuffield Council of Bioethics working group on animal genomics and farmed
     animals and has been involved the WHO/FAO panel ‘Global Food Risk Communication with
     Consumers. Frewer chairs the INCA Institute National de Cancer) steering group on
     pesticide exposure and prostate cancer in the French Antilles. Strategic inputs to the UN
     Convention to ‘Combat Desertification’ and the ‘UN Global Peatlands Initiative’ (ICS), is led
     by Reed. Edwards.R is the Chair of the Farmer Scientist Network operating through the
     Yorkshire Agricultural Society, promoting knowledge exchange between farmers and
     academics and supported by European Innovation Programme funding.



                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      AFS plays an influential role in informing policy both at national and international level.
      Partnering activities include developing network ecology to ‘Understand and secure resilient
      food systems’ (Royal Society; Evans), ‘Peatland Tipping Points’ in collaboration with Defra,
      Natural England and the Committee on Climate Change (Reed), designing sustainable
      management solutions for permanent grasslands across Europe (EU; Frewer,
      Whittingham) and ‘Stacking biodiversity service providers to develop ecologically,
      economically and socially sustainable crop production strategies’ (EU; Gatehouse). AFS
      have also influenced efforts to achieve gender equality between people working in the
      Scottish agricultural sector (ICS; Shortall) and informed policy briefings (Scottish
      Government and Welsh Assembly, Hubbard) and civil society (EURACTIV high-level
      Stakeholder Workshop, Hubbard) on the impacts of Brexit on agriculture. In 2016,
      Hubbard contributed to the drafting of the EC’s Cork Declaration on Rural Development.
      O’Brien serves as a resource advisor for the WHO’s Food Epidemiology Reference Group.

  4.3 Contribution to the research base
      Many academics are members of UKRI peer review panels/pool of experts contributing to
      national science governance. O’Brien, is a current member of the Science Council of FSA,
      whilst Frewer sat on the FSA advisory committee for social science and Observer to the
      EFSA ‘Emerging Food Safety Risk’ working group (2017-2019). Edwards.R has worked
      with BBSRC as a member of Review Board ‘Synthetic Biology’ (2018), the Steering Group
      ‘Understanding the challenge of resistance in agriculture’ (2016) and panel member of the
      Agriculture and Food Security committee (2014-18). Hubbard sits on Animal Welfare
      Committee, UK, Asher the Animal Welfare Research Network panel and Leach the British
      Veterinary Association and National Centre for 3Rs. Frewer is member and interdisciplinary
      advisor on the UoA6 REF panel.

      AFS staff play multiple editorial, or advisory board roles including: Journal Agricultural
      Science (Bilsborrow Chief Editor); Cell Surface (Willats); Journal Animal Ecology (Evans);
      Journal of Food Products Marketing (Souza-Monteiro); PLOS one (Frewer), Journal of
      Insects and Food and Feed (Frewer); Conservation Biology (Reed); Eurochoices (Areal,
      Hubbard); Journal of Agricultural Economics (Hubbard), Scientific Reports (Leach); Plant
      Physiology (Edwards.R); Global Change Biology (Borland); Frontiers Plant Sciences
      (Gatehouse); Journal Applied Ecology (Whittingham). Areal is a member of OECD’s
      Network for Farm-Level Analysis; Souza-Monteiro chairs the Mentoring Committee,
      Agricultural and Applied Economists Association, USA and Gatehouse chairs Agrotecnio,
      Spanish Centre of Excellence for agriculture, animal production and food technology.

      In the REF2021 period there have been >150 invited presentations from AFS staff at major
      international conferences, many as Plenary or Keynote Lectures. Staff have also contributed
      to a national/regional meetings and been involved in organising > 50
      conferences/workshops during the REF2021 period across the AFS remit. Formative AFS-
      hosted conferences include 2018 ‘Measuring Behaviour’, with Swiss group at Agroscope
      (Asher); the 2019 Rank Prize Fund Mini-Symposium ‘New Crop Protection’ & 2014 OECD
      International Conference ‘Global Plant Health Risks and Consequences: Linking Science,
      Economics and Policy’ (Edwards.R); Design of Experiments workshop run 5x over 4 years
      since 2016 (100 participants, 17 universities; 8 companies; 3 government supported R
      bodies) funded by BioIC and BBSRC (Howard); New Phytologist Tansley 2014 Symposium,
      Ecology and Systems Biology of CAM Plants (Borland); 2018 European Congress of
      Entomology and 2016 International Congress Entomology “Novel Biopesticides”
      (Gatehouse); 2019 Royal Society Resilient Futures symposium (Evans). ‘Credibility of
      scientific expertise and decision-making: New challenges for health risk governance in a
      changing world’ 2020 (Frewer).


  4.4 Contributions to the economy
      Newcastle has a long history of research that leads to translation into products, services or
      policy that benefit society, being in the top 25 Times Higher Education impact rankings.

                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Within AFS, the REF2021period has seen an increase in funded research and consultancy
      with industry and the filing of three patents, including on novel methods for pathogen
      resistance in cereals (PCT/EP2017/057333; Gatehouse, Edwards M); herbicide
      resistance diagnostics (WO 2018/138498; Edwards R). These patents have resulted in
      the development of commercialised products, such as the world’s first pocket herbicide
      resistance Diagnostic BReD (Edwards.R), developed as a joint venture with MoLogic Ltd
      and undergoing national and international trials with Adama. In other cases, AFS
      research expertise has resulted in the development of products by industry partners.
      These include development of algorithms with industry partner VetSens which are now
      being used commercially for veterinary/companion animal application and with ALIS Chirpy
      & ALIS Cluster used commercially to monitor health and welfare of intensively produced
      broilers (Asher); commercialisation of Vitamin D enriched eggs (ICS; Hill), the animal feed
      supplement Crystalyx with global sales of £2.5m (Chaudhry) and automated plant
      pathogen detection (Boonham). Our wider impact and engagement also includes spinout
      companies. For example Geneius Labs (Barnes, Borland, Stach), which is a molecular
      diagnostics company aimed at servicing the food and drink safety sector employing >40
      people. This was recently sold to SynLabs, an international medical diagnostics provider
      for human and veterinary medicine as well as environmental analysis for £6M.

  4.5 Contributions to society
      Research from AFS has positively impacted on society through improving the health of
      consumers through vitamin biofortification (Hill), redressing gender inequality in farming
      (Shortall), improvements in animal welfare (Leach) and global food safety policy (Frewer).
      These studies have formed the basis of public lectures, debates (Café scientifique) and
      other outreach activities extending their reach to the wider community. Further, AFS staff
      have been involved in citizen science projects delivered through the Natural History Society
      of Northumbria (Port, Whittingham, Evans) and the Plant Health Initiative (Jones,
      Boonham). AFS regularly participate in international Summer Schools including the
      ‘Genetically Engineered Machines’ (iGEM) competition (Howard); the Open Air Laboratories
      (OPAL) programme (Borland), inspiring local communities, in particular school students, to
      appreciate the natural world. AFS also regularly participate in agricultural shows across the
      country (Edwards.R, George, Boonham, Gatehouse, Edwards.M) such as Yorkshire
      Agriculture Show, Cereals, CropTec and AHDB-sponsored field demonstrations using their
      trailers to showcase research to farmers and the general public.




                                                                                          Page 22
