Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: The University of Leeds

 Unit of Assessment: 1 (Clinical Medicine)

 Section 1. Unit context, research and impact strategy

 1.1.       Overview

 Our submission represents research activity from 161 staff (154.8 FTE) within the School of Medicine
 (SoM). Our research strategy is driven by an ambition to improve outcomes for patients using
 approaches spanning discovery and translational science, experimental medicine and clinical trials,
 biostatistics, epidemiology and data science. Translation of research findings to clinical evaluation,
 adoption, and implementation is supported by academics working collaboratively within the SoM and
 across other UoAs (including 2-5, 7-12, and 24).

 Our interdisciplinary research focuses on improving patient outcomes in Cancer, Cardiometabolic
 Disease, Musculoskeletal Disorders and Rare Diseases, and is facilitated by cutting edge innovation
 in Healthcare Technologies (HealthTech), Imaging, and Data Science. Our UoA has a critical mass
 of investigators tackling health challenges that have a global impact; £180M income from programme,
 project and infrastructure funding; a track record of internationally impactful publications; internal
 investment of £3.74M over the REF period to support early career researchers; and externally funded
 fellowships totalling £26.8M. Our commitment to academic excellence is embedded within a culture
 which values equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI), as evidenced by our Gold Athena SWAN
 award.

 Research highlights include:

           Major infrastructure awards with substantial interdisciplinary collaborations, including
            partnerships across the Faculties of Engineering and Physical Sciences, Biological Sciences,
            and Medicine and Health: the National Pathology Imaging Co-operative (£41.5M), MRC/Leeds
            Medical Bioinformatics Centre (£7.0M), NIHR Leeds Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) and
            NIHR Clinical Research Facility (CRF) (£7.45M) and MRI Scanner (£1M), Leeds Cancer
            Research UK Centre of Excellence for Radiotherapy Research (£3.5M), Cancer Research UK
            Clinical Trials Unit (£1.9M), NIHR Global Research Group for Surgical Technologies (£2.0M),
            British Heart Foundation Experimental and Preclinical Imaging Centre (ePIC) (£1.9M), NIHR
            Leeds Surgical MedTech Cooperative (£1.4M), NIHR Leeds In Vitro Diagnostics Co-operative
            (£1.4M) and the National Centre for Clinical Translation of Hyperpolarised Magnetic Resonance
            (£4.6M);
           Total grant income of £213M, including 69 programme level awards or grants > £1M;
           4800 reviewed papers published by UoA1 staff, of which 54% were in the top 10% journals by
            CiteScore Percentile (SciVal) and over half of which were co-authored with international
            collaborators;
           Success in supporting and developing our early career researchers, with 30 University
            Academic Fellows (UAF) securing £4.3M in external fellowships and 122 externally funded
            PhDs.

 1.2.       Research and Crosscutting Themes

 Research in UoA1 is concentrated around four diseases, with research groups geographically aligned
 with hospital sites within Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust (LTHT; Figure 1). Research in these


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 areas is underpinned by three crosscutting technology themes: HealthTech, Imaging and Data
 Science. We are at the forefront of today’s technologies in addressing grand clinical challenges by
 aligning our research priorities with clinical need, ensuring these strengths will deliver clear benefit to
 patients. Our research is key to driving inclusive economic growth, supported by our £40M NEXUS
 centre that fosters joint academic-industry co-creation and ensures rapid commercialisation (REF5a).
 The quality and impact of our research is enhanced by our close and interdisciplinary working across
 UoAs.




 Research and impact within UoA1 are facilitated through our partnership with LTHT, one of the UK’s
 largest acute NHS trusts, with which we have a formal research framework agreement and a shared
 research strategy. Providing local and specialist services for a population of 770,000 and regional
 specialist care for up to 5.4M people, with 170,000 admissions and 1.2M outpatient attendances each
 year (pre COVID-19), LTHT represents a unique resource of patients, clinical samples and healthcare
 data, underpinned by one of the UK’s most advanced connected digital health record systems. Our
 research is facilitated by the co-location of essential infrastructure, including laboratories, imaging and
 clinical research facilities, and five UoL/LTHT-hosted NIHR centres (collectively known as
 NIHR@Leeds) led by UoA1 academics. Activities are overseen by the Joint Partnership Board, co-

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 chaired by the University’s Vice Chancellor and the Chief Executive of LTHT. Our wider civic role is
 ensured through leadership of the Leeds Academic Health Partnership to ensure we address local
 health demands, partner across the entire health and social care and, in partnership with AHSN, rapidly
 adopt innovation for the population of Leeds and Yorkshire & Humber.

 The UoL/LTHT partnership co-hosts our centres of excellence (Section 3.2), which work across
 research themes to deliver research excellence with a clear path through to impact (Figure 2).


                                          Transforming human health and wellbeing to
    Vision                                         improve patient outcomes
                               Diseases addressed                                   Methodological advances
                               Cardio-        Musculo-       Rare           Health Tech
   Themes       Cancer                                                      innovation
                                                                                               Imaging          Data science
                              metabolic       skeletal     Diseases
                                                     UoL - LTHT partnership
                                   Connecting researchers with patients, clinical samples and
                                        healthcare data to improve health outcomes
                             Local and national health services                     Funders        Patients        Industry
                                         Bio-        IVD        Surgical
  Centres &     BRC          CRF      resource       MIC                             RIS            PPIE               Nexus
                                                                  MIC
  platforms
                                                 Leeds Academic Health Partnership (LAHP)
                                           Interdisciplinary research centres of excellence
                                             Multidisciplinary
                 Leeds Cancer                                              Centre for Responsive          Leeds Centre for
                                          Cardiovascular Research
                Research Centre                                            HealthTech Innovation          Disease Models
                                                  Centre

                 Fundamental research              Translate        Implement       Disseminate               Impact
    Process       Core          Discovery &          Trials &          Service        Knowledge            Outcome
                 biology           Design          Assessment         Research       Management            Delivery

                                           Motivated, involved, and supported researchers
                              People                        Infrastructure                Impact team
    Culture        Future
                                   Collaborative      Interdisciplinary      Strategic          Impact             Policy
                  leaders
                                   opportunities         initiatives       partnerships       Champions         engagement
                  pipeline


  Figure 2: Pathway to translation and impact. BRC – Biomedical Research Centre; CRF – Clinical
  Research Facility; IVD MIC – In-Vitro Diagnostics Co-Operative; LTHT – Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS
  Trust; NIHR – National Institute for Health Research; PPIE – Patient and Public Involvement and
  Engagement; RIS – Research and Innovation Service; Surgical MIC - Surgical MedTech Co-operative;
  UoL – University of Leeds.


 We foster a dynamic R&I environment by actively pursuing research as a mechanism to improve patient
 outcomes. Our vision is realised through a focus on specific diseases, underpinned by Centres and
 Platforms of excellence. We create a culture of motivated researchers and have well developed
 processes to translate research excellence to impact (Figure 2).




                                                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3.   Development of our Research Environment since REF 2014

  Notation for staff names:
         Staff returned in UoA1: bold
         Returned retired or former staff with visiting status: bold italics
         Staff returned in other UoAs: underlined
         Non-returned UOL or NHS staff: italics

 Our REF2014 environment statement outlined ambitious plans for research in UoA1. To realise these
 ambitions, we have cultivated a thriving and inclusive research culture in each of our areas of research
 excellence. Detailed for each theme in Section 1.5, the vitality and sustainability of research in UoA1
 is demonstrated by our major scientific discoveries, meaningful impact generating positive change for
 the health and wellbeing of the population, investment in infrastructure, vibrant culture of
 interdisciplinarity and our commitment to recruitment, training, development and mentorship of future
 academic leaders in an environment which prioritises EDI. We are proud to be the first SoM to receive
 an Advance HE Athena Swan Gold Award. We have instituted policies that have supported
 professional and personal development (Section 2) resulting in 40 UoA1 staff promoted and award of
 35 personal fellowships.

 Cross-faculty interdisciplinary working is exemplified by several initiatives which include researchers
 across medicine, biology, engineering, physical sciences, artificial intelligence and computing (Sections
 3.2 and 4.1). We have close working ties with the Astbury Centre for Structural Biology (£19M recent
 investment, Wellcome Trust) and Engineering & Physical Sciences (£96M investment in Sir William
 Henry Bragg Building) and have 21 UoA1 academics embedded in the Leeds Institute of Data Analytics
 (LIDA). Interdisciplinarity is key to our early career researcher development, exemplified by cross-
 faculty appointments of four University Academic Fellows in UoA1, our 4-year BHF-PhD programme in
 Cardiovascular Disease and Diabetes (16 Fellows across Medicine and Biology, £2.4M), our UKRI
 Centre for Doctoral Training in Artificial Intelligence for Medical Diagnosis and Care (50 PhD students
 spanning Medicine and Computing, £5.9M), and Wellcome and MRC consortia Doctoral Training
 Platforms (Sections 2.3.4 and 2.6).

 Exemplars of emerging research strengths as a direct result of interdisciplinary working include:

       The National Pathology Imaging Co-operative (NPIC, Treanor, Quirke £41.5M UKRI Industrial
        Strategy Challenge Fund and NHS) initially with 27 partners including 9 NHS Trusts, 8
        Universities and 10 Commercial partners. NPIC drives implementation of digital pathology in 15
        Hospitals in the north of England, and a further 20 nationally, creating a National Digital
        Pathology system and generating over 3 petabytes of image data/year, enabling the NHS to
        lead on the development and use of artificial intelligence;
       Our commitment to tackling real-world challenges and global priorities is embedded in our cross-
        Faculty impact strategy, where the University has considerable strength in global health,
        receiving the UK’s third highest number of GCRF awards (84 awards totalling £46.8M). Working
        with researchers across the University and key international collaborations, UoA1 academics
        have contributed to this success through surgical innovations in Sierra Leone and rural India
        (Jayne), combatting bacterial resistance in Europe (Clostridium difficile infection) COMBACTE-
        CDI (Wilcox) and tele-rehabilitation to improve quality of life in individuals with disability in Nepal
        (Sivan).

 We responded quickly to the global coronavirus pandemic by mobilising our researchers to frontline
 clinical care; COVID research, which was delivered by the BRC and CRF working with LTHT; and


                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strategic advisory and outreach roles. Our response to COVID-19 illustrated both our research agility
 and the commitment of our staff to embrace new responsibilities, including secondments to the Alderley
 Park Lighthouse Lab and Loop-mediated Isothermal Amplification testing at UoL.

 UoA1 senior academics holding national research leadership roles during the COVID-19 crisis include
 Wilcox (SAGE member and CMO Senior Clinicians Group), Simpson (Urgent Public Health Group
 member as CRN National Lead for O&G), Hull (UPH Group and Chair of UPH Aerosol-Generating
 Procedures Research Group), Markham (Non-Executive Director UKRI Medicines Discovery Catapult,
 establishing the national UK Lighthouse Labs Network) and Stewart (Vice President Academy Medical
 Sciences, winter planning, immune targets, workforce and impact on careers).

 UoL researchers have secured 14 grants for COVID-19 research with the following led by UoA1:

       Wilcox and Messenger : NIHR CONDOR, £1.3M involving the NIHR Leeds In Vitro Diagnostics
        Co-operative (Section 3.2.1);
       Greenwood: COVID-HEART (£0.8M UKRI/NIHR), a UK multi-centre study employing MRI to
        investigate the effects of SARS-COV-2 on the heart;
       Sandoe (PEACH - £0.7M) investigation of procalcitonin in the evaluation of antibiotic use in
        COVID-19 hospitalised patients.

 The UoL/LTHT infrastructure provided a responsive environment to address the pandemic, notably re-
 prioritising BRC-CRF activity to COVID-19 experimental medicine candidates. Within five days of the
 first COVID patient being admitted to LTHT, we recruited into nationally prioritised studies (e.g
 RECOVERY), led on critical SARS-CoV-2 testing infrastructure and recruited 684 patients in 26 UPH
 intervention trials, and over 800 patients into vaccine trials (highest single site recruiter to the Novavax
 trial). UoA1 researchers published 153 peer reviewed publications in the REF period in response to the
 pandemic.

 1.4.   Research and Impact (R&I) Strategy

 1.4.1. Development since REF2014

 Throughout the REF period, our goal has been to improve patient outcomes and reduce health
 inequalities at local, national and international levels through the delivery of research excellence and
 impact. Our strategy is predicated on exercising judgement, focusing on areas of international
 excellence that encompass the full translational pathway from discovery science to applied health
 research.

 Our funding successes, infrastructure investment and strategic appointments have driven the evolution
 of the themes we returned in REF2014 (Cancer and Pathology, Cardiovascular, Musculoskeletal
 Disease and Genes and Development) as illustrated in Figure 1. Our strategy is driven by the aim of
 improving health and wellbeing through research and innovation in biomedicine and health services
 embedded within a structure that promotes and values its people and impact.

  Our vision is that we will transform human health and wellbeing to improve patient outcomes across
             cancer, cardiometabolic disease, musculoskeletal disease and rare diseases.

 Led by the Dean (Kearney), the SoM developed a bold, new strategy, Medicine Redefined. This
 employed an innovative staff consultation and cultural change programme which enabled us to build
 on our plans for research excellence and, critically, to embed activities in an ethical, vibrant, and
 supportive culture which promotes scientific rigour, collaborative working and improved patient

                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 outcomes. At the core of Medicine Redefined was academic excellence underpinned by our
 commitment to EDI. Led by Jayne, the UoL-LTHT Shared Research and Innovation Strategy for 2020-
 2030 was developed, promoting regional partnership working to transform health and wellbeing with a
 commitment to closing the gap on health inequalities, embedding research within local communities,
 supporting outstanding patient care through research, driving sustainable innovation for inclusive
 growth and equipping our researchers with skills for the future.

 Integrating our previous strategy with Medicine Redefined, we have:

  i.   Focused our disease-based research themes to address grand clinical challenges. Within
      our society anyone over the age of 40 years has a 1 in 5 chance of developing heart failure, a 1 in
      2 chance of developing cancer and an almost universal likelihood of developing osteoarthritis,
      whilst rare diseases affect the lives of 3 million people in the UK. Our research themes respond to
      these major clinical challenges;
  ii. Optimised our research strengths. All our disease-centred and cross cross-cutting technology
      themes have strong collaborations across the UoL and externally to meet the demands of
      tomorrow’s healthcare professionals and the global population. Such strategic partnerships
      increase the efficiency, quality and impact of our research;
  iii. Developed a cohesive strategy to deliver impact. To achieve our ambition to use research as
      a mechanism for enabling positive societal change, we have adopted a ‘push, pull, link and
      exchange’ approach. This ensures that academics disseminate knowledge to the relevant users
      and stakeholders (push), actively stimulate a demand for knowledge amongst potential users (pull)
      and organise activities to bring researchers and interested parties together (link and exchange).
      The integration of this approach within our research cultivates and fosters a positive impact
      environment. We appointed 10 Impact Champions across the Faculty (Morrison and McGonagle
      in UoA1) to drive systematic realisation of impact and engagement with stakeholders. They ensure
      that impact is prioritised, based around identifying key opportunities for research excellence and
      providing capacity, as well as the motivation for academics to thrive. R&I strategy is delivered
      through dedicated staff based within the Faculty, including a Professorial Impact Lead (Mon-
      Williams UoA4) and a full time Impact Support Officer. They both sit on the University Impact Group
      that provides central support and strategic direction for impact activity across the campus. Impact
      roadshows and bespoke workshops are delivered alongside the University’s centralised
      Organisational Development and Professional Learning service;
  iv. Instilled an open research environment embedding a culture of research integrity and
      ethical governance. Research in UoA1 is conducted according to the principles of academic
      excellence, community, integrity, inclusiveness and professionalism. We share research data
      openly and publish through the White Rose Research Online database or open access publication
      (REF5a). We are committed to responsible practices in research evaluation aligned with the UoL’s
      signature of the San Francisco Declaration of Research Assessment (DORA).

 1.4.2. Research and impact plans for the next five years

 We will strengthen our ambition to transform health in areas of major societal challenge through our
 domains of research excellence via:

          Responding to the changing patterns of human health and the increasing burdens of aging and
           multimorbidity by developing and harnessing new technologies and driving further advances
           in imaging science;
          Maximising our partnerships to interrogate big data sets to improve patient outcomes and
           identify new opportunities in the HealthTech and AI spheres in our research themes;

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Promoting interdisciplinary research through our flagship platforms (Section 3.2);
       Leveraging the infrastructure and capacity of significant investments, by securing grants from
        major government, research council, charity and industry funders and targeting longer and
        larger UKRI awards to ensure sustainable research income. Our plans include applications for
        more ambitious Leeds BRC (led by Conaghan and Stewart), a progressive NIHR CRF, a
        Cancer Research UK (CRUK) Centre, a CRUK Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre and new
        Doctoral Training Platforms across Wellcome, BHF, MRC and EPSRC;
       Capitalising on the £600M Leeds Hospitals of the Future programme, the largest healthcare
        capital investment detailed in the government’s Health Infrastructure Plan. As the first digital-
        by-design hospital in the UK, plans include new Adult and Children’s Hospitals in 92,000m2 of
        focused healthcare space, with the opportunity to extend our NEXUS industry community
        through the Leeds Innovation district;
       Continuing to grow our research infrastructure to provide seamless pathways to achieve
        impact.

 We will further develop our thriving research and environment by:

       Leveraging policy-maker, professional, public, industry and academic partnerships to
        maximise the relevance, reach and impact of our research;
       Working across the UoL-LTHT partnership, embed our strategic approach to public and
        patient engagement (Section 4.3) across the UoL-LTHT partnership, by building sustainable
        partnerships with existing groups, increasing diversity, and developing novel methods of
        involvement;
       Identifying and developing future research leaders by winning high quality doctoral,
        postdoctoral and senior training fellowships and mentoring our cohorts of earlier career
        researchers, University Academic Fellows, and clinical academic trainees;
       Building on our Athena SWAN Charter Gold Award to promote a diverse, equitable and
        inclusive research culture.

 1.5 Research Disease Themes

 1.5.1. Cancer Research Theme

 Cancer represents one of the biggest global challenges. In 2020 there were 19.3M new cases and 9.9M
 cancer deaths (WHO 2020). The incidence is predicted to rise to 27.5M new cases by 2040 (CRUK)
 with 1 in 2 men and women being diagnosed with the disease during their lifetime.

 Our grand challenge is to bring together scientists and clinicians from across discipline boundaries to
       deliver world-leading cancer research that improves outcomes for patients with cancer.

 The cancer research theme is strongly aligned with the recently established, interdisciplinary Leeds
 Cancer Research Centre (LCRC - Director Sebag-Montefiore). LCRC research excellence and state-
 of-the-art infrastructure in discovery biology, physical sciences, engineering, artificial intelligence and
 clinical research to unlock new insights in cancer biology and accelerate the translation of exciting new
 treatments and technologies to improve the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of cancer.

 Theme strengths cover the breadth of interdisciplinary cancer research including cancer biology,
 prevention, early diagnosis and detection, treatment and optimisation. Strengths in translational and
 clinical research include cancer and digital pathology, clinical trials, surgery and robotics and



                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 radiotherapy, with disease strengths in anal, brain, colorectal, haematological, liver, lung and urogenital
 cancers.

 Our clinical trials deliver outcomes-focused research, defining new standards of care that have changed
 clinical practice through national and international guidelines resulting in global socio-economic benefit.
 For example, clinical trials demonstrated improved survival for patients with chronic lymphatic
 leukaemia [UOA1-1299] and myeloma [ICS#UOA1-4] and reduced risk of bowel cancer in patients with
 Lynch syndrome treared with aspirin [ICS#UOA1-1]. The largest randomised trial performed in
 colorectal cancer demonstrated similar outcomes for robotic surgery when compared to laparoscopic
 surgery [ICS#UOA1-2].

 Research Groups

   i. Tumour biology
 Understanding the cellular and molecular causes of cancer is vital to developing new therapies and to
 improve detection and diagnosis. Research areas of this group include cell signalling and cancer
 genomics (Knowles, Riobo-Del Galdo, Lorger, Mavria, Wurdak), computational cancer biology and
 bioinformatics (Stead – UKRI Future Leaders Fellow), biomarker development (Banks), novel in vivo
 therapeutics such as microbubbles and nanorods (Coletta), oncolytic virus immunotherapies (Griffin,
 Cook,GP) and translational oncolytic viral trials (Samson - CRUK Clinician Scientist).

   ii. Cancer prevention
 Research in this group focuses on the early (endoscopic) diagnosis of mucosal lesions (Grabsch) and
 their prevention by endoscopic removal (Subramanian) or chemoprevention (Hull, Bishop -Turing
 Fellow).

   iii. Digital pathology and cancer informatics
 Quirke (NIHR Senior Investigator) and Treanor (LTHT) pioneered digital scanning and virtual histology
 which has enhanced cancer diagnosis. Treanor leads the National Pathology Imaging Co-operative
 (£41.5M UKRI/NHS/Industry funding) which applies AI to cancer diagnosis. Hall,G and Markham
 provide national leadership in cancer informatics through their roles at Health Data Research UK and
 our MRC Medical Bioinformatics Centre.

   iv. Systemic Therapies
 Working closely with the Clinical Trials Research Unit (UoA2), LTHT and NIHR Leeds CRF, this group
 (Selby, Twelves, Seymour, Perren, Vasudev, Seligmann) focuses on novel treatments and
 translational clinical trials in patients with breast, gastro-intestinal and kidney cancers.

   v. Radiotherapy Research
 Sebag-Montefiore leads the Leeds CRUK Centre of Excellence for Radiotherapy Research. This
 group focuses on personalised, adaptive and novel strategies for brain, liver and pelvic radiotherapy
 for primary and recurrent cancer with a focus on patients with brain, liver and anorectal cancers (Sebag-
 Montefiore, Short, Frangi (UoA11), Henry, Appelt, Murray, Gilbert-CRUK Clinical Trials Fellow).

   vi. Precision Cancer Surgery
 Jayne directs the NIHR In Vitro Diagnostic Co-operative including a focus on patients with colorectal
 (Jayne) and hepatobiliary cancers (Toogood). Jayne and Valdastri (UoA12) specialise in novel robotic
 and engineering approaches for precision surgical treatments and Mathew in Neurosurgery.




                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  vii. Haematology and Immunology
 The international strengths of this group include clinical and translational research in B-cell
 haematological malignancies (Hillmen, Tooze, Cook,G), melanoma (Newton-Bishop), cancer
 genetics and epidemiology (Bishop), and molecular and cellular immunology (Cook,GP, Klein).
 Cook,G directs the NIHR Surgical Technologies Medical Technologies In Vitro Diagnostics Co-
 operative.

   viii. Host-microbial interactions
 Quirke, Wilcox, Kirby, Hull, Ford, Sandoe have major strengths in understanding the role of the
 microbiome in cancer risk and treatment efficacy as well as hospital-acquired infection and anti-
 microbial resistance research. There are strong links with Electronic & Electrical Engineering (UoA12)
 for the development of novel sensors.

 Research and Impact Highlights

 Bishop demonstrated that aspirin prevented the development of colorectal cancer in patients with
 Lynch syndrome [UOA1-356; ICS#UOA1-1]. Grabsch reported intratumoural heterogeneity of gene
 expression in gastric biopsies in relation to metastasis [UoA1-4607]. Hull reported in a randomised trial
 that aspirin and EPA have chemopreventative activity in high risk patients in the first intervention trial
 in the Bowel Cancer Screening programme [UOA1-592]. In colorectal cancer, Quirke identified patients
 with tumours overexpressing and amplifying the HER2 gene as an alternative driver of MEK–AKT
 pathway activation [UOA1-37]. Jayne demonstrated that robotic assisted surgery resulted in similar
 rates of conversion to open surgery as laparoscopically assisted surgery [UOA1-586; ICS#UOA1-2].
 Sebag-Montefiore demonstrated improved functional outcome and high rates of organ preservation in
 early stage rectal cancer when compared with radical surgery [UOA1-4614]; and identified 26 weeks
 as the best time to determine complete response in the largest global randomised trial of
 chemoradiotherapy for anal cancer [UOA1-486; ICS#UOA1-5].

 In B cell malignancies, Hillmen demonstrated that Ibrutinib improved overall survival, compared with
 ofatumumab in patients with previously treated Chronic Lymphatic Leukaemia [UOA1-1299] and
 Cook,G demonstrated that high-dose melphalan and salvage autologous stem cell transplantation
 improved overall survival in the Myeloma X relapse trial [UOA1-1345; ICS#UOA1-4]. Klein established
 a pivotal role for NF-κB subunits in the contribution of regulator T cells to anti-tumour immune responses
 [UOA1-3657] and germinal centre B cell maintenance [UOA1-3656].

 In brain cancer, Stead demonstrated that when glioma cells were stressed by cancer therapies such
 as radiation and chemotherapy, tumours evolved randomly instead of proceeding down predictable
 paths [UOA1-2157]. Wurdak reported targeting of HSPD1-dependent metabolic pathways as an
 effective strategy for treating brain cancer [UOA1-2496]. Mavria identified a novel Rho-family GTPase
 activation cascade during angiogenesis [UOA1-2304]. Twelves and Short led the first, early phase
 randomised trial of cannabinoid treatment in cancer, in patients with glioblastoma multiforme.

 Glaser together with Stark in UoA2 identified poor treatment outcomes in young patients with cancer
 leading to policy change and introduction of specialised NHS cancer services for teenagers and young
 adults [ICS#UOA1-3].

 Treanor developed digital pathology software and interface (Leeds Virtual Microscope) which
 transformed pathology practice in LTHT and is improving cancer diagnosis worldwide (major industry
 partnerships including Leica and Roche) [ICS#UOA1-7].




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Banks investigated the genomic architecture of clear cell renal cell cancer across Europe, identifying
 a potential environmental carcinogen [UOA1-106]. Samson demonstrated that the intravenous infusion
 of oncolytic human reovirus led to infection of tumour cells and up-regulated the PD-1/PD-L1 axis in
 tumour [UOA1-2140]. Samson treated the world’s first patient with the oncolytic virus TG6002
 administered by intrahepatic artery infusion in colorectal cancer with liver metastases. Bishop and Iles
 carried out large, international genetic meta-analysis to identify new cutaneous melanoma risk loci
 [UOA1-1772].

 Key funding awards

 Centre and Strategic / Infrastructure awards: Leeds Yorkshire Cancer Research Early Phase Clinical
 Trial Unit (Brown J (UoA2) with Twelves & Sebag-Montefiore £0.9M); Leeds Cancer Research UK
 Clinical Trial Unit (Brown,J with Sebag-Montefiore & Cook,G £1.9M); Leeds Cancer Research UK
 Centre of Excellence for Radiotherapy Research (Sebag-Montefiore £3.5M); National Institute for
 Health Research In Vitro Diagnostics (Cook,G £1.35M) and Surgical Medical Technologies (Jayne
 £1.35M); Northern Pathology Imaging Co-Operative (Treanor LTHT £41.5M); Centre for Doctoral
 Training for Artificial Intelligence and the early detection diagnosis and treatment of cancer (Hogg
 (UoA11) with Hall,G £5.9M); Yorkshire Cancer Research University Academic Fellowship programme
 (Stewart £4M).

 Programme funding: Cancer Research UK: Bishop (£4.9M); Morris (UoA2) with Seligmann, Seymour
 and others (£2.9M); Tooze (£0.6M); Ladbury with Quirke (£1.5M). Yorkshire Cancer Research: Quirke
 (£1.5M); Knowles (£1.4M); Velikova (UoA3) with Hall,G (£0.5M). Brain Tumour Charity: Short (£1.4M).

 Major National and International Collaborative Awards: Cancer Research UK: International Grand
 Challenge OPTIMISTICC (Quirke £2.5M); DATA-CAN Hub for Cancer Data (Hall,G £1.3M).

 Clinical trials funding >£1m: Cancer Research UK: Cook,G Myeloma XII (£1.3M), Myeloma XIV (£1.3M)
 and Myeloma XV (£1.5M); Hillmen CLL FLAIR (£1.0M); Sebag-Montefiore PLATO Personalising Anal
 cancer Radiotherapy Dose (£1.6M). Yorkshire Cancer Research: Callister (LTHT) Lung cancer
 screening trial (£7.7M); Hull EMT 2 trial Omega 3 colorectal prevention trial (£1.5M); Jayne InTAct:
 intra-operative fluorescence angiography to prevent anastomotic leak in rectal cancer surgery (£1.9M).
 EU: Selby Novel cancer vaccines with virus based cDNA libraries and monitoring for resistant tumour
 cell populations in prostate cancer (£2.0M); Transgene: Samson Virus-based immunotherapies for the
 treatment of cancer (£2.8M).

 1.5.2. Cardiometabolic Research Theme

 Cardiovascular diseases are the largest cause of death globally, leading to the loss of 17.9M lives each
 year. Diabetes affects >415M people worldwide with changing lifestyle and patterns of nutrition
 generating an anticipated increase to 624M people by 2040. Cardiovascular disease and diabetes
 together represent a deadly combination leading to ~15 years reduction in life expectancy.

   Our grand clinical challenge is to discover new principles for detecting and treating cardiovascular
                                         complications of diabetes.

 This theme hosts 46 researchers including two British Heart Foundation (BHF) Professors (Kearney,
 Plein) and three Wellcome Trust Investigators (Ariens, Beech, Schneider). Our fundamental
 cardiometabolic research has led to advances in understanding of vascular insulin sensitivity, blood
 flow sensing, fibrin biofilm, myokine release, G protein signalling, heart failure and mitochondrial failure.
 Our discovery science feeds translational research aimed at developing new diagnostics and medicines

                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 – e.g. novel anticoagulants (Philippou). In clinical science, we have demonstrated the utility of
 magnetic resonance imaging in coronary heart disease diagnostics and established a protective role
 for vitamin D in left ventricular dysfunction.

 Research Groups

 An interdisciplinary structure within this theme provides a boundary-free climate for cardiovascular
 research facilitated by seminars and an annual research retreat to promote collaboration. Our research
 is undertaken through three dynamic groups:

   i. Discovery and Translational Science
 We undertake high-calibre basic and translational studies in areas including ion channels (Beech, Bon,
 Bailey, Shi, Kalli), endothelial biology (Kearney, Wheatcroft, Cubbon, Sukumar, Meakin,
 McKeown), thrombosis (Ariens, Philippou, Naseem, Macrae), metabolism (Roberts), myocardial
 biology (Turner, Drinkhill, Saha, Maqbool), reproduction and development (Picton, Huntriss, Forde,
 Forbes) and vascular inflammation (Morgan);

   ii. Biomedical Imaging Science
 Plein, Greenwood, Schneider, Frangi (UoA11) and UAFs Dall’Armellina, Bissell, Levelt have
 improved our understanding of normal physiology, mechanisms of myocardial disease and
 cardiovascular treatment effects through the development and application of precise biomedical
 imaging techniques;

  iii. Clinical & Population Science
 We conduct interdisciplinary clinical research in cardiovascular risk/thrombosis in diabetes (Grant,
 Ajjan), maternal diabetes (Scott), nutrition (Hardie), cardiovascular epidemiology (Hall,AS, Hall,M
 with Gale UoA2) and personalised heart failure/device therapy (Gierula with Witte UoA24).

 Research and Impact Highlights

 In basic/translational science, Beech discovered that the ion-channel PIEZO-1 is critical in blood vessel
 architecture, function and response to exercise [UoA1-1654; UoA1-272]; Roberts identified factors
 inducing browning of adipose tissue in relation to cardiometabolic risk [UoA1-3519; UoA1-3520];
 Kearney defined the role of endothelial insulin-signalling in vascular function and repair [UoA1-1852];
 Cubbon identified the modulatory influence of endothelial metabolism in angiogenesis and
 vasoprotection [UoA1-1843; UoA1-1844; UoA1-1845]; Ariens/Macrae identified a novel property of
 fibrin in forming a biofilm in wound healing/infection [UoA1-2536] and Naseem showed that oxidised
 lipids activate platelets [UoA1-956].

 In clinical science, Greenwood/Dall’Armellina demonstrated utility of cardiovascular MRI in coronary
 artery disease [UoA1-1281; UoA1-3565; ICS#UOA1-6] and aortic valve disease [UoA1-1277];
 Schneider pioneered pre-clinical MRI in assessing experimental cardiac injury/recovery [UoA1-3562;
 UoA1-3560]; Scott examined continuous glucose-monitoring and demonstrated improved control with
 closed-loop insulin delivery in pregnancy [UoA1-1551; UoA1-1547; UoA1-1548]; Hall,M identified
 factors associated with improved mortality from myocardial infarction [UoA1-2309]; Gierula showed
 that personalised rate-response programming of cardiac pacemakers improves exercise capacity in
 heart failure [UoA1-2554,UoA1-2555]. Gierula, Kearney and Witte (UoA24) demonstrated that vitamin
 D improves functional status in cardiac failure [UoA1-1853].




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Key funding awards

 Strategic & Centre awards: A BHF Strategic Initiative (£1.9M – matched funding from UoL) to Plein
 supported the development of a state-of-the art Experimental and Preclinical Imaging Centre (ePiC). A
 £4.6M MRC Award to Plein funded the Centre for Clinical Translation of Hyperpolarised Magnetic
 Resonance. BHF chairs were awarded to Kearney (£1.4M) & Plein (£1.0M). A £2.4M BHF award
 (Beech, Cubbon) supported our 4-year PhD programme in Cardiovascular Disease & Diabetes. A
 £0.45M award to Kearney & Cubbon from Medtronic funded a clinical PhD programme in
 Cardiovascular Science.

 Programme awards: include BHF Programme grants to Kearney (£1.4M), Plein (£1.0M), Naseem
 (£0.9M), Ariens (£1.1M), Beech (£1.4M). Wellcome Trust Investigator Awards to Beech (£1.8M),
 Ariens (£0.7M) and Schneider (£1.8M). Wellcome Trust Seeding Drug Discovery Initiative Award
 (£3.0M) and Innovate UK Award (£1.3M) to Philippou.

 1.5.3. Musculoskeletal Research Theme

 Musculoskeletal (MSK) conditions are the single most common cause of chronic disability and one
 of the most expensive to treat. The global burden of MSK diseases has increased by 25 % over the
 past decade. This research theme focuses on world class research in immune mediated
 inflammatory diseases (IMIDs) and osteoarthritis (OA) and their consequences.

 IMIDs affect the immune response of the body and include a number of inflammatory arthritic conditions,
 (such as rheumatoid arthritis, spondylarthropathies and polymyalgia rheumatica), inflammatory
 connective tissue conditions (such as scleroderma and systemic lupus erythematosus) and the
 vasculitides (such as giant cell arteritis and Behçet’s Syndrome). IMIDs affect over 5% of the population
 and result in joint damage, physical disability and reduced life expectancy. Effective treatments exist
 and some are expensive, emphasising the importance of a personalised and stratified approach.

 While not as aggressive, OA presents a wider challenge; worldwide estimates of OA indicate that one
 in ten men and one in five women aged over 60 years have symptomatic OA and treatment options
 remain poor. The prevalence of OA will increase with changing ageing and obesity rates, with an
 expected increase in joint replacement surgery in younger people who will subsequently be living longer
 with their replacements.

   Our grand clinical challenge is to ensure healthy ageing and provide a pain-free and independent
                     lifestyle to patients presenting with musculoskeletal problems.

 The theme’s strength is in translational and basic science research in musculoskeletal diseases,
 assessing pathologies through integrated study of:

       structure (centring on ultrasound and MR imaging);
       function (motion analysis and novel imaging techniques);
       impact of disease (including outcome measure validation and biomarker discovery and
        development);
       causes and pathological events (cellular & molecular) leading to musculoskeletal diseases;
       developing, testing and validating new treatment modalities for musculoskeletal problems.

 The theme has EULAR Centre of Excellence status and has held NIHR BRC funding since 2008. MSK
 research excellence at Leeds has been highlighted in an independent RAND report as having the



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 greatest number of highly cited publications in England for musculoskeletal disease of any HEI and
 LTHT having the greatest number of publications for any NHS Trust.

 Research Groups

   i. Immune Mediated Inflammatory Diseases
 Our research in IMIDs brings together expertise in inflammatory arthritis throughout its continuum;
 from at risk individuals, to pre-clinical disease through to remission or resistance (Emery, Ponchel,
 Mankia); autoimmune connective tissue disease which focuses on laboratory, imaging and
 outcomes approaches to understand overlapping systemic diseases resulting in inflammation in
 multiple organs (Vital, Wittmann, Del Galdo, Mackie); dermato-rheumatology, identifying triggers of
 conditions which affect the skin and musculoskeletal compartment (Wittmann, Shams); and
 autoinflammatory diseases investigates the genetic basis and mechanisms of impaired responses to
 biologics therapy in rheumatoid arthritis and the pathogenesis of systemic autoinflammatory disorders
 and primary immunodeficiencies. (McDermott, Savic). The group works closely with Wilcox and
 dentistry (Devine, UoA3), exploring the human microbiome in the prevention of immune mediated
 disease.

   ii. Osteoarthritis
 Bringing together researchers committed to improving the treatment and consequences of OA, this
 group comprises expertise in Non-inflammatory Musculoskeletal Disease, which aims to improve
 the treatment and outcomes of people with common disorders such as OA, tendinitis and multisite joint
 pain (Conaghan, Kingsbury); Orthopaedics & Trauma Science conducts translational and basic
 science research in the fields of fracture and its sequalae, OA – aetiopathogenesis, diagnosis and
 treatment (Giannoudis, Pandit, van Duren, Howard); Regenerative Medicine investigates the
 biology of human mesenchymal stem cells in health and pathological conditions including OA and bone
 fracture (McGonagle, Jones,E); and Rehabilitation Medicine which focuses on developing and
 testing treatments that restore people’s independence, dignity and quality of life (O’Connor, Sivan).

 Underpinning both groups are our capabilities in imaging (Conaghan, Wakefield, Tan), which have
 been instrumental in developing the use of modern imaging, especially MRI and ultrasound, to study
 pathogenesis, stratification for intervention, outcome measurement and care pathway evolution across
 the rheumatic and musculoskeletal disorders (Section 1.6.2).

 Research and Impact Highlights

 Emery, Conaghan, Ponchel & Wakefield developed imaging scores and biomarkers in rheumatoid
 arthritis to optimise remission induction and allow safe discontinuation of drugs when in remission
 [ICS#UOA1-8]. Conaghan conducted randomised trials demonstrating benefit of secukinumab in
 psoriatic arthritis [UoA1-623], cathepsin K inhibition in OA [UoA1-621] and excluding the utility of
 acupuncture in chronic knee pain [UoA1-625]. Del Galdo revealed a novel mechanism involving
 BRISC–SHMT2 assembly by which metabolites regulate inflammatory signalling [UoA1-2384]. Emery
 demonstrated that hematopoietic stem cell transplantation improved event-free survival in systemic
 sclerosis [UoA1-424], secukinumab reduced signs and symptoms in ankylosing spondylitis [UoA1-425],
 upadacitinib monotherapy improved outcomes in methotrexate-unresponsive rheumatoid arthritis
 [UoA1-423] and tapering of etanercept resulted in better disease control in rheumatoid arthritis [UoA1-
 422]. Helliwell showed that the established benefits of early intervention and tight control of
 inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis were also achievable in psoriatic arthritis [UoA1-518]. Mackie found
 risk alleles in plasminogen, P4HA2 and the HLA Class II Region associated with giant cell arteritis
 [UoA1-1630] and used meta-analysis to identify informative clinical and laboratory features in its
 diagnosis [UoA1-1631]. McGonagle established the importance of enthesitis as a key pathological

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 lesion in the pathogenesis of spondyloarthritis conditions, including psoriatic arthritis [UoA1-1288]. This
 has resulted in a shift towards early therapy, inclusion of enthesitis as an outcome measure in psoriatic
 arthritis trials, and widespread adoption of ultrasound in clinical practice for the evaluation of the
 entheses as a cause of joint pain in psoriatic arthritis.

 O’Connor has reviewed orthotic management of instability of the knee related to neuromuscular and
 central nervous system disorders [UoA1-1768]. Pandit demonstrated lower occurrence of
 complications, readmission, and mortality, following uni-compartmental knee replacement surgery
 compared to total knee replacement [UoA1-3610]. Ponchel established the value of a flowcytometry
 test for the management of early rheumatoid arthritis [UoA1-678], has transferred this technology to the
 NHS and established an industrial collaboration to develop a kit for worldwide use. Stewart has linked
 across cardiometabolic and MSK research themes defining the detrimental effects of glucocorticoids
 [UoA1-2840, UoA1-2841, UoA1-4710]. Vital discovered that non-hematopoietic cellular sources, rather
 than plasmacytoid dendritic cells, are responsible for interferon production prior to clinical autoimmunity
 in systemic lupus erythematosus [UoA1-1777].

 Key funding awards

 Centre / Strategic / Infrastructure Awards: NIHR Leeds BRC award (Emery £6.7M). Leeds Cares BRC
 MRI Scanner Equipment Grant (Emery/Conaghan £1M + £1M matched funding by UoL). x 3 Wellcome
 Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund across REF period (Stewart £1M)

 Personal Awards: NIHR towards UK poSt Arthroplasty Follow-up recommendation: UK SAFE
 (Conaghan £1.1M). NIHR ALPHA (Wittman £2.1M). NIHR HTA grant for assessing safety and efficacy
 of knee distraction in treating knee OA (£1.6M Pandit). Several partnerships in EU consortia (Emery,
 Ponchel, McDermott, Jones,E, Giannoudis, McGonagle total award of £2.4M) and MRC-ABPI
 consortium (Emery, Ponchel, McDermott £3.5M). ERC advanced grant PRECORT (Stewart €2.5M).
 Several academics in this theme held NIHR personal fellowships (Mackie, Tan, Del Galdo, Vital
 £3.4M) and our staff have been integral to the success of 6 NIHR Integrated Clinical Academic
 Fellowships (4 doctoral and 2 post-doctoral awards £2.4M).

 1.5.4. Rare Diseases Research

 Our Rare Diseases theme combines research in “rare” inherited and acquired disorders, using clinical
 genetics, bioinformatics and functional studies to exploit our rich resource of genomic data and
 human tissue samples. There are currently over 6000 inherited rare diseases which affect 30 million
 people across Europe. The genetic basis of only around half of these diseases has been discovered to
 date, with identification of the remainder along with genotype-phenotype associations remaining a
 major challenge.

     Our grand clinical challenge is to improve clinical management and patient outcomes for rare
     diseases through accurate and rapid diagnosis and the development of innovative treatments.

 Research in inherited rare diseases builds on our long-standing strengths in clinical genetics,
 phenotyping and the identification of the molecular causes of rare inherited disorders which were
 highlighted in REF2014 sub-panel feedback as one of the strongest aspects of our outputs submission.
 Customary consanguineous marriage in surrounding communities increases the prevalence of
 recessive disorders: this creates challenges for the diagnosis and clinical management of patients
 and families but means that research findings often address immediate and local clinical needs.




                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The focus on gene discovery and delineation of genotype-phenotype correlations is complemented
 by population-level epidemiology through the “Born in Bradford” MRC cohort study and by our
 capabilities in big data, facilitated by the Leeds Institute for Data Analytics, described in detail in our
 crosscutting Data Science theme. UoA1 researchers in inherited rare diseases have identified >100
 new disease genes leading to accurate molecular diagnosis, carrier testing for families, genetic
 counselling and new therapies [ICS#UOA1-9]. Our research in rare diseases is supported by the
 acquisition of samples through the NIHR Leeds BioResource Centre (Director Savic) described in
 Section 3. UoA1 academics lead on the Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia (Peckham) and the Autoimmune
 Vasculitis (Morgan) components of the Rare Diseases cohort.

 Research groups

 Researchers in inherited Rare Diseases bring together expertise in molecular genetics, functional
 genomics and bioinformatics spanning a wide range of conditions with focus on the following:

   i.     Neurodevelopmental and developmental conditions
 Sheridan, Bonthron, Bond, Johnson, Peckham focus on molecular genetics and functional
 genomics as applied to a range of developmental conditions including ciliopathies and
 centrosomopathies. Poulter (UKRI Future Leaders Fellow) is investigating potential therapeutic
 strategies of mTOR inhibition for megalencephaly and haematological malignancies;

  ii.   Neuromuscular and muscular dystrophies
 Sheridan, Johnson, Shaw focus on inherited neuromuscular disorders and muscular dystrophies.
 Hopkins leads the National Centre for Malignant Hyperthermia Research;

  iii.   Inherited retinal dystrophies and structural eye disorders
 Toomes, Ali with Inglehearn (UoA4) and NHS ophthalmologists McKibbin & Khan focus on inherited
 eye disease including aniridia and anterior segment dysgenesis;

   iv. Bioinformatics, data analytics, genomic innovation
 Bonthron, Sheridan, Markham and Carr have developed widely used programs that make analysis
 and visualization of next generation sequencing and functional genomics data accessible to non-
 specialists;

  v.    Primary immunodeficiencies
 Savic, McDermott, Doody focus on diagnosis and novel therapeutics for primary immunodeficiencies;

   vi. Acquired rare diseases
 This links with our Cancer, Musculoskeletal and Cardiometabolic Themes, with strengths in auto-
 inflammatory disorders (Savic), autoimmune vasculitides including giant cell arteritis (Morgan),
 scleroderma (Del Galdo) and paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (Hillmen);

 The new Leeds Centre for Disease Modelling (DiMo) (Johnson with Ladbury UoA5) brings together
 clinical and basic biological researchers in Rare Diseases. The aim is to enhance studies that are
 clinically relevant using new methods such as gene editing, and to enable clinicians - working in the
 areas of inherited retinal disease, macular degeneration, clinical genetics and paediatric neurology - to
 move their research into studies in basic and translational bioscience.




                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research and Impact Highlights

 Sheridan identified a range of disease-causing genetic mutations leading to enhanced diagnosis
 [UoA1-1116; UoA1-1115; UoA1-1117; ICS#UOA1-9]. Johnson identified genes implicated in
 ciliogenesis and disease-causing ciliopathies [UoA1-1958; UoA1-1959; UoA1-1960; UoA1-1961]. Carr
 developed m6aViewer, a cross-platform application for identifying methylated residues in transcriptome
 wide-profiling (RNA). Bonthron & Carr developed Gene TIssue Expression Ranker (GeneTIER), a
 web-based application for candidate gene prioritisation in next generation sequencing [UoA1-844].
 Hillmen has undertaken extensive research to improve lives and transform services for paroxysmal
 nocturnal haemoglobinuria. McDermott and Savic identified responsiveness to the IL-1 receptor
 antagonist Anakinra in inflammatory diseases leading to its clinical use in a range of rare inflammatory
 and autoimmune disorders. Doody implicated IRF8 in dendritic cell development and immundeficiency
 due to deficiency of natural killer cells [UoA1-1193; UoA1-4605].

 Key Funding Awards

 Infrastructure Awards: MRC Infrastructure for Collaboration award funded the Leeds MRC Medical
 Bioinformatics Centre (Markham £7M). MRC clinical infrastructure funding for Sequential Isolation,
 Manipulation, Observation and Analysis of Single Cells-SIMOA (Bonthron £1.1M).

 Programme/Project Awards: Sir Jules Thorn Biomedical Award for Translational Research for gene
 discovery and molecular diagnosis in local communities (Johnson £1.2M). MRC award for functional
 genomics of ciliopathy (Johnson £0.6M).

 1.6. Cross Cutting Themes

 1.6.1. HealthTech Innovation

 Working collaboratively across UoAs including close links with physical sciences, computing and
 engineering, researchers in UoA1 lead major initiatives to drive innovation and deliver impact through
 a range of Healthcare Technologies. Supported by NIHR infrastructure including our Surgical
 Technologies (Jayne and Quyn) and In Vitro Diagnostic Co-operatives, and aligned with a Leeds City
 strategic priority, the SoM has strategically invested in in this theme through cross-faculty
 appointment of senior academics (Frangi (UoA11) appointed jointly by SoM/School of Computing).
 Continued strategic investment in Health Technologies by UoL is reflected in the launch in 2020 of a
 new Centre for Responsive HealthTech Innovation (Directors: Jayne, Frangi) with the vision ‘to
 transform Leeds into one of the most connected, innovation-driven, and challenge-led Healthtech
 ecosystems worldwide from where to drive global transformations in healthcare’.

 A wide spectrum of Healthcare Technology innovation is delivered by UoA1 academics spanning
 innovative devices and novel diagnostics. We foster the development of news talent through our
 interdisciplinary PGR funding streams (such as the UKRI Centre for Doctoral Training in Artificial
 Intelligence for Cancer Diagnosis and Care). Pathways to impact include dissemination through the
 NHS via our NIHR infrastructure; global reach is assured by initiatives including the £2M NIHR Global
 Health Research Group in Surgical Technologies, led by Jayne, which addresses unmet surgical needs
 in low- and middle-income countries including North India and Sierra Leone.

 Research and Impact Highlights

 Kearney and Hall,AS clinically validated a portable magnetometer device for the detection of
 cardiovascular disease, invented by Varcoe (UoA9), leading to the UoL spin-out company Creavo

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Medical Technologies Ltd. Jayne (with Brown,J (UoA2)), showed in the international ROLAAR
 randomised trial that robotic surgery is comparable to conventional laparoscopic approach for curative
 rectal cancer surgery [UoA1-586; ICS#UOA1-2]. They developed an International Surgical Trials Toolkit
 available to the global research community to guide the design and delivery of surgical trials. Mathew
 is the neurosurgical lead of the Surgical MIC, investigating devices and immersive technologies in brain
 tumour surgery. O’Connor with Dehghani-Sanij (UoA12), Richardson (UoA12) and Mon Williams
 (UoA4) employ robotics and immersive technologies in assisting humans and rehabilitation. Pandit and
 van Duren are using AI and biosensors in arthritis and orthopaedic surgery. Plein and Frangi (UoA11)
 apply computational approaches and artificial intelligence to refine cardiovascular magnetic resonance
 imaging (MRI). Valdastri (UoA12) (Director of Storm Lab UK) and Jayne have developed a magnetic
 flexible endoscope to allow safer, easier and more affordable investigation of the large intestine – first
 in man trials are planned in 2021. Wilcox received £2M funding from PHE for TARGETED AMR, using
 cutting edge technology to improve the speed and accuracy of diagnostics and infection modelling.
 Other areas of strength in medical diagnostics technologies led by UoA1 include digital pathology
 (West), molecular cancer diagnostics (Quirke) and cancer chemotherapy (Seymour, Seligmann).
 PinPoint Data Science Ltd (based in NEXUS) has developed and is validating an AI-based decision
 support tool for the early detection of cancer (Chair of Scientific Advisory Board: Selby).

 1.6.2. Imaging

 Research in imaging applied to the detection, treatment and surveillance of human disease spans
 our disease-specific areas of research focus and has strong links with computing (UoA11) and the
 Clinical Trials Unit (UoA2). Our strategic investment in imaging infrastructure is described in Section 3
 and includes the Advanced Imaging Centre (AIC) incorporating the National Centre for Hyperpolarised
 MRI, the experimental Preclinical imaging Centre (ePiC) and the £2M Leeds BRC Imaging Centre (£1M
 Leeds Care funding, matched by UoL investment).

 Research and Impact Highlights

 Plein (£1.1M BHF Chair, £1M BHF Programme, £4.6M MRC Centre) develops and validates novel MRI
 methodologies with focus on myocardial perfusion assessment [UoA1-1242] and the effects of diabetes
 on the heart. Greenwood led the BHF-funded CE-MARC [ICS#UOA1-6] and CE-MARC-2 studies
 [UoA1-3565] which established cardiovascular MRI in assessment of suspected coronary artery
 disease – incorporated in the 2019 international guidelines of the European Society of Cardiology.
 Dall’Armellina is developing novel cardiac diffusion MRI techniques to risk-stratify people with
 hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (£192K Heart Research UK). Bissell is developing 4D flow MRI in
 congenital heart disease [UoA1-3505]. Levelt uses MRI to study early metabolic remodelling of the
 heart in diabetes [UoA1-3840]. Conaghan focuses on musculoskeletal imaging (especially MRI) for
 detailed studies of pathogenesis and disease stratification for intervention. Wakefield has pioneered
 the use of ultrasound technology in MSK medicine [UoA1-1225; UoA1-1226; UoA1-1227] - his work
 has contributed to guidelines used worldwide. Tan is investigating quantitative MRI in muscle imaging
 in inflammatory arthritis [UoA1-1611]. Sebag-Montefiore and Frangi are using artificial intelligence
 analysis of MRI scans to personalise radiotherapy for patients across a range of cancers (£3.5M CRUK
 – part of the UK-wide RADNET radiotherapy network).

 1.6.3. Data Science

 This theme utilises bioinformatic, epidemiological and analytical approaches to exploit large and
 complex health datasets spanning cancer, cardiovascular disease, nutrition and multimorbidity.
 Benefitting from close collaborations with colleagues in UoAs 2, 4, 11 & 14, Data Science research in
 UoA1 is hosted in the interdisciplinary environment of LIDA – co-directed by Markham, Birkin (UoA14)

                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Gale (UoA2). Described further in Section 3.2, LIDA brings together >150 researchers and data
 scientists and hosts the Leeds components of the Health Data Research UK Northern site (HDR UK
 North) and the Hub for Cancer Data (DATA-CAN). Moreover, LIDA leads the University’s partnership
 with the Alan Turing Institute, with 26 Turing Fellows including UoA1’s Bishop and Morris.

 Research and Impact Highlights

 Glaser focuses on quality of survival in people living with and beyond cancer [UoA1-1341; UoA1-1342;
 UoA1-1343]. Hall,AS identified genetic variants associated with coronary heart disease [UoA1-248;
 UoA1-249]. Hall,G leads the HDR UK-funded activity within LIDA. He combines research in cancer
 informatics and data analytics [UoA1-849] with leadership of the informatics strategy at LTHT including
 the Leeds integrated digital health and social care record. Hall,M (Sir Henry Wellcome Fellow) applies
 advanced analytical techniques to electronic healthcare data, with a particular focus on survivorship
 and multimorbidity [UoA1-2311; UoA1-2312; UoA1-2313]. Iles designs and analyses population-based
 genetic epidemiology studies and carries out methodological research related to genetic epidemiology
 [UoA1-1770; UoA1-1771; UoA1-1772]. Morris (UAF, Turing Fellow and Director- ESRC Strategic
 Network for Obesity) uses new and emerging forms of data to study spatial and social variations in diet,
 lifestyle and health [UoA1-2510]. Rowe – academic hepatologist investigates outcomes of patients with
 cirrhosis and of patients undergoing liver transplantation [UoA1-3306].

 LIDA is committed to training a new generation of scientists who will apply health informatics and
 artificial intelligence to clinical medicine, and hosts the UKRI Centre for Doctoral Training in Artificial
 Intelligence for Medical Diagnosis and Care. LIDA also hosts an MSc in Health Data Science and an
 MRes in Data Science and Analytics for Health - developed in partnership with the Data, Insights and
 Analytics Directorate at NHS Digital.

 Section 2. People

 Staffing and academic staff development

 2.1.   Overview

 Our strategy invests in people to deliver excellence in biomedical, translational and clinical research
 (Figure 1). We have achieved a core of world-leading investigators in each of our research focus
 areas through prioritising strategic recruitment, retention, and career development. Integration and
 team science are evidenced by clinical academics working alongside biomedical and applied health
 scientists across all our research areas. We have an ongoing commitment to EDI in UoA1 and across
 the University as a whole. Managerially, and for purposes of research governance, staff development
 and support, our students and staff are organised into six Institutes with themed research occurring
 across Institutes, Schools and Faculties.

 2.2.   Recruitment and Promotion

 We have sought new external appointments (Table 1) and supported career progression of our home-
 grown academics in each of our research themes. Key to this success has been the University’s
 Academic Fellowship (UAF) scheme (REF5a), committed to recruiting 250 future academic leaders
 to a five-year tenure track development scheme leading to a permanent Associate Professor post.




                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Table 1: new appointments to UoA1 during assessment period
  Research          Appointmentab          Name of recruit           Area/Expertise
  Theme
  Cancer            Chair                  Klein                     Immunology & Haemato-
  Research                                                           oncology
                    UAF                    Seligman                  Colorectal cancer outcomes
                    UAF                    Matthews                  Nuclear receptors
                    UAF                    Papa                      Programmed cell death
                    UAF                    Mitra                     Microbial bioinformatics
                    UAF                    Chilton                   Antimicrobial resistance
                    Lecturer               Ilett                     Oncolytic viruses
                    Lecturer               Newton                    Haematological disorders
  Cardiometabolic Chair                    Naseem                    Platelet biology
  Research          Chair                  Morgan                    Vascular inflammation
                    Chair (Wellcome        Schneider                 Pre-clinical MRI
                    Trust Investigator)
                    UAF (Sir Henry Dale Hall,M                       Survivorship and
                    Wellcome Fellow)                                 multimorbidity
                    UAF (Sir Henry Dale Macrae                       Biofilms and infection
                    Wellcome Fellow)
                    UAF (BHF               Meakin                    Amyloid in vascular biology
                    Intermediate Basic
                    Science Fellow)
                    UAF (BHF               Shi                       Endothelial ion channels
                    Intermediate Basic
                    Science Fellow)
                    Clinical Research      Levelt                    Cardiac MRI/energetics
                    Fellow
                    Research Fellow        Tiganescu                 Wound healing, diabetes.
                    (AMS Springboard)
  Musculoskeletal Chair (NIHR Senior       Pandit                    Orthopaedic Science
  Research          Investigator)
                    Associate Professor Mankia                       Rheumatology
                    Associate Professor Sivan                        Rehabilitation Medicine
                    Associate Professor Shams                        Inflammatory skin disorders
                    Associate Professor Del Galdo                    Scleroderma
                    (NIHR Career
                    Development
                    Fellow)
  Rare Diseases     Chair                  Peckham                   Primary cilia dyskinesia; cystic
  Research                                                           fibrosis and medical
                                                                     informatics
                    UAF (UKRI Future       Poulter                   Neurodevelopmental
                    Leaders Fellow)                                  disorders
  Others            Chair                  Houghton                  Neurogastroenterology
     a. UAFs recruited and subsequently promoted to Associate Professor are included in Table 2
     b. We have supported recruited staff in successful bids for independent fellowships (italics)



                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have provided career development support and mentorship to secure promotion of academic staff
 in UoA1 (Table 2). Of the thirty UAFs in UoA1, ten have been promoted to Associate Professor and
 eight have secured independent research fellowships.

  Table 2: promotions in UoA1 during assessment period
  Research theme Promoted to Name                                Research area
  Cancer            Chair         Cook,GP                        Molecular and cellular
  Research                                                       mechanisms of immunity
                                  Hall,G                         Cancer informatics and data
                                                                 analytics
                                   Tooze                         B-cell malignancies
                    Assoc          Griffin,S                     Viral oncology
                    Professor      Lorger                        Cancer biology
                                   Mathew (Neurosurgical         Glioma and neurosurgical
                                   Lead, Leeds NIHR Surgical     innovation
                                   MIC)
                    Assoc          West                          Colorectal cancer
                    Professor      Samson (CRUK Clinician        Oncolytic-virus immunotherapy
                    from UAF       Scientist)
                                   Salmond                       T-cell mediated immunity
                                   Stead (UKRI Future            Bioinformatics
                                   Leaders Fellow)
                                   Riobo-Del Galdo (joint with   Cancer biology
                                   Faculty of Biological
                                   Sciences)
                                   Appelt (Yorkshire Cancer      Radiotherapy
                                   Research Fellow)
                                   Murray (Yorkshire Cancer      Re-irradiation and radiotherapy
                                   Research Fellow)
  Cardiometabolic Chair            Philippou                     Anti-coagulation therapeutics
  Research                         Scott                         Maternal diabetes
                                   Hardie                        Nutrition and metabolism
                                   Ajjan                         Diabetes and thrombosis
                                   Wheatcroft (ERC Fellow –      Insulin resistance and vascular
                                   Starting Grant)               biology
                    Associate      Saha                          Stroke, Biosensors
                    Professor      Turner                        Cardiac fibrosis
                                   Bon                           Ion channels
                                   Forbes                        Foetal growth restriction
                    Assoc          Bailey (BHF Intermediate      Smooth muscle in aneurysms
                    Professor      Clinical Research Fellow)
                    from UAF       Cubbon (BHF Intermediate      Angiogenesis in diabetes
                                   Clinical Research Fellow)
                                   Dall’Armellina (BHF           Diffusion tensor MRI,
                                   Intermediate Clinical         myocardial infarction imaging
                                   Research Fellow)
                                   Forde                         Platform science


                                                                                        Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                       McKeown                        Endothelial stimulus-coupled
                                                                      secretion
                                    Roberts (Diabetes UK RD           Metabolism and obesity
                                    Lawrence Fellow)
                                    Sukumar                           Ion channels in vascular biology
  Musculoskeletal Associate         Vital                             Connective diseases
  Research          Professor       Kingsbury                         Osteoarthritis
                                    Ponchel                           Translational research
  Independent research fellowship awards are indicated in italics.

 2.3.   Our People Strategy

 Having recruited and retained the best possible staff we aim to support their development through all
 stages of their careers through the following approaches:

 2.3.1. Pump-priming and independent research fellowships

 We actively encourage our staff to apply for prestigious and competitive personal research fellowships
 to enhance their development and the vitality of their research groups. Career progression to this stage
 is facilitated by internal pump priming funds, Wellcome ISSF, the LTHT charity (Leeds Cares), and
 Academy of Medical Sciences schemes such as Springboard to fund critical career transition points.
 Thirty-five academics in UoA1 held independent fellowship during the assessment period, including
 NIHR research professorship (Jayne); BHF Senior Research Fellowships (Schneider, Plein); NIHR
 Clinician Scientist Fellowships (Mackie, Vital, Tan); NIHR Career Development Fellowship (Del
 Galdo); NIHR Post-Doctoral Fellowship (Gierula); British Heart Foundation Intermediate Clinical
 Research Fellowships (Cubbon, Dall’Armellina, Bailey); British Heart Foundation Intermediate Basic
 Science Fellowship (Shi, Meakin); Sir Henry Wellcome Fellowships (Hall,M, Macrae); Diabetes UK
 RD Lawrence Fellowship (Roberts); CRUK Senior Clinical Fellowship (Short); Cancer Research UK
 Clinical Trials Fellowship (Seligman, Gilbert); Cancer Research UK Clinician Scientist Fellowship
 (Samson); and UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship (Stead).

 2.3.2. Appraisal and promotion

 The UoL Staff Review and Development Scheme (SRDS) reviews each individual’s progress against
 agreed objectives: training, personal development opportunities and pathways to promotion are
 emphasised. All reviewers must undertake EDI training and all promotion panellists unconscious bias
 training.

 Annual Academic Meetings (AAM) were introduced in 2017. At the AAM academic staff meet with their
 Institute Director and Director of Research and Innovation to discuss their academic profiles and
 ambitions. The purpose of the AAM is to encourage a two-way conversation to support development of
 academic plans in the context of the School’s strategy and to identify support needed to assist the staff
 achieving their goals.

 Supporting junior academic staff through the promotions process is of critical importance. A Promotions
 Coaching Scheme to support high quality promotion applications was piloted in 2016 and rolled out in
 2017. To date, 26 people (77% female) have received or are being actively coached for promotion,
 including clinical and basic science academic, technical and support staff. Eighteen staff have
 volunteered as coaches (44% female) on the scheme and 100% of these promotion applications were
 successful. The number of successful promotion applications has increased from 6 (33% female) over

                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the four years before inception of the scheme to 19 (74% female) over the three years since the scheme
 started.

 We recognise impact beyond academia as a key criterion for staff recruitment and promotion. We use
 AAMs to agree appropriate investment (e.g. workload and other resources) and targets (monitoring and
 evaluation) to sustain impact activity (all phases of the lifecycle) and delivery. We provide individually
 tailored support (e.g. through impact accelerator funds) so that academics at all career stages
 experience a healthy impact culture. This helps our staff to grow their research area and its impact.

 2.3.3. Training and continuing professional development

 Staff in UoA1 benefit from the University’s excellent Organisational Development and Professional
 Learning Department (OD&PL), which provides a wide range of training and personal development
 courses, often tailored to the needs of specific staff groups/Schools/Faculties. In response to a review
 of leadership behaviours across the University, OD&PL have developed a Leadership Excellence
 Behaviours Framework in order to foster a positive and impactful working environment. The Framework
 is supported by leadership training programme, which are targeted towards different levels of
 leadership, including leading self, leading others and leading the university. Through these measures
 the school has delivered representative gender balance across its senior leadership though there is
 more to do on ethnicity balance.

 2.3.4. Supporting our Leaders of the Future

 Career development support for early career investigators is strongly prioritised. Mentorship is available
 both internally and externally. The University provides a central mentoring scheme, which was joined
 by 152 members of staff with the Faculty of Medicine and Health since 2016 (80% female). Clinical
 academic staff are signposted to external schemes including the Academy of Medical Sciences (AMS),
 onto which 5 male and 3 female clinical academics have enrolled.

 A variety of initiatives support early career researchers in UoA1 (further support for clinical academics
 is described in 2.6):

       Post-Doc Research Academy - an initiative to support the career development of our post-
        doctoral researchers which consists of a website, seminar series, and fellowship application
        support sessions;
       NIHR@Leeds Early Career Research Network - a UoL/LTHT initiative to develop clinical
        academic researchers supported by the BRC. The remit of this group is to promote academic
        careers and provide support in developing fellowship applications;
       Joint UoL-LTHT Clinical Academic Office – to support clinical academic careers across the
        partnership, with a key aim of facilitating women in clinical academic careers;
       School of Medicine Early Careers Group – a School group which focuses on the needs of early
        academic researchers, particularly translational;
       Academic Development Fund - to allow researchers to maintain career development following
        an extended period of leave. We have made 20 awards in UoA1 (£247,066) since 2015, largely
        to female staff returning from maternity leave and have strategically deployed this funding to
        help with COVID-19 mitigation.

 2.4.   Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 Since 2014 we have made significant steps to develop a school culture that will maximise the potential
 of all our staff to deliver excellent research. We have developed processes to capture and monitor our

                                                                                               Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 EDI progress: in the SoM, 13% of academic staff and 25% of our PGRs are known to be from a Black,
 Asian or Minority Ethnic group. Fifty-nine percent of our academic and research staff identify as female.

 The School has invested significantly in promoting equality. In 2020 we appointed the first School
 Associate Dean for Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion in the University (Bryant UoA2). We have
 committed to the BMAs Charter for Medical Schools to prevent and tackle racial harassment, recruiting
 to three new roles: a Freedom to Speak Up Guardian, Race Equality Project Officer and EDI co-
 ordinator. Nationally we are the first medical school to achieve a Gold Athena SWAN Award,
 demonstrating a strong commitment to champion and promote gender equality and the impacts of
 intersectionality between gender and other characteristics. We have also invested in opportunities,
 including sponsorship of eight career development programmes such as Aurora (Leadership
 Foundation for Women), financial support of the Leeds Female Leaders Network and funding of
 externally delivered unconscious bias training for all staff.

 We have a very active School EDI Committee comprising members from each Institute’s EDI working
 group, the leads of which also sit on Institute Senior Management Teams. Our priorities and action
 plans for staff and students centre on improving mental health and well-being, ensuring inclusion and
 equality for those identifying as LGBTQ+, improving opportunities and access for those with a disability,
 and identifying barriers for career progression associated with ethnicity and religion. We are committed
 to research-informed EDI activities and have published on gender equality interventions in medical
 schools and mentoring as a complex intervention to address gender inequality.

 We demonstrate leadership on national issues, for example, initiating a reciprocal agreement with the
 local NHS to honour terms and conditions for clinical staff on the Integrated Training Pathway to support
 clinical academics taking maternity/adoption leave: this is now national practice and recognised as good
 practice externally. Other initiatives include:

         Enhanced flexible working provision, including guarantees to staff who reduce their hours that
          they can return to their original hours on request within 5 years;
         Extension of fixed-term contracts to the end of a period of maternity leave to ensure access to
          redeployment and other support;
         Raising awareness in staff and students of what is considered unacceptable behaviour,
          including sexual harassment, and how to report it. SoM led on the University’s new staff Code
          of Conduct and mandatory staff training which addresses these issues;
         Career coaching for staff seeking promotion to improve the number of women at senior levels.
          Since 2014 there have been an equal number of female and male applications to Professor and
          an equal success rate;
         With LTHT, we developed the Leeds Female Leaders Network (800 members) to support our
          female leaders across the organisations.

 Our EDI plan for the next five years focuses on the following priority areas in promoting equality,
 inclusion and diversity in our research culture:

     i.   Increasing the proportion of female and BAME academics in senior roles and appointing Ajjan
          to provide leadership to this initiative;
   ii.    Creating parity of career development for staff on fixed-term contracts and a move towards a
          more sustainable career path for researchers;
   iii.   Identifying and tackling intersectionality issues of gender, race and disability, to understand the
          impact on research career development and progression.



                                                                                                 Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our goals for EDI align with the University’s EDI Framework (2020–2025). Our Equality Policy Unit
 (EPU) used an Equality Impact Assessment to develop our REF mitigating circumstances policy. The
 EPU will interrogate our REF data by gender and other protected characteristics, to enable comparisons
 to previous returns and identify further priority areas for our attention.

 2.5.   Post-graduate Research Students

 We recognise doctoral training as an essential contributor to the vitality and sustainability in clinical
 medicine. During the assessment period, 434 doctorates were awarded to PGRs supervised by UoA1
 academics.

 2.5.1. UoL Doctoral College

 The UoL is committed to promote a vibrant PhD and postdoctoral community and has invested in
 several initiatives to embed a culture in which our PGRs can thrive (REF5a). PhD supervisory teams in
 UoA1 all have strong research orientated programmes, with each team having at least one highly
 experienced academic with a proven track-record of postgraduate degree completion. We provide a
 structured environment within stimulating and active research settings where PGRs are encouraged to
 mix with other trainees as well as post-doctoral researchers and clinicians. Our academics do more
 than academic supervision: they instill a strong ethical approach and understanding of governance,
 relying on all to take responsibility to cultivate the research mind-set, to produce highly trained
 individuals of a quality that will make them strongly competitive in the employment market.

 2.5.2. PhD Programmes and Doctoral Training Platforms

 UoA1 academics lead or contribute to a range of PhD programmes, key examples over the assessment
 period including:

       Cancer research is underpinned by an extensive training platform, including the YCR Academic
        Fellowship Platform which supported 8 PhD students affiliated with 9 UAFs (£4M);
       BHF 4-year PhD in Cardiovascular Disease & Diabetes – launched in 2017 following an
        internally funded pilot and subsequently supported by a £2.4M award from the BHF, this
        programme was renewed for a further four years in December 2020. The scheme has attracted
        16 students, all from Russell Group universities (or international equivalents), 14 with 1st class
        honours in their undergraduate degree;
       4-year International PhD academy: Cardiovascular & Metabolic Disease – launched in 2018,
        this programme provides orientation and research skills training in the first year to overseas
        graduates wishing to undertake Cardiometabolic research at the University of Leeds, followed
        by a three-year PhD. To date 13 students have been recruited from Saudi Arabia (9), Kuwait
        (2), Botswana (1) and Malaysia (1) with four students holding offers for 2021;
       4-year International PhD academy: Medical Research – this programme, started in 2020,
        includes taught modules in Research Methods and Paper Criticism during year 1 followed by a
        research project;
       Medtronic Clinical PhD training programme in Cardiovascular Research (£450k industry
        funding);
       UKRI Centre for Doctoral Training in Artificial Intelligence for Medical Diagnosis and Care
        (£5.9M);
       MRC DiMEN Doctoral Training Partnership – 24 studentships are awarded per year across
        Leeds, Liverpool, Newcastle & Sheffield;



                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       4ward North Wellcome Trust Doctoral Training Platform – 25 clinical PhD studentships are
        awarded across Leeds, Manchester, Newcastle and Sheffield (£5M);
       NIHR Leeds BRC - 21 musculoskeletal researchers have been supported to undertake PhD
        and MDs.

 2.5.3. Externally Funded PhD Fellowships

 UoA1 researchers secured 122 externally funded PhD fellowships over the REF period, including 20
 NIHR, 8 Research Council, 33 Medical Charities and 2 ESRC/White Rose Fellowships. They also
 secured 52 overseas and 16 hospital funded fellowships.

 Basic research-clinical collaboration and supporting our early career researchers in the new field of
 “clinical genomics” has been underpinned by clinical training fellowships from BHF and Wellcome Trust;
 bioinformatics of genomic-level datasets is a crosscutting theme.

       CRUK Leeds-Manchester Clinical Research Training Fellowships (£0.8M investment by SoM) -
        launched in 2019, this scheme delivers Clinical Research Training Fellowships in Academic
        Pathology and Clinical Trials (6 clinical fellows);
       Erdheim Clinical PhD Fellowships in Cardiovascular Research – supported by strategic re-
        alignment of endowment funding by SoM, this scheme was launched in 2020;
       UoL 110 Anniversary Research Scholarship Scheme funded by a £100M investment in 2014
        and supporting 110 PGRs, 8 of whom were supervised by UoA1 academics.

 2.5.4. Destination of postgraduate researchers:

 During the assessment period, 434 PGRs supervised by UoA1 academics were awarded a higher
 degree. Of survey responders, 79% of postgraduate researchers awarded a PhD continued in an
 academic role and 21% were clinical researchers who secured an NHS post.

 2.6.   Clinical academic training in Leeds

 Funded by the NIHR, and in partnership with Health Education Yorkshire and Humber and our regional
 NHS Trusts, the SoM’s Integrated Academic Training (IAT) programme allows our medical and dental
 trainees to undertake research alongside their clinical training. The IAT programme at Leeds has one
 dental and five medical research strands, each overseen by a Deputy Academic Training Programme
 Director (dATPD). The Programme spans 23 clinical (led by Quirke) and five dental sub-specialties
 and has also posts in five NIHR Research Priority themes: Platform Science & Bioinformatics,
 Therapeutics/Clinical Pharmacology, Acute Care, Older People & Complex Health Needs and Mental
 Health. The Leeds IAT programme has supported 94 Academic Clinical Fellows (ACF) and 44 Clinical
 Lecturers (CL). Of these, 61% of ACFs moved into externally funded PhD/MD fellowships or directly
 into CL posts. For CLs, 25% were awarded Clinician Scientist/Intermediate fellowships and a further
 18% of CLs moved to Clinical Academic or University-funded Associate Professor tenure track posts.
 In 2020 we integrated this platform with our nursing and allied health professional training programme
 (NIHR Dean and UoL lead Keenan UoA3) to foster interprofessional training.

 2.7.   Research active NHS clinicians

 Strategic and collaborative working across the UoL/LTHT partnership provides an environment in which
 NHS-based clinical academics thrive. NHS consultants with active research portfolios are encouraged
 to apply competitively for the title of Honorary Clinical Associate Professor at the University of Leeds
 (currently 55 holders in Clinical Medicine). At a higher level, six full honorary Professorships were

                                                                                             Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 awarded to research active LTHT NHS consultants during the REF period (Callister, Duffy, Sagar,
 Scarsbrook, Toogood, Kay, Treanor). Key highlights:

       Callister leads the Yorkshire Lung Screening Trial, the largest lung cancer screening trial in the
        UK;
       Duffy is Clinical Lead for West Yorkshire and Harrogate Cancer Alliance and Strategic Clinical
        Lead for the Leeds Cancer Programme. He was the National Clinical Director for Cancer;
       Marzo-Ortega is internationally known for her research in spondylarthritis and has been
        awarded over £1M in competitive grant funding over the REF period;
       Sagar conducts research in surgery for advanced colorectal cancer, inflammatory bowel
        disease and laparoscopic surgery;
       Scarsbrook is the local lead for the National Centre for Innovative Medical Imaging (NCIMI), a
        £15M programme of work funded by Innovate UK and led by Oxford University to develop AI
        tools for use in Radiology applications;
       Toogood is the Chief Investigator for the Sunflower study, a £2.8m NIHR-funded randomised
        controlled trial to establish the clinical and cost effectiveness of expectant management versus
        pre-operative imaging with MRCP in patients with symptomatic gallstones undergoing
        laparoscopic cholecystectomy;
       Treanor has pioneered virtual histology and digital pathology [ICS#UOA1-7], leads the Centre
        for Digital Pathology Innovation at Leeds and directs the National Pathology Imaging Co-
        operative enabling Artificial Intelligence technologies within UK histopathology departments.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1.   Research income

 Over the period 2014-2020 staff in UoA1 generated £213M in research income. Research funding
 awards to UoA1 researchers totalled £269.6M during the assessment period, with major contributions
 from UK charities, UKRI and NIHR (Table 3). Examples of our major funding awards are listed in Section
 1 for each of our disease-specific research themes.

  Table 3: Research funding awards to University of Leeds during assessment period with
  UoA1 academics as principal or co-investigator
  Funding source                                                        Value (£ million)
  UK research councils                                                        66.1
  UK charities                                                                           108.6
  UK Central Government / Local Health and Hospital Authorities                           46.8
  UK Industry / Public Corporations                                                       19.4
  UK Other Sources                                                                        0.5
  EU Government                                                                           9.5
  EU Other                                                                                6.7
  Non-EU                                                                                  11.9
  TOTAL AWARDS                                                                           269.6




                                                                                              Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2.   Infrastructure and Facilities

 UoL has invested over £520M in infrastructure development (REF5a) to the benefit of UoA1 staff, who
 are participants in the following activities: Priestly International Centre for Climate, LIDA, Astbury Centre
 for Structural Molecular Biology, Bragg Centre for Materials Research, and the Global Food and
 Environment Institute. Investments supporting UoA1 intrastructure and facilities include a £41M
 refurbishment of the Worsley Building, housing the School of Medicine, a state-of-the-art pre-clinical
 imaging centre (ePiC) and the Advanced Imaging Centre (below).

 3.2.1. UoA1-Led Research Centres

 Three centres specifically underpin Cancer research:

       The Cancer Research UK Centre of Excellence for Radiotherapy Research (Sebag-Montefiore
        £3.5M 2019-2024) focuses on personalised, adaptive and novel strategies for brain, liver and
        pelvic radiotherapy for primary and recurrent cancer with a focus on patients with brain, liver
        and anorectal cancers;
       The Cancer Research UK Clinical Trials Unit (Brown,J UoA2, Sebag-Montefiore, Cook,GP
        £1.9M 2016-2022) focuses on haematology and radiotherapy clinical trials. It specialises in the
        methodology, design, delivery and analysis of innovative early phase and late phase platform
        clinical trials. that provide access to novel and innovative treatments;
       The Leeds Cancer Research Centre (Sebag-Montefiore, Ladbury UoA5) established in 2020
        combines research excellence and state-of-the-art infrastructure in discovery biology, physical
        sciences, engineering, artificial intelligence and clinical research to unlock new insights in
        cancer biology and accelerate the translation of exciting new treatments and technologies to
        improve the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of cancer.

 Three centres underpin the activities in the Cardiometabolic and Imaging Research Themes:

       The Clinical MRI Centre (led by Greenwood) was created in 1999 with funding from the British
        Heart Foundation. Since then, the centre has expanded to include a Philips 1.5T Ingenia and a
        Philips 3T Achieva MRI scanner. It supports a wide range of clinical research, playing a key role
        in delivery of cardiovascular clinical studies in UoA1, e.g. the ‘Clinical Evaluation of 3T MAgnetic
        Resonance imaging for the management of patients with Coronary heart disease’ (CE-MARC
        2, Greenwood) which demonstrated that cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) scanning could
        be used early in the diagnosis of coronary heart disease [ICS#UOA1-6];
       The Advanced Imaging Centre (directed by Plein) was created in 2017 through a £7.4M Clinical
        Research Infrastructure Initiative for a National Centre for Hyperpolarised MRI, led by the MRC
        with co-funding from Arthritis Research UK, the BHF, in collaboration with the University of York
        and Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust (£4.6M). The 500m2 centre contains a Siemens
        Prisma 3T MRI scanner with multinuclear capability, laboratory space, offices and a modern
        seminar room;
       Experimental and Preclinical Imaging Centre (ePiC) - This state-of-the-art preclinical imaging
        centre (£1.9M BHF + £4M UoL) is led by Schneider (Wellcome Trust Investigator), who has
        published widely on non-invasive imaging of the rodent heart at ultra-high magnetic fields. ePiC
        provides the latest generation of multi-modality imaging platforms, including a 7T MR system, a
        PET/SPECT/CT scanner, µCT and optical imaging all from the same vendor (Bruker, Germany)
        alongside high frequency ultrasound from FujiFilm Visualsonics.




                                                                                                 Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoL/LTHT have been successful in attracting substantial NIHR infrastructure funding. Five centres
 forming NIHR@Leeds are applied across our major reseach themes:

       The NIHR Leeds Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) (Emery £6.7M 2017-2022) allows us to
        translate basic biomedical research in musculoskeletal diseases into innovative clinical practice
        and improved patient care. Established in the first cohort of NIHR Biomedical Research Units in
        2008, the BRC brings together a vibrant cross-disciplinary team from the SoM and Faculty of
        Bioengineering, both of whom have the delivery of patient focused research driven by scientific
        evidence as the core of their activities. It underpins the Musculoskeletal and Imaging Research
        Themes;
       The NIHR Leeds In Vitro Diagnostics Co-operative (Cook,G £1.4M 2018-2022) supports the
        design and validation of new diagnostic tests. It hosts a portfolio of 68 projects, has engaged
        156 companies (62 SMEs) and has leveraged £72M in research grant funding. Interdisciplinary
        expertise is focused in Oncology, Musculoskeletal Disease, Renal Medicine and Infection
        Diagnostics. In UoA1, Emery is evaluating biomarkers for musculoskeletal disease, Seymour
        is investigating novel diagnostics for myeloma and lymphoma and Wilcox is leading research
        on infection diagnosis and management (recent SAGE appointment on COVID diagnostics),
        infection control and antimicrobial resistance;
       The Leeds NIHR surgical MedTech Co-operative (Jayne £1.4M 2018-2022) develops new
        concepts, demonstrates proof of principle and devises research protocols for new health
        technologies that are applicable across the NHS. Its aim is to improve the quality of life and
        effectiveness of healthcare services for patients undergoing colorectal, hepatobiliary and
        vascular surgery. The Co-operative has secured >£13M in research awards during the
        assessment period. Examples of collaborative working with the Faculty of Engineering and
        Physical Sciences (Valdastri, UoA12) include a £583K Cancer Research UK funded first-in-
        human study for robotic flexible endoscopes in colorectal cancer screening and a £2.7M ERC
        award for novel lifesaving magnetic tentacles to assist surgeons;
       Leeds NIHR Clinical Research Facility (CRF). Led by Twelves (£0.75M 2017-2022) the CRF
        supports early phase, experimental medicine and translational clinical trials with principle
        investigators in the Cancer, Cardiometabolic and Musculoskeletal Research themes evaluating
        drugs, cell based therapies and devices. Infrastructure investment by LTHT includes the
        completion of a new £3M core CRF at St James’s University Hospital in 2019. The CRF
        leveraged £51M research grant income during the assessment period;
       Leeds NIHR Bioresource Centre. An NIHR Bioresource in Leeds (£100k pa) was enacted in
        2018 (lead Savic). We have successfully proposed and lead on three rare disease groups
        (Systemic Sclerosis, Giant Cell Arteritis and Systemic Autoinflammatory Disease) and jointly
        lead (with Manchester and Newcastle) on the common disease group immune-mediated
        inflammatory disease (£300k pa). Leeds is the top recruiter to the research tissue bank with
        >400 volunteers enrolled since October 2018.

 Next Generation Sequencing Facility (Carr) performs a wide range of next generation sequencing
 methodologies on diverse samples of varying quality and, where necessary, develops novel sequencing
 and analysis techniques, such as de novo genome assembly, microbiome analysis, pathogenic variant
 detection and transcriptome profiling. The facility works with academic and commercial groups across
 Europe working on difficult samples not accepted by main commercial service providers. The facility is
 a core resource for the clinical genetics research undertaken in UoA1 [ICS#UOA1-9] and also
 processes several thousand patient samples per year, playing an important role in patient diagnosis
 across the Yorkshire regions.



                                                                                             Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Centre for Responsive HealthTech Innovation (Jayne, Frangi UoA11) brings together clinicians and
 industry partners to deliver world-leading, cross-disciplinary research, with value-based innovation at
 its heart. It responds rapidly to changing socio-economic needs, accelerating the transformation of
 innovation to deliver equitable, sustainable and responsible healthcare for all.

 3.2.2. UoA1 Collaborative Facilities

 Leeds Institute for Data Analytics is an interdisciplinary environment for over 150 data scientists and
 researchers from all seven faculties at UoL. Inaugurated in 2014 by bringing together the MRC Medical
 Bioinformatics Centre (described below) and ESRC Consumer Data Research Centre, LIDA supports
 £61M research across the University. LIDA provides a virtual research environment for each of the
 projects it hosts through its technology platform – the Integrated Research Campus. Research by UoA1
 academics in LIDA is described in 1.7.3.

 The £7M MRC Medical Bioinformatics Centre (formerly directed by Markham, now Gale, UoA2)
 supports ground-breaking bioinformatics research at the interface between the clinic, health records
 and high volume molecular and phenotypic data sets. Focus is on six areas: cancer genomics and
 malignant melanoma; genotype, phenotype and response to radiotherapy in rectal cancer; inherited
 rare diseases, proteomic biomarkers, patient similarity searches in lymphoma treatment; enhancing the
 value of the MRC-funded rheumatoid arthritis stratified medicine and RA-MAP consortia through linkage
 to complex data sets. The Centre has generated high impact academic outputs, including 340
 publications and has leveraged £14.4M additional funding. The Centre collaborates with a wide range
 of partners including business organisations (e.g IBM, TPP Ltd), health care providers at a national
 level (e.g The Farr Institute, Cancer Research UK) and locally (e.g LTHT, NIHR@Leeds, Leeds City
 Council).

 The Leeds Institute for Clinical Trials Research (LICTR; Director, Brown,J (UoA2) with Sebag-
 Montefiore, Cook,G) hosts the Leeds CRUK Clinical Trials Unit (Sebag-Montefiore, Cook,G £1.9M
 2018 for 5 years). LICTR also hosted the Yorkshire Cancer Research Centre for Early Phase Clinical
 Trials (£1.4M, 2014-2020) and a Myeloma UK programme grant for the Concept and Access Research
 programme (CARP; Cook,G), the Leeds In Vitro Diagnostics Co-operative, the Leeds Surgical
 Technology MIC; and Concorde, the first early phase radiotherapy trials platform (£0.8M, CRUK &
 £770K Astra Zeneca).

 The Leeds Centre for Immersive Technologies hosts ‘Robotics at Leeds’, an interdisciplinary network
 driving innovation in robotics research. It has a wide range of application areas including robotics to
 improve surgery (£1M da Vinci robot, Jayne) [ICS#UOA1-2] and rehabilitation (O’Connor).

 Other UoL Interdisciplinary Research Facilities (REF5a) utilised by researchers in UoA1 include the
 Astbury Centre for Structural Molecular Biology; The Leeds Institute for Fluid Dynamics; the Bragg
 Centre for Materials Research, including Bragg Centre PhD studentships starting October 2020 which
 encompass collaborative projects with researchers in UoA1 that involve deployment of materials
 research to medical applications.




                                                                                            Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1.   Supporting Collaboration in Research

 4.1.1. Interdisciplinary Research in Leeds

 Interdisciplinary research (IDR) is one of the core commitments of the UoL and in 2016, a Dean of
 Interdisciplinary studies was appointed (Taberner, UoA26, REF5a). In UoA1 IDR is exemplified through
 strong links between academics in Medicine and other Faculties including Biological Sciences,
 Engineering (including Electronic & Electrical Engineering, Chemistry, Mathematics, Computing), and
 Environment (including Earth & Environment, Food Science & Nutrition). 88% of academics in UoA1
 report undertaking IDR with researchers outside of their own field. During the assessment period,
 £289M of research grant income was awarded for collaborative projects including UoA1 academics and
 researchers returned in other UoAs. Section 1.6 highlights these collaborations.

 4.1.2. Regional and National collaborations

 92% of academics in UoA1 undertake collaborative work with other institutions in the UK. Our
 commitment to supporting collaboration in research nationally is demonstrated by leadership by UoA1
 academics in several areas of strategic importance. Stewart chairs the NIHR Clinical Research
 Network Co-ordinating Centre hosted by UoL (Markham is board member). Howell was Director of
 NIHR Yorkshire & Humber Clinical Research Network 2014-17. Stewart is executive board member of
 Leeds Academic Health Partnership (LAHP). As one of the biggest partnerships of its kind in the UK,
 LAHP harnesses world-class research and education, and cutting-edge clinical practice to transform
 great ideas into life-changing initiatives for the people of Leeds. Stewart was also board member of the
 Northern Health Science Alliance and is a member of the strategic advisory board to the Yorkshire and
 Humber AHSN. Markham is founding Non-Executive Director of Health Data Research-UK and Non-
 Executive Director of UK Biobank. Sebag-Montefiore chairs the National Cancer Research Institute
 (NCRI) CTRad, the clinical and translational radiotherapy working group with oversight of UK
 radiotherapy research.

 We co-fund the £10.5M Cancer Research UK Manchester-Leeds Clinical Research Training Fellowship
 programme, which provides prestigious research training to clinicians with a specialist interest in
 academic pathology and clinical trials (supported by £1M from the School of Medicine) (Brown,J
 (UoA2), Selby, Quirke).

 Academics within UoA1 have a strong track record of collaborative working through academic
 consortia, including:

       the UK Inherited Retinal Disease Consortium (Toomes with Inglehearn UoA4);
       GLASS consortium (Stead);
       Cystic Fibrosis Trust Strategic Research Centre (McDermott – Director);
       CRUK Centre of Excellence fro Radiotherapy Research (Sebag-Montefiore, Henry);
       NIHR Devices for Dignity (D4D) MedTech Co-operative (O’Connor – Deputy Clinical Director).

 Concordant with our rich data science portfolio, UoL is a partner of the Alan Turing Institute, the UK’s
 national institute for data science and artificial intelligence. In UoA1 Bishop and Morris, along with
 Gilthorpe (UoA2) are Turing Fellows. Hall,M is Multimorbidity Lead for the Turing Health Programme
 Strategic Leadership Group. Hall,G is Clinical Lead and Deputy Director of DATA-CAN, the UK’s health
 data research hub for cancer.


                                                                                             Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.1.3. International collaborations

 83% of UoA1 academics undertake International collaborative research and 51% of all our outputs have
 international co-authors. Exemplars include the £20M CRUK Grand Challenge Award (Quirke) -
 Manipulating the microbiome to beat bowel cancer - between UK, USA, Canada, Netherlands and
 Spain; the £2M NIHR Global Health Research Group in Surgical Technologies (GHRG-ST) (Jayne)
 which addresses unmet surgical needs in Arunachal Pradesh (North East India) and Sierra Leone.

 4.1.4. Commercialisation and collaboration with industry

 UoL has an excellent track record of successful research translation for patient benefit supported by
 specialist commercialisation expertise embedded in our Research & Innovation Service, based in our
 transformative hub for innovation (NEXUS) and wider Leeds Academic Health Partnership. Through
 investment in new initiatives by deployment of proof-of-concept funding (e.g. MRC CiC), our Specialist
 Research & Innovation Development Managers support academics to develop high-quality bids for
 follow on funding and support investigators with proposal development and planning, due diligence,
 market insights, patent identification and protection, as well as support for the generation of spin-out
 companies and/or licensing agreements as appropriate. Receiving the highest rank (MRC feedback
 score), our CiC portfolio has converted £2.1M of MRC CiC funding into £53.3M of follow-on funding
 (2014-), comprising £26.3M from other sources including UKRI (e.g. MRC & EPSRC), £13M from
 industry and £14.2M from Innovate UK. UOA1 academics hold 36 licencing deals with industry and filed
 19 patents during the assessment period.

 An exemplar of success in UoA1 is LUNAC Therapeutics (Philippou), spun out of UoL in 2018 following
 funding by Yorkshire Forward, MRC CiC, MRC DPFS, British Heart Foundation and Wellcome Trust
 Seeding Drug Discovery Initiative. Focusing on the development of new anticoagulants which prevent
 thrombosis without increasing bleeding risk, LUNAC Therapeutics has attracted £8.4M in follow-on
 funding, comprising £5M of Series A financing and £3.4M from Innovate UK (in partnership with UoL
 and the Medicines’ Discovery Catapult).

 4.2.   Contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.2.1. Honours, Awards and Prizes

 Emery was awarded an OBE in the 2018 Queen’s Birthday Honours lists in recognition of his
 outstanding contribution to rheumatology.

 The following academics in UoA1 received national or international awards or prizes in the reporting
 period:

 Appelt: Young Physicist of the Year, Danish Society of Physics 2017; Bailey: Raymond Limet Prize
 International Meeting of Aortic Disease 2014; Emery: Master of American College of Rheumatology
 2018; European League Against Rheumatism Meritorious Award for outstanding service to
 Rheumatology 2020; Ford: Rome Foundation-Aldo Torsoli Foundation award 2020; Giannoudis: BMA
 Medical Book Award 2015; Gierula National Healthcare Science Award for Research and Innovation
 2019; Helliwell: Master of American College of Rheumatology 2017; GRAPPA presidential award
 2018; Verna Wright prize, University of Naples 2018; Hon fellowship Royal College of Surgeons,
 University of Glasgow 2020; Howell: Royal College of Anaesthetists Macintosh Professorship 2016;
 Jayne: Bowel Cancer UK & RCS Eng Chair in Surgical Research; Knowles: British Association of
 Urological Surgeons Gold Medal 2016; Macrae: Eberhard F. Mammen Young Investigator Award 2018;
 ISTH SSC Young investigator Award 2018; Milwaukee SSC President Award ISTH SSC 2018; British

                                                                                             Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Heart Foundation Reflections of Research image of the year 2014 and 2016; Manoj: European
 Academy of Rehabilitation Medicine Prize 2014; BSRM Philip Nichols Prize in 2014; Mathew: Flame
 of Hope Award for Research Engagement, Cancer Research UK 2017; McGonagle: Verna Wright
 international lecture Prize 2017; Philadelphia medical society Prize in Rheumatology 2018; Royal
 Academy of Med Ireland Bioengineering Prize 2019; Newton-Bishop: Society for Melanoma Research
 Lifetime Achievement Award 2017; Quirke: Fellowship Ad hominem Royal College of Surgeons of
 Edinburgh 2017; Honorary Fellowship of the Faculty of Pathology, Royal College of Physicians, Ireland
 2019; Doctoris Honaris Causa. Grigore T. Popa University, Iasi, Romania 2019; Rowe: Andrew
 Burroughs Young Investigator Award for Research in Liver Transplantation, British Society for the Study
 of the Liver 2016; Roberts: Lilly Diabetes Basic Science Award Diabetes UK 2017; Sebag-Montefiore:
 Royal College of Radiologists Gold Medal 2019; Scott: Joseph Hoet Award for Research Excellence,
 European Association for the Study of Diabetes 2017; Stewart: Dale Medal Society of Endocrinology,
 International Laureate Medal – US Endocrine Society; Vital: Michael Mason Prize British Society for
 Rheumatology 2018; Emerging Leaders Award Medical Research Foundation 2018; Wheatcroft:
 British Atherosclerosis Society John French Lecturer 2015; British Cardiovascular Society Bernard &
 Joan Marshall Research Excellence Prize 2016.

 4.2.2. Senior academic positions in UoA1

       NIHR Senior Investigators (8): Jayne (Surgery), Quirke (Pathology), Hull (Gastroenterology),
        Pandit (Orthopaedics); including the following Emeritus SIs: Conaghan, Selby, Emery,
        Stewart
       British Heart Foundation Professors (2): Kearney (BHF Professor of Cardiovascular & Diabetes
        Research), Plein (BHF Professor of Cardiovascular Imaging)
       Wellcome Trust Investigators in Science (3): Ariens, Beech, Schneider
       Fellows of the Academy of Medical Sciences (9): Beech (Regional Champion for Yorkshire &
        Humberside), Bishop, Emery, Grant, Markham, Newton-Bishop, Quirke, Selby, Stewart
        (Clinical Vice-President).

 4.2.3. Scientific Leadership Roles

 UoA1 academics hold a variety of scientific leadership roles. The following are selected examples of
 leadership positions held during the assessment period:

 International scientific leadership: Ariens: President of the International Fibrinogen Research Society
 2014-2018; Conaghan: Co-executive lead of the international outcomes group OMERACT; Treasurer,
 European Foundation for Research in Rheumatology (FOREUM); Emery: Chair of FOREUM, grant-
 giving body for European Rheumatology 2011-2019; Grant: chair of European Society of Cardiology
 2019 Clinical Practice Guidelines on Diabetes, Pre-Diabetes and Cardiovascular Diseases. Hopkins:
 Chair of the European Malignant Hyperthermia Group; Markham: Chairman, the Lister Institute of
 Preventive Medicine; Peckham: Director of Education - European Cystic Fibrosis Society 2018; Picton:
 Coordinator of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology (ESHRE) Task Force on
 “Fertility preservation in severe diseases” 2010-2015; Plein: Vice President European Association of
 Cardiovascular Imaging (EACVI) of the European Society of Cardiology 2014-16; Selby: President of
 the European Cancer Concord 2014-2017.

 National scientific leadership: Ariens: President of the British Society for Haemostasis and Thrombosis
 2016-2018; Conaghan: Chair of NICE Osteoarthritis Clinical Guidelines 2014; Chair of the Arthritis
 Research UK Osteoarthritis and Crystal Disorders Clinical Studies Group 2007-2017; Cook,G: Chair
 of the UK Myeloma Research Alliance and NCRI Myeloma sub-group; Chair of UK Myeloma Forum;


                                                                                            Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Greenwood: President Elect of the British Cardiovascular Society 2020; President of British Society of
 Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance 2018-2020; Chair of the Society of Cardiovascular Magnetic
 Resonance clinical trials committee 2015-2017; Hall,M: Multimorbidity Lead, Health Programme
 Strategic Leadership Group, Alan Turing Institute, 2019-; Helliwell: President of the Group for
 Research and Assessment of Psoriasis and Psoriatic arthritis (GRAPPA) 2015-2018; Hillmen: Lead of
 the National Commissioning Group (NCG) Designated Centre for paroxysmal nocturnal
 haemoglobinuria (PNH); Hull: CRN National Speciality Lead – Gatroenterology; Jayne: Clinical
 Director for the NIHT Global Health Research Group; Markham: Chairman Northern and Yorkshire
 NHS England Genomic Laboratory Service Partnership Board, Department of Health (NIHR/MHRA)
 Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) Executive Board & Oxford CRUK Cancer Centre; Founding
 member of NHS National Genomics Board & NHS Digital, MRC/NIHR Research Advisory Group;
 Mackie: Co-chair British Society for Rheumatology Guideline on diagnosis and management of giant
 cell arteritis; Morgan: Chair UK GCA Consortium and the MRC TARGET Partnership; Newton-Bishop:
 Clinical Lead NICE Melanoma Clinical Guideline; Philippou: Scientific Secretary of the British Society
 of Haemostasis and Thrombosis 2016-; Plein: Treasurer Board of Trustees Society for Cardiovascular
 Magnetic Resonance 2020-; Quirke: Chair of the NHS Bowel Cancer Screening Programme Pathology
 Committee; President of the Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland 2015-2018; Routledge:
 Treasurer of UK Environmental Mutagen Society 2011-2018; Sandoe: Chair of the British Society for
 Antimicrobial Chemotherapy Endocarditis working party; Sebag-Montefiore: Chair of the NCRI Clinical
 and Translational Radiotherapy Research Group (CTRad) 2019-2022; Chair of the CTrad Proton Beam
 Clinical Trial Strategy Group 2018-2020; Vice Chair of the NIHR, Health Technology Assessment
 Prioritisation Panel for in hospital research 2018-2019; Selby: Trustee of Cancer Research UK 2012-
 2016; President of the Association of Cancer Physicians 2007-2018. Seymour: National Lead of NIHR
 Clinical Research Network Cluster-Cancer, Surgery, Oral/Dental Health; Clinical Research Director,
 NCRI; Simpson:CRN National Speciality Lead, Reproductive Health & Childbirth; Stewart: Executive
 Board of the Leeds Academic Health Partnership and Lead for Centre for Personalised Medicine and
 Health; Northern Health Science Alliance board of Directors; Wilcox: UK SAGE - Scientific Advisory
 Group for Emergencies – COVID-19; Co-chair of SAGE Nosocomial Transmission COVID-19
 subgroup; Lead on C. difficile infection for Public Health England; Medical Advisor to the National
 Infection Prevention & Control Lead at NHS Improvement.

 4.2.4. Representation in national or international scientific peer review

 Conaghan: Chair Versus Arthritis, Osteoarthritis and Crystal Diseases Clinical Studies Group, Versus
 Arthritis MedTech grant panel; Dall’Armellina: chair of the SCMR scientific committee and seed grant
 committee; Markham: Scientific Advisory Board Member, German Consortium for Translational Cancer
 Research of the Federal Ministry of Education and Research; Medicine Panel Member, Portuguese
 Government National Research Assessment Exercise; Panel member, Singapore National Medical
 Research Council, Translational and Clinical Research Flagship Programme; Naseem: Chair Heart
 Research UK Translation Research Panel; Peckham: Deputy chair, UK CF Trust Strategy
 Implementation Board; Sebag-Montefiore: Chair Cancer Research UK Clinical Trials Awards
 Committee; Stewart: Chair of British Heart Foundation Chairs and Programme Grants Committee;
 Chair of MRC Careers and Training Committee; Chief Scientific Adviser Scar Free Foundation.

 4.2.5. Education and training

 Training the next generation of researchers is a key priority for UoA1 and is covered in detail elsewhere
 in this statement. 40% of our academics hold dedicated roles in training of scientists or clinicians, in
 addition to their core academic role. Selected examples include PhD programme directors (Beech,
 Cubbon), clinical/academic training programme directors (Scott, Quirke, Morgan), chair of the


                                                                                              Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Interstellar programme for trainees (Emery), Director of Education – European Cystic Fibrosis Society
 (Peckham), and Lead for Marie Curie PhD Training programme (Newton-Bishop).

 4.3.   Public engagement and contributions to wider society

 Patient and Public Involvement and Engagement (PPIE) is critical to our research activities. Patients
 are actively involved in our research in multiple ways, from early development of research ideas to
 dissemination activities. Patients and the public help to focus research aims addressing issues that
 matter to them, to ensure that studies are respectful of research participants needs, and to develop
 relevant, accessible recruitment approaches and materials. Patients and the public also help co-design
 new healthcare interventions, treatments and studies and co-produced the UoL-LTHT research
 strategy. Each research theme has developed PPIE Groups that are overseen by a joint PPIE
 NIHR@Leeds Strategy (Section 3.2.1), developed by the NIHR BRC and CRF (supported by 2.4FTE
 dedicated staff). This interdisciplinary approach promotes sharing of resources and best practice,
 including evidence of PPIE impact. Central to the strategy is “research for everyone”: in 2019 we
 appointed an Outreach and Impact Manger to ensure under-represented and hard-to-reach
 communities are included in our PPIE activities. Our PPIE Group was pivotal in developing “Covid and
 Us” videos to promote greater uptake of Covid Treatment and Vaccine research in the Black and South
 Asian community.

 The University has ten members of staff who support and facilitate PPIE work, with over 770 patients,
 carers and service users involved in research every year. These staff provide advice and guidance
 enabling our academics to consider PPIE in their work. The PPIE team organise and facilitate PPI
 meetings, advertise for and invite members of the public to specific PPI activities, and collect information
 to monitor and assess the impact of PPIE activities.

 Promoting our research to wider community is undertaken through several mechanisms. Informal Café
 Scientifique meetings allow us to showcase our studies to the public; “Ask the Researcher” events open
 to the pubic are hosted through the BRC every 6-8 weeks; UoA1 academics participate in the UoL
 annual ‘Be Curious’ event to engage the local community in research; and widening participation
 initiatives to increase diversity within the SoM UG programmes. Within UoA1, 63% of our researchers
 have organised or participated in public engagement events whilst 50% of our academics have been
 interviewed about their research for the print or broadcast media. Communications are co-ordinated
 through Faculty and University based infrastructure.

 Policy Leeds is the connecting hub for research-policy engagement at the University of Leeds. It
 strengthens the influence and impact of University of Leeds research on policy design, delivery and
 impact at the local, national and internationals levels. Policy Leeds works with the SoM to connect
 research and policy communities, communicate policy-relevant research (via policy briefing and blog
 series), coordinate policy engagement with similar work across the University, and support researchers
 so they become confident and competent policy engagers.

 4.4.   Contribution to the scientific community by Leeds NHS staff

 Our NHS clinicians play a critical role in the national or international clinical research community. Fifteen
 NHS consultants hold Honorary Professor status within the SoM (+ 18 Emeritus Professors) and 61 are
 Honorary Clinical Associate Professor. Examples of major scientific contributions by our NHS clinicians
 include: Crellin (awarded CBE in 2019 for services to radiotherapy including NHS England Clinical Lead
 for the National Proton Beam Therapy programme); Kay (awarded OBE in 2019 for services to complex
 reconstructive hand surgery); Blackman (Secretary to British Cardiovascular Intervention Society; First-
 in-human studies in cardiac valve implants); Toogood (President of Association of Upper

                                                                                                 Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Gastrointestinal Surgeons of Great Britain and Ireland); J Scott (President of the Vascular Society of
 Great Britain and Ireland); Marzo-Ortega (Chair of the British Society for Spondyloarthritis, Past
 President of the International Spondyloarthritis Congress).




                                                                                           Page 35
