Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Institution: University of Winchester


Unit of Assessment: 33 Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies


Section 1: Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Unit Context
The Unit covers the Department of Performing Arts and the School of Media and Film, both
situated in the Faculty of Arts. Unlike in REF2014, when the submission was entirely cognate with
the Department of Performing Arts, this submission reflects a renewed profile and an expansion of
research areas. This post-2014 transformation is a result of a combination of factors including
changes in staff and strategic changes to the portfolio. Specifically, new programme developments
(musical theatre, music production and film production) have shaped our new identity as a Unit
[see Section 2]. As a result, research areas have been reinvigorated with a focus on
interdisciplinary practices and an increased use of practice as research (PAR). The Unit is
therefore a newly established and revitalised community consisting of 11.6 FTE staff members (13
headcount).

The submission contains outputs from, or reference to, 5 members of staff who have now retired or
left the institution (Bonenfant, Boyce-Tillman, Daykin, Prentki, Zaroulia – though Bonenfant
remains a Visiting Professor in the Unit). Five current staff members were submitted in 2014
(Purkis, Sharp, Simkin, Taiwo and Taylor). This group is accompanied by 5 early career
researchers (ECRs; Colin, King, Lockitt, Rush and Tlalim), as well as 3 members of staff being
submitted for the first time (Cuming, Seago and Murray). Although not REF-eligible, Visiting
Research Fellow (Garber) and Visiting Knowledge Exchange Fellow (Lee) are active participants
in the Unit’s activities.

Because the Unit is small, all researchers sit within the Centre for Performance Practice and
Research (CPPR) which has been established to foster interdisciplinary research and to boost
impact. Within CPPR research has been consolidated around two thematic strands that are
outlined below:

    • Interdisciplinary Approaches to Sound, Voice and Embodiment
This thematic area is focused on music and wellbeing, sound art and musical theatre. Daykin
analyses the efficacy of applied voice/music, identifying the social welfare benefits for dementia
sufferers, military wives, or in youth justice settings, while Boyce-Tillman explores music’s role in
spirituality and wellbeing.

Bonenfant, Murray and Tlalim use PAR methods in response to issues identified by participants
(their impacts are discussed in Section 4). Bonenfant explores non-normative voicing as art, and
as therapy. Murray has given voice to the families of Nuclear Test Veterans, while Tlalim explores
the politics of sound as well as creating installations that engage with a particular community.

The way sound, voice and music interact with performance in musical theatre is the focus for
Lockitt, Rush, Simkin, Taylor and Garber. Their research covers a spectrum from theatre music
and sound design to pop music composers and performers, from Joan Littlewood to Hamilton, and
from contemporary British writers/composers to the American Songbook. This body of research
provides the lynchpin linking the two strands of work – it focuses on sound, voice and music in
performance, but incorporates research into History and the Politics of Identity.

    • Reinventing Histories and the Politics of Identity
One sub-group within this thematic strand focuses on analysing and drawing attention to forgotten,
hidden or specific identities and histories. Purkis raises awareness of the early twentieth-century
                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


performances of female performers, and of female reviewers of the period. Simkin has developed
his work on performances of violence by analysing cultural representations of violent femininity. In
intercultural contexts King’s work promotes awareness of South Asian documentary filmmakers,
while Zaroulia examines performances of in-crisis European identities.

Another sub-group uses PAR methods to explore identity, by focusing on their own subjectivities to
articulate a contemporary British experience. Seago explores the concept of place-time that
emerges from the artists’ embodied experience of, immersion in, and interaction with specific sites.
Nora and I (Sharp) is a feminist autobiographical exploration, while Yoruba Sonnets (Taiwo)
explores the self-representation of British Nigerians.

Given the nature of the institution, background of academics as practitioners and performers, and
the importance of PAR, the final sub-group focuses on the practices of teaching and performing.
The development of clown training in the practice of Johnny Hutch (Cuming) is accompanied by
pedagogical research in dance (Colin). In a separate project Colin explores the historical and
political interconnections of dance, labour and collaboration.

1.2 Present Research and Impact Strategy
Since REF2014, the Unit’s main objectives have been to support the development of a research
culture and research outputs which reflect the interests of researchers within the thematic strands
outlined above. The Unit’s Research Strategy is reviewed and adjusted annually, though our
overarching strategic priorities have remained the same since 2014:

   1.   To increase the number of high-quality research outputs
   2.   To maximise the impact of high-quality research
   3.   To mentor, develop and integrate ECRs
   4.   To increase the potential for interdisciplinarity
   5.   To improve the external visibility of research and impact
   6.   To support and expand PGR provision [addressed in Section 2]

We have delivered on our strategy as follows:

    1. Increase research quality
Financial support and mentoring have been targeted at increasing the number of high-quality
outputs by increasing research time and arranging mentoring. Delivery of the strategy is indicated
by the production of 6 monographs, 22 book chapters and 21 journal articles (not all of which are
submitted). Our research leadership across the Unit can be demonstrated through 4 co-/edited
collections/journal special issues in international contemporary performance (Zaroulia),
collaborative dance practices (Colin), applied drama (Prentki) and film studies (King). PAR
remains a key methodology that Unit members have employed to produce outputs including audio
pieces; dance works; film animation; performance, and performative artworks for children: 8 of
which are submitted (Bonenfant x2, King, Murray, Seago, Sharp, Taiwo, Tlalim) and 2 of which
also provide Impact Case Studies (ICS) (Bonenfant, Murray).

    2. Maximise impact
Impactful research might be varied in both methodology and product and is achieved by
researchers at all career stages. Therefore, financial support and mentoring has been made
available to ensure all researchers understand and engage with impact. Discipline-specific network
events at the Theatre and Performance Research Association (TaPRA) and the Standing
Conference of University Drama Departments (SCUDD), alongside seminars led by former REF
panel members, provided detailed guidance in developing pathways to impact and gathering
evidence. Internal funds were made available to employ research assistants to gather and
document impact evidence, while the Unit and the Faculty arranged seminars for sharing good
practice. External consultants such as Bulletin Academic and Stephen Kemp Consultancy provided
further training. Meanwhile, all internal funding applications and annual monitoring reports require

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


impact statements to ensure engagement and understanding.

Our inclusive strategy for impact led to all researchers being surveyed for potential case studies.
Four were developed and funds were allocated to release time and assistance for impact
development and data gathering. Two were written by senior staff members (Bonenfant and
Taylor), and two by newer researchers (Murray and Tlalim). The fact that case studies were
solicited from newer researchers demonstrates a coherent approach to mentoring, and a clear
understanding of the pathways to impact. The fact that both submitted case studies use PAR in
applied contexts, is illustrative of the strategic importance of interdisciplinary collaborative research
and socially aware practice within the Unit.

    3. Mentor, develop and integrate ECRs
ECRs are highly valued in the Unit, and they have had a positive impact on the shape of CPPR
and the Unit. ECRs have been integrated throughout the research culture by involving them within
the committee structure, incorporating them within PGR supervisory teams, and allocating them to
leadership roles where appropriate (for example, Colin is convenor of CPPR). As a result of the
support for ECRs we have demonstrated significant resilience in terms of the sustainability of our
research culture. We are proud to include a 26% increase in ECRs (33% of staff submitted) from
REF2014 (Colin, King, Lockitt, Rush and Tlalim), as well as three members of staff supported in
developing research profiles and being submitted for the first time (Cuming, Seago and Murray).

    4. Increase the potential for interdisciplinarity
CPPR achieves its strategic aim of promoting interdisciplinarity and boosting impact by bringing
together staff members from across disciplines and engaging in conversations and dissemination
events [see examples under 5.]. The strategy to promote interdisciplinarity has led to an
overarching focus within the Centre on the potential of performance to transform people, places,
ideas, and the dynamics of our wider culture that will provide a future thematic focus.

    5. Increase external visibility
CPPR hosts a series of Conversations and Symposia to increase the visibility of our research. One
example is Colin’s recent Symposium (December 2019 at LADA, London) and public talk (January
2020, Winchester, with 4 visiting speakers) as part of Performing Solidarity. In February 2019 a
‘Conversation’ was held between Taiwo and Freddie Opoku-Addaie , in which the pair explored
issues that emerged from Taiwo’s interdisciplinary transcultural movement practice, Urban Butoh.
In both cases public ‘conversations’ appear as part of the ongoing development of ideas and are a
strategic feature of our research culture.

In addition, the Faculty organises and hosts a Research Seminar Series annually which, this year,
included Garber on the voices of musical theatre performers. As part of the Faculty’s public
engagement initiative (Tavern Talks, hosted in a local venue) - which builds community
involvement into the Unit’s research culture - Simkin led a discussion about trigger warnings
(November 2019), Lee discussed the agency of audiences in Outdoor Arts (June 2019), and
Lockitt explored the changing contexts for producing classic musicals (February 2020). Events
such as these characterise a developed research culture sustained by strategic interactions of
practice, research, dissemination and potential impact.

1.3 Future Plans
Although the research of the Unit has been grouped within two loose strands that have resulted
from the older structures of the Department and Faculty, it is now clear that as new programmes
have become embedded, and the Centre’s vision revised, a new thematic focus has emerged.
Through conversations, symposia, seminars and performances the Centre has generated
opportunities for discovering synergies between diverse practices such that Spaces and Places of
Performance will be the nexus for a body of research planned for the next REF cycle. Visiting KE
Fellow Lee (a former staff member) is working with CPPR convenor Colin to develop the Institute
of Place (http://theinstituteofplace.org/) at Winchester, to continue research into the relationship

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


between place and performance with colleagues and practitioners across a range of media and
disciplines.


Development of the Unit’s Strategy takes place within the framework of the University’s Strategic
Vision, oriented around social justice and sustainability. From 2021 the Unit’s Strategy, in line with
the Faculty and University Research and Knowledge Exchange (RKE) Strategies 2020-2030, will
continue to focus on the following goals:

   •   increase the quality of research outputs
   •   increase the awareness and quality of research impact
   •   mentor colleagues in generating external funding
   •   increase PGR student numbers and supervisors
   •   develop interdisciplinary collaborations
   •   continue to support ECRs

As a result of the long term strategy of the Unit research is well under way towards longer term
outputs that will feature in the next REF. Rush is developing a monograph (Oxford University
Press), and Simkin is beginning work on a co-authored monograph James Ferman at the BBFC
1975-1999 with a series of related symposia. Colin, King, Rush and Taylor are building networks
of collaborators for new and ongoing projects. Colin’s project Performing Solidarity is mentioned
under 5.above. King’s recent animated film La Orbita (2019-20) is an immersive video
environment that will be developed with residencies and collaborations in Spain and Portugal.

There are also collaborations that focus on pedagogies of dance (Colin, Seago), while Sharp,
Taiwo, Tlalim and Murray’s ongoing research involves collaborators such as the Victoria and
Albert Museum (V&A), British Nuclear Test Veteran’s Association (BNTVA), and funders such as
Arts Council England (ACE). All these, and other incipient projects, demonstrate coherence in the
building of collaborations and networks, and a research culture that promotes long-term strategic
planning. The Unit aims, in particular, to support newer researchers in setting up and becoming
part of international and interdisciplinary collaborative networks. It recognises that colleagues in
diverse subject areas need to interact with a much wider group of external peers to establish
informal peer review and mentoring opportunities. Such network building potentially leads to
collaborative research projects, publications and external funding applications. Building on the
mentoring provided by Bonenfant and Lee in particular [see section 3], the Unit aims to capitalise
on external networks and collaborations to plan funding bids and generate income. Where possible
support for PGR student and postdoctoral researchers will be factored into funding bids

1.4 Open Access and Research Integrity
The Unit is committed to Open Access (OA) in research and members have engaged proactively
with the University of Winchester’s research repository to ensure that their work is added for OA
purposes. Funding has also supported OA subventions in the Unit. .

The Unit is committed to supporting a culture of research integrity. Its members conduct research
within the appropriate ethical and professional frameworks and fully engage with the University’s
ethics policy and procedures and with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. In 2017
members of staff representing the subject areas in the Unit participated in an ethics training
session, run by the Association for Research Ethics, which focused on `training the trainers’. This
was then adapted as a staff development session for the Unit and Faculty, led by the Faculty Head
of RKE (who has oversight of ethics in the Faculty). Supervisors attend training sessions on ethics
and also ensure that their PGR students follow the University procedure for obtaining ethics
approval.

Section 2: People

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
The Unit contributed fully to the appointment processes for new posts (for example, Lockitt and
Rush in musical theatre) to ensure research priorities and connectivities were being taken into
account. Furthermore, it has been proactive in putting in place structures for staff development
through mentoring and with a specific focus on systems for supporting ECRs. Planning and
consultation around the Unit’s Strategy has therefore involved staff at all levels of professional
development and experience. We have tried to ensure that all staff can sit on committees which
will give them access to better understanding of University processes and strategic frameworks in
relation to research culture and research productivity.

We have focussed on supporting staff in the following ways:
  • by developing a system of internal review and planning for all researchers
  • through pro-actively encouraging research leave applications and other opportunities to
      maximise research time in order to complete substantial research projects
  • by publicising internal and external funding sources and offering advice to applicants
  • by using internal funds to support collaborative symposia and network events leading to
      measurable outputs

2.2 Mentoring
Feedback from REF2014 highlighted the need for more effective mentoring in the Unit, which we
took action to implement. This coincided with the University’s implementation of the Concordat to
Support the Career Development of Researchers, following which the Unit introduced a strategy for
fostering staff at all stages of their careers through processes of internal and external mentoring.
For example, Taylor supervised Seago’s PhD and then continued to mentor her as she moved
towards REF submission. Given the composition of the Unit, (with 1 Reader (Simkin) and 1
Professor (Taylor) being submitted), we adopted a flexible approach to mentoring and capitalised
on our knowledge of best practice. Taylor continues to mentor those colleagues engaged in
sound/music projects, but in 2016, mentoring was supplemented in the Unit strategy with the
opportunity for all staff members to apply for internal funds to seek external mentoring. Under this
scheme, external mentors can be provided according to need for researchers at all stages, and all
researchers have been encouraged to use mentoring in order to continue to develop, and to seek
new, and often interdisciplinary, collaborative or innovative modes of research. Mentors including
Professor Vida Midgelow (Colin) and Professor Robin Nelson (on PAR) have advised on editing,
publishing, developing funding applications and increasing the quality of research outputs.

2.3 Research Support and Staff Development
The Unit has benefited from the recruitment of dynamic and active new staff and ECRs, and a
vibrant and sustainable research culture has emerged, united around CPPR. As noted above,
ECRs are allocated internal mentors to support them in developing clear goals for research and
career advancement. Through this process staff members are supported in applying for internal
funds for teaching buyout so that they can increase the quality of outputs – directly feeding priority
1 in our Strategy. They are also resourced and supported to develop external networks,
host/attend symposia and attend conferences. An annual review process – the Individual Review
and Development Scheme - and annual research reporting via a Research Planning Form (for staff
on research role profiles and allocated 400 or 500 hours pro rata for research), assist staff with
short- and long-term planning and feed into discussions around workload more generally. All staff
members in the Unit have equal access to apply either for financial buyout (see section 3) from a
number of hours of teaching, or for a period of research leave on a project by project basis. These
applications are equitably assessed on the strength of the application, and on specific criteria that
require a publishing contract or external performance dates. During the reporting period two staff
members in the Unit (Sharp and Zaroulia) were successfully awarded research leave, Sharp for a
tour of Nora and I, and Zaroulia towards work for her monograph that is due for completion after
REF2021. Additionally, two members of the Unit were awarded University Research Fellowships:
Bonenfant in 2014-15 for his work on Vivacious Voices; Taylor in 2015-16 for research that led to
her monograph Theatre Music and Sound at the RSC. The University Fellowship is an award
                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


scheme to recognise excellence and operates separately from the internal funds. In the first part of
the REF cycle, it was awarded to 2 researchers annually (1 research leader, and 1 ECR) across
the institution. The award of £10,000 could be used to buy out from teaching, support mentoring,
research development and/or expenses. That two researchers from the same Unit won the
research leader award in consecutive years is testament to the strength of the research in the Unit.


The process of transition the Unit has undergone has created opportunities for newer researchers
to take leadership or committee roles within the Unit and CPPR, which has had a positive impact
on staff development and succession planning. As the elected convenor of CPPR Colin (an ECR),
is driving an ambitious programme of public-facing activities and collaborations [see examples in
Section 1], involving members from two departments (Department of Performing Arts and School
of Media and Film). Meanwhile, the Unit was, until the end of 2019, led by the only remaining
Professor (Taylor) with a mid-career researcher (Zaroulia) sharing an elected role. This job-share
was planned as a staff development opportunity and for succession planning. Following Zaroulia’s
move to another institution, ECR Colin, already a committee member as the convenor of CPPR,
has also taken a share in leading the Unit, mentored by Taylor. The Unit Working Group is
supported by Reader (Simkin). There are other opportunities to involve members of the Unit on
the Faculty RKE Committee, which is useful for staff members to understand the internal
processes of the institution, and the strategic planning for external processes such as REF. Such a
role is currently undertaken by Sharp. Thus, the interests of researchers at all stages of their
careers and across the two departments are represented, and the future vitality and sustainability
of the Unit has been enhanced. Together this team takes part in national debates around PAR,
REF and the sustainability of the arts at SCUDD, TaPRA and DanceHE, the Standing Conference
on Dance in Higher Education (SCODHE).

All staff members are encouraged to present research within and without the Unit - for example, in
semi-structured `conversations’, symposia, Faculty research seminars and informal public talks
[see section 1] - in an ongoing process of development. These are opportunities to share and
debate ideas, but also to raise awareness of potential collaborative research areas. These kinds of
fora for research presentation, discussion and debate also provide newer staff with an opportunity
to familiarise themselves with other researchers and their work, and to present their own areas of
enquiry as the basis for taking on a role within a PhD supervisory team. This process has worked
very effectively to maintain our supervisory identity as a team and to develop cross-departmental
supervision arrangements for a number of PGR students.

2.4 Research Students
As a relatively small institution most of the structures for supporting PGR students and ensuring
good practice among supervisors are centralised [see REF5a, 3.3]. The University offers a lively
and useful programme of training for both students and supervisors. The Postgraduate Supervision
Training Programme (PGSTP - regular sessions enhancing supervisory expertise) and the
Postgraduate Research Training Programme (PGRTP - consisting of 3 Level 7 modules) are thus
provided centrally rather than at the Departmental or Faculty levels. Supervisory teams are
involved in the PGRTP as assessors, to comment annually on progress, and to alert the Research
Degrees Quality Committee (RDQC) of any concerns about the progress of specific research
students. In order to develop understanding of the students’ research, especially those studying
at a distance, our newly invigorated research centre is addressing the issue of ‘distance
management’ by actively targeting PGR students for support in developing their work and offering
regular opportunities for PGR students to share work within the Faculty, across the University and
externally at conferences (PGR students have presented papers at, for example the Association
for Low Countries Studies conference in Dublin (2016) and the Song, Stage and Screen
conference in Los Angeles (2018)).

The importance of supporting and expanding PGR provision was identified as a Unit objective after
REF 2014 [noted in Section 1]. This objective was initially supported by the University with the

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


launch of scholarships and the development of a new PGT programme with opportunities for
distance learning and an enhanced focus on internationalisation. In the first instance, the Unit won
2 of the 10 ‘175th anniversary studentships’ offered across the entire institution. Both students
completed successfully. One is now working part-time at a Conservatoire in Amsterdam and part-
time in the cultural industries, the other is working in both theatre management and within the
university sector. The Unit has recorded 8.17 completions in this cycle, illustrating the Unit’s
reputation as a positive place to register for PGR engagement, and the individuality of a small
group offers the potential for new interdisciplinary interactions to enrich research.

2.5 Equality and Diversity
The Unit’s commitment to equality and diversity and the ways they can be advanced through the
performing arts has been enhanced by the residency of Blue Apple Theatre Company (BA), for five
years from 2018. BA, a dance company that works with performers with learning disabilities, works
closely alongside the dance team in the Unit, partly on the delivery of undergraduate performance
work. However, its presence encourages the entire Unit to address the opportunities and
challenges for learning disabled performers in dance and other performing arts. This again
demonstrates that within a smaller Unit that actively promotes interdisciplinarity, boundaries
between disciplines have become increasingly porous, to the benefit of all. BA’s importance here is
in the research into diverse practices that has begun within the Unit and among the team in BA
itself. Several outputs are in development that will feature in a future round of REF: for example, a
chapter on the work with BA is included in a co-edited book on Ethical Agility in Dance (Colin,
Seago).

The Unit promotes equality and diversity for PGR students and staff members in fair and
transparent interview processes, ongoing staff and PGR development programmes and the
availability of support for personal circumstances. Staff members are able to work remotely when
undertaking their research or administrative duties, and arrangements are in place for staff
members to request flexible working arrangements in certain personal situations such as having
caring responsibilities or for reasons of disability or ill health. The University has a Staff Wellbeing
Officer who can provide information and support to staff across the Institution, while the Faculty
offers a programme of activities to support and promote the wellbeing of all staff

In addition, there are arrangements for supported return to study following ill health, maternity and
paternity leave in accordance with practice across the sector. In four cases researchers in the Unit
have been absent from the institution for significant periods during the REF cycle either for
maternity/paternity/adoption leave or for periods of ill health. Those staff members were given
additional time and support to finalise outputs or develop PAR context statements. Funding
applications are treated equally from all staff members with appropriate levels of support being
provided as requested from staff members with protected characteristics. This is all embedded in
the Wellbeing Policy, the Sickness / Absence Procedures and the Dignity at Work Policy, while all
line managers are trained to use the Wellness at Work Action Plans provided by Solent Health.

All staff members are required to engage with the University training in Equality and Diversity, and
in addition, all members of the Unit Working Group have attended Equality and Diversity workshop
sessions in conscious and unconscious bias.. All members of staff have also been instructed in the
requirements of the GDPR. The Unit Working Group undertakes an annual revision of its Terms of
Reference: these sit alongside the centrally produced guidance notes to all Unit Leads and the
University’s Code of Practice for research. All Unit submissions from the University are overseen
by a Faculty Head of RKE (FHRKE); this ensures parity in terms of transparency of process among
the three Units in the Faculty. The FHRKE is a member of the University’s REF Management
Group, which provides documents, guidance notes and information to ensure transparency across
Faculties. The Unit Leads also sit on the University’s REF Working Group.

In conformity with this system, the REF submission has been developed using an arm’s length
assessment process within which individual outputs were sent to two (and occasionally more)

                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


external assessors who were asked to offer impartial advice on significance, originality and rigour.
The recommendation to the REF Management Group about the choice of ICS was made using a
similar process, after workshops with generic and subject specific external consultants.

Section 3
Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income
REF 2014 sub-panel feedback identified the importance of strategizing for increasing external
funding through mentoring and collaborations. The impressive track records of Bonenfant and
Lee (outlined below) provided a catalyst that generated a changed mindset around external
funding, while their mentoring has contributed to an increase in applications and funding success.
Income generation has thus largely been led by two members of staff who have secured funding
from a diverse range of sources, including funding which does not appear on HESA returns.
Alongside their support, the University investment has also grown through the appointment of a
Research Funding Manager and a Post Awards Officer.
HESA returns of £327,115 demonstrate a doubling of external research funding compared to that
returned in 2014 (£156,576).The sources of income include EU Government bodies; UK-based
Charities; Research Council; UK industry, and Local Authority.
Bonenfant’s Your Vivacious Voice is an educational research project that, by the end of 2015, had
secured research income of £146,670 from the Wellcome Trust. The Large Arts Award and follow-
on-funding supported the different elements of the project: a touring, interactive performance for
children, an installation, and an iPad app.
EU funding (£103,558) supported the Unit’s involvement in the European crossborder artistic
project ZEPA 2 (led by former member of staff Dean) as well as with Erasmus+ (Sweden)
(£31,117).
Another practice-based project (led by former staff member McKean) – the West Hill HMP
Winchester Project (applied theatre) – was awarded £11,600 of Local Authority funding.
The University Arts as Wellbeing research centre received £32,037 from the ESRC for Daykin’s
review of the role the creative arts play in wellbeing across the UK. Daykin was also
commissioned to write a report by the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Arts, Health and
Wellbeing. Small awards were received from charitable sources and industry to support the
administration of the centre (£333) and to fund La Folio Music’s Magna Songs project (£1800).


In addition, the Unit has generated a substantial amount of income from other, diverse sources (not
on HESA returns), including artistic commissions through not-for-profit organisations. External
funding has thus supported the collaborative projects of colleagues working with diverse
participants, beneficiaries and networks.
A series of artworks developed from Bonenfant’s research in voice, attracted funding from ACE,
whilst a subsequent project based in schools, Resonant Tails (2017-2019), attracted funding from
ACE, Youth Music, Postcode Community Trust, Southampton Cultural Trust, and the schools
involved in the project (Children’s Trust School, Tadworth, Linden Lodge School, Rosewood Free
School, Victoria School, Birmingham). Meanwhile the research led to the development of the
private charitable company Tract and Touch (established 2016, achieved charitable status in 2017)
whose goals are to promote, maintain, improve and advance education in the nature, power and
expression of the human voice. The charity is still linked to the Unit and the University through
Visiting Professor Bonenfant, and its chair is the FHRKE.
Other professional work, developed out of Lee’s research into methods for using Street Arts in
areas of social deprivation, is conducted through events organised by the not-for-profit artist-led
organisation Fuse Somerset Outdoor Arts (of which Lee is co-director). Outdoor community events
and artistic commissions have been funded, for example, by ACE, Taunton and Deane Borough
                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Council, Sedgemore District Council, Somerset Wildlife Trust, Somerset County Council, Taunton
Events Group, Garsington Opera, and Police Community Funds.

King’s VisionMix Network was developed with the support of funding from The British Council,
Goethe Institute, Shiv Nadar University, Jawaharlal Nehru University, the Kiran Nadar Museum,
and the Indian Council of Social Science Research, while ACE supported the work with two
International Development awards. Nora and I (Sharp) benefited from ACE funding, while the
National Lottery Heritage Fund provided funding for the residency at the V&A for the development
of Tonotopia (Tlalim) that is described in this section, below.


3,2 Research Infrastructure
Funding is managed, and strategy developed, by the Unit Working Group, whose role is to
implement Faculty and University RKE Strategy in ways that best suit the requirements of our
disciplines and the longer-term research goals of the Unit. This gives a measure of independence
that allows the Unit a great degree of autonomy.

From 2015 each researcher submitted to REF2014 was awarded a fund of £3000 pa for research
that could be used for research expenses, conference participation and buy-out of teaching. The
main benefit was that buy-out of teaching responsibilities contributed to the development of high-
quality research outputs and the time to write external funding applications [see REF5a 4.1]. The
devolution of funds has meant that the Unit has been able to adapt its strategy swiftly as required
by changing circumstances, and to provide frameworks for the establishment of networks,
interdisciplinary research and collaborations, as well as individual research projects. Examples of
networks internally-funded in 2019-20 include Taylor’s Musical Theatre in Process (£1000) at The
Other Palace in London, a collaboration with the University of Wolverhampton and a group of
professional composers and writers; Zaroulia’s Inside/Outside Europe: On Extremism (£1400),
and King’s video installation and network in Madrid (£500). Additional sums have also paid for
open access subventions, developing the research environment and supporting impact.

The Faculty RKE Committee (FRKE) considers all applications for internal research funding within
the Faculty in relation to the Unit strategies, with applications being forwarded to the University
Research Grants Committee for consideration. Its Chair (the FHRKE) reports to/from Senate RKE
Committee (SRKE), while the University Director of RKE (who chairs SRKE) reports to the First
Deputy Vice-Chancellor in a transparent structure. These lines of communication ensure a good
balance between self-determination and accountability. The Unit has had a very high success rate
within the institution (2018/19: 17 bids submitted, 12 successful and 2 partly successful). In 2019-
20 the Unit achieved a good success rate, with 14 applications submitted of which only 2 were
unsuccessful. Funding to develop the structures of CPPR and for its website development, which
will improve the visibility of the Unit into the next REF cycle, has also been continued.

3.3 Impact
Achieving impact from research is promoted through the internal funding schemes and the Unit
impact strategy. Funds have been awarded for research assistance to gather and evaluate impact
data, for consultancy and training in generating impact, and for mentoring in writing ICS. The Unit
first developed a strategic framework for maximising the impact of high-quality research by
improving the synergy between outputs, public engagement, and actions to enhance impact. For
example, with Tlalim’s Tonotopia project, requests for research and dissemination funds prompted
the Unit Leads to suggest the employment of a research assistant to document public engagement
and gather evidence of impact, and for external mentoring to write an ICS. That an ICS with the
reach and significance provided by exhibitions at the V&A Museum, involvement with charity Action
on Hearing Loss, and engagement with cochlear implant users was not submitted, demonstrates
the depth of impact being generated within the Unit and the strength and awareness of pathways
to, and strategies for generating, impact that are now built into reporting systems. Facilitated by
individual mentoring within the Unit by those staff members who had developed ICS for REF2014,
                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


a small group of potential case study writers has worked as a collaborative group with external
mentoring to develop case studies from which the submissions have been chosen.

Events to support the generation of impact, data-gathering and reporting are noted in section 1. In
addition, a new software package (Vertigo Ventures) for gathering impact data was introduced in
2017, and an impact consultant was employed in 2018 – 2020 by the University. Alongside this the
Unit has been awarded funding to invite consultants from the discipline on each aspect of the REF
submission to ensure members of the research community remain cognisant of current practice.
This demonstrates a sustained commitment by the University and the Unit to ensuring that
researchers understand what impact means, how to ensure research generates impact, and how
best to evidence change. It also demonstrates a strategic commitment by the University to
supporting the diversity of the research in all its Units.

3.4 Facilities
The University of Winchester’s Martial Rose library supports staff research activities with reading
rooms, 300,000 books and 8000 journal subscriptions, as well as digital resources for the
performing arts including Kanopy, Box of Broadcasts, Broadway HD, Digital Theatre and
Methuen’s Drama Online. The library offers electronic research tools such as Athens, Ebsco, and
JSTOR, and staff members have the advantage of being within easy reach of London collections
including the V&A, British Library and its sound archive, the National Theatre archives and the
British Film Institute (BFI). Researchers have also worked on specialist archives, especially Simkin
at the BFI and in the private archives of Chuck Prophet, Purkis in the archives related to Velona
Pilcher, and Taylor at the Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC) archive in Stratford-upon-Avon.

The University’s support for original and inclusive performing arts research is demonstrated
through the provision of state-of-the-art facilities. In 2010 a new performing arts building was
opened at the centre of the campus containing 6 accessible studios, 1 of which has a sprung floor
and 1 of which is equipped as a studio theatre. Adjacent to the existing 100 seat black box studio,
the development of a 5-room, 2-studio sound-recording and post-production facility demonstrates
significant investment in the infrastructure for practical research projects and includes an
accessible recording console. As a result of such facilities, and the undergraduate programmes
they facilitate, the Unit has expanded to incorporate newer researchers, extending the range of
interdisciplinary associations and cross-departmental collaborations in PGR student supervision.
This area has the potential for much greater development in the next cycle.

The multimedia loan counter and provision of software such as Ableton have facilitated the
documentation of practical research as well as stimulating the potential for newer research in film
production, sonic environments, sound art and soundscapes (Bonenfant, Murray, King, Taiwo,
Tlalim and Taylor).


Section 4
Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

A commitment to interdisciplinary collaboration and leadership of international networks has
defined research across each of the Unit’s thematic strands. Researchers have worked alongside
communities, stakeholders and academic/industry partners to advance knowledge in their specific
fields.

4.1 Collaboration and Contribution to Society
Research within the Unit has been characterised by a significant focus on applied theatre practices
and building community cohesion. Formerly led by Prentki, who retired in 2019, the ethos has
been maintained through commitment to collaborative practices. Applied work now relies on
research with diverse communities including Cochlear Implant Users (Tlalim); South Asian video
artists (King); the BNTVA (Murray); British Nigerian musicians and artists (Taiwo); hard to reach

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


audiences (Lee), and young people (Bonenfant). These projects promote inclusivity and
community cohesion, enhancing the Unit’s research culture, even as the emphasis shifted from
applied theatre work to a broader spectrum of community focused activities.

Significantly, one of the submitted ICSs from the Unit was developed by Murray, a long-time
colleague and collaborator of Prentki. Having worked for many years using Verbatim Theatre,
Murray established a network of nuclear test veterans, their descendants, and the nuclear
community internationally (Australia, the UK and online) to create an original way to use verbatim
techniques in The Fallout Project. Following interviews, he developed a series of short polyphonic
sonic/audio dramas that would have greater audience reach and accessibility than live theatre. The
work was disseminated to the original community and beyond to the international nuclear test
veterans’ community, including to BBC Radio 4 for an edition of Archive on 4 titled ‘After the
Fallout’ that Murray wrote and presented (14 March 2020). The project, supported with funding
and mentoring within the Unit, had impact on the community itself, on their key stakeholder
organisations, on their policies and marketing strategies, and is submitted as an Output and an
ICS.

Another result of collaborative research, this time during an artistic residency at the V&A, was
Tlalim’s Tonotopia. Tlalim investigated how to compose and curate sound art for people with
Cochlear Implants (CI). The exhibition, attended by 500,000 school children, had a direct
impact on the participants as they reconsidered normative hearing and re-engaged with their
own creative practices. Meanwhile, the V&A has reconsidered the design of all its exhibitions. A
further iteration at Winchester Science Centre (WCS) offers opportunities to engage with
educators and young people in Hampshire (launched 12 October 2020).

Lee’s professional engagements have been shaped around collaborations with partner, Sally
Mann (Fuse Somerset Outdoor Arts), and with networks that include artists, councils, education
institutions and government bodies. Lee’s outdoor events and festivals promote inclusivity and
community engagement and attract in excess of 60,000 visitors a year. His recent project,
Celebrating Culture and Diversity: Outdoor Arts in Somerset was a two-year project running
from June 2019 to September 2020. This work has been the catalyst for the formation in 2019
of the Institute of Place within the Unit.

4.2 Collaborations with Artists and Academics
The Unit also supports academic and artistic networks such as King’s VisionMix Network, a UK-
India international collaboration launched in 2014. This was followed by the VisionMix Artists
Filmmakers and Curators’ Workshop and Symposium in Delhi in March 2015, that gave visibility in
India and the UK to South Asian filmmakers. King’s documentary film of the event was screened to
academic audiences at Goldsmiths University, SOAS, Courtauld Institute, Manchester Metropolitan
University, the Goethe Institute, Shiv Nadar Institute and Jawaharlal Nehru University. This was
followed by a Futures Masterclass series at Winchester University on 1 and 8 March 2018 that
included contributions from Mark Isaacs, Mikhail Karikis, Josh Hyams, Nainita Desai and Adele
Tulli, and a contribution from King to the Proyector network in Madrid on 20 September 2019.

Zaroulia’s ‘Inside/Outside Europe’ network (2013-2020) produced a series of events and
publications that demonstrate Zaroulia’s research leadership within European political theatre.
Prior to the UK election (2015) the network published an online lexicon on acts of voting in
neoliberal Europe to raise questions about identity and agency. This was followed by publication of
an edited collection (2015); Performances of Capitalism, Crises and Resistance. Edited by
Zaroulia and Philip Hager it brought together the contributions of the network, which continued by
hosting ‘Performing borders: conversation on art | crossings | europe’ at Central Saint Martins –
UAL, London in 2016, and a symposium ‘Crisis in Excess: Performing Europe Today’ at the
University of Winchester. Maintaining the link between theorising and practice, the network co-
curated two one-day theatre festivals - ‘Being European’ - in June and September 2016, in
collaboration with the Centre for Contemporary Theatre (Birkbeck) and the European Theatre

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Research Network (Kent) at Camden Peoples’ Theatre, London.

In the field of musical theatre practice, Taylor links professional writers, directors and dramaturgs
with researchers. In 2013 she established the British Musical Theatre Research Institute (BMTRI),
with 9 academics. The group has met almost annually, and the network has expanded to 15
academics and more than 20-25 industry participants at each event. Her contributions to industry
events such as Musical Theatre Network’s (MTN) bi-annual conferences (2015 and 2017), and
their HE round-table (annually since 2015) cement such connections. Building on these links,
alongside former PhD student Sarah Browne (University of Wolverhampton), she organised and
curated the ‘Musical Theatre: In Process’ Symposium held at The Other Palace in London (2019).
This new network comprises well over 50% professional practitioners (writers, composers, lyricists,
directors and musical directors), drawn from the UK and US, focusing on research into creative
processes in new writing for musical theatre.


As part of the Unit’s strategic move to support newer researchers in developing networks Colin
was supported in organising a series of three events in 2019-20 at Middlesex University, at
Winchester and at the Live Art Development Agency. The project, Performing Solidarity, was
modelled on an earlier collaboration between Sachsenmaier and Colin that resulted in the edited
collection Collaboration in Performance Practices: Premises, Workings and Failures (2016).
Similarly, since 2016 Purkis has been a member of Intercontinental Crosscurrents: Women’s
Networks across Europe and the Americas (hosted by the University of Halle, Germany) and the
International Gate Theatre Research Network (Dublin), both of which have led to publications and,
in the latter case, an installation.

For similar reasons artist residencies are supported by the Unit and institution, including those by
Tlalim and Bonenfant. King was invited to take part in the R.A R.O. residency programme in
Madrid (the company awards and allocates residencies) and was based at Párpado Studios,
Madrid in 2019. Her work there produced the video installation La órbita (14 mins HD Video +
drawings) that was exhibited at Galería Aspa Contemporary, Madrid, and Fabrica Braco de Prata,
Lisbon in 2019.

4.3 Engaging with the Public
Disseminating research to public audiences is a strategic part of the work of the Unit. Murray’s
contribution to Archive on 4 is mentioned above in this section, while Taylor also featured in an
edition of the same programme focused on ‘The Art of the Lyricist’ broadcast on 26 March 2016.
Taylor contributed to discussions and reviews on Radio 4’s Front Row on 5 occasions in 2018 and
2019, as well as to Radio Ulster’s Arts programme in October 2016. Simkin was on a panel at The
Demons of the Mind conference at the British Science Museum on 4 Sept 2018, while Taylor was
a panellist at the British Film Institute (BFI) on 26 November 2019 (Musicals: The Greatest Show
on Screen). Taylor spoke about ‘Histories of the American Musical’ on 30 November 2018
(National Theatre), and on ‘Follies: Sondheim and the concepts of time and memory’ on 28
November 2017 (National Theatre Education Day). She has written a programme article ‘Playing
with meaning in the Opera House’ for Carmen at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden (Feb-
March 2018), and chaired a panel discussion of Man of La Mancha at the English National Opera
(4 May 2019). Meanwhile, Simkin disseminated his research in the online article ‘Amanda Knox
guilty again in case that has long cast her as femme fatale’, in The Conversation in 2014, and
subsequently in The Epoch Times.

4.4 Contribution to the Sustainability of the Discipline
Staff take up opportunities to contribute towards the development of the discipline via symposia
and national conferences, particularly SCUDD, SCODHE and TaPRA. Zaroulia was on the
executive committee of TaPRA from 2014-18 as Secretary, where she made a substantial
contribution to the development of the discipline, contributed to the consultations on REF, on Open
Access and the AHRC, and finished her tenure by contributing to the (joint SCUDD/TaPRA)

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


nomination process for REF panel members in December 2017.

Unit members act in varying capacities as members of editorial boards, referees for journal
submissions and as reviewers for funding organisations. Purkis has been on the Advisory Board
for The English Review since 2015 and was nominated to represent the History and Historiography
working group in judging the TaPRA research prize in 2018. She has been a member of the UK
Research and Innovation Future Leaders Fellowships (UKRI FLF) Peer Review College (PRC)
since 2018 and has reviewed grant applications for the Austrian Science Foundation since 2019.
Zaroulia is Associate Editor of Studies in Theatre and Performance (2018 – 2024). Taylor has
been an editorial board member of Studies in Musical Theatre since its inception in 2007 and, from
2021, will move to its Advisory Board, as well as having served on the Advisory Board of the
Journal of Interdisciplinary Voice Studies since its inception in 2016. She is also series editor of
two book series: Palgrave Studies in British Musical Theatre (three books published and two in
preparation), and Oxford Critical Perspectives in Musical Theatre (three books in preparation).
Purkis has been a peer reviewer for Australasian Journal of Victorian Studies and Nineteenth-
Century Music Review (2016-19). Rush has undertaken peer review for Studies in Musical Theatre
and Southern Cultures.

Keynote invitations have been received by Bonenfant, Taylor and Taiwo. Bonenfant has given
keynote addresses at the University of Bedfordshire (2018), and at the Imaginate Children’s
Theatre Festival and Showcase (2017). Taylor gave keynote addresses to the Song, Stage and
Screen conference at City University New York (2016), in actu – theatrale Praxis als Methode und
Objekt der Forschung symposium at Ludwig Maximilen’s Universitat, Munich (2018) and to the
Society for Dance Research/DANSOX at St Hilda’s College, Oxford University (2015). Taiwo gave
the address ‘Performance, Community and Mixed Heritages’ at Amateur Theatre Practices and
Culture Heritages at the Berthelot Thêatre Municipality of Montreil Paris in June 2019.

For a small Unit in a small institution the number and diversity of the contributions to society, to
communities of practice and to the research community is testament to the strategic planning
within the Unit, founded on robust institutional support mechanisms.




                                                                                               Page 13
