Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Bristol

 Unit of Assessment: 33: Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context
Our UoA has a long history of excellence across critical, historical, and practice-based research.
The Department of Drama opened in 1947, introduced film and television research in the 1960s,
and restructured in 2014 as two departments: Theatre; and Film and Television (FTV), closely
linked to our internationally renowned Theatre Collection (Section 3). Together with Music, also in
the School of Arts (SART), the three departments form a single UoA.

Since 2014, we have developed our research base through staff recruitment, by nurturing the
research potential of all our staff, and by significant grant capture. We have spent £1.2m awarded
pre-2014, and, including both Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) and non-HESA funding,
we have won a further £11m of funding during the REF2021 period (£4.3m was won during the
REF2014 period). The resulting activities and outputs have bolstered our international recognition
as a research hub. Our researchers are disciplinary leaders, editing leading journals and landmark
book series, playing key roles in national and international subject associations, research networks
and study groups, and organising and hosting major conferences and festivals. Our burgeoning
research strength is reflected in the quality of our three external senior appointments (Hibberd,
Luckhurst, McGirr), and in the internal promotion since 2014 of eight colleagues to readerships
(Hindson, Maingard, Piccini) and professorships (Ellison, Fairclough, Farwell, Hornby, McGirr).

The diverse range of our scholars is a core part of our distinctiveness. Music is recognised for
composition, scholarship on nineteenth- to twenty-first-century music and politics (especially in
Russia, Germany, Britain, France, and north America), and a cluster of work on early medieval
Iberia. FTV’s research focuses on medium, genre and materiality, with concentrations on
aesthetics and industries, animation, colour, film and television genre, migration and mobility,
audiences, transcultural film, heritage and the moving image, histories of material production, and
media archaeologies. Theatre has strengths in history, gender, and performance studies, in writing
for performance, and in contemporary, mediated, and site-specific practices.

Across the three departments, our research relates broadly to three key research strengths:
practice-as-research; analysing creative processes and material production; and histories of
performance arts, with a particular emphasis on politics and marginal histories.

Each of these key research strengths includes colleagues across all three departments and at
different career stages. In each of the strengths, we have achieved significant grant capture,
produced prize-winning and world-class research outputs, and achieved impact, with individual
colleagues often contributing to more than one research strength. The three strengths are
intersected by broader institutional themes including health, gender, and mobility.

    1. Practice-as-research
We have exceptional strength in practice-as-research. We have prioritised this area strategically in
new appointments (Hay, Massoumi), and have attracted two practitioner postdoctoral researchers
(Chadwick, Sedgman). Practice-as-research is a focus for much impact activity and is underpinned
by strong external relationships (Section 4).


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Music’s three composers (Ellison, Farwell, Pickard) are internationally acclaimed, receiving high-
profile commissions (e.g. Pickard, BBC Singers and BBC Proms), and Pickard was shortlisted for a
Gramophone Award (2018). Our composers innovate in transcultural music and in digital arts.
Through practice and ethnography, Ellison’s European Research Council (ERC)- and Arts and
Humanities Research Council (AHRC)-funded projects (£1.7m) model new ways of navigating
between different cultures’ musical traditions, transmission and learning styles. This research has
inspired composers, industry professionals and scholars internationally, resulting in multiple
musical commissions and collaborations, two operas (Ellison with librettist/director Jones*), and a
transcultural music book series. Group activity in innovative digital arts was central to The Online
Orchestra (AHRC; Co-Investigator (Co-I) Pickard), which grappled creatively with internet latency
in live music-making across multiple locations. Farwell’s human/electronic chamber music,
developing apparent machine agency comparable to that of the human performers, was pump-
primed by internal funding (Brigstow Institute).

Theatre’s practitioners tour new productions with their theatre companies nationally (Jones* with
Bodies in Flight) and internationally (Clarke with Uninvited Guests), with residencies at
Watershed’s Pervasive Media Studios and Bristol Old Vic Ferment (Clarke), and Lakeside Arts
(Jones*). Clarke’s work reaches significant global audiences and has earned awards from
Museums+Heritage.

FTV has four practitioners (Massoumi, Piccini, Maingard, Hay). Massoumi is an expert in Iranian
and diasporic cinemas and documentary film practice, with his work widely disseminated through
public screenings (e.g. Royal Anthropological Institute, European Film Festival, BBC Four) and
through his involvement in the AHRC-funded Filmmaking Research Network. Piccini develops and
presents co-produced practice-as-research with diverse communities, impacting on the field of art-
as-method in the social sciences. Her Imagining Regulation Differently (2020) reflects on work
undertaken as Principal Investigator (PI) of the AHRC-funded festival strand (£50k) of Productive
Margins: Regulating for Engagement (Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC), £2.4m).
Bristol’s Centre for Health, Humanities and Science hosts innovative practice-as-research projects
by Maingard and Hay. With Bristol Archives and researchers from India and the UK, Maingard
investigated illness as represented in colonial-era materials held at the British Empire &
Commonwealth Museum (Bristol), the British Film Institute (BFI), and the Wellcome Trust Moving
Image Collection, resulting in her film Weights and Measures (2019). Hay produced a
collaboratively-created and -produced short fiction film in partnership with grief counsellors, funeral
celebrants, artists, and academics, seeking to capture the lived experience of grief in fiction cinema
(Brigstow Institute). Over 12k people attended this research group’s 2020 virtual Good Grief
Festival, with multiple external partners including Winston’s Wish and the Sue Ryder Trust.

    2. Analysing creative processes and material production in performance arts
Our analysis of creative processes and material production crosses audio and visual, live and
recorded media, bringing together colleagues working on diverse topics and periods, with both
historical and practice-based approaches traversing opera, theatre, liturgy, film technology,
animation, and popular music.

FTV’s criticism and aesthetics specialists produced four monographs on specific forms and
genres: Clayton, sketch comedy; Falconer, the later Hollywood Western; Moen, early ideas of
animation (European Research Council (ERC)-funded, £500k); and Piper, the TV Detective (British
Association of Film, Television and Screen Studies, ‘Best Book 2016’). Piper has made formative
interventions in the developing subdiscipline of Television Aesthetics, engaging critically with the
cultural impact and value of popular genres including crime drama, light entertainment, and reality

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
television. Complementing Clayton’s analysis of comic theory and function on screen, Heldt
(Music) has interrogated musical forms of screen comedy, including the complex interaction of
horror and comedy tropes in horror comedies.

Music has hosted several collaborative projects in this research area. In Regional Rap (AHRC,
£90k), Williams undertook intertextual analysis of recorded audio tracks and music videos, and
hosted the second annual European Hip-hop Studies Network Conference. Hornby’s externally-
funded research (Section 3) traverses music, liturgy, theology, manuscript culture, visual art, and
liturgical space. Her research team’s innovative machine-readable transcription and computer-
assisted analysis of unpitched notation places the musical language of Old Hispanic chant – clearly
defined for the first time – in its cultural context.

In Theatre, Luckhurst has drawn on her experience directing Caryl Churchill’s plays to create a
new analytical methodology, collecting data about process and intention directly from performers.
Within our Health research strand, Luckhurst explores how live theatre performance challenges
stigma, presents alternative perspectives, and advocates for people with disabilities and/or those
perceived as marginal. Facilitated by the Theatre Collection, Jones*, Clarke et al., Artists in the
Archive emerged from Performing Documents (AHRC, £75k), which documents new work
developed from close engagement with the archival traces of past performances and practices.

    3. Histories of performance arts, with a particular emphasis on politics and marginal
         histories
Our deep interdisciplinary expertise in the study of artistic creation and reception in its historical
moment (including performer and audience studies) was strengthened by our 2017 appointments
of Hibberd (Music) and McGirr (Theatre). Hibberd works on France’s evolving relationship with
revolution, as manifested in operas created 1789–1830, with particular focus on audiences’
sensory and emotional experiences. McGirr works across eighteenth-century culture to show how
aesthetic judgments and canonicity are grounded in ideological and cultural anxiety. Hindson
researches the history of live performance and performers’ engagement with charity and off-stage
work, illuminating the social impact of theatre beyond the playhouse. Guthrie’s work on the
promotion of middlebrow music to mass audiences in mid-twentieth-century Britain has led to
international collaboration including a co-edited Oxford Handbook; in The Reasonable Audience,
Sedgman analyses contemporary theatre audiences and cultural expectations of normative
behaviour. Rycroft explores early-modern theatrical performance practice and its connections with
coeval societal values, with practice-as-research as one analytical tool.

We have a concentration of award-winning research on Twentieth-century culture and politics. In
Music, Fairclough focused on propaganda and cultural policy under Stalin in Classics for the
Masses (British Academy Fellowship, £70k; 2017 Choice Award, and British Association for
Slavonic & East European Studies Women’s Forum Book Prize). Scheding’s Musical Journeys
(2020 RMA monograph prize) investigates identity construction and musical aesthetics in the light
of migratory experiences. In Theatre, Krebs and Musca (Lisbon) founded the Migrant Institute to
bring together first-generation migrant theatre-makers with Migration Mobilities Bristol (see
REF5a), Bristol’s Centre for Environmental Humanities, and UK media studies scholars. This
experimental research and performance project explores migratory identities, memory, and
(non)belonging in geographical and cultural spaces, and seeks to shape policy. It has already
borne fruit in Krebs’s field-defining Routledge Companion to Adaptation (2019 Choice Award).

Several colleagues engage in the cultural, industrial, social, and political history of Film and TV,
often from critical and analytical perspectives. For example, Street’s externally-funded work on

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
colour in film (Section 3) resulted in Chromatic Modernity (Katherine Singer Kovacs Book Award
(SCMS)). Within this research strength, Music was also awarded a Leverhulme fellowship (Ellis*).

    4. Research objectives and structures
In REF2014 we submitted as two units (Music; FTV and Theatre), with separate objectives.
Music’s objectives were to increase our tangible contribution to the discipline nationally and
internationally, and to develop interdisciplinary research clusters. FTV and Theatre aimed to
facilitate practice-as-research and knowledge exchange (KE), and advance interdisciplinary
collaboration. After 2014, we iteratively generated a combined research strategy to meet these
objectives, nurturing practice-as-research across all three departments. To achieve the objectives
of enhancing our research profile and maximising interdisciplinary research across all three
Research Strengths, we prioritised (a) interdisciplinary collaboration, (b) KE and research impact,
and (c) grant capture. These joint endeavours underpin our REF2021 submission.

    a) Collaborative opportunities
We have harnessed University structures and opportunities to maximise our strength in
collaborative, interdisciplinary research. We encourage colleagues to participate in University
Research Institutes (REF5a), long-term Faculty Research Centres, and responsive Faculty
Research Clusters that develop emerging research synergies (Section 3). Regional research
clusters are a further focus for collaborative work, including GW4 Alliance (Clayton) and Media and
Criminal Justice Studies Network (Clayton, Rycroft). We draw on internal funding to pump-prime
innovative collaborative practices in site-specific and intermedia performance (Section 3). These
institutionally supported collaborations are complemented by research groups that coalesce
around externally-funded projects.

    b) Knowledge exchange and research impact
Supported by internal funding and administrative support (Section 2), we have significantly
increased our research’s impact. Collaboration with local, national, and international partners in the
creative and cultural industries (Section 4) is vital to our researchers’ investigation of material
production and creative processes, innovating both in the research sector and in industry. Our
impact activities build on university and faculty initiatives as well as individual researchers’
professional networks. Clarke and Street’s Impact Case Studies (ICSs) illustrate the importance of
such networks, and our sustained interactions with cultural and heritage sector partners. Sustained
non-Higher Education Institution (HEI) partnerships are frequently shared by two or more
colleagues, maximising longitudinal impact potential (Section 4). Ellison’s ICS exemplifies our
prioritisation of KE that challenges normative cultural practices and histories, with iterative dialogue
often leading to impact (including Street, Piccini, Piper). Innovative digital preservation and
transmission of cultural heritage, key to all three case studies, pervades much of our impact work
(Section 4).

     c) Prioritising internal and external grant capture
We have more than doubled our REF2014 grant capture. We have hosted two AHRC standard
grants (Hornby, Street), one ERC Advanced Grant (Street), three Starting/Consolidator Grants
(Ellison, Hornby, Moen), multiple smaller external grants, and were awarded a further Starting
Grant (Trippett*). We appointed thirteen postdoctoral researchers within these projects, enhancing
our international reputation as a hub for key research topics. This contributed to our recruitment of
six independent postdoctoral researchers (we hosted none in REF2014). The British topics of
Forkert* (Leverhulme) and Guthrie (British Academy, then permanent academic staff) complement
our existing strengths in European and North American twentieth-century music. Sedgman (British
Academy, then permanent academic staff) contributes to our audience-studies cluster, and has

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
developed collaborative links with Bristol Old Vic. The Theatre Collection, plus our concentrated
expertise on nineteenth-century opera and theatre, brought Sabbatini (Newton) and Stowell-Kaplan
(Marie Curie) to Bristol. In her postdoctoral fellowship in Bristol+Bath Creative R+D, Chadwick
undertakes practice-as-research on expanded performance and health, benefitting from our
research leadership in this area.

     5. Research Governance
We are committed to an open research environment, complying with University of Bristol (UoB)
and external funder Open Access requirements. We make our research data publicly available
wherever possible, with bespoke solutions for particular kinds of data, offering a faculty-wide model
of innovative best practice. For Pickard, BBC broadcasts are placed in the public domain via
iPlayer for 28 days (Radio 3 broadcasts since 2014 include Channel Firing, Symphony No. 5,
Sixteen Sunrises, Rain, Steam and Speed, Mass in Troubled Times, The Art of Beginning).
External funding has facilitated research data sharing, including Moen’s sharing of ERC-project
data on the University’s data platform. Know your Bristol on the Move (AHRC, PI Bickers (History);
Co-I Piccini, Williams) co-produced historical data with community groups, freely available at
www.mapyourbristol.org.uk. Several Old Hispanic manuscripts have been transcribed within
Hornby’s projects, both texts (www.musicahispanica.eu) and melodies
(https://neumes.org.uk/view); she also publicly shares analytical grey data (‘Melodic dialects’,
2016).

Our UoA promotes the highest standards of ethical, scholarly, and professional integrity. Research
ethics are overseen by the Faculty Ethics Committee, on which Piccini and Sedgman recently
served. Know your Bristol (CoI Piccini, Williams), developed an iterative, values-led approach to
research ethics; in Productive Margins (deputy PI, Piccini) academics and project participants co-
developed ethics protocols for qualitative research and practice-as-research. These developments
have shaped internal ethical review of projects in Arts and Social Sciences since 2018. When the
Theatre Collection acquired artist Franko B’s archive, it raised significant ethical concerns. Building
on previous work with Jones* on managing challenging materials, the Theatre Collection
developed a best-practice indexing tool for ethically sensitive content (Wellcome Trust, £155k).
This tool was discussed at a public symposium with archivists, artists and researchers dealing with
similarly challenging materials (Arnolfini, 2020).

    6. Research objectives
In the next five to ten years, we aim to:
    i.      Consolidate our three existing Research Strengths, remaining responsive to new
            research questions and opportunities, and accelerating interdisciplinary potential in the
            digital arts.
    ii.     Increase interdisciplinary research collaboration, with new and existing international
            partners.
    iii.    Continue to implement a strategic staff hire plan to ensure significant investment in the
            digital, performing and screen arts, incorporating emerging research areas such as
            digital creative media, sound studies, immersive technologies, animation, and digital
            and mediated performance, and aiming to develop shared high-tech studio and
            workshop spaces, and innovative digital resources.
    iv.     Take full advantage of institutional research support structures (Section 2) and Faculty
            and University research centres and institutes, ensuring that colleagues can conduct
            research productively during and after the pandemic, with attention to the EDI agenda.
    v.      Maximise internal and external grant capture for individual and collaborative projects,
            building in particular on the unique characteristics and excellence of the Theatre

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           Collection. We will continue to support colleagues who have won repeat external
           funding, drawing on their expertise to enhance existing grant capture training, through
           workshops, writing retreats, mentorship, and internal peer review.
   vi.     Continue to encourage research impact across the UoA, sharing best practice and
           consolidating our strategic partnerships with industry collaborators across multiple
           sectors.

 2. People

We have increased research capacity significantly through staff recruitment. Our category-A
eligible staff in REF2021 comprise 27.1 FTE permanent academics (21.5 in REF2014) and one
independent fixed-term postdoctoral researcher (none in REF2014). Seven strategic appointments
of permanent academic staff were made possible by increased student recruitment coupled with
strategic curriculum development. We recruited three senior academics: McGirr (2017), Hibberd
(2017; Stanley Hugh Badock Chair), and Luckhurst (2019). Four further appointments have
expanded our practice-as-research expertise (Hay, Massoumi), and our research clusters in
audience studies (Sedgman) and twentieth-century music and politics (Guthrie).

Our gender balance remains good (52%F and 48%M in REF2021; 48%F and 52%M in REF2014),
and we have staff from the UK, Europe, North America, New Zealand, and South Africa. 43% of
our category A eligible staff are professors (50%M and 50%F), 36% are senior lecturers or
readers, and 21% are early career researchers (ECRs). During REF2021, eight senior academics
have taken on significant leadership roles beyond their departments: Clayton (SART International
Officer), Fairclough (Faculty Research Co-Director), Farwell (SART Head, SART Teaching
Director), Heldt (SART Teaching Director), Hindson (Faculty Graduate Education Director;
University Education Director), Krebs (SART Teaching Director), Luckhurst (SART Head), and
Piccini (SART Research Director). Mindful of longer-term succession planning, our four early-
career appointments have helped to re-balance our staff demographic, as has our investment in
and relationship building with talented ECRs through temporary research or teaching posts.

Our staff recruitment policy is to identify world-class scholars who complement our Research
Strengths, and then support them to fulfil their potential. All permanent appointment panels are
chaired by the Faculty Dean or a delegated colleague and attended by the Faculty Research
Director. All on recruitment panels undertake ‘Fair and Effective Recruitment’ training. New
academic and research staff are given a mentor to provide support and career-development
advice, alongside the SART induction programme and University Academic Staff Development
programme. A formal probation process clearly communicates role expectations in the first six
months (fixed-term staff) or year (permanent academic staff).

Since 2014, significant grant capture by permanent academic staff and by independent
postdoctoral scholars has seen us host nineteen postdoctoral researchers and twelve teaching
fellows, plus four affiliated postdoctoral researchers hosted at other universities within Street’s
projects. Fixed-term staff are helped to balance research time with teaching and administrative
opportunities. Teaching Fellows’ workloads include a research allowance, and they can access
departmental research funding. The department head or project PI provides career guidance
through Annual Staff Review, and mentoring is offered through the Bristol Clear scheme. Fixed-
term staff are encouraged to participate in career development training, including the Higher
Education Academy (HEA)-affiliated CREATE scheme, and in the Faculty’s ECR network. Our
fellows are encouraged to be ambitious: they complete peer-reviewed publications; secure
prestigious commissions; gain additional research funding; and speak at and organise international

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
conferences. For example, in a three-year post, Ihnat won £5,500 of internal funding to support a
collaborative performance and public lecture series (2016); co-organised and captured external
funding for two conferences; and completed a monograph, three chapters in edited collections and
two journal articles, as well as her research and publication within Hornby’s ERC project.

Our successful support of early-career fixed-term staff is evidenced by their high success rate in
obtaining further professional employment, including: permanent lectureships at Bath Spa
(McCormack, Demetriou), Bristol (Guthrie, Sedgman), Essex (Williams), Liverpool (Forkert),
Middlesex (Keegan-Bole) and Radboud (Ihnat); postdoctoral research fellowships at UoB Jackson,
Cakir), Cambridge (Rojo Carrillo) and Lisbon (De Luca); and teaching fellowship at Keele (Swain).

    1. Staff support and development
All permanent academic staff have an annual Staff Review with their Head of Subject or School,
covering career development, staff development needs, and research achievements and
objectives. This is complemented by an Annual Research Review, which focuses on longer-term
research planning, and discussion of funding opportunities. Full use is made of the university’s
Research Leadership and Management training. The central Research and Enterprise
Development (RED, see REF5a)) team offers targeted training on grant proposal writing. Career
progression to Senior Lecturer is based on performance assessment within established role
profiles, with accelerated progression to Senior Lecturer available in exceptional cases (five in our
UoA during REF2021). Readerships/Associate Professorships and Professorships are achieved by
promotion.

In the Faculty’s standardised Workload Model, credits are allocated for research, teaching and
administrative duties. Staff working on impact case studies are allocated 12.5% of workload for
impact activities. For senior lecturers and above, including research leave, research time averages
42% of workload; with a further 6% allocated to early career researchers, to help establish their
research profile. Permanent academic staff can apply for one teaching block (TB; half-year) in
seven as research leave, with additional leave entitlement for those with major leadership
responsibilities; accelerated or additional leave is granted when there is an urgent research need
(one in the UoA since 2014). Staff can apply for an additional TB of research leave through
University Research Fellowships. We held eight URFs during REF2021, and all eligible staff took
at least one TB of research leave. Colleagues are encouraged to apply for external funding to
increase research time, with workload credits allocated based on percentage buyout on Funding
Council grants, or, for Leverhulme grants, on the grant-funded teaching replacement. Our two
permanent Teaching Fellow appointments (Scott, 2017; Wozniak, 2018) ensure sufficient teaching
capacity and flexibility to accommodate leave for research-active staff.

We enjoy strong collaborative links with universities, non-HEI organisations and creative
professionals in the UK and internationally. Our outward focus has been facilitated by our location
in one of Europe’s most dynamic and rapidly growing cities for the creative industries, designated a
UNESCO City of Film (with Piccini on the bid-writing team and management committee). Our
Faculty Research Office (established 2018) nurtures a culture of impact, KE and partnerships
across the Arts Faculty, and the Faculty’s Partnerships Fellow (currently Clarke) helps colleagues
to create and sustain non-HEI partnerships. The Faculty’s series of impact workshops and
meetings (2015-18) encouraged all research-active staff to think laterally about maximising
research impact, and to identify examples of previous impact.

The University’s EDI policy supports recruitment and retention of staff and students from all walks
of life: diversity in gender, age, sexuality, and cultural, national and ethnic origin are represented

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and visible within our UoA’s research community. Piper, Rycroft and Williams sit on SART’s EDI
committee, and SART’s EDI champion (Piper) and postgraduate research (PGR) representative
work with the Faculty EDI Director and SART Education Director to embed good practice. Annual
Staff Review includes EDI training. The University Disability Service provides specialist support
and mentoring to PGRs with a disability and each School has a Disability Coordinator. The
University’s Disabled Staff Forum hosts discussions and supports staff who identify as Disabled
and/or d/Deaf; individual support by SART and Occupational Health is offered to make reasonable
adjustments to working arrangements where needed. Within the UoA, we followed University-wide
protocols to ensure consideration of EDI issues throughout the REF process, including quasi-
anonymous peer review of potential outputs, and selection from the ranked outputs being weighted
to ensure proportional representation (e.g. men and women; career stage).

Funding from the University’s Returning Carers’ Scheme helps colleagues to re-establish their
research after leave due to caring responsibilities, with the aim of offsetting impact on promotion
prospects. Under this scheme, during REF2021 two colleagues in our UoA completed monographs
and made grant applications. More broadly, remote-working, job-sharing, timetabling
rearrangement and fractional contracts support colleague retention and work-life balance. For one
colleague, a flexible working arrangement plus a year’s URF helped balance caring responsibilities
with an international research collaboration, resulting in an award-winning publication. Another was
offered ad hoc teaching relief while finishing a monograph. A third colleague’s fractional contract
enabled completion of a monograph and archival research around family responsibilities.
Research-active staff can apply to the Faculty Research and Conference fund for caring-related
expenses. Other University support services are detailed in REF5a.

Research visitors add to our research environment and help build collaborations. They range
from speakers at department research seminars to longstanding externally-funded partnerships.
International exchanges are a priority for the university which, since 2014, has funded visits to our
UoA by Irish (Illinois Champaign-Urbana), Marx (Cologne), Siemers (Alaska Anchorage Kenai),
Ritchie (McGill), Musca (Lisbon), Lesick (Alberta University of the Arts), and Daniel (Simon Fraser).
Irish, Siemers, and Daniel were all associated with Productive Margins, and hosted by Piccini. A
choreographer and Performance Studies scholar, Daniel staged a work-in-progress and made
connections with non-HEI partners, including the M-Shed Somali Festival, and Bedminster’s ACTA
community theatre group. Funded by NEH, Calvin Institute of Christian Worship, and Baylor
University, Ingalls visited Music twice while undertaking ethnographic research on Bristol gospel
choirs. She gave a department research seminar, facilitated a PGR discussion on music and
religion, and contributed to the department writing group.

    2. Postgraduate Research Students
At the census date, we have 48 PGR students. There were 72 PhD completions during REF2021,
including 33 practice-as-research PhDs. On average, 20% of our PGRs are overseas students,
23% are BAME, 13% are disabled, and the male/female ratio is 48%/52%. Since 2014, we have
hosted seven South, West & Wales Doctoral Training Partnership (SWWDTP) students, and
provided second supervisors for seven SWWDTP students hosted by consortium partners.
Seventeen PGRs won internal funding; 21 are/were externally-funded through other channels
(non-SWWDTP AHRC, ERC, charity, overseas governments etc). Our PhD graduates have
diverse employment destinations including Bournemouth Symphony Orchestra (Ho); BBC Radio 3
(Fay); Bodleian Library (Burnett); European Union Translator (Pollit); Tate Gallery (Wates) and
permanent academic posts at University of West London (Efthymiou), Massey (Taffel), Middlesex
(Lukic), Reading (O’Brien), University of the Arts, London (Silverthorne). During their studies,
approximately 30% of our non-practice PGRs publish in edited collections and journals, including

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Jazz Research Journal (Finch became reviews editor as a PGR), Screen, The Soundtrack, Theatre
Survey, Movie: A Journal of Film Criticism, Journal of Contemporary Archaeology, and Studies in
European Cinema. Several PhD dissertations completed since 2014 have been published as
monographs, including Rojo Carrillo, OUP; Mason, Routledge; Mazey, Palgrave; Lash, Edinburgh
UP; Godsall, Routledge. International prize-winning PhD composers include Ho (Toru Takemitsu
Prize finalist).

Our MA programmes, participation in SWWDTP, and reputation for research excellence stimulate
PGR Recruitment. Our practice-as-research PGRs are often established industry professionals,
seeking advanced training and career development through PhD study. These PGRs help to
cement our industry partnerships (e.g. Blackford arrived at UoB with an Emmy-nominated career in
media composition, collaborates actively with the Bournemouth Symphony Orchestra, and sits on
the boards of Musicfest Aberystwyth and the Bach Choir; Bednall, an OUP House Composer,
collaborates and records with multiple UK ecclesiastical choirs).

PGR progress is formally monitored annually, based on written work and plans, plus an interview
with two independent assessors at the end of year one. To ensure good support, our PGRs are co-
supervised, sometimes cross-department or cross-faculty (e.g. Piccini with Archaeology/
Anthropology, Education, Geography, History, Music, Politics; Hornby with Art History, English,
History, Theology). DTP-funded students are co-supervised across institutions, enhancing the
sense of academic community, and sometimes including non-HEI supervisors (e.g. Lewis is co-
supervised by Museum of Wales). DTP training opportunities for all PGRs focus on key research
skills (e.g. publishing and building collaborations with the creative industries), with additional
needs-based training for individual students. DTP students organise and benefit from cross-
disciplinary Research Clusters and an annual Research Festival. The Bristol Doctoral College
(BDC, REF5a)) organises resource and project management workshops, introductions to
publishing, impact development training, and writing retreats.

The University’s Researcher Development Programme offers transferable skills training, and
there is institutional teaching training for PGRs. PGRs can apply for up to £750 a year for fieldwork
and conference attendance costs. To acquire transferable skills, Music PGRs regularly undertake
paid research assistance including sub-editing, music-setting, proofreading (Elgar Complete
Edition), administration (Dictionary of Hymnology), data entry (Old Hispanic chant projects) and
bibliography and catalogue compilation (Havergal Brian Archive). In all three departments, PGRs
take part in artistic residencies and organise conferences and events (e.g. two PGRs co-organised
the Fifth Annual British Association of Film, Television and Screen Studies Conference, Bristol
2017). Nationally and internationally, Theatre PGRs create touring performance pieces, Music
PGR composers undertake commissions, and FTV PGRs appear in film festivals. We facilitate
PGR-led impact and engagement initiatives. In our health cluster, Jarrett’s Stroke Odysseys is a
post-stroke arts intervention designed to spark recovery through movement, music, and song-
writing, in collaboration with health professionals, social services, local arts/cultural agencies,
artists and stroke or brain injury patients, with the project’s efficacy attested in The Lancet.

Each department’s framework of PGR activities includes regular research seminars, where
scholars at all stages showcase emerging work in a supportive – but critical – environment. Music
finances weekly reading and listening groups established by and for PGRs in 2019, an active
composers’ society, a PG-run contemporary music concert series, and Music Futures (a regular
careers workshop, with visitors from music-related professions). PGR composers rehearse and
record their works with (for example) Bristol Ensemble, MusikFabrik and Bozzini Quartet. A weekly
writing group offered to final-year PGRs and all academic staff builds mutual mentorship. FTV has

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
supported postgraduate networking schemes and PGR-led work-in-progress events and reading
groups, including a film screening and reading group. Students have a leading role in
ScreenResearch@Bristol, which includes colleagues from three faculties. In Theatre, staff and
final-year PGRs participate in monthly sharing of in-progress writing; ECRs coordinate regional
termly symposia for PGRs, ECRs and precarious academics; and PGRs and staff show
performance work-in-development in the theatres and studio.

We encourage intellectual exchanges with postgraduates in other universities, including via the
GW4 research alliance and SWWDTP. Our students participate in the Worldwide Universities
Network Researcher Mobility Scheme (e.g. Keegan-Bole to Eastman, 2014) and in bilateral
exchanges (e.g. in 2017–19 Music hosted Beijing University students, leading to one Bristol PGR
registration).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

    1. Infrastructure supporting externally-funded research and impact
We have benefitted from various institutional investments to build and support flagship externally-
funded projects, working with UK and international partners. These projects have delivered
discipline-shaping research and research impact, and their success has unlocked additional
research funding. Here we offer three indicative case studies that highlight how our research
infrastructure supports individual researchers.

In Music, Hornby’s research group has been externally-funded since 2009 (£2.4m during the
census period, from ERC, Leverhulme, British Academy, and AHRC). She has received ongoing
support and mentorship from RED advisors, and pre- and post-award administrative support.
Internal seedcorn funding for two study days helped build Hornby’s external networks. Bristol’s
International Strategic Fund paid for visits by (1) Andrés (Universidad Austral de Chile), resulting in
a Leverhulme International Research Network on Iberian processions; and (2) Chkeidzhe and
Oniani (Tbilisi State conservatoire, Georgia), and Helsen (Western University), resulting in a
Leverhulme/BA Small Grant on medieval chant in East and West. A RED advisor planted the seed
for the digital exhibition in Hornby's AHRC follow-on grant. Hornby has mentored successful grant
applications by colleagues (Trippett*, Ellison, Williams) and by former postdoctoral researchers
(Ihnat, NWO Vidi grant; Rojo Carrillo, Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (ECF)).

Sedgman joined Theatre on a British Academy Research Fellowship (2016-2020), paused for
maternity leave (2017), and then was appointed lecturer. Institutional and mentoring support while
she was on maternity leave, including KIT and a phased return to work, helped her give
conference, media and industry presentations, and complete The Reasonable Audience (2018).
She was shortlisted for the AHRC New Generation Thinkers scheme (2020). She joined the
Faculty Research Ethics Committee (2019) and collaborates on public exhibitions and events with
partners including the Bristol Old Vic (2018) and the Theatre Collection (2020). She devised new
training on impact evaluation for the Faculty Impact team (2017). In 2018 she was appointed series
editor of Routledge’s Audience Research monograph series and her 2016 and 2018 monographs
are complemented by Q1 journal articles, keynotes and a growing portfolio of public-facing writing
and media appearances.

For Street (FTV), a key, new phase in her research began when the University facilitated her
attendance at an interdisciplinary conference on Colour in 2007. This early encouragement of
speculative research connected her with key international colour scholars, across disciplines, some
of whom subsequently became collaborators. This intellectual synergy inspired Street to apply for

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
three large externally-funded research projects (AHRC and Leverhulme Trust, 2007-2019),
resulting in prize-winning publications (2014 and 2020) and Street being awarded the Colour
Group GB’s Turner Medal (2019) for making ‘an outstanding lasting contribution in the field of
colour’. She co-edited a multi-disciplinary volume in Bloomsbury’s Cultural History of Colour series.
Most recently, Street’s successful €2.5m Advanced Grant bid was supported by the University’s
specialist ERC research support team. The project includes team members from the disciplines of
Film Studies, Archaeology and Computer Science.

These three case studies illustrate the excellence of the practical and financial research support
offered by the university. Dedicated administrators and advisors (in Finance, RED, and IT
Services) offer practical support pre- and post-award for externally-funded research. At faculty-
run grant-writing retreats and information days, professional services staff help applicants to
develop ideas, formulate pathways to impact, cost bids, and plan partnerships. Draft bids for
external funding over £10k are given formal internal peer review, raising their quality and providing
mentorship to applicants.

A steady flow of internal funding pump primes emerging research and impact initiatives. UoA33
staff have secured £68k in competitive awards from the Arts Faculty Conference and Research
Fund (up to £1,500 per researcher per year), for activities including fieldwork, conference
participation, and publication costs. This sometimes combines with external funding to support
research activities. For example, Rycroft received funding from the Faculty Research Fund and
Shakespeare’s Globe (£2k) for a Research-in-Action workshop at the Sam Wanamaker Playhouse
exploring the portrayal of promenading in mid-seventeenth-century plays. Smaller funds are
available from Departmental and SART research budgets. In 2020, such seed-funding brought
Williams’s collaborator Nitzsche (Dortmund) to UoB to co-write their successful proposal for
AHRC/DFG funding (Bristol component £350k, 2021-24). The University’s International Strategic
Fund has pump primed collaborations by Hornby (see above), Maingard (£3k for pilot projects
leading to Illness and Health, Section 1) and Piccini (£2.5k for Association of the Unknown Shore,
Section 4). Hibberd, Hornby, McGirr, Scheding, and Clarke have all hosted paid undergraduate
interns through the faculty’s Research Internships scheme, helping to develop pilot research and
engagement projects, nurturing cross Faculty relations (e.g. Music/Psychology), and developing
student skills and CVs.

University Institutes (REF5a) and Faculty Research Centres also provide internal funding and
support. We participate or have leading roles (+) in Bristol Vision Institute (Piccini+, Luckhurst,
Moen, Street), Jean Golding Institute (McGirr), Brigstow Institute (Clarke, Farwell+, Hay, Luckhurst,
Massoumi, Piccini) Migration Mobilities Bristol (Scheding, Krebs, Massoumi, Maingard); and long-
term Faculty Research Centres including Environmental Humanities (Krebs), Centre for Medieval
Studies (Hornby), Centre for Health, Humanities and Science (Maingard, Hay) and Centre for
Black Humanities (Williams). Short-term faculty clusters generate collaborative research synergies
in a responsive and dynamic manner. These include Digital Cultures and Methods (Piccini,
Williams), Ethnographic Animation (Moen), Medical Humanities (Hay+, Maingard), Transnational
Theatrical Exchange (Hibberd+, McGirr) and Theatre Histories (McGirr+), each of which received
£500 of internal funding for networking, seminars, and PGR training.

    2. Strategies for generating research income
Since 2014 we have won £8.9m of research-council funding and £2.1m of non-HESA funding. This
has been facilitated by institutional infrastructure, internal funding, and working practices that
support the generation of ambitious, timely research proposals. The institutional expectation now is
that – at any one time – most academic staff are involved in an externally-funded research project,

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
are applying for one or developing ideas for a bid. We have achieved a virtuous circle, with some
staff repeatedly winning funding and acting as models and mentors for colleagues, and others
achieving their first successful bids. Our UoA benefits from Bristol’s externally-funded research
consortia, including the AHRC SWWDTP (UoB led both funding bids and is the administrative
hub), the AHRC REACT hub and the Bristol+Bath Creative R+D consortium. In Theatre, significant
non-HESA funding supports practice-as-research (Clarke’s work has been supported by £480k in
Arts Council and similar funding; £6k of private benefaction has supported work-in-progress
workshops) as well as the activities of the Theatre Collection (see below). Music has attracted
benefactor funding (over £137k) for its practice-based infrastructure, supporting (inter alia)
recordings of Pickard’s compositions, a PhD studentship (Keegan-Bole), and performances of
PGR and staff compositions. Various aspects of the Theatre Collection’s work have been
supported by £1.5m of non-HESA funding (below and Section 4), including £118k from the Elyot
Endowment.

     3. Infrastructure supporting research impact
The Faculty Research Office (Section 2) offers focused support for impact and engagement
initiatives. At Faculty and School level, Research Impact and KE Officers champion and support
such activities. PolicyBristol representatives help to engage policymakers in the Faculty’s research.
We have benefited from REF Impact Funding (Hornby: Portuguese partnerships; Clarke: Historic
Royal Palaces documentary) and Arts Impact Accelerator Funding (Ellison, Bristol New Music
Festival; Street and Rickards: BFI, Studio Canal, the UK Colour Group). These funding streams
help our researchers to develop and consolidate impact-delivering relationships with non-HEI
partners.

    4. Facilities
Each department has a dedicated space on Clifton Campus. In 2016, new specialist spaces were
developed for FTV, including a 200-seat cinema, Production Studio, Animation and Edit Suites,
and workshop, followed by 2018 investment in a new 35-seat screening cinema and small
Production Studio (£3.5m in total). We have refurbished Music’s Victoria Rooms (£1m) and the
Theatre Collection’s study and storage areas (£358k). Theatre’s Vandyck Building and the
Wickham Theatre have had significant running repairs (£710k). The University is currently
investing in broader infrastructure improvements, particularly the New University Library. This will
house the University’s Special Collections, Art Collection, and Theatre Collection, to be accessible
to academics, students, and the public in bespoke reading rooms and gallery space, significantly
improving the Theatre Collection’s infrastructure and visibility.

The Theatre Collection is a uniquely valuable component of our research infrastructure and
environment, integrated with Theatre’s activities through academic service on its Management
Committee (Rycroft and McGirr during REF2021). Supported by core funding from UKRI Museum,
Galleries and Collections Fund (£70k p.a.), its reading room, exhibition space, and remote services
facilitate access to one of the world’s largest repositories of British theatre history and live art. It is
the focus of significant external funding, public engagement, and international scholarly research
and collaboration. Since 2014, the collection has featured in 116 scholarly publications, been
visited by over 200 academic researchers, and received over 4,000 enquires (18% from scholars).
Externally-funded research facilitated by the Theatre Collection includes Performing Documents
(Section 1). The Collection won two AHRC REACT grants (£79k, 2014-15), collaborating with
Shaw-Miller (Art History) and industry partners to prototype and develop novel display cases that
facilitate interactive engagement with artefacts. Recent acquisitions illustrate the Collection’s role in
shaping new research. In a series of projects (non-HESA funding: £325k), the Oliver Messel
Personal Archive was catalogued and access developed. This archive has already been explored

                                                                                                  Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
in multiple ways, including: (1) a Turing Institute summer school in which data scientists used text-
mining to improve understanding of and access to the collection; and (2) an Arts Council-funded
performance piece (£11.5k) bringing the Messel archive to new Bristol audiences that will tour in
collaboration with the National Trust. In other grants since 2014 (totalling over £220k), the
Collection has expanded its diverse materials and developed key archival methodologies, for
example around the archival management of 3D LIDAR scans (National Archive Innovate and
Collaborate, £5k). The Theatre Collection’s activities significantly raise our international profile and
role as a research hub for theatre and performance art.

Since REF2014 the Library has invested significantly in new digital resources, including historic
newspapers and magazines. Special Collections has acquired new archives including The
Wildfilm History Archive (2019). Supported by Wellcome Trust, in collaboration with Wildscreen
Films and BBC Natural History, this collection is already used for teaching and research; a
Brigstow-hosted virtual event (2020) introduced it to academics and local artists. Music now hosts
four archives, contributing to the research plans of colleagues and providing materials for student
projects: Soviet Music (Fairclough, including our long-term-loan acquisition of the Derek Hulme
collection of Shostakovich materials, whose cataloguing and digitisation was supported by a BA
small grant); Havergal Brian (Pickard); Silent Film Music (Heldt and Hibberd, in partnership with
Laraine Porter (De Montfort)) and silent-film pianist/composer Neil Brand); the Dicky Brown Jazz
Archive (Williams).

Equipment: Music has four flexible teaching/rehearsal spaces; nine studios whose cutting-edge
equipment and software support staff and student composition and performance; an extensive
collection of musical instruments and an auditorium and a recital room, where new compositions
are workshopped and performed. FTV has a large range of video production equipment, including
professional 4K cameras and sound kits; post-production facilities; and a comprehensive collection
of lighting equipment. There are two production studios; two cinemas; edit suites and sound
studios; and a workshop. Research is supported by non-research-active staff’s professional skills
in cinematography, sound, and editing. Theatre has two fully-equipped studio theatres, licensed for
public performances, three rehearsal spaces and two project spaces. Research is supported by
non-research-active staff’s professional skills in stage management, costume, set, sound and
lighting design. Performance work is supported by a sound studio, costume and props stores, a
design workshop and a suite of AV equipment to support site-specific work.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

     1. Research collaborations: arrangements, support, and effectiveness
In line with our REF2014 objectives, we maximised opportunities for collaborative and
interdisciplinary research in the current cycle (see Section 1). Our research collaborations are often
stimulated by internal research institutes, centres, and clusters; all colleagues have extensive
international research networks. As well as leading major international collaborative projects,
colleagues have provided CoIs for several collaborative projects, including Losing her Voice (BA-
funded; CoI Hibberd), North Sea Crossings (Heritage Lottery Fund; CoI Moen), and Know your
Bristol (AHRC-funded, CoI Piccini, Williams).

The university actively nurtures international, interdisciplinary collaboration, through administrative
support and seedcorn funding (Section 3), and by desk space, IT resources and library access for
visiting collaborators. As well collaborators visiting from University of Colorado Boulder and
Complutense, Madrid, among others, Hornby’s projects have employed postdoctoral researchers
in art history, computer science, palaeography, music, archaeology and history, and her two

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
current DTP-funded PGRs benefit from the networking and training opportunities offered by this
well-established interdisciplinary group, including workshops and work-in-progress consultations
with international experts from multiple disciplines, facilitated by university administrative and
financial support. The group’s success is evidenced by its productivity: its outputs since 2014
include two completed PhDs, 14 peer-reviewed journal articles, and one monograph.

    2. Partnerships leading to impact
Some partnerships have been brokered by individuals and developed into formal partnerships. In
2014 we established Bristol New Music, financially supported by the university. This biennial
international festival brings top performers and composers to Bristol, to work with university staff
and students, together with local organisations including St Georges, Watershed (both now have
formal partnership arrangements with the University), Colston Hall (renamed as Bristol Beacon),
and Spike Island. Watershed is a focus for impact-related activities more widely (e.g. Street,
Piccini, Clarke, Sedgman). Some academics undertake research through their role in a theatre or
film company, or a music ensemble, including Ellison, Hezarfen Ensemble; Jones*, Bodies in
Flight; and Clarke, Uninvited Guests, FUEL.

Some ongoing partnerships are informal, as is the case with the Bristol Archives and BFI, whose
archives have been drawn on for impact-rich work by Maingard (Section 1) and Piccini, whose
contribution to Know your Bristol explored contemporary community- and artist-led planning
processes using the BFI-held Knowle West TV archive. Further, as detailed in Street’s ICS, her
research led to the BFI deciding to restore and exhibit This is Colour at the London Film Festival
2020.

We have also developed collaborations with heritage organisations. This includes the visitor
experience McGirr created for Chawton House, Hampshire, in which guests explore the house and
gardens by following Fanny Price and friends through the plot of Mansfield Park.

Other fruitful partners involving research impact include Canal Plus (Street); Aardman (Moen);
VIVO Media Arts, Canada (Piccini); Soundworld (Pickard, Ellison, Farwell); BBC Symphony
Orchestra, BBC National Orchestra of Wales, BBC Singers, English National Opera, Martyn
Brabbins, Nash Ensemble (Pickard); Ensemble Variances (Ellison); Gestalt Institute, Pascal
Theatre Company, Funny Women (Luckhurst); Royal Shakespeare Company (Rycroft); National
Theatre, Globe Theatre (McGirr).

    3. Contributions to society, including research impact
Many of our research outputs are aimed directly at the general public, since they comprise films
(including Hay’s High Tide, a feature film with UK cinema release), live performance pieces (e.g.
Clarke, Section 1), and compositions. During the census period, Pickard’s compositions have been
performed in countries including Belgium, Hungary, Japan, Norway, Switzerland, and the US, as
well as across the UK. The major international label BIS records has issued three discs of his
music, and Toccata Classics has issued two discs of his chamber music.

Our historians disseminate research via public engagement activities such as BBC interviews and
pre-performance talks (including Fairclough, Guthrie, Hibberd, McGirr, Shaw-Miller). Sedgman has
a national media profile, including appearances on Front Row. Her research has resulted in
intensive industry engagement on shaping audience behaviour policies and social media practices.
She has led staff training sessions at London Barbican and Bristol Watershed and gave a keynote
at BroadwayCon Industry Day, New York followed by discussions with NYC's Public Theatre.
Hornby’s digital exhibition draws on her research for multimedia explanatory glosses of 1,000-year-

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
old manuscript fragments, reaching 25k visitors to Spanish and Portuguese institutions. Further,
over fifty composers have engaged with aspects of Hornby’s research as inspiration for creative
practice, leading to non-verbal cultural transmission of the research to performers and the public.

The Theatre Collection is a major focus for public engagement. In addition to regular public
exhibitions and talks featuring our researchers (including McGirr, Hindson, Sedgman), the
collection makes regular loans to major cultural institutions with large visitor numbers, including
Royal Opera House (2015, 97k visitors) and Nymans/The National Trust (2015-18, 78k visitors);
other loans have been made to the Royal West of England Academy, The Guildhall (London),
National Portrait Gallery and National Museums Wales. A recent award-winning collaboration with
Bristol Old Vic and Bristol Archives (National Lotteries Heritage Fund, total £2.5m, £367k to
Theatre Collection) saw the Theatre Collection catalogue, conserve, and curate the theatre’s vast
archival materials, underpinning artworks, audio-visual exhibitions, workshops, tours, and VR
experiences which have reached 880k visitors on-site and online. This collaboration helped
develop the theatre as a heritage attraction, and enabled delivery of a new business model with
heritage as a key strand.

    4. Engagement with diverse communities and publics
We have developed innovative KE and research impact with hard-to-reach communities. Piccini
has brought artists, archaeologists, anthropologists, filmmakers, historians, and law scholars
together in a series of community projects. For example, she trained 120 Cube Cinema volunteers
as ‘archaeologists’ and ‘heritage interpreters’ through the use of mixed creative methods. Her
Association of Unknown Shores partners with artist Kayle Brandon, St Stephen's Church, Bristol
Museum and civic dignitaries in Bristol and Iqaluit to address the legacies of Martin Frobisher's
attempted colonisation of Nunavut, northern Canada, and his kidnapping and transportation to
Bristol of three Inuit in 1577. In 2020, this project performed online to the Chale Wote Festival,
Accra, Ghana (audience: 500). Jones’s* Life class partnered with community centres, Age
Concern, and senior citizens to co-produce a theatre piece, including filmed excerpts of tea dances
and a male-voice choir. In a Brigstow-funded project, Subject to Scrutiny, Massoumi worked with
colleagues in Law, Sociology, Politics, and International Relations, and with Bristol Refugee Rights.
Moving beyond narrowly-conceived humanitarian depictions of refugees’ personal struggles, here
refugees co-produced a film that scrutinises the impact of COVID19 on the asylum system.
Williams collaborated with B-Line recordings, the Ropewalk pub, Mr. Wolfs (music venue), and
Cube Cinema to host a series of AHRC-funded events where DJs, graffiti artists, breakdancers,
MCs and scholars shared hip-hop practice and research in an informal setting.

    5. Sustainability of the discipline
We have contributed significantly to sustaining and shaping our disciplines, by editing key
international journals (Movie: A Journal of Film Criticism, Clayton; Cambridge Opera Journal,
Music & Letters, Hibberd; Twentieth-Century Music, Fairclough; Screenworks, Massoumi
(associate); Restoration Studies In English Literary Culture 1660-1700, McGirr (associate); RMA
Research Chronicle, Scheding; Screen, Street) and landmark book series and editions
(Routledge Russian and East European Music Studies, Fairclough; FilmMusik, Heldt; Routledge
Popular and Folk Music Studies, Williams; Complete Elgar Edition, Pickard; Routledge Theatre and
Performance Series in Audience Research, Sedgman). We support the career development of our
postdoctoral researchers, teaching fellows and PhD students, 13 of whom have gone on to
permanent academic positions (Section 2).

The Theatre Collection’s importance is recognised at the highest level. An Accredited Museum
since 2001, it is now an Accredited Archive (since 2017), the UK quality standard for archive

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
services and research accessibility. In 2019 Arts Council England named it a Designated
Collection; this major accolade is given to nationally significant collections that are essential
resources to the sustainability of the nation’s research environment.

    6. National and international priorities
We have responded to and shaped disciplinary and interdisciplinary priorities and initiatives in
multiple ways, including funding capture for large collaborative projects that employ postdoctoral
researchers whose subsequent research builds on foundations laid here. Such projects involve
colleagues from several disciplines and institutions. Through collaboration, some projects help
shape disciplinary priorities in Lower Middle Income (Georgia, Hornby; India, Maingard) and Upper
Middle Income (Turkey, Ellison) countries.

Our leadership of learned societies also shapes national research priorities. We are particularly
active in the Royal Musical Association, providing two Vice Presidents (Hibberd – chair of the
finance committee – and Fairclough – chair of the awards committee, in which capacity she set up
the Tippett Medal in Composition), the local organisers of the 2015 RMA/BFE Student Conference
(Williams) and 2018 RMA Annual Conference (Heldt), and two Chairs (Taylor and Finch) and one
member (Dewar) of the RMA Student Committee. The cross-organisational Equality, Diversity, and
Inclusion in Music Studies network grew out of an RMA Working Group. Finch was a founding
member, and is now the ECR representative. Our colleagues include Fellows of the British
Academy (Ellis*), American Philosophical Society (Ellis*), Royal Anthropological Institute (Piccini),
and The Royal Society for arts, manufactures and commerce (Piccini), and an Honorary Fellow of
the Royal Historical Society (Hindson). Hornby was Chair of the Plainsong and Medieval Music
Society (2013-19). Fairclough has been founding co-chair of the International Musicological
Society Shostakovich study group since 2009, and of the BASEES Russian and Eastern European
Music Study Group since 2006, both groups bringing together Russian and Western scholars for
annual international panels.

    7. Indicators of wider influence
We are recognised as research leaders nationally and internationally. As well as monograph prizes
(Section 1), fellowships, journal editorships, and service on the organising committees of subject
associations (see above), we sit on editorial boards of journals and online archives (e.g. Falconer,
Heldt, McGirr, Piccini, Piper, Shaw-Miller, Street), and on advisory boards or boards of trustees
including BAFTSS (Street), British Empire and Commonwealth Collection, and Bristol Archives
(Maingard), Afrika Eye Film Festival (Maingard), Plymouth Art Cinema (Piccini). We have
presented keynotes at major international conferences (e.g. Clayton, Ellison, Hibberd, Hornby,
McGirr, Piccini, Street, Shaw-Miller).

We are active members and leaders of national and international networks and study groups,
including France: Musiques, Cultures (Hibberd, Sabbatini); MIAM Centre for Advanced Studies in
Music, Istanbul (Ellison); IMS Study Group Cantus Planus (Hornby); and Theatre and Performance
Research Association’s 'History and Historiography working group’ (Hindson). We examine PhDs
nationally (e.g. Oxford, Glasgow, Cardiff, University of London, St Andrews, York) and
internationally (e.g. Melbourne, Vaxjo, Leuven, Helsinki, Johannesburg, Waikato, TCD,
Macquarie), undertake peer review for leading academic presses and journals, and serve on peer
review colleges and panels for the AHRC (Fairclough, Heldt, Hibberd, Scheding, Williams),
Leverhulme (Jones*), ERC (Street), and international funders including chairing the International
Arts Grant committee, Academy of Finland (Shaw-Miller). We are advisors for Junior Research
Fellowships, promotion and tenure committees in Europe and the US, and for faculty and
programme reviews in the UK and Singapore. We organise and/or contribute to conferences and

                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
events including Being Human festival, Bringing Archives to Life, Bristol Film Festival, Festival of
Ideas, In Between Time (biennial festival of live art), and MayFest (contemporary theatre festival).
We sit on judging panels; indicative examples include Royal Anthropological Institute Film festival
(Maingard, Piccini), Annette Kuhn Essay Award, Screen (Piper), and European Composers
Competition at Swiss Brass, 2019 (Pickard).

Since 2014, our three departments have jointly built a research environment, supported by
university infrastructure and by our research networks, that generates field-defining research in
and beyond our disciplines. The critical mass achieved through our three key research strengths
and exceptional grant capture contributes significantly to developing and nurturing the potential of
all staff and PGRs.




                                                                                             Page 17
