Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Glasgow
 Unit of Assessment: 7
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1. Unit structure and context

This Unit of Assessment 7 submission combines the strengths of three sub-units across the
University of Glasgow (UofG) that contribute to our portfolio of Earth and environmental sciences
research. The sub-units are the School of Geographical and Earth Science’s (GES) Earth
Systems Research Group (ESRG) - main campus (23.92 FTE), the Scottish Universities
Environmental Research Centre (SUERC) - East Kilbride (17.4 FTE), and the School of
Interdisciplinary Studies’ environmental scientists (SIS) - Dumfries (2 FTE). This combination is
hereafter referred to as the “Unit”. The Unit comprises 44 Category A research staff who are
supported by 33 technical staff and 66 postgraduate students who shape our current structure, which
is consolidated into three inter-related research themes (Figure 1). Individuals named in bold below
are current Category A staff; individuals in italics left during the assessment period.

 Figure 1. Structure of Glasgow Earth Systems & Environmental Science Research
                                           Research Themes
                                    Ecosystem & Environment Change
   Research Expertise                Identifying critical interactions among   Technical Expertise
   Aquatic biogeochemistry         biology, chemistry and Earth that provide   Ar/Ar geochronology
   Earth Systems Processes          evidence for decisions about our future    Biological stable isotopes
   (Palaeo) Ecology                 Human-Environment Interactions             Clumped isotopes
   (Palaeo) Environment/Culture          De-risking human-environment          Cosmogenic nuclides
   Geochronology                     interactions by advancing spatial and     Geological stable isotopes
   Geospatial data science             temporal understanding of Earth’s       Low temp. thermochronology
                                         surficial and chemical changes
   Natural hazard resilience                                                   Micro-scale imaging
   Quantitative Geomorphology          Earth & Planetary Evolution             Noble gas geochemistry
   Solar system volatiles          Advancing fundamental understanding of      Organic geochemistry
                                      Earth and extra-terrestrial bodies;
   Sustainable natural resources                                               Radiocarbon dating
                                     innovating solutions for sustainable
                                         energy & natural resources


Research highlights since REF2014
   • SUERC remains one of the world’s largest facilities for Earth and environmental isotope
      chemistry encompassing a wide array of expertise and advanced instrumentation. SUERC
      specialises in geochronology from deep time to the Holocene (Ar/Ar, cosmogenic, low
      temperature thermochronology and radiocarbon) and in environmental and geological tracers
      using stable isotopes, clumped isotopes and noble gas geochemistry and radiogenic
      isotopes. This is reflected in the continued operation of a major component of NERC National
      Capability operation via the National Environmental Isotope Facility (NEIF-SUERC) funded
      through a competitive £8.7M award (2019-2024, Mark, Ascough, Barfod, Boyce, Fabel,
      Garnett, McGill, Newton). We have invested £4.7M in new instrumentation and
      infrastructure, much of it funded in open competition (e.g., NERC Strategic Environmental
      Science Capital Calls).

   •   We have achieved critical mass in planetary science adding three Category A staff (Daly,
       Einsle, Hallis) and increasing the PDRA and PGR cohort. STFC funding to Lee and Mark
       has enabled our research into the origin and evolution of asteroids, the Moon and Mars, while
       Hallis’ ground-breaking work showing the primordial origin of water on Earth (Science) has
       spawned new research. Our researchers contribute to direction of planetary research through
       contributions to the UK Space Agency Robotic Exploration (Lee) and Space Exploration
       Advisory Committees (Hallis) and AURORA Panel (Mark); iMOST for Mars sample return
       (Hallis, Daly) and the NASA Curation and Analysis Planning Team for Extraterrestrial
       Materials (Hallis).

                                                                                                     Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   •   We have enhanced the breadth and depth of our research in environmental hazards by
       leading two work packages in the NERC Living Deltas hub (£1.2M to UofG, Balke, Bass,
       Renaud) and have captured >£1M from NERC to assess and predict environmental hazards
       related to hydrometerological events (Williams), radionuclides in the environment (Cook),
       and ecological tipping points (Balke). NERC and ERC have supported >£2.8M for research
       that develops novel quantitative proxies for past climate and environmental change (Fabel,
       Toney), modern carbon efflux (Waldron) and consequences of climate change for
       biomineralization (Fitzer). Expertise in energy-related research is exemplified by EPSRC
       funding for geothermal research in East Africa (e.g., Combi-Gen Boyce) and over £1M
       income from natural gas-related research collaborations with Total and Petrobras (Stuart).

Sub-unit structure
GES is an interdisciplinary School with human and physical geography and Earth sciences
functioning collaboratively to create an inclusive research environment recognised by an Athena
SWAN Silver award. The Human Geography Research Group submits to UoA14; whereas physical
geography and Earth sciences as ESRG submit to UoA7. ESRG researches environmental hazards
and risks associated with fluvial and coastal erosion, carbon cycle, geospatial science, and
ecosystem thresholds including implications worldwide. Its researchers also focus on the evolution
of planets and planetary processes, including Earth. Leadership in palaeoclimatology and planetary
science is evidenced in international funding (ERC Starting Grant) and international roles in sample
return consortia from various space missions (e.g., iMOST, NASA, JAXA). ESRG has reinvigorated
the Unit’s staff profile by making 15 of our 18 Early Career Stage Researcher (ECSR) appointments.
New appointments have enhanced computation (Keller, Shi), data science (Basiri, Einsle, Petrie,
R Staff) and applied environmental research (Balke, Barrett, Bass, Moreau, Naylor, Williams) and
increased our expertise in cutting-edge isotope technology (Clog, MacDonald, McIntyre).

SUERC’s world-class isotope laboratories (Section 3.3) and specialist expertise underpin the Unit’s
research themes. Our biomedical researchers submit to UoA3, while environmental and Earth
science researchers submit to UoA7. SUERC’s analytical infrastructure and long-established
collaborative ethos underpins UK geoscience and ecological research. It is internationally renowned
for expertise using isotopes as tracers and chronometers, exemplified by the incorporation of NERC
NEIF node into SUERC’s analytical capacity and laboratory facilities. Internally, there is strong cross-
unit collaboration with research clusters around leading researcher expertise and funded projects
that apply cutting-edge technology, for example, in: Earth Systems Processes - low temperature
thermochronology to large-scale continent evolution (GLOW Laboratory, Persano, Stuart); Solar
System Volatiles - combining micro-scale imaging and high-precision geochronology to address key
problems in planetary evolution (Lee, Mark); Quantitative Geomorphology - cosmogenic nuclides to
determine rates and timing of coastal erosion and ice-cap melt (Fabel, Hurst, Stuart); and Palaeo-
environments - organic geochemistry for developing new quantitative proxies to reconstruct palaeo-
environments (Ascough, McIntyre, Toney, Staff). SIS’s environmental scientists (Renaud, Shi)
work closely with ESRG researchers (Balke, Bass), bringing expertise in Natural Hazard Resilience,
including hydrological modelling to address, for instance, environmental and agricultural risks in
highly populated deltaic systems.

1.2 Management structure

Each sub-unit has an internal management structure. GES and SIS have Executive committees
comprising the Head of School, Director of Research, Director of Learning & Teaching, and other
school representatives. SUERC’s Executive Group comprises the Director, Deputy Director, Director
of Research, Equality and Diversity Committee Chair and Financial Controller. Research strategy is
shared among sub-units through representation on local research committees and via the GES
Research Planning and Strategy Committee (chair Toney) and the College of Science and
Engineering’s (CoSE) Research and Knowledge Transfer Committee (Boyce and Toney). SUERC
Director (Stuart) and GES Head of School (Lee) sit on the CoSE Management Group.



                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


1.3 Research Objectives

The Unit identifies the following strategic objectives:
   • To maintain and enhance a global reputation for world-leading challenge-led and
      fundamental research across our research themes.
   • To enhance research skillsets in data science, computational geoscience and cutting-edge
      analytical technology and integrate them across Earth and environmental sciences.
   • Develop
          250 and diversify our ability to deliver solutions in partnership with stakeholders whilst
      leading discipline-specific expertise fundamental to our subjects.
   • Create an environment where all staff and students can fulfil their potential to deliver high
          200 research that is attractive to internationally renowned, collaborative scientists.
      quality
   • Deliver high calibre training for students and PDRAs to prepare them for careers in academia
      and industry.
          150
1.4 Progress on REF2014 strategy
           100
The upward trajectory of metrics of research activity from RAE2008 through REF2021 (Figure 2)
reflects the realisation of strategies developed in 2008 and then elaborated in 2014. Between
            50
REF2014 and REF2021 the number of papers in high impact journals has increased by 86%, total
research expenditure by 27% and the number of PhD awards by 58%. We have met the UofG
commitment0to making our research accessible with Open Access outputs increasing from 42% to
90% since 2014.
                    Mean annual       Papers in Science,    Total research      PhD Students (FTE)
                publication output* Nature family, &          expenditure
                         Figure 2. Success measures
                                            PNAS      of our research   strategy
                                                                (Million)
80
                                     RAE 2008      REF2014       REF 2021
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
 0
         Mean annual     # Papers in Science, Total Research         PhD Degrees
      publication output* Nature family, &1, 2 Income (£M) 3          Awarded
                               PNAS
                  1 Does not double count co-authored papers.
                         RAE 2008       REF2014
                  2 Excludes Scientific Reports
                                                    REF 2021
                  3 For REF, SUERC income is split equally between UofG & UofEdinburgh




In REF2014 we defined a strategy based on strengthening and gaining critical mass in four research
areas:

     1. Climate change using terrestrial and marine proxies, including clumped isotope techniques;
     2. Environmental hazard measurement and prediction, deploying sensors, remote sensing,
        geomatics;
     3. Isotopes for hydrocarbon and geothermal exploration;
     4. Extra-terrestrial research.



                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We have attracted researchers and fellows (11) from around the world (i.e., UKRI Future Leadership
Fellow (FLF), Newton/Royal Society, Leverhulme), highly skilled instrumentalists (3) and
interdisciplinary researchers (6) (summarised in Box 1). These new staff have reinforced our
expertise and grown leadership in disciplines that are integral to the three research themes that have
evolved from the process-based themes that were identified in REF2014: (i) surface; (ii) shallow
crust; (iii) Earth-life; (iv) extra-terrestrial and mantle (see Section 2).

The new research themes defined in Figure 1 are designed to address emerging challenges (e.g.,
consequences of anthropogenic environment and land-use change and the shift to carbon neutrality)
and maintain our strength in fundamental planetary and Earth science research. The new themes
incorporate multi-disciplinary perspectives and collaborative decision-making that are important to
solving emerging global challenges related to environmental risks and hazards, as well as
sustainable energy and resources.

1.5 Research objectives for the next 5-years

In the next 5-years, we will use our research infrastructure to achieve the Unit’s overarching research
objectives (Section 1.3), enhancing our global reputation in challenge-led and fundamental research
across our themes and providing opportunities for ECSRs (including PDRAs, PGRs) to develop
research-based careers in academia and industry.

Ecosystem & Environment Change
Building on leading contributions by Fabel, Garnett, Kamenos, Moreau, Toney (e.g., permafrost
contribution to atmospheric methane, NERC project: IceCapMelt, ERC project: ALKENoNE), our
research will address extremes arising from anthropogenically-induced changes to ecosystems and
environments. Early and mid-career researchers (Balke, Bass, Cameron, Clog, Hurst, McIntyre,
Moreau, Shi, Staff) are well-positioned to lead consortia, inform policy and conceive nature-based
solutions related to, e.g., increased rates of mobilized fossil carbon from sensitive environments;
increased rates and complex dynamics of coastal erosion and/or ice-sheet/cap decay; multiple
stressors on habitats due to changing environments; reconstructing ultra-high resolution, quantitative
records of past environments. New high precision 14C (Freeman), cosmogenic nuclide (Fabel,
Stuart), Ar/Ar (Barfod, Mark) and luminescence (Sanderson) instrumentation will provide unrivalled
chronological constraints crucial for quantifying rates of environmental change. High resolution mass
spectrometry will be used to unravel the sinks and sources of atmospheric methane that refine
projections of future Earth climate dynamics (Clog), while field-based mass spectrometry will allow
greenhouse gas budgeting (Bass) and tracking the fate of injected CO2 (Stuart). Novel stable
isotope techniques will be applied to animal ecology, particularly regarding the response of food
web/diet and animal migration to climate stressors (McGill, Newton).

Human-Environment Interactions
Novel systems approaches with communities and local government, as well as using data science
to put data at the heart of decision making will be key to ensuring research impact. Our researchers
have already demonstrated key contributions to shaping policy and practice around known and
emerging issues, such as erosion risks to people and property (Hansom, Naylor, Williams),
mitigating impacts of environmental and land-use change on agriculture/aquaculture (Barrett,
Renaud); improving biodiversity and connectivity of habitats in areas with a legacy of built
infrastructure (Naylor, Williams); reducing risk and increasing resilience of vulnerable communities
to impacts of climate change (Basiri, Petrie, Naylor). New approaches will be enabled by the
National Centre for Resilience (Director: Renaud) and the new UofG Centre for Sustainable
Solutions (Director: Toney) that promote innovation by connecting researchers, policymakers and
practitioners. We will exploit new isotope technology to explore the coincidences and consequences
of past climatic, environmental and social change (Ascough, Cook, Hamilton, Mark).

Earth & Planetary Evolution
In the coming years our researchers (Daly, Hallis, Lee, Mark) will pioneer discoveries into our solar
system’s origin leading analyses of samples returned from recent and impending missions, such as
JAXA’s Hayabusa2 mission to Ryugu, as well as from Mars and the Moon. New magnetic sector

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
mass spectrometry will open novel research into planetary interiors (Ellam, Stuart). We will address
challenges and develop solutions with partners in sustainable extraction of natural resources for
carbon-free solutions in the energy transition e.g., exploration for and extraction of key metals (Cu,
Co, V) for battery technology and electricity transmission (Boyce, Moreau). New fluid isotope tracers
will be used to quantify geothermal reservoirs, and trace economic natural gas and helium resources
(Boyce, Stuart) often with industrial partners. Furthermore, our ECSRs have capacity to lead the
field in computational modelling of Earth and planetary fluid processes (Keller), and applying
machine-learning to planetary evolution (Einsle).

1.6 Encouraging Interdisciplinary Research

Interdisciplinarity is integral to our research. Our Unit attracts and hosts international seminar
speakers from a range of disciplines who interact with our researchers weekly. Our submission
includes staff who integrated into our Unit from physics, ecology, and archaeology backgrounds.
Within the UofG we co-supervise M.Sc. and Ph.D. students with Schools of Physics, Engineering
and Chemistry in CoSE, and Institute of Biodiversity and Animal Health, and have long-term
collaborations with Engineering (geothermal research, Boyce; environmental compound- and
position-specific isotopes - Toney), and Mathematics and Statistics (international 14C calibration
Ascough, Cook). We have close associations with Human Geography researchers in GES hosting
workshops that create a natural pathway for interdisciplinary dialogues and research. For example,
workshops on stressed environments and communities have led to co-supervised PhD projects
(MacDonald’s ESRC-funded PGR on socio-environmental legacies of steel slag).

We have supported successful applications (Einsle) to the cross-disciplinary Lord Kelvin Adam
Smith Fellowship (LKAS) scheme, established in 2012 to attract outstanding research scientists to
conduct transformative research. We have also supervised 5 successful LKAS studentships, which
supports PhDs with co-supervisors from two or more Schools in the UofG.

We actively recruit researchers with a track record of cross-disciplinary research. For example,
Basiri (UKRI FLF, appointed to Chair of Geospatial Data Science) integrates research across CoSE
with statisticians, computing scientists, and engineers, as well as urban social scientists in the UofG
Urban Big Data Centre, the Institute for Health and Wellbeing and the Alan Turing Institute. This new
hub addresses environmental problems related to big data, such as missing data and bias issues,
as well as putting data at the centre of planning and decision-making.

1.7 Enabling and Facilitating Impact

Fostering a Culture of Research Impact
We have used workshops and externally facilitated discussion meetings to identify the potential
impact of our research, and to develop synergies within the Unit and across CoSE. PIs work with the
Research Impact team in CoSE to incubate and accelerate impact, and exploit relevant external
funding opportunities (e.g., UKRI KE schemes). Impact is a fundamental criterion for institutional
promotion and career progression at UofG.

Since REF2014 we have fostered research impact by establishing a knowledge exchange (KE) node
in natural hazards research, now led by Naylor and Williams. Success is demonstrated by the KE
awards to Naylor (NERC KE Fellowship £321k), Waldron (NERC Newton Fund £475k, £241k) and
Naylor, Williams (NERC £90k) and impact-related prizes (e.g., Scottish Impact Award to Hansom).

Impact is embedded in the collaborative relationships that Boyce and Stuart have developed with
companies exploring for minerals, and natural gases respectively. Impact culture within both
research nodes is fostered by regular PhD-PDRA interaction with industrial/external partners. Most
publications include industry co-authors, and researchers typically go on to work in industry or in
industry-funded academic positions.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research infrastructure
We have invested £3.5M in instrumentation and £1.2M for infrastructure improvements to support
our world-leading expertise in geochemistry techniques. We have found that the recognition of
expertise is key to impactful relationships with external partners. Three of our Impact Case Studies
(ICSs) are directly linked to our research infrastructure and expertise.

External Partnerships
We are early adopters of analytical technology and have skills in technique development that has
led to several patents. Over the REF period we have focused effort on forming long-term strategic
partnerships with key instrumentation manufacturers. The largest is the unique Technology
Agreement Partnership we have with ThermoFisher Scientific. We lead a consortium with business
partners, National Electric Corporation (USA) and Pantechnik S.A. (France), commercialising a
patented technology for long-lived radionuclide analysis (PIMS) that was invented and developed in
the SUERC AMS Laboratory (Freeman).

We have used state-of-the-art analytical techniques and proven research expertise to develop strong
research-focussed relationships with the hydrocarbon industry via formal research collaborations
with Total S.A. (France) and Petrobras (Brazil) (Stuart ICS), and with the mineral industry via training
programmes and CASE PhD awards (Scotgold Resources Ltd, Boliden Tara Mines Boyce). Our
partnership with Rare Whiskey 101 has successfully refined techniques for tracking fake Scotch malt
whisky, while our long-term relationship with Cellmark Forensics has resulted in bone 14C analysis
becoming a routinely applied forensic tool for all UK Police forces (both Cook ICSs). The natural
hazards node works in partnership with environmental engineering (Arup), energy (Scottish and
Southern Energy) and water resources (Scottish Water) with secondments with external partners
(i.e., Williams to CBEC Eco-Engineering Ltd).

International Research
We lead and contribute to challenge-led international agendas in developing countries through a
range of funders (Section 3). The diversity of funders enhances the vitality and sustainability of our
impactful research abroad from landmine risks in Myanmar (Barrett), paired novel geothermal
energy technology with potable water solutions in Ethiopia (Boyce), to understanding how food,
drink and environment influenced the social and political evolution of ancient cultures in Northern
Iraq (Toney).

Recruiting for Impact
We have recruited 21 Category A staff over the assessment period in order to build critical mass and
enhance research in priority areas. Two of the four priority areas have impact potential. Evidence of
excellence in research impact was a key criterion for all appointments and new staff have mentors
to foster impact development, creating a sustainable pathway for the longevity and reach of our
impact culture.

 2. People

2.1 Staffing Strategy & Evolution of the Current Staff Profile

Our staffing strategy is driven by recruitment to strengthen core research areas defined in REF2014
and research themes (Box 1). 32% of our Category A staff are international and the number of
Category A staff (44, FTE=43.3) has increased by 8 since REF2014. In tandem with this growth,
there has been a considerable reinvigoration of our staff profile with 48% appointed since REF2014.
A combination of staff retirements (5, 11%) and leavers who have taken up research chairs (Koehn,
Li, Phoenix, Xu) or national leadership roles (Cusack - Dean of Natural Sciences, University of
Stirling; Hoey - Vice Provost, Brunel University; Waldron - Director of Research and Skills, NERC)
has enabled recruitment of 18 early career researchers (Clog, Balke, Barrett, Bass, Cameron,
Daly, Einsle, Hallis, Hurst, Keller, MacDonald, McIntyre, Naylor, Neill, Owen, Petrie, Williams,
Staff) many from prestigious institutions (e.g., Basiri - UCL, Clog - Caltech, Einsle - Imperial,
MacDonald - Imperial, McIntyre - ETH-Zurich, Keller - Stanford). We have appointed mid-career
researchers (Shi) and research leaders (Basiri, Moreau, Renaud) while strengthening computation

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(Keller, Shi), data-driven (Basiri, Einsle, Petrie, Staff) and challenge-led (Balke, Barrett, Bass,
Moreau, Naylor, Williams) research and increased our expertise in cutting-edge isotope technology
(Clog, MacDonald, McIntyre), which are strongly represented across our research themes.

 Box 1: Recruitment into strategic priority areas:

 Ecosystem & Environment Change
 Climate change using terrestrial and marine proxies: we developed and retained RSE fellow:
 Kamenos marine palaeoecologist, multi-stressor impacts on marine corals and Leverhulme fellow
 Staff - Quaternary geochronologist, Bayesian statistical modelling chronological data; and
 recruited Cameron - glacial microbial ecologist, Clog - clumped isotope geochemist, McIntyre
 environmental organic geochemist, Petrie GNSS and geospatial science.

 Human-Environment Interactions
 Environmental hazards: recruitment of Basiri - geospatial data science (UKRI FLF); Balke -
 biogeomorphologist, thresholds and windows of opportunity for coastal habitats; Bass - aquatic
 and terrestrial biogeochemist; Barrett - remote sensing for habitat inventories, pollution risk,
 socio-ecological sustainability and agricultural improvements; Hurst - geomorphologist in actively
 tectonic landscapes and coastal erosion; Moreau - applied and fundamental geomicrobiologist;
 Naylor - biogeomorphologist, nature-based approaches to coastal and urban climate change
 risk/adaptation; Renaud - vulnerability, risk and resilience of social-ecological systems; Shi -
 hydrologic modeling of water resources and climate extremes; Williams - fluvial geomorphologist
 and geospatial scientist; Thomas - biogeomorphologist of critically endangered pearl mussels.

 Earth and Planetary Evolution
 Isotopes for hydrocarbon and geothermal exploration: increases in research funding and impact
 (Section 3); however, recruitment in Earth evolution has been driven by emerging priorities
 recruiting: Keller - computational geoscientist of magmatic processes; MacDonald - clumped
 isotopes and carbon sequestration by industrial waste; Owen - modern and ancient fluvial
 processes and reservoirs; Neill - lithospheric processes in geothermal energy, volcanic hazards,
 and critical metals.

 Extraterrestrial research: recruitment: Hallis - meteorite analysis for planetary formation; Daly -
 high-resolution geochemical analysis of planetary materials for understanding solar system
 evolution; Einsle - mineral physicist and data geoscience applied to Earth’s evolution.

Recruited research leaders (Basiri, Moreau, Renaud) enhance cross-theme activity, mentor our
growing ECSR cohort, and lead interdisciplinary research initiatives addressing societal challenges.
Twelve staff who were ECRs during the REF period have achieved promotion with assistance of
formal UofG mentoring structures of our Early Career Development Programme (ECDP) and
leadership training courses, such as, Aurora Leadership, Academic Leadership, Aspiring or
Emerging Leaders, Senior Research Leaders, and University Leadership. Attendance on courses is
split 50:50 among males and females. Our mentees are thus progressing through to senior roles in
the Unit. Researchers promoted this REF cycle include: Senior Lecturers - Ascough, Balke, Barrett,
D. Brown, Fabel, Persano, Thomas, Williams; Readers - Kamenos, Naylor; Professors: Mark,
Toney. Senior staff help set the strategy for the Unit’s research culture, and are now emerging
national leaders (Cusack, Hoey, Waldron).




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.2 Equality, diversity and inclusion

During this REF period, gender diversity across the Unit rose from 22% (8 of 36) female staff in
2013/14 to 27% (12 of 44, 2019/20). This increase stems from a proactive approach to reshape our
sub-units by engaging with self-assessment and creating strategic action plans through Athena
SWAN. ESRG increased its proportion of female staff from 21% (4 of 19) in REF2014 to 38% (9 of
24) in REF2021. This change was instigated via concerted awareness raising via our local
SWAN@GES brand of Athena SWAN (AS) Bronze (2014-2017) and continued actions and
awareness raising through our Silver award and action plan (2017-2022).

SUERC’s profile shifted from 24% (4 of 17) female researchers in REF2014 to 17% (3 of 18) in
REF2021. SUERC self-assessed their profile and achieved AS Bronze in 2019. SUERC’s self-
assessment and action plan was commended by the AS panel for its honesty and ambition.
SUERC’s action plan includes measures to increase diversity by establishing search committees to
diversify applicant pools for new posts; proactively supporting promotion and regrading of existing
staff; and metric-based monitoring of the efficacy of actions to improve diversity. The opportunity for
change through new appointments is slow due to a historically low staff turnover rates (only three
appointments since REF2014). However, in part due to its maturing demographic, SUERC will
actively seek to recruit a more diverse cohort over the next 5-years. SIS (2) also holds an AS Bronze
award since 2017.

Across the Unit, we have clear lines of communication for issues arising from all staff, including those
with protected characteristics. Bespoke arrangements are created as needed to carry out research
productively, but are not discussed explicitly here, because there are low numbers of staff using
these options and it would impinge on their privacy.

The Unit followed UofG Code of Practice for output selection. Outputs were selected and configured
to maximise the Unit’s GPA even if outputs were allocated unevenly across staff, staff at different
career stages, or not allocated to their senior author.

2.3 Staff development

At the university level, a series of policies and activities support, reward and celebrate our research
culture, including being a signatory to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers. Newly appointed academic staff at grades 7 and 8 join ECDP. This programme
provides learning and development opportunities in all aspects of the academic role to aid in
progression from Grade 7 to Grade 8 within three years and to Grade 9 (e.g., senior lecturer) in a
further five years. Our data show that ECSRs (those on ECDP) thrive in our environment and capture
their first grant award within two-years in a permanent post. Our senior researchers provide subject-
specific support and guidance as mentors for ECDP. A much larger proportion of our staff are on
ECDP (32%) than were ECRs in REF2014 (14%) (Table 3), delivering new energy and drive to our
research portfolio.

Table 1. Staff profile REF 2014 versus REF2021 (Note: we use ECDP as an indicator of early career
stage researchers)

                                          REF2014                             REF2021
           Theme               Total      ECDP #       ECDP         Total     ECDP #        ECDP
                               Staff                    (%)         Staff                    (%)
   Ecosystem         &              18            2       11%            20           5        25%
   Environment Change
   Human-Environment                  2           0         0%            9           2        22%
   Interactions
   Earth & Planetary                16            3        19%           15           7        47%
   Evolution
                 Total:             36            5        14%           44          11        32%


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Our senior research leaders support mid- and early-career researchers through annual objective-
setting, hosting promotion workshops, and assistance with funding applications. Collegiality is
explicitly valued in the University’s promotion criteria and rewarded through an annual Research
Culture Award (Kamenos 2019, highly commended Keller 2020). Our progressive culture of
diversity and inclusion is underpinned, reflected on and monitored as part of the AS Silver action
plan in GES and the Bronze action plans in SUERC and SIS. The Unit embeds good practice through
implementation of:
    • a core-hours culture.
    • support structures to increase women’s understanding and confidence of promotion
         processes. We recognised that fewer women put themselves forward (21% of promotion
         applications despite 29% female staff in the eligible pool (22) from 2010/11 to 2012/13). Since
         2013, biannual promotion workshops and active encouragement of female staff has resulted
         in 36% of applications from females (10 out of 28 applications) since 2013 with 100% success
         for female applicants.
    • clear maternity or shared parental leave policies with assistance to gain financial support
         upon staged return. Our three female returners accessed £28k in total to support their
         research activities in staged transitions back into work.
    • higher visibility of internal and external female role models via ‘Career Stories’ over coffee
         with seminar speakers exposes ECSRs to different career pathways and work-life balance
         strategies.

Sub-unit Equality and Diversity committees continually monitor demographic profiles to identify
emergent issues in equality, diversity and inclusion. These committees look beyond gender, which
is the focus of Athena SWAN. Our evolving agenda commits us to tackle gender,
race and LGBTQ+ inequality through an open, sensitive and transformative approach covering
issues such as work-life balance, career development opportunities for women and early career
colleagues, mentoring, and progression.

2.2 Career Development Opportunities

We develop and enable all research staff (R&T and R-only) through:

   •   Reduced administrative and teaching loads via leave for research/impact development -
       Research and impact leave is available to all staff (fixed-term, open-ended, part-time) and is
       enabled by Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTAs) (n>300 since 2014) who underpin
       laboratory/fieldwork elements of course delivery and teaching support. Focus-groups showed
       many GTAs plan to pursue academic careers. Teaching experience is important to this
       trajectory and so we provide substantial training for GTAs on teaching methods and skills.
       Researchers with significant salary recoup through grant income are given reduced teaching
       and administrative workloads without official leave.
   •   Support for acquiring research funding – Our Research Committees provide internal proposal
       and manuscript peer-review and mock fellowship interviews. These supplement
       comprehensive grant-writing workshops through ECDP at College level.
   •   Rewarding grant capture - We reward successful grant capture enabling additional research
       by returning a proportion of grant overheads to individual PIs (two-thirds of each project’s
       contribution in the previous year is returned).
   •   Supporting ECSRs - We have a central fund that supports >40 staff and research students
       to attend national (~20%) and international (~80%) conferences annually.
   •   Providing flexible working arrangements – The ability to remotely operate analytical
       equipment has improved efficiency and data quality. Consequently, many researchers work
       from home via formal time off in lieu (TOIL) schemes.
   •   Strategic leadership opportunities - Early and mid-career staff are given strategic leadership
       opportunities to promote career development. Appropriate training and shadowing of senior
       staff is provided, as well as reductions in administration and teaching duties. E.g., Head of



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       ESRG is filled by a collegiate Lecturer or Senior Lecturer with grant capture and shows future
       research vision (Phoenix 2014-2016, Toney 2017-2019, Barrett 2019-current).
   •   Research Leadership training is offered at all levels including a Senior Research Leadership
       programme that convenes cross-UofG senior researchers, provides 360-reflective leadership
       practice, and high-level opportunities for strategic career development.

Career Development for Early Career Researchers - ECDP participants engage with an associated
‘Rewards for Excellence’ scheme (won by Balke, 2018; Hallis 2020). Senior researchers contribute
training on grant-writing, social media profiles and career development. ECDP includes a graduated
introduction to a full teaching load from 50% in Year-1, increasing to 100% in Year-3. All ECSRs
have successfully completed this programme since 2014. Our ECSRs are emerging as leaders
through high-impact outputs, prestigious/competitive grant capture (Section 3.1), leading impactful
research (Section 1.7), and national and international esteem indicators (Section 4.5).

Since 2015, as an Athena SWAN action, we provide biennial career transition workshops for all
academic, technical and professional staff that are co-produced and delivered by the College
Director of HR. Each workshop has been well attended (>70% of staff and PGR) across all
demographics (e.g., contract type, gender). Pre- and post-workshop surveys indicated that the
workshops improve individuals’ understanding of promotion and increase confidence in transition to
the next career stage. The workshops identified the need for pro-rated career pathways for part-time
and fixed-term staff, and follow-on work co-designed and co-produced bespoke promotion criteria
for part-time staff with HR. These criteria have been used in successful promotions for two part-time
staff in ESRG.

Our research leaders voluntarily take part in University-level mentoring schemes, for example,
Boyce provided mentorship to Toney via the University-level AS programme (starting 2013) and
supported Toney’s successful promotion to Senior Lecturer in 2015 and Professor in 2018.

Career Development for Technical Staff – The 33 technical staff across the Unit underpin research
productivity, quality and value, as well as, delivering training to research students and staff. UofG is
a signatory to the Science Council-led Technician Commitment that recognizes that the career
progression and pathways for technicians are different from the academic trajectory. Beyond UofG
offerings, we invest in training in the latest technology provided by instrument manufacturers, e.g.,
ThermoFisher, Agilent, and CPD training provided by, e.g., Royal Society of Chemistry. Many of our
technicians have PhDs and contribute more than routine support to projects. We have adopted
CRediT principles and a Code of Practice for how technicians should be included on peer-reviewed
publications. We provide flexible working, e.g., support part-time work (15% of our cohort) or
condensed hours (15%). Four technicians are studying for PhDs.

Our technicians provide leadership within the workplace, e.g., contributing to Health and Safety and
Executive Committees, and beyond, e.g., by providing SQA-approved courses on technical glass
blowing across Scotland. They are encouraged to engage externally; Salik won a personal award
for his service as a peer reviewer of Technician Commitment signatory self-assessments and action
plans, and best poster at the Signatory Event in Birmingham (2019). Our technical staff underpin our
widening participation initiatives helping develop our Nuffield Research Placement projects,
widening participation Summer Schools for Access, and ‘Girls into Geoscience’ (first held in
Scotland, led by Owen in August 2019, virtually in 2020).

2.3 Research Students
The CoSE Graduate School provides a range of training and development opportunities and
wellbeing initiatives for PGRs, promotes research excellence and integrity, provides support and
guidance (e.g., College Research Student COP) and develops PGR supervisors.

Doctoral degrees awarded have increased from 48 in REF2014 to 76 in REF2021. Awards to
students who identify as BAME has increased gradually from 21% (2013/14) to 36% (2019/20).
International PGRs (57%) add to the diversity of our research community. Our cohort is well-
balanced ranging from 50 to 59% female students in any given year since 2014, and the number of

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
degrees awarded to female PhD students averages 51% (39 of 76), and annually comprises between
33% and 67%. While we use conventional methods of PhD recruitment (e.g., FindaPhd.com), our
advertising strategy takes advantage of disciplinary and interdisciplinary listservs such as
GEOGFEM, ESWN, and the Women and Geography Specialty Group of RGS-IBG,
the Scottish Transgender Alliance and GRAMNET to help diversify our applicant pool.

Doctoral degrees awarded has increased from 4 per year (2013/14) to 15 (2019/20). Each student
has a mandatory co-supervisor to provide pastoral support. 40% of our staff have completed First
Aid Mental Health Training to help recognise, respond to and support students experiencing mental
health issues.

Our key PGR strategy over the assessment period was to increase the cohort by:
   • Involvement in Doctoral Training Programmes across several HEIs. ESRG/SUERC are
       partners in NERC IAPETUS DTP (I and II) with Durham, Newcastle, Stirling, St. Andrews,
       and Heriot Watt Universities. SUERC is also a partner in the University of Edinburgh, NERC
       E3/E4 DTP and supports several other DTPs through NERC Facilities. 20% of our students
       since 2014 are part of the IAPETUS DTP. These students benefit from a strong network of
       expertise and supervision across partner HEIs. In November 2016 Toney and Mark led a 3-
       day Isotope Training workshop for 21 students from the NERC IAPETUS DTP.
   • Increasing internal and external funding offers to attract excellent PGRs. PGR funding in the
       last 5-years comes from a diverse range of sources: RCUK, industry (ThermoFisher
       Scientific, Air Monitors Ltd, Boliden Tara Mines, Assmang) and governmental sources.
       Specific awards come from the Carnegie Foundation, NERC IAPETUS DTP, NERC CASE
       studentships, Industry-funded, and international government studentships from China, Libya,
       Brazil, Iraq, Honduras and Malaysia.

Our students take advantage of the CoSE Graduate School’s mobility fund. Typically 4 students per
annum visit overseas institutions to collaborate and learn new techniques, which has enhanced
funded projects (e.g., ERC, NERC, Leverhulme, STFC). The Unit provides a supportive environment
that includes informal coffee socials for mentoring and networking among PGRs by PDRAs and
research staff. These have become especially active (virtually) and important during the Covid-19
pandemic. PGRs have opportunities to meet external seminar speakers to get career stories and
exposure to different routes into academia and industry. PGRs self-organise and lead an annual
progression conference to share research. We encourage ECSRs to gain experience by co-
supervising PGRs. We run workshops and signpost UofG studentship awards, giving preference to
ECSRs for studentship allocations when available. All PGRs including MSc-by-research are actively
involved in presenting research at discipline-specific national and international conferences (e.g.,
AGU, ASLO, BOGS, EGU, Goldschmidt, LPSC), promoting their international reputation and
supported by our local Conference Support fund. On average ~80% of our Conference Support and
~60% of our Research/Impact Enabling support is awarded to PGRs.

External PGR training: We host >50 visiting UK and international PhD students annually, for
intensive training in the principles and laboratory practice of analytical geoscience. Many student
projects are facilitated by direct, peer-reviewed access to the five NERC Facility laboratories. NERC
Facility staff provide annual “Introduction to the Principles and Practice of Stable Isotope
Geochemistry” open to all NERC PGRs. Staff teach on national and international graduate schools
and have developed programmes, e.g., Stuart and Persano annually run week-long PGR courses
in Low Temperature Thermochronology at Chinese Universities (Beijing, Chengdu and Nanjing).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Research Income
Over the REF period our Unit has focussed on diversifying funding streams and growing research
income. Our research income has remained steady since 2013/14 averaging £3.4M ± £0.3M/year.
In REF2014, 88% of our income came from BEIS research councils (59%) and UK industry (29%).
The broad base of our funding is now more diversified with 51% (£12.3M) from BEIS Research
councils and a majority of the remaining sources from UK industry (24%, £5.6M), EU funding (11%,

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
£2.5M), and UK government bodies (7%, £1.7M). Increasing trends in BEIS funding by ~£147k/year
since 2016, UK government funding by ~£29k/year since 2015, and UK industry/commerce by
£40.6k/year since 2015 (Figure 3) are partially masked by a drop in EU funding after 2016.

 Figure 3. Trends in research income by HESA funding category
                    Trend BEIS funding since 2014
  £2,100,000
  £2,000,000
  £1,900,000
  £1,800,000
  £1,700,000
  £1,600,000
                                                                                     Trend UK Industry funding since 2014
  £1,500,000
                                                                        £1,050,000
  £1,400,000
                                                   y = 146650x - 3E+08
  £1,300,000                                                           £1,000,000
                                                        R² = 0.9347
  £1,200,000                                                              £950,000
             2015      2016      2017       2018       2019      2020
                                                                          £900,000

                Trend UK Gov't funding since 2014                         £850,000

  £250,000                                                                £800,000
  £230,000                                                                £750,000                               y = 40565x - 8E+07
  £210,000                                                                                                           R² = 0.7107
                                                                          £700,000
  £190,000
  £170,000                                                                       2014     2015   2016   2017   2018   2019   2020
  £150,000
  £130,000
  £110,000
   £90,000                                   y = 28507x - 6E+07
   £70,000
                                                 R² = 0.8645
   £50,000
         2014       2015      2016   2017     2018       2019    2020


Our focus on developing our ECSRs (18 this REF period) is notable in our trajectory with our Grade
8 and Grade 9 staff capturing 62% of our new award income in 2019/20, compared to on average
~41% in previous years and Professors capturing the majority of awards (up to 65%) in previous
years (Figure 4). These data reflect the progression of our ECSRs who are emerging as new
research leaders, replacing the former top income earning professoriate who have moved onto
national leadership roles.

We expect our trajectory over the next 5-years to continue to rise with known awards already
approved and in the pipeline, e.g., the newly commissioned NEIF-SUERC facilities (£8.7M, 2019-
2024), NERC highlight topic CuBES (£1.9M, 2020-2025 to Boyce, Co-PI), recruitment of Basiri
(£1.2M, 2020-2028 UKRI FLF), leading work packages in the NERC Living Delta’s Hub (£1.2M,
2019-2024 to UofG, Balke, Bass, Renaud, Co-Is) and new NERC projects, e.g. ScotIce (£668k,
2019-2022 to Fabel, PI).

Active encouragement to apply for seed funding for innovating solutions to problems in developing
countries through Scottish Funding Council GCRF has laid the foundation for future cross-
disciplinary networks and consortia:

    •     Merging art and science to create sustainable futures in Malawi (£47k) and Africa more
          broadly (£75k) - Barrett with UofG colleagues in Arts (Bisschoff), Engineering (Burnside),
          Education (Capsada-Munsech)
    •     Promoting sustainable tropical livestock production in Colombia (£23k) Barrett with
          Veterinary Medicine (Jonsson), Agriculture (Arango)
    •     SFC GCRF Nature-based solutions for river management in the Philippines (£35k) Williams




                                                                                                                         Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Figure 4. Proportioned Award Value by Grade
 £1,600,000
                                    Grade 7          Grade 8
 £1,400,000
                                    Grade 9          Professor
 £1,200,000
 £1,000,000
  £800,000
  £600,000
  £400,000
  £200,000
        £0
              2013/14     2014/15    2015/16    2016/17    2017/18    2018/19    2019/20

                                                             *Excludes NERC NEIF Awards
While we encouraged and supported EU funding routes during this REF period (Hamilton - ERC
Advanced, Koehn - FlowTrans ITN, Toney - ERC Starting Grant, 5 Marie Curie Fellowships, Boyce
– LoCAL EU Coal and Steel Fund), we recognised risks given uncertainty around Brexit. As a result,
staff have developed portfolios targeting wider international schemes, which are showing
considerable success, e.g. (awards reported in proportion allocated to UofG):
    • NERC-Newton Scheme, The transmissive critical zone: understanding the karst hydrology-
       biogeochemical interface for sustainable management (Waldron, Naylor, £489k)
    • NERC SE Asia Hazards, Catchment susceptibility to hydrometeorological events: sediment
       flux and geomorphic change as drivers of flood risk in the Philippines (Williams, £381k)
    • STFC, A journey from the solar nebula to planetary bodies: cycling of heat, water and
       organics (Lee, £313k)
    • NERC-Newton Scheme, MOnitoring Mangrove ExteNT & Services (MOMENTS): What is
       controlling Tipping Points? (Balke, £289k)
    • Leverhulme, Setting artefacts free: an independent chronology for British Iron Age brooches
       (Hamilton, £258k)
    • Historic Scotland, Living on Water - Early Iron Age - Lake Dwelling Communities in Scotland
       (Hamilton, £259k)

From 2013/14 to 2019/20 the top funders of our research awards by total apportioned value, include:
NERC (£8.9M - excluding NERC facilities, 58% of all awards); the European Commission and ERC
(£2.2M, 14%), Leverhulme Trust (£826k, 5%), STFC (£593k, 4%), with the remaining 20% (£3.0M)
of our awards spread across >50 different funding sources. Our diverse research base enables us
to lead and collaborate to capture a wide range of funding sources.

3.2 Strategy to grow research income:

We project research income growth given our Unit’s strengths and forward-looking strategy. We
have identified several funding sources that reflect our future trajectory, including:

   •   Strategic and directed funding schemes: NERC funding beyond discovery science schemes
       has included Newton Fund CZO initiative with NSFC (£450k to Waldron), Urgency grants
       (Hurst and Naylor - New Zealand Earthquakes, £22k; Hoey, Barrett and Williams -
       Environmental Risks to Infrastructure, £381k) and Highlight Topics (Boyce - CuBES, £95k;
       Hurst and Naylor - coastal processes, £27k). We have strong links with local governments
       at home and abroad and aim to build Strategic Programme initiatives around routes to carbon
       neutrality along with rethinking and revaluing natural and environmental resources.
   •   Broadening UKRI funding beyond NERC: We aim to build on successes with BBSRC
       (Barrett, Cusack, Thomas), EPSRC (Boyce, Cusack, Fitzer, Kamenos, Lee, Naylor,

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Phoenix, Stuart, Waldron, Williams) and STFC (Hallis, Lee, Mark, Phoenix, Toney). A
       critical mass of staff undertake research in the remit of Research Councils beyond NERC.
       Champions for each Research Council with responsibility to inform staff of impending funding
       schemes and assist in developing proposals and collaborations raise awareness of
       opportunities. Our breadth makes us well-placed to exploit future cross-council funding
       initiatives in fields like heritage science, the energy transition, and carbon sequestration by
       waste products.
   •   Industrial collaboration: We have long-established relationships with international food,
       mining, exploration and hydrocarbon industries, among others. We are well-placed to
       continue dialogues that bring together industry-facing researchers to discuss problems,
       approaches, and joint solutions. We have established a new role in the Unit for external
       engagement to build links internally and externally, with an aim for these industry
       collaborations to meet the target carbon neutrality by 2050.

In addition to practices described in Sections 1.6 and 1.7 and the focus we place on people through
career development opportunities (Section 1.2), we will improve our provision of various schemes
across the Unit, paying particular attention to:
    • Mentoring early- and mid-career researchers through regular one-one meetings with
        experienced researchers.
    • Assuring proposal quality through internal and College peer-review, where appropriate (e.g.
        Future Leader Fellowship schemes).
    • Holding focused research planning workshops with external/international/industrial partners
        (e.g., HALO Trust, International Center for Tropical Agriculture) that have engaged us
        through ongoing strategic developments (e.g., collaborative project development, academic
        exchanges, co-supervision of PGRs).
    • Encouraging international research links through, i.e., a research enabling fund and exploit
        our international-level expertise through high profile seminars and discussion groups.
    • Buying out researcher time from teaching and/or routine lab work to develop proposals.
    • Ensuring use of Impact Acceleration Funding opportunities across the UKRI remit.

3.3 Facilities, Technical Support and Advanced Equipment:

Facilities: Our Unit has a world-leading capability in mass spectrometry and allied techniques, such
as luminescence and radiochemistry. SUERC hosts one of the largest concentrations of such
instrumentation in the world and has developed a global reputation for its analytical expertise. This
complements expertise and instrumentation in ESRG. Over the REF period we invested >£3.5M in
state-of-the-art instrumentation to maintain our capability, including new mass spectrometers (e.g.,
CI-MS, TIMS, NGMS, LA-ICPMS and GC-IRMS), front-end capability (e.g., lasers and gas benches)
and hardware/software upgrades. This has required >£1.2M investment in infrastructure. Funding
sources include UK Research Councils, industry, and strategic investment from CoSE. Our facilities
and infrastructure are crucial to research collaboration across the UK and abroad, as well as to
academic and commercial partnerships with industry and government.

For example, >50 scientists and PGRs visit us annually to receive in-depth training, obtain high-
quality isotope data and develop interpretative skills. The international reach is reflected in the high
percentage of international co-authors in our Unit’s outputs (e.g., Armenia, Australia, Canada, China,
Japan, Ireland, Italy, Myanmar, Netherlands, Pakistan, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania,
USA). Below we highlight the main laboratories relevant to UoA7.

We strive to maintain and expand our unrivalled breadth of stable isotope technology. Our stable
isotope laboratories have 13 mass spectrometer-based systems that focus on geoscience,
environmental science and ecology (Newton & Boyce). CF-IRMS are also dedicated in the
Radiocarbon laboratories (Hamilton & Ascough). Clumped isotope science is a rapidly expanding
field. Clog runs a ThermoFisher-253 Plus instrument for carbonates and the high-resolution 253
Ultra for analysis of rare isotopologues of gases, one of a handful of these instruments world-wide.



                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We have laboratories with world-leading capability for Ar/Ar dating (Barfod, Mark) and noble gas
isotope analysis (Stuart). This includes 8 static gas magnetic-sector mass spectrometers, 3 of which
were purchased in the REF period, all with dedicated gas extraction systems. The SUERC
Radiogenic Isotope laboratory (Ellam) hosts two thermal-ionisation mass spectrometers, including
a new ThermoFisher Triton Plus purchased in 2020. SUERC and ESRG host 2 inductively-coupled
plasma mass spectrometers (ICPMS), with SUERC acquiring a state-of-the-art ICPMS optical
emission spectrometer in 2019 and ESRG acquiring a laser ablation ICPMS in 2016.

The Accelerator Mass Spectrometry (AMS) laboratory (Fabel, Freeman, McIntyre) is equipped with
two National Electrostatic Corporation (NEC) instruments in a dedicated building on the SUERC site.
It performs ~10,000 analyses annually (14C, 10Be, 26Al and 36Cl). The AMS also developed, patented
and hosts the first operational Positive Ion Mass Spectrometer (PIMS), developed in-house with NEC
and Pantechnik.

The Luminescence laboratory (Sanderson) is equipped with three thermoluminescence readers
developed in-house, including a 24-sample automated system, and two spectrometers for photo-
stimulated luminescence. It has low-level beta counting and high-resolution gamma spectrometry
equipment (MacKinnon) for environmental radioactivity determinations.

An integrated Low Temperature Thermochronology capability (GLOWlab Persano, Stuart) is a joint
ESRG-SUERC operation, incorporating U-Pb, fission track and (U-Th)/He analysis.

Our organic geochemistry facilities include the Biomarkers for Environmental and Climate Science
(BECS) laboratory (Toney), which enables the extraction (accelerated solvent extractor),
preparation (advanced organic chemistry wet lab), characterisation (GC-MS), quantification (GC-
FID) and compound-specific isotopic composition (GC-IRMS) of hydrocarbon molecules. Our
organic geochemistry complements these techniques and expertise with the co-development of
compound-specific radiocarbon analyses (Ascough, McIntyre, Staff, Toney) and added catalytic
hydropyrolysis for analysis of recalcitrant organics (Ascough).

In addition to rock, mineral and water preparation facilities, suites of clean rooms and wet chemistry
laboratories, the Unit hosts specialist sample characterisation and preparation laboratories that
complement our analytical capabilities. For example, a suite of Radiocarbon preparation laboratories
(Cook, Hamilton, Ascough & Garnett) for archaeological (e.g., bones, teeth, ceramic) and
environmental (e.g., organic solids and gases) material for AMS 14C determination; and stable
isotope vacuum extraction systems for O, H, S and C training and analyses of minerals, fluids and
organic matter (Boyce, McGill, Newton). The Imaging Spectroscopy and Analysis Centre
(ISAAC)(Lee) hosts two field-emission SEMs equipped with X-ray spectrometers (energy- and
wavelength-dispersive) and electron backscatter diffraction systems for high-resolution materials
characterisation. ISAAC is integrated into the UofG Kelvin Nano-characterisation Centre that has a
suite of transmission electron microscopes and focused ion beam instruments.

Our field-based instrumentation includes the Environmental Sensing & Analysis Facility (ESAF)
(Balke, Barrett, Bass), which includes laser scanners, total stations, DGPS, UAVs, RGB
multispectral and thermal sensors and hand-held VNIR spectroradiometers and a portable Picarro
gas analyser for in situ CO2 and CH4 measurements. The Marine Mesocosm Facility
(MMF) (Kamenos) has 128 remotely monitored mesocosms for exploring the impact of CO 2-
associated global change on marine biotic and geochemical systems.

NERC Facilities: Since the mid-1990s several laboratories have been embedded within the NERC
Services and Facilities portfolio. Following a NERC review of National Capability, in 2019 we
successfully bid to host an innovative delivery platform called the National Environmental Isotope
Facility (NEIF). The award (PI, Mark, £8.7M over 5-years) supports six laboratories:
   • 40Ar/39Ar geochronology: Barfod (co-I)
   • High-temperature stable isotopes: Boyce (co-I)
   • Stable isotopes in life science: Newton & McGill (co-I)
   • In situ cosmogenic radionuclides: Fabel (co-I)

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Radiocarbon: Ascough (co-I) and Garnett (co-I)
   •   AMS laboratory: Freeman (co-I) & Fabel (co-I)

NEIF provides UKRI-eligible researchers access to world-class expertise and analytical capability in
geo-, eco- and environmental science, managed and peer-reviewed (bi-annually) by NERC steering
committees. The Facilities deliver ~30 projects/year, which support NERC Discovery Science,
Programmes, Large Grants and Highlight Topics, and peer-reviewed governmental and industrial
research. As a result, over the REF period, the Facility laboratories have trained >120 UK PhD
students, producing >80 PhD theses, and contributed to >400 peer-reviewed papers.

Advanced equipment: we work with technology companies using our expertise to develop new
instruments and applications. For example, with NEC and Pantechnik we have co-developed and
patented a new type of mass spectrometer, PIMS, which is in production and set to drastically reduce
sample preparation times for radiocarbon applications. Our strategic partnership with ThermoFisher
Scientific has resulted in new developments in clumped isotope software and hardware, and noble
gas isotope and Ar/Ar instrumentation.

Technical support: The strong laboratory-based component of the Unit means that a highly valued
and skilled and well-supported technical staff cohort is fundamental to our research success. For
example, technicians out-number REF-returned research staff 26 to 18 in SUERC, and they
comprise 23% of ESRG staff (7 to 24). The contribution goes beyond the routine; in most cases our
technicians maintain and trouble-shoot complex instrumentation and are skilled in the development
of novel software and hardware solutions. We have maintained technician staffing levels at their pre-
2015 levels. Over the REF period over ~25% of the highly skilled, long-serving technical staff have
retired. Replacements are typically early career, many joining with BSc, MSc and PhD degrees.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Strategy to grow research collaborations, networks and partnerships

The Unit will continue to play a leading role in shaping a research base that provides evidence for
political, societal and organisational decision-making around global environmental and resource
challenges. Crucially we will continue to engage with learned societies (e.g., Royal Scottish
Geographical Society, Geological Society of London (GSL), Universities Geoscience UK, Royal
Society Edinburgh), consult with external partners and alumni employers to understand how our
research can best contribute to shifting societal and economic priorities. Additionally, we will provide
leadership for high-profile international projects such as missions with return samples from planetary
bodies; and security of supply of critical metals for the global low-carbon future.

The Unit will use its research themes as the foundation for supporting existing and emerging
collaborations, networks and partnerships. Researchers in all themes lead and contribute to
international and interdisciplinary collaborations (Sections 1.5 and 1.6). Our research leaders are
opening pathways to larger, international networks and partnerships through a number of initiatives,
such as:

(1) Our Unit leads new methods for collaboration via the Centre for Sustainable Solutions (CfSS)
(established April 2020, Director: Toney). CfSS is working in partnership with Glasgow City Council
and Policy Scotland in the lead up to COP26. An important focus is on blue-green transformation
using the city as a driver of change to accelerate systems approaches to leadership for sustainability.
Naylor and Toney are active members of the COP26 Universities Network led by the Grantham
Institute, Imperial College, to lead scientific communication and showcase UK research approaching
COP26 in Glasgow. CfSS has engaged researchers across our themes in new networks and
partnerships and is providing the infrastructure to maintain these as a legacy following COP26.
Topics now part of ongoing consultations with Glasgow City Council include:
     • Ecosystem & Environment Change - nature-based solutions (Balke) for creating green
         corridors and spaces (Naylor) that connect environmental and human health benefits;
     • Human-Environment Interactions - re-naturing floodplains (Shi, Williams) and converting

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        polluted/derelict land into carbon sequestration sites using industrial waste (MacDonald).
    •   Earth and Planetary Evolution - low-carbon energy solutions creating new networks of
        mine-water for geothermal energy (Boyce, Moreau).

(2) Our planetary science researchers have taken advantage of new virtual norms due to Covid-19
engaging with prestigious colleagues, hosting an international seminar series. Seminars provide
network building opportunities for ECSRs (including PGRs/PDRAs). The seminars attract key
international researchers, due to the roles that our researchers play on notable committees, including
UK Space Agency (UKSA) Robotic Exploration Committee (Lee) and Space Exploration Advisory
Committee (Hallis); UKSA AURORA Panel (Mark); iMOST for Mars sample return (Hallis, Daly)
and NASA Curation and Analysis Planning Team for Extraterrestrial Materials (Hallis). Daly and Lee
are participating scientists for JAXA’s Hayabusa2 mission to the asteroid Ryugu, and Daly is a fellow
of the Royal Astronomical Society. Mark is a member of grant panels for STFC Astronomy, UKSA,
STFC, on BEIS Mars Sample Return Curation Facility Working Group, and Chair of Scottish
Planetary Science Research Network. Research into space exploration capture the minds of the
general public with whom our planetary group engage regularly (Section 4.3).

(3) In addition to the strategic industrial partnership building (Section 1.3), Boyce has expanded
opportunities for collaboration, networking and partnership building in sustainable natural resources
as Lead Organiser and Chair of the largest biennial meeting of the Society for Geology Applied
(SGA) to Mineral Deposits, Life with Ore Deposits on Earth. Over 700 delegates from >50 countries
attended this meeting in Glasgow, 2019. Societies like SGA, Mineral Deposits Studies Group
(MDSG) - GSL and Applied Mineralogy Group provide platforms to help develop networks and
partnerships for initiatives like CuBES (NERC grant, above) and networking opportunities for ECSRs,
PDRAs/PGRs.

(4) Our research leaders have shaped the Scottish funding pools, SAGES and MASTS (e.g., Hoey
SAGES Director 2011-2015; Lee and Stuart on Executive Committee 2017-present), which have
supported our ECSRs through travel and workshop grants. Our local Conference and
Research/Impact Enabling fund (Section 2.2) provides support for travel to initiate and sustain
academic or industrial collaborations, seed funding for pilot projects, and networking and knowledge
exchange for impact-generating activities. This scheme has enabled our ECSRs to maintain and
build collaborations internationally.

 Supporting International Collaborations:
 Hallis received funding in 2016 to continue and build collaborations in Hawaii and Washington
 DC, resulting in ion-microprobe and Raman spectral datasets that have been published in Science
 and in Meteoritics and Planetary Science. The collaboration with the Smithsonian Museum in
 Washington DC has enabled Hallis to become a team member on the Raman Laser Spectrometer
 onboard the ExoMars Rosalind Franklin rover, which was due to launch for Mars in July 2020
 (postponed to 2022).

4.2 Evidence and support for relationships with key research users

Our move toward more challenge-led research has enhanced our partner-base of governmental
organisations, charities and industries and is evidenced by the increase from 38% (£7.1M of £18.8,
REF2014) to 46% (£11.1M of £23.9M, REF2021) of the Unit’s income (e.g., Scottish Government,
Scottish Funding Council, Scottish Natural Heritage, Historic Environment Scotland, Carnegie Trust,
Leverhulme Trust, Total, iCRAG, Arup, Statoil, Sixty-5 Technologies, Boliden Tara Mines, Scotgold
Resources SGZ, Assmang). This substantive and growing network enables the Unit to convene the
right partner collaborations to develop and respond to calls for evidence and funding and to create
solutions to seemingly intractable problems.

Our researchers engage with and develop relationships with key research users and beneficiaries
in government and local authorities by developing white papers and other forms of advice to planning
authorities (examples in Coastal ICS). Kamenos has held advisory roles for UK government (Defra
(2014-2017), Cefas (2017-2018)) and industry (e.g., Falmouth Harbour Authority, 2014-2016) giving

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
critical advice, providing insights into trajectories of marine biodiversity and services to prioritise
national marine management under the Defra Foresight Future for the Seas scheme.

    Example of Beneficiaries Beyond Academia (1):
    From 2013-2016, Renaud was a PI on a two-phase project, ‘Development of International Water
    Quality Guidelines for Ecosystems (IWQGES)’ funded by United Nations Environment
    Programme, which was a direct request by countries in the UN Environment Assembly (UNEA).
    Renaud led the projects that set targets for ecological status, suggestions for monitoring
    freshwater ecosystems and provided scientific background to underpin the recommendations. He
    oversaw the synthesis of “A framework for freshwater ecosystem management’, 1 an official body
    of work endorsed by UN member states. Additional requests by the UN for updated case studies
    show that this framework is continually referred to by member states and has ongoing relevance.

    Example of Beneficiaries Beyond Academia (2):
    Our work informs other agencies. For example, Kamenos was part of the core writing team for
    the ‘Assessment of carbon budgets and potential blue carbon stores in Scotland’s coastal and
    marine environment’ (2014) for Scottish Natural Heritage that identified overlooked carbon stores
    in the coastal environment. This report provided the basis for ongoing assessments of blue carbon
    as resources in Scotland’s inshore marine protected areas (SNH commissioned report No. 957,
    2017). It was also used as evidence in a strategic government document2, which identifies blue
    carbon as a focus for the Scottish Government through harnessing the potential of our natural
    assets and protecting our natural resources.

Partners call on our expertise, e.g., by BGS to foster formal early access sampling opportunities
regarding the £9M UKGEOS site in Glasgow (Boyce; Moreau; Bass) to ensure that a
comprehensive suite of pristine rock, fluid and microbiological samples were collected and analysed
rapidly during the initial drilling in 2019/2020, providing critical “t0” data to underpin future research
on this major platform.

Maintaining our networks and partnerships requires short-term                    research    leave   and
teaching/administration cover, to devote time to these activities.

    Supporting Urgent Research:
    In spring of 2017, Hurst was relieved of teaching duties to carry out research on a NERC urgency
    grant. Enabled by MASTS research pool, he spent 10-weeks in New Zealand mapping and
    modelling seismic hazards along marine terraces. This resulted in two subsequent facilities grants
    with Australia’s Nuclear Science and Technology Organisation (ANSTO, ~£40k), project
    partnership on a $1M Marsden Grant, and co-supervision of 4 PGRs, one based at the UofG.

4.3 Engagement with the Public and Diverse Communities

It is critical to engage with diverse communities through research. Our contribution to the UK and
international research base is substantial and our research contributes to a rich range of public
engagement events, such as:
     • Exhibitions: Royal Society Summer Exhibition in 2016 – ‘Storing Sky as Stone’
     • Collaboration with Glasgow Science Centre: planetarium talks, chair panels on Scotland’s
          role in space, provide hands-on activities with meteorites, ‘design your own lunar lander’ as
          part of the Apollo Landing Party
     • Collaboration with Local Schools (100s of secondary/primary students): Our strong link with
          Calderglen High, East Kilbride, received a HMI evaluation of “excellent” and has been chosen
          by Education Scotland as an exemplar for the “Journey to Excellence” professional
          development resource. Stirling High School workshops on meteorites and planetary science,
          St. John Ogilvie High School, STEM in the Gorbals, Careers Launch for space careers

1
 www.unenvironment.org/resources/publication/framework-freshwater-ecosystem-management
2
 https://www.gov.scot/publications/nation-ambition-governments-programme-scotland-2017-
18/pages/8/
                                                                                                 Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Edinburgh for high school students, career stories with Gordonstoun Secondary and “Bang
       goes the Borders” geological outreach events in Melrose.
   •   Providing context to Community Groups on climate change: Toney interviewed by
       Orchardhill Parish Church Minister, Grant Barclay, on why climate change is still relevant
       given Covid-19 to > 250 members virtually (2020).
   •   Scotland’s first ‘Girls into Geoscience’ (GiG, August 2019): Owen led the GiG Team,
       including 4 PhD students, 1 post-doc, 2 professional members of staff, Hallis, Thomas,
       Naylor, and Toney. The GiG event was attended by 25 school pupils from Scottish locations
       (Aberdeen to Ayr) and as far south as Buxton, England. Teachers and representatives from
       the Highlands and Islands Enterprise also attended. The day showcased talks by Jessica
       Smith (Atkins Global), Anna Hicks (BGS) and Amy Gilligan (University Aberdeen) who shared
       personal journeys and passion for geoscience, followed by hands-on laboratory sessions.
   •   Strategic partnerships: CfSS, SEPA, the Herald and the Global Footprint Network partnered
       to raise awareness of Earth Overshoot Day (2020) through two international panels (including
       Toney) with > 500 online attendees and a full-page op-ed piece in the Herald.
   •   The Pint of Science: PGRs and PDRAs organize the Glasgow Pint of Science since in 2015.
       Each year talks have been given by at least two PGRs (Holdsworth, Hollinsworth, McCahill,
       O’Brien, Pickergill, Simpson, Young, Wanmer), post-docs (Cohen, Fitzer, Plancq,
       Schoenrock) and research staff (Balke, Cusack, Daly, Hallis, Hansom, MacDonald,
       Phoenix, Toney). Pickersgill is the Chapter Manager of the Pint of Science for Scotland.
   •   Invited Panel Member (Toney), the Just Festival, Edinburgh (2016): “Climate Change: On
       the Edge of the Earth" exploring if the Paris Agreement will alter behaviour and carbon
       dioxide emissions. Addressing what is being done to help vulnerable people of the world
       respond to these threats and whether disaster can be avoided.

4.4 The Unit’s contribution to sustainability of the discipline

Geology and the broader geosciences are challenged to remain relevant to and for society as we
transition towards a sustainable future. Our research is changing to meet the needs of external
partners, societal challenges, and funding priorities. We protect the legacy of geosciences through
research-led teaching, where we are consciously equipping our students with ethical and critical
skills to apply their knowledge sustainably. For instance, Economic Minerals places emphasis on
sustainable practices and Basins and Reservoirs shifts primary focus away from fossil fuel
exploration to carbon storage and geothermal applications.

The Unit is integral to agenda-setting in the development of NERC Highlight Topics (Waldron) and
UKRI Research Programmes. The Unit plays leading roles in shaping national research agendas
(e.g., Boyce Chaired Expert Panel and was on Executive Board of the >£15M SoS Minerals NERC
Programme with EPSRC). We steer funding allocated in national and international programmes,
e.g., NASA’s Emerging Worlds (Hallis, Daly, Lee); the CFDDP Campi Flegrei feasibility/risk of deep
drilling (Mark); Swiss, Dutch, Indonesian, Austrian and Vietnamese funding councils (Renaud);
Chinese, Norwegian, US and Canadian Research Council panels (Boyce, Ellam, Stuart); Carnegie
Trust for Universities of Scotland (Stuart). Researchers regularly contribute on NERC panels (Balke,
Barfod, Boyce, Fabel, Kamenos, Mark, McGill, Newton, Stuart, Toney, Waldron). We play key
roles in determining future environmental agendas through membership and chairing of
governmental panels (e.g., Stuart, Waldron, Scottish Government Independent Expert Panel on
Unconventional Gas; Ascough, Environmental Protection Scotland Air Quality Expert Advisory
Group; Mark, NERC NEIF Strategy Board).

Our researchers are mindfully leading and engaging to keep our science relevant given changing
national and international agendas:
    • Student-led research projects gather data on mental health and resilience implications of
       recent UK floods (Thomas).
    • Williams conducts research on river restoration via a Royal Academy of Engineering
       Industrial Secondment, produced a decision-making tool regarding pipelines, and has a
       follow-on PhD project with SEPA.
    • Our researchers have risen to the climate emergency challenge through improving

                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       understanding of coastal erosion and hazards through Dynamic Coasts (Coastal ICS),
       MacDonald’s research into socio-environmental legacies of steel slag in Scottish
       communities, Balke, Bass and Renaud’s research in developing delta-level interventions to
       respond to and mitigate against foreseeable coastal system tipping points.
   •   Our researchers play lead roles in larger interdisciplinary initiatives, Toney is a Key Member
       of PAGES Working Group 2019, ACME: “Arctic cryosphere change and coastal marine
       ecosystems”.
   •   We play key roles on the UGUK Executive Committee (Owen – Early Career Representative)
       and on the Pre-University Recruitment and Awareness Working Group (Owen) and
       Influencing Policy and Policymakers Working Group (Toney) tasked with safe-guarding the
       future of geosciences.
   •   Boyce is collaborating on UKRI-funded research into new, sustainable resources of Cu to
       meet the demands of the electrification of the UK transport fleet by 2035.
   •   Stuart leads research into smarter exploration tools, to reduce the environmental footprint of
       exploration drilling, to find new helium deposits and sits on AAPG Global Helium Resources
       committee.
   •   Together with partners in UofG Engineering, Boyce and Moreau are shaping efforts to
       ensure mine-water geothermal energy plays a key role in ensuring that the UK meets its
       carbon neutrality targets by 2050.

4.5 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base

Our researchers hold key positions on decision-making prize allocation panels, e.g., BSG Awards
(Owen); C.C. Patterson Award Committee - International Geochemical Society (2019-2021, Toney);
Goldschmidt Medals Nomination Committee (2018-2020, Moreau); Lindgren Award for Society of
Economic Geologists (2015-2017, 2017 Chair, Boyce); SEPM Nominating committee (Owen, 2018).

We are encouraged by the indicators of esteem that show recognition of our ECSRs’ contributions
to the discipline. These demonstrate that the strategy to recruit outstanding ECSRs is recognised
beyond our Unit. Over the next 5-years, we will continue to use this approach as the age
demographics at SUERC proffer new ECSR recruitment opportunities.
    • EGU 2020 Outstanding Early Career Scientist Award, Geodynamics Division. Keller
    • Meteoritical Society Nier Prize 2018. Outstanding research in meteoritics and closely allied
        fields by young scientists. Hallis
    • Lyell Fund Award 2018. GSL - early career geoscientists who have made excellent
        contributions to applied research in the UK and internationally. Owen
    • President’s Medal 2017. GSL - early career geoscientists who show significant early promise
        and have potential to be future leaders in their fields. Hurst
    • European Microbeam Analysis Society 2017. Young Researcher Award. Einsle
    • Roland Goldring Award 2016. British Sedimentology Research Group noteworthy published
        research in sedimentology for an ECR. Owen




                                                                                            Page 20
