Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Royal College of Art
 Unit of Assessment:
 32 Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 The Royal College of Art leads research across the visual creative disciplines, collaborating with
 science, technology, engineering and other disciplines to engage with communities and
 audiences, and to address national and international priorities. Since 2014, the College has
 continued to expand its world-leading specialist research activities and to deliver impact for
 global business and industry as well as for public and community partners. In addition to
 increasing research and impact capacity and capability, it has put in place an integrated
 infrastructure to support excellence across research, knowledge exchange, innovation and
 enterprise, executive education, and postgraduate research degrees, and to deliver the
 ambitions of the RCA Strategic Plan 2016-2021. Research income over this REF period has
 more than doubled since the previous REF; the number of doctoral degrees awarded has
 similarly increased substantially, as has our supervisory capacity; and we are submitting 100%
 of our eligible staff to REF2021.

 The RCA’s Research, Knowledge Exchange & Innovation (RKEI) Strategy 2016-21 set out our
 ambitions to provide an outstanding research and innovation environment that delivers research
 excellence, supports the career development of staff and research students, and makes a
 difference in the world by sharing its research and collaborating with academic, business,
 community and creative and cultural partners worldwide. Specific targets in the Strategy, relating
 to increasing research and knowledge exchange income, establishing an income-generating
 executive education programme, establishing new interdisciplinary research centres,
 establishing a new MRes degree, enhancing the quality of doctoral training, and securing
 increased investment for InnovationRCA’s start-up programme, have all been achieved,
 indicating the quality and scale of developments in RCA research over this period.

 Since REF2014:

    ●   our total research income has increased to £20.5m (2014-20) from £8.7m (2008-13)
    ●   the value of research grants and contracts awarded exceeds £28m (2014-20)
    ●   3 new industry-facing, interdisciplinary research centres have been established, securing
        UKRI, industry and philanthropic funding of over £10m
    ●   doctoral degrees awarded have increased to 170 (2014-20) from 57 (2008-13)
    ●   over 80 AHRC doctoral studentships and 30 collaborative doctoral awards have been
        secured
    ●   the ratio of academic staff to PhD students supervised is 1:2.88
    ●   the average doctoral completion rate is 3.92 years.

 Structure, themes, objectives
 Research takes place across the College’s four Schools: Architecture; Arts & Humanities;
 Communication; Design, and across its four research centres: the Helen Hamlyn Centre for
 Design; the Intelligent Mobility Design Centre; the Materials Science Research Centre; and the
 Computer Science Research Centre and Robotics Lab. The College’s commitment to
 interdisciplinary research now integrates into its core art and design disciplines expertise from
 fields as diverse as anthropology, artificial intelligence, material sciences and mixed realities.
 This has been supported through the appointment of staff from science, technology and
 engineering backgrounds, including Asadipour (computer science), Ozden Yenigun (material
 science and nanoengineering), Robertson (smart materials for textiles) and Sareh (robotics).
 Embedding this knowledge from across disciplines within RCA research across the Schools and
 research centres equips us to address the major global issues of the 21st century, mapping our




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research onto the UK industrial strategy grand challenges and the UN sustainable development
 goals.

 Research in the Schools encompasses creative and critical practice, human experience, global
 challenges, technological change, social justice, political and environmental change, and public
 and community engagement. All Schools explore these broad themes through School-specific
 research groups and clusters, which are used to organise and connect not just staff research,
 but also research student forums and taught MA student clusters.

 Research in the School of Architecture, led by the Dean (Lahoud), addresses contemporary
 social and spatial design challenges, combining innovative practice with practice-led and
 interdisciplinary design research to deliver tangible social impact. Research is organised around
 the following themes: Architecture and Social Movements (Kaasa, Lahoud, Burns, Pereira,
 Loewenson); Climate Justice (Lahoud, Pereira, Goodbun, Schwabe, Fernandez Pascual);
 Intergenerational Cities (Kaasa, Lopez, Jacoby); and Institutional Forms and Practices
 (Hughes, Campbell, Jacoby, Brooker, Weizman, Giudici). The School established a
 Laboratory for Design & Machine Learning (Lahoud, Jacoby) in 2018, following a £1m private
 gift. The lab conducts interdisciplinary research into automation in construction and building
 processes, exploring machine learning applications in housing design and creating a visual and
 statistical database of housing in London, in collaboration with the RCA’s Academic Leads in
 Computer Science and Robotics.

 For the School of Arts & Humanities, research themes led by the Dean (Neil) provide a forum
 connecting staff research with research student clusters and MA student groups. They also
 provide a means of working with colleagues across the institution and beyond in areas of mutual
 interest, including ethics, interdisciplinarity, including with scientific research, new technologies,
 materials and materiality, social inequalities, decolonisation and climate change. The organising
 themes are: Art, Artificial and Distributed Intelligence (Brown, Duffau, Ferguson, Golding);
 Feminisms, Materialities, Legacies (Blackshaw, Fortnum, Smith); Health, Disorder and Care
 (Baseman, Blackshaw); Representation, Citizenry and the Public Sphere (Ash, Berry, Dillon,
 Jordan, Kennard, Kollectiv, Teasley, Thomasson); Critical ecology, climate crisis and non-
 human sentience (Boyd, Kennard, O’Reilly, Richon, Teasley); New Writing Forms (Faust,
 Fortnum, Thomasson); Critical Pedagogies (Cranfield, Large, Richon, Suterwalla, Walsh);
 and Materials & Materiality (Aylieff, Brown, Oakley).

 In the School of Communication, the Dean (Ramanathan) led a shift in emphasis from individual
 practice to research and collaboration that interrogates conventional approaches to the field (e.g.
 in graphic design). The focus is on the social and political implications of communication and
 communication technologies, on connecting research with issues of community, identity and
 intercultural cooperation, and with radical forms of collective, open and community learning,
 working critically with industry, government and NGOs, researching with, not for, partners
 (Buchan, Dare, Lewis, Ramanathan, Simmons, Waller, Yamada Rice).

 The Dean of the School of Design (Anderson) developed a new strategy for design research,
 supported by new appointments, to respond to rapidly changing international needs, challenges
 and opportunities. This includes enhancing STEM capacity, particularly in robotics (Sareh),
 materials science (Ozden Yenigun, Robertson) and computer science (Ahmed-Kristensen),
 and expanding research in design for services (including service design: De Leon, Sun,
 Grinyer), systems (e.g. healthcare: Toomey) and strategies (e.g. design for safety: Anderson,
 Hall, Ferrarello). This strategy is underpinned by a commitment to design’s role in supporting
 diverse cultural values and caring for the future of society and the planet, where ethics are
 fundamental, not just an issue of compliance. This approach informs research with significant
 impact such as the citizen science My Naturewatch project (Phillips), in collaboration with
 Goldsmiths University and the BBC, and the RCA’s collaboration with science partners at the
 universities of Leeds and Huddersfield through the AHRC-funded Future Fashion Factory project
 (Postlethwaite).



                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Helen Hamlyn Centre for Design (HHCD), the RCA’s longest-established research centre,
 has refreshed its own strategy to consolidate its research and impact strengths in inclusive
 design for healthcare (West) and ageing (McGinley), and inclusive design for social impact
 (Bichard, Ramster, Gaudion) and business impact (Myerson, Gheerawo, Ivanova). In 2019 it
 was successfully awarded £5m funding from the Research England Development Fund to
 establish the Design Age Institute (DAI), a design-for-ageing network that stimulates
 opportunities for design-led innovation among university researchers, small and medium-sized
 enterprises (SMEs) and larger companies across the UK. The DAI addresses the Government’s
 Grand Challenge on Ageing, positioning the UK as a leading market for aspirational products
 and services that support healthy ageing, and moving away from medical products and services
 that are provided only at the point of crisis. HHCD staff (Fusari) continue to work as part of the
 HELIX Centre for innovation in healthcare alongside staff from Imperial College London’s
 Institute of Global Healthcare Innovation.

 Interdisciplinary research
 As part of the RCA’s commitment to interdisciplinary research with impact in the current REF
 period, three new industry-facing research centres have been established:

    ●   the Intelligent Mobility Design Centre (IMDC), led by Harrow, established in 2016 with
        initial funding from Hyundai-Kia, and now from collaborations with Shanghai Automotive
        (SAIC), Ford, Bentley and other industry partners;
    ●   the Materials Science Research Centre (MSRC), led by Baurley, established in 2017
        with initial funding from the Burberry Foundation, and now from major funding from UKRI
        (e.g. the EPSRC Circular Economy Centres scheme), and with strong partnerships with
        science and engineering research faculties led by three visiting professors;
    ●   the Computer Science Research Centre (CSRC), established in 2019, with the
        appointment of Asadipour as Academic Lead in Computer Science, working closely with
        the Academic Lead in Robotics, Sareh, who joined us from Imperial College in 2017.

 The MSRC (Baurley, Petreca, Ribul) forms part of the RCA’s ‘STEM to STEAM’ strategy,
 collaborating with science and engineering faculties (Cambridge, York, Leeds, UCL), and using
 design-led approaches to develop human-centred solutions to address the challenges of
 environmental sustainability and human wellbeing. The mainstay of its STEAM methodological
 approach benefits from both designer and scientific modes of enquiry, by integrating scientific
 methods into the design process, as well as design methods into science. This approach is
 enabled by the research team who are hybrids – they have design backgrounds but have
 acquired scientific knowledge through working in science labs and faculties. It has been awarded
 funding from science research councils (e.g. BBSRC) and interdisciplinary funding (e.g. EPSRC
 Digital Economy programme), and was awarded UKRI Circular Economy Centres funding of
 £5.4m in 2020 to establish the Textiles Circularity Centre at the RCA.

 Building on the College’s strengths in automotive design, the IMDC (Harrow, Diels, Mausbach,
 Wu) combines design research expertise with technology and a people-centred approach to
 explore, prototype and evaluate the future of mobility from a social, environmental and economic
 perspective. Its first innovation lab was supported by a partnership with Hyundai-Kia, and its
 work is organised around three studio: the Automotive Transitions studio, which explores the
 shifts in the industry, a new focus on sustainability, and connections with material culture,
 fashion and aspirations; the Humanising Technology studio, which explores how emerging
 technologies can transform mobility experiences and services, and how creative and human-
 centre approaches can make these accessible and enjoyable; and the People and Places
 studio, which explores the relationships between society, place and transport systems for
 sustainable future products, services and experiences.

 The CSRC (Asadipour) explores the interface between art, design and computer science, with
 interdisciplinary research in intelligent human-computer interaction in areas including Computer




                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Graphics and Visualisations, Smart and Interactive Technologies, Artificial Intelligence, and
 Information Systems.

 The College’s RKEI strategy supports staff to work together across the institution to connect
 research on related topics. Internal research funding is used to stimulate this, for example
 supporting cross-College symposiums that bring together staff working in cognate areas, some
 of which go on to bid successfully for external research funding to develop projects further. An
 example is the IMDC-led cross-College ‘Transformations’ symposium (2019), which used
 internal research funding to bring together researchers from across the RCA around three
 themes, Transforming Cities and Society, Transforming Creativity and Practice, and
 Transforming Mobility and Technology. Externally funded projects that operated College-wide
 include the £8m GATEway (Greenwich Automated Transport Environment) project, funded by
 InnovateUK, which involved IMDC and HHCD staff and others in collaboration with partners
 including the Transport Research Laboratory and SMEs; and a cross-College collaboration on
 the British Council’s Crafting Futures network, as part of the College’s Global Challenges
 Research Fund strategy, supporting craftspeople in Asia through research, collaboration and
 education. Staff from all Schools and research centres have also developed a major
 collaboration with Hong Kong Polytechnic University to establish the world’s first AI-Design Lab
 (see section 3).

 Collaboration and impact
 The RCA’s research culture is distinctive because it is informed by a specialist environment,
 practice-led approaches and close collaboration not only across the RCA schools and research
 centres but also with external partners, in the UK and internationally, whether other HEIs or
 those who use our research and benefit from its impacts. As our impact case studies
 demonstrate, these include businesses and industry (Myerson; Simmons, Hall and Triggs),
 policy-makers, governments, public sector bodies, charities and NGOs (Myerson, West,
 Phillips), national museums, galleries and cultural organisations, and community groups and
 sectors of society (Kennard, Shani, Watson, Ramanathan).

 The RCA’s high-quality, research-intensive environment attracts interest from global businesses
 and other organisations keen to collaborate with academic staff and postgraduate students,
 including British Airways, the BBC, Bentley, Burberry, Fujitsu, Huawei, Hyundai-Kia, Karsan,
 Lloyds Register, Microsoft Research, the NHS, Royal Crown Derby, Shanghai Automotive
 (SAIC), and Tata Consultancy Services. Our unique position as a postgraduate-only institution
 ensures that the whole environment is research-focussed, with students and staff benefitting
 from the development of new knowledge at the forefront of art and design disciplines.

 The RCA’s research expertise in the visual and creative arts, design and innovation, technology
 and materials, and critical thinking and cultural interpretation generates significant impact and
 benefit, whether economic, social or cultural. Our research leads to excellence in teaching and
 achieves impact through its application in many sectors of society, business, industry and public
 life, making a positive difference to lives by bringing about benefits to the economy, society,
 culture, health and wellbeing, and quality of life. As artists, designers, curators, critical thinkers
 and historians, RCA researchers have extensive experience of collaborating and engaging with
 audiences, users and partners in projects as an integral part of their research. We have provided
 training to staff at different research career stages in planning routes to impact and planning for
 impact evidence as well as in public engagement in research, and Research & Knowledge
 Exchange (RKE) Office staff have delivered drop-in sessions on research bid writing, REF
 preparation, and working with partner organisations.

 Since the last REF the RCA has seen a number of changes which have supported and
 developed its research environment. The construction of a new research and innovation hub as
 part of the expansion to the Battersea site, funded by HM Treasury in 2016, is now well under
 way, with the building due to open in 2021/22. The new facilities will accommodate state-of-the-
 art studios and labs for our research and innovation centres, including a new visualisation lab
 and increased space for start-up and spin-out incubation, as well as enabling an increase in MA

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 student numbers. This new space will become the focal point for our research and innovation
 activity in the next REF period, providing lab space for interdisciplinary research across art,
 design, materials science, computer science, AI and robotics, and open spaces in which
 colleagues can work in collaboration with each other and with project partners from business
 and industry as well as from community groups. The College’s work with local businesses and
 community groups will also be a focal point for activity across our London campuses in
 Kensington and White City as well as in Battersea, and our commitment to art and design
 research that is undertaken with people is a central part of our commitment to supporting
 business and communities to recover and become stronger during the 2020s.

 Enterprise and IP
 InnovationRCA (established 2004) supports RCA students, alumni and staff to commercialise
 their ideas and build successful businesses. Its portfolio of design-led start-ups and spin-outs
 covers sectors ranging from agri tech, med tech, clean tech and construction to fashion,
 jewellery and interiors. Companies selected to join the incubator and accelerator programmes
 benefit from access to office and workshop facilities, funding, Intellectual Property advice and
 support, and expert coaching and business mentoring built on InnovationRCA’s unique design-
 led, user-centred ethos and methodologies. Assessed by McKinsey & Co as a ‘world-class
 spinout incubator and an inspirational organisation acting as a significant driver of
 entrepreneurial growth, delivering impressive results’ (McKinsey Internal Review for the RCA,
 2017), InnovationRCA won the ‘Accelerator of the Year 2019’ award given by the UK Business
 Angels Association, in recognition of its outstanding incubation track record. 71% of
 InnovationRCA start-ups are still in operation after five years (the UK average was c.40% in
 2019).

 InnovationRCA operates its own angel investor network, AngelClubRCA, and has partnered with
 a venture capital company, Venrex Investment Management, to provide increased access to
 private funding for RCA start-ups. It also provides short courses and executive training
 programmes for entrepreneurs, start-ups, businesses and other organisations seeking to
 promote and support innovation and entrepreneurship worldwide.

 The RCA has also explored research-led entrepreneurial innovation through the Research
 England funded MedTech SuperConnector, a £6m accelerator programme led by Imperial
 College London and a consortium of London institutions including the Francis Crick Institute.
 Other Knowledge Exchange developments in this period include: realigning MA studio projects
 as consultancy projects, appropriately priced to cover full economic costs and generate a
 surplus where possible; developing new, and scaling up existing, business and industry
 partnerships with major global corporates; establishing a successful executive education
 programme that combines open short courses and masterclasses with custom programmes
 delivered in London, internationally and virtually, which has exceeded financial targets. Recent
 clients for these short courses include the European Broadcasting Union, Fujitsu,
 GlaxoSmithKline, Hong Kong Civil Service Bureau, London & Partners, JP Morgan, PwC,
 Samsung, Singapore Airlines, Sony, Statoil and Visa.

 Research-led postgraduate teaching
 Over the course of the current REF period the RCA has enhanced and expanded its
 postgraduate research environment in response to the changing external context, ensuring that
 high-quality and broad training and development opportunities are available to equip our
 research students to progress to a successful academic research career or a variety of other
 professional roles.

 A new interdisciplinary RCA MRes programme was launched in 2016, and has since doubled in
 student numbers and received excellent external examiner feedback. MRes graduates progress
 successfully into funded doctoral research and into professional posts in the creative industries
 and beyond. An MRes in Healthcare & Design was also launched in 2016; a joint degree with




                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Imperial College London, this programme has developed from the RCA-Imperial HELIX Centre
 for design-led healthcare innovation.

 Master’s-level teaching at the RCA is informed by the research undertaken across the College,
 with elective units offering a flexible and agile way to incorporate new directions in staff research
 directly into student-facing experience. Design MA programmes combine design research with
 industry-facing studio projects that provide students with valuable experience of live projects:
 examples include the Fashion MA programme’s studio projects with companies including IFF,
 Timberland, Microsoft and Porsche, the latter run jointly with the Intelligent Mobility MA
 programme. The School of Communication’s annual MA graduate exhibition has evolved to
 incorporate the School’s research values of public engagement, discourse and access and
 includes podcasts, telecasts, broadcasts and embedded community outputs.

 Arts & Humanities collaborations with external partners take place through collaborative doctoral
 awards (e.g. with Tate; Gasworks) and graduate projects (Awami Art Collective, Lahore,
 Pakistan; Beaconsfield, Delfina Foundation, Design Museum, Furtherfield, Gasworks, Lux,
 Stanhope, Team London Bridge, The Photographers’ Gallery, Pump House Gallery, Nottingham
 Contemporary, and Margate Open School East), as well as through funded research projects. In
 2019 the RCA, the Showroom gallery and Tate Britain partnered to convene a creative
 workshop, ‘This Is No longer That Place: A Public Discussion’, as part of the EU-funded 4Cs
 (From Conflict to Conviviality through Creativity and Culture) project (Crimmin). Students from
 the RCA’s Curating Contemporary Art programme were involved in the development of the
 workshop’s content.

 A number of new MA courses have been introduced during the REF period that draw directly on
 new RCA research expertise, including:

    ●   Intelligent Mobility, which has developed from the RCA’s world-renowned Vehicle Design
        MA and draws on the research of the Intelligent Mobility Design Centre to train the next
        generation of innovative designers able to influence and disrupt the rapidly evolving
        automotive and transport industries
    ●   Information Experience Design and Digital Direction, both developing highly skilled
        graduates for the new creative economy, with Digital Direction combining training in script
        writing, production design, direction, filming and sound recording with coding and
        programming, VR and AR, 360 video editing, interactive design and AI.
    ●   Environmental Architecture, exploring the future of landscapes, environments and
        ecosystems
    ●   City Design, harnessing social, technical and spatial innovations to generate new
        possibilities for our cities and urban living.

 Supporting excellent research
 The College’s RKEI activities are supported by a number of formal committees and less formal
 network structures. The Director of Research & Innovation is chair of the College’s RKEI
 Strategy Committee and Research Ethics Committee, both of which are accountable to the
 RCA’s Senate. The RKEI Strategy Committee itself is accountable for the work of a number of
 sub-committees and groups, including the RKEI Operations Committee, the REF Strategy
 Group, the Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF) Strategy Group, the Ethics Committee, and
 the Research Costing & Pricing Group. These committees and groups are all chaired by the
 Director of Research & Innovation, and their membership is drawn from across the academic
 staff in the schools and research centres and across the professional services staff. There is
 also a Postgraduate Research Leads group sharing good practice in doctoral training.

 Since 2015, the new RKE Office at the RCA has put in place a number of policies and processes
 to support academic staff to undertake high-quality research and impact activities, and to
 develop their research careers. These include:

    ●   Formalising an internal peer review policy and process

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ●   Introducing an updated research ethics policy, process and annual Research Integrity
        report
    ●   Introducing a costing and pricing policy and process
    ●   Introducing a research data management policy and training
    ●   Refreshing the Intellectual Property (IP) rights policy, ensuring it supports students and
        staff to develop innovative ideas and benefit from IP created
    ●   Becoming a signatory to the Vitae Researcher Development Concordat
    ●   Committing to the Research Integrity Concordat
    ●   Committing to the Knowledge Exchange Concordat

 The RKE Office has also established clear RKE data capture and reporting processes, to
 support the increase in income secured from research grants and contracts. RKE Office staff
 have good working relationships with UKRI, and regularly participate in consultations,
 roundtables and advisory groups relating to REF, KEF, university enterprise and other topics.
 The substantial increase in research income delivered over the current REF period has been
 supported by a combination of supporting more staff to submit bids that are appropriate in scale
 and scope to their career stage; preparing high-quality bids to increase chances of success; and
 in particular, supporting cross-institutional collaboration to develop credible bids for large-scale
 grants (e.g. the two £5m UKRI grants awarded in 2019 and 2020).

 Research integrity and ethics
 The RCA is committed to maintaining the highest standards of professionalism, good conduct
 and integrity in research, not least because we believe this makes our research better. Research
 integrity is overseen by the College’s Research Ethics Committee, which operates two sub-
 committee dealing at a more granular level with ethical issues, training and approval processes
 for (a) taught postgraduate programmes and (b) research students and research activity. All
 research students and staff are supported by the College’s internal research funds to undertake
 Epigeum research ethics training, which ensures that those undertaking and supervising
 research are aware of good practice guidelines and expectations. The nature of our research
 themes and activities also reflects this commitment to an ethical approach.

 Open research, open access and research data management
 The RCA Library and RKE Office worked together to establish a new post of Scholarly
 Communications Librarian in 2019. Prior to this, the RKE Office managed open access
 compliance and the RCA Research Repository, but had identified the need for specialised
 knowledge and expert support in order to move beyond compliance into more proactive good
 practice in open access and research data management. This new post, which is unusual for a
 small, specialist institution, quickly proved successful in providing specialist support and
 expertise for research staff and students and has led to further development of the RCA
 Research Repository. All research staff are expected to deposit their research (textual, non-
 textual and practice-based) in the Repository, reflecting the wide range of research and output
 types in art and design. Postgraduate research students are expected to deposit open access
 versions of their PhD thesis. The College has developed Open Access policies and processes
 aligned with the wider scholarly communications landscape, and a Research Data Management
 policy and support service are being developed to support good practice in these areas.

 As the College moves into its next Strategic Plan period, we will continue to build on our
 reputation for research excellence and to deliver impact for our research partners and
 collaborations, locally, nationally and internationally, securing income to reinvest in further
 strategy development of the research environment. Our research centres will grow, generating
 new opportunities such as the Textiles Circularity Centre within our MSRC, and the Design Age
 Institute within the HHCD. Staff across the Schools and centres will continue working with
 partners in business and industry, policymaking and communities around the world, as well as
 with other researchers from other disciplines, and we will use our research in new doctorate
 routes for professionals and to inform teaching on existing and new MA programmes.

 2. People

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The RCA has invested heavily in further developing support for staff and students since 2014.
 This reflects the College’s strategic objectives to become more research intensive, to develop a
 consistently high-performance culture and environment that attracts and retains talented, diverse
 and ambitious staff, and to improve provision for the student experience of postgraduate
 research (PGR). The RCA is committed to creating an environment where differences are
 valued and respected and where innovation, creativity and diversity can flourish.

 Staffing Strategy
 In spring 2015/16, the College introduced the new Academic Employment Framework (AEF),
 which provides protected research time for tutors and senior tutors, and defines roles for all
 tutors and senior tutors in terms of research and teaching. The AEF’s protected research time
 replaces the RCA’s former system of research remission. The AEF aims to ensure that the
 academic workforce is recognised and rewarded through: transfer of academic staff on fixed-
 term contracts to permanent employment; guaranteed significant time for research; proportioning
 the amount of time spent on teaching activities to allow more effective planning; and providing
 the opportunity for an increased level of research time to early-career researchers (ECRs). Prior
 to the introduction of the AEF, 41% of academic staff were on fixed-term contracts; as of July
 2020, 4% of academic staff are on fixed-term contracts.

 Recruitment to tutor posts requires that there should either be evidence of, or clear potential to
 produce, high-quality research in line with the strategic priorities of the College, and attract
 ECRs, including staff joining the College from industry. Senior tutor posts require a proven
 record of producing high-quality research outputs, and providing a progression route for
 academic staff.

 As part of the AEF, a new probation and appraisal policy was introduced. All newly appointed
 academic staff have a two-year probation period, during which they are expected to achieve a
 recognised professional teaching accreditation appropriate to the job role, and/or, in the case of
 staff whose role will involve supervision of doctoral students, to have achieved a recognised
 research degree supervision qualification. In addition, new appointments are expected to
 develop and agree a 5-year research plan in consultation with their line manager or Dean,
 appropriate to their career level. ECRs on the research pathway can agree with their Dean an
 increased allowance for protected research time during their probation.

 Through the annual appraisal process, academic staff are supported to develop and agree
 personal research plans and objectives with their line manager alongside their performance
 review. This includes a review of research undertaken, outputs produced, external funding
 secured, and supervision of research students, as well as agreeing training and development
 needs which will support good research practice.

 The College offers formal recognition, through the Professorship and Readership Scheme, for
 sustained achievements in academic leadership, research and scholarship, and learning and
 teaching. This scheme provides published criteria for opportunities for career progression and
 recognition. In the period 2014–20, there were 17 applications for readerships, of which 14 were
 successful (a 75% increase of successful applications from the previous period: 10 female and 4
 male; 10 white, 2 did not declare, 1 Other Asian, 1 Asian or British Asian–Indian; 6 part-time and
 8 full-time) and 3 were unsuccessful or declined (1 female and 2 male; all where white; 2 full-
 time and 1 part-time). In this same period, there were 15 professorial applications, with 7
 successful/approved (an increase of 17% from the previous period: 2 female and 5 male; 5
 white, 1 Other Asian background, 1 did not declare; 2 full-time and 5 part-time) and 8
 unsuccessful/declined (3 female and 5 male; 5 white, 2 Asian or British-Asian and 1 did not
 declare; 5 full-time and 3 part-time; 1 unsuccessful professorial applicant was awarded a
 readership instead). Staff awarded a professorship include Aylieff (Ceramics), Bichard
 (Accessible Design), Brooker (Interior Design), Dillon (Creative Writing), Jacoby (Architecture
 and Urban Design), Kennard (Political Art) and Rowe (Metal Art and Design); staff awarded a
 readership include Boyd (Jewellery), Coutts (Fine Art), Crimmin (Art and Conflict), Dare (Digital

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Media), Dormor (Textile Practices), Hughes (Architecture), Oakley (Material Culture),
 Ramanathan (Intercultural Communication), Robins (Textiles), Sareh (Robotics and Design
 Intelligence), Satz (Fine Art: Sound and Moving Image), West (Healthcare Design) and Wu
 (Intelligent Mobility Design).

 Staff Development
 The RCA has invested in staff development in the period 2014-20, creating the new Talent &
 Organisational Development (TOD) Manager post in February 2020. This permanent post
 replaced the fixed-term Learning & Development Specialist role that was introduced in
 November 2017. Staff engagement and areas of focus for staff support and development are
 informed in part by the feedback gathered through all staff surveys (introduced in 2019). The HR
 budget for staff development also substantially increased in 2019/20. This has led to the
 introduction of the College’s new Staff Development Policy in early 2021, with a new Staff
 Development Strategy currently in development (to be published 2021). The new policy provides
 clarity to academic staff on the support available for research professional development.
 Coupled with the RCA’s commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers (signed in September 2020, with the action plan currently in development by a
 cross-College group of academic/research, HR and RKE Office staff), the College has greatly
 and visibly increased its support for research staff development.

 As noted above, the introduction of the AEF has meant that all academic staff, regardless of
 whether they are on a research or teaching pathway, have protected research time designated
 in their contracts. There are a number of opportunities for staff to access development and
 support for their research and professional development internally, on offer from both HR and
 the RKE Office. HR offers a variety of standard professional development and
 leadership/managerial courses to support staff as they progress in their careers (e.g., coaching
 skills, action learning), as well as more targeted development opportunities, such as the
 Advance HE Aurora Women’s Development Programme (6 academic women have
 participated/are participating; and annual Aurora engagement events have been held at the
 College for the past two years with high attendance from academic/ research staff). HR has also
 developed a new mentoring scheme for both academic/research and professional services staff,
 where mentors are trained and supported with ongoing development and digital resources. The
 current pool of mentors includes 15 academic/research mentors, which is expected to grow. In
 addition, all new Heads of Programme and Deans are supported by an internal academic
 mentor.

 The RKE Office offers research development training, including courses such as research-bid
 writing, European funding opportunities, tracking and evidencing impact, open-access and
 research-data management, developing a research profile, research supervision and viva
 chairing. The RKE Office funded academic and research staff to join the NCCPE (National Co-
 ordinating Centre for Public Engagement) Engage Researchers’ Academy residential workshops
 (14 RCA ECRs and MCRs each attended 3 two-day workshops) to develop their public
 engagement and impact knowledge and practice. The RKE Office also funded a series of cross-
 College research symposia (10 funded, covering topics such as Feminism and Materialities;
 Artificial Intelligence; Design for Active Engagement; Intelligent Solutions: Accessibility,
 Connectivity and Creativity; Sexuality, Power, Research from Analogue to Digital; and Politics of
 Sound), which sought to bring together researchers from across the RCA, including students, to
 explore their shared research interests. The RKE Office’s Executive Education team has also
 collaborated with HR to offer a place to an ECR Principal Investigator on a Design Thinking and
 Innovation training course as a pilot.

 The RKE Office also offers internal funding schemes, which aim to support academic/research
 staff to develop their networks and research activities. The Research Costs scheme offers up to
 £1k to cover the costs of conference attendance, short-term technical assistance or some
 publishing costs. Staff can make two applications per year, although ECRs are allowed to make
 up to three requests per year (143 awards were made over the period, totalling £100k). The
 Research & Knowledge Exchange Development Fund is a peer-reviewed scheme that offers up

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to £10k for seed funding or proof of concept to academic/research staff-led projects, with the
 expectation of leading on to major external funding proposals to funding bodies or industry
 partners (58 awards totalling £123k, including contributing £10k towards Shani’s Turner Prize-
 winning DC Productions project). The Research Investment Fund offers up to £25k for large-
 scale collaborative activity, which will lead to a major step-change for the College’s research
 activity and/or to major external funding proposals (7 awards were made totalling £97k, including
 funding the kit-out of the new Robotics Lab, and strategic investment in the new MSRC, both of
 which contributed to securing substantial external funding from EPSRC). These as well as other
 externally funded projects have provided Schools and research centres with the opportunity to
 offer research-project mentoring and support to ECRs (e.g., the British Council and RCA joint-
 funded Crafting Futures Central Asia project has involved ECRs to build their research-project
 experience; x2 AHRC-funded Creative Economy Engagement Fellows; x1 AHRC-funded
 Innovation Placement).

 Research Students
 The College offers a highly concentrated, subject-specialist community of approximately 250
 PGR students, comprising 20% of the RCA’s student body. This number has risen from 181
 PGRs in 2013 (14% of the student body), in line with the College’s Strategic Plan. Out of 174
 staff who submitted to REF2021,129 are currently supervising PhD students, and as each
 student has at least 2 supervisors, the ratio of staff to PhD supervisions is 1:2.88. As of 2019/20,
 the average completion rate for PhD students is 3.92 years.

 The RCA has secured over 80 AHRC-funded studentship awards through the College’s
 membership of doctoral training partnerships and centres since 2014: LDoc (consortium led by
 the RCA, 2014–ongoing with 5 cohorts); TECHNE (consortium member, 2014–ongoing, 5
 cohorts); and LAHP (consortium member, 2109–ongoing with 5 cohorts; also offers collaborative
 doctoral awards with non-HEI partners). Through LAHP, the RCA has secured 11 studentships
 out of 90 per year and 4 collaborative doctoral awards (CDAs) out of 14 total since 2019,
 showing that the RCA is performing well above its size within a consortium of high-profile, large-
 scale London HEIs. The RCA has also secured over 30 AHRC Collaborative Doctoral
 Partnerships since 2014, working with cultural partners (e.g., Tate; V&A; Science Museum;
 British Postal Museum; and National Archives) and industry partners (e.g., TATA; The Birthrights
 Collection; AKTII; Ubisoft; Microsoft; British Antarctic Survey; and ARUP).

 Between 2014 and 2018, the College increased recruitment of research students in areas of
 strategic importance, aligned with the RCA’s research strengths and growing research centres.
 The College strategically secured funding and recruited doctoral students to the new research
 centres and Robotics Lab (e.g. £110k for MSRC), offering them the chance to undertake their
 studies immersed in a specialist research environment working in collaboration with industry.
 Funding was also secured from business and industry (e.g., Microsoft, Stavros Niarchos
 Foundation and Ted Powers Foundation £325k) to support doctoral students across the College
 in Schools and research centres.

 The environment for PGRs guarantees access to high-quality research supervision, to specialist
 workshops and facilities, as well as to a broad range of training covering subject-specific and
 generic research skills, KE training and career development. During the period 2014-2020, the
 College has established an enhanced PGR culture driven by the introduction of the new cross-
 College role of Head of Research Programmes, who is responsible for ensuring parity and
 consistency of provision, standards and opportunities for all research students across the
 College’s Schools and research centres.

 In order to support the growth in numbers and to further develop the College’s PGR culture, the
 proportion of academic staff supervising students has increased, and the new role of PGR Leads
 in each School and research centre has been established. Doctoral supervision has been
 professionalised, with regular training for new supervisors as well as refresher sessions for
 experienced supervisors, and with national standards applied to all aspects of supervisory
 practice. PGR Leads organise and collaborate with the PGR community on a range of activities

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and events, including reading groups, practice and theoretical workshops and platforms for peer
 exchange. PGR students are also offered the opportunity to engage with staff-led research
 projects and to design and deliver (working with their supervisors) executive education
 programmes to further build their experience and development (e.g. Contemporary Art summer
 school; Curating Art & Design summer school; and Designing Services and Products for AI
 modules).

 The RCA has continued its collaboration with the V&A on the History of Design PhD and MA
 programmes, with 4 V&A staff (Category C staff: Dr Marta Ajmar, Deputy Director V&A Research
 Institute; Dr James Ryan, Head of Programmes V&A/RCA; Dr Spike Sweeting, Tutor; Dr Simona
 Valeriani, Senior Tutor) co-supervising 8 PhD students (including AHRC CDA/CDP-funded
 students) and actively publishing research during the REF period.

 To further support excellence in academic and professional training for PGRs, in line with the
 Vitae Researcher Development Framework, the College-wide Doctoral Training Programme has
 been re-designed and expanded from the former first-year ‘research methods course’. The new
 RCA Doctoral Training Programme, introduced in 2018, is a flexible model delivered by 50 RCA
 academic staff and 40 visiting lecturers annually, which is relevant to all stages of the PhD
 lifecycle and builds on specialist training and supervision within Schools, research centres and
 specialist clusters. The first Student Research Biennale began development, planning and
 design during the REF period (formally launched in early 2021) to offer an intensive space for
 celebrating and making public the research being undertaken by the College-wide PGR cohort.

 The RCA also successfully launched the new College-wide, interdisciplinary Masters of
 Research (MRes) in 2016. The MRes has grown from an initial cohort of 15 students to 52, with
 graduates of the 1-year taught programme securing funded PhD placements at the RCA,
 Cambridge University and other international universities, as well as roles in policy and industry-
 based research posts internationally. This positions the programme as an important nexus of
 research for industry and the academy and addresses the particular need for research training
 for doctoral candidates in the sector.

 From 2021, the College will prioritise further embedding the strategic alignment of PGR students
 within RCA research themes, initiatives and funded projects, and expanding on existing external
 PGR funding in these areas, as well as developing new areas that align with national and EU
 themes and industry engagement. This will involve developing new centres for doctoral training
 in specialist areas of art, design and humanities that build on existing expertise, as well as
 expanding into new strategic areas, and developing sustainability strategies for both. The
 Professional Doctorate that is currently under development will provide a flexible, industry-
 focused route for a new type of PhD programme and career-development opportunity. The
 College will also work towards becoming a leader in ECR career development by creating further
 opportunities for postdoctoral researchers to contribute to major research projects.

 Equality & Diversity
 The RCA requires standard compliance training courses to be undertaken by all staff
 (Unconscious Bias, Diversity at Work), and Recruitment & Selection training is a requirement for
 all staff involved in recruitment and selection of either staff or students. More focused training,
 such as AdvanceHE’s REF-specific Equality & Diversity course, is offered to staff to raise
 awareness of the impacts beyond recruitment and selection. The College took part in a
 Bystander Intervention training pilot for both staff and students to raise awareness of sexual
 assault in June 2020 and has run training for Mental Health First Aiders. The College continues
 to explore the Athena Swan Charter and how the RCA can embed Athena Swan principles into
 working practices in preparation for its first submission to the Charter. The College’s HR systems
 have also now been set up to import data that allows HR to monitor activity levels and trends,
 especially in relation to EDI and promotion/career development.

 The RCA has a number of standard policies and tools in place to offer support to staff in a
 variety of areas, for example: career break policy that allows staff to leave employment without a

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 break in service in order to fulfil personal obligations or to engage in career development and
 formal training; flexible working arrangements; and maternity/paternity/shared parental leave for
 birth and adoptive parents. Schools and Research Centres provide personalised support to staff
 and research students (as well as the standard leave of absence for research students) who are
 part-time, have flexible working arrangements, and/or who have caring responsibilities or ill
 health to attend conferences and other research development opportunities, or who are
 returning from related periods of leave.

 As a small specialist art & design institution, the RCA has a significant number of staff and
 research students who have dyslexia, dyspraxia or other learning difficulties, as is common
 across the discipline. The College offers specialist dyslexia and dyspraxia screening, and advice
 and support for both students and staff as part of the larger Student Support team.
 Academic/research staff who require additional support to write research funding proposals,
 carry out research projects, or report on research activities can request funding from the RKE
 Office’s schemes above. Funds have been provided for external research bid writers and
 consultants for larger-scale proposals and for research associates to support internally funded
 research projects and external research and impact reporting. Schools and Research Centres
 provide local support for staff as needed.

 Likewise, as is common in art and design, the RCA has a relatively large percentage of part-time
 academic/research staff. As such, part-time staff are afforded the same support mechanisms to
 carry out and disseminate their research, with Schools and research centres ensuring part-time
 staff are supported to lead or act as co-investigators in research projects and to engage with
 internal research activities.

 With a relatively small pool of academic/research staff, many of whom are part-time, have a
 learning difficulty, or have other protected characteristics, it is ‘business-as-usual’ to provide
 support for all staff, taking into account any additional considerations that may be required.
 There is no differentiation in the RKE Office, for example, between who receives support for
 developing research and knowledge exchange proposals, who receives internal RKE funding, or
 who has access to training, advice and guidance on RKE matters. As such, the College’s
 approach to developing its REF2021 Code of Practice, as well as selecting outputs and impact
 case studies for submission, is informed by this approach. A range of support has been offered
 to all academic/research staff in selecting and preparing their outputs for selection and
 submission in order to account for different working patterns and needs (e.g. from the RKE
 Office as well as local support in Schools/Research Centres; 1:1 and small group support,
 workshops and training sessions). With regards to output selection, all staff were asked to
 submit their best quality output for assessment in internal informal and formal quality
 assessments and to submit any additional high-quality outputs for assessment if available, but
 with the basic requirement for all staff to submit one output. There was no requirement or
 expectation in the Code of Practice that staff would be required to submit more than one output
 based on their contracts/FTE. All staff were invited to submit research impacts for consideration
 in the impact stocktake, and selection of case studies to receive support was based on the
 significance and reach of the impact. As such, the College’s impact case study leads are from a
 range of FTE, gender and protected characteristics. All staff involved in making the final
 selection for the RCA’s submission were required to undertake REF-specific EDI training to
 support this process and highlight any areas of bias that may affect decisions, which was
 successful and well-received.

 The RCA’s Equality & Diversity and Anti-Bullying, Harassment and Victimisation Policies
 underpin the College’s core values: “The RCA is committed to creating an environment of mutual
 respect, where differences are valued and respected and where innovation, creativity and
 diversity can flourish. Positive working relationships – whether between staff and staff, staff and
 students, or students and students – are central to this. Mutual respect is facilitated by the
 promotion of values of dignity, courtesy and respect, alongside a zero tolerance of bullying and
 harassment.” In 2020, the College engaged an EDI consultant to highlight areas of training and
 development to undertake, which will form part of the new Staff Development Strategy. The

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 College has also taken steps towards becoming an anti-racist institution, engaging Amatey Doku
 to work with staff and students through 1:1 consultations and focus groups to discuss journeys
 and experiences within the College. Confidential, specialist counselling was put in place to
 protect the emotional safety of those staff and students who took part in these sessions.
 Amatey’s work will support the RCA’s objectives to: increase senior staff’s awareness and
 understanding of staff and students of colour from African, Caribbean, Asian, Middle Eastern,
 First Nations and Indigenous heritage backgrounds; to better inform the executive team and
 Council to take action towards becoming an anti-racist institution; and to set the new Head of
 Equity & Inclusion up for success (to be appointed in 2021). The College acknowledges these
 are only first steps in becoming an anti-racist institution, and the Head of Equity & Inclusion will
 continue the journey the RCA has begun with Amatey Doku’s work with staff and students.

 To support the health and wellbeing of staff, the College offers standard support mechanisms
 such as an employee assistance programme, mental resilience e-learning, and Mental Health
 First Aid and has an agreement with Imperial College to offer RCA staff occupational health
 services. Since the Covid-19 lockdown in March 2020, the College has increased its wellbeing
 support for staff and students, including: additional tools and guidance for working from home;
 additional training and information materials to support good mental health; and regular Covid-19
 HR updates which include links to mental health support and activities such as Mental Health
 Awareness Week.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The RCA’s vision for research over the current REF period has been to deliver a continuously
 improving research environment that produces excellent research, supports the career
 development of our academic staff and research students, collaborates with academic,
 business, cultural and community partners across the globe, and makes a difference to the world
 by communicating research findings effectively. In disciplinary terms, the College’s strategy
 focuses not only on achieving research excellence across art, design and architecture
 disciplines, but also developing interdisciplinary research strengths through collaborations with
 science, engineering, medicine and social science researchers, and through interdisciplinary
 research centres. The RCA has built a strong research culture, which is distinctive because it is
 informed by a specialist environment, practice-led approaches and close collaboration.

 This vision informs the College’s strategic priorities in terms of research activities, funding and
 collaborations. The RKEI 2016-21 strategy set out ambitious targets for research and knowledge
 exchange income, leading to a marked increase over the REF period. There has been a steady
 increase in income over the period through actively developing new partnerships alongside
 existing ones to expand the RCA’s network and funding sources, and through increasing
 research infrastructure and support. In the previous REF period, the College’s annual RKE
 income averaged at £1,745k per year across all funding sources; in the current period, the
 average annual RKE income has been £2,975k per year (totalling £20.8m over 7 years). In
 addition, the RCA has attracted over £4.3m in income through the delivery of research-informed
 bespoke and open executive education courses, and a further £2.3m from consultancy services.
 This averages at £170k/FTE of RKE income over the REF period, or £225k/FTE for RKE,
 executive education and consultancy income.

 The RCA’s established academic partnerships include those with our close neighbours, Imperial
 College London (joint MA and MRes programmes; jointly established Healthcare Innovation
 Exchange HELIX Centre) and the V&A (joint MA and PhD programmes), as well as leading
 institutions worldwide, such as Tsinghua University, Beijing, Nanyang Technical University,
 Singapore, Pratt Institute, New York, and Keio University, Tokyo (through our Global Innovation
 Design MA programme). Partnerships focusing on research and knowledge exchange have
 been developed with global partners, including Hong Kong Polytechnic University, with whom
 the RCA has been awarded substantial funding from the Hong Kong Government’s Innovation &
 Technology Commission to establish the world’s first AI-Design Lab. This collaboration will bring
 together design expertise with research in AI, robotics and machine learning to address

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developments in automation and customisation of products and services, in sectors ranging from
 healthcare and manufacturing to fashion and textile design. Industry and charity partners include
 Hyundai-Kia, Burberry, Lloyd’s Register Foundation, Karsan, Shanghai Automotive (SAIC), and
 Tata Consultancy Services.

 The RCA has been awarded over £28m in research grants and contracts between January
 2014 and December 2020, outperforming the previous REF period and contributing to a marked
 increase in RKE income. Major external research grants secured by the RCA in this REF period
 include: Design Age Institute (Myerson and Gheerawo; Research England Development Fund,
 £4.9m); Artificial Intelligence Design Laboratory (AI-Design Lab collaboration between the RCA
 and Hong Kong Polytechnic University; Hong Kong government-funded, c. £20m with c. £5m to
 RCA); Textiles Circularity Centre (Baurley PI; UKRI Interdisciplinary Circular Economy Centres,
 £5.4m); Citizen Nature Watch (Phillips PI, collaboration with Goldsmiths; EPSRC, £350k); Bio-
 manufacturing Textiles from Waste (Baurley CoI, collaboration with University of York; BBSRC,
 £150k to RCA); Marked (Baseman PI; Wellcome Trust, £200k); Getting a Grip: from the science
 of robotic attachment to innovation and deployment (Sareh; EPSRC Innovation Fellowship,
 £394k); Future Fashion Factory (Postlethwaite CoI, led by University of Leeds; AHRC Creative
 Industries Clusters, £460k to RCA); Nature’s Way: Co-Creating Methods for Innovating Nature-
 based Solutions for Public Health and Green Recovery in a Post-COVID World (Sun PI; UKRI
 Covid Response, £400k).

 The RCA developed its Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) Strategy in response to
 Research England’s quality-related (QR) GCRF allocation, and this has supported an increase in
 GCRF-related research activity and partnerships. A core feature of the RCA’s GCRF Strategy is
 its collaboration with the British Council as a member of the British Council’s Crafting Futures
 core stakeholder group. This engagement with British Council led to the successful and ongoing
 Crafting Futures Central Asia project (Ramanathan and Simmons) and partnership with
 Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan crafters and researchers (in collaboration with the University of
 Leicester). The College’s QR GCRF funding has also been used to fund collaborative work with
 Thammasat University in Thailand, focusing on Thai Textiles (Oakley); the Fair Luxury
 conference and workshop focusing on ethical sourcing in the jewellery industry (Oakley); a
 collaborative project addressing the effects of migration on settlement and urbanisation in
 Ethiopia and Uganda (Jacoby); and a collaborative project with Shanghai University exploring
 spatial design and well-being (Jacoby).

 As artists, designers, curators, critical thinkers and historians, RCA researchers have extensive
 experience of communicating their research and delivering impact beyond academia, engaging
 with and bringing benefits to audiences, partners and research users. Impact is very much built
 into the research process and is considered ‘business-as-usual’ at the RCA, rather than a
 separate process or activity to undertake after the research is complete. The RKE Office offered
 non-academic staff the opportunity to attend the NCCPE’s Engage Academy for professional
 services staff on a pilot basis, in order to provide training in supporting academic staff’s research
 and impact; the RCA Communications & Marketing team’s Community Engagement Manager,
 who provides support to academic staff running public events, undertook this training. Internal
 funding schemes (as described in Section 2) are available to academic staff to develop their
 research and impact, and RKE Office research development services provide support for
 external funding proposals. Impact support is an area the RCA plans to continue to develop over
 the next REF period, with more training and specialist support made available.

 The College’s investment in new research centres in this REF period also demonstrates its
 commitment to supporting and developing impactful research. The Helen Hamlyn Centre for
 Design has a long history of impactful research, focusing on healthcare, ageing, and social and
 business impact. With the introduction of three new research centres since 2014 (IMDC, MSRC
 and CSRC), as well as the new DAI associated with HHCD, a critical mass of high-impact
 interdisciplinary research is developing alongside research taking place in the Schools.

 Infrastructure and Facilities

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 RCA Technical Services revised their team structures and roles (and created new roles) during
 this REF period to better support both current and future research needs, e.g., the Senior
 Technical Instructor in Robotics & Computer Science was an entirely new position created to
 support future developments within the Robotics Lab. In line with College strategy, Technical
 Services has focused on the development of several key areas, culminating in the formation of
 the IMV (Intelligent Manufacturing & Visualisation) in 2017. IMV is a group of specialist,
 progressive technical areas with an agenda to build, year upon year, the facilities and technical
 knowledge required to support the new research centres, as well as individual research-project
 needs. Key areas of focus within this grouping are: XR (Extended Realities – VR, AR, MR);
 Creative Coding and Programming; Robotics & Computer Science; Materials Science – Textiles;
 and Intelligent Manufacturing.

 Investment in the new RCA Robotics Lab has supported the combination of creative techniques,
 mechanisms and functions from nature and art, and approaches from the experimental sciences,
 to develop new robotic technologies to enhance access, safety and performance in a wide range
 of industrial applications. The Robotics Lab and the Academic Lead cover a number of research
 spaces, including soft robotics, robot mobility, manipulation and attachment, and multi-modal
 sensing. Strategic internal investment in equipment for the lab and the Academic Lead post have
 led to InnovateUK-funded projects as well as an EPSRC Innovation Fellowship, which in turn
 have funded further research assistant posts for robotics. Other facilities established during this
 period include the 3D sound lab, the VR/AR/MR lab, and the Motion Capture studio.

 Since 2014, the Special Collections division of the RCA Library has continued to enhance the
 holdings in its specialist areas. Recent acquisitions include materials relating to projects and
 individuals from the College’s Department of Design Research, and a teaching collection of
 commissions from the career of graphic designer Ken Garland. In 2015, Special Collections
 assumed responsibility for the archive of the RCA’s Graphic Design programme, and around
 1,500 posters and 24 boxes of printed materials and other examples of student work were
 transferred to its care. The Colour Reference Library, a self-contained collection of over 1,600
 books, and one of the most comprehensive resources of its kind in the world, has continued to
 grow in scope and use and has supported numerous practice-led research projects and
 publications.

 In 2018, the RCA received a grant of £200,000 from the Foyle Foundation to fund refurbishment
 of the Special Collections reading room, an extensive preservation programme and mass
 digitisation. High-specification digitisation equipment, including an A0 scanner, was purchased,
 and the entirety of the RCA’s works on paper are now being scanned for delivery through a new
 public-facing image resource (launching 2021). The College’s historical images of student work
 are also being digitised for access through the same platform. To date, around 40,000 digital
 images of items in the RCA’s collections have been created for the project.

 The College has continued to invest in research support and development. In 2015, the new
 Director of Research & Innovation (Dr Emma Wakelin, formerly AHRC Associate Director of
 Programmes) joined the RCA to oversee RKEI strategy and development. The RKEI directorate
 encompasses the RKE Office, the College’s research centres (HHCD, DAI, MSRC, IMDC,
 CSRC, HELIX), and InnovationRCA, the RCA’s centre for enterprise, entrepreneurship,
 incubation and business support.

 The RKE Office has grown in order to support the College’s RKE strategy and increase its
 research and knowledge exchange activity and income. The structure includes a head of
 function for each of the core business areas: Research Development, Knowledge Exchange,
 Research Programmes, and Executive Education. Research and Knowledge Exchange is
 supported by Research & Knowledge Exchange Development Managers (2x new posts, 2017),
 the Post-Award Research Manager (new post, 2020), the Research Information Manager (new
 post, 2019), and a small administrative team. Research programmes, including externally funded
 doctoral training provision, are supported by a small team of administrators.



                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The RKE Office shares the Scholarly Communications Librarian post with the College Library.
 This post was introduced in 2019 and was developed in order to provide expert guidance and
 support to research staff and students in areas such as open access (OA) (including compliance
 with funder OA policies) and research-data management. Since joining the College, the
 Scholarly Communications Librarian has provided group and individual training and advocacy
 around OA to RCA research staff, worked to embed and promote OA best practice within the
 College’s research culture, and manages the RCA Research Repository and associated OA
 processes. Individual training and support have been delivered to RCA PGR students around
 OA and copyright in order to maximise access to, and the reusability of, RCA PhD theses. The
 PhD thesis deposit workflow has also been updated (including reducing the maximum embargo
 offered), and wider group training on OA for PhD students is being developed as part of the
 existing RCA Doctoral Training Programme.

 The Scholarly Communications Librarian, working with the Library Information Systems Manager
 (new post, 2019), manages the College’s EPrints Research Repository. The RCA repository
 platform is based on the open-source, open-standards EPrints digital repository and MEPrints
 extensions, with visualisation extensions devised by Visual Arts Data Service (VADS) KULTUR.
 The RKE Office, Library and IT services have further adapted the EPrints platform, design and
 interfaces for use by researchers, students and staff. The Pure research information system will
 be launched for use by staff and PGR students in late 2021 and will allow researchers to record
 details of their research outputs, projects, activities and awards. Pure will be integrated with the
 RCA Research Repository.

 During this REF period, the RCA has further invested in research support and development by
 procuring and beginning implementation of the Elsevier Pure research information system (due
 to be completed in 2021). Additional investment has also been made in the Unit4 finance system
 to integrate with Pure and better support research costing and pricing. As the College’s research
 and knowledge exchange portfolio continues to grow, the need for additional infrastructure and
 support for the entire research lifecycle has increased. Investment in RKE Office posts, including
 specialist posts (Post-Award Research Manager, Scholarly Communications Librarian), and
 systems (Pure), demonstrates the RCA’s commitment to developing a robust and supportive
 research environment.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Underpinning the RCA’s research and knowledge exchange activity and support is a
 commitment to continually enhance existing collaborations, and develop new relationships with
 institutions, industry, the public and third-sector organisations. Engaging with key research
 users, beneficiaries and audiences is fundamental to the College’s research, and will ensure that
 it continues to make a positive difference to many sectors of society, business, industry and
 public life.

 RCA researchers regularly and actively collaborate with both national and international partners.
 As above, internal RKE funding schemes administered by the RKE Office provide funding to
 develop networks and collaborations with a view to establishing joint research projects with other
 universities and partners from industry and public/third sector organisations, both in the UK and
 internationally. Examples of successful internally-funded projects include: Crafting Futures
 Central Asia, where QR GCRF funding has been used to match-fund the British Council-funded
 project (co-led by RCA and University of Leicester) in Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan. This project
 has developed new collaborations with local craftspeople to co-research and co-create methods
 for peer support and exchange, including intergenerational storytelling and communication,
 sustainable craft and design knowledge and skills development, and enhanced access to
 information about crafts practices in and beyond the region. Internal funding was also awarded
 to the MSRC for scoping work, including identifying and developing relationships with strategic
 partners in STEM-based faculties and industry, which fed into the successful £5.4m UKRI bid,
 Interdisciplinary Circular Economy Centre for Textiles: Circular Bioeconomy for Textile Materials.
 This proposal was led by the MSRC, collaborating with a wide range of academic and industry

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 partners, including UCL, University of York, University of Leeds, University of Manchester,
 Cranfield University, University of Cambridge, UK Fashion & Textile Association, IDEO, Oxfam
 GB, and Wandsworth Borough Council.

 There are a number of externally-funded RCA collaborations with UK and international partners,
 in addition to those mentioned in earlier sections. The Multi-Platform Inspection Maintenance &
 Repair in Extreme Environment (MIMRee) project is funded by Innovate UK. Sareh leads on this
 project for the RCA, collaborating with University of Bristol, University of Manchester, Royal
 Holloway University of London, Thales UK, and the Offshore Renewable Energy Catapult. The
 project reduces the need for humans or autonomous vehicles to go offshore to carry out wind
 turbine blade inspection, maintenance and repair (IMR) tasks and removes the need to shut
 wind turbines down to carry out inspections. The Creative Exchange Knowledge Exchange Hub,
 funded by AHRC, was a collaboration with Lancaster University (lead partner) and Newcastle
 University (RCA lead Myerson) that connected arts and humanities academics with public and
 private sector organisations to explore creative applications of digital tools and solutions on
 social and cultural challenges. The Creative Europe-funded 4Cs: From Conflict to Conviviality
 through Creativity and Culture project brought together partners from across Europe (Catholic
 University of Portugal, lead partner; Vilniaus Dailes Akademija, Lithuania; Savvy Contemporary
 e.V, Germany; Museet For Samtidskunst, Denmark; Stiftelsen Tensta Konsthall, Sweden; Ecole
 Nationale Superieure des Arts Decoratifs, France; Fundacio Privada Antoni Tapies, Spain; RCA,
 led by Crimmin) to explore how training and education in art and culture can reflect on, and
 respond to, conflict through audience participation and co-production.

 RCA research is interdisciplinary and engages with diverse research beneficiaries, users,
 audiences and communities by design. Phillips (Co-PI for EPSRC-funded Citizen Nature Watch
 with Goldsmiths) designed public engagement strategies, methods and interventions related to
 the My Naturewatch camera to increase engagement with nature for diverse groups; this project
 had wider impact on museums, conservation organisations and education providers. Phillips was
 provided internal funding from the RKE Office to participate in the NCCPE Engage Researchers’
 Academy (public engagement training), and to undertake further work for the Citizen Nature
 Watch project with research participants and users. Phillips was subsequently awarded an
 EPSRC Telling Tales of Engagement award worth £10,000 (one of only three nationally in
 2019). These awards enable researchers to tell a tale of digital economy research impact
 through a series of public engagement events or activities over eighteen months. Phillips’ work
 was also shared through the RKE Office-funded Design for Active Engagement Cross-College
 research symposium with colleagues and PGR students; the event involved colleagues from
 HHCD and the School of Arts & Humanities, V&A Dundee and the University of Brighton.
 Another example is Gaudion’s (HHCD) research collaboration with the autism charity, Kingwood
 Trust. This collaboration included the project Green Spaces, which involved working with adults
 with autism and learning difficulties, and their family members and support staff, in researching
 and developing a green space in Kingwood College Gardens. The project also published
 guidance on designing positive sensory experiences in green spaces for adults with autism.

 RCA research has an impact on the wider economy and society through engagement with a
 range of industry and cultural partners as well as research users and beneficiaries. Brown and
 Oakley’s research and work with Professor Martin Smith on the AHRC-funded Digitally Printed
 Ceramic Surface projects led to the creation of a spin-out company (Smith & Brown), as well as
 to open-source CAD files allowing others to fabricate 3D parts to enable a particular laser printer
 to print on ceramic surfaces. Baseman’s Wellcome Trust-funded collaboration with NHS
 psychiatrist and leading dementia specialist, Professor Julian Hughes (Bristol), on the 9-minute
 film La La La La, explored how care-home residents with dementia or other cognitive
 impairments might express authenticity and citizenship through artistic intervention. Baseman’s
 film has been shared with the residents and presented nationally and internationally, alongside
 research publications. Anderson, Hall and Ferrarello’s Saving Lives at Sea collaborative
 project for the Lloyd’s Register Foundation (LRF; an independent global charity with the mission
 of engineering a safer world that works across 886 sectors and 173 countries) focused on
 finding tangible solutions for saving lives at sea and on rivers. The success of this project led to

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a strategic-level commission of the Design for Safety Foresight Review which investigated the
 role of design in tackling the top major future global risks (e.g. climate change). LRF has
 developed a better understanding of the role of design in providing solutions for safety
 challenges, and as a result of the Saving Lives at Sea, both the United Kingdom Maritime Pilots’
 Association (UKMPA) and the Royal National Lifeboat Institution (RNLI) have altered their
 practices. RNLI is also using the new design-led approach in the early stages of its Lake Victoria
 project to reduce drowning in the fishing community.

 The RCA’s research contributes to the sustainability of art, design and architecture through its
 engagement with, and impact on, non-academic partners, users and audiences, as well as
 through interdisciplinary collaborations. The Research England-funded Design Age Institute is
 addressing the Industrial Strategy Ageing Society Grand Challenge, and, along with
 interdisciplinary academic and industry partners, aims to generate economic and societal
 impacts through designing for an ageing population. Internally funded GCRF projects by Jacoby,
 Oakley and Ramanathan/Simmons address United Nations Strategic Development Goals
 Sustainable Cities and Communities, Gender Equality, and Decent Work and Economic Growth.
 Sun’s UKRI-funded Covid-Response grant to address mental health, resilience and wellbeing
 through nature-based solutions addresses both national and international priorities in the wake
 of Covid-19. Oakley’s AHRC-funded Sustainable Materials in the Creative Industries
 interdisciplinary scoping study is contributing to the AHRC’s exploration of future research
 initiatives, and addresses national and international priorities.

 RCA academic staff actively engage with and contribute to the wider research base through a
 wide range of activities, including organising and chairing conferences, giving invited keynotes,
 lectures, panels and presentations, staging public performances, having work acquired for
 private and public collections, and membership of editorial boards and national and international
 committees.

 RCA researchers have organised or chaired over 60 conferences during this period,
 including: Teasley (Design Policy Across Borders 2015, part of the AHRC-funded UK-China
 Design Policy Network, RCA); Hughes (Seoul Biennale of Architecture and Urbanism Thematic
 Symposium 2019, Dongdaemun Design Plaza, Korea); Cheang (Histories of Fashion and
 Cultural Exchange 2014, part of AHRC-funded Fashion and Translation: Britain, Japan, China
 Korea, V&A London); Cranfield (Conventions of Proximity 2016 interdisciplinary conference,
 performance event and film screenings, Birkbeck University of London); and Boyd Davis (co-
 Chair of The Design Research Society’s 50th Anniversary Conference 2016, Brighton Dome
 Complex). Notably, Lahoud was selected to curate the first edition of the Sharjah Architecture
 Triennial, Rights of Future Generations. The triennial ran from November 2019 to February 2020
 and was the first major platform for architecture and urbanism in the Middle East, North and East
 Africa, South and Southeast Asia, situating the built environment within the region’s complex
 social, economic, and cultural contexts.

 RCA researchers have been invited to give in excess of 100 keynote speeches since 2014.
 Notable keynotes include: Barfield (‘Useful Innovation’ at Designing Future Techstyle 2019,
 Hong Kong PolyU); Lahoud (‘Geographical Urbanism’ at Milan Expo 2015); Ramanathan
 (‘Picturing Words: Typography as Illustration', Tara Educational Research Society 2014,
 Chennai, India); Grinyer (‘From Idea to Design’ at Global Informatics Forum 2018, Kuwait);
 Toomey (‘SOFT SYSTEMS: Neo Couture for the 4th Industrial Revolution’ at Artificial
 Intelligence on Fashion and Textile International Conference 2019, Shanghai); Blees
 Luxemburg (‘London Dust/Silver Forest’ at (Re:)Thinking the Street - Urban Encounters 2015,
 Tate Britain); and Robins (The Matter of Material conference 2017, Turner Contemporary
 Margate). RCA staff have also given over 450 lectures, panels and presentations since 2014,
 nationally and internationally. Highlights include: Bichard (Fifth UN Women Safe Cities and Safe
 Public Spaces Global Leaders Forum 2020, Rabat, Morocco); Myerson (Active and Assisted
 Living Forum 2018, Bilbao, Spain); Torrisi (Design Day at CERN 2018, Geneva, Switzerland);
 Hamlyn (Edinburgh Film Festival 2019, Edinburgh); Ozden Yenigun (American Institute of


                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Aeronautics and Astronautics SciTech Forum 2019, San Diego); and Diels (Car.HMI USA 2018,
 Detroit).

 Staff have given over 30 performances in this period. Key performances include: Schwabe and
 Fernandez Pascual (CLIMAVORE: On Tidal Zones installation-performance, Isle of Skye, 2015-
 ); Davis (‘A Day in the Life of a City’, Venice Biennale 2019); and Strutton (‘Original Copy’, De
 la Warr Pavilion, Bexhill 2015). Avoidance-Avoidance by Ash incorporates an evolving play in
 the form of a love story, performanced amongst artworks, presented across four iterative
 exhibitions and performances in Rome, Florence, São Paulo and Graz (2014). The project has
 been performed in 5 languages and presented at Index - The Swedish Contemporary Art
 Foundation Stockholm, CAC Bretigny Paris, Arnolfini Bristol, Museo Marino Marini Florence,
 Monitor Gallery Rome, Mendes Wood DM São Paulo, and Stericher Herbst Graz.

 Staff work has been acquired by over 50 public and private organisations since 2014.
 Notable acquisitions include: National Portrait Gallery and Imperial War Museum (Kennard);
 V&A Museum (Taylor and Boyd); Tate Gallery (Thompson); Smithsonian National Portrait
 Gallery USA, Arts Council Collection, George Eastman Museum USA, and Kadist France (Satz);
 MIMA (Tatham and Baseman); National Poetry Library (Taylor); Philadelphia Museum of Art
 USA and the Mint Museum USA (Aylieff); Museum Arnhem Netherlands, Fries Museum
 Netherlands and KRC Collection Netherlands (Talbot); V&A Dundee, Boston Museum of Fine
 Art USA, Little Rock Museum USA, Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art USA, Spencer Museum of Art
 USA, Scottish Parliament, Glasgow Life (Boyd); and Museum of London, Weltkulturen Museum
 Frankfurt, Fondation Louis Vicat France (Blees Luxemburg).

 A sizable proportion of RCA staff undertake activities which shape and sustain the disciplines
 and support art, design and architecture research. Two members of staff were members of the
 REF2014 Sub-Panel 34: Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory (Barfield, Boyd Davis).
 Over the period, 20 staff have been members of Research Council Peer Review Colleges:
 AHRC (15 total, including Oakley; Phillips; Campbell; Hall; Fortnum; Golding; Jacoby);
 EPSRC (3 total, including Sareh and Gheerawo); and ESRC (2 total; Bichard and West). Other
 funding bodies engaging RCA researchers as reviewers include: InnovateUK (over 30 reviews
 by Grinyer); NERC (Sun); Swiss National Science Foundation (Diels and Buchan); Austrian
 Science Fund (Boyd Davis, Satz and Gheerawo); Wolfson Trust (McGinley); British Academy
 (Jacoby); Leverhulme Trust (Toomey); Wellcome Trust (Simmons); and Horizon 2020 M-
 era.Net (Ozden Yenigun). Boyd Davis served as an assessor for the Research Assessment
 Exercise (RAE) Hong Kong panel. Bichard and Diels have served on the British Standards
 Institute Committee.

 RCA researchers are involved in a number of other international and national panels, boards
 and committees, including: Research England Council (Barfield); ResearchFish Steering
 Board (Oakley); Design Council National Advisory Panel for TransformAgeing programme
 (Gheerawo); EPSRC E-Textiles Network Steering Board (Toomey); AHRC Design Leadership
 Fellow Advisory Group (Triggs); Global Disability Innovation Hub (McGinley); Design History
 Society, Chair of Equalities Working Party (Cheang); RSA Social Awards 2018 Panel Chair
 (Gheerawo); V&A Research Institute Steering Committee (Barfield); Ashmolean Museum
 Research Committee (Teasley); Research Collective for Decolonizing Fashion Steering Board
 (Cheang); Ceramic Art London adviser (Aylieff); British Council International Fashion Showcase
 judge (Webber); member Working Group on Models for the Assessment of Higher Art Education
 Institutions by the European League of Institutes of the Arts (Barfield); selected participant for
 AHRC/ICHR workshop ‘Cultural Heritage and Rapid Urbanisation in India; and American
 University of Paris conference board (Broach).

 RCA researchers hold a number of editorial positions as well as refereeing academic
 publications which ensures RCA actively engages with the wider discipline. Fortnum is founding
 editor of Journal of Contemporary Painting, and Buchan is founding editor of Animation: an
 Interdisciplinary Journal. Myerson is the editorial director of Worktech Academy, and Brooker is
 commissioning editor of the series Lund Humphries. Editors include: Sareh (Journal of Sensors),

                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Watson (bauhaus imaginista, Practice International, and Textiles Open Letter, Joseph-Lester
 (Transmission Annual, Walking Cities: London), AA Files (Giudici), and Hamlyn (Experimental
 and Expanded Animation, Kurt Kren Structural Films). Other editorial positions: Golding (series
 editor, Zetesis: International Journal for Fine Art, Philosophy & the Wild Sciences); Sommer
 (scientific managing editor, Journal of Integrative Bioinformatics); Campbell (editor for expanded
 content, Journal of Architecture); King and Joseph-Lester (guest editor, Journal of Writing in
 Creative Practice); Greenall (guest editor, Architectural Design); and Talbot (guest editor,
 Journal of Visual Arts Practice). Editorial and advisory board members include: Millar
 (Afterall); Oakley (Luxury: History, Culture, Consumption); Brooker (IDEA, and Interiors,
 Design, Architecture, Culture); and Fantini von Ditmar (Kybernetics).

 RCA researchers refereed for over 60 academic publications in this period, including: The
 Design Journal (Gheerawo, Myerson, Bichard, West); Moving Image Review and Art Journal
 MIRAJ (Buchan); Journal of Material Culture (Oakley); Journal of Mechanical Engineering
 Science (Hall); Journal of Contemporary Painting (Tatham); Animation: an interdisciplinary
 journal (Simmons); International Journal of Human Computer Studies (Diels); Journal of
 Industrial Textiles (Ozden Yenigun); Journal of Architecture (Jacoby, Campbell); and Journal
 of Design History (Boyd Davis, Cheang). Staff also peer reviewed for publishers including:
 Bloomsbury, SAGE, Routledge, RIBA, Goldsmiths Press, MIT Press, and Verso.

 RCA researchers have examined more than 230 PhD and MPhil submissions at UK and
 international institutions, including: The Architectural Association, London; TU Delft; RMIT; UCL;
 University of Cape Town; Glasgow School of Art; University of Cambridge; Imperial College
 London; University of Ulster; India Institute of Technology; ETH Zurich; SOAS; Istanbul
 Technical University; Courtauld Institute of Art; IIT Bangalore; Lancaster University; University of
 Florence; University of Warwick; and Loughborough University.

 Researchers hold leading positions in more than 50 professional subject associations and
 societies. Notable positions include: Trustee, UK Association of Art Historians (Neil); Chair,
 Automotive User Interest Group (Diels); Executive Committee, Computer Arts Society (Boyd
 Davis); Advisory Board, International Association of Universal Design Council, Design
 Management Institute (Gheerawo); Fellow, Design Research Society (Hall, Bichard); Fellow,
 RSA (Dare, Myerson, Bichard); Fellow, Royal Anthropological Institution (Oakley); Fellow,
 Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851 (Greenall); Fellow, Theatrum Mundi (Blees
 Luxemburg); Fellow, Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and
 Commerce (Anderson and Neil); and Art and Design Advisor, British Mycological Society
 (Ivanova).

 RCA researchers have received recognition with distinguished scholarly awards, fellowships,
 placements and residencies. Notable Fellowships include: Ozden Yenigun, Marie Skłodowska-
 Curie Fellow (2018); Sareh, EPSRC Innovation Fellowship (2018); Ivanova, London Doctoral
 Design Centre Creative Economy Post-doctoral Fellow (2019); Wu, AHRC Design Fellowship:
 Challenges of the Future (2020); Smith-Granderson, Queens Museum USA Jerome
 Foundation Fellowship for Emerging Artists (2018), Harvey, Ohio Arts Council USA Individual
 Artists Fellowship (2017); Bichard, Professorial Fellowship, University of Brighton (2016);
 Broach, Stanley Picker Gallery Design Fellowship (2014). Researchers have received national
 and international artist- and/or curator-in-residence positions at: Irish Museum of
 Contemporary Art (Staton, 2016); Mahler & LeWitt Studios, Italy (Shani,2019); Arts Council
 Wales Newton – Emscher Residency (Coutts, 2015-16); Civitella Ranieri Foundation (Smith-
 Granderson, 2019-2020); Artspace Sydney, Australia (Burns, 2014); Leverhulme artist
 residency, John Hansard Gallery, University of Southampton (Satz, 2015-16); The London
 Library (Matthews, 2019-2020); Griffelkunst award, Germany (Talbot, 2017-18); and Casa
 Wabi, Mexico (Schwabe and Fernandez Pascual, 2019).

 Staff hold visiting and honorary positions in over 25 institutions worldwide, including: Myerson,
 Visiting Professor, Oxford Institute of Population Ageing, University of Oxford; Kaasa, Visiting
 Professor, University of Toronto, Canada; Campbell, Visiting Professor, Southeast University,

                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 China; Hall, Visiting Professor, Central Academy of Fine Arts (CAFA), Beijing, China; Golding,
 Honorary Professor, Duncan of Jordanstone College of Art & Design; Torrisi, Associate
 Professor, IE School of Architecture and Design, Spain; and Ivanova, Honorary Research
 Fellow, Kingston University.

 Notable awards received by RCA researchers since 2014 include: Bichard, ESRC Outstanding
 Impact in Society finalist for The Great British Toilet Map (2016); Richon, Royal Photographic
 Society Education Award (2017); Luxemburg, ART360 Legacy Award (2016); Myerson,
 Champion of Inclusive Design Award, Include Conference International Steering Committee
 (2015); Tatham, Arts in Public Places Award, Saltire Society Scotland (2016); and Gaudion,
 Autism Professionals’ Award for Best New Technological Innovation, National Autistic Society
 and Network Autism (2014). Of particular note is Shani’s Turner Prize 2019 which was awarded
 jointly to all four nominees as a collective for the first time in Turner Prize history. Shani and the
 other nominees (Oscar Murillo, Helen Cammock and Lawrence Abu Hamdan) lobbied the judges
 to recognise “commonality, multiplicity and solidarity”, requesting that they not single out one
 artist. The judges unanimously agreed to the nominees’ request and chose to award the group
 as a collective.

 The research leadership of the RCA’s academic and research staff across the art and design
 field is evident in the broad and deep connections described above. This is what has enabled us
 to secure substantial increases in the range of our research specialisms and of our partners
 across the creative and cultural sectors, the major industrial sectors, the NHS and local
 community groups both close to our campuses and internationally. The significant growth in
 research-active staff, in research income, in the number, quality and funding of doctoral degrees,
 and in the creation of new, successful, interdisciplinary research centres and a successful new
 MRes programme are indicators of a rich research environment supported by investment in
 people, infrastructure and facilities. This sets the foundations of our work over the next decade,
 and our continued investment in support for research excellence and impact, research career
 development, and a supportive environment and infrastructure for specialist research within and
 across disciplines will enable the RCA to continue producing high-quality research with real-
 world impact in the future.




                                                                                               Page 21
