Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of East Anglia

 Unit of Assessment: Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Overview: Political, Social and International Studies (PSI) is a medium-sized Department (23.1
 FTE) in a large interdisciplinary School alongside Philosophy and Language-Based Area Studies.
 Located in the Arts and Humanities Faculty, we undertake research across Political Science and
 International Relations. We are recognised for our subfield-defining interdisciplinary research on
 Electoral Institutions, the European Union, Critical Security Studies, Media, the Politics of
 Language, Political Theory, and Environmental Policy, and for significant interventions though a
 range of engagement and impact activities.
 Our research addresses, in interdisciplinary ways, questions of fundamental intellectual, ethical
 and practical political significance. For example:
    •   What makes an election free and fair? How can local and national elections be managed
        effectively? What is electoral integrity, and how can it be measured and improved? (e.g.
        Baris Ari, Toby James)
    •   How do EU institutions function and interact? Who are the people who work for the EU civil
        service? What do they believe and why? What drives innovation in EU administration,
        policy and regulation? (e.g. Pierre Bocquillon, Sally Broughton-Micova, Hussein Kassim,
        Kate Mattocks)
    •   How are terrorism, migration, and religion constructed and 'sold' as security threats? What
        are the social and political implications of such framings for citizens, migrants, and socio-
        political institutions? How can these dynamics be understood and researched in ways that
        centre the experiences of those subject to security politics? (e.g. Suzanne Doyle, Lee
        Jarvis, Lee Marsden)
    •   How are new forces and phenomena (such as global cities, mass migration, transnational
        terrorism and state responses to it) transforming international politics and institutions?
        What theoretical and methodological innovations can best help understand these
        processes? (e.g. Simon Curtis, Lee Jarvis, Lee Marsden, Ra Mason, Adriana Sinclair)
    •   How are visual media and commercial systems of popular culture and celebrity affecting
        the dynamics of political power (e.g. Delia Dumitrescu, Ben Little, John Street, Helen
        Warner), and how are digital technologies transforming political economy, political culture
        and political conflict? (e.g. Alan Finlayson, Lee Jarvis, Ben Little, John Street, Alex
        Williams)
    •   How should interpretive and quantitative methods be developed, deployed, and combined?
        (e.g. Baris Ari, Delia Dumitrescu, Alan Finlayson, Michael Frazer, Susan Hodgett, Ben
        Little, Eitan Tzelgov)
    •   What are the political and ethical aspects of language-use and how should we evaluate or
        regulate hate speech or rhetoric? (e.g. Alexander Brown, Alan Finlayson, Lee Jarvis,
        Adriana Sinclair)
    •   What drives or obstructs climate and environmental policies and how can they be better
        formulated and implemented? (e.g. Meghan Alexander, Pierre Bocquillon, John
        Turnpenny).
 Our expertise in these and related areas is sought by practitioners whose policy and practice we
 have helped reshape, and by the media to which we regularly contribute analysis and opinion. We
 play a key role in promoting the understanding of Politics and International Studies within our
 region and nationally, whilst also collaborating and holding leadership positions in international
 research networks and associations. In our day-to-day work, we strive to support each other in all
 these areas, ensuring equity, and recognising the distinct and changing needs of a diverse range
 of colleagues across their careers.
 Research Organisation: Research in PSI is resourced and supported within the framework of
 three broad groups: Politics, Institutions and Theory; Cultural Politics, Communication and Media;

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Critical Global Politics. They represent a refinement of plans specified in the REF2014 submission,
 developed to intensify critical mass in IR and to put Media-related research into clearer
 conversation with subfields in Political Studies and other social sciences. Open to all staff
 (including Research Contract Staff, Research Fellows, PhD students and teaching only (ATS)
 colleagues), as well as colleagues in Area Studies, Philosophy and other disciplinary fields, the
 groups are forums for discussing work-in-progress (articles, books, grant proposals), debating
 general intellectual developments, and identifying areas where innovation is needed and
 collaboration possible. They are also important venues for the mentoring of ECRs by experienced
 researchers. Many staff participate in more than one group.
 In addition, at a well-attended all-Department seminar (term-time weekly for most of the census
 period), work is presented by PhD students, UEA staff and external speakers. Importantly,
 colleagues also take part in seminars in Philosophy, Area Studies (including the Centre for
 Japanese Studies), the Centre for Competition Policy (CCP), Film, Television and Media, and
 Environmental Sciences, and lead campus-wide research forums including the Ethics Forum and
 policy@UEA.
 Aided by this supportive environment and close-knit collective mentoring, staff working in the unit
 have published 16 monographs, 201 peer-reviewed articles, 21 edited books and 96 book
 chapters in the census period – 334 publications in all compared to 180 reported in REF2014,
 which marks a significant increase in our research power.
 Research Strategy 2014-2020 and from 2021
 Since the last REF, we have expanded our research community, strengthened our research
 culture and research management systems, and developed clear plans for sustainable
 development beyond 2021. We have focused efforts on meeting four key challenges.
 1. Strengthening Areas of Specialisation
 Because the unit was small in 2014, a key goal was to increase our numbers, while strengthening
 and securing specialist interdisciplinary research areas. Accordingly, we have invested in
 recruiting highly talented staff able to complement and deepen our specialisms whilst enhancing
 methodological sophistication and international partnerships. Whereas in 2014, the unit submitted
 12 full-time staff, 18.6 FTE are returned to UoA19 in 2021 – an increase of more than 50 per cent.
 In addition, and indicative of our interdisciplinary research ethos, 1 colleague is included in UoA30
 (Philosophy), 2.5 in UoA25 (Area Studies) and 1 in UoA34 (Media Studies). Since 2014, strategic
 appointments were made to strengthen:
    •   Methods including the quantitative analysis the study of Parliamentary rhetoric (Eitan
        Tzelgov), conflict (Baris Ari) and media (Delia Dumitrescu), and interpretative analysis of
        narratives, governance and public policy (Michael Frazer, Susan Hodgett, submitted to
        UoA25);
    •   EU Studies including institutions and climate change policy (Pierre Bocquillon), media
        regulation (Sally Broughton-Micova) and cultural policy (Kate Mattocks);
    •   Security Studies including nuclear policy (Suzanne Doyle), illicit migration (Alexandria
        Innes, left 2020), terrorism (Lee Jarvis) and Japanese foreign policy (Ra Mason, submitted
        to UoA25);
    •   Social and Political Theory where we have strengthened contemporary ethics (Michael
        Frazer, submitted to UoA30) and theories of hegemony and power (Alex Williams);
    •   Media and Politics including critical theories of celebrity power (Ben Little) and digital
        platform politics (Alex Williams), and gender and the creative industries (Helen Warner,
        submitted to UoA34).
 This growth has strengthened key areas by:
    •   retaining while revitalising and modernising our specialism in Media Politics;
    •   creating a new cluster of expertise in Critical Security Studies;
    •   enhancing our capacity to integrate quantitative and interpretive methodologies;
    •   extending the range of our well-established research in social and political theory.



                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 From 2021 we will further strengthen these areas by:
    •   building our capacity in research around electoral integrity, and digital politics and policy;
    •   growing our research concentration in critical IR;
    •   further investing in researchers combining or innovating quantitative and qualitative
        research methodologies.
 2. Increase and Diversify Research Funding Income
 In 2014 our research spend was £1.2M. Since 2014 we have been awarded 33 new grants with a
 total in-unit award of £2.3M (£3.4M by UEA), marking a significant improvement in grant capture.
 This has been achieved by strengthening our research infrastructure: intensified mentoring within
 research groups and one-to-one, training away-days, and ‘seed funding’ for project development
 (details in Section 3).
 As well as sustaining similar levels of research income, key strategic aims after 2021 are:
    •   attracting further funded postdoctoral researchers;
    •   further diversifying research funding sources;
    •   building on our successes at network creation by working with local, national and
        international partnerships;
    •   playing a leading role in large-scale collaborative research and impact projects;
    •   extending our range of international partners.
 Work already underway that will come to fruition after 2021 includes Street’s leadership of an
 AHRC project on protest music (with colleagues at Reading and Warwick), James’s ESRC project
 on electoral integrity (with a colleague at Newcastle), and Kassim’s programme of activities as
 Senior Fellow under the ESRC’s award-winning ‘UK in a Changing Europe’.

 3. Make Impact 4* and Support Enhanced Engagement
 In REF2014, our impact was judged 90% at 3*. Since then we have focused our work on:
    •   the impactful provision of analysis, information and insight that can improve professional
        practice in political and governmental organisations;
    •   engagement work: recognising UEA’s status as a key anchor institution in our region,
        we encourage and support the dissemination of research findings as HESA-designated
        ‘Business and Community Interaction’ and as contributions to regional, national and
        international media.
 With this focus, the unit has successfully integrated impact and engagement in routine research
 planning. We have done so through:
    •   appointment of a School ‘Impact Champion’ to support and advise all colleagues on
        planning, funding, implementing and managing impact and engagement work;
    •   targeted and extensive use of funds from the UEA ESRC Impact Accelerator Account and
        from UEA’s allocation from the Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) (see Section 3);
    •   supporting consultancy/enterprise work such as Toby James’ Electoral Management
        Network;
    •   making the most of the University’s participation in the National Co-Ordinating Centre for
        Public Engagement, and University prizes for impact and engagement;
    •   collating and sharing information and experiences of how to work with government, media
        and third sector organisations;
    •   establishing regular and popular public lecture series on key contemporary issues such as
        ‘The Too Difficult Box’, ‘Charles Clarke in Conversation’, ‘Brexit Means Brexit: But What
        Does That Mean?’, ‘Britain in the World’ and ‘Big Data, Big Questions’.
 Our two Impact Case Studies typify the success of our focused support for research which
 enhances and improves professional practice:
    • Toby James was runner-up for the ESRC Impact Prize for Outstanding Contribution to
       Public Policy in 2018, recognition of his extensive contributions to the management of



                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        elections, the training of poll workers locally and nationally, in the UK and elsewhere, and
        his co-founding and co-managing of the APPG on Democratic Participation.
    •   Research on the EU administration led by Hussein Kassim inspired change in the internal
        organisation of the European Commission and informed the modernisation programme
        implemented by the Council Secretariat.
 In addition, we supported: Alexander Brown’s work improving practice at the European
 Commission Against Racism and Intolerance (submitted to UoA30); Chris Hanretty’s work with
 pollsters (since moved to another institution); Alan Finlayson’s work with political speechwriters
 and the European Speechwriter Network; Alexandria Innes’ work on supporting asylum-seekers
 with Citizens UK (moved to another institution in 2020); Lee Jarvis’ work with police officers,
 Prevent coordinators, community organisations, and faith groups; and John Turnpenny’s work with
 the Environmental Audit Committee.
 Impact, engagement and research are fully integrated. We have robust systems for the financial
 and personal support of colleagues in this area, as well as wide collective experience. This will
 remain a central focus from 2021. With colleagues across the campus, we are exploring
 opportunities for collaboration and knowledge exchange with local and regional government, and
 developing plans for the delivery of training programmes and research-driven CPD. Reflecting our
 leadership in this area, Ben Little now leads activities at Faculty level as the Associate Dean for
 Engagement and Innovation. We will continue to invest in impact on election integrity including
 election management during the pandemic, the EU, the UK post-Brexit, ECRI, the Prevent
 Programme, speechwriting, and post-Covid work on neighbourliness.
 4. Increase PhD Numbers and Develop Training Provision
 Key goals following REF2014 were to increase the number of PhD students, improve training
 provision for them and secure RCUK funding. As a result of sustained focus on this area and
 careful resource allocation:
    •   the number of PhDs awarded has tripled between REF cycles from 8 to 24;
    •   we have become a key part of the ESRC SeNSS DTP (with City, Essex, Goldsmiths, Kent,
        the Reading, Roehampton, Royal Holloway, Surrey, and Sussex), providing opportunities
        for research, training, and collaboration;
    •   we were awarded an ESRC Advanced Training Grant to deliver a residential course in
        discursive and ideational methods of policy analysis, attracting students from across the
        country;
    •   we renewed and enhanced our participation in the AHRC CHASE DTP (with Birkbeck, the
        Courtauld, Goldsmiths, Essex, SOAS, Kent, and Sussex), which offers training in the arts,
        humanities and creative practices, with an emphasis on work with the creative industries;
    •   we are leading on developing policies to support the mental health and wellbeing of PhD
        students as part of the ESRC and OfS-supported COURAGE project.
 Supported by unit research groups, research students are encouraged to publish their own work
 (detailed in Section 2). With a strong postgraduate research environment in place, future strategy
 is centred on developing our methodological training provision within the SeNSS and building on
 our success in attracting ESRC-supported students, while diversifying the range of international
 students funded by their home governments.
 Interdisciplinarity
 PSI and UEA are intrinsically interdisciplinary. Our collaborations across fields have been central
 to our success in attracting research funding and to our published research. Staff have held
 research grants and/or co-authored with colleagues in departments of Business, Economics,
 Criminology, Digital Humanities, Environment, History, Law, Linguistics Media Studies, and Music,
 routinely take part in research seminars in those subject areas and convene cross-disciplinary
 research groups on, for example, Ethics, on Migration, and on Policy. They also play a full role in
 UEA’s Centre for Competition Policy, Tyndall Centre for Climate Change and the 3S Group
 (Science, Society and Sustainability).




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Open Research
 All of our research outputs since before 2016 have been compliant with HEFCE Open Access
 policy with pre-prints available through the UEA PURE system when copyright permits. We also
 make use of an Open Access agreement between the university and major publishers including
 Springer, Taylor & Francis, and SAGE. Funds from the UKRI Open Access Block Grant have been
 used to purchase Open Access rights for publications in locations not covered by these
 agreements. Papers that do not qualify for UKRI support are eligible for Arts and Humanities
 Faculty (HUM) support through a dedicated Publications Fund to which applications may be made.
 As a result, 24 publications are available via Open Access.
 Research Integrity and Ethics
 The University has implemented the UUK Concordat to Support Research Integrity. Any research
 project involving human subjects must receive advice from, and be approved by the Faculty of
 Arts and Humanities Research Ethics Subcommittee, and then by the University’s Research
 Ethics Committee. This also applies to PhD research projects, Masters and Undergraduate
 research.

 2. Staffing strategy and staff development
 The Department is strongly committed to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers, whether full-time or part-time, short-term or permanent contract, PGR or senior
 researcher. We understand that sustaining our research community requires recognising and
 responding to different circumstances and needs. One of the first non-STEM departments in the
 country to secure an Athena SWAN Bronze award, we will shortly submit an application for Silver.
 With the University we are accredited for the use of the ‘Two Ticks’ disability symbol, and
 signatories to the Stonewall Diversity Champions Programme and the Advance HE Race Equality
 Charter, and are enacting action plans in both areas.
 To support research careers, all colleagues develop an annual Research Activity Plan, which is
 discussed with the Research Director and Impact Champion who advise the Head of School to
 ensure that teaching and administration workloads allow time to be committed to research. This
 process is in addition to an annual appraisal with the Head of School and supplements the collegial
 support provided by the research groupings. Specific mentoring is provided for early career
 researchers. Mentoring is also offered to colleagues working on funding applications or impact
 projects, as well as others on request or through the ECR Forum. These processes help us learn
 how best to recognise the diverse needs of colleagues.
 To support career development training is available to all from UEA’s Centre for Staff and
 Educational Development. Provision includes training on applying for research funding,
 developing impact strategies and research methods, tools and technologies. Specific funds are
 available for externally provided research training (for example in languages, programming,
 methods) and equipment (such as software for data analytics).
 Early career researchers (ECRs) meet with a mentor regularly to reflect on achievements, plans
 and work-life balance. Teaching and administrative workload is reduced in the first year to protect
 research time. The Faculty organises a regular lunchtime interdisciplinary ECR Forum to facilitate
 networking and to deliver training/advice on publication strategies, applying for funding,
 engagement, impact and promotions etc. A Faculty funded scheme, ‘Annual Adventures in
 Research’, awards up to £2.5k (on top of School funds) for the development of career-building
 research programmes devised by ECRs.
 Research Contract Staff (RCS) and Post-Doctoral Fellows are supported and integrated into
 our research community. An RCS co-ordinator ensures their interests are represented at Faculty
 level, and that they can access advice and support. They are appraised annually by a senior
 colleague, and invited to take part in all research events and training. The focus is on assisting
 RCS to become career ready, and staff often co-publish with RCS: Street co-authored academic
 articles with Dave Laing, Tom Phillips and Simone Schroff; Kassim co-wrote reports for the Council
 Secretariat with Francesca Vantaggiato. Within the census period, Sophia Hatzisavvidou
 (Leverhulme ECF) took up a full-time post at Bath. Of six Post-Doctoral Lecturing Fellows all have
 taken up permanent posts: Red Chidgey at Kings College London; Suzanne Doyle at UEA; David

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Hughes at Royal Holloway; Mariana Poberezhskaya at Nottingham Trent; Robert Topinka at
 Birkbeck; Nick Wright at UCL. RCUK project Research Associates have also gone onto academic
 careers: Schroff at Plymouth, Tom Phillips at UEA, Katja Swider at VU Amsterdam, Cassian
 Osborne-Carey at Warwick.
 Research time is ring-fenced in the workload model. Academic Teaching and Research (ATR)
 staff, including part-time and fixed-term research staff, have 0.4 FTE of their contracted hours
 dedicated to research. Further time is allocated to impact work; those developing priority case
 studies were allocated 0.2 FTE. Externally funded research time is honoured in full. Colleagues
 are eligible to apply for a semester of study leave after every six semesters of service. Applications
 for study leave outline clear research outcomes that are demonstrably in line with personal and
 unit level strategy, whether focused on publication, funding or impact. Over the census period, 21
 colleagues took such leave. For E&D purposes, we monitor this success. Of these 15 were men,
 six women.
 Celebrating research is a central element of our culture. Achievements are reported in School
 and Faculty newsletters, by email and social media. An annual Faculty Research Showcase
 involving talks and poster displays promotes work across the Faculty and stimulates
 interdisciplinary thinking. The University awards annual prizes for research engagement, and
 impact.
 Recruitment and Retention: In the REF2014 submission, staff turnover was a concern. Since
 2014, turnover has markedly declined. Of 23.5 research staff in post today, eight were in post at
 the last census and 13.5 are new appointments, one is on a short-term contract funded out of
 research income and one is a PDRA. Since 2014, four staff with permanent posts have moved to
 positions at other institutions. Six staff have been employed as Research Associates and six as
 Post-Doctoral Lecturing Fellows undertaking research.
 In 2014, gender balance in the unit was poor: only one woman featured in a 12-strong submission.
 In the present submission, six of 19 are women an increase from 8.3% to 31.5% - a positive but
 still partial improvement. Women professors in the School and Faculty are providing mentorship
 for women colleagues in PSI encouraging promotion applications for example, as we aim for
 increased diversity in senior positions beyond REF2021.
 Our current staff complement comprises five professors, one reader, two senior lecturers and
 eleven lecturers. Of current staff, we anticipate only one retirement in the next five years. In the
 current funding context, we anticipate that, beyond replacement appointments, expansion will
 primarily come from research funding to employ research contract staff or to replace those
 seconded to research, and from the attraction of funded independent post-doctoral researchers.
 Appointments Process: When recruiting, we work within the framework of the University’s
 equality and diversity policies. All staff involved are required to undertake equality and diversity
 training, including for unconscious bias. The School specifically encourages applications from
 groups currently under-represented at UEA, and appointments panels must demonstrate gender
 balance. We seek to recruit to full-time and indefinite posts whenever possible. Fixed-term and
 part-time appointments are made only when a post arises because of leave or research council
 funding.
 Promotions: Staff are actively encouraged to apply for promotions, increments, and one-off pay
 awards, and to take up Faculty leadership positions. Within the census period our unit has
 provided faculty Associate Deans for Postgraduate Research as well as Engagement and
 Innovation, and leave cover for the Associate Dean for Research.
 Internal panels recommending promotion are made up of staff from all levels, and tasked with
 advising colleagues on how best to present their case to the Faculty and University. Annual Faculty
 ‘Demystifying Promotions' events ensure colleagues of all backgrounds and career stages are
 encouraged and empowered to apply. Extensive revision of promotions policy since 2014 has
 recognized the diversity of potential achievements in publishing, funding, impact and engagement.
 Within the period two staff have been promoted to Chairs (James, Jarvis), two to Readerships
 (Brown, Hanretty), and three to Senior Lectureships (Curtis, Frazer, Innes). Leadership roles in
 the School are filled through an open recruitment process, and recognised in the workload model.

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Equality and Diversity
 Athena SWAN has transformed our collective reflection on matters of equality and diversity. We
 hold a Bronze Award and are making progress towards Silver. An Athena SWAN coordinator
 oversees the monitoring of the gender balance (and other protected characteristics) in research
 grant applications, promotion applications, key role-holders, invited speakers and in attendance
 at events. Findings are shared at meetings of all staff and with the management team, which
 enables us to review means of ensuring breadth of representation and participation. We schedule
 non-public research events to take place during core hours enabling participation by colleagues
 with caring responsibilities, and have changed membership of the promotions committee to
 include junior and mid-level as well as senior staff. Staff can access dedicated Faculty funds for
 childcare during conferences, parental leave is not counted against the time needed for study
 leave, and those returning to work are given funding, personal support and mentoring. When the
 pandemic led to colleagues working from home a Faculty Care Support Fund was instituted to
 assist all staff with caring or home-schooling responsibilities so that they can continue career
 development.
 Staff are required to complete successfully unconscious bias training every three years. If they fail
 to do so, they cannot take part in panels appointing staff, awarding funds or allocating
 studentships. This is now being followed up by Allyship training.
 Research students
 Improvement of recruitment, retention and completion of PhD students was a key priority in 2014.
 Twenty-four students completed PhDs during the current cycle compared to eight in the previous
 census period. We have focused intently on developing our PGR student experience. This
 culminated in the appointment of John Turnpenny as Associate Dean for Postgraduate Research
 and his development of the innovative UEA COURAGE project to support PGR mental health and
 wellbeing, one of 17 projects supported nationally by the HEFCE Catalyst Fund.
       PhDs and                     2013- 2014- 2015- 2016- 2017-             2018-   2019- Total
    research-based                   14    15    16    17    18                19      20
      professional
       doctorates
         PhDs            Number       3       4        3       3       6        2       3       24
    Research-based       Number       0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0
     professional
      doctorates
 Recruitment of research students is by open competition with students and potential supervisors
 collaborating on the development of applications. We encourage students seeking professional
 development and wanting to study part-time, and provide bespoke block training programmes for
 those unable to attend regularly during term. A fifth of training programmes produced by the
 Graduate School are now available online. The proportion increases each year. We also support
 interdisciplinary PhD research students. Since 2014, we have co-supervised projects with
 colleagues in American Studies, Education, Environmental Science, Law, and Philosophy.
 We have developed a high-quality training offer for PhD students. 1+3 students complete an MRes
 in Social Science Research Methods. Plus 3 students are required, in consultation with
 supervisors, to develop a training programme and to attain sufficient ‘credits’ to meet the Vitae
 competencies. Where appropriate or necessary, PGRs may complete single modules from the
 MRes in order to ensure their methods training is at the right level. All our students regardless of
 funding have access to training delivered as part of our role in two RCUK postgraduate consortia:
 CHASE (AHRC) and SeNSS (ESRC). The UEA Doctoral College also offers training programmes,
 seminars and workshops for students at different stages, and supports a student-run
 interdisciplinary symposium. It awards funding of up to £500 per year to any student regardless of
 funder for external training, conferences, and research visits. We were recipients of an ESRC
 Advanced Training Award to deliver training in quantitative and qualitative methods for ideational
 and discourse analysis (delivered in partnership with Linguistics researchers in Area Studies),

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 which UEA students could attend for free. Our students also benefit from institutional membership
 of ECPR and Chatham House and from funding for membership of PSA, BISA, or MeCCSA. In
 addition, the School runs bespoke sessions on topics including ‘getting published’.
 Studentship funding is available from both the AHRC (CHASE) and the ESRC (SeNSS). In the
 period, we have had three ESRC-funded students. Other external funders include The King
 Abdullah Scholarship Fund, and the Turkish Government. PGRs have also been supported by the
 UEA Centre for Competition Policy and University funding, both by open competition. Students
 are assessed and ranked by Department and Faculty Committees constituted in accordance with
 principles for ensuring Equality and Diversity.
 Quality of supervision is monitored and carefully maintained. To be eligible as PhD Supervisors,
 all colleagues must attend and complete training every three years. Supervisory teams are created
 to enable mentoring and career development of ECRs new to supervision. Supervisory meetings
 must take place at least once a month with a minimum of three formal meetings, involving the full
 team where progress and goals are formally recorded per year. Students submit a full plan and
 draft chapter within the first nine months of candidacy, which is reviewed by an internal panel not
 including the primary supervisor.
 PGRs are fully integrated into the research culture. They take part in the weekly seminar series
 and in research groups where they are mentored in the same way as any colleague. Success is
 indicated by the number of PGR students publishing in journals including: Political Studies Review;
 The British Journal of Education Policy; Journal of Common Market Studies; The Journal of
 European Public Policy. Staff also collaborate with PGRs on research: one PGR was co-applicant
 in a successful grant bid to the ESRC and three became paid RAs on funded research projects
 within the unit. Alumni have taken up academic positions at, for example, King’s College London,
 Westminster, SOAS, UCL, and Warwick. One of our students won an ERC Fellowship placement.
 Others are Vice President of the Liberian Studies Association, PhD Convenor of the BISA
 Poststructural Politics Working Group, and Vice President of UK-China Media and Cultural Studies
 Association.
 Equality & Diversity and the REF
 The unit has ensured that all staff are fully apprised of both the REF in general and of UEA and
 unit procedures, and that decision-making processes are maximally transparent while respecting
 confidentiality. In particular, it is emphasised in line with the UEA Code of Practice that promotion
 and appraisal processes are entirely distinct from the REF. The Research Director and REF co-
 ordinator report on HEFCE policy developments at all-staff meetings, while research groups
 collectively read examples of research outputs and discussed what makes work 1*, 2*, 3* or 4*.
 Colleagues were asked to assess and rank their own research outputs. Internal and external
 assessments were fed back to colleagues, and formed part of discussions about which outputs to
 submit. In 2020, all colleagues regardless of career stage were involved in reading others’ work.
 In-progress versions of this REF document were circulated to all colleagues, who were invited to
 comment, respond and suggest amendments. Submitted work has been authored by staff on part-
 time, full-time and fixed-term contracts. While the bulk of submitted work is by colleagues still in
 post, it includes work of former colleagues we supported when they were at UEA.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Research income
 From 2014 to 2020, colleagues have been involved in project grants worth over £8.9M, £2.3M of
 which was awarded to this unit. As explained in Section 1, increased grant capture has been
 achieved through intensified mentoring and improved training. Colleagues are expected actively
 to pursue individual or collaborative research income generation, outlining strategy in their annual
 Research Action Plan where advice is given, and resource planning begins. Study leave may be
 granted for time specifically spent on developing such applications. We do not set a target for
 number or value of applications, since we have found this practice counter-productive, and
 contrary to our equality and diversity goals. Staff are supported in applying for the type and scale
 of funding most suited to their research, career-stage and personal situation. We particularly


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 encourage collaborative team-based applications where senior and junior colleagues can support
 and advise each other.
 We have sought to diversify our research income streams by, for example, targeting international
 funding bodies. Our success is evidenced by grants from: the Australian Research Council, the
 US-based Centre for Ethics and Education, Boston University's Questrom School of Business,
 Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, Russell Sage Foundation, University of Sydney, Spencer Foundation,
 Swedish Foundation for Humanities and the Social Sciences.
 Support for grant bids includes dissemination of information on opportunities by the Research
 Director, who encourages staff to apply to appropriate schemes, School and Faculty-level training
 workshops, and extensive mentoring and peer review. AHRC proposals are sent to HUM faculty
 for peer-review, ESRC proposals to a review college of staff from Social Sciences Faculty (SSF)
 and HUM that advise on submission. Other applications are peer reviewed by staff across UEA
 with cognate research interests and/or scheme-specific experience.
 Another aspect of this strategy was to support colleagues to increase participation in regional and
 national research networks, and funding projects. Since 2014, the Unit has strengthened
 structures and processes that encourage and assist colleagues with developing collaborative work
 with other researchers and with research users. For example, within UEA, colleagues founded
 and lead the Migration Research Network and policy@UEA; they are co-investigators in the ESRC
 Centre for Well Being, and collaborate with ClimateUEA and the Centre for Competition Policy.
 Beyond UEA, we have been co-investigators in the AHRC UK Copyright and Creative Economy
 Centre (CREATe), the Open Research Area consortium project ‘Climate adaptation policy lock-
 ins’ and the EU Horizon 2020-funded project, ‘EMU Choices’. We have led three major projects
 on EU administration, and work with other Senior Fellows in the ESRC’s ‘The UK in a Changing
 Europe’.
 Through an internal ‘seed fund’ we actively promote colleagues’ initiation of workshops,
 conferences and other activities which support interdisciplinary and inter-institutional research
 activity. A dedicated Faculty Events Management Team has professionalised the organisation of
 conferences and workshops. In the census period we have hosted the European Communication
 Research and Education Association joint workshop, the Rhetoric Society of Europe Biannual
 Conference, the UK Copyright and Creative Economy Centre (CREATe) conference with the
 Centre for Competition Policy, and the PSA American Politics Group annual conference. We have
 held AHRC network events on Politics and Subcultures, and Rhetoric and the Media, as well as
 research workshops on borders, the refugee crisis, and activism and comedy, and a policy
 summit on misogynist and disablist hate speech.
 PhD students took part in these events, delivering papers, chairing panels and networking.
 CHASE-funded students record their conference presentations, which they discuss with their
 supervisors and on which they receive feedback.
 Major collaborative grants held by staff in the unit include some which are carried over into the
 current period: ESRC centre funding for the Centre for Competition Policy (£4.5m; Kassim Co-I),
 EU Seventh Framework (£462k; Turnpenny Co-I), and AHRC CREATe (£353,805; Street PI).
 The following is an indicative rather than exhaustive list of examples of grants awarded which
 reflect our strategy of inter and intra institutional collaboration across sub-fields and disciplines
 and involving staff at all career stages:

       Funder                   Project               Total Value        Applicants/Partners
  Centre on            The Playing Field for          €45,000        Sally Broughton-Micova
  Regulation in        Audio-Visual Advertising                      (Lecturer), PI with Co-I in
  Europe                                                             UEA Norwich Law School.
  AHRC                 Political Ideology, Rhetoric   £397,430       Alan Finlayson (Prof) PI; the
                       and Aesthetics in the                         Co-I was a UEA Post-
                       Twenty-First Century: The                     Doctoral Fellow and is now
                       Case of the ‘Alt-Right’,                      Lecturer in Digital Media at
                                                                     Birkbeck.


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  RCUK                Transnational Organised       £85,000        Alexandria Innes (Senior
  Partnership for     Crime and Translation of                     Lecturer) Co-I with a UEA
  Conflict, Crime     Languages                                    colleague in UoA25.
  and Security
  Research

  RCUK                British [Muslim] Values       £77,972        Lee Jarvis (Prof) PI with
  Partnership for                                                  UEA colleagues in UoA25
  Conflict, Crime                                                  and UoA34.
  and Security
  Research
  ESRC                Senior Fellowship, The UK £487,424           Hussein Kassim (Prof), PI
                      in a Changing Europe’ for
                      ‘Negotiating the Future.
                      The UK’s repositioning in
                      Europe’
  Private Donation    The European              US$100,000         Hussein Kassim (Prof), PI
                      Commission: Facing the                       with Co-I in UEA Norwich
                      Future                                       Business School.
  The Open            Climate Adaptation Policy £483,431           John Turnpenny (Senior
  Research Area       Lock-Ins                                     Lecturer); Co-Is at
                                                                   University of Oldenburg and
                                                                   the Open University of The
                                                                   Netherlands

 General Support for Research
 All research colleagues are automatically allocated an annual amount by the School to spend in
 support of research activities. Over the period this has varied year-on-year from £400.00 to
 £600.00 with a total spend of around £37,000. Top-up funds are available for participation in
 international events linked to the development of collaborative research partnerships, and ‘seed
 funding’ is available for workshops to develop collaborative projects. These funds involve an
 application process, but the purpose is to support high-quality research, mindful of equality or
 diversity; unsuccessful applicants receive advice and are invited to resubmit so that the process
 contributes to mentoring. Faculty funding for research is also available and has been awarded as
 follows:

           Funding scheme                   Maximum           Number of        Total amount
                                           award (per           grants
                                           person, per        awarded to
                                              year)              UoA
  Faculty Small Awards scheme                 £500                13               £5,390
  Faculty Annual Adventures in               £2,500               1                £2,300
  Research (ECR only)
  Faculty Publications Fund                  £1,000               2                £1,750
  Research Training Fund                     £1,000               2                £1,500
  Conference support fund (childcare)         £500                2                 £529




 Impact and Engagement
 As noted in Section 1, we have been successful in intensifying impact since 2014. All colleagues
 are supported in developing engagement activities and in building relationships with non-HEI
 partners. Those pursuing major impact projects were allocated time in in their workload on top of
 that for research. Extensive mentoring was made available drawing on School, Faculty and
 University expertise. Workshops were organised in collaboration with the National Centre for

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Coordinating Public Engagement. At School level, workshops and plenaries for all those working
 on impact projects were organised termly, and at University-level advice, information and networks
 were made available by a dedicated Impact Officer funded by an ESRC Impact Accelerator
 Account. Funding was made available as follows:

              Funding scheme                   Maximum            Unit          Unit income per
                                               award per       success:               fund
                                              project, per     number of
                                                 year            grants
                                                                awarded
     Faculty Engagement Fund                  £500                  4                £1,235
     Faculty Innovation Fund                  <£2,000               3                £9,033
     Pro-Vice Chancellor’s Impact Fund        <£20,000             13               £102,996
     ESRC Impact Accelerator                  <£25,000             11               £42,733

 All colleagues were invited to propose projects in 2015 (and at any time subsequently). Seven
 cases were initially developed (with one added later), each with a focus on improving professional
 practice in politics/policy. Of these, two have been submitted to UoA19 and one, based on
 interdisciplinary research, to UoA30. Others may go forward for REF2027.
 Consultancy work is incentivised and supported by a University consultancy service, which
 advised Toby James on his Electoral Management Network, and Finlayson on delivering
 speechwriting training. Media engagement is promoted and supported by, for instance, a
 dedicated Media Office, regular training events and University support for The Conversation.
 Colleagues have contributed as experts to flagship BBC news programmes, such as Newsnight
 (Hanretty in 2015), appeared on national and international radio, and published analyses in
 national newspapers and the international press.
 Other Research Infrastructure
 The UEA Media Suite, a state-of-the-art production facility including edit labs, digitisation lab, radio
 and television studios, with two dedicated technicians, supports impact and engagement work.
 Examples include the department’s podcast series Politics at the Edge, recording public lectures,
 film production for disseminating research and direct connections to broadcast media. All
 resources are fully accessible.
 All staff have their own computing facilities and access to site licenses for key applications such
 as MatLab, NVivo, SPSS and Stata. Where site licenses are insufficient or unavailable the unit or
 Faculty funds individual licenses.
 The Library identifies resources that support the unit research community with a dedicated subject
 librarian responsible for acquisitions, who also assists with research queries and PGR training.

 4. Section 4: Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 The development and support of collaborations with colleagues at other institutions and interaction
 with research users have been two central and successful parts of our strategy. Cross-institutional
 collaboration is encouraged by School and Faculty funding schemes for organising research
 workshops and hosting events, supported by study leave, and enhanced by the success of
 colleagues in securing external funding and visiting fellowships.
 Key cross-institutional research collaborations include:
    •   The international Electoral Management Network led by Toby James with partners
        including the Carter Center, the MIT Election Lab, the Center for Social Studies, Portugal,
        and the Electoral Integrity Project, University of Harvard, which moves to UEA in 2021 with
        James as co-director. James held a visiting positions at Sydney University and at
        International IDEA, strengthening collaborations with researchers and research users on
        electoral management;



                                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   The Cyberterrorism Project co-founded and co-convened by Lee Jarvis with a legal scholar
        at Swansea and an engineer at City, and funded by NATO, the US Office of Naval
        Research, the EPSRC and the ESRC; Jarvis also leads, with a colleague at Adelaide, an
        Australian Research Council Discovery Project on ‘The Proscription of Terrorist
        Organisations in Illiberal States’;
    •   The Nuclear Proliferation International History Project at the Wilson Center in Washington
        DC, where Suzanne Doyle has collaborated with other specialists in nuclear policy;
    •   Global Cities a programme of the Chicago Council on Global Affairs, where Simon Curtis
        is Senior Fellow, and involved in an ongoing programme of collaboration;
    •   Three major projects on the EU administration led by Hussein Kassim with partners at
        Sciences Po Paris, the European University Institute, the German University of
        Administrative Science, Edinburgh. Kassim has held visiting positions at the Robert
        Schuman Centre, EUI, and Science Po Paris, strengthening collaborations focused on EU
        institutions and administration. Kassim was also PI of the ESRC-funded project,
        ‘Negotiating Brexit’, where he led an observatory involving colleagues from 15 Universities,
        and co-I in ‘EMU Choices’, an EU Horizon 2020-funded project on responses to the
        Eurozone crisis, involving nine European universities;
    •   The UK Copyright and Creative Economy Centre (CREATe), investigating Intellectual
        Property, Business Models, Access to Finance and Content Regulation, and funded first
        as an RCUK Centre, then by an AHRC grant, where John Street is co-investigator.
    •   Climate Change Policy Lock-Ins, led by John Turnpenny, with Meghan Alexander, in
        collaboration with Open University of the Netherlands and University of Oldenburg.
 In addition, colleagues have used visiting positions to create new or strengthen existing research
 collaborations. For example, Sally Broughton-Micova has been a visiting fellow at the Centre on
 Regulation in Europe (CERRE), Alexander Brown at the University of Queensland, Kate Mattocks
 at the University of Ottawa, Adriana Sinclair at the University of Queensland, John Street at the
 University of Melbourne, and Eitan Tzelgov at the Varieties of Democracy Institute in Gothenburg.
 Engagement with research users
 In line with our research and impact strategy, we are strongly committed to engagement with
 research users. Faculty and Department funding and workload allocation for engagement has
 helped to develop relationships with the public, private and voluntary sectors. Indicative but not
 exhaustive examples of expert-engagement include:
    •   Sally Broughton-Micova’s support for minority languages broadcasting policy, working with
        the OSCE High Commissioner for National Minorities, with the European Experts Network
        on Culture and Audiovisual, and her expert advisory role on the Council of Europe’s
        Promotion of European standards in the Ukrainian Media Environment;
    •   Alan Finlayson’s research on rhetoric and speechwriting and work with the European
        Speechwriters Network and with the Government Communication Service;
    •   Alexandria Innes’ work on the resettlement of refugees with Citizens UK, Norfolk County
        Council, Norwich City Council, and other regional organisations;
    •   Toby James’ work on Electoral Management including engagement with local council
        officials, the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Democratic Participation (which he helped
        to found), the Scottish Parliament, the Welsh Parliament, The Joseph Rowntree Trust,
        the Venice Commission, UNDP, International IDEA and the International Foundation for
        Electoral Systems;
    •   Lee Jarvis’ work on the effects of the Prevent programme has involved engagement with
        the Kent, Hampshire, Surrey, Sussex, and Thames Valley Police Forces and with Muslim
        communities in Norfolk and Suffolk;
    •   Hussein Kassim’s research into the EU has involved engagement with the European
        Commission, the Council Secretariat, and the European Personnel and Selection Office;
    •   John Turnpenny’s research into ‘natural capital’ and eco-system services has led to
        engagement with Natural England, the Environment Agency, Scottish Natural Heritage,
        Natural Capital Committee, the English National Park Authorities Association, the RSPB,
        and Wildlife Trusts;


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   Alex Williams’ work on the digital platform economy has led to consultation with the office
        of the UK Leader of the Opposition, the IPPR, Common Wealth think-tank, the ENA
        Institute for Alternative Policies and Autonomy.
 Colleagues in the unit have delivered invited talks at think-tanks, including: Chatham House; the
 Chicago Forum on Global Cities; Ditchley Foundation; the German Association for American
 Studies; the European Policy Centre; the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs; and the
 Center for Strategic and International Studies.
 Public Engagement and Research Dissemination
 In addition to expert engagement, we disseminate research findings to the public, recognising our
 anchor role in our region and our civic responsibility, while also addressing national and
 international audiences. A book based on our popular public lecture series ‘The Too Difficult Box’
 won the Paddy Power Practical Politics Book of the Year prize in 2015. A series of ‘In
 Conversation’ events brought Nathalie Bennett, Harriet Harman, Caroline Lucas, John Bercow,
 Ed Balls, and Yannis Varoufakis to UEA, and Baroness Warsi and Baroness Sal Brinton spoke at
 our series on religion and British politics. A series on ‘Big Data, Big Questions’, funded in
 partnership with the ESRC Data Research Centre for Smart Analytics, brought speakers from local
 and central government, the private sector, Estonia and the European Commission to Norwich.
 As ‘UK in a Changing Europe’ Senior Fellow, Kassim organised townhall, ‘ask-the-expert’ and
 community events in Norfolk and Suffolk, convened international conferences in London, and
 arranged panels in Brussels. These are significant events presenting and promoting politics, and
 politics research in East Anglia and beyond.
 Colleagues also give frequent public lectures, often making use of RCUK engagement activities
 including the AHRC Being Human and the ESRC Festival of Social Science, where Mattocks,
 Brown, and Jarvis all made interventions. Williams gave addresses on his research on the
 changing nature of work and Inventing the Future’ at the Labour Party Conference Fringe, the
 People’s History Museum, the Trade Union Congress, the Bristol Festival of Ideas, Tate Britain,
 the Haus Der Kunst der Welt, and the Thyssen-Bornemisza Art Contemporary.
 We run a well-used blog site, Eastminster, and produce a departmental podcast, ‘Politics at the
 Edge’, with colleagues in the unit from journalism and practical media. Staff contributions to
 broadcast media include Anglia Television, Bloomberg TV, BBC TV and radio, Al Jazeera and
 South Korean Radio. Staff have been interviewed by the New Statesman, The Guardian,
 Wired.co.uk, Prospect Magazine, Die Welt, Le Monde, the Daily Mail, Independent, the Daily
 Telegraph, Libération, Der Tag der Frankfurter Allgemeinen Zeitung, Vice Magazine, and The
 Face Magazine. They have also written for The Conversation and published articles in The
 Guardian, The London Review of Books, The Daily Telegraph, the Shanghai Daily and The Times.
 Contribution to the Discipline
 Supporting and encouraging a key role in the life of our discipline and subfields through
 international research associations has also been a key part of our post-2014 commitment.
 Broughton-Micova is Vice-Chair of the Communications Law and Policy Section of the European
 Communications Research and Education Association; Finlayson was Treasurer of the PSA’s
 Rhetoric, Discourse and Politics Group until 2020, is a member of the steering committee of the
 Rhetoric Society of Europe and organised the first PSA Political Speech Competition; Kassim
 served on the executive committee of the ECPR’s Standing Group on the European Union and
 the ECPR’s Standing Group on Regulation; and Mattocks is a Trustee of the PSA.
 Journals
 We are editors of a range of journals. James is editor-in-chief of Policy Studies, which is based at
 UEA, while Dumitrescu is editor of Politics and the Life Sciences, Jarvis of Critical Studies on
 Terrorism, Little of Soundings, and Mattocks the British Journal of Canadian Studies. We serve
 on the editorial board of over 20 more journals, and have guest-edited 13 journal special issues
 since 2014.
 Support for Funding Councils
 Colleagues in the unit have served on the AHRC Peer Review College, the ESRC Peer Review
 College, the GCRF College, and the ESRC GAC for the Early Leaders Programme. We review
 applications for all the main UKRI and charitable funders, and also assess for the Commonwealth

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Scholarship Commission, Fulbright Scholarship, the European Research Council, the Centre for
 Research and Evidence on Security Threats, the German-Israeli Foundation for Scientific
 Research, and national research councils in Australia, Belgium Canada, France, Ireland, Israel,
 Norway, the Netherlands.
 Further Indicators of Esteem
 Members of the unit have delivered over fifty major addresses in the census period. They include
 keynotes by Brown on hate speech in Florida and in Hong Kong, Jarvis at the Universidad
 Complutense de Madrid, and Little at the annual Digital Cultures Conference at King’s College, as
 well as interventions by Finlayson inaugurating the Centre for British Political Life at Birkbeck and
 at the PSA World Speech Day event, Innes on ‘Freedom From Fear in a Diverse Society’ at the
 Central European University, Kassim’s delivery of the Tarn lecture in Oslo, Street at the German
 Association for American Studies in Hamburg, Curtis at the Post Habitat III International Congress
 in Barcelona, and Williams at the Great Transition Conference in Montreal.
 Colleagues have also given invited talks at the Universities of Cambridge, Durham, Goldsmiths,
 Sheffield, Ankara, California at Santa Barbara, Johns Hopkins, the Vrije Universiteit Brussels,
 Maastricht, Melbourne, Montreal, Newcastle NSW, Princeton, Do Sul De Santa Catarina, Sydney,
 and Vienna, as well as UCD, École Normale Supérieure, ENA, the Fondation Maison des Sciences
 de l’Homme, the College of Europe at Bruges, the Freie Universität Berlin, the IHS Vienna, the
 Sorbonne, and Sciences Po Paris.
 Finally, our work has been recognised through prizes:
    • Curtis was awarded the Hedley Bull Prize for Substantial and Original Contribution to
         Theory in International Relations by the ECPR in 2017;
    • Finlayson won the prize for the best article in Political Quarterly in 2014.

 Closing statement: Since 2014, we have developed critical mass in key subfields to which we
 contribute influential research. We have supported staff in realising their career development goals
 by learning to understand and adapt to individual circumstance rather than impose uniform
 processes, and we have upscaled our postgraduate research culture and community. Through
 increased research grant capture, we have made ourselves financially sustainable while
 significantly extending our reach. Recognising our social and civic duties, we have made
 engagement and impact a central part of our culture, and a rewarded part of a research career
 leading to transformations in political practice.




                                                                                               Page 14
