Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Leeds Beckett University

 Unit of Assessment: - 18 (Law)

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Leeds Beckett University has a rich heritage and can trace its roots, through its founding
 colleges, to 1824 and has been teaching law since 1924. As Leeds Beckett University (“Leeds
 Beckett”) approaches its bicentenary, Leeds Law School (“Law School”) looks forward to
 celebrating its centenary of delivering legal education and training professional lawyers to work
 across the UK and around the world. We are bold with our plans for success and proud of all
 our achievements.

 Over the past five years, significant investment has been made in the Law School to develop a
 research climate from where a strong research culture has grown. Our journey from REF
 2014 to REF 2021 has been exciting with huge investments being made in staff and research
 focussed resources to deliver success.

 The Law School is 1 of 10 academic schools within Leeds Beckett and research is seen as an
 integral part of the School’s activities. As such, we ensure that research allied to legal education
 keeps pace with social, legal, economic, technological and political evolution, and the Law
 School is committed to becoming an internationally renowned research unit in law. Our research
 is distinctive and occupies territory in the traditional and non-traditional areas of publication: from
 conference papers and article publications to archival research leading to performing arts of
 screenplay, poetry and theatre performance.

 Leeds Beckett’s Strategic Plan 2016-21 placed “Leading Research and Academic Enterprise” at
 the forefront of the strategy with equal importance to “An Excellent Education and Experience”.
 Three key improvement activity areas have been specified and defined within Leeds Beckett’s
 Leading Research and Academic Enterprise Strategy and Leeds Beckett’s institutional REF
 2021 Environmental Statement. The Law School has placed these three areas at the heart of its
 academic research strategy and action planning. These are:

    1. Research Intensity: growing and developing staff to engage in high quality research.
    2. Research Environment: supporting our staff to deliver outstanding research.
    3. Research & Enterprise Prestige: increasing research income.

 These key principles are central and core to the emerging research profile and ethos being
 forged across the Law School and its academic community of practice.

 The Law School’s journey towards developing a sustainable, collegiate and vibrant
 research culture centres on our mission to couple the delivery of an excellent legal education to
 our students and produce research that is ground-breaking, accessible, quality-driven and
 relevant to our region and beyond, both nationally and globally. All research activities relevant to
 Unit 18 are carried out by academics employed by and within the Law School.

 We are delighted to have seen significant growth in research activity with the following headline
 statistics between 2014 and 2021.




                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     ú     Increase in REF-returnable staff from 2 to 10.
     ú     Increase in REF-returnable publications from 4 to 55.
     ú     Increase in permanent staff qualified to doctorate level from 3 to 14. NB By the end of
           March 2021, this will increase to 17 and represent 50% of our FTE academic staff.
     ú     Increase in PGR students from 5 to 16.
     ú     5 members of academic staff have completed their PhDs whilst working with us.
     ú     We have recruited staff with expertise in obtaining research funding.


 Our strategic research priority, captured in the Law School’s Scholarship, Knowledge Transfer
 and Research Strategy (2017), as well as within the Law School’s 5-Year Plan (2016), has been
 to develop a research climate from where a dynamic research culture continues to grow. This
 has been hugely successful and has led, over a single REF cycle, to the School being in a
 position to submit to REF in its own right when, in 2016 this was not anticipated. Key strategic
 aims from these documents are:


                                   STRATEGIC RESEARCH AIMS

         Aim 1: To increase the amount, variety and quality of research and scholarship work
         undertaken within the School.

         Aim 2: To encourage research activity through transparent and clear allocation of
         research time to staff.

         Aim 3: To establish, over time, two Research Centres focusing respectively on Legal
         Education and Conflict, Security and International Human Rights.

         Aim 4: To create an inclusive and supportive research culture.

         Aim 5: To increase the visibility and credibility of LLS through external conferences and
         events.


 Research in the School was placed at the top of the agenda upon the appointment, in February
 2015, of a new Head of Law. His view, captured in the Law School’s 2016 5-Year Plan, was
 that ‘[w]e recognise that research within the HE sector is an essential activity underpinning the
 work we do and, as such, must encourage all staff to engage with research and publication.’ To
 help deliver the research agenda, a significant number of changes were rapidly implemented to
 stimulate research activities and, ultimately, allow for our submission to REF 2021.

 The School has designed a framework of activities to encourage ideas and create a supportive
 space for knowledge exchange, facilitate collegiality, support the development of staff and to
 deliver the Research Strategy that stems from the Law School’s strategic priorities. These
 priorities have included:




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     ú   Recruiting staff who are research active to build on the School’s research strengths
         to produce research that delivers impact.
     ú   Creating a Research Group to oversee all research activities within the Law School.
     ú   Prioritising the recruitment staff with doctorates in appropriate and relevant areas.
     ú   Choosing doctoral candidates with care to develop clear Law School research focus.
     ú   All new academic staff who join us without a doctorate are supported by the Law
         School to register for a PhD within their first 12 months, with a view to completion
         within 6 years. Support includes payment of PhD fees, deployment time and full line
         manager support.
     ú   Further grow our PGR community by recruiting students to our MRes and research
         based LLM programmes, as well as encouraging more of our own PGT students to
         consider research degrees.



 In 2016, as part of the Law School’s strategy to provide a research climate, a series of research
 training sessions were organised to help staff generate research questions and ideas and
 explore how these might be taken forward. This early initiative soon developed into a seminar
 series, incorporating research presentations from our doctoral students, early career researchers
 (“ECRs”) and those colleagues that had achieved research independence. This series is now
 fully entrenched in the School’s academic calendar; achieves excellent attendance from across
 Leeds Beckett; has showcased the broad variety of research from within the School; fostered
 inter-disciplinary and multi-disciplinary research where appropriate; and helps to share good
 practice. The seminar series is further detailed in the People section below, under staff
 development (Strategic Aims 1 and 4).

 Early conversations and staff consultation helped shape our Research Strategy, identified
 common research interests, and focused on the clustering of research activities around two key
 themes: first, legal education and, second, anti-terrorism and international human rights. The
 grouping of research within these clusters has developed critical mass and allowed for more
 structured peer support, hosting symposia, as well as strategic, financial and other research-
 based support from the School. This clustering now takes the form of two research groups,
 Applied Legal Education and Conflict, Security and International Human Rights, which are both
 on a rapid trajectory to evolve into University Research Centres.

 Concentrating on the scope of the research groups represents a clear way to encourage an
 increased number and variety of greater quality outputs (Strategic Aim 1) as well as
 establishing an inclusive and supportive research culture to develop and sustain research
 reflections and collaborations (Strategic Aim 4). This has great potential for internal growth and
 external partnerships, as well as research that has significant and far-reaching impact within our
 communities of practice, both internal and external. This concentration increases the School’s
 research trajectory, reputation and credibility in a changing academic research-orientated world
 (Strategic Aim 5).

 Research time allocations
 The School’s 5-Year Plan stated the need for the Law School to continue to ‘develop a strong
 research culture’. Primary to achieving this has been to establish a protocol for providing
 colleagues with research time that is built into the School’s workload allocation model. This
 protocol is central to Strategic Aim 2, in that it has and continues to encourage research activity


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 through the transparent and clear allocation of research time. In doing so, it also supports an
 increased level of research and a greater diversity and variety of research (Strategic Aim 1).

 Following the adoption of the 5-Year Plan in 2016, the Law School strategically uses research
 time allocations in order to accelerate research development and reward research initiative. In
 accordance with University policy, these protocols take into account staff status as an
 independent researcher or working towards independence, as well as any research plans
 developed by individual staff members.

 All staff on academic contracts up to and including Grade 9 (Principal Lecturer, Course Director
 and Reader level), receive 150 hours of self-managed Research and Scholarly Activity (RSA)
 time to allow them to keep abreast of professional development, enhance research expertise,
 and write and contribute to books, articles and conference papers. In addition, all independent
 researchers receive 280 hours of research time on the production of an appropriate annual
 research plan. Staff working towards independence can apply for up to 150 research hours to
 fulfil their own research plans, whilst colleagues undertaking further degree study, or a
 doctorate, receive 150 hours. In order to ensure currency and effectiveness, the policy is
 regularly reviewed by both the Research Group (made up of all senior research active staff) and
 the Workload Group (comprising senior Law School managers). As we move to the next REF
 cycle, the Law School will support additional time (above RSA and independent research hours)
 for activities linked to high impact research and/or where research funding is available.

 The School employs a sophisticated workload planner to help manage staff deployment, and
 academics with particular research activities or deadlines can ask for their deployment to be
 specifically managed to balance research time and teaching time so that one is more
 concentrated at a given time of the year than another. This planner also assists with the
 management of sabbaticals – please see below p11.

 Research areas in Leeds Law School
 Whilst we have crystalised the Law School’s research activities around the two research groups
 identified above, this has not limited research activity elsewhere; the School has strength in
 many areas and a full list includes:

     ú   Airport Security                              ú   Legal Education
     ú   Counter Terrorism                             ú   Legal Technology
     ú   Criminal Justice                              ú   Medical Law
     ú   Environmental Law                             ú   Mental Health Law
     ú   Ethics                                        ú   Public International Law
     ú   EU Law and Policy                             ú   Sports Law and Governance
     ú   Family Law and Practice                       ú   Therapeutic Jurisprudence
     ú   Gender Rights                                 ú   War Crimes
     ú   Human Rights

 Academics are actively encouraged to develop research in their areas of expertise across a
 range of legal and socio-legal topics and work across disciplines as appropriate; this is fully
 supported by the research activities and networks within Leeds Beckett as a whole. Many of our
 PhD supervisions are interdisciplinary, and the Law School has strong partnerships with Leeds
 School of Social Sciences and Leeds Business School.



                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We also actively encourage and support our researchers in law via our research mentoring
 programme (see below p10) and fully subscribe to the ethos of ‘Research Informed Teaching’.
 As a full-service law school, offering a wide range of undergraduate and postgraduate courses,
 we are committed to ensuring that, wherever possible, our research activities underpin and drive
 our teaching agenda, particularly in the development of specialist modules and new courses.

 Our increased focus on research informed teaching, as outlined in the strategic documents, has
 led to the re-design of some existing modules, such as ‘Medical Law’ and ‘International Human
 Rights Law’. The School has recently validated a new LLM International Law: Conflict, Security
 and International Human Rights, with new modules on this course representing the research
 interests of our academics. These include modules such as: Democracy, Rule of Law and
 Human Rights; Genocide and War Crimes; Global Security, Counter Terrorism and Justice;
 Statelessness, Indigenous Peoples and Minority Rights; and International Environmental Law.
 These learning and teaching developments further encourage staff to undertake research
 (Strategic Aim 1) and (Strategic Aim 4). They also allow our staff to ensure the impact of their
 research can reach students of law directly and also provides the opportunity for broader impact
 via legal education publication.

 The Law School recognises the opportunity to encourage our law students to consider academia
 as a career path and become part of the next generation of academic researchers in law. As
 such, we developed 3 initiatives. First, was the creation of a ‘Research Assistant’ module where
 our students would support the research of an academic member of the team in the work they
 were doing. Initially mooted in the School’s 5-Year Plan, this idea bore fruit for the first time in
 the 2019-20 academic year though our Placement (Day Release) module. Here, a small group
 of law students supported the activities of members of the Applied Legal Education team.
 Second, some modules have encouraged early steps in research and PGR study with the
 introduction of poster presentations as an assessment instrument. Finally, and perhaps most
 successfully, a number of academics have worked with students to turn their coursework or
 dissertation submissions into published pieces of work.

 Since 2014, the School has invested almost £250,000 in research and staff development and
 this has helped staff to attend conferences nationally and internationally. Papers delivered at
 these conferences have been developed into journal articles, chapters, books and
 monographs, alongside numerous shorter journalistic pieces, blog posts and podcasts.
 Other outputs that showcase our research include invitations for visiting fellowships and
 keynotes.

 The result of these School research initiatives is that within a single REF cycle, the Law School
 has moved from a single legal academic’s submission in a non-law unit in REF 2014, to
 significant research activity and a rich collection of outputs, proving that the strategic vision
 determined in 2016 has been achieved. Further examples of our research success can be seen
 in the activities of our two research groups.

 Applied Legal Education Research Group
 We have a longstanding and rich heritage of legal education at Leeds Law School: we have
 been teaching law since 1924. The Applied Legal Education Research Group (“the Group”)
 is led by Guth, and focuses on the political, legal and regulatory framework in which legal
 education operates. This is not a new area of research for the School, with previous staff
 having worked and published on similar themes in the past. The primary aim is to increase
 REF-returnable research and outputs and increase the impact of the research undertaken.

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Group also encourages colleagues to work towards independent researcher status,
 writing about the work they do when delivering an excellent legal education to our students.

 The Group encourages and promotes scholarship, knowledge transfer and research on all
 aspects of legal education by bringing together researchers from a variety of backgrounds who
 share an interest in pedagogy, the academic discipline of law, learning and teaching on
 undergraduate, postgraduate, vocational and professional courses, and all types of legal
 education policy and practice issues. Research carried out within and through the group is
 grounded in theory, but also maintains a practitioner focus to inform students, law teachers and
 others working with(in) law schools or otherwise involved in legal education. Since its
 establishment in late 2016, the group has supported staff, including Graduate Teaching
 Assistants and academics working towards research independence, to present conference
 papers both internally and externally and to publish peer reviewed outputs.

 The Group and members of the Group have arranged conferences and symposia where
 members have also presented papers; for example, in June 2018, the School developed and
 hosted a special symposium reflecting on the Legal Education and Training Review five years
 on. The papers from this one-day special conference, that drew together the original LETR
 research team for the first time since the Review’s report was released, were published in a
 special issue of the Law Teacher: The International Journal of Legal Education with outputs
 included from Capps, Guth and Morrison.

 Promoting research impact (Strategic Aims 3 and 5) is also championed by the group. The
 Group’s members work closely and collaboratively with Professional Statutory Regulatory
 Bodies (“PSRBs”), such as the Bar Standards Board (“BSB”) and Solicitors Regulation Authority
 (“SRA”), as well as stakeholders and the learned legal associations of the Association of Law
 Teachers, Society of Legal Scholars, Socio-Legal Studies Association, and the Committee of
 Heads of UK Law Schools, to explore approaches to learning and teaching that have the
 potential to transform legal education across the sector.

 Conflict, Security and International Human Rights Research Group
 This research group focuses on the connected research areas of International Human Rights
 Law, War Crimes and Holocaust Studies, Criminal Law and the Criminal Justice System,
 Counter Terrorism and Transitional Justice. Research impact is clearly demonstrated within this
 research grouping through their outputs and publications portfolios, many of which can be found
 in our ‘output’ repository.

 Research projects in the area of International Human Rights include: an examination of
 constitutional and human rights issues in Sri Lanka, and health rights in Egypt (Pillay); the use,
 or more specifically, the underuse of photographs as a source of law and evidence in the
 punishment of genocide, and the dramatic performance of emerging holocaust testimony
 (Fijalkowski); and the tensions and consequences between Colombian laws requiring the use of
 ‘certified seeds’ and the defence and use of native seeds and seed saving by indigenous,
 farming and other communities (Ashley).

 Further activities by a member of this group, Lowe, includes research surrounding the
 Government’s National Prevent strategy and the evaluation of the complex cultural values
 surrounding radicalisation. Lowe, a member of the Police’s Counter-Terrorism Advisory
 Network, advises the police on the law and policy governing counter-terrorism at a national and
 regional level, thereby directly impacting upon external policy and practice and challenging the

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 socio-political perception of terrorism, extremism and radicalisation. Please see our Impact Case
 Study – The Better Implementation of Prevent.

 The Group has hosted two recent symposia: one in 2018 concerning the regulatory framework of
 government surveillance of electronic communication; and another in 2019, focussing on
 ‘Prevent’. Both events brought together a wide range of delegates working in these areas,
 alongside academic and regulatory experts, to interrogate policy and practice and challenge
 orthodox understanding. This feeds the discourse and ideas that such events generate into
 external conversations around the future policy development of regulatory frameworks.

 University Policy and Research
 The Law School abides by and embraces Leeds Beckett policies, and these are applied and
 integrated into our combined research ethos and practices that encourages the highest
 standards of research integrity. Our Code of Good Practice for Research provides clear
 information for researchers on ‘expected standards’ when conducting research. All research
 projects are subject to ethical scrutiny and Leeds Beckett’s Research Ethics Sub-Committee
 maintains oversight of the implementation of our Research Ethics Policy and Research Ethics
 Procedures and conducts an annual audit to assure itself of compliance by both staff and
 students. The Policy & Procedures for Investigating Allegations of Misconduct in Research
 provides detailed information on the University’s Policy for sustaining integrity in all aspects of
 research; a comprehensive set of procedures for use when investigating allegations of
 misconduct in research; and guidance on the appropriate disciplinary procedures associated
 with findings of misconduct in research. These have been benchmarked against the principles
 of the Universities UK Concordat to support research integrity (2012), the RCUK Policy and
 Guidelines on the Governance of Good Research Conduct (2013) and the UK Research Integrity
 Office’s Procedure for the Investigation of Misconduct in Research (2008). They have also been
 measured against comparator universities, to ensure that they are aligned with good practice.
 From July 2019, the University has had membership of the UK Research Integrity Office
 (UKRIO) further enhancing and promoting research integrity and oversight of best practice of our
 research activities.

 Summary of the Law School’s research strategy impact, successes and vibrant research
 community:
 As a result of our ambitions and actions, since 2014, we have continued to:

 (1) Increase the research activities of all staff and ensured the Law School’s research is
 operating in a research environment that is inclusive, developmental and sustainable.

 (2) Ensure the sustainability of the research student community. The current REF assessment
 period, there have been 5 completions, though 2 of these were international students and so do
 not feature in the HESA data. There are currently 16 Postgraduate research students enrolled at
 the Law School.

 (3) Generate research impact, increase research income and develop collaborations and
 partnerships, demonstrating that the Law School is making a definable impact as well as
 increasing the knowledge architecture of our subject fields

 Section 2. People

 The Law School, as part of Leeds Beckett University, has a thriving and active research

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 community, which is supported by an extensive range of developmental and career progression
 opportunities underpinned by principles of equality and inclusion as set out in the University’s
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Framework.

 This section is concerned with two main elements contributing to the research environment. The
 first part outlines the Law School’s current staffing and recruitment strategy as it relates to
 research. The second part highlights how the Law School supports staff to undertake research
 and is divided into subsections on financial support for research, the allocation of research time
 (as explained above on page 4), the formal mentoring scheme, staff development and finally
 other initiatives that are developing our research capacity and helping us to achieve the
 Strategic Aims set out on page 2 in section 1.

 Research profile development strategy
 A key aim for the 2014-21 period has been to increase the number of academic colleagues
 producing high quality research, with the clear goal that all staff who have a significant
 responsibility for research should produce work of at least 2 stars. The Law School’s
 commitment to research activity ensures that all staff have fully supportive line management,
 research mentors and individual research plans.

 Staffing Outline and Recruitment
 The Law School provides both academic and vocational legal education, and our staff
 recruitment reflects the balance between practitioner and academic expertise.

 Currently 10 out of 31 staff have been identified as having significant responsibility for research
 within the Law School and are being returned to the REF. Of these 10 staff, 1 is the Dean, 1 is a
 Professor, 3 are Readers, 4 are Senior Lecturers and 1 is a Senior Research Fellow. In
 addition, 14 staff are working towards becoming research independent including 2 recent
 doctoral graduates and 6 who are working towards research qualifications. This picture presents
 a significant shift from the staffing base at the beginning of the current REF cycle, when the Law
 School had a single professor and 2 further academic doctors. This dynamic change in activity
 demonstrates the seismic shift towards research as a central aim of the Law School’s activities
 and remit. Moreover, this indicates that we are meeting our research KPIs and delivering upon
 our 5-Year Plan.

 Recruitment of new staff has focused on two primary areas. First, to build a sufficient senior
 academic base to help develop a strong research culture and second, support less experienced
 staff via mentoring and personal collaboration. This approach began with the appointment of a
 research active Head of School in 2015, which led to the inclusion of a research agenda in the
 Law School’s 5-Year Plan and development of a School Research Strategy, which was formally
 adopted in January 2017.

 Numerous research driven appointments were made between 2016 and 2019 including 2 at
 Reader level and a Senior Research Fellow in 2019. Additionally, and in order to promote the
 research agenda, 2 research active staff have been promoted to senior positions within the Law
 School – 1 to Reader and another to Head of Law (Postgraduate). All of these senior
 researchers now provide research leadership, as members of the Law School’s Research
 Group, and mentoring to support and encourage our ECRs.

 Since 2015 there has been a significant investment in ECRs, help academic vibrancy and
 contribute to the Law School’s aims of increasing the volume and quality of research (Strategic

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Aims 1 and 5). These new employees have been particularly linked to the two research groups
 outlined above (Strategic Aim 3) and recruitment rounds have focused on research potential
 rather than track record. All interview panels convened since 2015 contain a research active
 and doctorally qualified member of staff, normally from the Law School’s Research Group. This
 ensures that great emphasis is placed on recruiting future talent and ensures successful
 candidates will meet the strategic aims set out in Section 1 above. All candidates are required to
 outline their research experience and plans on interview.

 Staff Support
 Strategic Aim 4 of the Law School is to support staff in their research activities toward a
 sustainable and vibrant Law School research culture. This is delivered via research time
 allocation, financial support for research activity, mentoring and staff development, internal
 research events and other research development opportunities. The Law School adheres to, and
 actively engages with all Leeds Beckett policies that affect and impact upon its staff and student
 population. The Law School acknowledges that these policies are there to create a positive and
 harmonious environment that both stimulates and enhances people’s lives and also promotes
 individuality. Law School strategies demonstrate that not only will these policies support and
 protect people, but they are fundamental to our practice and research.

 As part of the Law School’s drive towards research success, significant resource has been
 directed to the administrative team with the aim of removing as much administrative burden from
 academic staff as is possible. Since 2014, the administrative team has more than doubled in
 size (from 5 to 12) allowing for a number of tasks to be redirected from academic staff to
 administrative colleagues, allowing more time to be allocated to research related activities.

 Additionally, and as part of our research journey, our student assessment strategy has been
 amended to reduce marking burdens wherever possible, to free up academic time for research
 activities.

 Research plans are reviewed during the annual Performance and Development Review
 (“PDR”) cycle and there is now complete alignment with PDRs, research time allocation and
 workload planning processes.

 In order for the research workload process to be meaningful, most especially for those who
 are new to research, it is underpinned by mentoring and development activities (further
 details are below). Research plans are designed, discussed and finalised in collaboration
 with colleagues and in particular with research mentors. Research plans are reviewed by
 the Research Group and discussed with line managers and a recommendation for the
 appropriate time allocation is made to the Law School’s Workload Group. This Workload
 Group reviews individual requests for the particular organisation of research and teaching
 activities across the academic year to meet the developmental and professional needs of
 each person and the Law School overall. All full-time academic staff at Leeds Beckett are
 entitled to a non-teaching day each week and where staff are research active, either as
 independent or ECRs, their teaching is concentrated into two or three days, allowing
 multiple ‘free’ days for research activities. Additionally, researchers can request ‘heavy’ or
 ‘lightly’ weighted semesters to allow for additional concentration of thinking, writing and
 research time.

 Sabbaticals
 The Law School offers sabbaticals on a competitive basis to further enhance the ability of

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff to produce high quality work (Strategic Aim 1), use concentrated time to do so
 (Strategic Aim 2), and support staff at an appropriate point with their doctoral level
 qualifications (Strategic Aim 4). Sabbaticals are available to academic staff who can
 demonstrate that planned activities will make a significant contribution to the Law School’s
 strategic aims and will deliver impact. One sabbatical took place in 2019 and two
 sabbaticals made available for the academic year 2020/21. Applications for sabbaticals
 normally open each Easter for the proceeding academic year and all applications are
 reviewed by the Research Group before being confirmed by the Workload Group and
 ultimately the Law School’s Senior Leadership Team. Our sabbatical scheme will help build
 an inclusive and supportive research culture (Strategic Aim 4), lead to increased outputs of
 greater quality (Strategic Aim 1), which in turn will increase the visibility and reputation of
 the Law School (Strategic Aim 5). As our staff base increases, we hope to build the
 capacity to extend our sabbatical opportunities still further.

 Financial Support for research and staff development
 The Law School sets aside significant funds each year to support research activities and our
 staff are financially enabled to attend conferences and research events. The amount spent on
 research and staff development has increased substantially since the last REF cycle. Financial
 data shows that in the 2009-2013 REF cycle the Law School spent £39,189.61 on research and
 staff development activities. For this REF period, we increased this to £228,640.48.

 Conference support has been key to encourage staff to develop research ideas, produce
 research, and present their findings, thereby helping to develop staff research confidence,
 competence and ambition and increase our research visibility (Strategic Aim 5). Normally, staff
 who attend a conference must present a paper to justify attendance, though the Law School will
 fund ECRs to attend to conferences without a presentation requirement to build confidence and
 assist with network building.

 As well as funding external conference attendance, the Law School has also supported a series
 of internal events. These events have been designed to deliver an increase in the quality and
 type of research outputs as well as to embed a diverse research culture and give less
 experienced staff the chance to be involved in research events (Strategic aims 1, 4 and 5). All
 of the events have led to, or are leading to, tangible research outputs such as special issues or
 edited collections and have all included collaborations between senior staff and those newer to
 research. For example, the Legal Education and Training Review: 5-Years on conference held in
 June 2018 led to a special edition of the Law Teacher: The International Journal of Legal
 Education; and Counter-Terrorism symposia held in 2018 and 2019 each led to published edited
 collections. These events and collections also include the presentation of research findings from
 colleagues within the Law School.

 Mentoring
 Given the significant culture shift towards research over the last four years, huge efforts have
 been made to mentor and support staff to re-align their working priorities and become research
 active. This is considered a key mechanism in achieving the delivery of our research strategy.
 The mentoring process has run informally since 2016/17 but was formalised in the 2019/20
 academic year to stretch our academics further and help them fulfil research potential. All staff
 involved in research, regardless of whether they are independent researchers, working towards
 independence, or undertaking a research qualification, are formally assigned a research mentor.
 The majority of mentors are from within the Law School and mentees are grouped by either
 research interests or preferred research methodology. Where helpful, especially when a

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 colleague has a strong interdisciplinary focus or where particular subject matter expertise is
 needed, mentors are recruited from outside the Law School and in some cases outside of the
 University. All internal mentors are allocated time in their annual deployment for this role, which
 further highlights the importance the Law School places on this role. Further, reasonable
 expenses are paid to allow mentees to meet their external mentors.

 The mentoring relationship is intended to be flexible and the intensity, frequency and type of
 discussions, meetings or other activities will vary over time and between different mentors and
 mentees. However, one important element is that mentors support mentees with their research
 plans, assist in identifying training needs and suitable development, as well as acting as a
 sounding board for ideas and providing encouragement to seek and apply for funding. In many
 cases the mentoring relationship will form a lynchpin for publication possibilities, collaborative
 projects and joint research bids, or associated staff development activities relevant to research
 success.

 Staff Development
 The Law School encourages all staff members to undertake further study and fully funds
 course costs regardless of the awarding institution. Within this REF cycle:


      ú   5 members of staff have completed their doctorates (4 PhD and 1 DBA).
      ú   6 members of staff are currently studying for PhDs.
      ú   2 have completed LLMs with significant research elements.*
      ú   2 members of staff are currently studying for LLMs.*
      ú   2 members of staff is studying for an MA.*

  *staff undertaking masters’ study are fully qualified solicitors, who are at the start of their
  research journey and will then undertake PhD study.

 The Law School’s seminar series and research training
 In order to provide a forum for all researchers in the Law School to showcase and develop
 their work, we introduced a seminar series and research training and development sessions
 in 2017/18. The number of research presentations has increased significantly with 9
 presentations having taken place as of March 2020 and, where appropriate, these seminars
 have been interspersed with appropriate research training or development sessions. In
 addition, staff and research students have access to all training opportunities offered by the
 University’s Graduate School.

 Writing retreats
 Further research activity support includes holding regular writing retreats that have supported
 staff in completing publications and research qualifications. Our writing retreats build on
 mentoring and other formal staff development research activities by creating a space for focused
 writing that can then be developed through discussion and collaboration, or, through sharing of
 draft research activity and planning. They all take place away from the Law School and ideally
 off-site; all adhere to general writing retreat guidelines and have proven popular. Our retreats
 were initially daily events, but we have recently created residential options so as to encourage
 complete writing immersion and as with our generous staff development policy, all costs are
 covered by the Law School. Additionally, the Law School actively supports and participates in
 Academic Writing Month – “AcWriMo” – in November each year. CV-19 has impacted on our


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 planned retreats though the Law School has adapted, and they will take place virtually if
 necessary.

 Research Students
 Research students are welcomed as an integral part of our research community as we continue
 to create an inclusive and sustainable research culture. All research students are given the
 same opportunities as members of Law School staff and invited to, and to contribute to, our
 seminar series as well as all research events and the Law School writing retreats. By this, we
 demonstrate a commitment to support postgraduate study and to build a sustainable and vibrant
 postgraduate research (PGR) community.

 The School’s PGR community has grown significantly with strong progress on completion rates
 and better monitoring progress of doctoral candidates. Our 5-Year Plan, indicating a target of 15
 doctoral students to be enrolled by 2021 has been met and surpassed. The table below shows
 our expansion:



                                   Year               Number of students

                                 2014/15                        4
                                 2015/16                        5
                                 2016/17                        4
                                 2017/18                        9
                                 2018/19                        11
                                 2019/20                        13
                                 2020/21                        16

 In 2014/15, the Law School appointed 2 Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTAs) and in 2017/18
 we recruited a further 3. GTAs receive a fully-funded PhD, a stipend and additional payment for
 teaching 5 hours each teaching week – totalling approximately £32,000 per annum. We are
 keen to support GTAs and fully recognise that they represent the next generation of academic
 staff either within Leeds Beckett or elsewhere. As such, the strategy being developed for 2021-
 2026 includes plans to recruit further GTAs as well as the appointment of professionally qualified
 lawyers who will also have access to fully funded doctoral study.

 In addition to our GTA and other academic staff undertaking PGR study, the number of self-
 funding doctoral students in the Law School has increased and been fully integrated into the
 School’s research activities. The rise in PhD students is attributed to an increased visibility and
 credibility in and of our activities (Strategic Aim 5). The 5-Year Plan (2016-21) identified the
 need for an increase in doctoral supervision capacity in the School and our internal doctoral
 completions, as well as the strategic appointments outlined above, have increased the number
 of available supervisors from 3 in 2016 to 8 on 31st July 2020. On 1st January 2021, through
 new appointments, our available doctoral supervisors will reach 10.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The School has a history and reputation for delivering high impact, high value applied legal
 education and is building a reputation for high-quality research and development to match.



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Over the past few years, applications have been made to a variety of funders including the
 British Academy, the Leverhulme Trust and the OneHE foundation, with modest success. Staff
 are continuously putting in bids for research funding from specific subject funders, such as the
 Society of Legal Scholars, the Association of Law Teachers and the Oñati Institute for the
 Sociology of Law. We were delighted to appoint a Reader (Pillay) to the Law School with her
 long history of research grant success, and also her £10,000 BA Leverhulme grant in 2019. We
 also recently appointed a Senior Lecturer (Green) on January 1st, 2021, with his personal
 Modern Law Review grant of £10,000. Ashley has had particular success and secured almost
 £40,000 to support research and collaborative activities in Colombia.

 Since 2014, the Law School has had considerable success in securing funding for individual
 teaching, learning and student experience projects linked to our work in Applied Legal
 Education, and through enterprise activities more generally – we have received more than
 £500,000 from such projects and activities since 2014. As we look to the next REF submission
 circa 2028, our strategy will refocus our energies towards REF related income, unless these will
 provide research rich opportunities for member of our Applied Legal Education group.

 Infrastructure and facilities
 Leeds Law School is located at Leeds Beckett’s City Campus, within the Portland Building. The
 School utilises a number of spaces on the second and third floor of Portland as well as in the
 Rose Bowl, a purpose built and state-of-the-art teaching and conference facility in the heart of
 the Leeds commercial and retail district. The Law School also occupies a terraced house in a
 Georgian square in Leeds, which is used as the centre for our Law Clinic activities.

 Significant investment has been made since 2014 with the installation of a Hydra Immersive
 Simulation System (“Hydra”). Hydra is a unique, high-fidelity learning environment that
 immerses candidates in a given scenario and enables the monitoring of real-time leadership and
 decision making in critical incidents, for example a terrorist attack or significant ethical dilemma
 in legal practice. Hydra offers significant potential for research in two areas.

 The School is developing scenarios and training programmes based on research by the Conflict,
 Security and International Human Rights Research Group (see Section 1). Hydra is also being
 used for pedagogic research, examining the use of immersive learning in legal education. This
 work depends on a greater and more systematic and sustained use of the Hydra suite, which is
 one of our strategic priorities in both our 5-Year Plan and our Research Strategy.

 The School is also proud of its dedicated PhD research space and separate postgraduate
 resource room with specialist library resources. All postgraduate students in law benefit from
 free printing in these rooms, as opposed to the normal student ‘pay-per-print’ services. The
 main University library, with all of the expected resources, is a three minute ‘inside’ walk from the
 School.

 The School is actively engaged and integrated into the University’s research communities of
 practice, policies, processes and procedures. The School is also closely aligned with Leeds
 Beckett’s Research and Enterprise Division, which provides research infrastructure and support
 to the University schools. With respect to Research and Ethical governance, the University’s
 Research and Enterprise Committee provides governance and assurance of all research activity.
 Chaired by the Deputy Vice Chancellor for Research and Enterprise, all School Directors of
 Research, including the Dean of the Law School, are ex-officio members. It is a sub-committee
 of Leeds Beckett’s Academic Board and has three further sub-committees:

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    ú   The Research Degrees Sub-Committee ensures transparency, fairness and
        consistency in the application of regulations and policies to PGR students.

    ú   The Research Ethics Sub-Committee oversees all matters relating to research ethics,
        including decision-making on particularly complex cases. This committee is supported
        by Local Research Ethics Coordinators (“LRECs") who manage most applications
        locally and report annually. An online system provides auditable ethics assurance.

    ú   The University Research Forum of all senior research leaders, including the Dean of
        the Law School, acts as an advisory body to the Research and Enterprise Committee
        on areas of strategic importance.

 This ensures that all Law School activities feed into the University to ensure appropriate support
 at all levels of management. The School plans to develop a professoriate over the next 5 years
 through both external recruitment and internal promotion. This will help to strengthen and
 promote all research activities within Unit 18.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The publication profile of the Law School has developed exponentially both in terms of the
 quantity and quality of published work since 2014, success that reflects significant increases in
 all types of research activity. Over the last 5 years, the Law School has developed a cohesive
 and collegiate academic body with a high quality and engaged research culture that permeates
 through all our targeted activities including: mentoring, research planning, research time
 allocation and conference attendance. All of our activities have been specifically designed to
 develop a research climate to lead to the growth of a research culture where research can thrive.
 Given that the Law returned 1 person and 4 outputs to REF 2014, and now we are returning 10
 staff who have produced 53 outputs, research has most certainly flourished.

 As can be seen from the outputs placed in the unit’s repository, many of these research outputs
 are based on collaborations between multiple researchers, both internal and external, thus
 creating an ever-expanding network that increases our reputation and extends our global reach
 across a widening community of practice. As we finalise our Law School Research Strategy for
 2021 - 2026, we pay particular attention to the extensive success we have had in implementing
 and meeting our strategic aims detailed in 2016: to create a research culture within the School;
 broaden the wider Research and Enterprise environment of the University; and be valued by the
 professional law and higher education sectors both nationally and internationally. We look
 forward to increasing our levels of contribution to the research environment via conference,
 symposia, workshop attendance, and paper delivery including keynotes.

 Increasing the visibility and credibility of the Law School’s research is Strategic Aim 5 of our
 Research Strategy. The targeted allocation of research time and funding for conferences and
 events, which is a key measure in our Research Strategy, has produced excellent results with
 conference attendance increasing exponentially. Papers have been presented at major national
 and international conferences, including high profile events such as the annual conference of the
 Association of Law Teachers, Bar Providers Conferences, the Socio-Legal Studies Association,
 the Society of Legal Scholars and the US Law and Society Association. Law School staff are
 increasingly invited to deliver keynotes at national and international events confirming that Law
 School staff are providing important contributions and impact to the discipline, nationally and

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 internationally.

 In addition to the Law School symposia outlined earlier, the School also introduced the highly
 successful ‘Law in Practice’ Guest Lecture Series which has hosted 12 speakers since January
 2016. The series, created in order to increase the School’s relevant impact in the region,
 provides a valuable addition to our research culture, community outreach and other research
 related activities. Prominent local and national speakers from a range of backgrounds and who
 represent various standpoints have agreed to speak. Lectures have been delivered by Sir Keir
 Starmer (as then Shadow Minister for Exiting the European Union), Shami Chakrabarti (as
 Director of Liberty), Caroline Goodwin QC (as Chair of the Criminal Bar Association), Professor
 Nick Hardwick (as Chair of the Probation Board) and Catherine Dixon, a Law School alumna, (as
 CEO of the Law Society of England and Wales). The series attracts significant local media
 attention and large audiences and provides opportunities to showcase the School’s work further
 increasing our reputation.

 Contributions through positions in learned associations, professional bodies and networks
 Many School staff make contributions to the academic community overall by serving on national
 committees or acting as journal editors. These appointments increase the visibility of the School
 (Strategic Aim 5), but also allow those members of staff to increase their levels of experience
 and enhance the School’s reputation throughout.

 Participation on committees or editorial boards by senior staff demonstrates progression
 possibilities to junior colleagues and also helps open doors to similar opportunities. For
 example, as a result of such staff involvement, two GTAs from the School were encouraged to
 stand, successfully, for election to the Committee of the Association of Law Teachers as ECR
 Representatives.

 Additionally, Law School staff are heavily involved in the legal education landscape and staff
 from the Law School have contributed to the Legal Education and Training Review, been panel
 members for the Subject Pilot of the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF), are consultants to
 the SRA and BSB, been a member of the BSB’s Future Bar Training Board, been a founding
 members of the UK Chapter for Therapeutic Jurisprudence, Chair of the Association of Law
 Teachers and sit on the Executive Committee for the Heads of UK Law Schools (CHULS).

 Outside of Academia, members of the Law School – given that many are professionally qualified
 – make a significant contribution to non-academic groups in the wider community. Since 2014,
 academic and administrative staff have been a Chair of a National Portfolio Organisations
 (“NPO”) for the Arts, trustee of two NPOs, members of Boards of Governors for Schools and
 Colleges. Our Law Clinic provides free legal advice to members of the public on a full range of
 issues and our outreach clinic working in Hunslett – one of the most deprived areas of Leeds –
 takes legal advice to the heart of where it is needed most.

 Leeds Law School’s future
 Research in the School has undergone a significant transformation since 2014 and the Law
 School’s research trajectory, environment, governance and impact is rapidly moving towards its
 full potential. Our strategic priorities are firmly focused on staff within the School and dedicated
 towards nurturing early career researchers and encouraging non-research active staff to engage
 with research, in order to build a rich, diverse, sustainable and collegiate research environment.
 In addition to recruiting academicians to support the school’s strategic aims, resources have
 been prioritised to increase the quality of our research work and broaden the experience of

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 different types of research for colleagues to best service our stakeholders and sector
 marketplace.

 Since REF 2014, the Law School has prioritised research related activities and embedded a
 strong research culture within all that we do. As we look towards REF 2028, the firm
 foundations we have established over the last 6 years will provide an excellent and exciting
 research future.




                                                                                          Page 16
