Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Northumbria at Newcastle

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 20 Social Work and Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 This submission from Northumbria University encompasses academic research from the
 disciplines of criminology, political science, social policy, social work and sociology, demonstrating
 particular expertise in crime and policing, insecurity, violence and harm, international
 development, international relations and power, culture and identities. We are submitting 79.1
 FTEs to REF2021, a substantial increase on the 30.6 returned in 2014 which was, in turn, a tripling
 of the 11 returned in 2008. Unit researchers engage with pressing economic, social and policy
 issues at a global, national and sub-national level, including: transnational organised crime; global
 south migration, transnationalism and development; the politics of the European Union;
 contemporary policing practice and policy in the UK, Africa and South America; disability,
 inequality and identity in the UK and East Asia; gendered violence and domestic abuse within the
 UK; mental health within the UK prison estate and mental health policy across NHS organisations
 in the UK; and de-industrialisation, social policy, disadvantage and crime in the north east of
 England. Our research has also had a clear impact beyond academia, in areas such as combatting
 international wildlife trafficking and animal trading, tackling food poverty and the extent of holiday
 hunger amongst UK schoolchildren and the creation of the Borderlands Inclusive Growth Deal, a
 significant economic intervention on both sides of the English-Scottish border.


 Research and Impact Strategy
 Our unit research and impact strategy is best viewed within the context of the university strategy
 and the overall university mission since 2008 wherein, as articulated within the REF 5a
 (Institutional) Environment Statement, Northumbria embarked upon a transformational journey to
 place research at its heart, with the aim of becoming a ‘research-rich…University…with a global
 reputation for academic excellence’ (Vision 2030). The unit shares this university mission which
 sees academic staff research as all-pervading. Thus, we place high-quality social work and social
 policy research and impact work at the centre of everything that we do. This enables us to
 investigate and influence significant and contemporary societal challenges, whilst our research
 also shapes the full range of our academic activities.


 Our submissions to this UoA in 2008 and 2014 captured two progressive stages in our
 development as an emerging group of social work and social policy researchers. REF2021 will
 show that we have successfully met our strategic aims for research and impact for the period
 2013-20. As set out in our 2014 submission, these were to: further develop research centres and



                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 clusters; maintain and strengthen links with user communities and policy-makers at local, national
 and international levels and strengthen our impact on policy; deliver continued growth in the quality
 of our research publications; further increase the number and quality of research students; and to
 expand research council income. We are now a mature unit that has made dramatic progress in
 the volume and quality of our research, publications, impact and research students, as well as in
 the equality and diversity of our research processes, since 2014. Key features are the growth in
 our research expertise within criminology, the development of our research centres and clusters,
 a transformation in the gender composition of our unit, an expansion of major research council, as
 opposed to contract research, income and stronger, direct impact upon policy beyond academia.
 This has all been enabled by a strategic university investment in the unit through staff recruitment
 and through a sustained mentoring and development of existing staff by senior researchers. Our
 growth in research and impact volume, quality and diversity is illustrated by:


    -   The unit now consisting of 82 staff (79.1 FTEs) with significant responsibility for research,
        within which 60% are female as compared to the 75% male 2014 submission and where
        there has been a threefold increase in BAME representation;


    -   Annual PhD enrolments increasing from 35 in 2014, which had increased from 11 in 2008,
        to 54 in the current cycle, with PhD completions growing from 24 in REF2014 (which was
        a doubling of the 10 in RAE 2008) to 60 in REF2021;

    -   Research funding awards of over £6.2 million in this current cycle, doubling those of REF
        2014, within which UKRI research council income has more than doubled and has
        increased fourfold in the last two years of the REF2021 period. Funding is now drawn from,
        among others, ESRC, NERC, AHRC, Leverhulme, British Academy, Newton Fund and
        UKRI GCRF. During this REF period, we have also hosted our first British Academy
        International Visiting Professor, Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellow and AHRC DTP
        funded PhD student via the Northern Bridge consortium;

    -   The significant social, economic, cultural and political impact of unit research, which is
        detailed throughout this document.

 Whilst we see research assessment exercises as instruments to capture our significant research
 development since 2008 rather than as ends in themselves, it is worth noting that a key, specific
 university objective following RAE2008 was to grow REF research volume and quality, to double
 the number of staff submitted, as an indicator of a ‘research-rich’ university. The unit achieved this
 in 2014. A focus upon ‘research power with quality’ remains central to the university strategy and
 mission. Our 2021 unit strategy has focussed upon growing research and impact volume and
 quality within distinctive areas of expertise which were identified within our 2014 submission as


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 emerging specialisms: criminology, particularly policing and transnational organised crime;
 international   development,      specifically   global   south   migration,   transnationalism    and
 development; insecurity, violence and harm, in particular gendered domestic abuse and de-
 industrialisation, neo-liberalisation, social policy and crime; power, culture and identities,
 specifically disability, inequality and identity, food poverty, mental health policy and social theory;
 international relations, especially the politics of the EU, gendered international political
 organisations and the rising powers of East and South-East Asia. Our considerable investment in
 new staff has been within these specialisms, whilst we have also resourced research centres and
 clusters, as well as national and international, academic and non-academic, research
 collaborations in these areas, the detail of which is provided below.


 We have delivered our strategy through an inclusive and collegial research management process
 and culture which encourages, mentors and enables all academic staff to be active in research
 and impact work, to pursue their own individual research interests, as well to work collaboratively
 with partners (academic and non-academic) within the institution and externally (regionally,
 nationally and internationally). Continual growth in the volume and quality of our research and
 impact, alongside the active promotion of equality and diversity within research processes and
 research careers, is the driving force behind staff recruitment, staff development and academic
 promotions within the unit. Our overriding aim is to enable all staff, whatever their career stage
 and individual circumstances, to maximise their research potential and to fully develop their
 research careers. This is particularly exemplified by our submission to REF2021 of a number of
 unit staff (e.g. Biddle, Cohen, Davies, Dyer, Lewis, R., McInnes, Ramshaw, Ridley, Soppitt),
 each in an academic post for over 20 years, who have not previously been entered into an RAE
 or REF exercise and who have benefitted from research workload, mentoring and sabbatical
 schemes to produce high quality outputs in leading journals and significant research impact.
 Davies and Soppitt are authors of two separate Impact Case Studies submitted from this unit.


 Unit Context and Structure
 Staff within the unit are drawn from three university departments – 57.1 FTEs from the Department
 of Social Sciences, five FTE from the Department of Arts, within the Faculty of Arts, Design and
 Social Sciences, and 17 FTE from the Department of Social Work, Education and Community
 Wellbeing (SWECW) within the Faculty of Health and Life Sciences. Research and impact work is
 organised through two university multi-disciplinary research themes (MDRTs), Global
 Development Futures and Integrated Health and Social Care, two university research centres,
 the Centre for International Development and the Centre for Crime and Policing, one cross-
 university research network, the Gender, Violence and Abuse Research Network (GVARN), a
 cross-university research, training and evaluation group, the Healthy Living Lab, and three
 research clusters titled Insecurity, Violence and Harm, Power, Culture and Identities and


                                                                                                   Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International Relations. These groups have played a central role in delivering our research and
 impact strategy.


 The unit’s submission to REF2014 identified four research clusters: ‘International Development’;
 ‘Offenders and Offending’; ‘Civil Society and Citizenship’; ‘International Public Policy’ All have
 been strengthened and have benefitted from significant investment, with two (International
 Development and Offenders and Offending) growing into inter-disciplinary, cross-university
 research centres (Centre for International Development, Global Development Futures MDRT
 and the Centre for Crime and Policing) with strong international profiles. We have sharpened
 the focus of the Civil Society and Citizenship and International Public Policy clusters to more fully
 reflect, and communicate, the research and impact expertise of the unit through the development
 of the Insecurity, Violence and Harm, Power, Culture and Identities and International
 Relations clusters. We have also seen the growth, during this REF cycle, of the Gender, Violence
 and Abuse Research Network (GVARN), which was founded by staff (Lewis, R., Oak, Vincent)
 within this unit and involves research collaboration with colleagues in law and business, and the
 Healthy Living Lab which investigates and enables public health interventions and is led by staff
 from this unit (Defeyter and Stretesky), while also being part of the Integrated Health and Social
 Care MDRT (led by Lhussier) which has enabled contributions from other areas of the university,
 such as psychology and sport and exercise.


 All of our research centres and research clusters have regular seminar series (and in the case of
 the Centre for Crime and Policing a Public Lecture Series) involving external and internal
 speakers, as well as more informal meetings where staff members present and discuss initial
 research ideas and work in progress. They also act as a space for the development of
 collaborative, interdisciplinary research and impact projects, funding applications, publications and
 PhD supervision. Membership of our research centres and clusters is intentionally fluid, with many
 staff and postgraduate researchers belonging to more than one group and periodically changing
 affiliation where this fits the development of their research interests. Our centres and clusters
 operate to encourage synergy and cross-pollination of ideas across disciplines and to facilitate
 cross-disciplinary engagement.Examples of interdisciplinarity within this unit, and between UoA20
 and other REF units across the university, include: research collaboration, such as
 Hensengerth’s (International Relations) and Baillie-Smith’s (UoA14) research on the
 development of global long-term partnerships to enable sustainable futures for people living in
 river deltas in Vietnam, Bangladesh and India, part of a UKRI GCRF-funded Living Deltas
 Research Hub; joint publications from Brandon (Social Work), Cassidy (UoA14), Dyer and Ridley
 (both Criminology) on mental health within the penal system, as well as Biddle (Criminology),
 Brandon and Daly (Politics and International Development) on volunteering and philanthropy
 within learning disability charities; impact work from Defeyter (Social Work), Graham (UoA3) and


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Stretesky (Criminology) on food poverty, and from Gibson (UoA27) and Ralph, S on media
 representations of girls and young women and its relationship to self-worth and well-being; and
 joint PhD supervision across disciplinary boundaries, for example by McInnes (Social Work) and
 Lewis,   R.   (Sociology),   Davies     (Criminology)   and    Southall    (Social   Work),   Cassidy
 (Geography/UoA14) and Taylor (Sociology/International Development) and Cieslik (Sociology)
 and Holt (Arts/UoA32).


 Centre for International Development and Global Development Futures
 The former research cluster in International Development has grown into the Centre for
 International Development (CID) which has, in turn, led to the creation of a University MDRT -
 Global Development Futures (GDF) - both led by Baillie-Smith. Staff within CID and GDF have
 secured significant research grant income (in excess of £3 million), particularly via GCRF funding
 streams, work closely with academic and non-academic partners in Africa, South America, South-
 East Asia and South Asia on key global challenges (e.g. poverty alleviation, environmental
 degradation, civil society), produce high quality research outputs and deliver research impact.
 There are 10 University Vice-Chancellor’s (post-doctoral) Fellows (VCFs), a Leverhulme Early
 Career Fellow, 10 Professors and 12 Associate Professors attached to the MDRT, which also has
 a senior Research Manager to support research, funding applications, communication and
 administrative activities. Both CID and GDF are inherently inter-disciplinary and although
 originating from this unit in REF2014, it now encompasses staff working across the disciplines of
 social science, geography, business, law, engineering, psychology, computer and information
 sciences, arts, design and humanities. Consequently, staff located within CID and GDF are being
 submitted to a number of UoAs for REF2021.


 The Centre for International Development has four main thematic areas of expertise and those
 associated with one of these – ‘mobilities’ – who work principally within the disciplines of sociology,
 criminology, social work and social policy (Dedotsi, Frilund, Hall, Hwang, Peck, Sutherland,
 Taylor, Wyatt) are part of this UoA20 submission and include three Professors (Sutherland,
 Taylor, Wyatt) and one Associate Professor (Hall). This group of staff have received major
 awards during this REF cycle from ESRC, AHRC, The Leverhulme Trust and The British Academy
 and produced research outputs in leading international journals and monographs, such as
 Frilund’s analysis of Tibetan migration to Nepal, India and the global north and Sutherland’s
 work on migration, belonging and representations of ethnic minorities in South-East Asia. Frilund
 was one of three VCF appointments to the unit during this REF cycle.


 The mobilities team also collaborate with international partners in migration, transnationalism and
 mobility research. For example, Wyatt’s work on international wildlife trafficking, animal
 conservation and transnational animal rights involves partnerships with leading global authorities


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in this area, such as Sollund (Norway) and Arroyo-Quiroz (Mexico), collaborations which led
 directly to the award of an AHRC Leadership Fellowship for Wyatt in 2018, and further awards
 from the Norwegian Research Council and the Newton Fund, a Newton Advanced Fellowship, to
 further these international research partnerships. Taylor’s research collaboration with the globally
 recognised Centre for Development Studies (CDS) in Kerala, India through his work on
 international migration and inclusive development in India led directly to the award of a British
 Academy International Visiting Fellowship for Rajan, the leading authority on the international
 migration-development nexus in India, at Northumbria. This, in turn, led to further collaboration
 between Taylor, Rajan, the Institute for Development Studies (IDS), Sussex and the South Asia
 Institute at SOAS, as well as leading directly to the recruitment of three high quality PhD
 researchers (Panicker, Shajan and Suresh), all working on the Indian migration-development
 nexus, from CDS to Northumbria, the AHRC Northern Bridge PhD studentship award to Stevenson
 (which has Rajan as an external consultant and CDS as the fieldwork host) and the award of a
 Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowship to Peck in 2019 for a project examining the relationship
 between diasporic groups, civil society and development in India and Jamaica.


 Centre for Crime and Policing
 The 2014 research cluster in ‘Offenders and Offending’ was a broad criminology research cluster.
 Given the significant increase in criminology staff within the unit from 2014 to 2021 (from eight to
 32), we now have two, more focussed research groups – the Centre for Crime and Policing and
 the research cluster Insecurity, Violence and Harm. Building upon one aspect of our
 criminological expertise identified in REF2014, policing, we have invested heavily to develop the
 Centre for Crime and Policing (led by Rowe). This is an inter-disciplinary research centre,
 principally working across social sciences, law and forensic science, but largely staffed by
 criminologists from this unit (e.g. Akinlabi, Davies, Dresser, Francis, Malik, Miranda, Oxburgh,
 Ramshaw, Rangel, Soppitt, Stockdale, Wiper).


 In 2014, four staff within our submission were policing specialists, with one Professor and no
 Associate Professors. In 2021 we have 14 policing experts, five of whom are Professors (Rowe,
 Davies, Francis, Oxburgh, Soppitt), with one Associate Professor (Ramshaw). Staff working in
 this group have secured significant funding, in excess of £2 million, particularly from the N8
 Policing Research Partnership and the ESRC and are producing high-quality research outputs,
 including Rowe’s work on race, policing and crime, Wiper’s on policing human trafficking and
 Dresser’s analysis of counter-terrorism strategies. Staff within the centre are also delivering
 significant research impact, for example Malik’s research on police authority and police
 governance in Scotland conducted in partnership with, and directly influencing the activities of,
 Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of Constabulary in Scotland (HMICS). There are also two University
 post-doctoral VCFs (Lewis, D.M. and Weinroth) and an ESRC post-doctoral research fellow


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Ralph, L.) attached to the Centre for Crime and Policing, carrying out empirical research,
 producing high quality research outputs and leading/supporting research funding applications in
 this area, as well as a Research Assistant (Weedy) to support research, impact, funding and
 administrative activities. The Centre also has an international focus, as evidenced by Rangel’s
 work on policing in Mexico and Akinlabi’s on Nigeria.


 Insecurity, Violence and Harm
 A further research cluster has also been developed amongst criminology, sociology, social work
 and social policy staff, focussed around the themes of Insecurity, Violence and Harm. This
 primarily builds upon the expertise and interests of non-policing staff from the broader ‘Offenders
 and Offending’ research cluster from 2014, for example Cook, Laing and Wyatt. We have also
 invested heavily in developing this area of research and impact expertise, particularly through the
 addition of experts in criminological theory and its application to understand the interrelationships
 between insecurity, violence and harm within the UK (e.g. Raymen, Tudor, Winlow) and
 transnationally (Hall), leading figures within the study of green/environmental harm and violence
 (e.g. Stephens-Griffin, Stretesky) which has complemented the existing expertise and
 international reputation of Wyatt, and expertise on different aspects of the prison estate
 (particularly children/family experiences and mental health), for example the addition of Atkin and
 Disney to build on the existing research of Brandon. The mentoring and development of existing
 staff has also been important to the growth of this cluster, for example Davies, Lewis, R. and
 Vincent working in the area of gender, violence and abuse, who have since been joined by Walker
 and Wiper researching honour crime (and who are also an important part of GVARN), and Biddle
 and Dyer who examine insecurity, violence and harm within the penal system. 30 members of the
 unit are attached to this research cluster, including three Professors (Stretesky, Winlow, Wyatt).
 It is led by Farrand-Carrapico, an Associate Professorial appointment within this REF cycle, with
 expertise in European Union internal security, focussing particularly on the governance of
 organised crime and cybersecurity.The cluster also includes an ESRC/NERC post-doctoral
 research fellow (Szolucha).


 Power, Culture and Identities and International Relations
 Both the ‘Civil Society and Citizenship’ and ‘International Public Policy’ research clusters from
 2014 have been refocussed in order to build upon research and impact strengths identified in 2014
 – e.g. the work of Stephenson on class and gendered inequalities within the workplace, the
 research of Shaw on regional political and policy inequalities and divides, Hardill’s work on age,
 inequality and exclusion, Hwang’s expertise on disability, inequality and identity and Haack’s and
 Hensengerth’s work within international relations. Consequently, the two clusters from 2014
 named above are now focussed around Power, Culture and Identities (under the leadership of



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Casey and Coleman-Fountain, new appointments within this REF cycle) and International
 Relations (under the leadership of Cerny, also a new appointment) respectively.


 We have invested in staff recruitment and in the mentoring and development of all staff in order to
 develop the above research clusters. For example, the Power, Culture and Identities cluster has
 seen the addition of both Coleman-Fountain and Oak, with their expertise in disability, sexuality
 and identity, Bowman, Hoult, Luby and Addison, recognised authorities on the study of
 educational inequalities and disadvantage, Ralph, S. and Domeneghetti, ECRs working on the
 relationship between media representation, power and inequality, Casey, whose focus is upon
 classed and gendered inequalities and identities in consumption, Southall and Robson’s
 analyses of contemporary social work with UK children and families, and both Reynolds’ and
 Crossley’s work on UK social policy in relation to social exclusion and poverty. The cluster has
 also seen the mentoring and development of Cieslik, now an expert on the sociology and social
 policy of happiness and identity, and Ragnedda who works on digital inclusion/exclusion. This
 particular research cluster involves 35 staff, including 5 Professors and 1 EU-funded post-doctoral
 Research Fellow (Pegan), and it has been successful in attracting high profile Visiting Professors
 to Northumbria, via applications to the University’s Visiting Professorship/Fellowship scheme,
 such as the 2019 appointment (for a 3 year period) of Imogen Tyler (Lancaster), who will be
 delivering a number of seminars and a public lecture, as well as informal group discussions with
 staff within, the cluster. Staff from this cluster have also led (Defeyter and Stretesky) and
 contributed to (Foster, Harding, Vincent) the development of the Healthy Living Lab. The
 International Relations cluster has developed from the existing work of Haack on gendered
 inequalities and mobilities within international political organisations, Hensengerth on Chinese
 and South East Asian foreign and environmental policies and Shaw on comparative European
 public policy, through the addition of Arana and Farrand-Carrapico with their work on EU policy,
 security and governance, Cerny’s expertise on middle-east politics and IR and Jackson’s
 research on gender and Islamophobia. Also important has been the mentoring and development
 of existing staff, such as Mullen’s work on EU politics and integration and Basthard-Bogain's
 analysis of French politics, terrorism and human rights.


 Research Impact
 Links with user communities and policy makers have always been integral to the work of this unit,
 however, as noted above, strengthening the non-academic policy impact of our research has been
 a significant part of our research strategy within this cycle. We have particularly and strategically
 supported research which tackles, and directly intervenes within, some of the most pressing social,
 cultural and policy issues within contemporary society at a sub-national, national and global level.
 This has shaped the six submitted impact case studies from the unit, which draw upon and develop
 our areas of expertise identified above: gendered violence and domestic abuse; crime and


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 policing; transnational organised crime; mobilities; UK social policy in relation to disadvantage and
 social exclusion. The development of the impact in these case studies has been resourced by staff
 impact sabbaticals, provision for impact activities on staff workloads, research impact research
 assistants, a UoA20 Impact Lead (Shaw) and, since 2014, support from a dedicated impact team
 within the University’s Research and Innovation Services (RIS), with specific impact officers
 (aiding in the identification of research impact and the collection of evidence) allocated to particular
 University Faculties. The submitted case studies are:


    -   Davies’ research on uncovering, understanding and communicating the multi-faceted and
        interwoven elements of victimisation in gender-based violence which has directly led to the
        Domestic Abuse Whole Systems Approach (DAWSA) being adopted by multiple UK police
        forces – Northumbria, Cleveland, Durham, North Yorkshire, West Yorkshire and
        Humberside. The research has also informed the most recent Domestic Abuse Bill
        currently proceeding through parliament to become law;


    -   Defeyter and Stretesky’s research on ‘holiday hunger’ which has directly influenced the
        development and expansion of the UK government’s Holiday Activities and Food
        Programme (HAF) and the allocation of £20,400,000 by the Department for Education
        (DfE) to provide healthy food and enriching activities for 1.1 million disadvantaged children.
        This research has also directly shaped both the UK government’s response, via the DfE
        and the Cabinet Office, for food security during the COVID-19 pandemic and the ‘Rashford
        Campaign’;


    -   The work of Ralph, S., an ECR, into the representation of girls in media culture which has
        led to the creation and development of Girl-Kind, a creative programme utilising media-
        making to advance self-worth and well-being among young women (aged 11-16) from
        disadvantaged backgrounds in the north east of England. Girl-Kind has then directly
        shaped the national policies of Plan International UK, and the Young Women’s Film
        Academy;


    -   Shaw’s work which identified and created The Borderlands Initiative, a new political and
        institutional space for economic intervention across the English-Scottish border. Working
        in partnership with local authorities (e.g. Northumberland, Dumfries and Galloway, Carlisle
        and Cumbria), local MPs, the UK and Scottish governments, Shaw’s research has led
        directly to the £394 million 2019 Borderlands Inclusive Growth Deal;




                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    -   Soppitt’s research on the use of work as an agent of social integration, recovery and
        desistance from crime, via The Skill Mill, which has directly influenced youth justice policy
        across 10 UK cities and three major European countries;


    -   Wyatt’s work on wildlife trafficking and animal trading which has directly influenced both
        national (e.g. UK government, Scottish government and UK Charity) international (e.g.EU
        and WWF) policy.


 It is important to recognise that these case studies are not exhaustive of the significant impact
 work within the unit during the REF period. Research impact is embedded throughout our unit and
 is a key element of our staff recruitment, research mentoring, workloading and staff
 development/promotion processes. Examples of research impact beyond our case studies are
 provided in Section 4 below.


 Future Strategic Objectives
 Having achieved the aspirations identified in 2014, the unit is extremely well-placed to meet its
 strategic objectives in the period beyond REF2021. These are:


    -   To further develop our research clusters and centres, enhancing our expertise in crime and
        policing, global development, international relations, power, culture and identity and
        insecurity, violence and harm. We will invest further in staff recruitment to, and the
        mentoring and development of existing researchers within, these centres and clusters.
        Indeed, we have continued to recruit new staff to these since the REF2021 census date.
        Future recruitment will focus upon investment in high-quality researchers with specific
        areas of expertise in: social and criminological theory; transnational organised crime; social
        work with, and social policies relating to, disadvantaged UK children and families; migration
        and development; the politics of the EU; policing; disability; gendered violence and
        domestic abuse policy; and mental health policy;


    -   To further develop our inter-disciplinary work, particularly through further cross-university
        collaborations with geography (global development), law (crime and policing; gendered
        violence and domestic abuse; politics of the EU) and health (mental health policy; social
        work with, and social policies relating to, disadvantaged children and families; disability);


    -   To recruit a higher proportion of externally funded postgraduate researchers, building upon
        our success with global development students through the AHRC’s Northern Bridge
        consortium, to also encompass crime and policing, international relations, social work,




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        social policy and sociology research students through the expansion of applications to
        Northern Bridge and through further engagement with NINE, an ESRC DTP;

    -   To further enrich our research culture through the infusion of an increased number of
        visiting scholars with the above areas of expertise;

    -   To further expand our engagement, esteem activities and impact working within the above
        areas of expertise and thereby further increase our direct policy influence and our benefit
        to regional, national and international partners, publics, learned societies and the wider
        economy, culture and society at sub-national, national and global level;


    -   To extend our particularly strong practice in ECR and mid-career researcher (MCR)
        development to enhance effective peer support and research mentoring at Professoriate
        level;

    -   All of the above will enable us to continue our strategic objectives of delivering continued
        growth in the quality of our research publications, further increasing the number and quality
        of research students and further expanding research council income within our areas of
        expertise.


 Open access and ethical research practice
 We are committed to making our findings freely available to the widest audience possible in
 compliance with the principle of open access. Staff have been briefed on Open Access
 requirements through a series of OA roadshows led by the University’s Research & Innovation
 Services (RIS), and through regular email reminders from the UoA Lead. 99.1% of our submitted
 outputs published after April 1st 2016 meet the REF open access policy requirements. Research
 carried out in the Unit complies with Universities UK’s ‘Concordat to Support Research Integrity’,
 and we promote good research practice with regard to matters such as plagiarism, the impartiality
 of peer review, data management protocols, and research ethics and governance. The University
 operates an online research ethics system which requires researchers to assess the level of risk
 posed by their projects. This is overseen by both Departmental and Faculty Ethics Directors. No
 research project can be undertaken by staff or PGRs without an ethical audit, a peer review
 process, having been conducted. All researchers undergo ethics training every three years and
 are not permitted to supervise doctoral students unless their training log is up-to-date, whilst also
 being guided by the ethical guidelines and standards of relevant professional associations and
 learned societies, such as Social Work England and the British Sociological Association (BSA).
 Research ethics expertise is widespread throughout the unit. For example, Rowe is Ethics Director
 across the Faculty of Arts, Design and Social Sciences, while Stretesky was a founder member
 (2014-17) of the Ethics Committee of the American Society of Criminology.


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing Strategy
 The Unit grew considerably during the previous REF period, tripling in size. 75% of those
 submitted in 2014 were new recruits and 20% were ECRs. This represented a significant
 investment in research. Our staffing strategy during the 2021 cycle has been to retain and develop
 staff with significant responsibility for research, develop existing staff who were not previously
 research active to become so, and to recruit excellent researchers where they add value and
 diversity to what we already do within our research centres and clusters. 38 new appointments
 (28 female) have been made to the unit since 2014, with seven (4 female) at Professor/Associate
 Professor which, combined with the internal promotion of 12 existing unit staff (7 female) to
 Professor/Associate Professor during the REF cycle, has significantly bolstered our research
 leadership and mentoring capacity. 10% of our current submission are ECRs. From REF2014 to
 REF2021, we have seen a net increase of 166% in the number of Social Work and Social Policy
 staff (from 31 to 82) with significant responsibility for research.


 Research and impact excellence lies at the heart of our recruitment process, with a separate
 research interview panel, involving the relevant departmental Research Director and the UoA20
 Lead (Taylor) who all closely review candidate research outputs, impact work and potential
 contribution to the research environment, being held for every academic post. Consequently, we
 have replaced those who have departed with excellent new researchers within our areas of
 expertise. For example, Ongaro was replaced by Sutherland at Professorial level in Politics,
 allowing us to continue our development of international and comparative politics and policy as an
 area of growth and excellence but also with links to our established global development, mobilities
 and international relations research. Meer, Ashutosh and Baker, who departed Sociology and
 Politics following the 2014 REF were replaced by Casey, Coleman-Fountain and Cerny at L/SL
 level, the former two further developing our sociological interests and excellence in power, culture
 and identities, the latter allowing us to expand our expertise in international relations. Roulstone
 and Duschinsky were replaced by Defeyter and Hoult (both at Professorial level) within Social
 Work and Social Policy, whose work on food poverty and educational inequalities respectively, fits
 with our Power, Culture and Identities research cluster specifically and takes its focus in new
 directions. Jones departed from Criminology following REF2014 and was replaced by Hall, to
 further develop our interests and excellence in transnational organised crime and mobilities.


 Since 2014, we have also recruited excellent new, additional staff, for example Stretesky and
 Winlow, two new Professors of Criminology, globally recognised for their research within areas
 that we were looking to grow from within our existing staff base – green criminology, environmental
 harm and activism, and criminological theory, insecurity, violence and harm. We have substantially
 added to our existing expertise and critical mass of research excellence in policing, for example

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with the recruitment in this cycle of Addison, Akinlabi, Dresser, Fohring, Malik, Miranda,
 Oxburgh, Ramshaw, Rangel, Stockdale and Wiper. In our submission to REF2014, there was
 one Criminology Professor (Rowe), in 2021 there are eight (Davies, Francis, Oxburgh, Rowe,
 Soppitt, Stretesky, Winlow, Wyatt) across the Centre for Crime and Policing and the research
 cluster Insecurity, Violence and Harm. Davies, Soppitt and Wyatt achieved Professorial status
 within this REF period through our internal promotion process, within which research excellence,
 and an external assessment of this, is a central criterion. Neither Davies nor Soppitt were
 submitted to REF2014. Their current status is a testament to our research mentoring and staff
 development processes (see below).


 Staff Development
 The average research and impact workload allowance across all staff with significant responsibility
 for research within the unit is 40% of their total academic workload. These researchers have also
 benefited enormously within the REF cycle from access to a research sabbatical once in every
 seven semesters. Most staff submitted to REF2021 in this unit have had a research sabbatical
 during the REF cycle, with some staff having more than one. 88 research sabbaticals have been
 taken by staff within the unit since 2014. Staff on fractional contracts have equal access to
 sabbaticals. The Unit has sponsored six colleagues in this cycle in making a case for an
 ‘accelerated sabbatical’ where the sabbatical semester is brought forward in light of a pressing
 publication deadline. The Unit also ensures that staff receive the full value of teaching buy-out
 from funded projects and that staff are not penalized for funding success, for example enabling
 access to research sabbaticals in addition to teaching buy-out for research. Workload allowances
 are also provided for the research leadership roles of Departmental Research Director (30%),
 UoA20 Lead (30%), UoA20 Impact Lead (25%) and Departmental PGR Director (20%), while all
 Professor and Associate Professor workloads contain an allowance for research mentoring.


 In REF2014, we submitted seven researchers who met the REF ECR definition, and the Unit has
 since then invested significantly in the development of this cohort of researchers, and further ECRs
 who have joined since 2014, such as Coleman-Fountain, Dedotsi, Disney, Mailk, Stephens-
 Griffin, Wiper. The University runs an ECR Forum and the ECR voice is influential through
 University and Faculty research committees and via implementation of feedback from the Careers
 in Research Online Survey (CROS). Several of our ECRs have benefitted from an ECR
 Development Programme delivered by RIS, which introduces ECRs to the funding landscape,
 funding application preparation, impact and the larger contexts of academic research. Additional
 recent ECR events supported by RIS have included a ‘world café’ style event on developing our
 research culture, and a researcher resilience event facilitated by an external consultant. The Unit
 upholds the principles set out in the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 and in the ‘Review’ of the Concordat published in June 2018. We are now consciously bringing


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Concordat to the attention of our doctoral students; and have recently introduced mandatory
 training for PIs to ensure they create an appropriate developmental culture for PDRAs on their
 projects.


 All new members of staff must complete a probationary period of 12 months (or 22 months where
 the staff member has not held a permanent academic contract for three years), and this includes
 the satisfactory completion of research objectives in relation to outputs, impact, funding
 applications and environment. Probationary staff and ECRs have a reduced teaching load, and
 we aim where practicable to accelerate the access of ECRs to sabbaticals, subject to satisfactory
 probation. ECRs are also permitted to act as principal supervisors to PhD students, providing they
 are embedded in an experienced supervisory team with three completions overall, and in which a
 strong mentoring dynamic is operative. RIS provides specific training for ECRs on research
 funding applications to appropriate schemes and the unit actively encourages collaboration
 between ECRs and senior research staff in relation to funding applications, research projects and
 research outputs. Our development of ECRs has been very successful. For example, Wyatt,
 appointed in the last REF cycle and who met the REF ECR definition at the census point, has
 been promoted to a Professorship and has been in receipt of an AHRC Leadership Fellowship
 (2018-20) during this current REF period.


 The unit has also participated and invested in the University’s staff PhD programme, wherein a
 member of staff committing to undertake a part-time PhD receives a workload allowance (30% of
 overall workload) and is supervised by a senior unit researcher. We have seen 11 PhD
 completions within the unit through this programme, including: Irving, supervised by Harding;
 Southall and Lonbay, both supervised by Brandon; and Reynolds, supervised by Hardill.


 Central to our staff development strategy is our research mentoring, which we have continued to
 develop over the current REF cycle. All staff are allocated a research mentor (a Professor or
 Associate Professor), drawn from their appropriate research centre or cluster. The choice of
 research mentor is negotiable with the mentee. Individual preferences (including for same-sex
 mentoring and cross-disciplinary mentoring) are always accommodated. Interactions between
 mentor and mentee occur on a monthly basis, with mentors expected to read outputs, funding
 application drafts, and other work on request. We see a key role of the mentor as being to
 challenge the mentee’s level of ambition, in terms of aiming at the most prestigious outlets for their
 research, with the greatest international reach. The unit consciously guards against the mentoring
 relationship drifting towards a line managerial one, with mentoring being seen as responsive and
 developmental rather than directive. Mentors, in conjunction with line managers, are expected to
 help staff members map themselves against the promotion criteria and create a personalized route
 map for promotion, which, in turn, map on to the strategic research objectives of the unit. Further


                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 examples of the success of our staff development and research mentoring include the promotions
 of Casey, Hensengerth, Lewis, R. and Ramshaw to Associate Professor, and Brandon and
 Taylor to Professor, within this REF cycle. Hensengerth was an ECR in REF2014, while Lewis,
 R. and Ramshaw were not submitted. Our future strategic objectives (outlined in Section 1) will
 be clearly communicated to all unit staff by the UoA Lead, heads of department and research
 centre/cluster leads, and then translated into individual aims for staff within the unit by research
 mentors for discussion in monthly meetings with research mentees. We highlight in our future
 strategic plan a commitment to apply our good ECR and MCR development practices to more
 senior levels. We are especially conscious of the difficulty of retaining research momentum faced
 by staff who may be moving in and out of leadership roles. Thus, for the first time, we are also
 recognising development needs within the professoriate. In keeping with this, the unit has recently
 introduced mentoring for all professors, making a clear statement that progression within
 professorial bands requires the same developmental support as promotion at other levels.


 The unit has created a supportive culture which acknowledges success in research and celebrates
 achievement. Colleagues are kept informed of developments in the external research climate and
 reminded of the unit’s own research objectives through departmental away days and the research
 sections of departmental communications. All funding awards are publicized via an email from the
 relevant research director or head of department. Large grant awards will also be recognized
 through an email from the Faculty Pro-Vice Chancellor to the whole Faculty. It is conventional for
 all PhD viva successes to be marked by a department-wide email from the supervisor
 congratulating the student. Significant publications are listed and communicated via subject and
 research centre/cluster newsletters. Relevant research groups host book launches to recognize
 groups of associated publications, for example an edited collection from Lewis, R. was showcased
 in the ‘Gendered Subjects Book Launch’ in February 2019. The successful hosting of symposia
 and conferences (including ones run by PGRs) is always recognized by a public email from
 relevant research directors, heads of department and PGR directors thanking the organizer. The
 unit also incentivizes research activity. For example, grant holders benefit from the university’s
 QR reward scheme which provides a small proportion of the grant overhead (with a pro rata
 departmental contribution in the case of charitable funding) through a personal research account,
 to be used on research-related travel or materials. Where a research event generates a surplus,
 we ensure that some of this is ringfenced for further use by the successful organizers.


 Our staffing strategy and staff development processes have enabled the unit to deliver the key
 strategic objectives set out in 2014. For example, we have seen a significant growth in the quality
 of research outputs during this REF cycle. Staff within the unit are now publishing within the central
 peer-reviewed disciplinary journals associated within our areas of expertise, including: The British
 Journal of Social Work; The European Journal of Social Work; Child and Family Social Work;


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Disability and Society; Sociology; The Sociological Review; The British Journal of Sociology;
 Current Sociology; The British Journal of Criminology; The European Journal of Criminology;
 Theoretical Criminology; Mobilities; Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies; The British Journal
 of Political Science; The British Journal of Politics and International Relations.


 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 The Unit is strongly committed to an equality and diversity agenda, and to fostering an inclusive
 and empowering culture. All departments have EDI Directors, roles which have a workload
 allowance of 30%. Northumbria has been awarded an institutionally wide Bronze Athena SWAN
 Award. SWECW have submitted, and Social Sciences (led by Casey) and Arts are currently
 preparing, an application in this category. All interviews for jobs or studentships are conducted by
 mixed gender panels, and all participants undergo fair selection training. Our staff recruitment
 during this REF period has been 70% female, as we have sought to address a gender imbalance
 in the unit from 2014 when the submission was 75% male. Our 2021 FTE submission is 60%
 female and the majority of our submitted outputs have been authored by women. In 2014, one
 senior member of the unit (at Professor or Associate Professor level) from six was female. In 2021,
 this is 12 from 20.


 Relevant departments have set aside full away days for all members to undertake unconscious
 bias training and to participate in a wide-ranging discussion of EDI matters relating to our
 disciplines, research and the REF. The University’s Code of Practice used in preparing this
 submission was developed with an underpinning commitment to fairness and EDI. LGBTQ and
 Women’s staff networks were launched in 2019. In addition, information is regularly circulated on
 upcoming regional and national events and webinars exploring, for instance, the implications of
 racial inequality for higher education. A BAME staff network was established in 2020 to provide a
 confidential environment for all staff who self-identify as coming from a Black, Asian or other
 Minority Ethnic Background. This network, along with the Race Equality Charter Consultative
 Group, plays an important advisory role in the diagnostic work and action planning of the
 Northumbria Race Equality Charter team with its commitment to understanding, removing or
 overcoming racial inequalities at Northumbria. BAME representation within our FTE and output
 submission has grown from 3% in 2014 to 13% in 2021. Our diversity is also reflected in the
 international origins of 25% of our submitted staff,18% from Europe and 7% from non-European
 countries who contribute 24% and 10% of our submitted outputs respectively. Support was
 provided to reassure and guide EU staff throughout the Brexit process, including refunding of
 application fees for EU colleagues seeking permanent residence in the UK or British Citizenship.
 Northumbria also provides immigration costs for international colleagues and operates an
 Immigration Fees Short Term Loan Scheme for those needing assistance with other costs.



                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The unit has adopted a range of measures to promote equal opportunities for all staff. Our line
 management structures support flexible working. 8% of our submitted outputs are attributed to
 staff on fractional contracts, as well as one of our submitted impact case studies (Shaw), and 26
 of our submitted staff have taken maternity/other family leave in this REF period. Research
 directors and the UoA Lead work with heads of department to ensure mentoring and resources
 are made available to staff returning to work following career breaks including maternity/parental
 leave, medical leave and caring responsibilities; these staff can also access an HR-led Coaching
 Transition Programme supporting their return to work. A Parenting Network provides informal
 member-led support for staff. We have also created bespoke packages of research leave and
 early sabbaticals to support colleagues returning from maternity/family leave (such as Daly in
 2018) to get back on research track and recover their momentum. All seminars are organised to
 facilitate the attendance of staff with family responsibilities, committees are scheduled in standard
 working hours and not allowed to overrun, and meetings are transparently minuted with clear
 action points. We guarantee one day per week free of teaching for each member of staff, though
 with the possibility of more than one clear day subject to the vagaries of the timetable. We are a
 Level 2 member of the Disability Confident Scheme and staff with underlying conditions or a
 declared disability are supported by reasonable adjustments to their workload/workspace where
 needed. Our submission includes one person with a declared disability.


 Throughout all aspects of our PGR processes – recruitment, supervision, progression and
 completion – we work very hard to maintain equality of opportunity for all, and the diversity of our
 PGR population. Our PGR population is 70% female and 20% BAME, with nearly 40% from ‘non-
 standard’ educational backgrounds. One of our awards during this REF period (in 2018,
 Coombes, supervised by Taylor) was 82 years old, completing a life-time project on Anglo-Indian
 Migration and Identity. We offer, fully support and fund part-time and flexible modes of PGR study,
 enabling and empowering students to combine postgraduate research with domestic/caring
 responsibilities, health conditions or employment. The Faculty of Arts, Design and Social Sciences
 has also annually subsidised the PGR fees for some international students, enabling us to recruit
 from a range of ODA countries, including Nigeria, Rwanda and Nepal.


 The Unit’s holistic engagement with the principles of equality and diversity is also embedded
 throughout our research, for example the work of Addison, Hoult and Robson on class and
 gendered inequalities within education, including higher education, the research of Coleman-
 Fountain, Hwang and Oak on sexuality and disability; Brandon’s expertise on mental health;
 and Rowe’s analysis of race and ethnicity within UK policing culture and policy. On the basis of
 her research, Lewis, R. delivers training across the university on dealing with disclosures of sexual
 violence.



                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Students
 The unit’s research student population has grown significantly since 2014. This increase reflects
 our growing reputation as a provider of doctoral education, while also being driven by more
 prominent advertising of our PhD opportunities. Each year, candidates to be supervised by staff
 from this unit compete for around 28 fully-funded PhD studentships allocated to each Faculty
 through the University’s Research Development Fund Studentship Scheme (RDFSS). The unit
 has been awarded, on average, eight RDFSSs per year over the current REF cycle. Our success
 in the internal competition is an endorsement of our capacity to attract high quality candidates and
 our record of supervising students to timely completion. Some of these RDFSS projects have been
 funded and supervised in partnership with external policy-orientated organisations. For example,
 Danks, who successfully completed in 2018, was jointly funded by the university and NHS England
 Health and Justice (North-East) to undertake a project examining the impact of health
 improvement initiatives within north-east prisons and was supervised by Dyer and a senior
 employee from the partner organisation. Our enhanced reputation for high-quality social work and
 social policy research within this REF cycle, combined with increased workload allowances for
 research and PGR supervision as well as targeted communication of PGR opportunities within the
 unit through relevant national and international research networks and collaborations, such as the
 British Society of Criminology (BSC) and its specialist networks and the BSA and its Study Groups,
 has also enabled us to increase our numbers of self-funded PhD students.


 The unit has dedicated PGR leads within respective Departments. Their role is: to process
 applications, including identifying appropriate supervisory teams; to oversee induction for
 incoming students; to construct an annual Departmental PGR training programme; to oversee
 student progression and completion, including attending the Faculty Research Degrees Sub-
 Committee which approves progression decisions; and to act as subject contacts for the Unit’s
 engagement with the AHRC’s Northern Bridge (NBC) and the ESRC’s NINE DTPs, including
 convening scrutiny panels to assess applications to NBC and NINE. Student progression is
 assessed through an initial Project Approval stage, followed by annual monitoring. Doctoral
 candidates have a minimum of two supervisors who share a workload allocation of 50 hours per
 annum for supervision. Our regulations require formal and documented contact between
 supervisor(s) and supervisee (normally a face-to-face meeting) on a monthly basis, with a
 synopsis of the discussion, and agreed next steps, logged on an electronic system.


 PhD students in the Unit can apply for funding for fieldwork, conference attendance or event
 organization through the relevant departmental QR budget. Larger-scale expenses, such as for
 data collection overseas can be accommodated so long as the research costs are flagged at
 Project Approval. Attendance at relevant research centre/cluster seminar programmes is
 considered mandatory for funded students. Funded studentships map on to our areas of expertise


                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and research centres and clusters, and students are encouraged to attend group meetings.
 Students are also required to present their research at one of our Faculty PGR student
 conferences, organized by a PGR student planning committee under the guidance of departmental
 PGR leads. All PhD students are encouraged to construct a public-facing profile via the
 University’s research portal. Student satisfaction is monitored through an internal survey and
 through PRES, with PGR coordinators being tasked with implementing an ‘Action Plan’ following
 each survey.


 We take seriously our responsibility to prepare students for life beyond the PhD. All students enrol
 on the University’s ‘Professional Development and Researcher Training Programme’ (PDRT),
 which is mapped against the four Vitae learning domains covering intellectual abilities, personal
 effectiveness, research governance, and engagement. Training is mixed between attended
 sessions and interactive courses accessed through Blackboard. While most courses are optional,
 those relating to induction, progression, and research ethics are mandatory. Departmental PGR
 training programmes include sessions on conference presentation and organization, academic
 publication and open access, CV drafting, impact and searching for jobs within and outside
 academia. We have recently introduced additional sessions enabling students to identify Athena
 SWAN and the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers as providing
 relevant contexts for their career progression. Students are required to compile a Professional
 Development and Research Training Plan, an outline of which must be submitted as part of their
 Project Approval documentation. The supervisory team, as well as supporting the student in
 developing their thesis, are required to oversee the student’s satisfactory engagement with their
 training programme. Evidence of a completed training log is required before the student is granted
 permission to submit.


 Our PhD students have also been able to access training and development programmes provided
 by NINE, for example those covering fieldwork within the global south and the use of visual
 methods in social research, and some of our staff (e.g. Hardill, Stretesky) have contributed to
 these. Within this REF period, Hardill has undertaken various roles within the development of the
 ESRC’s doctoral training nationally, serving for example on the Commissioning, Monitoring and
 Mid-Term Review Panels for DTPs between 2014-19, experience and expertise which has
 influenced our own current doctoral supervision and training programmes within the unit and which
 will be important in shaping our application to be part of an ESRC DTP in social science within the
 next REF cycle.


 Indicators of the increased quality of our research students since our previous submission, also
 illustrating the delivery of one of our strategic objectives set out in 2014, include the quality of their
 publishing outlets during/following their PhD and the prizes/awards that have been obtained. The



                                                                                                   Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 following are some examples. Hall (supervised by Taylor) who completed her PhD within this REF
 cycle, is now an Associate Professor within the unit and has published 2 monographs and over 5
 peer reviewed international journal articles, including within The British Journal of Criminology and
 The European Journal of Criminology as well as being an RDFSS PhD supervisor herself, while
 Cao (supervised by Wyatt) published within The Asian Journal of Criminology during his PhD
 which was awarded in 2016. Wiper (supervised by Lewis, R. and completed in 2018) is also a
 member of staff within the unit, with outputs in The British Journal of Criminology and The Journal
 of Gender-Based Violence. The first of these won the ‘best paper’ award from the Hate Studies
 Network of the British Society of Criminology in 2018. Ruiu (supervised by Mullen) published in
 Sociology, Housing and Society and The Journal of Rural Studies during her PhD, which she
 completed in November 2019, and she is now a member of staff within the unit with over 10 peer-
 reviewed international journal publications, while McKie (supervised by Stretesky) published in
 Sociological Inquiry before the completion of her PhD in 2018. Reidy (supervised by McLean) won
 the 2019 award for the best PhD from the Terrorism Research Initiative. Irving (supervised by
 Harding), a staff PhD completion in 2018 and now a Senior Lecturer within this unit was awarded
 the Valerie Karn Career Researcher Prize from the UK’s Housing Studies Association for her PhD
 work in 2019, while Southall (supervised by Brandon), also a staff PhD (completed in 2017) and
 now a member of this unit, has now published in The European Journal of Social Work.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 We have seen an increase in our RGCI from £2.2 million to £2.7 million since REF2014, funding
 which has increased year on year during the 2021 cycle. Most noteworthy is the increase in the
 proportion of our UKRI research council funding within this total – from 11% in 2014 to 27% across
 the 2021 period. In the last two years of the 2021 cycle, research council funding rose to 50% of
 our RGCI. This must be seen in the context of a previous dominance of contract research income
 from the public sector within the unit, for instance from the Department for Work and Pensions,
 income which was submitted to REF2014. As the opportunities to secure such contract research
 income have considerably declined, the unit has expanded its capacity to secure substantial
 research income from ‘gold bar’ academic funding bodies. Many of our awards are in collaboration
 with partners and/or involve significant partner payments. For example, Shaw’s £3.5 million
 COGOV project includes 70% partner payments. Hensengerth manages one work package (from
 five) within the £15.2 million UKRI GCRF Living Deltas research hub. Our overall partnership
 payments also amount to £2.7 million during this REF cycle, demonstrating the importance of
 academic, non-academic and international collaboration to our research and our capacity to lead
 major research council projects. We have also received a number of recent research council




                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 awards that will not be fully captured in the RGCI figures returned to REF2021, some of which are
 detailed below.


 Our success in improving research council grant capture in the unit is underpinned by our
 structures and culture. Research is overseen by departmental research directors in conjunction
 with the UoA Lead, supported by RIS. Researchers work closely with a RIS Research
 Development Manager, who gives guidance on funding opportunities, and with dedicated Faculty
 pre-award and post-award officers. Research directors are responsible for developing and
 monitoring a two year research funding plan for all staff. The emphasis here is upon fully
 supporting and enabling realistic funding objectives appropriate to career stage


 Building on the ECR Development Programme (noted above) RIS also run an elite training
 programme (‘Next Generation of Large Award Holders’) for researchers who have already won
 small or medium-sized grants to help them transition to larger-scale applications. Wyatt attended
 the programme in 2017 before writing her successful AHRC Leadership Fellowship application.
 Successful recipients of major awards and fellowships run workshops targeting particular funding
 schemes for other staff within the unit. Relevant faculties also run funding application workshops
 in connection with particular schemes such as BA/Leverhulme small grants, Leverhulme mid-
 career Fellowships, and ESRC/AHRC Leadership Fellowships and standard grants, and the
 research development manager runs regular bidding clinics. Staff from SWECW work closely with
 the Research Design Service supported by the NHS in the north east of England for applications
 to NIHR. We emphasize the importance of long lead-in times when researchers are aiming at
 schemes with fixed deadlines. All funding applications are required to be submitted to our Faculty
 Peer Review College and will be scrutinized by two reviewers. Applications sent to the Faculty for
 final sign-off are accompanied by a statement on how the PI has addressed issues identified
 through the peer review process. The process is designed to ensure that all bids leaving the
 Faculty are competitive. Researchers can also apply to a Faculty Research Bidding Fund which
 allows for the hiring of an RA to scope out a potential project. All staff can apply to have research
 expenses covered from relevant departmental QR allocations, with a nominal £1500 being allowed
 p.a. for each researcher. All requests are expected to align with research objectives.


 RIS also provides departments and research centres/clusters with lists of appropriate funding
 schemes for particular members of staff, depending upon their career stage. Research directors
 and heads of department, working with colleagues in RIS and the UoA(20) Lead, have particularly
 targeted research council fellowships during this REF period, including British Academy
 International Visiting Fellowships, Leverhulme Trust Fellowships and Senior Fellowships, ESRC
 and UKRI Early Career Fellowships, AHRC Leadership Fellowships, Independent Social
 Research Fellowships and Early Career Fellowships and Newton Fund Fellowships. As noted


                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 above and below, we have subsequently had some success with awards from these schemes
 during this REF cycle, for the first time in the history of the university. As we have developed this
 expertise and a track record of success, we expect to build upon this even further in the next REF
 period.


 The support mechanisms described above have reaped notable dividends and demonstrate the
 success of our research strategy over the current REF cycle. The following are some examples of
 recent awards:


 Shaw is PI (with Daly as CI) on a four year European Commission Horizon 2020 funded project
 (£3,587,119) COGOV, working with a consortium of universities, municipalities and private
 companies to understand the transformation of European public administrations;


 Hensengerth is CI on a five year (from 2019) UKRI GCRF funded (£15,287,288), Living Deltas
 Research Hub, managing a work package exploring the role of young people envisioning and
 creating a future in major river deltas in times of environmental change in Vietnam, Bangladesh
 and India. He was also a PI on a 2 year (2016-7) Newton Fund project (£56,000) researching flood
 management in Vietnam. The research from this latter project was shortlisted for the Newton Prize
 in 2017;


 Stretesky is PI on a three year (2018-2021) £8 million project funded by ESRC/NERC, ‘The Social
 Construction of Unconventional Gas Extraction’, exploring the social impact of hydraulic fracturing
 on communities;


 Miranda is PI on a two year (2019-21) ESRC/UKRI/Japan Science and Technology Agency
 funded project (£750,000) investigating ‘Emotional AI in Cities: Cross Cultural Lessons from the
 UK and Japan’;


 Coleman-Fountain, an ECR, is PI on a three year (2020-23) NIHR funded project (£228,466), in
 collaboration with Disability North, project titled ‘Personal Assistance for Intimate Citizenship: A
 Co-Production Project to Improve Sexuality Related Support for Disabled Young Adults’;


 Oxburgh is PI on a 2020 UKRI-funded (£323,000) COVID-19 Rapid Response project,
 ‘Supporting the Interviewing and Legal Representation of Crime Victims and Suspects Using
 Digital Communication Methods’;


 Hardill was PI on a two year (2016-18) ESRC funded project (£470,000), ‘Discourses of Voluntary
 Action at Two Transformational Moments of the Welfare State – the 1940s and 2010’ and is PI on


                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a 2020 UKRI Covid 19 Rapid Response project (£420,000), ‘Mobilising Voluntary Action in the 4
 UK Jurisdictions;


 Rowe was PI on a two year (2018-20) project funded by ESRC (£329,385), ‘Visible Policing: The
 Affective Properties of Police Buildings, Images and Material Culture’;


 Wyatt was PI on a British Academy funded project in 2015 (£37,000) investigating ‘International
 Trade in Wildlife’, PI on a Scottish Government funded project (£70,000) on ‘Illegal Puppy Trade
 and Farming’; PI on an AHRC Leadership Programme (£185,000) investigating the international
 trade in endangered species and CI on a 2020 UKRI GCRF/Newton Fund Agile Response bid
 (£364,000) ‘Identifying and Mitigating the Impacts of COVID-19 on Legal and Sustainable Wildlife
 Trade in LMICs’;


 Raymen, an ECR, is CI on a two year (2020-22) Norwegian Research Council funded (£681,000)
 project titled ‘Luxury, Corruption and Global Ethics: Towards a Critical Cultural Theory of the Moral
 Economy of Fraud’;


 Ragnedda, Harding, and Daly were in receipt of British Academy and Leverhulme small grants
 during this REF period.


 Infrastructure and Facilities
 The unit has also benefitted from university investment in physical facilities and infrastructure in
 order to develop our research centres and clusters. The Centre for International Development,
 the Centre for Crime and Policing and the Healthy Living Lab have been allocated building
 and office space which has brought researchers, research assistants and PGR students with
 shared interests and expertise together. These spaces also have break out rooms for group and
 informal discussions and seminar rooms for more formal presentations. The Power, Culture and
 Identities, Insecurity, Violence and Harm and International Relations research clusters also
 have access to a dedicated space – the Policy Hub – at the City Campus for cluster events and
 seminars. There are also four dedicated, newly developed (2018) research suites at the City and
 Coach Lane campuses available for seminars and conferences. Research students belonging to
 the unit are housed in postgraduate suites, located close to relevant staff offices and allowing
 access to a shared student-staff common room. Our students also can access the ‘Research
 Commons’ space in the City Library, a dedicated area for PGRs and academic researchers.


 The University Library works in partnership with academic staff to develop a multidisciplinary
 collection that meets the evolving research needs of the unit. The library collection encompasses
 print and electronic books and journals and sources of subscribed scholarly content including


                                                                                              Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 databases, practitioner resources and digital archives. During the REF period, the university has
 invested £1,480,172.57 in these resources specifically for UoA20 research. In addition to this
 discipline-focussed investment, the library also procures multidisciplinary databases, ebook and
 ejournal packages for use across all research areas. These include Science Direct, Sage,
 Emerald, Taylor & Francis, Wiley, OUP, Springer, Nature and Science journals, JSTOR Arts &
 Sciences and Nexis. The library’s investment in multidisciplinary resources over the REF period
 has been £6,418,036.50.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Contribution to Economy and Society
 Section 1 outlines our impact strategy, to support research which tackles, and directly intervenes
 within, some of the most pressing social, cultural and policy issues within contemporary society at
 a sub-national, national and global level emerging from our previously identified areas of expertise,
 and how this has generated our six submitted impact case studies. Here, we outline how impact
 work goes beyond these case studies and is embedded throughout the unit’s research. This work
 is supported through dedicated impact funds within Departmental and Faculty QR budgets and
 through the mentoring and staff development processes outlined above.


 Some unit staff work explicitly from within a participatory and public engagement paradigm. Thus,
 for example, Atkin, Brandon and Southall have worked with people experiencing mental health
 distress and mental health professionals to co-design and co-produce research with the aim of
 improving mental health services. This research, and the overall co-creation approach, has directly
 influenced the policies and activities of the Cumbria, Northumberland, Tyne and Wear NHS
 Foundation Trust and local mental health charities such as ReCoCo and Chilli Studios in relation
 to mental health in the north-east of England. Hwang has developed participatory action research
 with disabled service user organisations in the UK and South Korea, directly leading to the creation
 of social supports for disabled people’s leisure time by Gateshead Council (UK) and Korean
 government policies which have increased disabled people’s financial choice and freedom over
 the support they can commission.


 During this REF cycle, at the local level, Rowe and Dresser have worked in collaboration with
 Northumbria Police, Rowe around issues of domestic abuse and hate crime and Dresser
 engaging in evidenced-based analyses of counter-radicalisation with a particular focus upon the
 UK government’s PREVENT programme. Robson leads partnerships of local authority, NHS,
 higher education and voluntary sector partners to develop health, care and education services for
 families with 0-2 year olds in Newcastle upon Tyne and Brandon’s participatory research within
 mental health has been adopted as a mainstream practice by a range of third sector and NHS



                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 organisations in the north east of England. At the national level, Stretesky and Szolucha are
 working with a range of statutory bodies, communities and policy-makers across the UK to assess
 and communicate the benefits and burdens of hydraulic fracturing in the UK. Farrand-Carrapico
 has contributed to the governance of Brexit, specifically in relation to policing and judicial
 cooperation, through several calls to provide evidence to the House of Commons and the House
 of Lords. Internationally, Shaw works with a range of universities, municipalities and private
 companies across six European states to investigate the current transformation of European
 public administration, with recent work examining the impact of COVID-19, while Taylor has
 collaborated with the Indian government’s Ministry of External Affairs to understand the
 relationship between international migration, caste and inclusive development, having a direct
 influence upon migration policy and governance. Hall’s research into the on-line sale of fake
 medications internationally has directly shaped the design of systems and software used by law
 enforcement and health regulatory agencies across the world, including Interpol and the European
 Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction. Oxburgh has worked with the UN and the
 International Criminal Court (ICC) on international human rights, training investigators, lawyers
 and judges within the ICC in non-coercive interviewing methods and sitting on a UN-led steering
 committee which developed a universal protocol for non-coercive interviewing and procedural
 safeguards. Collaboration with user communities and research impact is now embedded, and
 intrinsic to, the social work and social policy research of staff across the entire unit, and this also
 extends to our PhD students. Thus, McBride (supervised by Lewis, R., who completed in 2020)
 used her PhD research findings to produce a short animation film about sexual harassment in the
 night-time economy. This was funded by QR monies from the Department of Social Sciences and
 has since been used by third sector organisations and schools within the north-east of England to
 educate young people about the dangers of sexual harassment and abuse. All of this impact work
 will continue into the next REF period, with the potential to generate further, high quality and
 powerful social work and social policy impact case studies.


 Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base
 Staff within the unit have also made considerable contributions to the research base through their
 participation in national and international academic and non-academic networks and partnerships,
 as well as through the development of their disciplines and their role within relevant professional
 and subject associations and learned societies. Thus, staff within the unit have produced a wide
 range of highly original monographs during this REF period, which take their disciplines in new
 directions and define new areas of study. For example, Cieslik’s The Happiness Riddle and the
 Quest for the Good Life (2017) defines and develops the sociology of happiness as an area of
 study, Winlow’s (with Hall, S.) Revitalising Criminological Theory: Towards a New Ultra-Realism
 (2015) defines a new direction in criminological theory which has had a hugely significant impact
 within the discipline and both Stretesky’s (with Lynch, M.) Exploring Green Criminology: Toward


                                                                                                Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a Green Criminological Revolution (2014) and Wyatt’s (with Nurse, A) Wildlife Criminology (2020)
 define and develop new sub-disciplines within criminology, facilitating huge growth in academic
 research within these areas. Similarly, unit staff have been involved in editing special issues of
 leading international, peer reviewed journals and volumes during the REF period which have been
 discipline-defining. For instance, Taylor was part of a team who edited, and authored an editorial
 introduction to, a 2016 special issue of Sociology, the flagship journal of the BSA, titled ‘Bringing
 it “Home”: Sociological Practice and the Practice of Sociology’, an edition to celebrate the 50th
 anniversary of the journal which defined the nature of the discipline over the past half century and
 established boundaries and priorities for the future. Casey has also edited a special issue of
 Sociology (2020), while Cieslik edited a special issue of Sociological Research Online in 2015
 and Taylor was part of a team editing a special issue of Migration and Development in 2019.
 Wyatt, Davies and Francis edited a hugely influential edited volume in 2014, Invisible Crimes
 and Social Harms, part of Palgrave’s Critical Criminology book series, which defined a new
 direction in criminological study, as did Raymen’s jointly edited collection with the same publisher,
 Deviant Leisure (2019), and Lewis’s (with Anitha) Gender-Based Violence in University
 Communities (Policy Press, 2018). Raymen has also led, in conjunction with colleagues from the
 Insecurity, Violence and Harm research cluster, the development of a new (2020) peer-
 reviewed, open access journal, The Journal of Contemporary Crime, Harm and Ethics. Stretesky
 is co-editor (since 2011) of Routledge’s Green Criminology book series.


 Staff within this submission have been part of a range of editorial boards of leading international
 and disciplinary peer-reviewed journals during this REF period, further demonstrating their
 academic esteem and roles in developing their disciplines. Examples include: Winlow (The British
 Journal of Criminology); Stretesky (Sociological Quarterly); Rowe (Policing and Society); Taylor
 and Casey (Sociology); Hwang and Brandon (Disability and Society); Lewis, R. and Coleman-
 Fountain (Sociological Research Online); Wyatt (The International Journal of Wildlife Law and
 Policy) and Hall (Trends in Organised Crime and The Journal of Extreme Anthropology). Both
 Winlow and Stephenson have been on the editorial board of Frontiers in Sociology, a publication
 aimed primarily at sociology ‘A’ Level and further education students, an example illustrating the
 commitment of unit staff to the sustainability and development of their disciplines. Further evidence
 of this can be found through the prominent roles which unit members have played within
 professional associations, learned societies and the ESRC during the REF period. For example,
 Winlow was Vice-President of the British Society of Criminology from 2016-19, while Hall was
 Chair of the north-east branch of the same organisation (2017-19). Dedotsi was elected in 2017
 to the board of the European Association of Social Work Research, while both Casey and Cieslik
 have convened study groups within the BSA and Heslop has chaired a work group for the British
 Association of Social Work during the REF period. Defeyter was elected a Fellow of the British
 Psychological Society in 2015 and Farrand-Carrapico chaired a working group (2016-20) within,


                                                                                              Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and organised the annual international conference (2019) of, The British International Studies
 Association. Hardill is an elected Fellow of the Academy of the Social Sciences and was
 appointed to the ESRC’s Training and Skills Committee (2014-17), Capability Committee (2015-
 18) and Strategic Advisory Network (2018-20), as well as being a member of their COVID-19
 Commissioning Panel 2020-21, during this REF cycle, while Hensengerth is a Fellow at Chatham
 House. Researchers also regularly share their expertise as external examiners. Across the unit,
 staff have examined 88 UK-based PhDs and 22 overseas.


 Staff within the unit have received a number of awards during the REF period, including Defeyter
 being recognised by The Big Issue as one of the UKs top 100 ‘Change Makers’ for her research
 and policy impact on childhood food poverty, as well as being in receipt of a ‘Food Heroes’ award
 from Sustain for her work on school breakfast clubs and holiday hunger programmes (both in
 2020). There have also been appointments to Visiting Professorship/Fellowship roles during the
 period, for example Taylor was a Visiting Professor within the South Asia Institute at SOAS (2017-
 20), University of London, Wyatt was a Visiting Fellow to the University of Oslo (2018) and
 Coleman-Fountain was appointed as a Fellow at the NIHR School for Social Care Research in
 2020.




                                                                                           Page 27
