Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of St Andrews

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 33: Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Context and Structure
 The Department of Film Studies is well-known as a UK leader in global cinema, and has
 undergone a period of sustained growth and diversification of its research culture during this REF
 cycle. Since 2014, we have secured several new research hires, bringing our total permanent staff
 count from seven to ten. This growth, which allowed us to enter the Guardian league tables for the
 first time in 2019 (second in our discipline), has also permitted a strategic expansion of our
 research culture. The department unites a wide array of geographic expertise and scholarly
 approaches to film (cultural, historiographic, theoretical, phenomenological, technological), with a
 full spectrum of staff expertise in different types of film and moving images, including early cinema,
 arthouse, avant-garde, animation, documentary, digital media, television and ‘useful’ cinema.
 Currently, Film Studies consists of:
        •2 professors (Michael Cowan, Dina Iordanova)
        •4 senior lecturers (Lucy Donaldson, Elisabetta Girelli, Tom Rice, Leshu Torchin)
        •4 lecturers (Kirsty Dootson, Paul Flaig, Philippa Lovatt, Zoë Shacklock)
 All staff members contribute fully to the vitality and sustainability of our research culture by
 publishing research outputs, assuming leadership positions within the discipline at large,
 nourishing international research collaborations, supervising PhD and MLitt students, organising
 major research events, and engaging in research-led teaching (for which our department ranked
 first on the NSS in both 2017 and 2019).
 Our renowned doctoral programme continues to thrive, with 12 active students and 23 degrees
 awarded over the current REF cycle. Doctoral students contribute to research by editing a
 scholarly journal (Frames), publishing articles and chapters, serving in scholarly associations (e.g.
 BAFTSS), participating in international conferences, and organising research events. Graduates
 from our doctoral programme have gone on to secure academic, curatorial and industry
 employment in the UK, the US, Germany, Sweden, Turkey, China, South Korea, Malaysia and
 Thailand—and to capture prestigious grants such as the Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship.
 The department maintains two centres: the Institute for Global Cinema and Creative Cultures
 (dedicated to work on global cinema) and the Centre for Screen Cultures (supporting research in
 other areas). Together with the Department Speaker Series, they ensure a vibrant roster of
 research events, many with world-renowned scholars, as well as filmmakers, film and media
 curators, and industry professionals (elaborated in section 4).
 During the 2014-2020 period, we also hosted two Professorial Fellows (Richard Dyer and Jean-
 Michel Frodon, both retired 2018), four Associate Lecturers (Donaldson 2014-15, Jennifer
 O’Meara 2016-18, Zoë Shacklock 2018-20, and Tyler Parks 2018-20) and numerous visiting
 lecturers and postdocs from Austria, China, Poland, Romania, South Korea, Spain, Switzerland,
 and Turkey.
 Our Department is committed to research integrity, which forms part of staff mentoring and School-
 led annual reviews of staff development. We are also progressing towards an open research
 environment (see Institution-Level Environment Statement, ILES, 2.4). We run a well-established
 open access academic journal, Frames, and several staff members serve on editorial boards for
 other OA journals (e.g. Donaldson and Torchin for Mai: Feminism and Visual Culture). Other staff
 are involved in creating OA content of historical materials; Cowan created the Domitor journals
 project (with links to digitised historical film journals available online) and collaborates with the
 Media History Digital Library to digitise German film journals (e.g. Der Kinematograph, Lichtbild-
 Bühne), while Rice collaborated with the BFI to digitise the journal Colonial Cinema for his Colonial
 Cinema website. Cowan is on the steering committee of NECS, which has drafted a Statement on


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Open Scholarship and approved a regular panel for open scholarship for all future NECS
 conferences.
 For a relatively small department we are well supported by the School and University, proven by
 the growth in staff and our excellent working relations outside the department. We are an
 independent research and teaching unit in the School of Philosophical, Anthropological and Film
 Studies, which is part of the Arts and Divinity Faculty at St Andrews. Administratively, the
 department is integrated in benefits from the School’s shared professional support structure. The
 Head of School line manages all academic staff and has financial responsibility for its resources.
 Research Strategy
 Our major goal for this REF cycle has been to support staff members in the production of world-
 leading research, whilst diversifying our research culture into new research clusters (elaborated
 below). We have supported this strategy through research leave and the sharing and discussion
 of research applications and output drafts. These efforts have been focused on developing and
 articulating three research themes outlined below. During the 2014-2020 period, St Andrews staff
 published 9 books (including 4 monographs) and dozens of peer-reviewed articles, chapters, and
 essays. Our work has received widespread international acclaim, including a spate of scholarly
 awards from major Film Studies associations in the UK, Europe and North America (see section
 4).




Figure 1: Books by Film Studies Researchers



 Research Areas
 In our REF2014 submission, we emphasised our status as a leader in global cinema studies,
 defining our strategy as ‘the exploration of the global significance of film in all phases of its cultural
 life’. Over the past six years, we have maintained this global dimension, whilst expanding our
 purview (through a series of new hires) in two areas at the forefront of disciplinary shifts: film and
 media historiography and the analysis of audio-visual environments. These three clusters—
 respectively foregrounding cultural-political, historiographical, and aesthetic approaches to film—
 overlap in exciting ways; each staff member works across shared areas, and we nourish the vitality
 of our research environment by cultivating space for scholars to grow and expand intellectually.
 We maintain an active schedule of internal research events, allowing us to share work and reflect
 on ways in which insights from one area lead to innovative perspectives in another. The three
 main clusters are outlined below:

 Global Film Cultures

 Under Iordanova’s leadership, our department became a UK leader in global cinema studies, with
 a particular focus on film festivals and other forms of film culture. During the current REF cycle,
 we have enhanced that reputation with new hires in Indian (Jain), European (Cowan, Flaig) and
 Asian (Lovatt) cinemas, as well as ongoing work on global cinema by Iordanova and Torchin.
 Numerous research outputs attest to our continued status in global cinema, including Iordanova’s
 2016 collection Cinemas of Paris (which won an honourable mention from BAFTSS) and Lovatt’s
 AHRC-funded project ‘Southeast Asian Cinemas Network’. Building upon our previous work in
 festival studies, we have also sought to further explore film cultural phenomena at a global level
 (e.g. Cowan’s work on film magazines and cine-clubs) and developed a widespread involvement
 in film festivals. At the same time, the department has sought to critically interrogate concepts of
 the ‘global’ by investigating their history –for example in Rice’s monograph Films for the Colonies
 (2019), which historicises imperial power structures, networks, and institutions that still shape
                                                                                                    Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 understandings of the ‘global’ in the UK. Our doctoral students produce a range of excellent work
 in this area, with recent projects on topics such as Chinese New Waves, cinema in the Arab Gulf
 region, UK film festivals in a global context, self-reflexivity in contemporary Bollywood, and many
 more.

 New Approaches to Film and Media Historiography

 Following the hires of Cowan (2015), Flaig (2016) and Dootson (2019), we now produce world-
 leading work in several areas of film and media historiography. First, we are the leading UK
 department for work on ‘useful cinema’; Cowan’s research on avant-garde, advertising and
 Kulturfilm (e.g. Walter Ruttmann and the Cinema of Multiplicity; The Promise of Cinema), along
 with Rice’s work on propaganda (White Robes, Silver Screens) and colonial cinema (Films for the
 Colonies), have won numerous top research awards internationally (detailed in section 4). Second,
 we have a robust contingent of work in media historiography, examining histories of technologies,
 materialities, and cinematic ‘dispositifs’. This includes an innovative contribution to media
 archaeology with publications such as Flaig’s article on the archaeology of talking machines and
 Cowan’s articles on histories of print magazines and cinematic shooting galleries (a precursor to
 video games). This work includes Flaig’s lauded 2015 collection New Silent Cinema (one chapter
 from which won an award at SCMS). Dootson, who joined us in 2019, adds yet another dimension
 to this historiographical cluster through her focus on histories of film materials (colour
 technologies, film stock) with attention to under-researched sectors of film technology (e.g.
 cosmetics).
 This research in film history, which intersects with Torchin’s longstanding interest in documentary
 and activism (see ‘impact strategy’ below), stands out for several reasons. First, it is never simply
 celebratory, but always critical, grappling for instance with the intersections between film history
 and race (Rice, Cowan, Dootson, Torchin) and gender (Dootson, Flaig, Girelli). Second, it goes
 beyond the mere ‘exploration’ of under-researched film sectors to ask how such work might also
 reshape our understanding of canonical film historical narratives (e.g. the interwar avant-garde in
 Cowan’s work, early documentary in Rice’s work). Finally, it is never antiquarian but always linked
 to the present, showing how research in film history can elucidate the genealogies of contemporary
 media from computer games to educational television.
 This cluster of historiographical work in the department is also having an effect on our doctoral
 programme, and we can now point to several innovative archival-based PhD projects, including
 recent theses on topics such as the institutional strategies of silent film archives, ethnographic film
 at the Musée de l’Homme, and women in silent Bombay cinema.

 New Approaches to Audiovisual Environments

 This is an emerging cluster for the department, which examines how audio-visual environments in
 film are both crafted and experienced aesthetically. The cluster has taken shape with the hires of
 Donaldson, Lovatt and (most recently) Shacklock, all of whom examine sensory experience (in
 popular film, experimental and television respectively), but it also implicates work of other staff
 members, including historical work (e.g. Cowan, Dootson, Flaig) and work on performance
 (Girelli). Though this cluster intersects with the subfields of sensory cinema, affect, and
 performance studies, several aspects make our contribution unique. First, it extends sensory
 studies beyond the traditional phenomenologies of spectatorship to attend to the labour of
 elaborating sensory worlds, an initiative first introduced in Donaldson’s monograph Texture in Film
 (2014) and subsequently developed in her extensive work on (and with) audio practitioners.
 Second, there is a distinctive shared interest in sound, which marks the work of not only Donaldson
 and Lovatt, who sits on the editorial board of Music, Sound and the Moving Image (and formerly
 associate editor of The New Soundtrack), but also of others in the department: (eg. Flaig on
 synthetic voices, Rice on lecturers in colonial Africa).This research makes St Andrews one of the
 UK’s leading centres for theoretical and historical research on sound. Third is the distinct attention
 to ethical and political dimensions of sensory and affective media experience—e.g. in Lovatt’s
 work on sound in films dealing with prisoners and displaced subjects (e.g. ‘Breathing Bodies’),

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Shacklock’s work on queer kinaesthesia in television and Girelli’s work on performance and
 disability. Our work on performance is vital for its understanding of performance as a category that
 goes beyond acting to include other aspects of creative film labour, as in Donaldson’s recent edited
 collection, Television Performance (2019). Doctoral work within this cluster is still emerging, but
 our students are already undertaking innovative projects (e.g. a thesis on perceiving sound in
 silent cinema and another approaching Laurence Olivier’s performance through the lens of queer
 theory).

 Interdisciplinarity
 In addition to internal collaborations within the above-mentioned clusters, our department
 enthusiastically supports interdisciplinary work, with members of staff at home in fields beyond
 Film Studies (e.g. Cowan and Flaig in Modern Languages, Dootson in Art History). Within the
 School’s other two departments, Philosophy and Anthropology, a number of colleagues are
 involved in research themes including the Institute for Gender Studies which is housed in the
 Department of Philosophy (Donaldson, Flaig, Iordanova, Torchin), and Centre for Minorities
 Research, which is in Anthropology (Iordanova). The small size of St Andrews makes cross-
 School interaction relatively easy, and our staff participate in numerous interdisciplinary centres
 at St Andrews, for example Centre for Art and Politics, hosted by International Relations (Lovatt,
 Torchin), the Centre for Contemporary Art (Cowan, Donaldson), and the Centre for Russian,
 Soviet, Central and Eastern European Studies (Iordanova) both in Modern Languages. Several
 staff have given keynotes at St Andrews conferences in Modern Languages (Cowan), English
 (Donaldson), and International Relations (Iordanova). Additional cross-School initiatives include
 an informal interdisciplinary working group on visual culture with the School of Art History (Cowan,
 Donaldson, Dootson) and a collaboration with Modern Languages to become the new home of the
 German Screen Studies Network (Cowan, Flaig).

 Impact Strategy 2014-2020
 Building on our world-leading research, we nourish a vibrant and diverse programme of public
 outreach and impact, overseen by the Director of Impact. We work with an array of non-academic
 partners, including film festivals, archives, curators, filmmakers, sound artists, journalists, and
 museums to develop and participate in public engagement activities locally and globally (further
 details in section 4). Much of this activity has produced measurable change beyond the University,
 enabled by mechanisms introduced to support and enhance the department’s impact endeavours,
 including:
        •Creating a Director of Impact position: In line with university guidelines the role-holder
        coordinates the department’s public outreach activities and provides guidance cultivating
        impact.
        •Supporting recognition and work: The department has instituted concrete measures for
        recognising impact contributions (e.g. workloading impact case study authors) and providing
        support from the School’s research team. From 2017-2019, the School restructured its
        professional services provision, resulting in the formation of a research team to assist with
        impact-related administration.
        •Enhancing knowledge of Impact and Public Engagement opportunities: Impact
        discussions are incorporated into staff meetings, research away days and workshops
        including topics such as peer-feedback of activities in progress and explorations of
        potential collaborations. Additionally, representatives from the Public Engagement Team
        have been invited to outline how staff can generate pathways to impact through existing
        programmes and networks (e.g. Explorathon).
        •Strengthening ties with The Byre Theatre: The department has been working closely with
        the Byre to produce events for the public including The Foley Explosion (in which a foley
        artist uses performance of sound effects to reflect on disinformation and fake news), and
        Docs@TheByre (a documentary film series). This is a vital venue for reaching audiences
        beyond the University.
        •Expanding Funding for Impact: We redefined our departmental centres to make funding
        for public engagement part of their remit. And we have taken advantage of St Andrews’

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       unique impact funding through 9 successful applications (£23,766.38) to the Knowledge
       Exchange and Impact Fund (ILES, 2.3), supporting such project as the DocSalon that
       launched Torchin’s continued collaborations with the Edinburgh International Film Festival;
       the production of a documentary by Mark Lyken drawing on research expertise of Rice
       (archives) and Lovatt (artists’ film).

   A cornerstone of our impact strategy has been to cultivate areas of shared interests. Within this
   context, two key clusters of public engagement activity have come to the fore, corresponding to
   our two impact case studies:

 Film Festivals: Dina Iordanova’s field-defining work in film festivals has played a key role in
 understanding the range of festival types, their various functions for industries, nations,
 communities, and organisations, as well as the ways festivals interact with and relate to one
 another. This field and her expertise, delivered in publications, workshops, and master-classes,
 have benefited programmers and filmmakers, giving them critical insights into the shape and
 audience of their events and their navigation of the circuits, respectively.

 Her value to festivals is marked by her invitations to offer master classes and to serve on the
 Jury of prominent festivals (e.g. Busan, Yamagata, Thessaloniki) as well as solicitations from
 global news media to comment on developments in the festival world (e.g. ABC-Australia, TRT-
 Turkey). Lovatt’s activity unites local and global, participating in festivals in Asia (e.g. Arkipel-
 Jakarta International Documentary and Experimental Film Festival) and bringing Asian artists to
 Scotland (e.g. Glasgow Short Film Festival) and Europe (ed. International Film Festival
 Rotterdam). Meanwhile, Torchin has cultivated partnerships with Scottish film festivals
 (Edinburgh International Film Festival, Document Human Rights Film Festival), producing new
 programmes and fostering public education through lectures and panels, with colleagues
 Donaldson and Shacklock joining in the delivery.

 Documentary:

 Our partnerships with festivals reinforce the collective interest in documentary and non-fiction
 media. Programmes curated and developed by staff showcase the various types of documentary
 (avant-garde, installation pieces, useful cinema) and holdings of documentary archives,
 expanding the cultural understanding of documentary: what it is, what it looks like, its
 relationship to truth, and its many uses from education to entertainment. These include:
         -Cowan’s exhibition of early science films for the St Andrews Photography Festival
         -Lovatt’s workshop of experiments with documentary sound at the Hanoi DocLab,
         generating art exhibited at festivals in Glasgow, Hong Kong, Berlin, and New York.
         -Rice’s widespread public engagement around legacies of British colonial film and the
         use of film/media by the Ku Klux Klan (contributions to The Guardian, the New York
         Times, and television documentaries by the BBC and Smithsonian channel);
         -Torchin’s introduction of the DocSalon to Edinburgh International Film Festival and the
         Docs@TheByre programme to The Byre Theatre, and articles on documentary and
         activist media for The Conversation.

 The case study, which focusses on Torchin and Lovatt’s innovations in expanding how
 documentary can be understood and studied (and the ensuing impact on programming and
 production), reflects the wider commitment of departmental research and activity.

 Strategy for the Next REF Cycle

 Our mission is to nurture the exceptional vitality of our research and impact, whilst enhancing
 our evolving research profile. We will continue to consolidate our international reputation in the
 three cluster areas outlined above and push them in new directions of screen cultures (gallery


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 exhibitions, television, multi-media). We will develop the cluster in non-fiction media, which
 encompasses and unites our work in documentary, useful cinema, and audio-visual
 environments. This work will be supported through continued dedicated research meetings and
 away-days to share work and ideas for development in publications, public engagement, and
 funding applications.

 With regards to staffing, we will be replacing two senior colleagues in the next REF cycle. This is
 an occasion to reinforce and develop our current strengths and clusters whilst strengthening our
 global networks through research projects and grant capture. We will continue to support career
 progression of junior colleagues using available School and University resources (see Section 2).

 For impact, we will continue to strengthen our relations with our partners local (e.g. Edinburgh
 International Film Festival, Dundee Contemporary Arts) and global (e.g. Taiwan Film and Audio
 Visual Institute, Finger Lakes Environmental Film Festival). With the University (including the
 Public Engagement Team and the Community Engagement & Social Responsibility Officer) and
 The Byre Theatre, we are working to transform the St Andrews 60-Hour Film Blitz—started in
 2011—into a larger festival with the intention of enhancing film and media arts culture through
 screenings and participatory workshops. The recruitment for a curator is underway with an
 anticipated festival launch date of April 2022. Meanwhile, Lovatt sits on the advisory board of the
 Wardlaw Museum of the University of St Andrews which affords occasions to contribute to larger
 strategy discussions as well as to develop exhibits.

 We plan to continue with the hosting of the BAFTSS conference following the necessary
 postponement of the 2020 conference due to Covid-19. The pandemic conditions and the
 necessity to go online may pose challenges, but also opportunities to find new ways of fostering
 international networks and developing connections with remote communities (in Scotland and
 beyond).

 Our mission is to sustain our healthy PhD programme whilst increasing our success rate with
 outside funding. We are growing our taught postgraduate programme (whose students regularly
 participate in the department’s research culture). Between 2015 and 2019, the MLitt enrolments
 increased from 2 to 8) following a new strategy for promotion and recruitment. And in Autumn
 2020 we launched a new two-year international Masters programme—unique to Scotland—
 allowing us to take part in the European network IMACS: International Master in Audiovisual and
 Cinema Studies with 14 other leading Film Studies programmes in Europe and Canada.

 Section 2. People

 During this REF cycle, the University invested in the development of Film Studies, funding
 replacements for 3 departing colleagues as well as three new permanent staff positions, thereby
 increasing our total from 7 to 10. While our hires included one senior appointment (a goal from the
 2014REF document), our main staffing strategy has been to hire junior colleagues and foster a
 supportive environment in which they can grow into leadership positions whilst reshaping the
 culture of the department. Donaldson, for instance, joined us in 2013 as a teaching fellow before
 moving into a permanent position, advancing to Senior Lecturer, and leading the development of
 a research cluster on audiovisual environments—taking on co-directorship of the Centre for
 Screen Cultures in September 2020.

 Support for Career Development
 Our department subscribes to the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development
 of Researchers and we seek to nurture a research environment in which all staff feel valued and
 supported to achieve their highest potential in research (ILES, 3). At 10FTEs, we are a small unit
 by university standards, meaning that staff members have both responsibilities and opportunities
 to assume leadership positions relatively early in their careers. In this context, they benefit from a


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 multi-tiered range of support mechanisms designed to facilitate career progression, promote
 world-class research, and nourish a sense of collegial cohesion.

  Staff Support Mechanisms

                                                  University
                                               Staff inductions
                                                  Promotions
                                      Financial Advice and Support team
                                                     (FAS)
                                       Research Business Development
                                          and Contracts team (RBDC)
                                           Centre for Educational
                                       Enhancement and Development
                   School                          (CEED)

                                          Public Engagement team                Department
             Mentoring Scheme
                                                                              Staff inductions
             Annual Review and                                            Support from Directors of
            development scheme                                             Research, Teaching and
                                                                                   Impact
             Research travel fund                                             Workload model
               Library budget                                               Research leave policy
                                                                             In-progress series




 Figure 2: Overview of Mechanisms for Staff Support

 At the University, School and departmental level, all new staff members receive a staff induction.
 Junior staff members are also enrolled in a School mentoring programme with a senior member
 of staff in another department. Additional forms of support and mentoring in specific areas are
 provided by the Directors of Research, Impact, and Teaching, with further general support from
 the Head of Department and the Head of School.
 In apportioning administrative tasks, we assure that new junior staff members receive a reduced
 administrative load during the first 1-2 years. Moreover, we strive to assign administrative tasks in
 ways that are appropriate to a staff member’s level and maximise opportunities for leadership and
 career progression.
 Over the past several years, the department has devised a transparent workload model to balance
 administrative and teaching loads, with attention to incorporating impact case studies, PhD
 supervision. This helps protect junior staff from an overload of duties, whilst recognising and
 recording contributions.
 The department maintains a generous research and impact leave policy, offering staff one
 semester leave for every six semesters of teaching and admin service (more frequent than the
 University mandate of one semester leave for every eight semesters served). We have typically
 allowed new junior hires to take their first leave a semester early to help with finishing research
 outputs and grant applications.
 To enhance these formal support mechanisms, we run an in-progress series, where staff and PhD
 students have opportunities to share work in progress (including research projects, funding bids,
 and impact initiatives) and receive feedback. We also organise regular staff workshops designed
 to facilitate life-long learning by helping all staff gain hands-on experience of new developments
 in the discipline (often with external experts), including workshops on running film festivals (2016),
 creating video essays (2017), curating in the internet age (2018), and working with VR (2020,
 postponed due to Covid-19). All staff are encouraged to organise research events and/or
 contribute to the yearly speaker series.
 At the School level, every staff member receives an annual research travel fund (typically ca.
 £1,200) and individual library budget (ca. £500). The School also runs the annual review and

                                                                                                      Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development scheme, in which staff members meet with the Head of School annually to discuss
 both specific projects and wider goals in career development, covering areas such as publications,
 grant applications, impact activities, and longer-term leadership goals. These review and
 development meetings feed into promotion applications, overseen by the University. During the
 2014-2020 period, we had 3 successful promotions (1 from Reader to Professor and 2 from
 Lecturer to Senior Lecturer), with further promotions foreseen in the coming years.
 The University offers staff development services through Centre for Educational Enhancement
 and Development (CEED), which runs modules in professionalisation, career progression, and the
 acquisition of essential skills (e.g. public presentations, managing staff and research groups,
 digital skills, etc). These courses often form part of the annual review and development
 programme. Mentorship schemes are available (for example, for promoted staff at University
 level), as are external training opportunities for midcareer staff (e.g. Aurora). All staff members
 also receive hands-on and personalised support/feedback for research grant writing from a
 dedicated business development manager from the Research Business Development and
 Contracts team (RBDC), as well as assistance with costings through Financial Advice and Support
 (FAS). Support for impact projects is provided by the University Public Engagement team (PET).
 The University also runs a transparent promotions scheme, detailed criteria of which are available
 online to all staff members at all times.
 In addition to permanent staff, we work hard to support career progression for fixed-term staff.
 During the current REF period, we have employed four early career researchers in short-term
 Associate Lecturer positions (one ongoing). These staff members benefit from the same support
 mechanisms (mentoring, research travel funds, etc.) as permanent staff, and we make sure that
 they are fully integrated into the department’s research culture (organising events, presenting in
 our speaker series, etc.). The HoD, DoT and DoR work with limited-term scholars to devise the
 best possible combination of teaching and (appropriate) admin assignments in order to forge
 pathways to further employment, and we are proud that all three Associate Lecturers who
 completed their contracts with us could use their time at St Andrews to secure permanent posts
 at leading UK universities (two at St Andrews and one at University College Dublin).

 Equality and Diversity
 The University, department, and school are all committed to diversity, equality, and inclusion. Our
 department has an Equality and Diversity Officer, and diversity is an explicit criterion in all key
 decision and planning. This includes the composition of hiring committees (and of the 7
 appointments made between 2014 and 2019, 5 have been women and 2 men). It also includes
 our research and REF committee, which has consisted of 3 female and 2 male colleagues. All
 output assessors completed training in unconscious bias and ‘equalities in the REF’ and provided
 their assessments independently. In 2019 we gained Athena Swan Bronze accreditation working
 with the two other departments in the School.

 Equality and diversity is also an explicit consideration in our distribution of leadership roles (HoD,
 DoR, DoT, etc.), and we have consistently been able to reduce administrative burdens to staff with
 special circumstances, including illness, caring responsibilities and disability. In addition, diversity
 figures explicitly into all departmental research and teaching activities. We strive to maintain an
 equitable gender balance in the Departmental Speaker Series, which has included numerous
 specialists for topics in gender and race (e.g. So Mayer, Alison Landsberg). We also maintain a
 formal review procedure for module outlines, which provides an opportunity to identify areas where
 gender and minority representation could be increased. Recently, we implemented a policy of
 scheduling key departmental events within core hours (10am-4pm) to promote maximum
 inclusiveness for staff members. The University also has a flexible working policy, allowing staff
 to live within commuting distance (including Edinburgh) to accommodate a wide variety of living
 arrangements.

 PhD Support
 Our PhD students benefit from a multi-tiered support structure analogous to that of research staff.
 All PGR students are given a full induction and assigned a pastoral supervisor for the duration of

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 their study to ensure their well-being. In addition, students elect a PG Rep each year to represent
 them to the department, and all students have access to the DoPG at any time. The department
 also runs an annual review scheme, in which PGR students meet with two staff members not on
 their supervisory team to monitor progress, address concerns, or catch any problems that might
 have passed under the radar. In addition, all students are required to take Centre for Educational
 Enhancement and Development (CEED) courses in professional development during their first
 two years, and they are strongly encouraged to continue enrolling in such courses afterwards.
 PhD students also receive £300 annually towards conference travel and £100 for book purchases
 for the University library.

 PGR students have numerous opportunities to present their work in the department and beyond.
 First- and second-year students run an annual PG conference, where they learn to organise
 conferences and deliver presentations whilst also receiving feedback from the entire staff and the
 invited keynote speaker. Students run cohort-wide presentations of work in progress to which staff
 are invited for further feedback and suggestions. Our PG students are also active in organising
 research events and attending external conferences (e.g. Doing Women’s Film and Television
 History) with support from the department.
 The department offers other forms of professional support for PhD students, some unique within
 the UK. Our teaching scheme allows most of our
 PhDs to acquire essential classroom experience
 running module tutorials under the supervision of the
 Director of Teaching. Our students also have the
 opportunity to gain editorial experience by editing the
 department’s OA academic journal, Frames.
 Additionally, we run professionalisation sessions
 each year with topics suggested by students,
 including: CV presentation, conference abstracts, covering letters, designing a module, etc. The
 PGRs also organise an annual study day with an internal or external researcher, typically on a
 topic related to new directions in film and media. And the department has run several specialised
 skills-based workshop such as:
        •‘Remote Access: Conducting Archival Research at a Distance’ (2015), funding by the
          Scottish Graduate School for Arts and Humanities (SGSAH)
          •‘Setting the Scene: A Guide to Building Your Employability’ (2015), in collaboration with
          CEED.
          •‘Beyond the Thesis: Postdoctoral Projects and the Academic Job Market’ (2018), funded
          by the PGR Development Fund and in collaboration with School of Modern Languages
 At the same time, given a context of changing employment opportunities, we also recognise that
 we must find ways of supporting students preparing for careers beyond academia. This is
 something we intend to develop further in the coming REF cycle, but we have already taken steps
 in this direction, for example by widening the scope of our departmental collaborations and events
 with film and media professionals (e.g. directors, producers, curators, critics), and organising
 workshops and interdisciplinary retreats on issues of employability (e.g. the 2019 workshop ‘Film
 and Beyond: Engaging Film in Research, Academia and the Professional Job Market’, funded
 through the PGR Development Fund).


 Section 3. Research Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

 External Research Income
 One of our Staffing Strategy objectives, to recruit and support junior staff, has resulted in 100% of
 our research staff winning grants this cycle. This includes many smaller awards: e.g. British
 Academy (Cowan), Carnegie Trust (Donaldson, Flaig, O’Meara), Royal Society of Edinburgh
 (Iordanova) and the SGSAH (Rice). But it also includes a Leverhulme grant to support Rice’s latest
 monograph Films for the Colonies and Lovatt’s AHRC grant for Southeast Asian Cinemas

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Network. Whilst the total amount of recorded income during this REF cycle has been
 lower than the last round at £104.808, we also had significant successes with international funding
 not processed through the University financial office. The latter category includes Cowan’s 2018-
 19 fellowship from the Humboldt Foundation (€31,500), which funded research stays at the
 Cinepoetics Institute and Philipps Universität Marburg to write a monograph on the emergence of
 the film society; Iordanova’s Visiting Research Professorships at the University of Hong Kong and
 the Beijing Film Academy; Robert Burgoyne’s two fellowships from the Cinepoetics Institute; and
 Anuja Jain’s fellowship at the India Institute, King’s College London. Our PhD students have also
 had significant success capturing external funding (large and small) from sources such as SGSAH
 consortium, the Russell Trust, FIAF, the Latin American Studies Association, the European
 Commission (Film Literacy Fund), Santander Universities Fund, the British Council Newton Fund,
 the Austria Foundation, the Thailand Research Fund, and the China Scholarship Council.
 Looking ahead, we want to increase our efforts to translate research excellence into major grant
 capture, and we recognise the need to secure more large-scale grants, especially as colleagues
 move up the ladder (ILES, 4.1). To this end, the department has put in place a strategy for grant
 capture over the past year, which includes several pillars:
        •Supporting colleagues not already holding a significant grant in the preparation of
         applications on a yearly or bi-yearly basis, depending on the complexity of the project.
         Grant applications will also be included for consideration in review and development
         meetings and research leave applications.
         •Formalising peer feedback by including the sharing of granting applications (in addition
         to research outputs and impact projects) in our departmental ‘in-progress’ series for staff.
         •Organising regular departmental visits and one-on-one meetings with the Research,
         Business, Development and Contracts and the Financial Advice and Support teams to
         discuss applications
         •Introducing the strategic goal of having each research cluster develop a larger
         collaborative grant within their respective area.
 In addition, since PhD funding is becoming increasingly competitive, we are developing a strategy
 to maximise student funding success, which involves the promotion of supervisor-led PhD projects
 (to capture available funding from the University) plus other measures for increasing our success-
 rate for University funding (e.g. St Leonards Scholarships) and external funding from the SGSAH
 (where two of our staff members have sat on the review panel).

 Funding from the University and School
 Our department benefits from various forms of research funding from the School. In addition to
 the research travel fund for individual staff members mentioned above, the School has provided
 £2,000 annually for the departmental speaker series and £2000 annually to each of our two
 centres. The centre funding helps to support scholarly (speakers, round tables) and public
 engagement events (screenings, workshops with industry professionals).
 The University also offers vital forms of competitive funding for research and impact. Staff in Film
 Studies have been particularly successful at capturing funding from the Knowledge Exchange and
 Impact Fund, which has supported public engagement activities by Cowan, Donaldson, Iordanova,
 Lovatt, Rice, and Torchin (£23,766.38). In addition, the PGR Development Fund has supported
 PGR workshops organised by Donaldson, Flaig and several PG students. Our PhD students have
 also received numerous Scholarships administered through the University, including Laidlaw
 Scholarships, and Santander Scholarships.

 Research Infrastructure
 Our department occupies two dedicated buildings on North Street in St Andrews, which are
 administered by the School of Philosophical, Anthropological and Film Studies. All staff members
 have individual offices, and there is a separate large office for PGR students, with five desks and
 computers, a film screening station, and other office equipment. All PGR students have access to
 additional workspace in the PGR Research Library in the refurbished Martyrs Kirk.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our department buildings also house a dedicated room for research seminars, with space for ca.
 30 people and equipped with video projection, 7.1 surround sound, and specialised equipment
 (including Oculus Rift VR). This is where we hold our weekly departmental speaker series and
 most PGR events (as well as undergraduate tutorials). For larger and/or more specialized
 research events, the department has developed a close collaboration with the Byre Theatre, where
 we regularly hold seminars, film screenings, talks with visiting filmmakers, and workshops. The
 Byre includes a seminar space for ca. 30 people and a Studio Theatre with seating for 70, and an
 auditorium of 220 seats for larger events with industry professionals (e.g. Joe Russo). The seminar
 room is equipped with 3D projection for teaching and research (which enabled us, for example, to
 programme a series of 3D and VR screenings for the St Andrews Photography Festival on
 stereoscopy in 2018).
 The University has also continued to invest heavily in library-held AV collections, which now count
 over 9,300 titles, including numerous rare film collections and databases (in experimental film,
 ethnographic film, queer cinema, documentary, etc.). The department also maintains a wide array
 of specialised equipment, historical and contemporary, including a VR system, various analogue
 projectors (8mm, 16mm), and media-historical devices (zoetrope, camera obscura, etc.).
 In 2017-2018, the School undertook an administrative restructuring programme that has resulted
 in the creation of three professional support teams: UG, PG, and Research, meaning that in
 addition to a more resilient support structure, there are now two support staff dedicated entirely to
 research and impact. The School also has its own IT Officer for the distribution and maintenance
 of staff computers and specialised IT equipment, as well as websites (e.g. for the centres).

 Research Organisation
 Our shared research projects, events, and strategic discussions are organised through several
 interrelated frameworks.
 The cornerstone of the department’s research community is the Departmental Speaker Series,
 which brings in external speakers (both world-renowned scholars and early-career researchers)
 and also features department staff presenting works in progress. All staff and PG students are
 expected to attend. In 2018 we instituted a research blog, Spotlight on Research to showcase the
 work of both staff and PhD students in more depth. In addition, as mentioned, department staff
 operate two centres: the Institute for Global Cinema and Creative Cultures (IGCCC) and the
 Centre for Screen Cultures (CSC, formerly ‘Centre for Film Studies’), which organise research and
 impact events (talks, symposia, screenings and masterclasses) and support open access
 publications (such as the CSC Playlist Initiative instituted during lockdown to highlight research
 activity and guide people through the abundance of streaming materials available).
 There are also several staff-specific research meetings, including an annual research away day,
 for long-term strategic planning; quarterly research meetings; and an annual ‘Research
 Readings’ (open to the University), in which staff present work-in-progress and discuss areas of
 potential collaboration. All staff, including fixed-term colleagues, are invited to participate. PhD-
 run activities are part of this exciting roster. In addition to editing Frames Cinema Journal,
 students organise an annual PG Conference (open to all); an annual ‘study day’ on new
 directions in Film Studies (usually featuring an external researcher); and workshops for
 professional skills (e.g. presentation, CVs, conference submissions, etc.). The department also
 supports students organising their own symposia around shared research interests, with topics
 such as ‘Crossing Borders, Traversing Narratives’ (2015), the films of the Ukamau group of
 Bolivian filmmakers (2017), and ‘survival’ narratives in film, television, and video games (2019)—
 all supported by competitive funding.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 St Andrews researchers play a leading role in shaping and sustaining global research in Film and
 Media Studies. Our research networks stretch from North America to Asia, and all staff members
 enjoy reputations—commensurate with their career stage—as leaders in their respective
 subfields, where they hold preeminent positions in learned societies and editorial boards, organise


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 major conferences and events, engage in high-profile collaborations, and receive frequent
 invitations for lectures, keynotes and expert consultation.

 Professional Associations, Networks and Collaborations
 To begin with, our staff members play leading roles in all the major learned associations in our
 discipline, including:
        •BAFTSS: Multiple awards for our research (staff and students); Iordanova on the
        academic advisory committee of BAFTSS and the editorial board of Open Screens; Ana
        Maria Sapountzi as BAFTSS PG Rep; numerous presentations
        •SCMS: Multiple awards for our research; Flaig on JCMS editorial board and editor of
        ‘Professional Notes’ section (since 2016); Cowan on the scholarly awards committee
        (2017-18); numerous conference presentations; multiple publications in Cinema
        Journal/JCMS
        •NECS: Cowan on NECS steering committee; Iordanova on the advisory board of
        NECSUS; multiple presentations and publications in NECSUS

 In 2020, we organised the annual BAFTSS meeting on the topic of Screen Cultures, highlighting
 and developing our research strengths in global cinema, film historiography (including useful
 cinema) and audiovisual environments. Though the conference ultimately had to be postponed, it
 will be held in St Andrews in 2022.
 In addition, many staff play leading roles in the key specialised scholarly associations and journals
 for their respective subfields. Cowan serves as Vice President of Domitor; Lovatt sits on the
 executive committee of the Association of Southeast Asian Cinemas Conference; Torchin is a
 longstanding collaborator with Visible Evidence (including a previous keynote); and Cowan and
 Flaig are UK both board members of the German Screen Studies Network (which we are bringing
 to St Andrews starting in Autumn 2020). Our collective presence on editorial boards includes key
 journals in Film Studies and beyond, such as Journal of Cinema and Media Studies (Flaig),
 Intermédialités (Cowan), Mai: Feminism and Visual Culture (Donaldson, Torchin), Sound and the
 Moving Image (Lovatt) and others. Iordanova also serves on the advisory committee of numerous
 journals (Camera Obscura, Jump Cut, and others), as well as the Eastern European Cinema
 series at the University of Amsterdam Press.
 We also participate in numerous funded research networks and collaborations, including the
 AHRC-funded Southeast Asian Cinema Research Network, founded and led by Lovatt; the AHRC-
 funded Network on Chinese Film Festivals (Iordanova as member); the ACLS-funded project
 ‘Globalizing and Enhancing the Media History Digital Library’ (Cowan as representative for
 German-language journals); and the AHRC-funded project ‘Exploring Participatory Filmmaking as
 a Development Method to Address Gender Inequality in the Pacific’ (Torchin as Co-I in
 collaboration with researchers from Social Anthropology).
 Beyond such formal collaborations, our staff nourish countless other forms of research
 collaboration. They help sustain grassroots research networks such as the “Emergence of German
 Modernity” network (where Cowan is a founding member with scholars from Berkeley, Harvard,
 Tübingen and Vienna), the “Magnifying Class” network for film aesthetics (where Donaldson works
 with colleagues from Oxford, Warwick, Bristol and Reading), and the network of scholars
 contributing to the Playlist Initiative, developed within the Centre for Screen Cultures in response
 to global protests and pandemic (Spring 2020). Staff work with prestigious research centres such
 as Cinepoetics in Berlin (Cowan, Burgoyne), the Goethe-Institut Portugal (Rice), and the German
 Film Institute in the US (Flaig). And they regularly organise conferences, workshops and symposia
 around the globe, e.g. “Ten Years: Political Cinema in East Asia and Beyond” at the University of
 Hong Kong (Iordanova as lead organiser), “Space, Time and the Visceral in Southeast Asian
 Cinemas” at the Hanoi DocLab (Lovatt as lead organiser), the “Documentary Failures” symposium
 at Birkbeck (Torchin as co-lead organiser), and many others.




                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Further Markers of Esteem
 As academic leaders in their respective subfields, all of our staff members are regularly consulted
 for expert peer evaluations by leading funding bodies: Torchin and Cowan on AHRC Peer Review
 College; Rice and Torchin for the AHRC-funded Scottish Graduate School of Arts and Humanities
 (SGSAH); and numerous peer reviews for submissions to SSHRC, Israel Science Foundation,
 Dutch NWO, and others), tenure and promotion committees (in the US, Canada, UK and Hong
 Kong), awards committees (SCMS, Killam Prize of Canada), leading academic publishers
 (Columbia, Duke, Chicago, Oxford, etc.), and journals in Film Studies (Cinema Journal, Film
 History, Screen, etc.) and other disciplines (Art History; New German Critique; Journal for
 Genocide Research, etc.). Many staff are also invited to sit on PhD examinations in the UK and
 internationally (e.g. Canterbury, Edinburgh, Ghent, Lille, Singapore, Hong Kong, and others).
 But beyond these standard forms of service, we can also point to several outstanding distinctions,
 including:
        •A lengthy catalogue of prestigious research awards. Cowan won book and article awards
        from BAFTSS (2 awards) and SCMS (2 awards), as well as the Willy Haas Award for best
        book on German cinema, the Limina Award for best international film studies book, and a
        longlisting for the Kraszna Krausz award. Rice won Honourable Mention for the Indiefab
        Award and was runner-up for the BAFTSS book prize. Iordanova won honourable mention
        in the BAFTSS edited collection award. Our PhD students have also swept up many
        awards, including 3 BAFTSS awards for best student article (Isabel Segui, Anna Grgic,
        Patrick Adamson) and the Domitor student essay prize (Shruti Narayanswamy).
        •A steady stream of invitations for research presentations (ca. 100 in the current REF
        cycle), including some of the world’s top research universities such as Harvard,
        Cambridge, University of Chicago, Kings College London, Frankfurt University, etc.—as
        well other types of institutions such as the ‘Film Theory in Media History’ conference in
        Shanghai, the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (Delhi), and the European
        Commission (Brussels). These invitations also included ca. 20 keynote and plenary
        presentations at conferences such as MECCSA (Torchin), the Oxford Postgraduate
        German Studies Conference (Cowan), and the International Conference on the Image in
        Hong Kong (Iordanova).
        •Several prestigious visiting appointments, including two visiting professorships at the
        University of Hong Kong (Iordanova), two fellowships at the Cinepoetics Institute in Berlin
        (Burgoyne and Cowan), a fellowship at the India Institute, King’s College London (Jain)
        and a research stay at the Intstitut für Medienwissenschaft in Marburg (Cowan).

 Contributions to Economy and Society
 Beyond such academic distinctions, our research and impact work has helped to develop relations
 with a wide array of diverse users and audiences around the world. This is evident in our extensive
 work with film festivals. Iordanova continues to be a go-to expert for festivals across several
 continents, where she serves on juries (including Busan IFF, Yamagata IDFF) and gives master
 classes (Jihlava, Astra, Sale, Singapore, Macau, etc). Torchin, with Donaldson and Shacklock,
 has developed a sustainable departmental collaboration with Edinburgh International Film
 Festival, running regular (and consistently full) public workshops and discussions for festival
 audiences. Lovatt works with festivals in Southeast Asia, and has brought some of the work back
 to Scotland (Glasgow Short Film Festival) in exhibitions and symposia then picked up by
 International Film Festival Rotterdam. Lovatt and Torchin both collaborate with the Document
 Human Rights Film Festival in Glasgow on events, screenings, and Jury service. Many former
 doctoral students are also involved with global festivals, including Ana Grgic (Albania and the
 Balkan countries), Raluca Jacob (Romania), Yun-hua Chen (Germany), and Isabel Segui (Peru)).
 Other collaborations beyond the university include:
         -Collaboration with archives to enhance and valorise their collections (e.g. Cowan’s work
         with Media History Digital Library and the German Bundesarchiv; Rice’s work with the
         British Empire and Commonwealth Museum; Lovatt’s collaborations with the Thai Film
         Archive)
         -Work with filmmakers, curators and archivists (e.g. Donaldson’s work with Rose Bower)

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        -Organising public film-screenings and film-related exhibitions both at St Andrews and
        further afield
        -Contributions to DVD productions and television documentaries (e.g. Iordanova’s work
        with Criterion and BFI, Rice’s collaborations with BBC and the Smithsonian Channel for
        TV series on the Ku Klux Klan)
        -Writing for popular media outlets (The Conversation, New Republic, NY Times, The
        Guardian)
        -Film criticism (where Iordanova was recently named one of the 25 most influential female
        film critics in the world by Sight and Sound).
        -Involvement with grassroots film organisations (e.g. Hanoi DocLab in Vietnam, Forum
        Lenteng in Indonesia, and Green Papaya in the Philippines)
        -A long list of public lectures, collegia, masterclasses, roundtables, and film introductions
        (e.g. at the BFI, Close-Up Cinema and Dundee Contemporary Arts)

 St Andrews as Site for Research and Knowledge
 We also work hard to sustain the reputation of St Andrews as an international centre for high-
 profile research in Film and Media Studies. Through our speaker series and centres, we have
 brought world-renowned scholars to St Andrews, including Erka Balsom, Ira Bhaskar, Ian Christie,
 Rachel Dwyer, Thomas Elsaesser, Malte Hagener, Dana Polan, Maria Pramaggiore, Sarah Street,
 Rosie Thomas, William Urricchio, Tami Williams, and others. We have also brought in a wide array
 of filmmakers for colloquia and symposia, including Patricio Guzmán, Nishtha Jain, Alexandru
 Solomon. And we have held workshops with a range of film professionals, including producers
 and directors (Joe Russo, Mark Gil), festival directors (Azize Tan), curators (So Meyer), and silent
 film accompanists (Richard Michael, Neil Brand).
 Staff have also organised many larger symposia and conferences at St Andrews, including high-
 profile symposia run through the IGCCC—e.g. on transnational remakes (2016) and online film
 curation (2018). Other department symposia have addressed community filmmaking (Torchin, with
 Social Anthropology, 2018), cultural memory (Burgoyne, 2017) and male stardom (Girelli, 2017).
 These activities have helped to make St Andrews a leading centre of UK Film Studies and to
 make Film Studies one of the University’s most visible and vibrant disciplines.




                                                                                             Page 14
