Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: The University of Brighton
Unit of assessment: B11 – Computer Science and Informatics
1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1. Context and structure
Computer science researchers at the University of Brighton (UoB) have led a submission to the
RAE/REF since 1992. This REF2021 submission builds on our expertise in diagrammatic
reasoning and natural language generation with strategic expansion into software security and
privacy. We have significantly advanced our mission to lead high-quality research with global
partners (47% of outputs are co-authored with international collaborators, vs 34% in REF2014),
whilst delivering impact to national and international business and NGOs. Since REF2014 the UoA
has more than doubled research income, joined three Doctoral Training Programmes, and almost
quadrupled PGR conferrals.

Our expertise (15 FTE staff, 30 PGRs) is focussed on three research themes:
   • Visual Computing (VC): diagrammatic reasoning, visual languages, and computer graphics
      with cultural heritage applications (primary interest for 7 FTE, including Reader Fish, ECR
      Baimagambetov; and 9 PGRs)
   • Language and Data Processing (LDP): natural language generation and
      mathematical/statistical methods for data analysis (5 FTE, including Professor Belz,
      Reader Harris; 10 PGRs)
   • Secure Systems Engineering (SSE): software systems security and privacy (3 FTE,
      including Professor Mouratidis, ECR Polatidis; 11 PGRs).

The UoA is based within the School of Computing, Engineering and Mathematics. The Centre for
Secure, Intelligent and Usable Systems (CSIUS) was founded in 2017 (approved as a Centre of
Research and Enterprise Excellence (CORE) – see REF5a), providing a hub for UoA B11
researchers (12 staff, 16 PGRs, directed by Mouratidis) and acting as a vehicle for
interdisciplinary links with health, humanities, media and education (section 4). CSIUS
encompasses the SSE and VC themes and some of LDP; it is a European leader in SSE,
evidenced by the award of EU projects (with total budget of over €20m; see section 3), and official
recognition from the EU as a Cybersecurity Competence Centre.

1.2. Research and impact strategy
1.2.1. Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact since 2014
Our strategic aims, revised from those set out in REF2014, and evidence of their achievement are
outlined below:

Aim 1: Grow talent and develop future research leaders. As a result of our cultural heritage
expertise, we lead UoB’s contribution to the EPSRC Science and Engineering in Arts, Heritage,
and Archaeology CDT (SEAHA), which together with ESRC-South Coast DTP membership and
the EPSRC DTP formula allocation, provided 8 studentships. This, alongside strategic UoB
investment of 21 studentships, enriched our PGR environment, and PGR conferrals increased by
278% (39.7 vs 10.5 in REF2014). As a result of our strategic focus on supporting ECRs applying
for EPSRC First Grants/New Investigator Awards (Section 2.16), we were successful with 4
applications including 3 that were led by staff first entered as ECRs in REF2014. Ongoing
developmental support has enabled 4 staff who were ECRs in 2014 (Burton, Fish, Kapetanakis,
Rodriguez) to secure £1.12m from EPSRC and industry.

Aim 2: Invest in existing and emerging areas, extending our international influence.
Adjusting to a changing research landscape, we identified SSE as a strategic focus and invested in
its growth. We recruited a professorial lead (Mouratidis), who led on a targeted recruitment
strategy as part of succession planning. Establishment of the SSE area has resulted in securing 6
EU Horizon 2020 grants with 15+ international partners. Internal initiatives (eg Sabbaticals; see

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.14), have led to international discipline hopping in VC (Burton, EPSRC, EP/R043949/1) and EU
COST action (Belz, IC1307) leadership involving 28 countries in LDP (see 4.1).

Aim 3: Enhance impact capacity through partnership. We established over 40 non-HEI
collaborative partners (including Yahoo, Nokia, Fujitsu, The Pensions Regulator and GSK), and our
income includes over 75% with industrial collaborators, charities or policy makers. Internal
initiatives (Innovation funding; see 2.14), networking events, and our international outlook
stimulated partnership growth, whilst strategic investment (£479k) in laboratories, equipment (see
3.2), and CSIUS, provided essential infrastructure for collaborative impact-generating activity.

Aim 4: Grow a balanced and diverse funding portfolio. By leveraging our national and
international networks, and non-HEI partnerships, our research income has grown by 153% with
£1.18m from the EU, whilst industrial engagement, aligned with impact generation strategies, led to
an over 400% increase in income (to £1.64m) secured from industry and Innovate UK.
Diversification strategies for interdisciplinary projects led to 2 new Leverhulme Trust projects to
model cavities in the spinal column, and to guide the development of foundational approaches to
reasoning.

1.2.2. Intellectual achievements
Our staff have built upon long-standing external collaborations, yielding intellectual achievements
within the research themes (examples below), whilst developing new interdisciplinarity links and
enabling impact.

Visual Computing create theory, algorithms and software for diagrammatic visualisations, used
for scientific data presentation, and undertake fundamental evaluations of human perception and
their ability to interpret and reason with diagrams (Blake) in our bespoke laboratories (see 3.1).
Visual interfaces are designed and developed for personal resource management (Fish, with Di
Chiara, Poste Italiane – Software Factory Napoli, Italy), and to enhance the automotive
engineering data set exploration and analysis capabilities of industrial partners (Fish, with
Gargiulo, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, involving multiple site evaluations with industrial analysts). We
achieved major advances in Shape Understanding in computer graphics via mesh saliency
detection (Song), that are used as benchmarks in the field. Our creation of innovative methods and
tools for the design, development, fabrication and evaluation of interpretative experiences of 3D
artefacts in cultural heritage collections has driven change in the sector, being deployed by major
heritage institutions across the UK, Europe and Brazil (Rodriguez, [ICS_Heritage]).

Language and Data Processing have produced new methods for 2D image descriptions capable
for the first time of conveying 3D spatial relationships (Belz, with Malta University) as well as a
framework for conceptualising, annotating and automatically extracting information about drug
nonadherence from patient-generated text (Belz, with Brighton and Sussex Medical School and
Sussex Partnership NHS Foundation Trust). A breakthrough achievement was the development of
methods to estimate covariance matrices for big data applications (eg genomics, cancer research,
signal processing, and financial mathematics) thereby reducing computational costs (Touloumis).

Secure Software Engineering has, for the very first time in academia and industry, integrated
privacy into DevOps practises by developing processes and software tools that automate crucial
privacy-related processes (Mouratidis, Pavlidis). PGR students, and international collaborations,
were integral in the development of novel frameworks that introduce essential security and privacy
requirements in Cloud Computing, Business Processes and the Internet of Things (IoT) domains
(Fish, Mouratidis), realised with open-source tools (see 1.4). The creation of next generation
software platforms to support GDPR compliance, supported by novel privacy-by-design conceptual
languages, data mapping views, and data breach analysis and response techniques, generated
international interest (eg Greek/Latvian/Thailand Data Protection Authorities, Information
Commissioner's Office) and acclaim, with the work being awarded EU cyberwatching Project of the
Month for May 2019 (Mouratidis, Pavlidis).


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.2.3. Enabling interdisciplinary research and impact
Underpinning our research and impact success is an ethos of interdisciplinary working. Supported
by UoB’s strategic investment of Quality-Related research funding (QR), CSIUS has used £107k to
develop interdisciplinary research agendas and collaborations by promoting multi-disciplinary
membership (eg with Health Sciences), ‘application-led’ seminars, and start-up interdisciplinary
projects (eg leading to securing H2020 AI4HealthSec 883273 - see 3.1). CSIUS activities have led
to research outputs (eg new methods for the management of security-incidents in Healthcare
Critical Information Infrastructure Environments) and projects at disciplinary interfaces (eg at
Health and Security/Privacy). Moreover, interactions with other UoB Centres and Schools have
enabled interdisciplinary advances (eg Harris, with Phillips from the School of Pharmacy and
Biomolecular Sciences, created a new poroelastic model of the spinal cord and utilised video
experiments to develop new cell migration models). The joint Brighton and Sussex Medical School
(BSMS) enables collaborative interdisciplinary research, including through PGR co-operation (eg
3D visualisation technologies for medical training, supervised by Rodriguez and Smith, returned in
UoA A3). Our income diversification strategy of targeting funders specifically supportive of
interdisciplinarity led to our 2 Leverhulme Trust projects (one in collaboration with University of
Cambridge).

Our philosophy of engaging non-HEI partners fully within the research lifecycle ensures outcome
relevance and increases impact potential. We have supported staff to initiate and sustain partner
engagement through a £479k strategic investment in laboratories and equipment (eg 3D scanners,
HPCs required for cultural heritage and data processing applications; see 3.2), together with
innovation funding (eg to build demonstrable privacy software; see 2.14). VC have leveraged
longstanding partnerships to develop digital applications for cultural heritage that enabled
practitioners and institutions to transform the way young people, visually impaired, online and
visitor audiences experience and value cultural heritage collections (Rodriguez, [ICS_Heritage]).
In SSE, via EU projects (see 3.1) and new consortia, we have empowered public and private
sector organisations across Europe (eg PDMFC, a leading Portuguese company in ICT and
Information Security) to adopt a privacy-by-design approach across software services to ensure
compliance with privacy laws and regulations (Mouratidis, [ICS_PrivacySoftware]).

To increase translation of our ideas into industry, we encourage staff to engage in knowledge
exchange programmes through tailored sessions at development days delivered by our knowledge
exchange managers; all our staff attended at least one such session. In this census period, we
increased the number of Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) from 3 in REF2014 to 10
(£1.17m). This engagement ranked us 2nd in the UK for KTP income in the Information & Comms
sector (for data released up to 2018). We widen awareness of our research and impact
achievements by co-authoring with our non-HEI partners (21% of submitted outputs), together with
dissemination via social media outlets and a quarterly business newsletter that reaches over 450
SMEs.

1.3. Research and impact strategy to 2026
Our ambition is to yield academic, economic and societal gains through close connection with
partner needs. Over the next five years we will:

Aim 1: Advance the Artificial Intelligence agenda, exploiting synergies between themes.
Focussing our specialised expertise in an AI context, we will support adoption in key areas such as
health (eg linking with security and privacy via the AI4HealthSec project; see 3.1), whilst
contributing to advancing the national agendas in accountability, ethics and transparency (eg via
AI-explanations, visual interfaces for user-centred data analytics). Success measures will include
securing funding from UKRI and Horizon Europe, and development of an AI Impact Case Study for
the next REF.

Aim 2: Grow and strengthen research partnerships and collaborations. Strategic investment
in existing and emerging areas, together with Centre activities (eg interdisciplinary start-up
projects, industrial knowledge exchange events), will facilitate an increase in numbers of
                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
collaborative partnerships. Together with income diversification strategies (eg to MRC), and staff
time for grant writing (internal funding, sabbaticals), we will double the number of external grant
applications and income generated on collaborative projects.

Aim 3: Extend the reach, significance and accessibility of our research. By leveraging
established networks and partnerships, we will enhance our international reach and facilitate
further impact generation (measured by numbers of collaborative international and industrial
outputs, and industrial or societal effects). We will double the number of KTPs, with staff
benefitting from an expanded UoB KTP professional support base. The generation of
interdisciplinary projects across themes will enable exploitation of new routes to impact (eg data
processing within humanities, ArtsDRIVA; see 4.3). We will increase the volume of openly
available research-related artefacts, aiming to make all non-confidential research software, data
and models freely accessible (eg via GitHub).

Aim 4: Enlarge our UoA research base and develop new research and enterprise leaders.
Leveraging collaborative project growth, we will increase post-doctoral researcher numbers. By
supporting research independence and recruiting active researchers in response to natural staff
turnover, we will increase the diversity and quality of our research expertise. We will support our
Readers to share leadership roles and will increase the number of staff with UKCGE-
recognised research supervisor awards to capitalise on our PGR growth in the international
student market.

1.4. Open research and research integrity
We follow the Research Integrity and Ethics policies and procedures set at University level, and
training provided through the UoB Researcher Development Programme. A three-tier ethics review
system operates for all research projects, overseen by a University-level policy committee,
ensuring data protection in all our research. We contribute to the development of international
standards relating to GDPR (eg Mouratidis via membership of the BSI IOT/001 Privacy-by-Design
standards committee).

We share research findings and data in line with UoB policies and guidance (REF5a). UoA Open
Access compliance is 95% for the 105 journal articles or conference proceedings with ISSN
produced since 2018, and we make research-related artefacts freely available, instilling in PGR
students an open research culture. For example, Kapetanakis, with Jorro-Aragoneses
(Complutense University of Madrid), contributed to the creation of the open-source COLIBRI
recommender system (over 36k downloads); the R package ShrinkCovMat (Touloumis), realising
new covariance matrix methods, is freely available for reuse and has been downloaded more than
26k times; and tools including those to support security analysis in IoT systems developed by PGR
Mavropoulos (supervised by Fish, Mouratidis) are publicly available on GitHub. Belz organises
international shared task competitions under the GenChal umbrella, including the Surface
Realisation shared tasks (2018-2020), and the ReproGen shared task which aims to establish how
reproducible past evaluations have been and how to design and report human evaluations to
increase reproducibility.

2. People

2.1. Staffing strategy and staff development
2.1.1. Staff Profile
Our 15 FTE Category A staff comprises 13% Professors, 33% Readers/Principal Lecturers, 53%
Senior Lecturers, with 13% being ECRs, and 20% female; the median age range is 41-50, 7% are
reported as black, Asian, and minority ethnic (BAME), and 100% are on permanent contracts, work
full-time and have no declared disabilities. This profile aligns with the Advance HE sector average
for median age range (41-50) and gender balance (23% female), but includes a higher proportion
of full-time staff (sector: 68%), and a lower proportion with disabilities (sector: 5%) and reported as
BAME (sector: 27%). During the census period 47% of Category A staff were recruited, and 60%
were promoted at least once.
                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


2.1.2. Staffing strategy
Our ambition is to provide an inspiring and inclusive environment for staff, students and visitors.
Strategic goals for our staff are to: recruit outstanding researchers with potential to become future
leaders, whilst expanding our collaborative networks; refocus expertise, adjusting to a changing
research landscape, into areas of strategic growth that utilise close non-HEI partnerships to
address essential societal and industrial needs. Appointed in 2014 to a new strategic professorial
post, Mouratidis established our presence in Secure Software Engineering. We rejuvenated our
staff base, accounting for staff turnover, shifting some visual computing expertise to support growth
of SSE and data processing, with: Pavlidis, ECR Polatidis directly supporting SSE; Fallahkhair,
ECR Baimagambetov bringing Human Computer Interaction in cultural heritage expertise and
industrial Software Engineering experience; Chernov from Bedfordshire and Touloumis from
Cambridge, recruited into his first lecturing post, bringing expertise in complex data processing
methods and algorithms.

2.1.3. Support mechanisms for staff development
Annual Staff Development Reviews (SDRs) reflect on staff development, research achievements,
and future goals. The Research Mentoring Framework, introduced in 2016, and School Mentoring
Lead (Winter) encourage mentors and mentees to discuss and plan career development and
progress. All new staff and ECRs are allocated a research mentor and senior staff participate in
360-degree feedback. Mid-Career Researchers (MCRs) and senior staff are supported by
university-level leadership programmes (eg Belz, Fish, Rodriguez participated in a research
leadership scheme in 2014 and have subsequently held international leadership roles (eg steering
committee membership for IEEE Symposium on Visual Languages & Human-Centric Computing;
see 4.4)). We implement devolved leadership to develop future leaders, including Rodriguez as
the CSIUS Associate Director for Research Strategy, and Touloumis for Researcher
Development.

2.1.4. Internal research and enterprise funding for staff development
We support all staff, via mentoring, in applying for competitive University research funding
schemes (REF5a), enabling the development of research leaders, collaboration, publication and
grant applications. Rising Stars awards, which provide a first experience of leading a project,
enabled grant submissions (Savostyanov’s EPSRC New Investigator grant), international
collaboration and publication (Touloumis, with Cambridge and Columbia Universities). Innovation
Funding (Mouratidis, £20k) to develop industrially focussed grant applications, returned £120k
(Innovate UK) and led to a Privacy toolkit, presented to potential investors during the final round of
the CyberASUP programme. We benefited from 2 semester-long sabbaticals delivering
international collaboration and grant applications (eg Burton organised the Indian Winter School
on Diagrams, in Kolkata, extending collaborations with semioticians and philosophers, leading to
his EPSRC Discipline-hopping grant on the Applied Semiotics of Visual Modelling).

We invest QR funds, allocated via Schools, for staff development. Three staff benefitted from time
releases of up to 0.2 FTE for 1-2 years enabling publication and grant application development (eg
Winter’s Royal Society Newton Mobility grant application to support collaborative research and
development of long-term links with Universidade Federal Pelotas, Brazil). In addition to
conference support funds, seedcorn funding further enabled international network development
(Fish, ECR Polatidis with the University of Salerno, Italy), industrial collaboration investigating the
use of machine learning for enriching visual collections with metadata (Rodriguez), building an IoT
blockchain testbed (ECR Polatidis) and funding a series of task-oriented empirical studies
(Blake).

2.1.5. External developmental activities and leadership recognition
We have placed a strategic focus on supporting staff exchanges and secondments, developing
new expertise and partnerships. For example, Burton spent 9 months working alongside experts

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
in semiotics at the University of Bologna (via EP/R043949/1), leading to international collaborative
workshop organisation (Philosophy of Notation, Bologna, ~30 participants from Europe, Japan and
USA). Kapetanakis was seconded for 1 year to a London start-up (Gluru Ltd) to lead their
research and development teams in natural language processing using deep neural networks. Two
outputs from Kapetanakis helped drive inward-investment and the company subsequently doubled
in size.

We encourage staff engagement with international event leadership roles with our staff undertaking
12 international workshops as Chairs (for conferences, see 4.4). External activities, internal
schemes and mentoring help staff develop research leadership skills that are then rewarded
through the promotion framework: 60% of staff have been promoted at least once (67% of females,
58% of males), with staff obtaining permanent contracts following PGR (ECR Baimagambetov)
and postdoctoral Research Fellow (PDRF) positions (ECR Polatidis); Baimagambetov, Chernov,
Polatidis, Pavlidis have been promoted from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer; at Mid-Career
Researcher (MCR) and senior staff level, Kapetanakis, Rodriguez, Touloumis have been
promoted to Principal Lecturer (PL), Fish from Principal Research Fellow (PRF) to Reader, and
Belz from Reader to Professor.

2.1.6. Targeted support for ECRs
All new staff are given workload relief to establish their research (0.1 FTE for 2 years). PDRFs are
offered teaching opportunities to expand their professional portfolio, and gain experience via
interaction with project partners, improving career prospects. Out of 10 EU-funded (Horizon 2020)
fixed-term PDRFs supported in SSE: 6 have taken up lectureships in the UK (Brighton, Robert
Gordon, York) and internationally (Jordan, Greece, Nigeria); 1 secured a position as a Software
Engineer in a recognised industry leader for Metadata Management Solutions (Collibra, Belgium),
1 works for the European Union Agency for Network and Information Security (ENISA); and 2 are
active PDRFs (50% female) on current H2020 CyberSANE (833683) and AI4HealthSec projects.
We employ a policy of co-supervision for PGR students, pairing ECRs with established supervisors
to provide mentored supervisory experience (eg ECR Polatidis co-supervises 2 PGRs alongside
Kapetanakis and Pavlidis). Coaching ECRs in developing applications for EPSRC New
Investigator grants led to 4 new awards in the census period. Our approach in developing ECRs
into research leaders has led to 13 out of 15 Category A staff originally being hired as ECRs at
UoB. Other ECRs are prepared for subsequent successful academic or industrial careers, eg Ali
(Senior Lecturer, Brunel), Zhou (Senior Lecturer, Loughborough), Delaney (Bloomberg LP, a global
leader in business and financial data) and Nicholson (a solution architect at Hastings Direct, a
digitally focused general insurance provider).

2.2. Postgraduate Research students
Development of the next generation of researchers is central to our approach, with expansion of
our PGR base being central to this. We have 30 active PGRs and have achieved a 278% increase
in PGR conferrals (to 39.7, with headcount 45). Growth is underpinned by diversifying funding
sources, including staff fee waivers (Blake, Winter), industry and self-funded students (14
conferrals) and international government studentships (14 conferrals from Middle East countries).
Our success via the EPSRC DTP-algorithm, ESRC South Coast DTP, and EPSRC CDT SEAHA in
collaboration with Oxford University and University College London (7 active out of 8 awarded),
was augmented by UoB-funded investment via competitive studentships (8 active out of 21). UoB’s
engagement in SEAHA (£4.7m, 2014-2022) is led by us through our expertise in cultural heritage
(linked to Visual Computing). The programme has funded 4 of our PGRs, supported by 8 external
industrial and heritage partners (eg Smithsonian Museum Conservation Institute, Victoria and
Albert Museums) and world leading research groups (eg Fraunhofer IGD) under the CDT’s tri-
partite (academic, industrial, heritage) supervision model.

2.2.1. PGR recruitment and progression
The Brighton Doctoral College (BDC) oversees PGR student recruitment and monitors all EDI-
related aspects of selection. In 2019, intervention by the University’s BAME Student Ambassador
                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
led to a change in recruitment practices to ensure equity and inclusion (REF5a). Our PGRs are
33% female, 20% have declared disability, and 23% reported as BAME. Enhanced visibility via
online information about PhD research programmes, supervisors and research specialisms has
improved PGR recruitment. We actively support applications from international PGR candidates
from disadvantaged countries: of 21 UoB studentships received by us, 5 arose from competitive
international scholarships (4 conferrals, 1 active) for PGRs from countries including Nigeria,
Pakistan and Sudan. All PGR students have 2+ supervisors and a thesis panel to monitor
progress, complemented by annual reviews to ensure progress. Since REF2014, 2 PGR
Coordinators have been appointed by the School (Fallahkhair, Harris), coordinating the
recruitment of PGR students with the BDC, and subsequently acting as first point of contact for
PGRs and academics, aiming to enhance the PGR experience.

2.2.2. PGR training and support
New students receive a training-needs analysis, mapped against the Vitae Researcher
Development Framework. Methods and impact training are provided by the BDC Postgraduate
Researcher Development Programme. PGRs are encouraged to contribute to, and are supported
to attend, at least 2 conferences during their studies including at least one overseas, and we use
QR funds to supplement UoB’s Conference Support fund. This enables our PGRs to develop their
skills and networks, and has led to best paper awards (eg by PGR Samaroudi, with Rodriguez, at
the Immersive Learning Research Network Conference in London, and the Eurographics
Workshop on Graphics and Cultural Heritage in Vienna in 2018).

Networking opportunities are provided by DTP cohort events, an annual UoB-wide Festival of
Postgraduate Research, and a School-based annual PGR Research Conference. SEAHA students
spend the first year of their doctoral programme at UCL undertaking a Master’s degree, ensuring a
common basis across the different institutions and facilitating PGR community development;
SEAHA training events (4.4.1) also admit 2 of our PGRs, funded by other means, as SEAHA-
aligned students. Training PGRs to become research leaders, we support leadership role
engagement (eg the 3rd International Conference on Science and Engineering in Arts, Heritage,
and Archaeology was chaired by our PGR Webb).

2.2.3. PGR supervision and destinations
We have experienced supervisors covering all themes (eg Mouratidis in SSE, Fish in VC, and
Harris in LDP, all with 8+ completions), with Fish recently awarded UKCGE recognised research
supervisor status, and external co-supervision further expands our supervisory capacity. Career
destinations for our PGRs include lectureships and senior positions internationally (eg Abubakar,
Rector at Katsina State Institute of Technology and Management, Nigeria), research posts and
senior roles in the UK and international industrial sectors (eg Mavropoulos, Head of Engineering,
CyberLens, Greece; Burlutskiy, AI Scientist, Early Oncology R&D, AstraZenica, Cambridge, UK).

2.3. Ensuring equality, diversity and inclusivity
We are a multinational community of staff, students and visitors from diverse backgrounds, and
countries (eg Greece, Iran, Mexico, Nigeria, Russia and Turkey). At the heart of our commitment to
an inclusive workplace is the wellbeing of our staff and PGRs, our culture expects issues to be
discussed openly and staff undertake mandatory online training (EDI Essentials, Unconscious
Bias, Interviewing & Recruitment, Managing Diversity, Dignity at Work). The University provides
additional training (eg on LGBTQ, trans and disability awareness).

UoB is one of only 17 HEIs to hold a Bronze Race Equality Charter, is a Disability Confident Level
2 employer, holds Athena SWAN institutional Bronze, and is in the latest submission of the
Stonewall Top 100. Fallahkhair, Fish and Rodriguez are on the School’s Athena SWAN
committee, contributing towards the School’s bronze award in 2019. Our Athena SWAN action
plan’s progress is overseen by the School Equality & Diversity Committee, comprising academic,
administrative and technical staff and PGRs. All decision-making committees at School and Unit
level are representative in terms of seniority and gender, with membership scrutinised by the
committees. Equality impacts are assessed for policy documents developed by these committees
                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and for all conference, training and research support allocations. Internal funding schemes are
subject to an annual EIA (since 2017) that covers gender, disability and ethnicity.

Measures are in place at University, School and UoA level to promote inclusion and deliver the
University EDI Strategic Plan and Race Equality Charter Action Plan. We have established BAME
mentoring and allyship programmes, offer bespoke promotion workshops, and leadership and
management development programmes for BAME staff. EDI aspects of appointments, including for
internal research leadership roles (eg Centre Directors), are overseen by Human Resources.
Women hold key School leadership roles, including the Associate Dean for Research and
Enterprise, and the Computing Research Lead (Belz). Computing researchers were represented
by 5 members in the University’s Women of Impact celebration of International Women’s Day
2018.

Researcher development activities run during core hours and rotate between days so that part-time
staff and those with caring responsibilities are not disadvantaged. Schools offer a Returning to
Research Fund to support staff returning from an extended period of parental leave or ill health.
We strive to minimise the use of fixed-term contracts to provide stability for career development:
97.4% eligible staff and 100% of those with a significant responsibility for research are on
permanent contracts, as are all lecturing staff appointed since 2014.

Our REF Leadership Team comprised 6 staff with 33% female, and 50% of our Impact Case
Studies were led by women. Output selection and attribution of outputs were agreed by the
Leadership Team at a selection meeting, with the primary inclusion criteria being pre-agreed
quality judgements following internal reviews. An equality impact assessment on selection and
attribution of outputs demonstrated proportionality for mid-career stage researchers (53% outputs
selected vs 52% staff) with slight variations for gender (14% outputs vs 20% female staff), early
career stage (5% ECR vs 10% staff) and within the professoriate (16% vs 10% staff).

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1. Research funding, strategies and awards
Our strategy for generating research income, to ensure sustainability and facilitate growth, is to
provide financial and mentoring support for all new researchers so that they can obtain external
grants, whilst encouraging staff to diversify income sources. Since 2014, we targeted (i) EU
funding, extending our international influence; (ii) Innovate UK/industry funding, increasing
alignment of research and impact activities; (iii) EPSRC, developing new researchers into future
leaders; (iv) UK charities for diversification. We have used expertise in the CSIUS to support a
widening of our base of funders (to include EU, EPSRC, Leverhulme Trust, and Innovate UK) and
external research funding has increased by 153% since REF2014.

Our EU income has grown (£1.18m vs £439k in 2014), with 7 projects, primarily aligned with the
Digital Security and the Information and Communication Technologies topics of Horizon 2020. This
stems from our income strategy of targeting these funding streams and developing large networks
across academia, industry and public administration. By utilising our expertise and positioning, we
address challenges from multiple perspectives. H2020 projects VisiOn (653642, £292k, 12
partners, overall budget €3.16m)/MITIGATE (653212, £255k, 12 partners overall budget
€3.55m)/DEFeND (787068, £311k, 10 partners, overall budget €3.33m), adopt
citizens/industrial/software engineering perspectives, creating novel privacy-by-design
methodologies that have financial, business and societal impact on organisations across the world
[ICS_PrivacySoftware]. We develop state-of-the-art methods and techniques to deal with
cybersecurity challenges in specific sectors including telecommunications (H2020 SESAME
671596, £234k, 19 partners, overall budget €8.27m), critical infrastructures (ongoing H2020
CyberSANE, 15 partners, overall budget €6.15m) and health care (ongoing H2020 AI4HealthSec,
13 partners, overall budget €5m). These projects have enhanced our international reputation and
influence through collaboration with 28 industrial partners (eg Atos, a global leader in digital
transformation, and a European leader in Cybersecurity, Cloud and Supercomputing) in 13
                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
countries (eg Portugal, Spain, Austria, Italy, UK), 5 national research centres (Greece, Italy,
Slovenia, France, Germany), 6 universities (in Belgium, Greece, Germany, Italy, UK), 15 end users
including hospitals (eg Klinikum, one of the largest municipal hospitals in Europe), ports (eg
Piraeus Port Authority in Athens), public authorities and critical infrastrucutures (in Spain,
Germany, Greece, Bulgaria, France, Italy). Building on our earlier EPSRC Network on Vision &
Language (EP/H018557/1, 250+ members), Belz led an international team of researchers from
Greece, Ireland, Belgium, Spain and Italy in applying for a European COST Action (acceptance
rate < 5%) for a European Network on Integrating Language & Vision (£520k overall budget);
Action networking was reported to EU as underpinning 35 successful scientific missions, initiating
new research collaborations and 7 new projects (including 3 H2020 projects).

Our industrial-facing funding has grown (£1.64m vs £328k in REF2014), and we have broadened
the number of Innovate UK grant holders (8 vs 3). This stems from our industry engagement
strategy, utilising extensive networking (eg at Strata Data) and leveraging existing partnerships to
enable co-application for Innovate UK grants. For example, a successful pilot project with Network
Rail and South-eastern on Visual Data Mining on Big Data (2014-15, £99k) led to Kapetanakis’
project for South-eastern, Govia, on Big Data Analytics on sub-threshold delays using fuzzy and
probabilistic reasoning (2015-17, budget of £2.1m, with £378k to UoB), developing accurate
models to reduce train delays and thereby reduce fines imposed. Impact generated from Innovate
UK’s KTPs has included job creation (2 engineers) at BCMY (Knowledge management
development for Enterprise Systems, £175k). Software developed for Graduate Recruitment
Bureau’s tool (Autonomous user profile identification for social engines, £137k) contributed to the
opening of a London site with a dedicated team (Expert Hire, 6 recruiters). Another Innovate UK
project (Mouratidis, £120k) focused on the commercialisation of privacy engineering research and
the development of a tool to support DevOps to incorporate privacy analysis and compliance. Data
analysis from the ongoing Innovate UK project with Parafix Ltd (Belz, £72k, with UoB budget
£243k) to automate planning and scheduling processes using artificial intelligence has uncovered
insights about cutting tool pressure changes, leading to efficiency gains for the company.

Training and investment in future leaders have grown our income generation capacity, with 6 staff
(all ECRs in 2014) attracting funding (£1.35m) during the census period, accounting for 36% of our
total. Our income diversification strategy yielded a new source of funding from UK charities
(Leverhulme Trust, £295k) for interdisciplinary projects: A Mathematical Model of the Formation
and Growth of Cavities in the Spinal Cord (Harris), where the results of biological experiments
provided the model’s numerical values of parameters (eg density, Young’s modulus) of the tissues
in the cord; and Accessible Reasoning with Diagrams (Stapleton), which used empirical studies to
guide the development of foundational approaches to reasoning, building upon one of our four
EPSRC new investigator projects (total £374k) on readability of proofs in diagrammatic logics
(Burton, EP/M011763/1).

3.2. Infrastructure supporting research and impact
UoB Research Services play a pivotal role in assisting our staff to secure funding by providing
support for bid-writing, identifying commercial opportunities, sourcing industry and community
partners, administering projects, and facilitating training workshops. Research management is
supported by the School’s Research & Enterprise Committee, which administer QR funds and
manage research integrity, researcher development and local delivery of the Research Concordat
Implementation Plan; membership is inclusive in terms of gender and career stage, and include
research theme leads, Centre Directors, ECR, PDRF and PGR representatives. Mouratidis directs
CSIUS, supported by Associate Directors Rodriguez for Research Strategy, Touloumis for
Researcher Development, and Fotis (from UoA A3) for Outreach.

The offices used by our staff and PGRs in the Cockcroft building, together with laboratories, were
renovated through a £26m refurbishment in 2015, which won an Architects’ Journal Retrofit Award,
providing a modern academic and learning environment.



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Visual Computing Facilities. The Digitisation Lab, led by Rodriguez, is used to underpin
research for applications within industry, the creative sectors and cultural heritage institutions. It
contains specialist processing equipment (£51k), fixed and hand-held 3D scanners (£73k), a
Reflectance Transformation Imaging (RTI) acquisition dome, VR equipment, and a
stereolithography 3D printer. The laboratory and equipment are essential for the digitisation of
artefacts and environments, and the production of accurate digital images and 3D models. This
supported 7 PGR projects, research training for postgraduates and heritage professionals on
digitisation, facilitated research proposal development in collaboration with other institutions
[ICS_Heritage]. The User Centred Design Laboratory, led by Fallahkhair, contains eye-tracking
and EEG technologies to acquire perceptual, cognitive and behavioural knowledge of participants,
with wide screen HD monitors to display visual stimuli, together with a noise-free, constant-
temperature controlled room. It has been essential for conducting empirical experiments,
deepening understanding of the efficacy of diagrams (Blake, Touloumis) and informing the design
of smart environments for cultural heritage (Fallahkhair).

Language and Data Processing Facilities. Investment in a dedicated high-performance
computer cluster (£70k), hosted by our School, together with 0.4FTE technical support (supported
by QR funds) for development and maintenance, enables fast parallel computations for
uninterrupted in-house simulations. This complements our existing collections of high memory
machines and servers. Together, these have been essential in applying deep learning techniques
and visual computing capabilities, underpinning 5 PGR projects. Additionally, we use the Data
Laboratory, which provides offices and computers for up to 20 businesses as well as meeting and
event space, and computational facilities (service owner Belz) funded by a Local Growth Fund
grant and linked to the £1.1m EDRF-funded Digital Research Innovation Value Accelerator project
(DRIVA, returned in UoA34; see 4.3).

Secure Systems Engineering Facilities. The Security & Privacy Laboratories, created in 2014,
led by Mouratidis, contain high performance computers to support the design and analysis of
security and privacy requirements, and network isolation capabilities for penetration testing and
malware detection (isolated from the University network). Our research results (methodologies,
tools) are installed in the labs, providing specialised capabilities for use in contract research and
research projects. Internet of Things equipment support the development of innovative testbeds,
enabling security and privacy experiments (eg a testbed was used to establish guidelines for
potential attacks in IoT devices in the project SESAME).

We share resources across HEIs in collaborative research for essential computations utilising in-
house and external (eg Savastayanov, a Balena High Performance Computing Service at the
University of Bath) machines. Close interactions with industry have led to Nvidia Inc contributing
hardware, software and instructor time in delivering tutorials for a Summer School on Integrating
Vision and Language with Deep Learning, which in 2016 trained approximately 100 EU students,
academics and industry representatives (Belz). Google contribute 1 month of staff time and
support including access to their internal evaluation services every year for the annual Multilingual
Surface Realisation Shared Task (Belz), enabling benchmark development for evaluation. Gluru
Ltd. provide access to several Terabytes of their datasets for Natural Language Processing
research and access to their hardware, used in the creation of semi-automatic business knowledge
acquisition mechanisms and domain feature decoding (Kapetanakis with Amin, German Research
Center for Artificial Intelligence).

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1. Arrangements to support collaboration with academic colleagues at other HEIs
Our researchers have collaborated with 55+ research institutes, drawn from 16 countries, including
17 UK institutes (eg Cambridge, Liverpool, Oxford), and 38+ international (eg Sapienza, Stanford).
Collaboration with academic partners is facilitated by: financial support, mentoring and annual
SDRs, where staff are encouraged to develop their academic profile through research networks


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and consortia; solidifying partnerships and enlarging the reach of our networks via events and
projects; and promoting PGR supervisory teams to include external members.

Financial support (see 2.14) facilitates collaboration with existing networks (eg Touloumis’ Rising
Stars award enabled collaboration with CRUK Cambridge Institute and EMBL-European
Bioinformatics Institute on statistical analysis of multi-tissue gene expression data). Our
participation in discipline-specific workshops, events and conferences, external HEI visits (eg Fish,
ECR Polatidis to the University of Salerno), and invitations of national experts to deliver seminars
are supported using QR funds. We also apply for external funding for international visitors (eg
Royal Academy of Engineering funding for Prof. Mylopoulos with University of Toronto, Canada,
which included workshop organisation, with attendance from 8 Universities); international research
scholars and fellows (eg from Malta, China, France, Japan, and Brazil) visit for periods of up to
several months.

Collaborations with the University of Sussex have been enabled via a Brighton-Sussex
Collaborative Research Fund (eg £10k to Rodriguez for community technologies). The joint
Brighton and Sussex Medical School facilitates collaborative interdisciplinary research between
Universities, benefitting us via: collaboration in knowledge extraction from patient-generated texts
(Belz); co-supervision of PGR students (Rodriguez); diffusion tensor brain image method
development identifying Multiple Sclerosis (Fish, with PGR Elsheikh, Zhou (Loughborough) and
Cercignani (Sussex)).

National and European funding has enabled joint research projects and collaborations with
academic colleagues in other institutions. Notable examples of success include:
    • 6 EU-funded projects with Mouratidis in Secure Software Engineering (with total value of
       over €20m) have grown our collaborative networks with 15 HEIs worldwide.
    • Leadership of international networks (chaired by Belz) integrating language and vision,
       supported by an EU COST action, with 28 countries represented on the management
       board. The COST action led to the organisation of 7 workshops (co-located with leading
       conferences in various fields), 3 summer schools, 23 publications, around 30 datasets for
       multi-lingual annotations for existing datasets, 7 funded collaborative projects, and 170
       new researchers introduced to the field through training schools, involving leading
       researchers from industry and academia.

The successful outcome of these arrangements is evidenced by: 93% Category A staff have co-
published with researchers from other HEIs; 74% of the outputs in this submission are co-authored
with external academic partners, with 47% written with non-UK partners from 13 different countries;
over 37% of our external research income has other HEI partners.

4.2. Relationships with research users and how these enrich the research environment
To develop interdisciplinary user-inspired research that contributes to addressing societal
challenges we initiate and maintain long-term relationships with users and beneficiaries in areas
such as Digital Health, Digital Humanities, Education and Critical Infrastructure. We engage
stakeholders to elicit their requirements in practice, working with them throughout the research
lifecycle to ensure relevance and increase societal impact potential. This has led to collaborations
with over 40 different national and international companies, public sector organisations and
charities, including Google, Nokia, The Pensions Regulator, as well as museums and heritage
organisations (eg Royal Pavilion Museums); our submitted outputs include 21% with industrial co-
authors, and external research income includes over 75% with industrial collaborators, charities or
policy makers.

Initial engagement with users and beneficiaries is facilitated by UoB Research Services, through
networking (eg at our Industrial Advisory board, with companies such as East Sussex County
Council, American Express and Gatwick Airport) and via past (eg 3D-COFORM project, see
[ICS_Heritage]) and present consortium projects (eg DRIVA, making Gatwick’s data more
accessible). Partnerships are developed and maintained via mechanisms such as: internal funding
to pilot projects (eg Rodriguez’s Impact Award to co-develop research solutions that addressed
                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Brighton Museum and Art Gallery’s needs for development of the new Archaeology Gallery); direct
engagement with partners via KTP projects (eg Family Law Partners), knowledge exchange with
stakeholders through visits, as well as collaborative arrangements for PGR training (eg SEAHA
PGRs with both heritage and industrial partners supervising). Successful partnerships and events
generate further contracts (eg with The Pensions Regulator, on data analytics and AI to support
the Automatic Enrolment directorate, that led to workshops with The Pensions Regulator’s security
team). We also host visitors from commercial and third-sector organisations (eg BCMY Ltd, NHS
trusts, Nokia) to facilitate opportunities for prolonged interactions, and staff take secondments in
companies (eg Kapetanakis with Gluru Ltd).

International stakeholder interaction enhances the reach of our researchers’ influence and impact.
The European network on integrating vision and language (Belz) had over 400 members from 28
countries, supporting links with over 30 institutions and companies around the world (with co-
applicants including Yahoo Inc.). Rodriguez hosted a collaborative workshop Strategies for
safeguarding and (re)building resilient cultural heritage (funded by the Accelerator Scheme for
International Networks and Impacts), with users and stakeholders from Brazil, Egypt and Mexico
co-designing a research agenda.

4.3. Contributions to the sustainability of our disciplines and responsiveness to national
and international priorities and initiatives
Our staff provide intellectual leadership to national and international committees of professional
associations and research networks. For example, Mouratidis’ participation in UK wide activities
(eg Expert Fellow of the ESPRC NetworkPlus SPRITE+), membership of standards committees
(eg BSI IOT/001 Privacy-by-Design, providing the UK contribution to the upcoming ISO 23485
standard and IST/015 Software and Systems Engineering), and leadership of international working
Groups (eg elected Vice-Chair of the International Federation for Information Processing WG11.14
on Secure Engineering), enabled us to lead international strategy on Secure Engineering and
international standards development on Privacy-by-Design. Standard evaluation methodology is
essential in ensuring sustainability of a discipline; towards this goal, Belz has led an international
effort in benchmarking and evaluation focused around Shared Task organisation since 2007
(recently on Surface Realisation and Reproducibility of Human Evaluations in Natural Language
Generation).

Our research exploring user engagement and experience of ubiquitous computing technologies in
heritage settings (Winter) has increased awareness, shared best-practice guidelines, and
improved learning in the heritage sector by disseminating findings through trade shows, events
and professional publications that have reached over 20,000 online, and over 8,000 in print.
Kapetanakis’ proposal to the Rail Safety and Standards Board for changing the performance
monitoring standards by National Train Operator Companies was accepted as a deliverable
(considered to be a standard by 2025).

We provide essential support for industry-facing data-processing needs, facilitating interdisciplinary
research and increasing regional competitiveness. For example, the Digital Research & Innovation
Value Accelerator (DRIVA) project (returned in UoA34) is a collaboration with Gatwick Airport Ltd,
making their flight and commercial data accessible to SMEs to create new products and services
for the open market. Belz, Touloumis, Song (with Sinah from Brighton Business School) co-
developed AI/data solutions with SMEs, creating software to access live Gatwick Airport flight and
commercial data; we provided data sets and training to over 100 SMEs via the Data Driven UXD
programme that included Vodafone, IBM, Tesco and Booking.com. The linked ArtsDRIVA project
introduced 13 artists to emerging technologies (immersive, interactive, 5G and quantum
computing) to utilise in their practices.

4.4. Wider influence, contributions to and recognition by our disciplines
We advise nationally and internationally, with Rodriguez being a member of the Executive Board
of the Eurographics Association, and Winter advising the Management Board of QueenSpark
Books on digital strategy. Belz chaired the Management Board for the European COST Action on
                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Integrating Vision and Language (IC1307, 2014-2018), was a member of EPSRC Network RefNet
(EP/J019615/1, 2012-2016), and served as lead reviewer for 4 European Commission reviews of
FP7 and H2020 projects. Mouratidis has been chair/member of international funding body panels
(eg EU, Norway, Belgium, and Australia), and served on advisory boards (eg EU-funded projects
SHIELD/GUARD, the US Department of Energy), and a working group from the European
CyberSecurity Agency tasked to define and propose a skills-and-competences framework for
cybersecurity). Within the UK’s remit, Belz, Fish, Mouratidis, and Rodriguez are EPSRC Peer
Review College members, and Belz regularly serves on EPSRC funding prioritisation panels.

Fish, Mouratidis, Rodriguez have been members of 10 editorial boards (eg Mouratidis for the
Requirements Engineering Journal; Rodriguez for the ACM Journal of Computing and Cultural
Heritage) and 5 staff (Belz, Burton, Fish, Mouratidis, Pavlidis) have guest-edited 6 special
issues (eg Belz for the Journal of Natural Language Engineering, Burton for the Journal of Logic,
Language and Information, and Fish as managing guest editor for the Journal of Visual Languages
and Computing).

We have held leadership roles in major conferences and symposia, for example: Steering
Committee membership (eg IEEE Symposium on Visual Languages & Human-Centric Computing
(Fish), IEEE International Conference on Research Challenges in Information Science
(Mouratidis), and Eurographics Working group of Computer Graphics and Cultural Heritage
(Rodriguez)), and 11 general/program chair roles by 4 staff (Belz, Fish, Harris, Mouratidis) with
Harris, Mouratidis organising international conferences in Brighton. We provide academic
leadership via keynotes at International Conferences (eg on Natural Language Generation (Belz)
and the Next Generation Enterprise Modelling in the Age of Internet of Things (Mouratidis)).
Researchers have received recognition: best paper awards (eg Digital Heritage (Rodriguez),
Diagrams (Burton)), and nomination (Belz) for the NAACL Test of Time Award 2018, which
recognizes two papers each year for their lasting impact on the Computational Linguistics field.

4.4.1. Cooperation and collaborative arrangements for PGR training
Whilst participating in collaborative and interdisciplinary DTP/CDTs, we supported all 57 SEAHA
PGRs across UoB, UCL and Oxford, through digital training on the SEAHA MRes, bespoke
international training in collaboration with colleagues at CNR-ISTI (Pisa) and follow-up training on
Heritage Enterprise and Digital Methods. The 3rd International Conference on Science and
Engineering in Arts, Heritage, and Archaeology was held at the University of Brighton, 2017, run by
SEAHA PGRs, and chaired by our PGR Webb, with around 140 participants and presenters from
UK, Poland, Germany and Belgium. In 2018, we organised the largest of the annual SEAHA
residential training events, at which 44 PGR students from Brighton/UCL/Oxford engaged in two
days of PhD and career development events and student-led planning and support activities.
Additionally, staff provide PGR training internationally (eg in 2017, Fish delivered an advanced
interdisciplinary course at the European Summer School in Logic, Language and Information,
which attracts around 400 participants every year).

4.5. Engagement with diverse communities and publics through research
We engage industry, public authorities and beneficiaries by organising seminars and knowledge
exchange events (eg on Privacy and GDPR, attended by local companies and public authorities
such as NHS and the Brighton and Hove City Council) and exhibitions (eg at the Museum and
Heritage show). We raise awareness of our research and impact via engagement with wider
public-facing events including school/college and public talks national and regional science/STEM
fairs and festivals (eg Brighton Digital Festival, Universities Week, and the SEAHA Mobile Heritage
Lab at British Science Festival). We target events at communities across age ranges (eg
CoderDojo Brighton, a free coding club for young people encouraging creativity; Codefest (ECR
Baimagambetov), a monthly term-time event with software engineering problem-solving activities,
with mentors from local companies such as Brandwatch; presentations to Lewes University of the
3rd age (Pavlidis, cyber security research to around 50 members), and organise events with
community stakeholders (eg Belz, international AI research competitions with Google). Rodriguez

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
undertook collaborative research with community partners and the University of Sussex to
investigate technologies that connect communities to their urban landscape, leading to a best
paper award at the Eurographics Workshop on Graphics and Cultural Heritage. PGRs and staff in
the STEM ambassadors programme engage in community activities, complementing active
research engagement, such as enabling school children, disadvantaged young people and
visually-impaired audiences to interact with history and arts in more inclusive and engaging ways
(Rodriguez) – eg via 3D-printed replicas that help (partially) blind audiences to experience works
of art normally exhibited in glass cabinets, and creative ways to interact with local histories to
support wellbeing and a sense of identity within members of the community (see [ICS_Heritage]).




                                                                                           Page 14
