Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Bath
 Unit of Assessment: Education
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit Context
 Education research at the University of Bath is internationally recognised for its applied
 interdisciplinary focus in tackling societal challenges and complex research questions of national
 and global significance. Over the past seven years, the strategic emphasis on high quality
 research has led to a significant growth in research income through bids won, increases in
 numbers of high-quality publications, and growth in Category A staff. We have seen concomitant
 growth in the number of doctoral degrees awarded, in the expansion of our suite of doctoral (PhD,
 EdD and DBA) programmes, and the development of two new MA programmes (MA in
 International Education and Globalisation and MA in English Medium Instruction) which align
 increasing research expertise in these fields with research-informed teaching. Our research
 environment is structurally robust and culturally vital. We integrate insights from across the
 disciplines conventionally associated with educational research with newer and emerging
 conceptual frameworks to interrogate educational inequalities in a globalised world, to produce
 critical analyses of educational theory and practices, and to inform policy change. The Education
 UoA includes staff from the Department of Education, the International Centre for Higher
 Education Management (ICHEM) in the School of Management, the Institute for Policy Research
 (IPR), and a colleague from the Department of Economics. We collaborate with research groups
 across the University on problems of shared interest, and with research centres around the world.
 We engage with a wide variety of public and private sector partners, in research and knowledge
 exchange, to enable transformative change and secure strong social impact. Our research
 strategy (see 1.3) is underpinned by collaborative working practices that aim to deepen the quality
 of bids, grants and publications, improve the scope and reach of research, and generate strong
 societal impact.
 The following table indicates our strengths in three main research areas:

                            Education Research at the University of Bath
          Sociology of Higher                International Education,                Language and Education
        Education & Sociology of          Globalisation and Development
              Education
      • National and international        • Education, globalisation and          • Language culture, socialisation,
        Higher Education systems,           labour markets;                         and identity in education and
        policies, practices, pedagogies   • International, comparative and          professional learning contexts;
        and inequalities;                   citizenship education;                • Global Englishes, English as a
      • Schools, families, and informal   • International schools:                  Lingua Franca (ELF); English
        education contexts;                 organisation and cultures, policies     Medium Instruction (EMI); English
      • Theorisations of decoloniality,     and practices; learning and             Language Teaching (ELT); English
        epistemic and social justice in     curricula;                              for Specific Purposes (ESP);
        HE and schools;                   • Educational leadership and              English for Academic Purposes
      • Methodological use of trans-,       governance.                             (EAP);
        multi- and interdisciplinary                                              • Language policy and language
        theorisations of institutional                                              learning.
        and academic practices;
      • Staff/student relations;
      • Well-being.



 Our research engages with some of the major educational problems faced by national and
 international educational systems, institutions, governments and third sector organisations. It
 aligns with key global challenges, such as the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals,
 UKRI research priorities and funding streams (Global Challenges Research Fund), and charities’

                                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 priorities. Our core research areas are operationalised through Research Clusters, Special
 Interests Groups and the work of our Centres (see 1.2). These embed the vitality of our research
 into organisational structures which enable dynamic and sustainable optimisation of our strengths
 in leading, responding to and helping shape international research agendas.
 The Department of Education has recently been ranked between 50-100 in the 2020 QS World
 University Rankings by Subject, which reflects our systematic progress and indicates our
 international standing.

 1.2 Research Structure
 Our staff development strategy (see 2.2) has sought to establish and embed a research culture
 that values and prioritizes collegial approaches to research excellence. Our four Research
 Clusters are key to this: they provide our researchers – staff and doctoral candidates – with an
 intellectual home aligned to complementary research interests and areas of expertise. All four
 Research Clusters have strong international networks, partner institutions and organisations.
 The four Research Clusters are:
   1. Educational Leadership, Management and Governance (ELMG)
   2. Internationalisation and Globalisation of Education (IGE)
   3. Language and Educational Practices (LEP)
   4. Learning, Pedagogy and Diversity (LPD)

 Research Clusters are an organisational articulation of our desire to ensure each member from
 doctoral student to novice ECR to established senior professor has a place within an intellectual
 community and feels a sense of belonging. Research Clusters organise our diverse research
 efforts into collegial, supportive spaces for the presentation, critical discussion, reflection and
 review of research-related activity, including funding proposals, grants, and outputs, dissemination
 and public engagement activities. More specifically, Research Clusters provide an infrastructure
 for:
    • Mentoring for probationary staff and ECRs;
    • Regular meetings where expertise can be shared and new research synergies can emerge;
    • Connecting our researchers to national and international networks;
    • Supporting the Departmental Education Seminar Series;
    • Research leadership: each Research Cluster has a Leader and a Deputy;
    • Embedding equality and diversity, for example, there is gender balance in terms of Cluster
        Leadership.
 Research Cluster boundaries are porous. This makes for a vibrant, experimental and rigorous
 research ethos. In recent years, cross-cluster work has resulted in the organic development of a
 number of interdisciplinary Special Interest Groups (SIGs), enabling members to work on
 particular research issues or problems in a more intensive way. Current SIGs include:
   •   Childhood Well-being and Education
   •   Language Education and Social Justice
   •   English as a Medium of Instruction (EMI)
   •   Curriculum Theory and Practice.

 Work in and across Research Clusters has shaped our three REF Impact Case Studies:
   •   Influencing the improvement and use of international large-scale assessments to measure
       and monitor educational achievement and inequality around the world (Sandoval
       Hernandez);


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 • Generating inclusive practice in informal learning environments for people with sensory
     impairment (Hayhoe);
 • Enhancing policy and improving practice in school governing in England (James).


 Education research currently includes two centres. These more explicitly outward facing structures
 coalesce and profile our international research, capitalise on our global networks, enhance quality,
 build capacity and collaborations for joint high-quality impactful research bids and outputs, and
 support the work of ECRs and doctoral students.
 Centre for Research in Education in China and East Asia (CRECEA)
 CRECEA leads and co-ordinates the work of an interdisciplinary global network of over 100
 researchers exploring education and education-related fields in China and East Asia. Research in
 CRECEA is diverse, focusing on higher education, educational leadership in schools, international
 schools; social justice and educational inclusion; the sociology of work and employability, and
 intercultural communication including English Medium Instruction. CRECEA expands our existing
 research expertise in international education through specific work in China and East Asia.
 International Centre for Higher Education Management (ICHEM)
 As a cross-faculty research centre, ICHEM has a membership of twenty-three staff representing
 the fields of education, computation and mathematics; economics, management; organisation
 studies, sociology and social policy. ICHEM’s research is interdisciplinary and comparative with a
 major focus on the impact of global political, economic and social forces on higher education and
 organisational change and innovation within universities.


 Education researchers have strong links with institutes and centres across the University,
 particularly:
 The Institute for Policy Research (IPR)
 The IPR is a leading public policy research institute which aims to further the public good through
 research into nationally and internationally significant policy analysis and critique. Education
 colleagues have participated in the IPR Policy Fellowship Programme. Through mutual
 coordination and access to senior policymakers, officials, and politicians, IPR serves as a major
 multiplier of our research impact, improving our reach into government, policy networks and the
 public. IPR-Education research collaborations include work on higher education and economics
 (Larkin), public policy and labour economics (Dickson), widening participation in HE and labour
 market outcomes (Lažetić, who is a former IPR Prize Fellow and now Lecturer in Education),
 education and global labour markets (Lauder, who is a former Director of the IPR), and work on
 home schooling policy gaps during Covid-19 (McIntosh). The IPR provides an access route for
 Education to the Universities Policy Engagement Network (UPEN), a network of 40 UK universities
 working to increase the public policy impact from their research, through calls for evidence,
 secondments with government departments and nominations for special advisers.
 Qualitative Research Centre (QRC)
 As indicated, advancing inter-, multi- and trans-disciplinarity in theory and methodology is a key
 and growing research interest for us. Structurally, this is embedded across education through
 Professor Taylor’s role on the QRC steering committee. Dr Costas-Batlle is one of QRCs three
 co-directors. QRC holds an annual conference, produces a major edited book per year, and is
 leading the bid to bring the international European Congress of Qualitative Inquiry to Bath in 2023.


 Figure 1 below depicts the overarching structure of education research, research support, key
 networks, partners and public engagement activities.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 1: The Unit's structure, including research support structures

 1.3 Research Strategy
 In response to institutional re-structuring in 2014 (primarily, the cessation of teacher education,
 the shift to research-intensive activity, and the consolidation of areas of research strength as
 indicated above), we have shaped our Research Strategy around the following five objectives:
    1. To increase our research scale and scope through internationally leading research which
       addresses complex societal issues in multi- and inter-disciplinary ways;
    2. To optimise the intellectual, scientific, economic, social and cultural impact of our research
       locally, nationally, and internationally;
    3. To promote external engagement and knowledge exchange through world-wide academic
       and non-academic research partnerships and local collaborations;
    4. To establish a research culture that values and prioritizes a collegial and collective approach
       to research excellence, nurtures postgraduate and ECRs, and attends to matters of equality
       and diversity across our practices;
    5. To maintain the highest standards of research excellence and rigour in our policies, systems
       and procedures in line with Concordat principles of research integrity.


 Our success in meeting these objectives is evidenced in:
    1. A marked increase in excellent publications (see 4);
    2. Growth in research funds, particularly from major funders (see 3.1);
    3. A greater focus on research impact and public engagement (see 1.4 and 4);
    4. The attraction of excellent PhD, EdD and MA students from diverse international contexts
       (see 2.4); and
    5. A research infrastructure, capacity and culture to enable the above aims (see 1.2, 2.1, 2.2
       and 2.3).


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.4 Impact Strategy
 We established three new departmental roles to support staff in enacting our impact strategy:
 Director for Impact, Director of Public Engagement, and Director for International Relations. These
 roles are tailored to support staff work in influencing academic and non-academic stakeholders
 and in supporting our three Impact Case Study authors, each of whom had workload time
 allocations for this task. Each role-holder has close links with the respective central University
 teams and their joint efforts support colleagues through drop-in sessions, impact retreats and
 applications to centrally resourced impact, public engagement or internationalisation funds. Staff
 are encouraged to be cognisant of impact from the start to the end of the research cycle and to
 build impact into their planning, implementation and publication stages, as well as to consider
 impact levels and type. Staff are encouraged to adopt a differentiated output strategy by producing
 ‘sister’ publications for non-academic, community and professional readerships, and our work has
 featured in the Times Higher Education, The Conversation and University World News.
 Colleagues have access to a central university Media Centre and a Public Engagement Centre
 which provides tailored training to support impact, engagement and community participation work.
 To secure research impact with wide reach, we have built long-term relationships and knowledge
 exchange routes with our key partners (see section 4), collaboration with whom enables us to
 implement and adapt our impact strategy to maximise engagement with, influence of and take up
 of our research by diverse stakeholders. For example, Hayhoe’s Impact Case Study, based on his
 EUHorizon2020 project work, has developed a novel methodology and a novel conceptual
 framework for understanding how people with sensory impairment gain access to and experience
 informal learning spaces. His prize-winning work has helped re-shape the training of museum
 professionals across the UK and Europe and has produced digital solutions for those with sensory
 impairments.
 Impact is maximised through an active use of social media, we have an Education Twitter feed
 (@EducationBATH), many staff members have active Twitter personal accounts, and a blog. Staff
 contribute to high-profile external blogs, such as the LSE Impact of Social Sciences and Wonkhe
 blogs. Doctoral students publish on our blog and many are active on social media. Some
 colleagues contribute to the University’s YouTube channel, which provides a global platform for
 the dissemination of our research.

 1.5 Future Strategy
 The last seven years has been a period of streamlining (for example, ceasing teacher education)
 to enable a clearer and more strategic focus on building research capacity, depth and range in our
 areas of strength. The next five to ten years will continue that trajectory to further deepen and
 sustain research in our three core areas in alignment with plans to extend our research capacities
 and enhance our research power. The overall objective, therefore, is to increase the volume and
 quality of our grant capture, outputs and impact through nurturing our vibrant and collegial
 research culture. Post-REF2021 submission we will be reviewing research-related departmental
 structures and processes to tailor these to best support our research activities and shape our work
 at strategic and operational levels as we move forward. Specific ambitions and actions include:
   •   Strengthening our research centres, global networks and partnerships;
   •   Building on our specialism in global educational development and international education
       and positioning our work as a key site for the critical interrogation of the tensions and
       relations between educational development agendas and internationalisation;
   •   Further consolidating our position at the forefront of critical theories of sociologies of higher
       education in relation to our expertise in decolonisation, gender, geographies and
       inequalities; policy-economy relations; and addressing key problematics regarding how to
       transform universities to help rethink their (our) civic purpose;


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Producing ground-breaking work that challenges current paradigms of educational policy,
       theory and research methodology;
   •   Extend our work with vulnerable populations and educationally marginalised and/or
       disadvantaged groups (elderly, disabled, children in poverty);
   •   Directing staffing strategy and resources to achieve these research ambitions via mentoring
       for all staff, supporting our ECR pipeline, sharing good practice and maintaining a vibrant
       intellectual culture in line with staff aspirations;
   •   Consolidating the ethos of collegiality and further enhancing practices of equality and
       diversity which underpin our shared research values and commitments to a more just
       education.
 Section 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy
 Our staffing profile increasingly demonstrates the success of our staffing strategy which has
 focused on cultivating a community of field-leading researchers in our three core research areas
 who are committed to theoretical and methodological innovation and outstanding knowledge
 development. The present submission involves 31 Category A staff from the Department of
 Education, and colleagues in the International Centre for Higher Education Management (ICHEM)
 in the School of Management (Enders, Naidoo and Shields, the latter being Category B), in
 Economics (Feldmann) and in the Institute for Policy Research (Larkin). Three are ECRs. Since
 the last REF there has been substantial investment in recruiting researchers with research (and
 teaching) excellence in the fields of Sociology of Higher Education & Sociology of Education;
 International Education, Globalisation and Development; and Language and Education. Within the
 last four years, 12 new appointments and 15 promotions have been made, including:
    • Two professorial appointments: a Professor of Higher Education and Gender (Taylor) and
        a Professor of Applied Linguistics (Curdt-Christiansen);
    • Two promotions to Professor: a Professor of International Education (Hayden) and
        Professor of Sociology of Higher Education (Abbas);
    • Five promotions to Reader (Donnelly, Hayhoe, Milligan, Sandoval Hernandez,
        Watermeyer);
    • Two Senior Lecturer appointments (Forey, Savvides);
    • Eight promotions to Senior Lecturer (Barratt Hacking, Brown, Carr, Courtois, Fertig,
        Grimshaw, Iwaniec, Sanchez);
    • Eight Lecturer appointments (Costas Batlle, Curle, Hordern, McIntosh, Naveed, Jablonkai,
        Soruc and Tian);
    • A University Prize Fellow (Lažetić).

 2.2 Staff Development Strategy
 The following objectives underpin our staff development strategy:
   • To attract and retain academic staff of the highest calibre and promise in key areas who
       contribute strategically to strengthening our research capacity, capability and sustainability;
   • To mentor, promote and support staff at all levels of their development;
   • To nurture a vibrant, collaborative and supportive research environment;
   • To foster ongoing research discourse among staff, students, policymakers, and practitioners
       to ensure diverse perspectives are accessed and included;
   • To strengthen the alignment between our research and teaching;
   • To support and scaffold colleagues’ grant capture awareness and opportunities, ranging
       from internal awards, smaller grants and new investigator schemes through to large
       collaborative grant awards;
   • To increase staff’s international research esteem;

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   • To support the production of high-quality research outputs;
   • To maintain a focus on well-being for academic staff and research students and to support
       their professional and personal fulfilment through reflexive dialogue;
   • To enable smoother career trajectories by identifying and supporting staff ready for or with
       the potential for promotion.
 These objectives have been actioned during the REF2021 assessment period through targeted
 research support resources and capacity building initiatives.

 2.3 Research Support
 Resources
 Staff are provided with an individual research budget for the funding of any relevant research
 expense, such as attendance at international conferences. A discretionary fund to support post-
 doctoral researchers and fixed term contract researchers is also available and awards are
 approved by the Departmental Research Committee. An additional funding stream exists to
 support doctoral students to attend conferences. The Director of Research (Taylor) leads research
 in Education, has oversight of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Research
 Staff, and advises on the University’s own Code of Practice for the Employment of Research Staff.
 Staff have a protected allocation of 30% of their contracted time for research.
 ECRs undertake the University of Bath’s Pathway to HEA Fellowship programme (accredited by
 the HEA against the UK Professional Standards Framework).


 Research Capacity Building
 Career development across the whole career trajectory is addressed through a rolling programme
 of capacity building activities including:
    • A formal three-year programme of mentorship for probationary staff;
    • Structured mentoring for Research Assistants;
    • Informal mentoring for more experienced staff;
    • Targeted workshops by internal and external experts on specific topics such as research
       impact or research bidding;
    • An extended programme of academic writing support;
    • ‘Meet-the-editor’ sessions with staff who are editors or members of editorial boards of major
       journals within the Education field.
 Staff participate in regular Research Away Days, often facilitated by external experts. Away Days
 provide external input, structured collaborative work and space for reflexive research dialogues
 on relevant topics. Recent Research Away Days have focused on data management and research
 integrity, virtual learning, and decolonisation of the curriculum.
 The Research Methodology Forum meets regularly for guided discussions on innovative
 methodologies and the use of theory and method to inform and develop research and practice.
 The Methodology Forum supplements the work of Research Clusters and Centres acting as an
 informal, developmental space for cross-cutting discussion.
 The externally facing Department Seminar Series provides a space for internationally leading
 scholars to present their work and engage in research conversation and debate with colleagues.
 Recent Seminars were presented by Professor Michael Young (University College London),
 Professor Jane Kenway (Monash University), and Professor Debbie Epstein (University of
 Roehampton). The ‘What I’m Working On’ (WIWO) seminar series is internally facing and provide
 an opportunity for staff to informally present emerging research and receive critically friendly
 feedback from peers. WIWO sessions enrich the critically reflexive, collaborative, and collegial
 ethos of research in education.


                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All staff who have completed probation participate in an annual Staff Development and
 Performance Review (SDPR). This is a ‘career conversation’ process in which staff discuss and
 set objectives for the coming year, explore their training needs and career aspirations, and reflect
 on their performance. SDPR reviewers (usually senior staff) undertake training and good practice
 is shared across reviewers to ensure a robust, consistent, supportive performance review system.
 Colleagues are encouraged to apply for sabbatical leave in order to enhance their research profile,
 achieve specific strategic aims, and focus on their research development. Sabbatical leave is
 available after seven semesters, for full-time and part-time staff on academic contracts. Periods
 of maternity leave count towards those seven. Staff on sabbatical are relieved from all
 departmental responsibilities. Since 2014, four colleagues have been granted sabbatical leave
 which has made a significant contribution to their research development, outputs and impact
 (Brown, Chawla-Duggan, Lauder, Sanchez). Curdt-Christiansen’s sabbatical has been postponed
 until after Covid-19.
 The Director of Research offers regular one-to-one drop-in sessions for academic staff pertaining
 to their research activity, development and career progression needs.

 2.4 Postgraduate Research Students
 Our doctoral student community is international, robust and vibrant, drawing in educational
 managers and leaders, teachers and administrators from around the world. 60% of the doctoral
 cohort is female. It is the largest and most diverse in the university and continues to grow.
 Our doctoral completions are as follows:
  Degree type 2013/4       2014/5     2015/6     2016/7     2017/8    2018/9     2019/0     Total
  Professional
  doctorate      6.00       10.50      16.10      13.10     10.80      18.20      16.60     91.30
  (EdD &DBA)
  PhD            8.27       4.00       6.85       8.05       5.05      4.60       8.00      44.82
  Total           14.27       14.50    22.95      21.15     15.85      22.80      24.60    136.12


 We have three doctoral programmes (PhD, EdD, DBA):
 Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
 There are currently 68 (46 full-time, 22 part-time) PhD students in Education. The majority of
 students are full-time, international, and often self-financing, although a significant number are
 sponsored by their national governments. Currently we have government sponsorship from Saudi
 Arabia, Kuwait, Turkey, Indonesia, Algeria, Ireland, Oman and Thailand. After completing their
 PhDs overseas students usually return to their home nations to lead and develop education within
 their country. The Department of Education has been successful in obtaining funded doctoral
 scholarships sponsorship through prestigious competitions: externally the ESRC-funded South
 West Doctoral Training Partnership (SWDTP) and internally, the University Research Studentship
 Award (URSA).
 The Department of Education hosts the PhD Advanced Quantitative Methods in Social Sciences,
 an interdisciplinary programme for those specialising in high-level quantitative methods.


 Doctor of Education (EdD)
 The Bath EdD programme began in 1997 and currently has 255 (2 full-time, 253 part-time)
 students at different stages of study across the four taught units and the 45,000-word thesis
 programme. Students are predominantly mid-career professionals holding full-time senior
 positions in schools and other education institutions worldwide. Students participate in some of


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 their units through campus-based residentials at Bath but may, if they wish, complete some units
 online, a pattern of study also followed in the DBA. Two compulsory units provide research training
 and critical theory analyses to underpin students’ subsequent studies.


 Doctor of Business Administration (DBA)
 The DBA in Higher Education Management programme began in 2001 and currently has 179
 students from 46 countries. About 20% of current students reside in the UK. The students are
 mostly middle to senior level administrators who work full-time at higher education institutions
 worldwide. Many enter the programme with significant management experience. Alumni have
 become directors, deans, and vice chancellors. Since 2016, the DBA has also been partly
 delivered in South Africa at the Nelson Mandela University under a partnership agreement with
 the Department of Higher Education & Training of South Africa. This agreement commits the
 University of Bath to develop high-level management and leadership capacity in South Africa’s
 public higher education system. The partnership supports 54 senior managers who represent 25
 public universities. Their research will make a substantial contribution to policymaking and
 research on South African higher education.


 Recruitment
 All potential doctoral candidates are interviewed. While our programmes are extremely
 competitive, we have strategies to engage with high achieving minority background undergraduate
 and Masters students to support progress to doctoral study and try to mitigate for lost opportunities
 due to hidden prejudice.


 Monitoring and support
 The Doctoral College (DC) provides administrative infrastructure for the recruitment, monitoring
 and support for doctoral students across the university. At Department and Centre level,
 supervision records are jointly produced and agreed by supervisors and students. The DC works
 closely with Student Services to support students’ additional needs, for example through
 completion of a Disability Action Plan where needed. Support has been enhanced during Covid-
 19 as doctoral programmes have switched to a directed learning or online hybrid model.
 The DC encourages cross-disciplinary and cross-institutional collaboration. Its doctoral skills
 programme is aligned to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework and embraces project
 management, IT and writing skills, presentations and teaching; and provides dedicated careers
 support via web resources, blogs and panel events with doctoral alumni. The DC is a hub for
 keeping PGRs informed of relevant events and activities within and beyond the University,
 including SWDTP and GW4 initiatives (see below) and national events such as training provided
 by the National Centre for Research Methods. The Academic Skills Centre offers free English
 language support to international students.


 Integration into our research community, facilities and resources
 Doctoral students are welcomed into the appropriate Research Cluster(s) and are encouraged to
 participate fully in the intellectual life of the Department, Centres, University and beyond. They
 are provided with a study space, a computer, and full access to the university network and library
 resources. Funds are available to support presentations at local and international conferences.
 Students have opportunities to be involved in teaching, research, and administrative tasks. In
 2020-2021 eight doctoral students were employed on fractional contracts as Graduate Teaching
 Assistants to support teaching during the Covid-19 pandemic. Doctoral representatives attend
 Departmental Research Committee meetings.

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Doctoral students are encouraged to publish outputs on aspects of their work, and many do, often
 through co-writing or collaborative writing groups, and their work is published in prestigious
 journals such as: British Educational Research Journal; Educational Management; and Journal of
 Research in International Education. One notable recent example is Dr Gabriel Diaz Maggioli who,
 in 2020, was awarded the Dr Robert Horton Prize for Publication for his three journal articles, two
 book chapters, two single authored books and an edited book during the period 2012–2019.

 2.5 Equality and Diversity
 Across the University
 The University of Bath has specific policies on Dignity and Respect, Recruitment and Selection,
 Flexible working hours, Maternity rights, Trans equality, Occupational Stress Management and
 Childcare which are published and regularly reviewed. These apply to all staff (including casual
 workers), honorary and visiting staff and students and third parties (e.g. contractor, client, or
 customer of the University).


 In Education
 We see equality and diversity as central, both in giving individuals the best chance to fulfil their
 research potential and in creating a positive, supportive and inclusive research environment for
 all staff. The last few years have seen concerted efforts to systematically integrate principles of
 equality into structures and processes across Education. We have an Equality and Diversity
 Officer whose responsibilities entail disseminating good practice, ensuring implementation of
 University equality and diversity policies; and participating in the work of the Equality and Diversity
 Committee. They take a lead in encouraging an awareness of structural inequalities in research
 and research careers.
 We have taken concerted action to promote gender equality during the REF2021 census period,
 particularly to enable more women to apply for and obtain leadership roles. This has improved the
 gender balance in leadership roles within Education and more broadly through female staff
 members’ contribution to University leadership, for example, through the Chancellor’s Prize
 Committee (Taylor) and Head of the Race Equality Taskforce (Naidoo). 50% of Category A staff
 in this submission are women. The Department of Education submitted its application for an
 Athena Swan Bronze Award in December 2020. This Award recognises good practices regarding
 the advancement of gender equality in higher education and research institutions. While centering
 on gender, we were sensitive to intersectional concerns with regards to race/ethnicity, disability
 and sexualities as these linked to gender. The self-assessment exercise conducted, obtained
 comprehensive organisational data and staff and student experiences. From this, problematic
 issues, as well as currently effective initiatives and policies, have been identified and form the
 basis of a comprehensive Action Plan.


 Integration into the workplace
 Specific actions taken to enhance the inclusivity of the research environment for all include:
   •   Scheduling all staff events, including meetings and seminars, in core hours;
   •   Actively promoting family-friendly policies through information sessions and staff meetings;
   •   Enabling staff on parental leave to continue to access their individual research budgets
       during their period of absence;
   •   Raising the visibility of female role models as research leaders (e.g. invited external
       speakers and visiting professors) and ensuring gender balance of presenters in internal
       research seminars;



                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   • Guaranteeing fair promotion processes by appointing an experienced and appropriately
       trained promotion advisor (a senior staff member) to support female candidates in the
       promotion process.
   • Encouraging female staff members to participate in leadership programmes, including
       Aurora and Escalate.
 These actions are part of a broader embedded approach to equality, diversity and inclusion across
 Education:
 Early career academics are supported through a collegial culture and mentoring in an inclusive
 and supportive environment (see 2.3).
 Transition back into work: Requests from staff to adjust their working hours after a period of leave
 for caring or health reasons are supported to ensure a gradual transition back to work. The duties
 of members of staff taking parental or adoption leave are fully covered by temporary staff.
 Support for staff with protected characteristics: These needs are diverse and are met on a case-
 by-case basis. The University’s Occupational Health team provides workplace assessments and
 training for staff working with others who require more support (e.g. dyslexic staff and students).
 Support includes Access to Work assessment, Personal Emergency Evacuation Planning, and
 reasonable adjustments. This support has been extended significantly during the Covid-19 period.
 Well-being: Collegial culture is enhanced through staff social opportunities such as ‘Coffee &
 Catch Up’ once a month, book launch events, summer school socials, and weekly online ‘Fika’
 meetings during the Covid-19 pandemic. We pay close attention to the wellbeing and mental
 health of staff and students. International students’ well-being is supported by the International
 Experience Coordinator in Student Services.
 Succession planning: Strategic planning is taking place to enable staff to participate in larger bids
 and develop interdisciplinary opportunities in a new funding environment.
 Construction of this REF submission: Consistent with the University of Bath’s ‘Research
 Excellence Framework 2021 Code of Practice’, the procedures used in preparing this UoA 23
 submission were consistent, transparent, accountable, and conducted in an inclusive manner and
 in accordance with EDI policies and the Principles of Research Assessment and Management
 adopted by Bath in 2017. The UoA and Impact lead both attended in-person sessions delivered
 by the University’s Equality and Diversity team that addressed EDI issues in the context of the
 development of REF submissions. The Environment Statement has been shaped out of a long
 process of wide consultation.

 2.6 The Covid-19 Pandemic
 This challenged our infrastructure and people strategy in a number of fundamental ways as the
 University re-organised campus space, regulated its use and moved teaching online or to hybrid
 versions. The challenges brought by the pandemic highlighted staff resilience and a strong sense
 of collective solidarity across our academic community. Responding to it has required clarity,
 transparency and greater flexibility in staff and research leadership in response to individual staff
 needs and exemptions. Particular challenges have arisen for staff with children and caring
 responsibilities during extended periods of homeworking. Education supported staff and graduate
 students through enhanced frequency of 1:1s and virtual social events.


 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 The University ensures strategic coordination of research at University, Faculty and Departmental
 levels, working to the PVC Research. This has involved significant investments and infrastructures
 to support research diversity, multi-disciplinarity, capacity building, international research
 collaborations and capacity for engagement with policy makers and research users.


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.1 Strategies for Income Generation
 Scaling up grant income has been one of our key strategic objectives since restructuring (see
 section 1.3). This objective has been strategically aligned to staff recruitment and retention, to
 more systematic processes of internal peer review, and to mentoring and career development,
 ensuring our internal research structures (Research Clusters, SIGs and Centres) more effectively
 support and extend our core research areas.
 As a result, we have seen significant improvements in large grant capture, particularly from the
 ESRC. The following projects indicate our successful and sustained track record in building
 international collaborations to address educational inequalities and effect real world change. They
 also indicate how the improvements in mentoring support have worked through into enhanced
 leadership capabilities: both Milligan and Donnelly won ESRC Future Leaders Awards and now
 take leadership roles in supporting doctoral recruitment, promotions of junior colleagues, and
 building grant capacity.
   •   Indigeneity and Pathways through Higher Education in Mexico (PI: Donnelly, Co-I: Lauder;
       Sandoval Hernandez; ESRC; 2021-2024; £502,845). The research critically examines the
       role and purpose of higher education for Indigenous peoples, addressing how type of
       university attended impacts on student experiences, skills and knowledge. The international
       team includes the Research Institute on Education and the University (IISUE) at UNAM, the
       Intercultural Education Research Unit at the University of Veracruz, and Departments of
       Education and Social & Policy Sciences at Bath.
   •   JustEd: Education as and for the Environmental, Epistemic and Transitional Justice to
       Enable Sustainable Development (PI: Milligan; ESRC; 2020-2023; £1,421,403). This project
       explores experiences of (in)justice, learning about (in)justice in schools and the
       achievement of the UN’s SDG13 and 16. The study focuses on three regions affected by
       environmental, epistemic and transitional injustice: Western Nepal, Andean Peru and
       Northern Uganda.
   •   Girls' Educational Experiences in English Medium Rwandan Basic Education (PI: Milligan;
       ESRC; 2018-2022; £226,270). This study critically explores the ways that learning in English
       influences Rwandan girls' educational experiences and outcomes throughout the basic
       education cycle.
   •   Family Language Policy: A Multi-level Investigation of Multilingual Practices in Transnational
       Families (PI: Curdt-Christiansen; ESRC; 2017-2020; £840,182). This study explores what
       types of Family Language Policy (FLP) exist in the UK at the national level, how FLP is
       shaped, established, and implemented at the community level, and how FLP is managed
       and negotiated in family practices.
   •   Organizational Perspectives on Accountability and Learning (Co-Is: Lauder; Sandoval
       Hernandez; ESRC and DFID; 2017-2020; £568,407). This collaborative project investigates
       how the accountability of schools differs according to the school management model and
       whether accountability is linked to differences in learning outcomes in Mumbai and
       Kathmandu. It involves the School of Management and the Department of Education at the
       University of Bath, the Tata Institute of Social Sciences in India, Tribhuvan University in
       Nepal, and Roskilde University in Denmark.
   •   Geographic and social mobility of UK higher education students (PI: Donnelly; ESRC Future
       Research Leader award; 2016-2020; £224,023). This project addresses place and young
       people’s mobilities, taking into account spatial divisions according to race, ethnicity,
       economy and culture. It uses both large-scale quantitative data and extensive qualitative
       fieldwork. The project involved the development of an innovative mapping tool.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All our research is international and interdisciplinary. Certain projects have embedded these
 strategic objectives into large-scale co-design research practices in collaboration with local
 populations:
   •   Orienta4YEL: Supporting young Early Leavers through orientation and tutorial action
       (European Commission Erasmus + Funding programme; UK partner PI: Brown, Co-Is:
       Costas Batlle, Savvides; Jan 2019-Dec 2021; total cost: €650,000, UK partner cost
       €150,000). This research study is a three-year collaboration between five European nations,
       seeking to understand and intervene on Early Leaving across Europe through informing
       policy and practice. The research will produce a novel conceptual framework for theorizing
       risks; its outcomes include training for educators across 50+ educational settings involving
       up to 1500 young people, a Handbook, and policy recommendations for tackling NEET.
   •   Co-Creation: The Cohesive City: Addressing Stigmatisation in Disadvantaged Urban
       Neighbourhoods (Co-Is: Lauder, Sandoval Hernandez; EU Horizon 2020; 2017-2020;
       €720,000). This project brought together academics, policymakers, residents and artists to
       co-create understanding about different urban neighbourhoods and to address
       disadvantage. It involved collaboration with colleagues from the University of Bath, Oxford
       Brookes University, the Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro, the National
       Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM), European Alternatives (a Paris-based NGO),
       Tesserae (an independent organisation based in Berlin) and City Mine(d) (a Brussels-based
       NGO).


 Some of our research pushes collaboration further to navigate a space between co-creation,
 collaboration and academic advocacy in support of marginalised communities. The research
 practice of such work instantiates the ethically-grounded nature of our social justice commitments,
 for example:
   •   ARCHES: Accessible Resources for Cultural Heritage EcoSystems (Co-I: Hayhoe; EU
       Horizon 2020; 2016-2019; €3,838,158). This interdisciplinary project developed more
       inclusive cultural environments for those with differences and difficulties associated with
       perception, memory, cognition and communication. Its research supported the development
       of innovative applications, functionalities and experiences based on the reuse and
       redevelopment of appropriate digital resources. Its consortium involved academia, SMEs,
       research centres and museums.
   •   Exploring Loneliness in Older People Living in Retirement Communities: Implications for
       Creating Communities and Educating Workforces (PI: Carr; Oct 2019-Oct 2020; £393,000).
       This project explores older people's experiences of loneliness and close relationships in
       retirement community living. The project will directly inform the shaping and education of
       workforces and community development in Guild Living retirement villages. Funder: Guild
       Living.


 Research on sociologies of knowledge has been a central part of our strategic goals in exploring
 educational practices and experiences in relation to students, practitioners and education
 professionals. These projects incorporate mentoring, capacity building and leadership; their
 knowledge innovations build broader communities of practice. Examples include:
   •   INCLUTE - Promoting inclusive education through curriculum development and teacher
       education in China (PI: Abbas, Co-I: Milligan; 2015-2019; £632,850). This project focused
       on understanding the need for teacher and researcher education in facilitating inclusive
       education in China and developing Masters-level curricula and relationships with schools to
       facilitate this. Funder: EU Commission Erasmus.



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Internationalising the curriculum: South African perspectives (PI: Hordern; Jan 2020-Dec
       2021; £4,500).
   •   The Enduring Impact of Creativity, Activity, Service (CAS) in the IB Diploma Programme:
       the Alumni project (PI: McIntosh, 2017, £10,000). This project analysed students’ non-
       academic experiences at school and how these shaped who they became as adults.
       Funder: International Baccalaureate Organisation.
   •   Investigating Student’s National, European and Cosmopolitan Identities and Attitudes
       Towards Cultural Others (PI: Savvides; Co-I: Sandoval Hernandez, Sept 2018-Sep 2019;
       £5,000).
   •   Teaching Excellence in the Disciplines (PI: Abbas; Mar-Jul 2016; £50,000). This project
       examined the conceptions of ‘teaching excellence’ in the teaching and learning literature
       and as held by Deans of faculties. Funder: Advance HE.

 The changes in structures and research culture have informed academic practices and resulted
 in a more robust and collaborative research environment, while at the same time enhancing the
 scale, power and reach of our research. Our income growth is indicative of strategic practices to
 build intellectual innovation which contributes to global debates and produces solutions to address
 social and educational inequalities. The projects are key research spaces for incorporating
 doctoral students, mentoring emerging researchers, and drawing on the expertise of established
 staff. Our successes are built on strategic initiatives on gender (see 2.1 and 2.5 above), the
 increasing diversity of our staff in terms of ethnicity, culture and research perspectives, and on a
 more co-ordinated approach to working with central university services such as the Research and
 Innovation Services (RIS) which supports all aspects of securing, managing and optimising the
 outcomes of research funding.

 3.2 Infrastructure: International Research Collaborations
 Education has three Global Chairs. These are significant investments for Bath and partner
 institutions. They are evidence of the external prestige and excellence of our research in innovative
 pedagogic research for social justice (Burke) and educational inequalities and policy effectiveness
 (Solga and Zhao). The Global Chair research collaborations provide tangible benefits and
 outcomes in: strengthening our international leadership of educational research; enhancing
 research excellence; improving opportunities for competitive research funding and grant capture;
 and boosting collaborative outputs. They further enhance the diversity and dynamism of our
 research culture. Current Global Chairs are:
   •   2020-21 Professor Penny Jane Burke (University of Newcastle, Australia);
   •   2020-21 Professor Heike Solga (Berlin Social Science Center (WZB), Germany);
   •   2017-18 Professor Yong Zhao (University of Kansas, USA).
 We routinely host visiting professors. In the past few years, these have included:
   •   Professor Andy Kirkpatrick, Griffith University, Australia
   •   Professor Andrew Stables, University of Roehampton, UK
   •   Professor Mats Alvesson, University of Lund, Sweden
   •   Professor Mehdi Boussebaa, University of Glasgow, UK
   •   Professor John Hailey, Cass Business School, UK
   •   Professor Philippa Levy, University of Adelaide, Australia
   •   Professor Bernadetto Lepori, Università della Svizzera, Italy
   •   Professor Roger King, London School of Economics




                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.3 Infrastructure: Regional
 The GW4 partnership, with the Universities of Bristol, Cardiff and Exeter, aims to identify areas of
 complementary expertise and develop research communities addressing major global and
 industrial challenges. It offers research development and seed money for developing larger
 collaborative funding bids. Education colleagues are involved in a number of GW4 research
 initiatives and networks and have been successful in winning GW4 grants, including:
   •   Milligan: GW4 Initiator grant: Transformative history education in conflict-affected contexts
       (2017);
   •   Montgomery: GW4 Network grant: Developing STEM education for marginalised groups in
       low-income communities (2017)
 Donnelly leads the South-West Doctoral Training Partnership (SWDTP) Education pathway and
 Education has been successful in winning three ESRC doctoral awards in open competition with
 GW4 partners.

 3.4 Infrastructure: Progressing an Open Research Environment
 The University of Bath Library was one of the first in the UK to establish a permanent data
 management service to support staff in the planning, preservation and publication of research data
 and software. Our highly experienced data librarians provide guidance, training, advice, and
 advocacy and have informed a cultural change in which good data management is now considered
 a core tenet of our research and is also embedded in our doctoral training. Library, computing and
 online services provide comprehensive access to academic publications and electronic resources.
 The library allocates subject librarians to departments. The University maintains a repository for
 publications from academic staff (via PURE), which also offers ‘green’ open access to ensure the
 widest possible audience. We are attentive to the requirements for open data, and the priority that
 UK research councils and the EU place on this. We ensure that our published data comply with
 the FAIR data principles and the Concordat on Open Research Data. We have a high proportion
 of outputs beyond the REF submission which are OA compliant.
 Research Development Managers from RIS support strategic University and Faculty priorities,
 such as larger, complex or prestigious funding schemes. Liaison with RIS is central to our bidding
 and grants strategy and this will be further strengthened as the university move to establish
 research ‘Beacons’ for interdisciplinary work is further rolled out. RIS’s regular funding bulletin
 raises awareness of funding opportunities and collaborations, including specific information for
 part-time staff or staff returning from a career break. RIS offer tailored in-house writing retreats for
 the development of competitive research grant proposals, on research impact, or on outputs via
 regular ‘Shut up and Write’ sessions. Tailored one-to-one advice is available on request.

 3.5 Research Integrity
 Ethical governance is secured through University, Faculty and Department Research Ethics
 Committees. The principles and practices outlined in the Concordat for Research Integrity (2019)
 are central to our research. Much of our research involves the participation of human subjects
 and, in some cases, vulnerable populations, and is subject to rigorous ethical scrutiny. The
 Department’s Research Ethics Officer (DREO) provides advice and guidance to staff and students
 from planning through implementation to wrap-up stage.
 Research integrity protocols are embedded throughout internal review systems across Education.
 At departmental level, we ensure diversity of bid review panels, to ensure a broad range of voices
 and perspectives in line with diversity and equality commitments, and offer developmental and
 ‘critically friendly’ support processes to improving the quality of bids and outputs. Research
 integrity is aligned to processes of transparency and equality of access to support all our diverse
 staff’s research requirements.


                                                                                                 Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In 2017 we published our Principles of Research Assessment and Management
 (https://www.bath.ac.uk/corporate-information/principles-of-research-assessment-and-
 management/), only the second University in the UK to do so at that time. This institutional
 response to the Metrics Tide Report encoded a set of principles that worked across all disciplines
 and for all research performance indicators. Our University REF Code of Practice aligns with
 these principles and we have assiduously applied them in Education UoA REF practices at every
 level.
 Research in Education is led by a dedicated Director of Research who navigates University
 infrastructures to shape and support strategic aims and objectives in Education. The Director of
 Research oversees Education research, chairs the Department Research Committee, co-leads
 the REF Sub-Committee, and is a member of the Faculty Research Committee. The Education
 research leadership team has recently refreshed membership and terms of reference of our
 research-related committees to enhance diversity and inclusion. The Director of Research has
 oversight of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Research Staff and collaborates
 with other senior leaders, to shape the support, mentoring and development of ECRs.


 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Informing, Advising, Influencing and Shaping Educational Policy, Practice and
 Pedagogy Nationally and Internationally
 Collaboration with policymakers, NGOs, practitioner-related organisations and agencies, learned
 research societies, and other research users is fundamental to our research strategy. These
 collaborations build out from our projects (see 3.1) and networks, enabling us to identify new
 research challenges, extend our research capabilities, and build capacity for developing future
 research. They are a seed-bed for testing new research ideas and situating our research in relation
 to our national and international peers:
   •   Informing policymakers about relationships between education and labour markets (Lauder,
       Lažetić, Sandoval Hernandez);
   •   Advising on international education and as Member, Finance & Property Committee,
       Technological University Dublin (Larkin);
   •   Member Education Board, Accounting Technicians, Ireland (Larkin);
   •   Collaborating with government officials in addressing children's mental health (Brown);
   •   Measuring the impact of UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) using International
       Large-Scale Assessments (Sandoval Hernandez);
   •   Knowledge-exchange as High-End Foreign Expert South West University, China (Abbas);
   •   Advising stakeholder groups comprising government departments and agencies (the
       Department for Education, the Social Mobility Commission and all four Higher Education
       funding councils in England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland), on outcomes from a
       recent ESRC grant on geographies of higher education (Donnelly);
   •   Leading the Network for Evaluation and Research in University Participation Initiatives
       (NERUPI), a capacity-building praxis-based Network with 70 member HEIs engaged in
       evaluating interventions to reduce inequalities and improve access, participation and
       progression of under-represented groups in higher education (Hayton);
   •   Leading school governance reform (James);
   •   Chairing the European Systemic Functional Linguistics Association (ESFLA) (Forey);
   •   Advising stakeholders on inclusive practice for people with sensory impairment in informal
       learning environments (Hayhoe);
   •   OfSTED Research Reference Group for Further Education and Skills (Hordern);
   •   Curriculum development work on the International Baccalaureate worldwide (Hayden);
   •   Advising the Royal Society Broadening the Curriculum Working Party (Lauder).


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our research has contributed to economic and societal change through our work with:
 National and local governments and government agencies: the Singapore government; the
 Chinese Ministry of Education; Non-Governmental Organisations in Sub-Saharan Africa; Ministry
 of Education Mexico; Ministry of Education Cambodia; Pakistan Institute of Development
 Economics; the European Commission; Welsh government; UK’s Parliamentary Office of Science
 and Technology; the former UK Department of Business Innovation and Skills (BIS); and Bath &
 North East Somerset and Wiltshire Councils; the Social Mobility Commission.
 Charities and NGOs: UNICEF; UNESCO; The World Health Organisation; The Royal National
 Institute for the Blind; The National Council for the Blind of Ireland; the Global Education Monitoring
 Report; Wellcome Trust; The Fatherhood Institute; UK Charity Student Minds; The Student Mental
 Health Research Network; Guild Living; KidsXpress; First Steps Bath, BRLSI, 44AD Arts Centre.
 Educational organisations: the International Baccalaureate; National Centre for Computing
 Education; Manege Exhibition Hall in St. Petersburg; St. Petersburg Library for the Blind and
 Visually Impaired; the US-UK Fulbright Commission; Sutton Trust; Social Mobility Commission;
 Universities UK; The Higher Education Policy Institute; the Higher Education Funding Councils for
 England, Wales and Scotland; UKRI; The Parliamentary Office for Science and Technology; The
 Wellcome Trust and ANVUR; the Italian National Agency for the Evaluation of the University and
 Research Systems; and universities in Sweden (University of Oulu), the UK (Manchester
 Metropolitan University) and USA (University of Delaware); Council of British International
 Schools; European Council of International Schools; Alliance for International Education; British
 Council; the Commonwealth Council for Educational Administration and Management; UK
 Research and Innovation; Nuffield Council for Bioethics; Climate Change Education Research
 Network; Uganda National Museum; Uganda’s National Peace and Memory Centre; Teaching and
 Language Corpora Network; Approche Linguistique et Didactique de la Différence Culturelle;
 Embracing Heterogeneity Network; Argentina’s National High-Performance Sports Entity; the
 Global University Network for Innovation (GUNi).
 Our support for professionals and practitioners doing research in International Education is
 recognised through the annual Jeff Thompson Research Prize:
 https://ibo.org/research/research-resources/jeff-thompson-research-award/

 4.2 Research Engagement with Diverse Communities and Publics
 We engage with a wide variety of public, voluntary and private sector partners in knowledge
 exchange and various forms of ‘co-production’. These enrich our research environment, help
 shape our research priorities, and enable our research to have impact. These users are located
 at local, regional, national and international levels. Recent examples include:
 Within the local area:
   •   ‘Multilingual Storytelling by Children for Children’ (ESRC Social Science Festival), Bath
       Library, 2018 (Curdt-Christiansen).
   •   Walking with string: Interactive workshop on entangling history, memory and identity,
       European Researchers’ Night. Holburne Museum, Bath, 2019 (Taylor).
 Within the UK:
   •   Public engagement lecture on Pornography as a pervasive teacher of relational norms,
       CEASE (Centre to End all Sexual Exploitation) Annual Summit, 2019 (Carr).
   •   Winner of UK "I'm a Scientist" public engagement project, engaging schoolchildren in the
       UK with the science of human relationships. The project is an online nationwide, student-
       led enrichment activity connecting thousands of school pupils with UK scientists in various
       fields of study, 2017 (Carr).



                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   ‘Excellent School Governing: Impact and Innovation’, Staffordshire Summer Conference for
       school governors and local authority staff, Stafford, 2015 (James).
 Internationally:
   •   The ARCHES (Accessible Resources for Cultural Heritage EcoSystems) project (see 3.1),
       has provided ongoing training at museums across Europe, including SignTime GmbH,
       ArteConTacto, Museo de Bellas Artes de Asturias, Museo Nacional Thyssen-Bornemisza,
       Museo Lázaro Galdiano, Victoria & Albert Museum, Menage Exhibition Hall (St Petersburg),
       Moscow State Sidur Museum (Hayhoe).
   •   ‘Measuring sustainable development knowledge and skills: Are we there yet?’, Technical
       Cooperation Group on the Indicators for SDG 4 Seminar, The UNESCO Institute for
       Statistics, 2020 (Sandoval Hernandez).
   •   ‘Cultivating English Language Proficiency: The importance of motivation for learning
       English’, TW-UK Virtual Higher Education Forum, organised by the British Council Taiwan
       for the Ministry of Education, Taiwan, 2020 (Iwaniec).
   •   ‘Young people and sport’, National High-Performance Sports Entity, Secretary of Sport,
       Buenos Aires, Argentina. Participants included coordinators of Argentina's youth games
       (Juegos Evita) and members from a local NGO (Mundo Oval), 2018 (Costas Batlle).
   •   'International mindedness in practice', IB Global Conference for IB school educators and IB
       organisation personnel, The Hague, 2017 (Bunnell).
   •   'Listening to young children’s environmental narratives', Australian Association of
       Environmental Education Research, Adelaide, Australia, 2016 (Barratt Hacking).
   •   ‘The International Mindedness Journey: School Practices for Developing and Assessing
       International Mindedness Across the IB Continuum’, seminars for policymakers, curriculum
       developers, IB programme leaders and researchers, IB headquarters, The Hague, 2016
       (Barratt Hacking).

 4.3 Sustainability of the Discipline
 We have a long history of contributing to the sustainability of the discipline both nationally and
 internationally. The health, resilience and innovation of the discipline is essential for our own work.
 Our work in sustaining the discipline is guided by producing new knowledge to move the field
 forward and to sustaining good citizenship practices in the production of that knowledge. Our
 contributions include national and international research network leadership (BERA – Chawla-
 Duggan, Savvides; ECER – Abbas, for example) and encompasses:


 Journal editorship
 Editor-in-Chief:
   • Journal of Research in International Education (Hayden); Journal of Education and Work
        (Lauder).
 Editor:
   • Gender and Education Journal (Taylor)
 Editorial Board Membership:
   • Teaching in Higher Education; Critical Studies in Teaching and Learning (Abbas)
   • Language and Education; Journal of Multilingual Theories and Practices; Language Policy;
        International Journal of Multilingualism; Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural
        Development (Curdt-Christiansen);
   • Journal of Educational Theory and Management (Curle);
   • British Journal of Sociology of Education (Donnelly);


                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   • British Journal of Visual Impairment; Social Inclusion (Hayhoe);
   • Widening participation and Lifelong Learning (Hayton);
   • Journal of Vocational Education and Training; International Journal of Training and
       Development (Hordern);
   • The Canadian Journal of Educational Leadership; School Leadership and Management
       (James);
   • International Studies in the Sociology of Education (Lauder)
   • Compare (Milligan; Savvides);
   • Philosophy and Theory in Higher Education; British Journal of Sociology of Education;
       Higher Education Review; International Journal of Sociology of Education; Critical Studies
       in Education (Naidoo);
   • Argentinian Journal of Applied Linguistics; The European Journal of Applied Linguistics and
       TEFL (Sanchez);
   • Teaching in Higher Education; Critical Studies in Teaching and Learning; Journal of Applied
       Research in Higher Education, Journal of Posthumanism (Taylor)
   • Life Sciences, Society and Policy; Research Policy (Watermeyer).


 Membership of research councils or similar national and international committees
 Our staff have joined Advisory or Scientific Boards or Committees including: The Royal Society;
 Gender and Education Network, European Educational Research Association; Fieldwork
 Education; All-Party Parliamentary Groups; the British Educational Leadership, Management and
 Administration Society (BELMAS); British Association for International & Comparative Education
 (BAICE); International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement; 1625
 Independent People; Education & Employers Taskforce; Comparative & International Education
 Society; Instituto Nacional para la Evaluación de la Educación (Mexico); Southeast Asia Primary
 Learning Metrics (SEA-PLM), UNICEF; Latin American Laboratory for Assessment of the Quality
 of Education (LLECE), UNESCO.


 Prizes and fellowships
   •   Annual Book Award of the Moral Development and Education Special Interest Group from
       the American Educational Research Association for the book Civics and Citizenship:
       Theoretical Models and Experiences in Latin America (Sandoval Hernandez).
   •   Sage Prize for Innovation/ Excellence for the paper, A sociolinguistic perspective on accent
       and social mobility in the UK teaching profession, published in Sociological Research Online
       (Donnelly).
   •   Special commendation for The Anna Craft Creativities in Education Prize, for the BERA
       Annual Conference: Against Methodolatry: A Materialist, Post-Qualitative Invocation of
       Speaking in Tongues, which develops thinking and practice in the field (Taylor).
   •   2020 Dartmouth Medal - Honorable Mention for the book chapter 'Touching the Rock: An
       Experience of Blindness (1990)' from Disability Experiences: Memoirs, Autobiographies,
       and Other Personal Narratives, Macmillan (Hayhoe).
   •   Heritage in Motion Award, European Museum Academy for best cultural app of 2020; and
       International Institute for Information Design (IIID) Award (Social Affairs) Bronze Medal &
       Darling Project, 2020. (Hayhoe, for the Horizon2020 project ARCHES).
   •   Professor Lauder has been appointed Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences.




                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Professor Hayden was awarded the Lifetime Achievement Award by GESS (Global
       Educational Supplies and Solutions, a large international schools organisation) for more
       than 36 years of distinguished service and accomplishments in the field of education.


 Refereeing academic publications or research proposals
 Staff have served as peer reviewers for a wide range of high-impact (Q1) academic journals, and
 as peer reviewers for national and international research councils and associations, including:
 Academy of Finland; American Educational Research Association; UK’s Foreign, Commonwealth
 & Development Office (formerly Department for International Development); British Computer
 Society; Commonwealth Scholarship Commission; Dutch Research Council; ESRC; Flanders
 Research Council; Fulbright Commission; Irish Research Council; Latvian Council of Science;
 Marie Curie Individual Fellowships for the European Commission; Society for Research into
 Higher Education; and South Africa’s National Research Foundation.


 Recent invited keynotes, lectures, seminars
 Education academics are frequently invited as keynotes at conferences and seminars for national
 and international audiences. Recent examples include:
   •   ‘Family Language Policy: Does it Matter?’ Language, Identity and Education in Multilingual
       Contexts, Hague, the Netherlands, 2020 (Curdt-Christiansen).
   •   ‘Uses and Abuses of International Large-Scale Assessments’, 2nd International Congress
       of Educational Evaluation and Research (CONIIEE), Colima, Mexico, 2020 (Sandoval
       Hernandez).
   •   ‘Bridging Research and Enhancing Collaboration: China and UK’, International Symposium
       on Intercultural Communication and Language Capacity Development under the Belt and
       Road Initiative, Shanghai, China, 2019 (Curdt-Christiansen).
   •   ‘Use of the Results from Citizenship Education Evaluations’, Seminario Internacional: La
       Educación Socioemocional, Cívica y Ética en el currículo, Mexican Ministry of Education,
       Mexico City, Mexico, 2019 (Sandoval Hernandez).
   •   ‘Meeting the Challenges of an International Curriculum for the Future’, International Primary
       Curriculum Annual Conference, Fieldwork Education, London, 2019 (Hayden).
   •   ‘Inclusive Technologies to Help People with Visual Impairments’, Aniridia Network
       Conference, Birmingham, UK, 2019 (Hayhoe).
   •   ‘Challenges and Opportunities for International Comparative Research on Civic Education’,
       8th IEA International Research Conference, International Association for the Evaluation of
       Educational Research Copenhagen, Denmark, 2019 (Sandoval Hernandez).
   •   ‘Slow Singularities for Collective Mattering: Doing Material Feminist Work in the Accelerated
       Academy’, Centre for Gender Studies, Uppsala University, Sweden. 2019 (Taylor).
   •   ‘Foucault in the Post-truth world’, Foucault Special Interest Group. American Education
       Research Association, Toronto, Canada, 2019 (Taylor).
   •   ‘Using Visual Technologies in Comparative Studies: Researching Young Children's
       Perspectives on Fathers’, Using Creative and Visual Methods in Comparative Research
       Seminar, University of Surrey, UK, 2018 (Chawla-Duggan).
   •   ‘Blind Visitor Experiences at Art Museums’, Sensing Culture Conference, Trinity House,
       London, UK, 2018 (Hayhoe).



                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   ‘Pride and Profit: A Family Language Policy Perspective on Chinese Language
       Maintenance/Development in Diasporic Communities’, Language maintenance and shift:
       Chinese and European perspectives Conference, Centre for Linguistics and Literary
       Studies, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, 2018 (Curdt-Christiansen).
   •   Inciting Learning and Negotiating Power as Feminist Academics in the Neoliberal University.
       University of Delaware, USA, 2018 (Taylor).
   •   The Value of Meaning-focused Metalanguage for Teaching and Learning, at Faces of
       English 2: Teaching and Researching Academic and Professional English Conference,
       University of Hong Kong, 2017 (Forey).
   •   ‘Key Challenges for School Governors and Governance in an Ever-evolving System’,
       Westminster Education Forum, London, 2016 (James).
   •   Towards a New Correspondence: Globalisation and Education, Nordic Educational
       Research Conference, Gothenburg, 2015 (Lauder).
   •   ‘Intercultural Dialogue in an Internationalised University Context’, Building Cultural Bridges
       (ICBCB), Suleyman Demirel University, Almaty, Kazakhstan, 2015 (Grimshaw).
   •   ‘Supporting and Empowering School Governors’, conference organised by the Westminster
       Briefing, London, 2015 (James).
   •   ‘Transnational Students in an Era of Superdiversity: Language Awareness and Intercultural
       Competences in a University Context’, Médiations et performance innover en didactique
       des langues / Sprachmittlung und Performance innovativ sein in der
       Fremdsprachendidaktik, Goethe Institut, Paris, France, 2014 (Grimshaw).


 Doctoral examining and emerging researchers’ development
 During the REF2021 census period our staff have served as External Examiners for over 180
 doctoral theses in the UK and internationally, including Ireland, France, Spain, Norway, Singapore,
 Malaysia, Hong Kong, the United Arab Emirates, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Canada,
 and Colombia.
 We provide workshops for ECRs at multiple international conferences, including American
 Educational Research Association (Taylor); Gender and Education (Taylor); and European
 Conference on Educational Research (Abbas, Taylor).


 Conference organisation
 We have organised prestigious conferences, including hosting:
   •   2019 UKFIET (The Education and Development Forum) conference with c.600 international
       participants;
   •   2018 International Baccalaureate Research Conference with c.100 participants from
       universities worldwide;
   •   2017 University of Bath 50th Anniversary Conference, with c.100 international participants
   •   2016-19 Three Alliance for International Education conferences with c.200 participants in
       different locations.




                                                                                             Page 21
