Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Hertfordshire

 Unit of Assessment: 17 Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Business and Management Studies Research Unit comprises 28 staff (26.9 FTE), located
 within Hertfordshire Business School (HBS). The Unit composition is 12 Lecturers and Senior
 Lecturers, of which 5 are Early Career Researchers (ECRs), 9 Readers and 7 Professors. It
 responded to a disappointing outcome in REF 2014 by implementing a strategy that has
 reinvigorated its research culture, which has included a significant increase in the Unit size. The
 enablers and success of this strategy is evidenced by some notable factors which include:

    •   9 new appointments (5 Lecturers; 2 Readers; 2 Professors)
    •   91% increase in Unit FTE staff over REF 2014
    •   1st for overall satisfaction among Business and Economics research students among the
        47 HEIs participating in the 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES)
    •   20% growth in average annual doctoral awards over REF 2014

 Strategy
 The School Research Strategy (SRS) Achieving a Step Change to 2021 employed a two-
 pronged focus on:

    •   inclusivity in research through extensive mentoring and staff development programmes
        especially for early career researchers (ECRs).
    •   a focus on research development, design and execution to foster state of the art
        critical thinking in business-related research.

 A strengthened management structure for research was introduced to engage more staff in
 research activities and professional development, led by the HBS Associate Dean Research
 (Page) supported by a Research Administrator (0.6 FTE). Inclusivity has been achieved through
 the establishment of an SRS Advisory Group and an Impact Case Study Group, creating forums
 in which staff can raise and table papers and issues around any aspects of research.

 Research is now managed through 4 multidisciplinary Research Groups (RGs) to generate
 critical mass and foster interdisciplinary working, responding to REF 2014 feedback regarding
 the dangers of research fragmentation. These are:

    •   Enterprise and Value (leader: Watson)
    •   Managing Complex Change (leader: Demir)
    •   Global Work and Employment (leader: Brookes)
    •   Organisations, Markets and Policy (leader: Dagdeviren)

 The Research Groups are aligned with the University’s overall research strategy and engage
 with 4 of the 6 interdisciplinary pan-University Research Themes established in 2015-16: Food,
 Global Economy, Health and Wellbeing and Information and Securityas shown in Figure 1.This
 development has facilitated collaborations with researchers from cognate disciplines based in
 other Units, such as Agriculture, Food and Veterinary Science (AFVS), Allied Health
 Professions, Psychology and Computer Science.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 1: Unit research group structure to facilitate interdisciplinary research showing
 relationship to the 4 most relevant University Research Themes.

 Examples include:

    •   Food; Health and Wellbeing: the Organisations, Markets and Policy RG collaborates
        with researchers based in the AFVS and Computer Science Units on a project measuring
        social impact in the redistribution of surplus foodstock, combining computing, economics,
        nutritional and geographical inputs. Members of the Enterprise and Value RG have
        collaborated with researchers based in the Allied Health Unit on food provision in later
        life.
    •   Global Economy: the Global Work and Employment RG hosted a European
        Cooperation in Science and Technology (COST) project on the dynamics of virtual work
        with collaborators based in 31 European states. Outputs included 15 research
        monographs published in the Palgrave MacMillan series Dynamics of Virtual Work,
        including Huws’s Labour in Contemporary Capitalism, 2019.
    •   Information and Security; Health and Wellbeing: the Managing Complex Change RG
        includes research into the application of systems thinking to healthcare decision making
        in the NHS, and information systems and the third age.

 The SRS was designed to enable the Unit to make a wider contribution to society by generating
 impactful scholarly research with international reach. The Unit’s research addresses 3 of the
 Grand Challenges identified in the 2017 Industrial Strategy: i) an ageing society, ii) the data
 revolution iii) clean growth and sustainability.

 Strategic investment has been made into the development of a series of research clusters
 populated from groupings of researchers from the Research Groups. Clusters represent
 beacons of interdisciplinarity (see Figure 2), each led by a senior academic (Reader or
 Professor). It was planned that ECRs, mid-career and senior researchers collaborate and co-
 create research within these clusters. Each cluster has vertical and horizontal coherence to
 advance knowledge to a wide range of publics.

 The research clusters are:




                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Business technology: combines expertise in big data, the Internet of Things, SMART
        technology, assisted living technologies, business adoption of technology, information
        systems, operations research, computer science and health science.
    •   Ageing: synthesises expertise from marketing, the visitor economy, business
        technology, consumption, operations research, health science, psychology, geography
        and public policy.
    •   The Gig Economy and Global work: combines a range of expertise from sociology,
        political economy and employment relations. Key themes include zero hours work and
        the precarity of labour.
    •   Societal economics: integrates expertise in economics, finance, politics and sociology,
        examining governance and societal impacts of institutions in terms of debt, poverty and
        inequality.
    •   Business sustainability: adopts a broad-based focus on the economic models of
        business production (e.g. franchising), global concerns on sustainable business practices
        and greening of the supply chain and the financial sustainability of business.

 The clusters utilise the synergies and interdisciplinary interconnections across the Unit’s
 Research Groups areas. They facilitate fluidity in interdisciplinary research development within
 the Unit by integrating disciplinary inputs into overall research activity that aligns with the
 University Research Themes. This is evidenced through increased interdisciplinary research
 grant awards from diverse bodies such as DEFRA, Innovate UK and the NHS; and the
 publication of outputs in transdisciplinary journals such as The Lancet and British Medical
 Journal, as well as interdisciplinary journals including Journal of the Operational Research
 Society, International Journal of Social Research Methodology and Technological Forecasting
 and Social Change.




 Figure 2: Example of a Unit research cluster formation (Ageing cluster) with RG multidisciplinary
 contributions.




                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Impact strategy
 The Unit’s impact strategy is oriented towards supporting civil society by informing policies to
 achieve greater social inclusiveness and fairness, whilst contributing towards economic
 development.

 The Unit’s approach to impact is to:

    •   Co-produce research with stakeholders using a user-engaged approach focusing
        on collaboration with the research, the dissemination of the findings and on evaluation
        (for example, the Household Debt study disseminated at a Debt, Poverty and Austerity
        event (2018) with representatives from debt advice charities (Money Advice Centre,
        Stepchange, Citizens Advice (CA), Christians Against Poverty, Toynbee Hall, the
        Institute of Fiscal Studies, Joseph Rowntree Foundation, Resolution Foundation and
        Members of Parliament.);
    •   Undertake research-informed policy analysis to assist policymakers (for example
        The Universal Basic Income: An idea whose time has come (Huws, 2016, Compass.org)
        and Online Labour Exchanges (Huws, 2015, European Occupational Safety and Health
        Agency);
    •   Address topics of social and ethical significance to promote greater equality and
        security in employment practices. For example, the Unit hosted a workshop on the effect
        of zero-hour contracts on the health and wellbeing of workers in July 2017 which
        engaged 38 stakeholders from three leading Trade Unions, law firms and European
        researchers to share and disseminate research findings. This workshop built on the
        successful Zero Carbon Britain (2015) event where the report was tabled at the COP21
        UN Climate change Talks, Paris, December 2015 and included in the subsequent report
        (Zero Carbon Britain – Making it Happen, 2017);
    •   Use the insights of research to enhance organisational performance through a
        variety of methods including
            o Reports co-created with businesses (for example, Making the UK visitor economy
                 more dementia-friendly (2017) for the Association of Scottish Visitor Attractions’
                 (ASVA) 500 business members on how to become dementia-friendly);
            o Best practice guides (for example, Royal Historic Palaces Rethinking heritage – A
                 guide to help make your site more Dementia-Friendly and Visit England’s
                 Dementia-Friendly Tourism Guide, 2017);
            o Collaborative public facing projects (for example, the UH and Hertfordshire
                 County Council Public Health Department http://www.hertsphconnect.org/
                 initiative);
            o advice to assist third sector organisations (for example, FareShare to achieve
                 greater equity and targeting of surplus food stocks to those most in dire need via
                 Food Banks in Scotland 2017-)
    •   Transfer research insights to organisations through short-term consultancy
        projects (for example Hertfordshire LEP; University of Hertfordshire Enterprise Zone
        (UEZ)).

 The Unit’s approach is illustrated by the submitted case studies. ‘The Platform Economy: shaping
 international policy, legislative and public responses to rising precarity in the labour market’
 details the work led by Huws which provided the first evidence of the scale, nature and social
 implications of the growth of the platform economy in Europe and which guided policy responses
 across the three EU institutions: the European Commission (EC), the Council and European
 Parliament. ‘Novel decision support modelling to increase efficiency of healthcare provision,
 reduce costs and improve patient experience’ (Lebcir and Demir) involved collaborations with 3
 NHS trusts and 2 private healthcare companies and led to several impacts including increased
 service efficiency. Developing a dementia-friendly visitor economy (Page) details how, through
 partnerships with tourism and heritage organisations, research on the low level of awareness within
 the tourism industry around the needs of people living with dementia has been translated into



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 practical guides and toolkits which have supported the development of a dementia-friendly visitor
 economy and have improved quality of life for people affected by dementia.

 The Unit has contributed to 3 of the Industrial Strategy Grand Challenges - the data revolution
 (for example operations management research with the NHS), an ageing society (for example
 the Food provision in later life project funded by ESRC and the Food Standards Agency) and
 clean growth and sustainability (DEFRA and Innovate UK projects). Impact is also created
 through undertaking overseas research programmes on issues of fairness (for example the
 RESCuE and Land Rights and Food Security projects).

 The Unit’s research has also been cited in high level policy forums such as the EU and
 European Parliament, Hansard (2016), The Select Committee on Regenerating Seaside Towns
 and Communities (2018) and the Lancet Commission on Obesity (2019). The latter has
 achieved global reach through workshops held with stakeholders (e.g. the World Bank, IAEA,
 WHO, UNICEF, Public Health England) in St Louis Missouri, Washington DC, London, Vienna,
 Tehran, Buenos Aires, Wuhan and Delhi).

 Impact is treated as an integral part of research design to encourage engagement with end-
 users at an early stage. To embed the process of impact into the research planning stage,
 exemplars of best practice are disseminated to facilitate discussions with colleagues including at
 the Unit’s biennial research conference.

 The Unit has supported the development of research impact by:
    • Increasing research workload allocations from 0.2 FTE to 0.6 FTE for staff developing a
       case study;
    • Allocating Research Fellow time (up to £150k annually) to support colleagues’ work;
    • Allocating School and central funding through University Research Impact Grants
       (between £2.5k and £5.0k a year) to support 7 impact case study areas with evidence
       development and collection;
    • Funding events to facilitate public engagement such as at the ESRC Festival of Social
       Science;
    • Working with the central Research Office Impact Facilitators on stakeholder development
       and evidence collection.


 Open Research Environment and Integrity
 The Unit adheres to the protocols established by the University in accordance with the
 Concordat on Open Research Data. It is mandatory for all researchers to deposit a copy of their
 outputs into the University Research Archive (UHRA) which then makes these available under
 Green Open Access (OA). The University has additionally established an Article Processing
 Charge fund to support Gold OA publication of outputs of strategic importance. The Unit has
 published several articles supported from this fund, while, as a matter of course, all UKRI funded
 research includes budgets to support Gold OA publication.

 The University is a signatory to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. Mandatory training
 on research integrity is provided for all staff and PGR researchers within the Researcher
 Development Programme administered by the Doctoral College. Unit members have also
 participated in additional training sessions organised by the University Research Office,
 including an annual seminar addressed by the UK Research Integrity Office. All research
 involving human participants requires approval by the University Ethics Committee through its
 sub-committee with delegated authority for the Social Sciences, Arts and Humanities which
 contains members nominated by the Unit.

 Future Strategy
 The Unit will adopt a stepped approach to research development focused on development of the
 research clusters. This will be underpinned by five principles:


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •    Research activity must be innovative;
 •    Research activity must reach end-users and generate impact;
 •    Research activity must cultivate interdisciplinary;
 •    Research activity must support research concentration;
 •    Research activity must tackle grand societal challenges through research-informed
      practice.

 These principles will be incorporated into four actions:

 1.      Investment to engage each cluster more broadly with key stakeholders. This will be
         done locally through the Business Power Group – a University advisory body led by HBS;
         regionally via the LEP; and nationally with government and other bodies, via workshops
         and collaboration forums to foster knowledge. These initiatives will build on the Unit’s
         involvement in, for example, the SHAKE Climate Change programme funded by the
         Societe Generale UK Foundation, which assists entrepreneurs who are combatting
         climate change with science or technology-based ideas for start-ups and scale-ups in
         agriculture and food production; This approach will also be facilitated through future
         management Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) applications to innovate UK
         following a recent successful award with Southend YMCA to develop a digital platform to
         manage their internal and external business capabilities.
 2.      Increase the financial vitality of each cluster. Working with the appropriate University
         Research Theme champions and complementary University research groups to facilitate
         additional interdisciplinary funding bids, focused on team-led research grant applications
         for amounts over £200k;
 3.      Develop the Business Technology cluster into a University Research Centre, by
         building capacity through new posts to scale up operations research activity through
         further appointments to grow the cluster’s critical mass and embed it into the institutional
         research infrastructure;
 4.      Expand the Unit’s research infrastructure, by growing the number of externally funded
         Research Fellows building on the School’s investments into creating a career pathway
         from Research Fellow to Lecturer between 2016 and 2020. Postgraduate research
         (PGR) student numbers will also be grown in line with the 35% target set in the
         University’s Strategic Plan 2020-2025, through a greater focus on partnerships with new
         global organisations that are being developed in the Asia-Pacific region.

 It is intended that this strategy will deliver a further improvement in the Unit’s generation of high-
 quality outputs, external research income and research impact.


 2. People

 Staffing Strategy
 The Unit seeks to recruit, retain and invest in developing its staff to support the research clusters
 to develop critical mass. Developing dynamic clusters to create a vibrant research environment
 has aided staff retention and also helped in attracting new staff by demonstrating enhanced
 career pathways in research.

 Staffing Strategy is overseen by the Research Advisory Group consisting of the Associate Dean
 Research, the leaders of the Research Groups, and the Senior Research Tutor (Gagliardi) and
 School Research Tutor (Balamenou).

 Recruitment and Progression
 New appointees are targeted who will strengthen Unit research capability, and their career
 progression is supported through the granting of enhanced research allocations. One illustration
 of this strategy is Bonizzi, an ECR who joined the Unit in 2019: initially he was part of
 collaboration led by Leeds University which secured an Independent Social Research

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Foundation project in the area of Financial Subordination; he then secured two research
 contracts - with the European Parliament on Blended Finance in EU Development Policy and
 with the Overseas Development Institute, concerned with external debt in Lower-Income
 Developing Countries.

 Staff are supported where appropriate to apply for research-based promotions in the University
 annual academic promotions round. Some 5 Unit members have been promoted on this basis
 between 2014-20. As part of the Unit approach to talent management, the Associate Dean for
 Research monitors staffing through annual reviews with Human Resources, actively identifying
 those Unit members who should be encouraged to apply to the promotion round. This process
 helps with retention by ensuring the most capable researchers build successful and rewarding
 careers, and it also facilitates active succession planning enabling high performing individuals to
 be mentored and developed into future research leaders, thereby ensuring longer term
 sustainability as well as vitality. Lebcir, Spencer and Demir were encouraged to apply for
 promotions during this REF cycle through this process and were subsequently awarded a
 Readership (Lebcir), and Professorships (Spencer, Demir).

 Research Time and Resources
 All Unit staff enjoy research allocations of at least 0.2 FTE pro rata within their workload
 allocations, as is consistent with the University’s REF 2021 Code of Practice. Further
 enhancements to these allocations are made to reflect roles in research administration, the
 management of grant-related activity, postgraduate research student supervision, special
 projects and research activity considered of strategic value to the Unit.

 At each six-monthly appraisal period, research activities are reviewed, and any necessary
 support and development needs identified. Additional research time allocation may be awarded
 to accelerate project development and completion which is incorporated in the School workload
 model. Research time allocation is made more efficient through organising teaching inputs into a
 limited number of days, group teaching, and concentrating the staff teaching load into a single
 semester where possible.

 A School-funded sabbatical scheme awards up to 6 sabbaticals per year. This was introduced
 during this REF cycle at an overall investment cost of £460k. Sabbaticals provide for relief from
 all School obligations for the duration of a semester. A total of 17 staff benefitted from
 sabbaticals during this REF cycle. Major beneficiaries have been all the 5 Unit ECR staff.

 Staff can apply to the Unit’s Contestable Research Fund (£100k per annum) to support seed
 corn research with a focus on both internal and external collaborations. The Staff Development
 budget of £200k per annum funds all staff conducting research to attend scholarly conferences
 and events to build networking opportunities and engage in critical dialogue with their peers at
 an international level. ECRs can also apply to the Early Career Small Grant Awards scheme
 operated by the University Research Office. Unit staff have received 10 such awards - typically
 worth £3-4k - over the course of the REF cycle which has assisted their progression from the
 early career stage. The University also participates in the Santander Universities initiative with
 awards focussed on international projects: 4 Unit members received awards to a total value of
 £4k over the cycle.

 Staff Development
 The Associate Dean for Research and the Research Group leaders identify the peer to peer
 support needed for ECRs and other colleagues under the leadership of the School. Unit
 members typically receive £1k a year in staff development support with additional funding on as
 required basis. External staff development organisations are used to facilitate specialist training
 needed to support individual requirements while all staff have access to the extensive
 Researcher Development Programme offered by the University Doctoral College (see
 Postgraduate Research Students subsection below).



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Unit has further supported staff development investing in three initiatives.

 •     All staff are allocated a research mentor with more substantial research experience to
       advise on research (e.g. publishing and grant application development). This is undertaken
       at Research Group level, with strategic oversight from the Associate Dean (Research);
 •     The Unit operates an internal peer review process for journal article submission to assist
       staff in navigating the challenges of peer review. This is achieved through knowledge
       transfer from senior colleagues who regularly peer review for leading journals in their field, as
       members of Editorial Boards and as Editors of Chartered Association of Business Schools
       (CABS) listed Journals;
 •     The Unit provides funded places at externally hosted annual Writing Retreats at the
       University of Cambridge to assist with the completion of articles. Spend over the cycle has
       been approximately £25k to support 40 places.

 Research Culture
 The School Research Tutor organises a series of 15 to 20 research seminars a year featuring
 internal and external speakers. These are attended by both staff and PGR students and are
 designed to enable participants to improve their communication skills through critical debate
 over research epistemology and methods, as well as acquiring expert knowledge of a subject
 area. The seminars also provide a site for networking, and build motivation and confidence in
 research, especially among both the ECR and PGR communities. Overall annual staff
 engagement with research development activities has risen by 65% over the course of the REF
 cycle, indicative of the transformation in research culture achieved through the School Research
 Strategy.

 A series of workshops on publications, grant applications and research methodology workshops
 designed to enhance staff performance is also organised, while a biennial research conference
 allows staff and PGR students to receive supportive critical feedback on their emergent
 research.

 Postgraduate Research Students
 The Unit adheres to a philosophy of treating all postgraduate students as ‘Colleagues in
 Training’. The success of this approach can be gauged from the results of the 2019
 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES). The Unit was ranked 1st for overall
 satisfaction, 2nd for research culture, 2nd for progression, 3rd for research skills and 5th for student
 supervision from the 47 universities participating in the Business and Economics category. The
 University as a whole ranked 21st for overall satisfaction,4th for research culture and 15th for
 supervision out of 103 participating HEIs with a local PGR student participation rate of 62%.

 The percentage satisfaction ratings given by the Unit’s PGR students to each element of the
 survey, and their quartile position among the 42 participating English institutions are shown in
 Table 1. In 6 of the 8 categories, the Unit was ranked in the top quartile.

 Table 1: Unit 2019 PRES outcomes for Business and Economics.

     Category                       % Satisfaction                   Quartile
     Supervision                    93                               1
     Progression                    93                               1
     Research Skills                92                               1
     Responsibilities               85                               1
     Research Culture               72                               1
     Professional Development       76                               3
     Resources                      71                               4
     Overall                        91                               1

                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Doctoral Awards
 The average number of doctoral awards per annum over the REF 2021 period is 6.6 which is a
 22% increase over the 5.4 per annum for REF 2014. The distribution of these awards, based on
 HESA returns, is shown below. This represents a total of 46 students: however, a further 19
 PGR students successfully completed their studies while remaining resident overseas so that a
 total of 65 doctoral awards were obtained in the Unit during the reporting period.

 Table 2: Doctoral awards over the REF 2021 cycle.

                 2013-     2014-     2015-     2016-     2017-      2018-     2019-     Total
                 2014      2015      2016      2017      2018       2019      2020

  PhD awards     1         7         6         4         7          7         3         35



  Professional   2         3         0         1         2          1         2         11
  Doctorate
  awards

  Total          3         10        6         5         9          8         5         46
  Number of
  Doctoral
  awards
  reported to
  HESA

  Awards to      1         3         4         1         4          2         4         19
  students
  based
  overseas
  (PhD and
  Professional
  Doctorate)


 PGR Recruitment
 The Unit has increased PGR student numbers through its diverse range of doctoral
 programmes. The PhD programme accounts for around 50% of enrolments, with the other 50%
 enrolling on two professional doctorate programmes aligned to practice: a Doctor of
 Management (DMan) and a Doctor of Business administration (DBA) each of which received
 accolades for their innovative provision at successive validations. PGR student recruitment is
 conducted in accordance with the Unit’s underpinning commitment to Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion (see EDI subsection below). Fully funded and fee waiver scholarships at Research
 Council rates are awarded to outstanding candidates for PhD programmes, thereby supporting
 the research clusters by investing in projects aligned to staff research expertise.

 PGR Supervision
 The Unit provides regular supervisory advice and support that is based on clear and frequent
 communication (written and oral) with agreement on mutual expectations, as well as mentoring
 tailored to the needs, attributes and aspirations of each student. This facilitates PGR doctoral
 completions within sector norms. In 2018/19, for example, of those completing a doctorate in the
 Unit 87.5% completed to award either within 4 years full-time or 6 years part-time.

 All PhD supervisory teams are comprised of two or more Unit staff and must have a minimum of
 two successful doctoral awards within the team. This provides for both a breadth of expertise
 and variety of interpersonal relationships to support the research student. Within each

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supervisory team a senior colleague will normally act as principal supervisor. Where there is a
 third place on the supervisory team, it is often used to provide an opportunity for a more junior
 member of staff to gain supervisory experience.

 Full-time PGR students participate in a minimum of 10 face to face planned supervisory team
 meetings per annum, while part-time PGR students receive a minimum of 6 such meetings each
 year. These meetings are recorded on the online Research Student Management System
 (RSMS) in which progress reports and actions from meetings are lodged to support the student,
 while providing a formal supervisory record. The RSMS provides for robust processes (for
 example, by sending out automated messages to all parties reminding them when meetings are
 due and alerting them to formal deadlines) while providing a place where meeting records are
 held that can be reviewed by the University’s Doctoral College. This has contributed to the high
 levels of student satisfaction with supervision and research project management evidenced in
 the Unit’s 2019 PRES student response performance.

 Researcher Training and Resources
 PGR students all have access to the extensive Researcher Development Programme sessions
 to enhance knowledge and skills provided centrally through the University Doctoral College. This
 provision includes mandatory elements on topics such as research ethics which must be
 completed prior to the student’s formal registration on their doctoral degree programme. These
 are supplemented by Unit-led workshop events on specific topics for specialist needs.

 PGR students are fully integrated into the research activities of the Unit, including the research
 seminar programme, and at University level attend Doctoral College seminars and social events
 together with the annual PGR student research conference. Part-time PGR students, who might
 otherwise find it difficult to attend Unit events, help organise an annual weekend Research
 Conference at which they can build relationships with other students, as well as their
 supervisors.

 PGR students have access to office space, which is available on a hot-desk basis. The office is
 equipped with computers, storage facilities and stationery supplies. It was refurbished in 2017.
 All computers are regularly upgraded following the same standards used for staff. Printing and
 photocopying facilities are available in several locations within the School. Additional credit is
 added free of charge to PGR student accounts. The Unit runs a PGR Professional Development
 Support Scheme which is aimed at providing financial support for professional development
 activities, including conferences and training events. The scheme also covers funding to
 purchase software, databases and other items that may become necessary during the
 programme of study, hence could not be resourced at the time of admission. PGR students can
 order business cards via the standard staff process. Resources to facilitate communication and
 interaction between PGR students and their supervisors are provided via MS Teams and Zoom.
 Dedicated Teams channels are also available for PhD and DBA students, while the DMan
 programme has opted for Zoom as the preferred methods for virtual communication and
 interaction.

 When appropriate, opportunities are offered to PGR and post-doctoral students to participate in
 the research activities of the Unit. For example, a post-doctoral Research Fellow has been
 appointed to support the Unit’s project-based work with NHS Trusts, including those projects
 focused on Covid-19 with Public Health England, and two Research Assistants have also been
 attached to the Big Data Technologies and Innovation Laboratory (see Infrastructure and
 facilities, section 4). Other Research Fellows are employed to support projects across the Unit,
 providing them with opportunities for receiving mentoring and development as researchers.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 The principles of equality, diversity and Inclusion are central to the Unit’s staffing and research
 practice. Consideration is given to gender and ethnicity balances in research projects and output



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 production to ensure that HBS reflects diversity in the academy. The characteristics of the Unit
 are summarised in Table 3.

 Table 3: Unit equality, diversity and inclusion summary data.

                         BAME        White Other    White          Not             Total
                                                    British        disclosed
  Female                 5           5              3              0               13
                         (17.9%)     (17.9%)        (10.7%)                        (46.5%)
  Male                   2           4              8              1               15
                         (7.1%)      (14.3%)        (28.6%)        (3.8%)          (53.6%)
  fractional contracts    0          3              1              1               7
                                     (10.7%)        (3.8%)         (3.8%)          (25.0%)

  Total                  7           9              11             1               28
                         (25.0%)     (32.1%)        (39.3%)        (3.8%)          (100%)

 The Unit is now close to achieving gender parity. The submission is over 46% female, a
 significant rise from the 35% of women in the REF2014 submission. This includes 3 out of the 7
 Professors in the submission (42.8%). Women also hold significant roles in the research
 management structure: 2 of the 4 Research Group leaders are women, as is the Senior
 Research Tutor and School Research Tutor. HBS supports staff to participate in the women-only
 Aurora Scheme for Future Leaders, and the School received the Athena Swan Bronze Award in
 2019.

 In terms of ethnicity, 25% of the Unit identify as BAME - a figure higher than the sector mean.
 This includes 2 of the 7 Professors in the submission (28.5%). Leadership and management
 training for BAME staff has also been implemented.

 The HBS Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Team (EDIT) meet on a regular basis to oversee the
 implementation of measures in relation to recruitment, retention and development initiatives to
 ensure all processes are transparent and fair. Steps taken include reviewing recruitment
 practices (e.g. job description language, interview panel gender and ethnicity compositions and
 guaranteed interview schemes), monitoring the gender balance of the REF submission,
 encouraging broader female participation in research through collaboration and additional
 research time, positively encouraging research projects on EDI subjects, and constant
 monitoring of weekly research events held throughout the academic year to ensure a balance of
 speakers.

 The overall thrust of EDI focused research activities has included working with the Unit’s PGR
 students to create opportunities to recruit from a pool of women and BAME ECRs, with a focus
 on encouraging women and BAME candidates to apply for doctoral programmes and to ensure
 that they receive the support to enable successful completions and awards. In particular, the
 Unit has sought to address the lower rates of applications from women for research degrees by
 promoting support mechanisms for women students (including mentoring), and marketing
 specific projects to encourage more women to apply. This strategy has led to the achievement of
 gender parity where 51% of the PGR student community are women.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 The overall external research income obtained by the Unit over the REF 2021 period is £1.73M.
 Income per annum has remained stable between this and the previous REF cycle.

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Unit strategy to achieve self-sustaining research comprises 4 strands of activity:

 •     the pursuit of prestigious large multi-year funding to sustain team-based research
       programmes (including continuation grants) (for example EU, UKRI) that underpin Unit
       research on grand societal themes such as inequality;
 •     the pursuit of inquiry-based grants by individual or groups of staff (for example EU, ESRC,
       ISRF);
 •     enterprise-related income including research projects that have a direct benefit to
       businesses;
 •     deployment of QR funding for PGR studentships.

 Unit staff routinely bid for grants to support this self-sustaining strategy, often in collaboration
 with other external researchers. Since 2014 key successes include multiple grants funded by the
 EU (£873k), ESRC (£263k), the UK Government (e.g. DEFRA £127k), and Innovate UK (£898k).
 The Unit continues to diversify its income streams: for example, an award from the UK-India
 Education and Research Initiative (UKIERI) (£165k).

 Some of the major awards successes for the Unit during this REF cycle are itemised in Table 4:

 Table 4: Selected external funding award successes for the Unit in the REF 2021 cycle.

     Research Programmes            Funder                         Strategic Focus
     (PI)
     COST Action IS1202             European Union                 Interdisciplinary network
     Dynamics of Virtual Work                                      comprising 31 European
     (£125k) (Huws/Spencer)                                        countries and participation
                                                                   from North America and
                                                                   Australia. Policy workshops
                                                                   and 15 research
                                                                   monographs published by
                                                                   Palgrave Macmillan.
     Work in the European Gig       Foundation for European        Analysis of crowd work in 12
     Economy (£48.3k) (Huws)        Progressive Studies            European countries and
                                                                   policy analysis.
     Access to Land Project         UK-India Education and         Analysis of land rights and
     (£165k) (Dagdeviren)           Research Initiative (UKIERI)   land access in relation to
                                                                   food security.
     LiveTap – Live Visualisation   Innovate UK                    Development of app to
     of Emissions (£495k)                                          communicate live emission
     (Alaka)                                                       data on streets/routes to
                                                                   allow people to decide when
                                                                   to use certain streets/routes,
                                                                   or which ones not to use
                                                                   (i.e. avoidance behaviour).
     Big Data and Machine           Innovate UK                    Focus on lowering
     Learning enabled                                              emissions in construction.
     Automated Building
     Information Modelling (BIM)
     for Projects (£898k) (Alaka)
     The PLUS Project: Platform     European Union Horizon         Analysis of platform labour
     Labour in Urban Spaces:        2020                           in seven European cities
     Fairness, Welfare,                                            contributing to the
     Development (£315k)                                           development of welfare
     (Schlappa)                                                    policies.



                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  RESCuE (Citizens'               European Commission        Research in nine European
  Resilience in Times of                                     countries on the resilience
  Crisis) (£363k) (Dagdeviren)                               strategies of poor
                                                             households facing with
                                                             economic crisis

 Many of these awards are for interdisciplinary collaborations designed to deliver impactful
 outcomes for policymakers. A further selection of funded projects awarded between 2014-2020
 demonstrating the diversity of the Unit’s funding sources, as well as its focus on end user
 engagement to address societal problems include:

  Health behaviour in school-     Department of Health       Report to World Health
  aged children (£23k)                                       Organization Collaborative
  (Kapetanaki))                                              Cross-National Study,
                                                             building on Chief Medical
                                                             Officer of Health concerns
                                                             on adolescents.
  Older people's perceptions      ESRC/Food Standards        To support older people as
  and experiences of              Agency                     they engage in everyday
  strengths and vulnerabilities                              food acquisition and
  across the UK food system                                  consumption practices.
  (£268k) (Kapetanaki)
  URBACT (Placemaking for         European Regional          Programme to help cities to
  Cities) (£37k) (Schlappa)       Development Fund (ERDF)    develop pragmatic solutions
                                                             that integrate economic,
                                                             social and environmental
                                                             urban topics to achieve
                                                             greater sustainability.
  ReGrow City (£64k)              ERDF                       Follow-on grant to URBACT
  (Schlappa)                                                 to disseminate good
                                                             practice.
  Pilot for a Maternity      DEFRA                           Development of rental
  Equipment Product Service                                  scheme for infant car seat.
  System (£66k) (Catulli)
  Evaluating Cloud Computing Royal Academy of                The use of cloud computing
  Technologies Development   Engineering                     by Xerox to fulfil the needs
  (£35k) (Choudrie)                                          and requirements of
                                                             customers and suppliers to
                                                             maintain its competitive
                                                             advantage.
  The Political Economy of        Independent Social         Working with the
  Cooperative Firms (£61k)        Research Foundation        cooperative movements in
  (Gagliardi)                     Fellowship                 Europe on their evolution
                                                             including follow-on funding
                                                             for dissemination activities
                                                             (£5k).
  KEEP+ project (£34k)            ERDF                       Assisting the Steve Sinnot
                                                             Charitable Foundation, to
                                                             develop the financial
                                                             sustainability of the charity
                                                             and working with recipients
                                                             of support in Sierra Leone,
                                                             the Gambia, Haiti, Nepal
                                                             and Uganda.




                                                                                        Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Covid-19 data modelling          West Herts NHS Trust            Analysis of outcomes and
  (£7.5k) (Lebcir)                                                 treatment for COVID-19
                                                                   patients.

 Consultancy income has also generated key outputs and reports for high profile clients such as
 that undertaken by the Gig Economy and Global Work cluster for the Foundation for European
 Progressive Studies in 2017, the European Institute for Gender Equality and the European
 Parliament.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 The Unit receives a devolved QR budget from the University, calibrated in accordance with REF
 performance, along with further support through the School which, as a Strategic Business Unit,
 can absorb investment costs through its Staff Development budget and payroll elements.
 This facilitates Unit strategic investment (financial and in-kind staff time) into collaborations with
 industry such as advice to key UK third sector organisations including Royal Historic Palaces,
 the Alzheimer Society, VisitEngland, The Parkinsons Society and FareShare. FareShare is the
 UKs largest foodbank charity, supporting 6,700 charities/ community groups, working with 500
 food suppliers to redistribute surplus goods. The Unit has worked with FareShare to develop a
 web-based resource allocation model to help distribute food to areas of greatest need.

 In 2019 the Unit made an initial investment of £100k to establish a new Big Data Technologies
 and Innovation Laboratory to provide high performance local computational resources with a
 server, and peripherals including visualisation capability and necessary software to provide for
 big data analysis to enhance the activities of the Business Technology research cluster. This
 facility was partly funded from two recent Innovate UK grants which utilised the laboratory
 (Alaka: Live Visualisation of Emission; partner Earthsense Systems; Alaka: Big Data and
 Machine Learning-enabled Automated BIM for Projects; partner Balfour Beatty).

 Most of the research undertaken in the Unit does not, however, require laboratory equipment or
 research facilities so an investment has been made in 3 School-funded Research Fellow posts
 to assist staff in each cluster with projects and facilitate research impact. This investment has
 also provided support with funding bids, coordinating interdisciplinary teams and development of
 prospective future ECRs.

 All staff have state of the art PCs, updated as a need arises, and many have laptops and tablets
 to permit flexible working. They have access to suitable industry standard software such as
 Qualtrics to assist with its analysis and higher-level statistical packages such as Stata. Packages
 for specialist needs such as Mplus for psychological research has also been purchased to
 support staff. Additionally, an investment was made in specialist databases to facilitate research
 (such as the FRANData database which has American franchisee data) as well as Hospital
 Episodes Data from NHS Digital to support the Unit’s NHS collaborations. Routine qualitative
 research transcription is also contracted out to support Unit staff with primary data analysis.

 A designated Library and Computer Service (LCS) Information Manager works in partnership
 with the Unit to ensure relevant information sources, services and support are available for staff
 and PGR students. There are 220 information databases and 50,575 journal titles, an increase
 of 81% since 2014, of which some 8,140 are catalogued in business and economics. Amongst
 the most relevant databases and journals collections available to support research in the Unit
 are FAME and OSIRIS, Eikon/Datastream, FT.com, IBISWorld, Euromonitor Passport, Mintel,
 WARC, XpertHR, SCOPUS, Business Source Complete, Emerald Management Journals, Sage
 Premier Journals, Wiley Journals, and Gale Reference Complete. There are also 533,000
 ebooks of which 16,812 are in the area of business, management and economics to be
 accessed by Unit staff. The Information Manager regularly runs support sessions for new PhD
 students and new staff introducing them to the LCS and its facilities located in 2 extensive multi-
 floor Learning Resource Centres at the University, and fields enquiries from research staff
 regarding access and procurement of information resources. In addition, more recently the LCS


                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 has established transformative agreements with several publishers (for example Sage, Wiley) to
 facilitate gold OA publication removing the requirement for Unit staff to make payment for
 individual article publication.

 In addition to local provision, the Unit draws on the support of the Doctoral College for the
 training and career development of its academic staff and research students. The Doctoral
 College provides a central online RSMS implemented in this REF cycle (outlined under PGR
 supervision, section 2) to oversee the recruitment, training, assessment and examination of
 research students. The University’s Research Office provides centralised training and support
 for Unit staff including the identification of funding opportunities, support with the preparation of
 grant submissions, assistance with the electronic submission of grant applications and advice on
 research communication and the development and evidencing of research impact through a
 dedicated Impact Facilitator.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research Collaboration and User Partnerships
 Unit staff are supported to undertake national and international networking to build long-term
 collaborations through the Unit’s Contestable Research Fund. They are also supported through
 the Staff Development Fund to attend one international conference a year, resulting in over 20
 peer-reviewed conference papers per annum. Unit research collaborations in terms of bidding
 for funding involve partners:

    •   Internationally: with Universities in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Indonesia, Malaysia,
        Nigeria, Tanzania, South Africa and the United States. Partner institutions include
        Harvard University, USA; the Institute of Human Virology, Nigeria; and the South African
        Medical Research Council along with global businesses such as Xerox and Johnson and
        Johnson;
    •   Nationally: with HEIs including Imperial College, Kings College, UCL, Cranfield,
        Leicester, Exeter, Cambridge, Oxford, Edinburgh, Newcastle, Nottingham, Bath, UEA
        and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine as well as organisations such
        as the Association of Scottish Visitor Attractions;
    •   Regionally and locally: working with partners such as the Hertfordshire LEP, Public
        Health Hertfordshire; West Herts NHS Trust; Dartmoor National Park and the Steve
        Sinnot Trust. Social enterprise research has been commissioned from the Unit at the
        regional level by organisations including the NHS Hertfordshire Partnership Foundation
        Trust, St Albans District Council; Hertfordshire Community Foundation.

 Unit collaborations have achieved global reach. For example, The Health Foundation Report
 (2019) Infection Prevention and Control: Lessons from Acute Care which was a collaboration
 with Imperial College and the University of Leicester for the NHS (Lebcir) involving partners in
 South Africa, Thailand, Ghana, and Rwanda, preceded the UK Government’s 20-year Vision for
 Anti-Microbial Resistance that recognised that anti-microbial resistance may pose the greatest
 risk to public health in the future. This collaboration also led to an MRC funded PhD studentship
 with the lead supervisor at Imperial and the second supervisor from UH (Lebcir).

 Contribution to Economy and Society
 HBS has a strong tradition of applied practitioner research reflecting its foundations in the
 University which is an anchor institution for Hertfordshire. The School shapes economic
 development by influencing policy via the Hertfordshire LEP (for example, future employment
 needs research), and through evidence-based research (for example, Hertfordshire Business
 Productivity Survey). The KEEP+ research programme has assisted businesses in the UK (for
 example Steve Sinnot Foundation) and in developing countries to adapt their operations,
 through the Unit’s outreach work with a Research Associate.


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Hertfordshire Business Academy
 A major investment in infrastructure to support engagement with business is via the Business
 School Advisory Board (BSAB) and the Hertfordshire Business Academy (HBA). Since 2000, the
 HBS strategic approach to local impact has been informed through external industry and
 community input via the BSAB. The BSAB comprises senior business people and academics,
 representing regional, national and international interests. In 2016, the Dean of School
 repositioned BSAB to raise its reputation within regional, national and international business
 communities, providing advice on various areas including research and consultancy for the
 business community. This was operationalised through HBA led by an Associate Dean
 (Corporate Development) drawing on expertise from the Research Groups to achieve
 collaborations and impactful near to market research outcomes. HBS invests £250k a year in its
 enterprise activity and delivered, through HBA, an informal membership community which
 operates virtually on LinkedIn, Twitter and Facebook and through public engagement events on
 campus. HBA is a rolling network of over 3000 members from a wide range of industry sectors
 and professional profiles who attend chargeable and complimentary events. The composition of
 HBA changes continually but typically comprises 48% SMEs, 19% corporates and 33%
 professional practitioners who have engaged as shown in Table 5:

 Table 5: Hertfordshire Business Academy events and participant numbers 2014-2019.

  HBA Events      2014-15       2015-16     2016-17      2017-18      2018-19     Total
                                                                                  Participants



  Courses and             347         437          251          148         109            1292
  Workshops

  Events and              191         272          592          782         375            2212
  Conferences

  Total                   538         709          843          930         484            3504



 HBA also focuses on areas where the Unit can make a difference to the regional economy,
 building mutually beneficial relationships for its membership in user driven research delivery and
 hence research impact. Monthly public events include breakfast briefings (BBs), workshops,
 masterclasses, Lunch N Learn webinars and knowledge exchange seminars. Since the outbreak
 of Covid-19, HBA moved its offer online to Let’s Talk About webinars for local businesses to
 maintain the network. HBA offers a live and regular communication channel to its subscribers
 through monthly newsletters and daily social media alerts on up-to-date research, LIVE
 modules, Market Research Services, Innovation Vouchers and Knowledge Exchange Activities.

 HBA has facilitated consultative and commercial research projects with a range of organisations
 including: Clinical Commissioning Groups in Hertfordshire; Foundation Trusts; Hertfordshire
 Community Trust; Hertsmere Borough Council; Creative Economy Sector Mapping and
 Benchmarking Survey; ColArt Ltd Change Management Programme; St Albans District Council
 Leadership Development Programme; Greater London Authority on regional regeneration
 strategies in Dagenham. HBA projects that extend beyond the local region include two studies
 for the Leadership Foundation for Higher Education (2014; 2018).

 Unit staff are frequently invited to lead briefings and disseminate new insights and updates for
 industry and professional stakeholders such as CIM, CIPS, CMI, CIPD, Chamber of Commerce,
 FSB, LEP, Local Growth Hub, CVS, Institute of Directors and the NHS. HBA is key partner in the
 University Enterprise Zone established with £1.1 million from Research England. It aims to
 expand the volume of business start-ups within Hertfordshire. HBA delivers coaching and a



                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support programme via the £1.5M ERDF funded InCampus incubator to support start-ups and
 graduate entrepreneurs.

 Community Engagement
 The Unit supports community engagement, resourcing staff with time and funding. For example,
 over £40k has been invested in a project with Fareshare, the UK’s national network of charitable
 food redistributors, on optimising surplus food redistribution and the onset of food vulnerability.
 Other projects with the third sector that support local stakeholders include a Head Teachers
 Forum, examining the rise of academies which has informed future policy development.
 Dissemination events for specific research projects are hosted such as the Hertfordshire Matters
 project attended by 150 people. The Unit is building on this, heading a Task Force in
 Hertfordshire to pilot a model (Brookes) to engage anchor employers in the region to help
 support disadvantaged communities. The objective is to enable the greatest impact from each
 £1 of spending, particularly public spending, within the local economy by minimising leakages.

 Three research studies for Hertfordshire LEP have emerged from HBA on a Skills Gap Analysis
 to assist in informing apprenticeship provision (2015; 2016; 2018-19) and a Young Persons
 Skills Survey (2017-18) for the top seven employment sectors to inform careers guidance for 14-
 18 year olds and the Hertfordshire Business Productivity Survey (2019). The Unit is also
 involved in the University’s Annual Arts Marketing Symposium which aims to build links between
 local businesses to assist networking. It has also participated in three ESRC Festival of Social
 Science events between 2017 and 2019 in Smart Technologies - creating value for business
 (Davari) exploring smart technologies, the scope and benefits of going “smart” in different
 sectors such as transportation or healthcare; Bridging the Internet Generation Gap (Choudrie)
 exploring the use of smart technology on the lives of seniors; and Creating Value in Projects
 (Cubric), exploring how social “agile” practices are beneficial in managing projects.

 Research Consultancy and Advisory roles
 The Unit contains a Statistical Services and Consultancy Unit (Spencer (leader), Demir, Tofallis)
 which has undertaken advisory roles with Viewpoint on survey design; the Advanced Institute for
 Scotson Techniques to advise and assist in analysing Cerebral Palsy data, the European
 Technology for Business (cost of falls and fall rates) and the Intellectual Property Office (design
 rights and copyright infringement survey design and analysis). A regular client is the National
 Lottery Promotions Unit for whom they produce the National Lottery Index (the randomness of
 ball selection is tested annually). Other work includes sharing research findings on donor
 motivations for the Welsh National Opera and the Royal Academy of Engineering on ethnic
 minorities in engineering. They have also engaged with external clients annually providing
 research training courses for industry to enhance statistical skills in business. Beneficiaries
 include the Hertfordshire Partnership University Foundation Trust, Reform, Lockheed Martin,
 Camelot, the Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital NHS Trust, Tesco, Hertfordshire
 Constabulary, Lincolnshire County Council, the Ministry of Housing, Communities & Local
 Government and Department for International Trade.

 Through the work of Lebcir and Demir the Unit has major ongoing collaborations with public and
 private healthcare providers including two Covid-19 research studies with Public Health England
 and West Herts NHS Trust; enabling better management of Deep Vein Thrombosis patients in
 collaboration with Abbott and Bayer Plc and the eleven NHS Hospitals and Trusts which have
 been beneficiaries of Unit research on demand and capacity planning for acute services as well
 as simulation and forecasting for ophthalmology services. A collaboration with Sheffield
 Teaching Hospital and on Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust has been funded
 through a £102k grant from a global medical device company (Sirtex) to develop an online
 analytical tool for personalized care for liver cancer patients.

 Notable advisory contributions to organisations include: the European Parliament (Huws); Age
 Concern (Choudrie); Royal Statistical Society (Spencer); Advising Xerox on online social
 networks and cybersecurity (Choudrie); on dementia (Page): Prime Minister’s Working Group on


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Dementia; Royal Historic Palaces, Alzheimer’s Society and VisitEngland/VisitScotland/National
 Trust.

 Contributions to the Sustainability of the Academy
 Table 6 identifies the range of contributions made by Unit staff to editorial and peer review activities
 in the REF period.

 Table 6: Editorial and peer review activities by Unit staff.

                             Total               Examples include:
                             CABS
                             recognised
                             journals
  Editors in Chief           6                   Tourism Management (Page); Competition and
                                                 Change (Dagdeviren) Work and Employment
                                                 (Cotton); Work Organisation, Labour &
                                                 Globalisation (Huws)
                                                 Information, Technology and People (Choudrie),
                                                 Journal of Institutional Economics (Hodgson)
  Guest Editorships          7                   Journal of Comparative Economics (Gagliardi);
                                                 Journal of Institutional Economics (Gindis); Journal
                                                 of Business Ethics (Gindis); Competition and
                                                 Change (Gindis)
  Editorial Board            27 (9 CABS          Artificial Intelligence Advances (Alaka)
  Memberships                rated               American Journal of Engineering and Technology
                                                 Management (Alaka)
                             international
                                                 Tourism Management (Alaka) Electronic Journal of
                             standing)
                                                 E-Learning (Cubric)
  Book Series                5                   New Horizons in Institutional and Evolutionary
  Editorships                                    Economics ((Edward Elgar - Gagliardi and Gindis);
                                                 Critical Studies in Economic Institutions (Edward
                                                 Elgar - Gagliardi and Gindis); Advances in Tourism
                                                 (Routledge - Page), Themes in Tourism (Pearson -
                                                 Page), Dynamics of Virtual Work (Palgrave
                                                 Macmillan – Huws)
  Peer Grant                 5                   ESRC (Page), NIHR (Lebcir), Hong Kong Research
  Reviewers – major                              Council (Demir), EU Horizon 2020 (Cubric)
  funders                                        European Commission’s Ethics Review Panel
                                                 (Huws).

                                                 Page was also a Scientific Committee member of the
                                                 CABS Journal Guide 2014-21

 In total Unit staff have authored, co-authored or edited 35 scholarly books during the cycle.

 Prizes and awards
 Two staff were awarded Honorary Doctorates during this cycle: Hodgson from University of
 Thessaly, Greece, 2017 and Page by the University of West London, 2014. Other notable
 awards include the 2014 Schumpeter Prize in Economics (Hodgson); 2014 Award for
 Outstanding Service in Marketing Education (Marketers’ Trust/ Academy of Marketing, Brennan);
 TechWomen100 Award for 2019, (Choudrie); Best Paper Awards at the International Society of
 Franchising 2015, 2018 (Watson); Emerald Literati Network Awards for Excellence 2016, 2017

                                                                                                   Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Page). Public Health England Honorary Registrar, for services to workforce modelling, 2020
 (Lebcir).

 Visiting positions
 Several staff have held Visiting Posts/Professorships during the cycle including:

 •   Brookes: Nelson Mandela University, Port Elizabeth, South Africa
 •   Choudrie: Strathmore Business School, Nairobi, Kenya; Symbiosis International University,
     Pune, India
 •   Kaworski: University of Johannesburg, South Africa
 •   Lebcir: Harvard University, USA

 Notable Conference activities
 Gagliardi, Gindis and Hodgson co-founded the World Interdisciplinary Network for Institutional
 Research, (WINIR). With the benefit of financial support from the Unit, WINIR has helped shape
 the interdisciplinary research agenda on institutions by organising 6 annual global conferences
 and 4 international symposia since 2014. These have been held in locations such as Lugano,
 Switzerland; Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Boston, USA; and Utrecht (Netherlands) on topics such as
 as Institutions and the Future of Global Capitalism, 2018; and Institutions for Inclusive Societies,
 2019.

 The Unit hosted the 16th AEME Events Management Educators Forum in 2019 for which
 Jepson was Conference Chair; and the 9th Global Brand Conference of the Academy of
 Marketing’s Brand, Corporate Identity and Reputation Special Interest Group in 2014 (co-
 organisers: Brennan, Watson. Unit Members are frequently keynote speakers at industry
 workshops and conferences. For example, Alaka has twice presented keynotes to Balfour Beatty
 Workshops in 2019 and 2020, as well as to an Air Pollution Analytics Workshop, New Leaf
 Technology, 2020, an Air Pollution Monitoring Workshop, Earthsense, 2019, and 7th Annual
 Conference of AnalytiX, Singapore, 2019. Dagdeviren is regularly invited to present her work at
 international conferences and symposia. For example, invited speaker, Gender and Effective
 Use of Land Rights, Mother Theresa University, Tamil Nadu, India, December 2018; Keynote
 Speaker, Social Policy, Local Governments and Social Policy Symposium, Istanbul, January
 2019 and, Invited Academic expert, Oyo State Agribusiness Summit, Ibadan, Nigeria, March
 2020

 Staff regularly chair or convene international conference streams. An illustration of the scale and
 scope of this activity is the work undertaken by Demir and Lebcir within the Ageing cluster in the
 field of Operations Research who between them have chaired or convened 14 international
 conferences and presenting 15 invited papers at conferences during this REF cycle. Lebcir, for
 example, was Chair of the Healthcare Applications Stream of the Operational Research Society
 Annual Conference, Canterbury, 2019; Program Committee Chair of the Winter Simulation
 Conference, Las Vegas, 2017, Scientific Committee Member, Global Joint Conference on
 industrial Engineering and its Application Areas, Vienna, Austria 2017, Associate Editor, 23rd
 European Conference on Information Systems, Munster Germany 2017. Lebcir and Demir also
 delivered invited lectures in health management at Harvard, the National University of
 Singapore, Duke University Medical School and Imperial College, as well as for the NHS.




                                                                                              Page 19
