Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Bristol

 Unit of Assessment: 9: Physics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Overview
The University of Bristol (UoB) School of Physics (SoP) has a vibrant and productive portfolio of
research activities spanning quantum devices, condensed matter and materials physics,
astrophysics, and particle physics. With a current complement of 48.8 FTE academic staff and 5.3
FTE independent research fellows, plus 57 postdoctoral researchers and 184 PhD students, we
have the critical mass necessary for world leading research in all our activities, whilst providing a
friendly and supportive research community. Collaboration within the SoP and internationally is our
lifeblood, and our broad portfolio of research partnerships enables us to deliver top quality
research. This, combined with a strong ethos for entrepreneurship, means that Bristol Physics
punches well above its weight in world leading research and impact.




The REF2021 assessment period has been highly successful. Key highlights arising from our REF
2014 objectives are:
   •   Leading Publications and Collaborations - Outputs published in top journals:
       Nature/Science (18), Nature Physics/Photonics/Materials/Plants/Chemistry/Astronomy (34),
       Nature Communications (33), Physical Review Letters (140). Our outputs have attracted
       more than 29,000 citations during REF2021 and over half our papers have an international
       co-author.
   •   Leading Graduate Training - We have led 4 EPSRC Centres for Doctoral Training (CDT)
       and partnered in a further 4 CDTs. We have awarded 189 doctoral degrees in the


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
       assessment period. A £6M bequest for PhD studentships is permitting new forms of
       industrially co-sponsored doctoral training and more flexible recruitment of international
       students.
   •   Improved Diversity - We have substantially increased diversity across our staff by attracting
       19 new academic staff from top institutions worldwide. 19% of our REF2021 submitted staff
       are female (8% in REF2014).
   •   Substantial Grant Funding - £105M of new funding awarded as Principle Investigator (PI).
   •   Entrepreneurial Culture - our academics have spun-out or started 13 companies during
       REF2021, together generating £160M of new investment and over 150 new jobs. We have
       been awarded 9 patents (with 9 further patents pending).
   •   Cutting Edge Facilities and Instrumentation – we have in excess of £35M of research
       equipment with £14.3M of new investment in REF2021.

Research Structure
Our key strategic aims in REF2014 were to build on our core research strengths and to improve
links across the School, the University and with industry. During REF2021 our research activities
have been restructured around 6 Themes. The rationale for the restructure was to break down
barriers between traditional sub-disciplines and to enhance meaningful interactions between
researchers. For example, bringing the Nanophysics and Interface-Analysis groups under the
umbrella of the Materials and Devices Theme has led to new projects with industry, applying high
speed AFM to analyse nuclear and biophysical materials. Cross Theme collaboration is strongly
encouraged and facilitated through the School’s Research Committee, where a Theme Leader
represents each Theme.




While all Themes interact with industry, this is particularly strong for the Materials and Devices
Theme which has received £7.7M of industrial funding, and the Quantum Engineering
Technologies (QET) Theme where there has been very substantial technology transfer to start-up
companies.




                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Theme Leaders are selected by merit, rather than seniority. We promote leadership experience by
rotating the role on a 3-year cycle. Leaders assume responsibility for maintaining a productive and
highly supportive research environment and for coordinating and facilitating activities and
interactions. A key aspect of the role is to ensure strong support for career development,
particularly of early career researchers (ECR) though mentoring and providing guidance on grant
applications and developing new collaborations.




This Theme conducts research across a wide range of applied topics and is strongly
interdisciplinary, with a focus on the boundaries between Physics and Engineering/Life Sciences.
To support and enhance the visibility and impact of its research, particularly to industry, the Theme
has created two research centres and has a strong Nano/Biophysics strand.

The Interface Analysis Centre (IAC) specialises in materials science and instrument development
for industrial applications, particularly in the civil nuclear sector, and is supported by £17M of
funding. A focus is in helping to resolve failure, contamination and performance issues in materials
and providing expert analysis and consultancy services to industry and external collaborators. The
IAC’s research is based around a dedicated materials analytical facility (see Section 3). Their work
is a major contributor to the knowledge base that underpins strategic decision making in the
nuclear sector: including the safety of EDF Energy’s nuclear reactors, the safe storage of uranium
fuel and developing instrumentation to monitor environmental radioactivity with application to
nuclear facilities in the UK, Fukushima and Chernobyl. These applications are detailed in three of
our Impact Case studies. The strength of this activity led to the founding of the South West
Nuclear Hub in 2016 which provides a regional focus for civil nuclear research (see Section 4).

The Centre for Device Thermography and Reliability (CDTR) has pioneered device reliability
assessment based on a novel sub-micron spatial resolution thermal imaging system using Raman
spectroscopy. This enables the study of technologically relevant physical phenomena that are
critically dependent on micro and nanostructure in wide band-gap semiconductor materials and
devices. Supported by £8M of grants (including leading the EPSRC programme grant GaN-DaME
                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
and platform grant MANGI), the CDTR has developed power electronics based on GaN, Ga2O3,
and diamond for the low carbon economy, and RF electronics for next generation communications.
Major industrial collaborations exist with more than 20 companies including UMS
(France/Germany), WIN Semiconductors (Taiwan), Northrup Grumman (USA) and Infineon
(Germany/Austria).

Nano/Biophysics: Working with partners across Chemistry, Life Science and Engineering this
strand develops new methods of nanoscale imaging for applications. They have pioneered the
development of high-speed atomic force microscopy (AFM) which has applications across science,
healthcare and manufacturing (see Impact Case study). New developments have enabled a huge
increase in the signal to noise ratio, enabling AFM scanning at ultra-high rates over a large area -
leading to breakthroughs in both applied and fundamental science (e.g., phosphorene nanoribbons
Nature 2019). The discovery of a technique to image nanoscale fluctuations in the bacterial cell
envelope has led to the development of a rapid antibiotic susceptibility instrument (Longitude Prize
discovery award).

The appointments within this Theme of Springell, Liu and Martin in Nuclear Materials (3 FTE), and
Payton in AFM development (0.5 FTE) during REF2021, follow from our strategy to increase our
impact and engagement with industry in these already successful areas.




This Theme has pioneered the field of integrated quantum photonics, showing that photonic
circuits can be implemented in waveguide architectures on-chip. Working closely with industry, the
Theme has continued to lead the field throughout REF2021 by developing key components
needed to advance the integrated approach, including development of quantum communication
transmitter and receiver chips. They have developed a single reprogrammable optical circuit that
can implement all possible linear optical protocols (Science 2015, with Nokia and NTT), a chip-
based quantum key distribution system (Nature Comms. 2017, with NICT), a paired photon source

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
on a single chip (Nature Photon 2014, with Toshiba), a new architecture combining a
reconfigurable photonic quantum processor with a conventional computer for quantum chemistry
calculations (Nature Comms. 2014), and a device which can perform 15-dimensional entanglement
(Science 2018).

The four areas of interest for commercial exploitation are quantum-enhanced sensors, secure
communication systems and networks, quantum simulators, and quantum information processors.
Theme members conduct theoretical and experimental research to develop convincing prototype
technology demonstrators.

Quantum research at UoB is highly interdisciplinary and QET members also belong to QET Labs
which spans Physics and Engineering, as well as the Bristol Quantum Information Research
Institute (see Institutional-level Environment Statement: REF 5a) which includes academics from
Mathematics and Electrical Engineering. The Theme is part of three of the four EPSRC Quantum
Technologies Research Hubs (Communications, Imaging and Computing hubs led by York,
Glasgow, and Oxford respectively) and leads most of the experimental work in the
Communications Hub. The strength of Bristol’s quantum research has been a prime factor in the
establishment of the new Quantum Technologies Innovation Centre (QTIC) - the world’s first
dedicated open-access innovation facility for developing a broad spectrum of quantum
technologies. QTIC has raised £91M of funding and will be housed in Bristol’s planned £300M
enterprise campus at Temple Quarter (see REF 5a).

The lectureship appointment of Laing has developed our experimental applications of quantum
computing to real-word problems, such as simulating the vibrational quantum dynamics of
molecules (Nature 2018). The further joint lectureship appointments with Electrical Engineering of
Barreto, McCutcheon, Sahin and Turner have supported the link to applied theory and expanded to
incorporate a broader range of devices such as superconducting detectors and cryogenic
electronics.




                                                                                           Page 5
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)




This Theme conducts fundamental research in Condensed Matter physics that spans hard and soft
matter. A major strength is Quantum Matter with a focus on experimental studies of the
fundamental physics of strongly correlated electrons in metals and insulators, and in particular high
temperature superconductors. The Theme’s comprehensive experimental approach includes
development of novel instrumentation and analysis techniques both at Bristol and at international
facilities, and the growth of state-of-the-art single crystal samples. REF2021 highlights include
developing pressure cells for pulsed magnetic field measurements up to 70T (with EMFL-
Toulouse) which provides new ways to study phase transitions in superconductors, and
development of a new RIXS beamline at Diamond which offers new ways to study magnetic
excitations. Discoveries include the nature of charge density waves in cuprate superconductors
(PRB 2014 and Nature Comms. 2016) and quantum criticality in iron-based superconductors
(Nature Phys. 2014). Success has been recognised by the award of the IOP Mott Prize (Hayden)
and an €2.5M ERC advanced grant (Hussey -CATCH22) to study superconductors under extreme
conditions. Building on the recent discovery of high temperature superconductivity in hydrogen
containing compounds at very high pressure, the group has embarked on an ambitious and
demanding programme to investigate the electronic properties of these materials which has been
recognised by the award of an ERC starter grant (Friedemann - HPSUPER).

The joint professorial appointment of Hussey with High Field Magnet Lab at Radboud University
(UoB 0.8 FTE) during REF2021 consolidates the group’s world-leading status in this field and is
enhancing collaboration with the European High Magnetic Fields Laboratory (EMFL).

The Soft Matter strand focusses on biological, soft, and complex matter such as colloidal gels and
proteins, elucidating key properties such as phase behaviour, nucleation properties and dynamical
characteristics. A highlight was uncovering the structural relaxation mechanism in glass transitions
(Nature Comms. 2015) and the award of an ERC consolidator grant (Royall-NanoPRS). Soft
Matter is highly interdisciplinary with extensive links to the Schools of Chemistry and Mathematics
supported by the Bristol Soft Matter Network which organises seminars and meetings. To exploit
the potential for interactions with Biosciences, a new appointment (McManus) has been made, with
a focus on understanding the self-assembly and phase behaviour of proteins.

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)




The Theoretical Physics Theme’s research can be grouped into three strands: Quantum
Information and Foundations (QIF), Hard- and Soft-Condensed Matter Theory (CMT).

The QIF strand explores the profound differences between the classical and quantum world
revealed by quantum entanglement and non-locality. Its research has widespread applications to
quantum optics, thermodynamics, and quantum biology. The activities of QIF are world leading as
evidenced by the IOP Dirac Medal and FRS to Popescu for his research into nonlocality and his
contribution to the foundations of quantum physics. Highlights include quantifying Einstein-
Podolsky-Rosen Steering which has applications in quantum key distribution (PRL 2014) and
developing a framework for extending thermodynamics to individual quantum systems (Nature
Comms. 2014). Their work is also supported by rich interdisciplinary collaborations within Bristol’s
Quantum Information Research Institute, combining Physics with Mathematics and Engineering.
The activity in this area has been strategically strengthened by the Lectureship appointments of
Short and Skrzypczyk during REF2021.

Research in CMT spans the properties of novel quantum materials, both in and out of equilibrium,
and the statistical physics of soft matter. Work in all of these areas involves a highly fruitful
combination of foundational theory with significant efforts (31 papers co-authored with
experimentalists) to drive their application in technologically important settings (2 joint industry
supported PhDs). In hard-CMT, a major focus has been on understanding the microscopic
interactions between carriers in topological and other exotic band structures and the fundamental
physics of superconductivity and other quantum materials particularly in out-of-equilibrium
conditions. This activity has been consolidated with two appointments during REF2021 (Gradhand
and Clark) aligned with our strategy of building both industrial engagement with work on devices
and collaboration with experimentalists. Highlights include theory of the spin Hall effect (PRB
2015), and light induced superconductivity in K3C60 (Nature 2016). During REF2021, two new
appointments (Machon and Wilding) have been made to exploit new developments in Topology
and self-assembly, and their application to soft matter. This will forge new links to our
experimental groups with potential industrial applications.


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)




This Theme’s activity is in the field of experimental Particle Physics, with a focus on development
of detectors, data acquisition and data analysis using novel strategies. The theme is involved with
multiple collaborations both within CERN and worldwide. In CMS (CERN), members are playing
leading roles in searches for indications of non-standard model physics in Higgs boson decays.
Highlights include setting limits on the invisible Higgs boson decays (EPJC 2014), and precision
measurements in the top quark sector, as well as interpreting the results of CMS to tightly
constrain new physics models (EPJC 2015). Members are making major contributions to
operations, particularly on the Level-1 trigger, and to the Phase-2 tracker and trigger upgrades.

In LHCb (CERN), the theme leads measurements of the CP violating phase 𝝲 and CP-violation in
charm and plays a central role in the investigation of lepton anomalies in the flavour sector
including investigations of lepton flavour universality (PRL 2014) and angular analysis of B meson
decays to leptons (JHEP 2016). They are also working on current and future LHCb upgrades.

During REF2021, the Theme has joined the DUNE, LZ and Mu3e collaborations. Dune (Fermilab,
USA) aims to investigate neutrino science and proton decay studies, Lux-Zeplin (LZ) (Sanford
USA) is a search for dark-matter and Mu3e (PSI-Switzerland) is a search for a lepton-flavour
violating decay. Involvement with these collaborations is building on the established expertise in
detectors, data acquisition and computational analysis to provide contributions to the timing and
control systems, simulations, and production test systems to prepare for physics analysis over the
next decade.

Members of the Theme capitalise on their experience with very large data sets to collaborate with
the UoB Jean Golding Institute providing expertise to lead cross-disciplinary data science projects.

Work in detector development has spun out into fruitful collaborations in the fields of nuclear waste
management, radiation measurements, radiotherapy and homeland security. Working with
industrial partners Vivamos and IBA, a radiotherapy verification device to enhance



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
safety/throughput in Intensity Modulated Radiotherapy has been developed and commercialised.
Two patents have been awarded in this area during REF2021 (Patent1, Patent2).

Three Lectureship appointments during REF2021 have strengthened the work of this Theme.
Brooke brings expertise in data acquisition and physics to the DUNE effort, Petridis is leading the
lepton physics on LHCb, and Paramesvaran's experience of trigger design improves our
operations within CMS.




The Astrophysics Theme addresses profound questions concerning the way structure forms in the
Universe, the feedback of energy and fields into this structure, the “dark” constituents of the
Universe, the properties of black holes, and the variety of planetary systems. Research is focused
on the observational opportunities offered by the largest major observatories that exploit a wide
range of wavebands including the JVLA and LOFAR in the radio, the Very Large Telescope and
Hubble Space Telescope (HST) in the optical, and XMM and Chandra in the X-ray regime.
Members play active roles in the preparation of science programmes on the forthcoming Euclid
satellite, the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) and the Rubin Telescope.

Theme members have made important advances in the understanding of the evolution of galaxy
populations and massive clusters as part of the XXL survey (A&A 2016). The work on clusters is
multi-faceted and extends to the highest redshift protoclusters, with pioneering multi-waveband
studies of the earliest phases in the evolution of their galaxy populations (ApJ 2018). Beyond
observational research, the Theme continues to develop their TOPCAT utility which is a catalogue-
handling software used extensively by the worldwide astrophysics community.

The lectureship appointment of Wakeford has opened up the new area of exoplanet atmosphere
research. This is a highly topical area which is increasingly becoming the focus of many high-
profile observational missions (HST and JWST) and will result in high impact research for the


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
foreseeable future. It is also one which strongly captures the interest of the public, which we will
further bolster with our very successful on-line public engagement activities (Exocast).

Physics research strategy and vision for the research environment
Our core Physics research strategy is to enhance our research in areas of existing strength, while
fostering an environment in which we can respond nimbly to opportunities in exciting new fields
particularly those which reach across traditional subject boundaries. A key route to this is through
new appointments. These are made based on the candidates’ suitability for all aspects of the
academic role but with a focus on: (i) excellence in the research field with potential to become a
research leader; (ii) fit with existing strengths with the potential to reach across discipline
boundaries (where appropriate); (iii) potential to attract funding, either as an individual or part of a
research team. In this manner, we build and maintain research teams which have the expertise
and critical mass to facilitate effective collaboration and generate a constant flow of new ideas
which inspire and motivate. Much of our work lies at the interface with other disciplines such as
Electrical Engineering and Chemistry and capitalising on cross-disciplinary expertise within Bristol
and beyond is a principal aim. To support this, we have seven joint academic appointments with
other Schools (see Section 2).

We have successfully addressed our REF2014 objectives by enhancing our core research
strengths with targeted appointments that build interdisciplinary links across the University and to
industry. This is reflected in the growth in both quality and volume of our research outputs, which
has been achieved whilst maintaining a research profile that contains a healthy mix of fundamental
and applied topics. Such a broad portfolio allows us to thrive both in terms of basic science, where
we expand fundamental knowledge and lay the foundations for the technologies of the future, and
impact where we contribute to wealth creation and quality of life.

A strong international profile
Our general strategy has been to boost our
international visibility and reputation. The success
of this is evidenced by a substantial rise in our
citations during REF2021 (see figure). Leadership
and participation in collaborations between top
researchers worldwide, are actively encouraged.
UoB’s international fund and the School’s Research
Initiator Fund provide seed corn funding to kick-start
new international projects. For instance, we
supported interactions with Heidelberg and Kyoto
Universities, organising joint symposia and visits to
build collaborations. Examples of these include collaborations in Quantum Matter where Kyoto
expertise in sample growth of iron-based superconductors has been connected to Bristol expertise
in measurements of physical properties (ARCMP 2014), and research into glass-relaxation
dynamics (Nature Comms 2015) and radiation mapping (J. Env. Rad. 2016) linked to Kyoto
researchers.

We host a steady stream of top international academics for seminars, colloquia, and research visits
(~45 visits/annum of >2 days). High-profile academics are attracted to our Benjamin Meaker
Distinguished Visiting Professorship Scheme, with 8 hosted during REF2021, resulting in
collaborations and joint publications. Currently the School hosts 30 visiting industrial

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
fellows/professors, 7 honorary professors and 45 visiting/honorary research associates with whom
we have extensive collaborations and links.

Each Research Theme runs a seminar programme and we run weekly School colloquia, attracting
~80 internationally prominent speakers each year. Colloquia attract a large audience and provide a
focal point for our community of researchers to meet, interact and socialize. Academics lead and
run international conferences and workshops in Bristol, and we support this by providing cost-free
meeting/lecture rooms and administrative support. An example is the two-day Frontiers in
Condensed Matter Physics Conference held annually in the School since 2014, which attracts a
substantial proportion of the UK hard condensed matter community and international delegates
(>100 attendees/year).

Research governance strategy
This is grounded in national policy frameworks including the QAA UK Quality code, and UoB’s
Policy on Research Governance and Integrity. The University strongly supports the Concordat on
Research Integrity and is working to join the UK Reproducibility Network. Within the School,
responsible research is monitored via Theme leads and the Science Faculty Ethics Committee. A
course on research integrity forms part of the staff development for new academics. Postgraduate
researchers (PGR) receive dedicated training on research governance and integrity as part of their
induction programme.

Open Science
We are committed to UoB’s open access policies and ensure that papers are uploaded to the
University’s public repository (PURE), which underpins the public catalogue of UoB’s research.
Furthermore, many papers are deposited on preprint servers (arXiv) often before acceptance.
Papers are publicised on ResearchGate and LinkedIn. For many journals (e.g., Nature Comm. /
Science Adv.), UoB funds open access publication where this is unavailable free of charge.

Individual researchers and collaborations are supported to plan, manage and share research data
by the library’s Research Data Service and archive significant primary research datasets in the
University’s publicly accessible Research Data Storage Facility. Where computational code is a
key deliverable, our standard practice is to preserve and release the commented and documented
code under an open license using a public repository (e.g., SPOKnots on GitHub).

Strategy for Impact
A commitment to impact is deeply embedded across the School and we have an exceptionally
strong culture of founding start-up/spin-out companies as well as building strong and enduring
industrial partnerships. During REF2021, Physics staff have founded an impressive total of 13
companies (see graphic). These include PsiQuantum, the most highly funded quantum computing
start-up in the world. Together these companies have generated investment of £160M and employ
over 150 FTE (see impact case studies). Furthermore, we have worked with 72 different
companies in the UK and worldwide including major players such as GlaxoSmithKline, Airbus,
Syngenta, Northrop Grumman, Johnson & Johnson, and EDF. Our activity in quantum
technologies has directly contributed to the establishment of the Quantum Technologies Innovation
Centre (see above) which will help shape our plans for future impact in this area.




                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)




These successes arise from a strong commitment to identifying and capitalising on new and
exciting research opportunities which have great potential for impact. To achieve this, we start by
identifying areas of applied research -such as materials physics or quantum information
technologies- with strong potential for ground-breaking applications and that interface well to
industrial needs. Next, we grow strength in these areas by hiring top-flight academics with the
requisite skills, experience and enthusiasm for collaboration, entrepreneurship and engaging with
industry. Then we support and reward these individuals to engage with impact opportunities e.g.,
through developing applications to the University’s EPSRC/STFC Impact Acceleration Account
(IAA) which provides start-up funding for promising projects. Since 2014, Physics academics have
received £1.4M from the IAA for projects with 18 industrial partners, and SoP/UoB have
contributed a similar sum in terms of estates/overheads costs. We also ensure that individuals
have time to carry out impact-related activities, which are explicitly recognised in the University’s
promotion criteria.

Targeted impact initiatives
This broad strategy is underpinned by several bespoke impact-focussed measures. One is our
“Impact Roadshow” in which we visit companies to explore opportunities for joint working. In the
past 4 years we have visited 12 companies, resulting in several new collaborations, e.g., our visit
to Malvern Panalytical resulted in a representative joining our Industrial Advisory Board (see
below), and was instrumental in them signing a strategic partnership with UoB (2019) to
collaborate on student training in data science. We also run an annual 3-day quantum innovation
event (QIL) which brings together industrialists and academic researchers in quantum
technologies, with companies including Airbus, Deutsche Bank, and Hitachi. Internally, we have
provided training about the commercialisation of research, for example a lawyer led session on
intellectual property at a staff away-day, and a session on how to realise commercial impact from
research through licensing or creation of spin out companies. UoB’s Research Enterprise and
Development (RED) unit supports staff with patent applications, negotiating contracts and license
agreements with industry, and supports applications for different types of industry partnership

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
funding, such as the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund, STFC-Innovations Partnership Scheme,
InnovateUK, and Knowledge Transfer Partnerships/ Secondments.

Industrial Advisory Board (IAB)
We work hard to foster successful professional relationships between academics and key external
users. To this end, we regularly seek the expert advice of members of our highly proactive IAB.
The board meets biannually to help set the direction of our industrial, teaching and research
activities. Members include representatives from Airbus, Oxford Instruments, NNL, NPL, AWE and
Malvern-Panalytical and are chosen both for the collaborative opportunities which their sectors
provide, and for their importance as potential career destinations for our graduates. Links
established via the IAB have led to several joint ventures and Memorandums of Understanding
e.g., with Oxford Instruments and Malvern Panalytical, which facilitate skills and business training
for PhD students, and co-sponsoring of PhD projects. Indeed, as a direct result, Malvern
Panalytical established a new Data Science Hub at the Engine Shed incubator facility in Bristol in
2019. This employs 10 full-time staff and has become a favoured destination for undergraduate
placements. As stated by Malvern-Panalytical’s Vice President of R&D, Rowena Innocent: “The
decision to locate our expanding Data Science and Software development team in Bristol was a
direct result of the collaborative environment, shared research and learning opportunities offered
by the School of Physics and the wider university.”

Bespoke training for entrepreneurs
We train ECRs with promising ideas for spinout companies in the skills of entrepreneurship. To
facilitate this strategy, members of our QET Theme founded the Quantum Technology Enterprise
Centre (QTEC). This incubator supplies high-quality training for innovators in quantum-inspired
technologies and is an EPSRC Skills and Training Hub and part of the National Quantum
Technologies Programme. QTEC is housed in dedicated office/teaching space and offers a twelve-
month fellowship programme to provide academics with the requisite skills to set up successful
technology start-ups, which will underpin the UK's quantum technology industry. QTEC has
supported the creation of 31 new companies based on technologies which underpin the quantum
industry. A report in 2019 shows that a third of the UK’s funded Quantum start-ups originated at
QTEC. While many of these are still in their infancy, they have to date raised a total of £44.8M in
funding and created 126 new highly skilled jobs.



 2. People

Staffing strategy and staff development
Our success in research and impact (and equally in teaching and outreach) depends critically upon
building a working environment in which world class researchers can flourish professionally and
personally. We support our researchers so that they feel enthusiastic about their work and valued
for their contributions. Key to achieving this is a flexible and well-resourced research environment
coupled with a workplace culture that promotes positive behaviours and provides robust processes
that support career development, starting with recruitment and continuing through all levels of
career progression. Our successes during REF2021 are evidenced by a large number of
fellowship awards and promotions, as well as by marked improvements to the diversity of our
academic cohort. Great strides have also been made in improving support for staff with regard to
career progression, caring responsibilities, fair management of workload, and wellbeing.


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Current profile and recruitment and diversity strategy
Implementing the criteria for hiring academics as set out in Section 1, has led to a large scale and
highly successful renewal of our academic cohort. The starting profile of the 19 appointees during
REF2021, fig a), demonstrates our emphasis on attracting excellent junior academics, coupled with
strategic appointments of established academics to rapidly enact our research strategy. In addition
to appointing topflight external candidates, we maintain a healthy pipeline of homegrown talent:
Gradhand, Laing, Payton and Skrzypczyk were mentored to win prestigious fellowships and
subsequently gained a permanent academic post. Several junior appointees feature strongly in our
REF2021 outputs: Laing (5 papers), Wakeford (5), Skrzypczyk (5), Payton (3), Gradhand (3).

The current overall School profile demonstrates an excellent mix of senior and junior staff. With
few retirements expected in the next 5 years, our priority will be to nurture new recruits to realize
their full potential (see below). A strong group of research-active emeritus professors (including 4
FRS) contribute actively to School life and act as mentors for junior academics.




To support our drive for interdisciplinarity, we have invested in 7 joint appointments (4 since 2014)
with both Electrical Engineering (EE) and Chemistry to synthesise knowledge and techniques from
the individual disciplines when solving problems at the interface. Joint appointments with EE are in
quantum technologies. Those with Chemistry are in colloids and active matter, and materials
science. These appointments support our impact strategy (Section 1) by providing an excellent link
between novel chemical growth and fabrication methods and materials characterisation using
cutting edge instrumentation. As joint appointments with EE are inter-faculty, a special board
chaired by the respective Deans helps coordinate research and supports staff needs.

Developing our academics
A range of support is available for the career development of staff, ensuring that they can become
international research leaders.




                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
The central RED team supports all forms of research, enterprise, and knowledge transfer and
offers advice and support on funding opportunities, project management, research proposal
preparation, stimulating collaborations with other universities and business, intellectual property
management and commercialisation of research through consultancy, contracts, and spin outs.

Fellowships are a key enabler of research success and 31 fellowships (see Section 4) have been
held in REF2021 including 9 ERCs, 6 EPSRC and 5 Marie Sklodowska-Curie. Preparation of
applications is supported within the SoP by detailed internal peer review processes (also used for
other grant applications) and centrally by RED. Fellowship bids requiring equipment are supported
through faculty capital investment and cross-faculty practice interviews.

A prerequisite for research success is balancing the demands of teaching, administration, and
research. A comprehensive workload allocation model for academic staff was introduced during
REF2021 and has been widely welcomed by staff. It ensures that academic duties are distributed
fairly and transparently, assuring that workload is manageable, and that no member of staff is
disadvantaged for example because of their gender or contracted working hours. The model
assigns reduced workload to staff returning from long-term caring or sickness leave. Allowance is
made in the model for the disproportionate burden placed on female staff by serving on University
committees. The model was developed by a diverse team of academics ensuring that the widest
possible range of experiences could be incorporated, and their proposals were scrutinised by the
Equality Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) committee.

The University funds sabbaticals enabling academics to focus on research for one academic year
(see REF 5a). Additionally, staff members finishing major administrative roles are afforded a year
without teaching and administrative duties to concentrate on research. During REF2021, 8
academics have benefited from sabbaticals. Honorary Senior Research Fellowships support the
contribution of 7 emeritus staff to the research and academic life of the School.

Academic and research staff participate in an annual Staff Review and Development process
where they reflect on their achievements and aspirations. The review is conducted by a more
experienced colleague at the same academic level or one above, giving reviewees the chance to
receive advice from someone who has recently been in their shoes. The review process provides
an opportunity to flag up matters to the Head of School such as additional support requirements
including those related to protected characteristics. Overall participation rates are high (80%),
reflecting the success and popularity of the process.

A mentoring scheme introduced in 2018 has been well-received by junior academics. The
scheme is being extended to all staff who wish to participate. Each mentee is paired with an
experienced and enthusiastic mentor from a different research area. The relationship is supported
by SoP guidelines to ensure development of a range of skills from building confidence to writing
grant applications.

Advice on career progression is provided through Staff Review, mentorship, and the SoP
Promotion Advisory Committee, which provides guidance on applications. The committee shares
two members with the EDI committee and encourages strong (but reticent) candidates to apply, as
well as ensuring that no-one with a protected characteristic is unfairly overlooked. Applicants are
encouraged to submit an EDI statement to the panel. Since 2014, the University has promoted 6 of
the School’s academic staff to Professor (including one woman) and 7 to Senior Lecturer or

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Reader/Associate Professor (including 3 women). The criteria for promotion have recently been
transformed to explicitly recognise and reward impact-generating (industrial, community and policy-
facing) activities. This change highlights and values the activities in which many staff in the SoP
are involved.

Nurturing Early Career Researchers
Our strategy of focussing recruitment on talented ECRs is backed up by continuing support for
their careers. New academics typically receive funds to establish their research programme and
access facilities such as the Cleanroom. They are prioritised in the distribution of PhD studentships
and receive reduced teaching and administrative duties during their first three years. Our anti-
casualisation policies have steadily reduced use of fixed term contracts so that 96% of our
REF2021 Category A staff with teaching commitments have an open-ended contract with secure
core-funding.

The probationary process for new academics is carefully managed with the primary aim being to
accelerate research careers. In their first year, new academics meet regularly with the Head of
School, their Theme leader, and their mentor to discuss progress. A central Staff Development
team facilitates the CREATE course to enhance academic practice and gain a nationally
recognised qualification (FHEA), see REF5a. Substantial advice is given in preparing EPSRC First
Grant/New Investigator proposals, and 66% of these have been successful during REF2021. We
also fund leadership training, including that aimed at female staff, and have supported several to
apply for and take part in the Aurora and Bristol’s FLi Leadership programmes, reporting that they
have gained valuable new skills and increased confidence.

Our research strength is enhanced by our large cohort of 57 postdoctoral researchers. The
University is a signatory of the Concordat to support research staff development. Staff
Development and the Bristol Clear programme supplies a wide variety of developmental,
leadership and generic skills training, including grant writing workshops and peer-to-peer
mentoring (REF5a). The SoP is represented on the UoB Research Staff Representation and
Working Party which ensures dissemination of best practice in supporting researchers and their
career development. The Physics Early Careers Forum acts as a point of support, information and
advocacy for research staff and liaises with the Head of School to ensure implementation of the
Concordat. To supply opportunities for ECRs to showcase their research to colleagues, we reserve
slots at the School colloquia. When funding expires, research staff are considered for
redeployment and retraining within UoB.

Wellbeing is central to our strategic aims and data from the University’s staff and Athena SWAN
surveys informs our action plan. This has resulted in wellbeing becoming a focus of the staff review
which starts with the question “How have you found this year?”. The School’s new Code of
Conduct (2019) constructed around the core Theme of “Inspire, Respect, Include”, is similarly
designed to support positive behaviours and wellbeing. The University runs a staff mental health
and wellbeing service, offering Staff Counselling and courses on topics such as Building Inner
Resilience, Five Ways to Wellbeing, and Mindfulness in 8 Weeks. All staff and students are
regularly sent updates on these activities via the weekly Physics News bulletin and are encouraged
to attend the University Staff Health and Wellbeing Roadshow.




                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Postgraduate Training: Support and Supervision




Our PGR strategy is founded on sustainable growth as measured by: (1) the number of students,
particularly in partnership with external stakeholders; and (2) the quality of the training, support,
and supervision environment.

Sources of studentships and growth
Principal sources of studentships are Centres for Doctoral Training (CDT), EPSRC Doctoral
Training Partnership (DTP), STFC, industry, and legacy bequests. The School provides an
excellent PGR training environment as recognised in successive awards for cohort-led thematic
CDTs since 2008. Over the assessment period we have led four EPSRC CDTs:
   •   Quantum Engineering, I (2014-2022)
   •   Quantum Engineering, 2 (2019-2027)
   •   Condensed Matter Physics (2014-2022)
   •   The Bristol Centre for Functional Nanomaterials (BCFN) (2008-2023),
and are partners in further four UKRI CDTs:
   •   Data Intensive (2017-2024) (led by Cardiff)
   •   Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and Advanced Computing (2019-2027) (led by
       Swansea)
   •   Nuclear Energy Futures (2019-2027) (led by Imperial College)
   •   Diamond Science and technology (2014-2022) (led by Warwick)

The Condensed Matter CDT with Bath continues to offer an extensive programme of shared
training courses, lectures and activities co-delivered as part of a wider GW4 collaboration. The
BCFN continues to cater for a demand for PGR training in nanomaterials with strong industry
involvement.




                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Thanks to a history of large donations, including a generous bequest from the family of a former
academic of £6M in 2018, the SoP supports up to four new studentships per year. These funds
allow us to admit a diverse cohort of international students and form collaborations with industry
which would otherwise be more difficult, e.g., by leveraging matched funding in a way which the
DTP does not allow. The task of marketing our programme to international students is supported
by the International Office and the School’s team of international ambassadors.

The quality of the SoP PGR training environment is evidenced and endorsed by the continual
attraction of highest quality students to the programmes: applications are oversubscribed tenfold.
The School has attracted 13 China Scholarship Council (CSC) PhD students since 2017, and
recruitment remains very strong from other countries. This, together with success in attracting
industry co-funded studentships, has helped maintain large PGR intake numbers. The current
cohort comprises 184 PhD students (85 in CDTs) and 13 MScR students. This represents an
impressive 63% increase over REF2014.

A total of 44 different companies have partnered with our PGR programmes during REF2021 with
43 PhD studentships having been 50% funded by industry (see Section 3). Bristol boasts a
vibrant SME and start-up sector, and we tap into this to give PGRs first rate entrepreneurial
training, working with local incubator ecosystems Unit DX and Spin-Up Science (the latter founded
by one of our PhD Alumni in 2015).

Physics Graduate School and Student Voice
All Physics PGR students belong to The Physics Graduate School and the Bristol Doctoral College
(BDC). Alongside training and supervision support, the Graduate School organises social events
and cohort-building activities. It is led by an Academic Director, a deputy and 2 FTE of
administrative support. In addition to the nuts and bolts of delivering a successful and dynamic
PGR ecosystem, the Graduate School carries out all Faculty PGR processes and provides an
extensive student support system, with mechanisms for students to receive advice, pastoral
support, mentorship and interfaces to other student and wellbeing services (see graphic).




                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Our proactive Student Staff Liaison Committee (SSLC) has two PGR representatives from each
Research Theme, and two representatives from the SoP EDI Committee. There are 6 meetings per
year to ensure coverage of the PGR brief, and all meetings are chaired by a PGR student. The
national Postgraduate Researcher Experience Survey (PRES) is strongly promoted in the School
and PGR representatives interrogate the survey data in partnership with the Graduate School to
inform improvements in practice and policy. This relates to the Education Action Plan (EAP)
process which is the School’s working document which governs the PGR environment, and which
feeds into the Faculty structure as part of a rigorous quality assurance system of PGR governance.
The process of student-led interrogation of PRES data, and the use of this analysis to drive
progressive policy change has been commended as “best practice” by the Bristol University Quality
Team and will be disseminated to other Schools and Faculties.

Diversity
A key aim of the EAP is to increase the diversity of our PGR student population by fostering an
ever-stronger culture of inclusivity. Advertising material has been made more appealing to
prospective students with protected characteristics by demonstrating the welcoming, tolerant, and
supportive environment. The School’s recruitment of female PGRs is above the national average
(30% average over REF2021 compared with 21.9% nationally). Women are equally likely as men
to be made an offer of study or to accept an offer from us. We welcome applications from students
who wish to study part-time or take leave due to caring responsibilities or ill health.

Training Opportunities
The emphasis on training enshrined in our successful CDT portfolio has deepened our
commitment to PGR training for all students. We have completely overhauled our PGR induction
programme with an extensive 3-week programme of events which are extremely well attended.
This segues into the wider SoP training programme which alongside skills development
opportunities in communication, writing and project planning, provides collaborative sessions led
by companies on business-ready skillsets to support translation of research ideas to the
commercial sphere, and to aid employability. The school-wide programme integrates with the
tailored provision offered by Research Themes, CDTs, and wider University level programmes
offered by the BDC. The latter includes the QAA-commended Personal and Professional
Development Programme which features courses on project management, thesis writing, time
management, presenting to diverse audiences, and outreach. The annual Research Without
Borders PGR festival provides opportunities to work collaboratively with students from other
disciplines. The SoP is developing new interfaces with the Careers Service to support the career
prospects for PGR students, including promotion of the Bristol PLUS employability scheme.

Supervision
Each PGR student has two supervisors, chosen with the aim of maximising academic guidance
and pastoral support. The central Academic Staff Development service provides staff training in
high quality supervision, and this is complemented within the SoP by extensive mentorship activity
and specific targeted training interventions. For interdisciplinary and some CDT projects,
supervisor teams may span subject boundaries and Universities. For PGRs co-funded by industry
(for example, Malvern Panalytical), we are promoting supervisory practices which retain all aspects
of the academic environment and add to that reporting and professional development aspects of
the commercial culture.




                                                                                          Page 19
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Progression and Assessment
Students have an Annual Progress Monitoring interview with two academics, neither of whom is
part of the supervisory team. Following input from SSLC and PRES survey data, this process now
places a stronger emphasis on personal and professional development. In year one, the interview
assesses understanding of the project context and promotes discussion on the research
environment; in later years there is a fuller research report to assess progress, and in the final
year, a discussion of thesis plans. Interviews consider supervisory arrangements, wider training
needs and opportunities to support the student to progress professionally as well as in their
research.

Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion

Promoting diversity and Athena SWAN
The School supports all staff and students to realise their academic and personal potential
irrespective of their gender, ethnicity, sexuality, disability, age, religion, and economic background.
As part of our diversity agenda, in 2018 we agreed a set of 42 concrete actions which aim to make
a real difference to those who work and study here. Examples of specific actions we implemented
are: developing a code of conduct (see above), improvements to building accessibility, expanding
provision of specialist equipment for office working, ensuring that deadlines for applications for
internal research funds are announced well ahead of time, and an expectation that research
seminars and committees are set to family-friendly hours.

Responsibility for fulfilling these actions falls to the EDI Committee, which is comprised of
undergraduate and postgraduate students and staff of various categories and seniority (including
the Head of School). The committee is gender-balanced and ethnically diverse. It is quick to
respond to queries and suggestions from staff and students about how they can be better
supported to conduct their research. A focus is ensuring that processes within the School promote
inclusivity, thereby leading to a safe and welcoming environment for everyone. School Assemblies
feature EDI items such as workshops on working together in a respectful manner, and unconscious
bias. University networks support BAME and LGBTQ+ staff. We show support for our LGBTQ+
staff and students via a prominent flag in the main foyer, laptop stickers, encouraging the wearing
of a LGBTQ+ themed lanyard, and encouraging use of gender pronoun labels on emails. The
Women in the School of Physics group is open to all staff and students who identify as female and
organises regular lunches and seminars. In decision-making around accessing internal funds, the
School Executive ensure that they consider equality and diversity. Research-related leadership
roles are advertised within the School and are open to all academic staff, with those from minority
groups particularly encouraged to apply.

Our primary EDI focus has been the recruitment of a new and diverse group of staff. The fraction of
female research staff in REF2014 was below the sector average. In response, recruitment
procedures were overhauled to include more gender-neutral advertising material and soliciting
applications from qualified members of under-represented groups. When shortlisting, the chair of
the EDI committee checks that no excellent candidates have been overlooked unfairly, e.g.,
because of a career break for caring responsibilities. These interventions have resulted in a greater
number of high-quality female applicants applying to our roles and has carried through to
appointments. In 2018/2019, 3 of our 6 new academic positions – Liu, Wakeford, McManus - were
filled by women and 2 were filled by BAME candidates. Overall, in this submission 19% of staff
are female (up from 8% in 2014). In 2019, we successfully renewed our Athena SWAN bronze

                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
and Juno practitioner awards and aim to attain Athena SWAN silver and Juno champion status by
2022.

We have been successful in raising the attendance of female attendees at our conferences, for
example female attendees at BQIT have risen from 13% to 31% during REF2021.

Support for carers
The University’s Returning Carer’s scheme provides funds to help re-establish research for staff
returning from parental/caring leave. Support is also provided by the SoP Parents and Carers
Group (established 2019) which provides coaching, advice on HR policies and procedures, social
activities, and risk assessments. The group has helped establish a private space to express and
store breast milk. Help in managing workload for staff with caring responsibilities is provided via the
University’s flexible working policy and timetabling policies. Typically, around 10 staff per year take
advantage of these policies.

Building a sense of community
The School’s executive team (led by Wilding as Head of School) sets a tone of transparency,
clarity, inclusion, and collegiality. We celebrate colleagues’ successes via the weekly Physics
News bulletin. Our termly “Physics by the cake” event offers an opportunity for staff to showcase
their research or outside interests to a general audience of academic and professional services
staff in a relaxed social setting. Other popular social events are our Christmas and summer parties
to which all staff and their families are invited.

REF and EDI
This REF submission was compiled in accordance with the University’s REF code of conduct, as
described in REF 5a.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research income and strategy
New awards for research (including studentships) over the REF2021 period totalled £105M. This
figure comprises £80M of research funding and industry supported studentships, and £25M for
Doctoral training or studentships from UKRI. These awards represent a substantial increase
compared with £38M of new funding reported in REF2014. The breakdown of funders is (see
graphic): UK funding councils (66%), European Research Councils (16%), Industry (8%) and
Charities (7%). UoB provided £2M for capital equipment and laboratory refurbishments. Our
Research income during REF2021 as reported in REF4b (as opposed to the new awards above)
was £57.6M (£8.2M/annum). This again shows a substantial increase over the £28.8M
(£5.8M/annum) reported in REF2014.




                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)




Source of PI Research Awards for Bristol Physics during REF2021, excluding studentships except
those funded by Industry.


In part, the increase in our research funding has resulted from our involvement in major consortia
and large-scale collaborative programmes often including industry. We are members of 3 EPSRC
Quantum Technology Hubs: Quantum Enhanced Imaging, Quantum Computing and Simulation,
and Quantum Communications (£2.4M of awards in REF2021) and lead the QuPIC programme
(£4.6M) to establish a UK quantum device prototyping service. Our QET Theme is also part of the
EU QuChip programme (£300K). Our materials researchers participate in 6 programme consortia:
NCNR, RAIN, CHIMP, ASPIRE, PACIFIC, DISTINCTIVE (~£5M awards in total). Our researchers
working on semiconductor devices lead a EPSRC programme grant GaN-DaME (£4.3M), platform
grant MANGI (£1.5M) and are also part of the EU H2020 HEATPACK consortium (£220K).

We have many direct research partnerships with companies which do not involve UKRI or EU
participation. During REF2021 we have worked with 89 different companies worldwide, resulting in
over £7.7M of industrial funding income (including £1.6M for consultancy). These include AWE
£1.6M, Sellafield £1.0M, EDF £640K, Rolls-Royce £420K, and Northrop £400K. Capitalising on
impact acceleration (IAA) funding is a key part of our impact strategy and SoP has received £1.4M
of IAA funding spread over ~60 projects which include 18 industrial partners. These small-scale
projects are drivers for larger future collaborations and technology transfer.

Project funding
Our success in winning major grants during REF2021 highlights both the research excellence of
our staff and the quality of our research environment and the support it offers. Beyond the specific
funding listed, there are dozens of other high profile intra-and inter-disciplinary projects from
sources such as EPSRC, STFC, InnovateUK, ERC, USAirforce, GCRF, and Leverhulme. Our
major success in Fellowship awards is detailed in Section 4.




                                                                                            Page 22
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Equality of opportunity
Internal funding, including studentships, equipment funds and facility access, is prioritised to kick-
start research by ECRs or those returning from career/funding breaks. Fellowship applications are
supported by mock panels and mentoring from experienced colleagues. The workload model
allocates a minimum of 0.4 FTE of individual staff time for research.

Research Infrastructure and Facilities
Crucial for generating internationally leading outputs and impacts and maintaining our funding
base, are access to world class facilities and infrastructure both in Bristol, the UK and world-wide.
Below is a summary of the facilities we use.

 Local Equipment and Facilities                                External Facilities
 Environment                   Analysis / Spectroscopy         Diamond Light Source (DLS)
   Superconducting             NanoESCA                        ISIS
   Magnets                     FIB/SEM/AFM/TEM                 Institute Laue-Langevin (ILL)
   Low Temperature             3D X-Ray Tomography             ESRF
   Cryostats                   SAXS-WAXS                       Paul Scherrer Institute (PSI)
   High Pressure Cells         Raman Microscopy Suite          APS / ALS
   Helium Liquefier            SQUID Magnetometer              Spring-8
   NSQI building               Nanoscope                       DESY
 Device / Material Fabrication X-Ray Diffraction Suite*        EMFL
   Clean Room/Fab Suite        NMR Suite *                     National Epitaxy Service (NES)
   Materials Prep Lab          EPMA*                           Astronomy
   Thin-Film Deposition        Bioimaging Facility§             ESO:VLT & ALMA
 Computing                     Workshops                        ESA:Gaia, XMM-Newton, Euclid,
   Bluecrystal HPC                Mechanical                         HST, JWST
   DICE data cluster              Electronics                   NASA:Chandra, Suzaku, NuStar
                                  Glass                         LOFAR
                                                                NRAO:JVLA
                                 * based in Chemistry          Particle Physics
                                 § based in Life Sciences        CERN : CMS/LHCb
                                                                 SURF:DUNE/LZ
                                                                 PSI : Mu3e

Local equipment and facilities
The total value of our large-scale laboratory equipment exceeds £35M. Technical support is
provided by 6 SoP technicians who support the running and maintenance of this infrastructure.
The Science Faculty supports centralised workshops for the manufacture of bespoke equipment
which is essential to much of our research. These include Mechanical, Electronic and
Glass/Ceramics workshops and approximately 6 FTE is used annually by SoP. Centralised
computing support handles both day-to-day office computing and specialist research requirements.

Clean Room: This high-spec facility housed in Physics, opened in 2015 with a build cost of £1.8M,
supports experimental activity across the School. It hosts a wide spectrum of nanofabrication
tools, including electron beam lithography, a laser mask writer, and a variety of wafer etching,
deposition, and analysis instruments (total value £5.8M, with £3.8M of new equipment in
REF2021). It is essential to the work of several research Themes including QET (fabrication of


                                                                                              Page 23
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
photonic devices- see case study); Materials and Devices (ultra-high-power electronic materials
and uranium based spintronics); Quantum and Soft Matter (active colloidal Janus particles).

The Interface Analysis Centre hosts an array of analytical equipment for conducting surface,
materials and solution analysis. Equipment investment in the REF2021 period totals £4.9M. Key
instruments include: 2 focused ion beam (FIB) instruments, 2 SEMs, a thin-film magnetron
sputtering laboratory, a X-ray Tomography suite for high resolution 3D absorption imaging and 3
high-speed AFMs. Beside work on nuclear materials, the centre also collaborates with Rolls-Royce
on aerospace engine turbine blades. Other work is developing high-speed AFM and Raman
techniques for DNA mapping and medical devices (see case study).

The Centre for Device Thermography and Reliability host a wide range of instruments for analysing
semiconductor devices, particularly high power and microwave devices. High resolution Raman
thermal imaging and infra-red thermography equipment underpins the group’s industrial
collaborations with more than 20 companies. New investment in REF2021 includes a Nano-
indenter (£1M), X-ray CT scanner (£500K) and an AFM, together with £200K of laboratory
upgrades (UoB funded). This has considerably enhanced capabilities for device failure analysis
and the quantification of the stability of interfaces in heterogeneously integrated semiconductor
devices.

Low temperature and high magnetic field facilities: Our six superconducting magnet systems (14-
19 Tesla) operate at temperatures down to 0.02K and are used to study high-Tc superconductors
and other correlated-electron systems within the QSM and QET research Themes. This very
extensive array of adaptable equipment gives us an edge in this highly competitive international
field. More than £5M of funding was awarded in REF2021, including 2 ERC grants, to study high
temperature superconductivity. A key use of the equipment is in preparing experiments for runs at
international centres such as the European Magnetic Field Laboratory (EMFL). Such preparation is
essential to be awarded access to these facilities (£2.5M usage of EMFL in REF2021).

A SQUID magnetometer (£350K, installed 2018) is used extensively by researchers in Physics and
Chemistry working on novel materials, for example, measuring the effects of high pressure on the
magnetic properties of superconductors. Our helium liquefier recycles helium (around 25,000
litres/year) for users including the cryomagnetic facility, QET and the NanoESCA (below).
Recycling conserves this precious resource and lowers the cost to funders to around one third of
the commercial rate.

Our high-pressure laboratory provides infrastructure, equipment, and skills for high-pressure
measurements in excess of 200GPa. Customised pressure cells permit cryogenic use as well as in
international high magnetic field facilities. These rare capabilities enable ground-breaking research
in high-Tc superconductivity, particularly that involving novel hydrogen-based compounds which is
funded by the ERC grant HPSuper (£1.6M). The facility supports collaborative projects across the
University, including research on aqueous fluids in the Earth's crust (grant with Earth Sciences).

Bio/Soft matter suite: A SAXS-WAXS X-ray scattering instrument (£450K) allows structural
determination of materials across length scales from 0.3nm to 150nm. It facilitates research of the
QSM and Materials and Devices Themes into biomolecules, membranes and multifunctional gels.
A stimulated emission depletion (STED) nanoscope (£700K), is used for 3D imaging of bulk
polymers, proteins and amphiphiles. These instruments have driven cross-disciplinary

                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
collaborations, particularly with Life-Sciences. For example, SAXS structural information was key
to a recent pharmacological collaboration on a drug loaded supramolecular nucleoside gel.

NanoESCA II is a cutting-edge multi-platform instrument installed 2016 (EPSRC £1.8M, UoB
£200K) which has capabilities that are unique in the UK. It permits extremely high-resolution
analysis of surface structure using PEEM, XPS, LEED and µ-ARPES to evaluate band-structure on
a micron-scale. The instrument supports research across the MD and QSM Themes, facilitating
for example, research into the electronic structure of low dimensional materials such as
dichalcogenides, multi-layer graphene and device structures based on diamond and gallium nitride.

High Performance Computing (HPC) is critical to maintaining a lead in our condensed matter and
materials research. UoB has invested £16M in HPC and research data storage in the last 10 years.
BlueCrystal (introduced 2017) has 15K CPU cores, 17 high memory nodes and 65 GPUs. In
addition, UoB and STFC have invested £330K since 2015 in the Data Intensive Computing
Environment (1.9K cores and 2.4PB disk), to provide cutting-edge high-throughput data analysis.
This SoP cluster is essential for research in the Particle Physics and Astrophysics Themes and
underpins our partnership in the Big Data and AI CDTs. UoB researchers also have access to
GW4 supercomputer Isambard, a Cray XC50 system with over 21,000 cores.

External facilities
We are users of major national and international facilities. The total income-in-kind from UKRI-
supported facilities is £54M including £38M for CERN (see graphic for others). For non-UKRI
supported facilities, the income-in-kind is £27M (see table) for projects with a Bristol PI.

Usage of UKRI Supported Facilities (excluding CERN) by value



                                          EMFL     European Magnetic Fields
                                                   Laboratory
                                          DLS      Diamond Light Source
                                          ISIS     Neutron and Muon Source
                                          ESRF     European Synchrotron Radiation
                                                   Facility
                                          ILL      Institut Laue–Langevin
                                          NES      National Epitaxy Service
                                          ESO      European Southern Observatory
                                          XMM      X-ray space observatory




                                                                                           Page 25
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Usage of non-UKRI supported facilities.
 Facility                      Type                      Location          Usage         Est. Cost
 Advanced Photon Source        Synchrotron               Argonne, USA      23 days       £299K
 SNQ @ PSI                     Neutron Source            Switzerland       6 days        £96K
 PETRA @ DESY                  Synchrotron               Germany           6 days        £78K
 Spring8                       Synchrotron               Japan             51 days       £530K
 Advanced Light Source         Synchrotron               Berkley, USA      8 days        £50K
 Chandra                       Satellite                 NASA              3165 ks       £25M
 LOFAR                         Terrestrial Telescope     Netherlands       41 hours      £98K
 VLA                           Terrestrial Telescope     NRAO, USA         32.5 hours    £176K
 NuStar                        Satellite                 NASA              58 hours      £300K
 Suzaku                        Satellite                 JAXA / NASA       27.5 hours    £150K
                                                         (Japan/USA)



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaboration
Our research is characterised by a large volume of strong collaborations that span the globe. Over
half of our outputs include an international co-author. Staff are strongly encouraged to form
collaborations and join networks with leading researchers worldwide. Doing so is supported by the
School’s Research Initiator Fund, University International fund and by support for regular visits by
leading scientists to Bristol. The table quantifies the volume of our success in this regard.

                             National collaborations               189
                             International collaborations          238
                             Interdisciplinary collaborations      188
                             Industrial collaborations             126
                             Consortia/networks                    69

Sections 1 and 3 detail collaboration highlights.

Interdisciplinarity
We work hard to foster interactions with academics in other disciplines and 7 staff have joint
appointments (see Section 2). The multi-disciplinary nature of our CDTs also provides major
stimulus for interdisciplinary research. To leverage opportunities for cross-university interactions,
staff work together with University Institutes such as the Jean Golding Institute and Bristol
Quantum Information Institute (see Section 1). Staff are active in interdisciplinary consortia and
networks on the national and international stage, for instance:
   •   EPSRC: NetworkPlus, CCPQ, CCP5, PoL
   •   H2020: HEATPACK, PowerBase, QuantERA;
   •   EU COST Actions: Nanoscale Quantum Optics, Quantum Thermodynamics, Topology
   •   JWST ERS exoplanet community consortium




                                                                                              Page 26
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Contributions to the discipline
Our academics have delivered over 450 invited talks at international meetings during the
REF2021 period. Highlights include:
   •   7th Asian Colloid and Polymer Conference, Kuala Lumpur, 2017 (Keynote, Seddon)
   •   International Liquid Crystal Conference in Kyoto, 2018, associated with the award of the
       Glenn H. Brown prize (Prize talk, Machon)
   •   Thermodynamics, Edinburgh 2017 (Plenary, Wilding)
   •   XXXV Bienal de la RSEF, Gijón, Spain 2015 (Plenary, Carrington)
   •   SPIE Photonics West, San Francisco, USA, 2017 (Keynote, Kuball)
   •   International Nanotechnology Laboratory, Braga 2017 (Plenary, Oulton)
   •   Women in Quantum Technologies, Brussels (Plenary, Oulton)

We have organised or co-organised over 100 scientific meetings such as BQIT and Frontiers in
Condensed Matter Physics. Further contributions arise from the following activities and grants:
   •   QTEC, an entrepreneurial training centre resulted from a £4.4M EPSRC grant in 2015 (see
       Section 1). It has created 31 new companies (24 of which are still active) and 126 jobs.
       Successful companies include four based directly on technology developed in the QET
       Theme (Raycal, QLM, KETS, FluoretiQ - see Impact Case).
   •   In 2016 the SoP established the South West Nuclear Hub supported by £2.4M from
       HEFCE’s Catalyst Fund. This provides a focus for civil nuclear research, innovation, and
       skills in the region. The Hub partners with industry and academia to promote civil nuclear
       research and teaching activities. It involves 4 Physics academics and employs 2 FTE of
       industrial engagement support.
   •   The QE-CDT has pioneered the innovative Careers in Quantum event, showcasing the
       work of quantum technology start-ups and established industry. The event includes the
       world’s first quantum job fair.

We are proactive in engaging with external agencies and stakeholders to help set funding and
strategic priorities. Since 2014 we have been represented on 120 committees, highlights being:
   •   Seddon: EPSRC Physical Sciences Strategic Advisory Team (SAT); EPSRC High Level
       Group for National Research Facilities; Chair peer review panel for soft matter beamlines at
       Diamond
   •   Bremer: Vice Chair and Chair, STFC Project Peer Review Panel
   •   Popescu: Royal Society Selection Committee (choosing new Fellows)
   •   Kuball: EPSRC Information and Communication Technologies SAT
   •   Scott: Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE); EPSRC Fusion Advisory Board;
       Special Advisor to the House of Lords Science and Technology Committee
   •   Birkinshaw: Chair, Quantum Technologies for Fundamental Physics panel; Chair, Square
       Kilometer Array oversight committee; Chair, NASA review of the Chandra X-ray satellite
       programme
   •   Hayden: STFC Science Board, Chair of user Committee for i21 RIXS instrument
       (Diamond); Board, PACE data analysis project at ISIS
   •   Hussey: Executive Board, High Magnetic Fields Laboratory
   •   Goldstein: Chair STFC Particle Physics (experiment) grants panel; IPPP Steering
       Committee




                                                                                           Page 27
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Engagement with key research users
We actively encourage staff to undertake secondments or part time appointments to work with, or
to start, a company. Our extremely proactive Industrial Advisory Board (see Section 1) helps to
guide our portfolio of industrial links and our Impact Roadshow (Section 1) and Quantum
Innovation Lab to bring together industrialists and researchers in quantum technologies, with
companies including Airbus, Deutsche Bank, Hitachi, helping to establish contacts and
collaborations. Our Impact Case Studies demonstrate the breadth and depth of engagement, as do
our 13 spin out companies since 2014 and award of 9 patents (with a further 9 pending).

Editorships
The School engages extensively on an editorial level with scientific journals. 19 members of the
School hold editorships in journals including New J. Phys., Molecular Physics. J. Optics, MNRAS,
Quantum, Icarus, Nanotechnology, J. Mat. Sci., Scientific Reports.

Public engagement
This is an area about which we are particularly passionate and dedicate much resource. It is
coordinated via our academic outreach director, CDT outreach officers and admin staff. A focus is
widening participation in Physics from disadvantaged local schools. Events include:
   •   An annual week-long work experience programme introduces local children to laboratory
       work and provides accessible talks on topics related to our research.
   •   Workshops tailored to year groups designed to supplement pupils’ practical skills. Activities
       begin with an introductory talk about the science, then the students complete experiments
       on topics such as “Waves” and “Fun with Liquid Nitrogen”.
   •   A week-long summer school on quantum phenomena and light. Aimed at ages 16+, this
       free event includes lectures and demonstrations. The QET Theme’s extensive outreach
       activities won the outreach team category of UoB’s 2017 engagement awards for the
       breadth of activities and how this has facilitated a shift in culture in the research area.
   •   The Particle Physics Masterclass - an annual one-day workshop for sixth formers.
       Attendees meet our researchers, learn about their latest work at the LHC, and get a chance
       to analyse LHC data.

Several staff work with local teachers to support the curriculum, giving talks in schools on topics
such as ‘A beginners Guide to Space’ and ‘The Future of Physics’. We also co-organise subsidised
events for Schools as part of the STEM outreach programme of the Unit DX incubator and IoP
South West.

In terms of wider outreach
   •   The School funded and led the 2019 Soapbox Science event in Bristol to promote Women
       in Science, attracting 300 visitors.
   •   QET Theme were selected to exhibit at the Royal Society Summer Exhibition in 2017
       (13000 attendees).
   •   Bristol leads the UK arm of HiSPARC, delivering cosmic ray detector kits and software to
       23 secondary schools allowing students to participate in research.
   •   Our CDTs boast a strong outreach component and PhD students help deliver this,
       contributing displays and demonstrations related to our research. These are exhibited at
       cultural festivals including Blue Dot, Green Man, Cheltenham Science Festival, and
       Malvern Science in the Park.

                                                                                           Page 28
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
   •   In 2016 the School purchased a branded “Bristol Physics on the Road” van to transport
       staff and equipment to events.
   •   The SoP was awarded £10K from the Royal Society of Chemistry for our outreach
       programme in 2019, allowing construction of a `laser piano’ and other outreach
       showpieces.

Media work is another focus. In 2015, Popescu appeared in Through the Wormhole with Morgan
Freeman (Discovery Channel) to talk about “Can Time go Backwards?” which was viewed 350,000
times. Wakeford co-produces “Exocast" a regular 30-minute podcast on exoplanets with over 50
episodes to date. Each episode has ~1000 unique listens. She also runs an annual twitter-based
competition ExoCup - which makes on average 350,000 impressions on Twitter throughout the
month-long competition. She has given over 20 public talks, with a highlight being the Franklin
Institute in Philadelphia for their women in Science Astronomy night. Currently Wakeford is working
with a YouTuber producing videos asking if planets in sci-fi could really exist. One of these videos
is based around Star Wars and has had 1.3 million views and another based on the Marvel
Universe has 700,000 views.

Measures of Esteem

Prizes:
   •   Popescu: 2017 elected FRS
   •   Popescu: 2016 IoP Dirac medal and the Cozzarelli prize
   •   Hayden: 2019 IoP Mott Prize
   •   Carrington: 2015 IoP Brian Pippard prize.
   •   Hanna 2020: IoP Rosalind Franklin prize (Physics of Life UK Network)
   •   Smith 2020: IoP Phillips prize
   •   Guillamon: 2015 Oxford Instruments Kurti prize
   •   Machon: 2018 Glenn H. Brown prize (International Liquid Crystal Society)
   •   Scott: 2015 UKSAF Vickerman Prize
   •   Royall: 2019 Humboldt Foundation Bessel Award
   •   Springell, Scott: 2020 RSC Industry-Academic Collaboration Prize
   •   Martin: IOM3 2017 Cook/Ablett award
   •   South West Nuclear Hub: The Engineer: Academic Innovator prize
   •   Paramesvaran: CMS Young Researchers Prize 2017
   •   Wakeford: NASA Robert H. Goddard Honor Award for individual scientific achievement
       2016; Geological Society of Washington’s Bradley Award 2017
   •   Antognozzi, Oulton: Longitude Discovery Award 2017
   •   Kuball 2019: Fellow IEEE
   •   36 further minor prizes (such as poster prizes) have been awarded to PDRAs and PhD
       students.

Fellowships and Chairs:
   •   2 RAEng Chairs in Emerging Technologies (10 years): Kuball and O’Brien
   •   RAEng Professorial Fellow: Scott (5 years)
   •   9 ERCs (including 2 advanced) were held during the REF period: O’Brien(x3), Royall,
       Thompson, Friedemann, Rademacker, Matthews, Hussey
   •   5 Marie Sklodowska-Curie: Badoux, Magalhaes, Marshall, McCutcheon, Sahin

                                                                                           Page 29
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
   •   6 EPSRC fellowships: Faulkner, Laing, Liu, Matthews, Oulton, Royall
   •   1 Royal Commission 1851 Brunel Fellow: Liu
   •   2 Royal Academy of Engineering: Payton, Martin
   •   1 STFC Advanced: Leinhardt
   •   1 STFC ERF: Whitehead
   •   2 Leverhulme: Gradhand, Matthews
   •   1 URF: Skrzypczyk.




                                                                             Page 30
