Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Derby

 Unit of Assessment: 4 Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and structure
 Unit of Assessment (UoA) 4 includes 18 researchers from the School of Human Sciences in the
 College of Life and Natural Sciences (LNS) and 12 researchers from University of Derby Online
 Learning (UDOL), plus one from the College of Business, Law and Social Sciences, and one joint
 appointment between LNS and the College of Health and Social Care (CHSC).

 During the REF census period, psychology researchers were members of the Human Sciences
 Research Centre (HSRC), which conducts ‘theoretical and applied research into the prevention
 and treatment of diseases and into improvements to the quality of life for people of all ages.’ Key
 themes of the HSRC were ‘a healthy start in life,’ ‘enhancing mental health and wellbeing,’ and
 ‘combatting disease and promoting physical health.’ The HSRC promoted interdisciplinary
 research by bringing Psychology researchers together with researchers in Bioscience, Sports
 Science and Forensic Science. Some researchers in the Unit were also members of the Nature
 Connectedness Research Group (NCRG) and the Maths Anxiety Research Group (MARG).

 1.2 Research and impact strategy
 In the REF2014 UoA4 feedback, “all aspects of the research environment were judged to be
 conducive to producing research of internationally recognised or nationally recognised quality.”
 The sub-panel “welcomed the increase in PhD students and the improvements in laboratory
 facilities since RAE 2008,” and judged that “further development of strategies to enhance grant
 capture and develop international collaborations will enhance the research environment moving
 forwards.”

 The Unit implemented a Research Strategy for 2014-2020 that was aligned with the University
 Research Strategy. The objectives of the Strategy and indicators of its success are summarised
 in Table 1 below.

 Table 1: Summary of Unit research strategy 2014-2020 and indicators of success
  Objectives 2014-2020     Indicators of success
  a) Achieve an improved Increases in all REF metrics from REF2014 to REF2021 and
  REF submission           increased engagement with University research infrastructure.
  b) Increase research     145% increase in research students (from 20 in 2008-2013 to 29 in
  student numbers and      2014-2020) and 425% increase in PGR completions (from 4 in 2008-
  success rates            2013 to 17 in 2014-2020).
  c) Support more staff to 213% increase in FTEs returned (from 14.4 in REF2014 to 30.7 in
  engage with research     REF2021).
  d) Increase research     372% increase in research income (from £189,775 in REF 2014 to
  income                   £706,000 in REF 2021).

 A key strategic development early in the REF census period was the replacement of the Centre
 for Psychological Research with the Human Sciences Research Centre (HSRC). The rationale for
 this was to promote greater multidisciplinary teamwork in order to achieve higher quality and more
 impactful research outputs and more successful research grant applications. The HSRC managed
 a University REF investment budget (see Section 1.3) and processed staff applications for internal
 funding for short sabbaticals and other support for research, including publication fees for high
 quality journal articles, and employed a Bid Support Officer who worked closely with Psychology
 researchers to prepare external research funding applications. Associate Professor Lipka
 organised fortnightly HSRC seminars to which all academic staff and Postgraduate Research
 (PGR) students were invited to give presentations and there were occasional external speakers



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 nominated for invitation by academic staff and postgraduate researchers in the HSRC. The HSRC
 also published a quarterly newsletter.

 The HSRC enabled Psychology researchers to collaborate more effectively with researchers in
 the College of Health and Social Care (CHSC) and UoA3. The close links between Colleges and
 between UoAs is illustrated by the fact that in REF2021 eight health psychology researchers were
 returned in UoA3 (Professors Elander and Mitchell; Baird, Cross, Garip, Holland, Montague
 and Williams); four forensic psychology researchers were returned in UoA20 (Bergstrom, Best,
 Bull and Page); one educational psychology researcher was returned in UoA23 (Petronzi); and
 one ergonomic psychology researcher was returned in UoA32 (Sims). Psychology researchers
 returned in UoA4 also contributed to the UoA3 impact case studies on management of painful
 chronic conditions (Professor Gilbert and Associate Professors Maratos and Van Gordon)
 and academic integrity and critical thinking (Associate Professors Hunt, Maratos and Stupple).

 Compassion-related research was a key focus of the Unit research strategy and both LNS and
 CHSC supported the University’s partnership with the Compassionate Mind Foundation, an
 international charity. Professor Gilbert’s 0.3FTE University post was jointly funded by LNS and
 CHSC. Compassion-related research is a major strength of the University and the development
 and expansion of compassion-related research is both a significant achievement for the Unit and
 evidence of successful collaboration between LNS and CHSC.

 1.3 Strategic investment
 Since 2014 the College of Life and Natural Sciences (LNS) and University of Derby Online
 Learning (UDOL) received a University REF investment budget worth approximately £1.9M. This
 budget, managed by HSRC, funded a Research Chair in Nature Connectedness (Professor
 Richardson); post-doctoral researchers in nature connectedness and compassion-based
 interventions; PhD studentships in pro-conservation behaviours and intergenerational physical
 activity; a Research Impact Officer post; short sabbaticals for Unit researchers including Howard,
 Hunt, Kotera, Lipka, Stupple and Van Gordon; selected open access publication costs for
 Gilbert, Maratos, Richardson, Sheffield and Stupple; as well as seed-funding, consumables,
 travel, dissemination and other support for research in the Unit. This included, for example, support
 for projects on good things in nature in Brazil, UK and Japan (Vione), critical thinking skills
 (Simonovic), contemplative psychology (Van Gordon) and psychopathy (Fido).

 1.4 Growth since 2014
 Table 2 below shows how the growth of the Unit across all REF metrics between 2014 and 2020.
 There was also significant investment in research laboratories and equipment, including
 successful Capital Bids related to research facilities and equipment (see Section 3.3).

 Table 2: Summary of UoA4 REF progress 2014-2020
                  Staff  Outputs   Impact Case Research                  PGR
                  FTEs             Studies       income                  completions
  UoA4 REF2014 14.4      53        2             £189,775                4
  Submission
  UoA4 REF2021 30.7      77        3             £706,000                17
  Submission

 1.5 Achievements since 2014
 1.5.1 Compassion-focused research
 A first major achievement for the Unit was the further development and extension of compassion-
 focused research led by Professor Gilbert. The Unit collaborated with the Compassionate Mind
 Foundation between 2014 and 2020 to create a global network of researchers that promote
 compassion-based research and practices, further enabled by 10 affiliated organisations around
 the world. A significant development was the extension of the compassion-based approach from
 clinical and healthcare applications to wider educational, social and political issues, including the
 development and evaluation of compassion-based interventions designed specifically for schools


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 [output 779505-4]. The Three Circles model has been used throughout Europe by organisations
 to improve productivity and retention in workplaces and it contributed to a successful CPD
 programme for educators (see also REF3, 4-1 on compassion-based interventions).

 Some of the highlights of the compassion research include functional Magnetic Resonance
 Imaging (fMRI) studies of neurophysiological and behavioural markers of compassion [e.g., output
 782891-3], as well as studies of the expression and communication of compassion [outputs
 779505-3 and 782891-4]. The Unit developed and validated stimulus sets for experimental
 research on compassion [output 771856-2] as well as self-report measures [e.g., outputs 782891-
 1 and 782234-2], enabling researchers around the world to study compassion-related processes
 and evaluate compassion-based interventions. The Unit’s research includes development and
 evaluation of compassion-based interventions adapted for specific populations, including people
 with fibromyalgia [outputs 785707-2 and 785707-4], people in weight management programmes
 [output 782234-1] and compassion-based interventions using virtual reality technology for people
 with depression [output 782891-2].

 1.5.2 Nature connectedness research
 A second major achievement was the international leadership by Professor Richardson of
 research on nature connectedness, which in 2018 was named by Universities UK (UUK) as one
 of the UK’s 100 best breakthroughs for its impact. The researchers established a multidisciplinary
 Nature Connectedness Research Group (NCRG) which has contributed research income to this
 UoA during the census period. NCRG research informed the redesign of the public engagement
 activities of national and international nature and conservation organisations to improve public
 wellbeing and promote pro-conservation behaviours. It was also used in the development of the
 Mental Health Charter by Student Minds and UUK, prompting the scheme to choose the University
 of Derby as the first university to pilot the charter. From 2014-2020, NCRG research findings
 influenced public policies and population measures in the UK and New Zealand and were adopted
 by the United Nations to improve people’s connection with nature. Ongoing nature connectedness
 projects with regional and national charities and non-governmental organisations led by Harvey
 and others enable those organisations to demonstrate the value they provide to local communities,
 many of which are in socioeconomically deprived areas, and they enable the Unit’s research to
 impact human wellbeing and the conservation of natural environments in the real world.

 The NCRG’s research included developing and validating measures of nature connectedness
 [output 770910-1] and pro-nature conservation behaviours [output 770910-5] as well as assessing
 the impact of nature connectedness on health, wellbeing and pro-environmental behaviours
 [outputs 770910-2 and 770910-3]. The Group also evaluated different nature-based interventions
 to improve wellbeing, including combining natural environments with mindfulness-based stress
 reduction [output 781372-2], simulated natural environments [output 781372-4], and smartphone
 apps to help people connect with urban nature [output 770910-4]. The NCRG developed the
 Pathways to Nature Connectedness, a behaviour change framework that focuses on experiencing
 rather than mastering nature [output 785039-1]. This Framework was recognised by the United
 Nations and influenced the development of the United Nation’s post-2020 Biodiversity Framework.
 The National Trust, Wildlife Trust, European Forest Therapy Institute and the New Zealand
 Government Department of Conservation have all made improvements to their policy and practice
 by adopting the framework. Externally funded projects evaluated interventions to improve nature
 connectedness and the NCRG advises national bodies about policies and measures to promote
 greater connections to nature for their visitors (see also REF3, 4-2 on improving people’s
 connection with nature).

 1.5.3 Maths anxiety research
 A third major achievement was the development of maths anxiety research led by Associate
 Professor Hunt and others in the interdisciplinary Maths Anxiety Research Group (MARG), which
 provides internationally recognised research to inform national initiatives for preventing and
 reducing maths anxiety. The Research changed the practices and policies of Pearson Education,
 National Numeracy, Health Education England and the British Dyslexia Association and led to
 work with local, national and international educators to improve maths attainment by identifying

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and reducing maths anxiety. A collaboration with the School of Computing and Engineering led to
 the incorporation of maths anxiety scales and strategies into the software packages of Vretta Inc.,
 resulting in a formal partnership that allowed the University to become Vretta’s first academic hub
 in the UK to support success in mathematics. The University also established its own Maths Hub
 to support UG and PG students across disciplines to engage positively with mathematics (see also
 REF3, 4-3 on understanding and reducing maths anxiety).

 The Research produced insights into the neurophysiological basis of maths anxiety [output
 780122-1] and the physiological basis of the stressful nature of arithmetic performance for children
 with maths anxiety [output 779929-5], as well as research on factors that influence mathematics
 ability [outputs 779929-1 and 779929-4]. The research also included studies using eye-tracking
 [output 779929-3] and measures of physiological reactivity [output 779929-5] to examine the
 mechanics of arithmetic performance, and studies of ways that maths anxiety leads to specific
 patterns of error [output 779929-2]. The MARG also produced self-report tools to measure maths
 anxiety, including the first for young children [output 779548-2], which have enabled schools and
 educational specialists nationally and internationally to measure maths anxiety, identify those in
 need of support, and implement strategies to reduce maths anxiety and increase maths attainment
 whilst also improving well-being and increasing access to maths education.

 1.6 Research methods strengths
 One of the strengths of the Unit is expertise in psychometrics and the development of scales. In
 addition to scales related to compassion, nature connectedness and maths anxiety that are
 mentioned above, researchers in the Unit have also employed best psychometric practice to
 develop scales measuring a wide range of constructs including authorial identity [output 776825-
 1], critical thinking [output 779505-2], cyber victimisation [output 785240-2], flourishing [output
 785505-2], motivation to change lifestyle for dementia risk reduction [output 776825-5], pain
 medication attitudes [output 782694-3], parental confidence in managing food allergy [output
 781114-1], quality of life of carers for people with Huntington’s disease [output 782694-1],
 relationship continuity in acquired brain injury [output 786767-1], and satisfaction with treatment
 for pain [output 782694-4].

 A second strength of the Unit is developing and evaluating psychological interventions. In addition
 to compassion and nature connectedness interventions mentioned already, researchers in the
 Unit have developed and evaluated interventions including mindfulness training for sleep problems
 among people with fibromyalgia [output 785707-3], meditation awareness training for the
 treatment of workaholism [output 785707-1], and hand massage and therapeutic imagery for
 people with high self-criticism [outputs 781114-2 and 781114-3]. The evaluations also include
 randomised-controlled trials, for example of meditation awareness training for the treatment of
 fibromyalgia [e.g., output 785707-5].

 A third strength of the Unit is research on physiological and psychophysiological mechanisms,
 with measures including functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI), electroencephalography
 (EEG), eye tracking, cardiovascular stress responses and autonomic arousal (alpha amylase).
 Researchers in the Unit have used these techniques to study a range of issues in addition to the
 studies of compassion, nature connectedness and maths anxiety mentioned already. These
 include challenge and threat responses [output 781372-1], diabetic polyneuropathy [output
 786105-1], emotion processing [output 784737-1], judgement and decision making [outputs
 776825-4 and 783597-1], problem solving [output 776825-3], reasoning [output 776825-2],
 spatiotemporal regularity in visual perception [output 300725-2], and violence inhibition
 mechanisms [output 786105-3].

 A fourth strength is research on cognitive processes, which unit researchers have conducted to
 examine attentional processes in emotion processing [outputs 771856-1 and 779505-1] and
 children’s food neophobia [output 779548-1], language processing [outputs 783951-1 and
 300725-3], cognitive factors in hearing and listening [output 300725-4] and working memory in
 language processing [output 300725-1]. There is also a special focus on beliefs and the factors
 that influence beliefs, with an emerging Belief: Identity, Cognition, Experience and Personality

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (B:ICEP) Research Group including Baker, Harvey, Howard, Schofield and Stupple. This group
 secured external funding for two projects on factors that influence supernatural belief and one on
 differences between linguistic and non-linguistic mentation (see also Section 3.1.4).

 A fifth strength is applied qualitative research using thematic analysis, discourse analysis,
 conversation analysis and interpretative phenomenological analysis including investigations of
 young people’s engagement with disused space [782496-1], the teaching of art in primary schools
 [output 780937-1], parenting in the age of sexualisation [output 781841-1], illness perceptions
 [output 787205-1], and police interviewing of child witnesses [output 782086-1]. Together with
 other qualitative research conducted in the Unit and research by psychology researchers returned
 in UoA3 (Holland, Montague and Williams), the Unit is well known for providing qualitative
 training for academics and students internationally and the Qualitative Psychology team run
 multiple training sessions on a range of qualitative methods in psychology and specific techniques
 each year (see also Section 2.4).

 1.7 Research governance
 All research in the Unit undergoes research ethics review. Associate Professors Maratos (2014-
 17) and Stupple (2017-2020) chaired the College of Life and Natural Sciences Research Ethics
 Committee (Barnes and Associate Professor Hunt were deputy chairs), which provided ethical
 scrutiny and approval for research conducted in the Unit as well as providing training and
 development in research ethics for researchers in the Unit. Stupple also represents the Unit on
 the University Research Ethics Committee and ensures that Unit researchers are kept informed
 about University ethics processes and that new University processes take account of the needs
 of researchers in the Unit as well as the requirements of relevant professional bodies including the
 British Psychological Society (BPS) and the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).

 Kotera, Lipka, Sheffield, Stupple and Van Gordon all played key roles in the University’s
 introduction of Ethics Monitor, an online research ethics application system for all staff and student
 researchers including UG, PGT and PGR students. The Unit researchers contributed to this
 element of University research infrastructure as active members of a Research Ethics Digitisation
 Board, which was established by the University Professorial Council to oversee the development
 and introduction of Ethics Monitor, which became operational in September 2019.

 The Unit is compliant with the Concordat on Open Research and all Unit researchers follow the
 University policy of enabling ‘Green’ Open Access and self-archiving published outputs in the
 UDORA repository. The Unit also supports the University commitment to responsible use of
 metrics and is represented on the Bibliometrics Working Group. The Unit’s Responsible Metrics
 Champion, Pitrolino (HSRC Research Impact Officer) supports the implementation of the
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity.

 Several researchers including Hunt, Richardson and Van Gordon publish research blogs to
 encourage wider public involvement and engagement, for example on Maths Anxiety in Young
 Children, What is Maths Anxiety?, Finding Nature, and a regular Contemplative Psychology blog
 in Psychology Today.

 1.8 Future research and impact strategy
 The Unit’s Research Strategy 2020-2026 is aligned with the University’s Innovation and Research
 Strategic Priorities (2020–2026) (REF5a, 2.3). The strategic priorities are to:

 1. Invest in talent by recruiting staff and research students who can contribute to the research of
    the Unit;
 2. Grow innovation by developing specialised interdisciplinary research groups to address major
    external challenges and work with external partners to apply our research and translate
    research into demonstrable impact;
 3. Achieve greater regional, national and international impact by strengthening and expanding
    key strategic external partnerships in research, including between the Unit and NHS hospital
    trusts;

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Empower our graduates by supporting improved achievement and success by graduates of
    Masters and Doctoral research programmes in terms of publication and dissemination of
    research, and career progression and achievement of Masters and Doctoral graduates.

 The Unit’s Research Strategy 2020-2026 is supported by the establishment in September 2020 of
 a new School of Psychology. This brings Psychology researchers who were previously in different
 Schools and Departments together into an integrated School of Psychology in an expanded
 College of Health, Psychology and Social Care (CHPSC). This will enhance the Unit’s research
 capacity and impact by providing:

 •   Better communication between Psychology researchers;
 •   A stronger collective Psychology research identity;
 •   A clearer external profile for Psychology research;
 •   More consistent policies and practices for supporting Psychology researchers;
 •   Closer interdisciplinary integration in key areas of research strength between Psychology and
     Allied Health disciplines.

 The Unit’s Research Strategy 2020-2026 will be delivered through new structures and groupings
 that recognise emerging areas of Psychology research strength, including beliefs, weight stigma
 and eating behaviours, forensic psychology and community psychology. The Unit will continue to
 develop interdisciplinary research with the Human Sciences Research Centre (HSRC), especially
 in areas of shared strength including clinical research, forensic science research, and sport and
 exercise research. The Unit Strategy also aligns closely with the CHPSC draft Research Strategy
 2021-2030, which identifies three research themes: Health and Wellbeing; Understanding People
 and Planet; and Education and Professionals, with six Research Groups associated with each
 theme. Psychology researchers in the Unit will each belong to one or more of those Research
 Groups (RGs).

 The Health and Wellbeing theme includes an Arts and Health RG; a Child and Family Health and
 Wellbeing RG; a Compassion-focussed Therapy and Compassionate Mind Training RG; a
 Contemplative Psychology and Mindfulness RG; a Weight Stigma and Eating Behaviour RG; and
 a Health and Wellbeing RG. These Research Groups will provide supportive communities for
 Psychology researchers who are not members of the Unit’s presently existing Research Groups,
 such as the researchers conducting research on rank perception and self-evaluation in eating
 disorders [output 782891-5], models of change among people with chronic pain [output 782694-
 2], mental health among UK hospitality workers [output 783564-1] and Japanese workers [output
 783564-2], patient experiences in primary care [output 779505-5], and public health compliance
 in the COVID-19 pandemic [output 786105-2]. These and other Psychology researchers will
 benefit from membership of the new interdisciplinary Research Groups that bring Psychology
 researchers together with other researchers in the CHPSC and the HSRC, including those
 returned in UoA3.

 The Understanding People and Planet theme includes the existing Nature Connectedness RG
 (NCRG); a Community Engagement RG; a Qualitative Methods RG; a Cognitive Psychology RG;
 a Belief: Identity, Cognition, Experience and Personality (B:ICEP) RG; and a Forensic Psychology
 RG. The new research groups will provide supportive communities for Psychology researchers
 who are not members of the Unit’s presently existing Research Groups, such as researchers
 conducting research on behavioural modelling approaches [output 785436-1], value change over
 the life span [output 785505-1], and narcissistic personality [outputs 300565-1 and 781649-1], as
 well as Forensic Psychologists in the Unit whose research includes cyber bullying [output 785240-
 1] and predictors of offending behaviour [output 785240-3].

 The Education and Professionals theme includes the existing Maths Anxiety RG (MARG); a
 Compassion in Education RG, a Health and Social Care Education RG, a Nursing and
 Professional Practice RG; a Health and Social Care Workforce RG, and a Sports Psychology RG.
 The Sports Psychology RG will provide a supportive new interdisciplinary community for Sport

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Psychology researchers in the Unit whose research includes sports performance during pain
 [outputs 781372-3 and 781372-5] and predictors of ‘yips’ and ‘choking’ in sport [output 782093-1].
 The Sports Psychology RG will also promote closer collaboration between Sport Psychology
 researchers in the Unit and other Sport and Exercise researchers in the HSRC.

 2. People

 2.1 Staff recruitment and significant responsibility for research (SRR)
 Consistent with the University strategy, the staff recruitment strategy of the College of Life and
 Natural Sciences (LNS) and University of Derby Online (UDOL) prioritised research and the fit
 between applicants’ research and the strategic aims of the Unit and the Human Sciences
 Research Centre in shortlisting and final selection for academic posts in Psychology. The Unit
 policy for staff support includes assigning a research mentor to every newly appointed member of
 academic staff.

 Significant responsibility for research (SRR) was determined by following the University Code of
 Practice. For each member of staff, the UoA lead made a recommendation to the PVC Dean based
 on individual discussion with the person concerned and consultation with their line manager, taking
 account of past and planned workload, expected work roles and responsibilities, and objectives
 recorded in the University appraisal system.

 2.2 Visiting professors and research fellows
 The Unit also benefited from appointments of Visiting Professors and Research Fellows who work
 with Unit researchers on grant applications and journal articles, act as expert consultants in areas
 of specialist expertise, give talks, mentor early carer researchers and support PGR achievement.
 During the census period the Unit appointed three Visiting Professors (James Stubbs, appointed
 March 2014; Abigail Locke, appointed 2016; and Eduardo Massad, appointed March 2017) and
 six Visiting Research Fellows (Mark Nesti, appointed December 2014; Stephanie Archer and
 Claire Williams, both appointed July 2015; Chris Irons, appointed March 2016; Chris Blackmore,
 appointed July 2017; and Eleanor Phillips, appointed March 2018). These Visiting Professors and
 Research Fellows were all working in priority areas of research for the Unit and increased the
 Unit’s opportunities for support and collaboration with external experts.

 Several visiting professors and fellows were appointed because of their positions in industry which
 supported strategic collaborations, for example James Stubbs’s appointment cemented the
 University’s strategic partnership with Slimming World, a commercial weight loss organisation, and
 Claire William’s appointment strengthened collaborations with health and safety organisations to
 support the Unit’s behaviour change research. Eduardo Massad (University of Sao Paulo, Brazil)
 was appointed to strengthen the Unit’s international links in behavioural health, and others were
 appointed to strengthen specific areas of the Unit’s research, e.g., qualitative research (Abigail
 Locke and Eleanor Phillips), compassion-focused therapy (Chris Irons) and health psychology
 (Stephanie Archer).

 2.3 Support for early career researchers
 The Unit includes ten early career researchers (ECRs) (Clarke, Vione, Fido, Fillingeri, Kotera,
 Schofield, Simonovic, Stalker, Taylor and Yasmin) who make up 31% (10/32) of the
 researchers with SRR in UoA4. ECRs have been supported in multiple ways, including
 membership of the University’s ECR Forum (Clarke, Vione, Fido, Schofield, Simonovic and
 Taylor) and UPC (Kotera was an ECR representative on UPC since its launch until September
 2020).

 ECRs in the Unit are supported through the University’s ECR mentoring scheme, which provides
 mentors in other disciplines to support interdisciplinary perspectives in research. For example,
 Kotera was mentored by Holloway in the College of Arts, Humanities and Education.

 The Unit also operates an informal research mentoring scheme within the discipline that includes
 ECRs but is not restricted to them. For example, Schofield is mentored by Baker, Sharpe is

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mentored by Associate Professor Maratos, and Clark is mentored by Akehurst and Professor
 Sheffield.

 ECRs in the Unit were also supported by the ECR Forum’s ECR Support Fund. For example,
 Vione received funding in 2018 and 2019 for projects on emotional factors in romantic
 relationships and the roles of emotion and cognition in pathways to nature connectedness, and
 Fido received funding in 2018 and 2019 for projects on nature connectedness, personality and
 emotion regulation.

 2.4 Staff development and progression
 Researchers in the Unit benefitted from the University Internal Conferment process. Since 2014,
 one researcher in the Unit progressed to Professor (Richardson) and five progressed to
 Associate Professor (Hunt, Lipka, Maratos, Stupple and Van Gordon), demonstrating how the
 reputation and research strength of the Unit has developed. The Associate Professors benefitted
 from the University’s Associate Professor Mentoring Scheme, which provides experienced
 Professors from other disciplines as mentors to new Associate Professors and staff applying to
 progress to Associate Professor. For example, new Associate Professor Stupple was mentored
 by Professor Stewart (UoA12), and Lipka mentored Hill (UoA12) and Holmwood (UoA3) in
 successful applications for progression to Associate Professor.

 Researchers in the Unit also participated in the University’s Researcher Development Programme
 (REF5a, 3.4.4), including workshops in academic writing, grant application writing and presenting
 research to non-academic audiences, as well as the monthly Research Cafés (presenters included
 Associate Professor Maratos and Schofield) and annual University Research and Knowledge
 Exchange Conferences. Unit researchers are also active contributors to other parts of the
 University research environment, including research skills training for new PhD students
 (Associate Professor Lipka, Professor Sheffield and others), peer review of external research
 grant applications (Lipka, Sheffield and others), and multiple staff training programmes on a
 range of qualitative methods, including courses offered to staff across the University which run
 yearly and attract post-graduate and senior researchers both internal and external to the University
 of Derby (Childs, Hallam, Howard, plus Holland and Montague (UoA3)).

 Several Unit staff play key roles in University and College processes that support staff
 development. Associate Professor Lipka represents the Unit (and the College) on UPC raising
 topics or questions suggested by Unit staff at UPC meetings and feeding back information about
 UPC activities to members of the Unit and managers to ensure that researchers in the Unit benefit
 optimally from the operation of the UPC.

 Supported by the University Research and Knowledge Exchange Office (URKEO), Associate
 Professor Lipka leads and organises a University programme of training for academic staff in
 PGR Supervision, which contributes significantly to the University PGR environment but also
 supports researcher development in the Unit. Childs, Hallam, Harvey, Hunt, Kotera, Spenser,
 Van Gordon, Vione and Yasmin have all undertaken this training, which increased the Unit’s
 PGR supervisory capacity and helped to improve the progression and achievement of PGR
 students in the Unit.

 Unit researchers also make leading contributions to University-wide staff development and
 dissemination events that enable wider participation in research across the University. For
 example, Associate Professor Maratos presented at the University Health and Wellbeing
 Research Week in October 2019. Professor Richardson presented a Headline Lecture and
 Lipka presented a workshop at the University Global Challenges Research Weeks during 2019-
 20. Richardson and Harvey organised the University’s annual Nature Connections conferences
 in March 2015, June 2016, June 2017, June 2018 and July 2019. The Nature Connections
 Festival in September 2015 was organised by the Colleges of Art and Design and Health and
 Social Care with Richardson and Harvey. Childs and colleagues organised the University
 Applied Qualitative Research conference in July 2015 and July 2016. These sessions also ran in
 2018 and 2019 as part of the qualitative summer school organised by Holland (UoA3) and others.

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Maratos organised, hosted and presented at the University’s Compassion in Schools for
 Educators day in November 2019, with workshops and keynotes for teachers and other key
 stakeholders.

 2.5 PGR support
 The Unit has a very strong, integrated research student culture, with staff and PGR students
 comprising a single cohesive community. PGR students occupy a large spacious office that was
 refurbished in 2018 with dedicated computing and telephone facilities, located very close to the
 Unit staff offices in the same building (the ‘College Home’). The community of PGR students in
 the Unit has grown during the census period, from 20 in 2014 to 29 in 2020. Two PhD students in
 the Unit were supported by University Graduate Teaching Assistant (GTA) studentships.

 The Unit advertises areas of research where expert supervision can be provided, with the result
 that research areas of PGR students in the Unit are closely aligned with those of key researchers
 in the Unit and with the Unit’s areas of greatest research strength and impact. For example, there
 are six students undertaking PhDs on different aspects of compassion-based interventions, three
 on nature connectedness, three on behaviour change, three on wellbeing and mental health, three
 on chronic pain management and two on maths anxiety, as well as a range of other applied
 psychological investigations.

 The College of Life and Natural Sciences (LNS) provides a College-level PGR student induction
 led by Lipka, in addition to the University induction. All PGR students in the Unit were also
 members of the Human Sciences Research Centre (HSRC) and joined in HSRC events including
 a regular research seminar programme (see above). PGR students are also represented on
 College and University Research Committees. PGR student progress is monitored by the College
 Research Committee via annual Progress Reports and half-yearly Progress Review meetings.

 Staff researchers in the Unit include several very experienced PhD supervisors and examiners,
 who act in external PhD supervision and examination roles at other institutions (Howard, Maratos,
 Sheffield, Stupple, Van Gordon) as well as acting as internal PhD examiners, viva chairs and
 assessors for Confirmation of Registration events (Childs, Hunt, Lipka, Maratos, Sheffield and
 others).

 PGR students in the Unit participated in the College and University 3MT competitions, an
 international event in which the University has participated since 2017. In 2017 a Health
 Psychology PhD student in the Unit came second in the University competition and went through
 to the regional final. In 2019 a Sport Psychology PhD student in the Unit won the College
 competition. PGR students in the Unit also received University funding to present their work at
 national and international conferences including the East Midlands Doctoral Network conferences.

 Levels of PGR satisfaction expressed in PRES surveys are high in the College of Life and Natural
 Sciences (LNS), where most PGR students in the Unit were enrolled. For 2018-2020, the LNS
 average satisfaction ratings were above the Institutional average for all but one of the areas of
 satisfaction covered by the surveys. For three of those areas (Resources, Progression and
 Responsibilities), the LNS average was also above the PRES national average (See Table 3
 below).

 Table 3: Average PGR PRES satisfaction ratings
  Area of satisfaction     PRES National Institution              LNS Average
                           Average          Average
  Student satisfaction     86.3%            82.3%                 84.0%
  Resources                79.7%            73.7%                 81.0%
  Progression              79.3%            78.7%                 89.0%
  Responsibilities         78.3%            73.3%                 82.0%
  Research Skills          86.0%            82.3%                 81.0%
  Professional development 79.3%            75.3%                 76.0%


                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Unit also has an excellent record of PGR achievement, progression and completion, with 17
 PGR completions since REF 2014 and many indicators of PhD student achievement in terms of
 publications and awards that illustrate successful close relationships between PGR students and
 supervisors. The graduate destinations of PhD graduates in the Unit include six lectureships at
 the University of Derby, four lectureships at other UK universities, one scientific officer post at
 Cambridge Assessment and one post-doctoral research fellow post at the University of
 Cambridge.

 2.6 Equality and Diversity
 Table 4 below shows that the Unit was representative of the Institution in proportions of staff in
 Protected Categories, both in terms of eligible Category A staff and those with Significant
 Responsibility for Research (SRR). The Category A staff with SRR who are returned in UoA4
 include 15/32 (47%) females, and the ages of researchers span the range 25-34 to 55-64, and
 none were on fixed term contracts. Consistent with University policy, managers in the Unit have
 committed to developing a high performing and inclusive culture aligned with the ten core
 principles of Athena SWAN, and have committed to raising awareness of gender equality and
 celebrating women’s achievements in research. Part of the Strategy of the new School of
 Psychology (see earlier) will be to reduce the numbers of staff on fixed term contracts and increase
 support for researchers with disabilities and researchers in BAME groups. Equality and diversity
 considerations, including support for Protected Characteristics, are considered by managers in
 the Unit as well as managers in LNS and the URKEO when providing support for research grant
 applications, conference attendance, research leave and allocations from REF investment
 budgets.

 Table 4: Proportions of Category A staff and those with SRR in UoA4 and the Institution by
 Protected Characteristics
                         UoA 4                       Institution
                         Cat. A staff Staff with SRR Cat. A staff Staff with SRR
  Disability
  Disabled               2%           0%             6%           <5%
  None known             98%          100%           94%          97%
  Gender
  Female                 55%          47%            50%          42%
  Male                   45%          53%            50%          58%
  Contract type
  Permanent              85%          100%           94%          93%
  Fixed term             15%          0%             6%           7%
  Ethnicity
  Arabic                 0%           0%             <5%          <5%
  Asian                  5%           6%             7%           10%
  Black                  <5%          0%             <5%          <5%
  Chinese                <5%          <5%            <5%          5%
  Other/mixed            <5%          6%             <5%          <5%
  Did not say            <5%          <5%            <5%          <5%
  White                  88%          81%            82%          75%
  Age group
  Under 25               <5%          0%             <5%          0%
  25-34                  23%          28%            13%          17%
  35-44                  35%          41%            28%          35%
  45-54                  25%          22%            33%          29%
  55-64                  14%          6%             22%          17%
  65 and over            <5%          <5%            <5%          <5%

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 External research income
 The Bid Support Officer supported Unit researchers with preparing external funding applications,
 which were also evaluated through a peer review process coordinated by the URKEO. The
 University recorded £706,000 external research income for UoA4 during the census period, which
 includes funding for research on health and wellbeing, compassion-based interventions, nature
 connections and beliefs about the supernatural. Many of the externally funded projects involved
 Unit researchers as part of major collaborative projects where the main budget was held by partner
 institutions including Barts and the Royal London Hospital Trust, the Compassionate Mind
 Foundation, and the University of Sheffield.

 The Unit also secured external funding for the University’s first externally funded research chair,
 the Miles-Bramwell Chair in Behaviour Change and Weight Management, funded by Slimming
 World and awarded to James Stubbs in July 2014.

 3.1.1 External income for health and wellbeing research
 The externally funded health and wellbeing research included projects on the impact of food
 allergies among children (Barnes and Stalker, output 781114-1); improving musculoskeletal
 health by promoting break-taking in the workplace (Sheffield with Baird, UoA3); weight loss
 maintenance (Stalker with others, output 782234-2); improving the management of painful crises
 in sickle cell disease (Schofield with Elander, UoA3), output 782694-4); and mental health and
 support needs of female veterans (Spenser).

 For two of these projects, the income to the University represented the Unit’s share of a larger
 collaborative project. In one case, the returned income for research on weight loss maintenance
 was the Unit’s part of a €5M EU Horizon 2020 Research and Innovation Framework-funded, 5-
 country, 12-partner organisation programme to develop evidence-based ICT tools for weight loss
 maintenance (the ‘NoHow’ project). In the other, the returned income for research on improving
 the management of painful crises in sickle cell disease was the Unit’s part of a £245,744 Barts
 and the London Charity Strategic Research Grant for the Sickle Cell Analgesia Protocol Evaluation
 (SCAPE) project, led by a Consultant Haematologist at the Royal London Hospital, London.

 Unit researchers were also part of externally funded research projects where the income was
 returned in other UoAs. These included a £34,492 British Renal Society/Kidney Care UK-funded
 project on acceptance and commitment therapy for patients receiving renal dialysis (Stalker with
 Elander, UoA3).

 3.1.2 External income for compassion-related research
 The externally funded research on compassion-based interventions included a project applying
 compassion-focused therapy to weight loss maintenance (Gilbert and Stalker, output 782234-1);
 and another applying a compassion-based intervention to school staff wellbeing (Gilbert and
 Maratos; output 779505-4). In this project, the income to the University represented the Unit’s part
 of a £106,920 REED Foundation funded project conducted in collaboration with international
 partners and the Compassionate Mind Foundation.

 3.1.3 External income for nature connectedness research
 The externally funded nature connectedness research included the Unit’s contribution to a £1.3M
 NERC-funded collaborative project with the University of Sheffield on Improving Wellbeing through
 Urban Nature (IWUN) to develop and evaluate a nature connectedness-based green prescription
 app based on noticing good things in urban nature (Richardson, Sheffield, output 770910-4). It
 also included funding from the City of London and the National Trust for applied projects led by
 Richardson that extended the impact of nature connectedness research and consolidated
 strategic relationships with significant stakeholders, and funding for evaluations conducted by
 Harvey for Wildlife Trusts that were the Unit’s part of a £1M+ Heritage Lottery funded project



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supporting the development a new visitor centre and additional activities for local communities in
 Suffolk and the surrounding area.

 3.1.4 External income for research on beliefs
 The Unit’s externally funded research also included BIAL Foundation grants for three projects on
 different aspects of belief conducted by members of the emerging research group on Beliefs:
 Identity, Cognition, Experience and Personality (B:ICEP). The projects focus on cognitive and
 personality differences in supernatural belief; meta-representations of supernatural belief and the
 effect of context on physiological responses and cognition; and linguistic vs non-linguistic
 mentation (Baker, Harvey, Howard, Schofield and Stupple).

 3.2 Internal research funding
 The Unit benefitted from several internal University research funding schemes, including the
 Undergraduate Research Scholarship Scheme (URSS) for which staff researchers bid for £2,000
 scholarships to be awarded to undergraduate students for research projects supervised by staff
 researchers. Researchers in the Unit won 45 URSS scholarships in the five years since the
 scheme was introduced, representing a £90,000 University investment, and in 2018-19, Unit
 researchers won 40% of the total scholarships awarded. The Unit used URSS scholarships to
 support developing areas of psychological research and growth of PGR numbers, for many of the
 students involved went on to postgraduate research.

 Examples of URSS research supervised by researchers in the Unit include projects on eating
 disorders, food neophobia, attentional biases, emotion processing, childhood trauma and
 paranormal belief (Sharpe); critical thinking skills in HE (Simonovic); affect and need for cognition
 in pathways to nature connectedness (Vione); nature connectedness, critical thinking in online
 students, athletic and business success, digital risk, and image-based sexual abuse (Fido); face
 recognition and reading (Lipka and Maratos); dyslexia and reading (Lipka); anxiety and emotion
 processing, visual working memory, compassion-focussed imagery and regulation of threat
 responses (Maratos). There were also URSS projects on mindfulness and compassion-based
 interventions for biased thinking (Stupple, Maratos and Sheffield); “dark” personality traits, belief
 in the supernatural, and beliefs about science and existential anxiety (Baker, Harvey, and
 Schofield); and compassionate parenting for children with autism (Kotera and Fido).

 Other internal University research funding schemes that Unit researchers used to support
 developing research in the Unit included the On-Campus Internship Scheme (OCIS), the Vice
 Chancellor’s Ideas Forum, the University GCRF Pump Priming Fund and the University Strategic
 Priorities Fund. Unit researchers have an excellent record of using internal funding to support
 emerging areas of Unit research by creating opportunities for students to collaborate with staff
 researchers.

 3.3 Infrastructure and facilities
 There has been a significant consolidation of office space for Unit researchers and research
 students in the ‘College Home’ (see Section 2.5), and significant development of research
 laboratories and equipment since 2014.

 The laboratory facilities and equipment available to researchers in the Unit include a Cognitive
 Research Laboratory with experimental cubicles; a sound-attenuated Human Psychophysiology
 Laboratory with research grade, 64-channel cortical electrophysiology recording system and EEG-
 STIM hard and software, plus electrodermal and hemodynamic measurement equipment; a
 physical activity and physical function suite, with equipment for detailed behavioural studies and
 physiological measures; a Sport and Exercise science laboratories, including biochemistry labs;
 and an observation suite with one-way window for in-depth studies of behaviour and interaction.

 Other research tools and equipment available for Unit researchers include a test bank of copyright-
 cleared and licensed psychometric testing and assessment materials, administered by a team
 of qualified staff; electrodermal activity monitors, Accutracker ambulatory blood pressure
 monitors, and Finometer and Portapres continuous blood pressure monitors that can

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 assess haemodynamic changes and heart rate variability during daily life and in the laboratory; a
 Cold Pressor and Digitimer High Voltage Stimulator for pain studies; a research-grade 30Hz TOBII
 X2-30 eye-tracker with dedicated laptop for display-related research; a research-grade SMI eye-
 tracking system with dedicated laptop for general “real world” eye-tracking studies; a research-
 grade 1KHz Eyelink eye-tracking system with dedicated laptop for display-related research as
 well; Qualtrics, a secure web-based survey tool that allows online collection of research data in an
 easily accessible interface; and Inquisit v5 Experimentation software for running precision online
 experiments from remote workstations, desktops and laptops.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations with external organisations
 Researchers in the Unit have multiple international collaborations with leading universities and
 institutions of higher education, including in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Czech
 Republic, Germany, France, Ireland, Iran, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Pakistan, Poland, Portugal,
 Romania, Rwanda, Serbia, South Africa, Sweden, Thailand, Turkey, Uganda and the USA.

 Unit researchers in health and wellbeing developed strategic collaborations with healthcare
 organisations that are partners or end-users of applications of Unit research. These include the
 CHU Montpellier Hospital, France; Miguel Servet Hospital, Spain; UK NHS hospital trusts; Orange
 Home Care Clinic, Japan; the Positive Birth Movement; Sephirah Centre for the Promotion of
 Psychological and Physical Wellbeing, Italy; Web Mindfulness, Spain (Hallam, Howard, Kotera,
 Sheffield, Stalker, Van Gordon; see REF3, 3-3 on painful chronic conditions).

 Unit researchers in nature connectedness and conservation developed similar strategic
 collaborations with partner and end-user organisations including Derbyshire Wildlife Trust, Durrell
 Wildlife Conservation Trust, Defra, Derby Museum, Feral Spaces, the Forest Therapy Institute,
 the National Trust, Natural England, the New Zealand Government Department of Conservation,
 the RSPB, Suffolk Wildlife Trust, the Wildlife Trusts, Urban Wilderness, and other national and
 international organisations involved in preservation of natural environment (Hallam, Harvey,
 Richardson, Lumber, Sheffield; see REF3, 4-2 on nature connectedness).

 Unit researchers in compassion developed strategic collaborations with partner and end-user
 organisations including the Compassionate Mind Foundation and many other national and
 international organisations involved in the development of compassion-based approaches.
 Organisations affiliated to the Compassionate Mind Foundation that were set up between 2014
 and 2020 include Compassionate Mind Australia, the Canadian Network for CFT, Compassionate
 Mind Ireland, Compassionate Mind Italia, and the International Centre for Compassionate
 Organisations USA (Gilbert, Maratos and others; see REF3, 4-1 on compassion-based
 interventions).

 Unit researchers in psychology applied to education developed strategic collaborations with
 partner and end-user organisations including the British Dyslexia Association, Derby Emotionally
 Healthy Schools Network, Derbyshire Educational Psychology Service, National Numeracy,
 Health Education England, Pearson Education, Vretta Inc. and schools in the UK, Portugal and
 Turkey (Hunt, Maratos, Sheffield, Staples, Van Gordon; see REF3, 4-1 on compassion-based
 interventions and REF3 4-3 on maths anxiety).

 Other external collaborations include The Actors Workshop (Van Gordon); Derby Theatre
 (Hallam); Derbyshire Constabulary (Childs); Derbyshire Voluntary Action (Kotera); East Midlands
 Trains Derby (Lipka); First Steps Derby (Fido and Kotera); Highways England (Kotera); Kubota
 Corporation, Japan (Kotera); Leeds United Football Club (Zhang); Methodist Homes Association
 (Van Gordon); Relate Chesterfield (Kotera); Road Safety Trust (Van Gordon); and YMCA
 Derbyshire (Hallam).




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2 Organisation of external events
 Unit researchers have organised and/or contributed to many external events in recognition of their
 expertise and achievement in relevant research. Examples include: a Pearson Education
 roundtable event (London, July 2019) on tackling maths anxiety; National Numeracy’s National
 Numeracy Day, and the launch event of a key National Numeracy report at the Bank of England
 in November 2019; multiple maths anxiety workshops for educational psychologists (September
 2018), Derbyshire teachers (2018-19), and teachers, parents and pupils in schools in Turkey and
 Uganda in September 2018, February 2019 and March 2020 (Hunt). This work is progressing and
 expanding; there was a national workshop in October 2020 on overcoming maths anxiety in health
 and social care (Hunt).

 Unit researchers also organised: an online nature connectedness policy workshop in June 2020,
 attended by representatives from Government departments and wider stakeholders to hear the
 latest evidence and discuss policy implications (Richardson); a webinar on self-care delivered to
 Highways England (11th July 2019), Derbyshire Voluntary Action (16th June 2020), and Taisho
 University, Tokyo (August and September 2019) (Kotera); and an international online conference
 on the higher education sector in the post pandemic landscape’ (July 2020) (Howard).
 Researchers in the Unit also had their research experience and expertise recognised through
 invited keynote talks at international events (Childs, Hunt, Gilbert, Kotera, Lumber, Maratos,
 Richardson, Stupple and Van Gordon).

 4.3 Recognition of contributions and expertise through positions and awards
 Researchers in the Unit had their research experience and expertise recognised through being
 invited members of committees and advisory groups. These include the Core Advisory Group for
 the Mind-Matter Mapping Project (Baker); the Steering Committee of “Compassion in Politics”, a
 major international group seeking to create opportunities for improved compassion in society
 (Gilbert); the BPS Qualitative Methods in Psychology Section (Howard is an elected committee
 member); the BPS Psychology of Education Section (Hunt is an elected committee member);
 Health Education England’s Special Interest Group for Functional Skills, National Numeracy
 (Hunt); the Durrell Wildlife Conservation Trusts’ Conservation Committee (Lumber); the
 Mindfulness Initiative (MI) steering group, which provides the secretariat for the Mindfulness All-
 Party Parliamentary Group (MAPPG) (Maratos); the UK government's Nature Friendly Schools
 External Advisory Board (Richardson is Chair); Natural England’s Strategic Research Group for
 Learning in Natural Environments (Richardson); the International Ergonomics Association
 Technical Committee on Human Factors for Sustainable Development (Richardson); the Council
 of the Chartered Institute of Ergonomics and Human Factors (Richardson); Derby Women’s
 Centre (Spenser is a trustee); the Medito Foundation (Van Gordon); and the Concurrent
 Disorders Society, Canada (Kotera and Van Gordon).

 Researchers in the Unit also had their research experience and expertise recognised through
 academic editorial duties and publishing advisory work (Baker, Gilbert, Howard, Hunt, Kotera,
 Lipka, Maratos, Richardson, Sharpe, Stupple, Van Gordon) and have used their reputations
 and profiles to lobby government and campaign for change by writing public letters and letters for
 publication in the press on subjects related to their expertise (Gilbert, Maratos and Richardson).

 Gilbert is the founder and president of the Compassionate Mind Foundation and Consultant
 Clinical Psychologist at Derbyshire Health Care Foundation Trust. Gilbert was awarded an OBE
 in March 2011 for services to mental health and was also awarded the BPS Division of Clinical
 Psychology’s Monte Shapiro award in 2015. Zhang received a Young Investigator Award at the
 2015 Congress of the European College of Sport Science.




                                                                                            Page 14
