Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Falmouth University

 Unit of Assessment: 32 - Art & Design

 Section 1: Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1. Context

 Falmouth University is the only University headquartered in Cornwall & the Isles of Scilly
 (C&IoS). In the REF period 2014 –2021, Cornwall was classified as the only ‘Less Developed
 Region’ in England eligible for EU structural funds. Operating in a peripheral rural region with
 long-standing economic and societal challenges, the University is committed to its civic role as
 an anchor institution and to being an agent for transformation in the region.

 In the past five years, we have cultivated a research and innovation environment, where our
 research is embedded within the creative industries but is also increasingly undertaken across
 wider discipline boundaries. This approach is embodied in our concept - The Creative Bridge -
 where in collaboration with a range of sectors and partners, we bring our creativity and specialist
 skills to help solve some of the grand challenges of our age. This enables our research and
 innovation to deliver societal and economic impact, both inside and outside the boundaries of
 the creative industries.

 Today, 120 years after Falmouth School of Art began, we have grown into a major Creative
 Industries hub, with a portfolio that spans most creative disciplines, as well as a School of
 Entrepreneurship (established 2016). We have also built a critical mass of research
 practitioners, and innovators who coalesce around shared themes. A creative, connected
 community where design thinking and advancing the digital economy has become a defining
 common core.

 All of this is facilitated by the formal strategic partnership we have built with our Local Authority,
 Cornwall Council and Cornwall & the Isles of Scilly (C&IoS) LEP. Together, we are working to a
 20-year planning horizon to deliver a place-based research and innovation ecosystem where
 creativity has a central role to play in cultural, social and economic transformation. Underpinned
 by an approach that first identifies challenges, then uses creative thinking to find solutions in
 collaboration with others; a key tenet which runs throughout Falmouth and is explained more
 fully in Falmouth University’s 2030 Strategy and our 2030 Research and Innovation Strategy.

 1.2. Structure of Submission

 REF2014 - reflected the timing of the merger and physical co-location of Falmouth University
 and Dartington College of Arts, so researchers were returned in two units:
    • (UoA 34) - Art & Design: History, Practice & Theory
    • (UoA 35) - Music, Drama, Dance & the Performing Arts
    • 55 Staff (50.39 FTE) were submitted

 REF2021 - reflects a fully integrated research and innovation environment. Our approach to
 operating across traditional boundaries under the auspices of art and design is best represented
 within:
     • (UoA 32) - Art & Design: History, Practice & Theory
     • 78 staff (64.3 FTE) self-identified as having ‘Significant Responsibility for Research’
     • By the end of the census period, we had 89 PhD completions, with 50 PGR current
         enrolments. A further 3, are awaiting examination.

 Themes
 3 distinct overarching Research & Innovation Themes were identified as part of the Research &
 Innovation review, in 2015. These Themes are interdisciplinary knowledge bases chosen to
 outlast trends and to become an integral part of Falmouth’s DNA:

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Design Thinking (Eriksson) - finds creative solutions to improve products and services using
 open innovation and entrepreneurial approaches, aimed at film, design, games, entertainment,
 finance and service sectors. This Theme provides context for research and development arising
 from Falmouth’s award-winning incubation model, Launchpad, which is growing a generation of
 new tech businesses able to attract significant public/private/corporate investment, including
 Cornwall Council, venture capital, Sony, Amazon and more.

 Digital Economies (Krzywinska) - leverages the range of opportunities afforded by digital
 technologies, including Artificial Intelligence, and the potential of AR and VR to experience
 design. By introducing creative computing to industries such as e-health, heritage and tourism,
 DE outputs have played a significant role in propelling the growth of the region’s Creative
 Economy and imaginatively addressing its peripheral geographical location.

 Creative Connected Communities (Prior) - addresses specific societal challenges, including
 health and wellbeing. This Theme positions Cornwall as a living lab, co-creating outcomes with
 stakeholders for regional benefit and national/international impact, e.g. Augmented Telegrapher
 and Sound/Image Cinema Lab. It also plays a key part in the civic role of the university.

 Research & Innovation (R&I) Programmes
 Within our 3 over-arching Themes sit 10 interdisciplinary Programmes, which represent a
 response to either a societal challenge or an identified market need:

 Digital Creativity (Krywinska) - explores innovative applications of game and interface design.
 Based on the development of creative applications of digital technologies, this programme tests
 the types of engagement these technologies generate, from developing immersive experiences
 for museums to researching innovative uses of procedural generation.

 Dark Economies (Heholt) - examines cultures of death and darkness. The Programme
 investigates social interaction to the effects of new technologies and emergent social
 conventions on memorialisation, mythology, death, dying and loss.

 Financial Innovation and Digital Entrepreneurship (Eriksson) - examines the role of creativity in
 driving both entrepreneurship and financial innovation. This Programme is focused on
 establishing innovative methods for developing the next generation of entrepreneurs and
 encourages a spirit of enterprise throughout the university.

 Environmental Futures (Lewis-Jones) - addresses the complex functions and dynamics of living
 networks. The Creative Industries help illuminate experiences of natural systems and our human
 role in them, by imagining better ways of engaging with our lived world and pioneering innovative
 designs for future modes of living.

 Inequality and Storytelling (Morris) - drives change and reduces inequalities through the creative
 act of storytelling. Projects take an interdisciplinary approach to harness the potential of
 storytelling to impact today’s economic, socio-demographic and cultural inequalities.

 Multigenerational Living and Learning (Springer) - investigates an adult social care system that
 is under unprecedented pressure, whilst seeking new models of living and learning ripe for
 exploration. This Programme investigates multigenerational living and care models and
 technologies for adult social care.

 Design for Health and Wellbeing (Mankee-Williams) - stimulates research and innovation that
 addresses global health and wellbeing challenges. A pre-eminent example of the ‘Creative
 Bridge’ concept in action, this Programme leverages the skills and creativity of students and staff
 from across the university.



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Creative Industries Futures (Hodsdon) – asks how creative thinking, innovation and practice can
 contribute to the development and social impact of the creative industries. Our interdisciplinary
 research both pushes the boundaries of creative disciplines, and seeks to use those disciplines
 to advance equality and excellence in the creative industries.

 Pedagogy Futures (Fox) - develops models for engaging with the creative industries as a means
 to research, teach and develop new models for teaching and learning that both honours
 educational traditions and responds to technological and structural shifts.

 Metamakers (Kryzwinska) - undertakes computational creativity research with the aim of
 stimulating economic development by making software a creative collaborator. Metamakers
 demonstrates the creative potential of software and how software systems initially built for
 experimental research can be commercialised.

 The 3 Themes are each led by a member of the Professoriate. The 10 Programmes are fronted
 by an experienced member of Research & Innovation staff, supported by a substantive time
 allocation.

 1.3. Research Impact Strategy

 Our progress against the objectives set out in the 2014–21 Research & Innovation Strategy and
 the 2014 REF Environment statement is summarised below:

 Alignment to regional priorities - our 2030 Research & Innovation (R&I) Strategy is now
 intertwined with the C&IoS Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP) 2030 Vision and Strategic
 Economic Plan, which cites ‘innovation and creativity as a strategic driver and acknowledges
 that ‘every sector of the economy needs innovation and creativity to adapt to market demand’.
 Launchpad is building a new tech cluster for a regional economy that is otherwise dependent on
 low wage sectors, including tourism, marine and agriculture. Cornwall Council has become a
 partner, investing £2m in 2016 into Phase 2 of Launchpad’s expansion. Launchpad will be a
 critical component in the delivery of C&IoS ‘s Local Industrial Strategy, to ‘…secure Cornwall
 and the Isles of Scilly as an internationally renowned rural creative region’.

 Research in the creative economy - we have contributed to the UK’s research and innovation
 base in traditional creative areas such as storytelling and place-making (Bait) and design
 innovation and environmental issues (Bee Brick). At the same time, our ‘creative bridge’
 approach is increasingly in demand in diverse sectors such as health, satellite technology, space
 & aerospace and financial services.

 Grow Partnerships and Collaborations - we have grown external research partnerships and
 interdisciplinary collaborations with external partners such as the South West Creative
 Technology Network (SWCTN) and the 3D3 Centre for Doctoral Training. Other partnerships
 span industry and 3rd sector organisations, including the National Trust and BBC R&D. The
 Connected Health Care project, funded by the NHS and European and UK Space Agencies,
 draws together a partnership which includes Goonhilly Earth Station, Kernow Health and the
 Universities of Aberdeen and the Highlands and Islands to meet connectivity and health care
 needs in rural areas of Cornwall and Scotland. Similarly, Launchpad has built a rich network of
 global strategic partners, including All 4 Games; Amazon/AWS; and Sony Interactive
 Entertainment, to name just a few.

 Improve Research Outputs and Impact - sections 2-4 illustrate how we have invested in staff
 capacity and capability. Increased research income, commitment to staff development,
 membership of external bodies and the significant growth in partnerships and collaborations
 have all helped improve the quality of research outputs in the census period. An Economic
 Study by Hatch (2021) quantifies Falmouth’s impact upon Cornwall’s economy, including £100m
 in annual GVA contribution, predicted to become £200m by 2030, demonstrating significant
 economic impact in the region.

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Future Plans (2021-2026) - the university’s 2030 Strategy commits the institution to full
 integration of research, innovation and teaching through the delivery of a porous model that co-
 locates teaching, research, innovation, and knowledge exchange in much closer proximity in
 highly flexible environments.

 Launchpad+ - this project puts in place the fourth and final phase of a major ‘innovation
 ecosystem’ for Cornwall, in which a new £20m Launchpad+ facility will sit at the core of a £160m
 major economic redevelopment project in the heart of the city of Truro. The Launchpad+
 community will bring together a vibrant mix of researchers, innovators, start-up businesses,
 industry partners and students into a new integrated research, innovation and learning
 environment. In this context, new models of research and innovation will be enabled where
 complex problems will be tackled by transdisciplinary teams that include industry partners from
 the outset. The core focus of the enquiry —future applications of digital technologies— will
 explore the potential of games, computing, robotics, AI, Virtual and Augmented Reality, film and
 television to fundamentally reshape and benefit society and the economy.

 Our 2030 R&I Strategy outlines the following goals:

    •   Anchor institution in Cornwall - we will continue to work with C&IoS council, LEP and
        other key stakeholders as a primary R&I partner, addressing the social, cultural and
        economic needs of the region.
    •   Open Innovation - our emerging D:Lab facility will act as a creative epicentre for the co-
        creation of R&I. In cooperation with industry, public sector and other HEIs, we will build
        upon our knowledge base and apply our Design Thinking and Open Innovation approach
        to tackling the grand challenges of our age.
    •   Hub of Living Labs – working with our R&I stakeholders as active partners rather than
        passive subjects or beneficiaries, we will engage in systematic user co-creation,
        developing best practice in participatory, empathic and emotional design.
    •   100 new start-ups - we will accelerate our incubation of new high growth start-ups,
        testing, developing and refining both the Launchpad model and our ‘Talent Agencies’ and
        disseminating our research on sustainable and inclusive entrepreneurship.




                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 2: People

 2.1. People Strategy and Staff Development

 Falmouth is committed to developing a sustainable R&I ecosystem and people are at the heart
 of this. Building staff capacity and capability is a primary objective of the 2030 R&I Strategy,
 which outlines ambitious targets for attracting and developing high-performing staff, according to
 four principles:

 Principle 1: Nurturing interdisciplinary research & innovation

 R&I Programme Leads - were appointed in 2017 to nurture the development of the R&I
 ecosystem at Falmouth, providing R&I leadership to staff and PGRs. These Programmes are
 interdisciplinary by nature, encouraging collaborative working and sharing of facilities,
 underpinned by accessible R&I development and support teams. Monthly Programme meetings
 foster inter-departmental collaboration by providing a forum to profile research, share ideas and
 develop collaborative funding bids.

 Four fixed-term Research Fellows - were appointed in 2018 to support further inter-
 departmental collaboration. Aligned to the R&I Programmes, the Fellows offered a central point
 of contact for research support. Two of these now have permanent contracts.

 Research & Innovation Development Programme (RIDP) - comprises over 20 sessions, open
 to staff and PGRs, covering themes including integrity and ethics; researcher wellbeing; project
 management; funding; knowledge exchange; public engagement and PGR supervisory best
 practice. Our investment in existing staff is underpinned by Vitae’s Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers. Recordings of RIDP sessions are available to broaden
 access. RIDP incorporates lectures and seminars from external facilitators and integrates with
 Falmouth’s departmental programme of guest lectures and seminars, as well as workshops and
 conferences organised by R&I Programmes.

 Visiting Professors - were appointed to forge interdisciplinary partnerships between Falmouth’s
 staff and students across our creative bridge to other sectors, most prominently health. For
 instance, in the reporting period, consultant neuropsychiatrist Prof. Rohit Shankar’s role resulted
 in the development of the Attune project described in Section 4.

 Principle 2: Appointing high performing staff

 Falmouth is committed to enhancing the quality of its research-informed teaching and as such
 we have prioritised R&I and PhD completion experience, in addition to teaching capability, in the
 appointment of academic staff.

 Staff induction – new staff are provided with a comprehensive induction to R&I, with guidance
 on aligning to R&I Programmes, the invitation (where appropriate) to undertake PGR supervisory
 training, contribute to RIDP and PGR student development sessions and complete an Individual
 Research and Innovation Plan (IRIP).

 Professoriate - provide intellectual leadership within academic departments through activities
 such as R&I Programme Leadership, PGR examining, peer reviewing and providing regular
 feedback on the quality of Falmouth’s research outputs and their associated impact. The 2030
 R&I Strategy outlines the appointment of Professors as a key performance indicator towards
 establishing a sustainable research culture. Since 2014, a total of 14 Professorial appointments
 have been made, both through internal promotions and external appointments, significantly
 increasing the research expertise within the university.

 Senior leadership - two senior positions were recently introduced to Falmouth to accelerate the
 university’s progress against its targets for research, innovation, diversification, and

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 commercialisation as outlined in its 2030 Strategy. In March 2020, Professor Patric Eriksson
 joined as Deputy Vice Chancellor as the university’s senior leader for Research, Innovation,
 Enterprise, and Commercial ventures. Professor Eriksson has received the European Union
 Enterprise Development Award for work developing one of Europe’s leading university-based
 Innovation Ecosystems. In July 2020, Professor Minhua Eunice Ma, joined as Provost, a new
 role with extensive institution-wide responsibilities. Professor Ma is a prominent researcher in
 games technology. As members of the Vice-Chancellor's Executive Group and Academic Board,
 both roles provide strategic leadership of research governance at Falmouth.

 Strategic secondments - R&I at Falmouth has also benefitted significantly from strategic
 secondments from other sectors. These include: Glenn Caplin-Grey, now Chief Executive of the
 C&IoS LEP and Service Director for Economic Growth for Cornwall Council, who was seconded
 to Falmouth as Director of Strategic Innovation Projects (2017 -2018); Jonathan Eddy, seconded
 from the Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) (2018 – 2020) to take
 on the role of Director of Innovation and Research funding; and Anna Mankee-Williams,
 seconded from her role as a Head of Service Commissioning Performance and Improvement –
 Education Health & Social Care at Cornwall Council, now Lead for the Design for Health &
 Wellbeing Programme.

 Principle 3: Implementing the Individual Research & Innovation Plan

 IRIPs provide a structured opportunity for academic staff to define R&I objectives for the coming
 year. IRIPs are the mechanism that ensures equality in our research environment, due to the
 transparency of the process and its embedding in support mechanisms. Objectives agreed
 through IRIPs are incorporated into each Personal Development Review (PDR) and staff are
 signposted to relevant RIDP sessions, based on identified needs.

 Falmouth is committed to providing equal opportunities for all staff and therefore ensures that
 access to Research and Scholarly Activity (RSA) time has not been dictated by the quality or
 quantity of outputs. Emergent researchers are mentored for 2 years to support them to develop
 their research skills.

 Principle 4: Investing in our existing staff

 Early Career Research (ECR) Scheme - developed to provide the opportunity for ECRs to
 apply for funding to support activities including attending international conferences, developing
 grant proposals, or undertaking short industry-based placements for the development of their
 career as independent researchers.

 Research Staff Support Scheme - is utilised to support teaching remission, over and above the
 RSA allocation, to support the generation of world-leading research. Examples include funded
 time to support the completion of both Ferret’s Bloomsbury monograph, Dark Sound: Feminine
 Voices in Sonic Shadow (2020) and Heholt’s Routledge monograph, Catherine Crowe: Gender,
 Genre, and Radical Politics (2020).

 STEP-UP - a Research Mentoring Scheme is available to all staff. Emergent researchers are
 provided mentoring opportunities, either through the STEP-UP scheme or with R&I Programme
 Leads, to work towards developing their first, quality output.

 Staff PhD fee-waivers - used to support doctoral study at Falmouth (or elsewhere as
 appropriate) with the opportunity for staff to use RSA time in support of their studies.

 Fixed Term Contracts Policy - provides security to staff employed on fixed term research
 contracts and encourages line managers to seek opportunities for permanent employment
 where possible. During the census period, 43% of research staff on fixed-term contracts have
 become permanent employees.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Technician Commitment - as part of Falmouth’s engagement with the Technician
 Commitment, Technicians have been integral to numerous externally funded projects,
 recognising their contribution to the R&I ecosystem. For example, technical teams supported
 Launchpad, Online Orchestra, Augmented Telegrapher, and films produced by the Sound/Image
 Cinema Lab, (qv. Fox, 2018).

 Expanding PGR supervision capacity - since 2017, a supervisor development programme has
 been delivered as part of the RIDP and now comprises 10 units. These have been structured
 around the themes identified by the UKCGE Research Supervisor Recognition Programme and
 staff are encouraged to make use of the online materials provided to augment in-house training.
 Falmouth are also working with SEDA to gain accreditation for our supervisor forum units.

 2.2. Research students

 Falmouth has come a long way since enrolling its first cohort of research students in 1997 as
 Falmouth College of Art. With 89 successfully completed PhDs during the census period, a
 growing number of applications from around the world, a steady improvement in student
 satisfaction and an exciting range of career destinations of our PGR alumni, our PGR community
 are central to the delivery of our 2030 R&I Strategy. Committed to achieving RDAP ourselves,
 Falmouth has enjoyed a close working relationship with UAL since 2004.

 Strategic alignment - our 2030 R&I strategy underscores the central importance of PGRs to our
 R&I ecosystem, focusing our admissions processes on recruiting students whose projects align
 with the priorities of our R&I Themes and Programmes. Increasingly, applicants are responding
 to advertised briefs in a move to ensure the building of critical mass in priority areas.

 In keeping with this approach, PGRs are now embedded into academic departments rather than
 hosted by a discrete Graduate School (as was the case in 2014) making for easier access to
 departmental facilities and a closer integration with staff projects. Examples of PGR integration
 into funded bids and published outputs include Ciaran Clarke’s role as a co-lead on the Story
 Futures-funded Varyon VR project, John Speakman’s co-authorship with staff and Kelly Parker’s
 role on the editorial board of Misiak’s MAI journal. Around half of our PGR students have had
 teaching roles at Falmouth.

 Research student satisfaction - has risen year-on-year since 2014. The 2019/20 Advance HE
 Post Graduate Research Student Experience Survey (PRES) results showed 89.5% overall
 satisfaction. This was 8% above the GuildHE average and outperformed GuildHE benchmarks in
 6 of the 8 question areas, including research culture, progression and assessment, research
 skills and professional development.

 PGR student representative - is elected annually, sitting on both the Research Degrees
 Committee and the Research Integrity & Ethics Committee and playing a central role in the
 design and appraisal of our Research Student Development Programme (RSDP). PGR students
 are also integrated into the delivery of RSDP, with student-led components woven into the
 programme throughout.

 Doctoral scholarships & post-doctoral fellowships - we have benefitted enormously from the
 3D3 Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT). 3D3 has funded 5 cohorts of PhD students across the
 South West and has received further competitive funding for 2 cohorts of NPIF PhD studentships
 and 2 NPIF post-doctoral Creative Industries Engagement Fellows based at Falmouth.

 Falmouth Doctoral Studentships - were introduced in 2017 to provide the university with a
 means to invest in deeply embedded projects that respond to institutional priority. Benchmarked
 against UKRI studentships, Falmouth Doctoral Studentships are awarded to candidates
 responding to doctoral briefs, each sponsored by a Department Director and an R&I Programme
 lead. In addition to these centrally funded opportunities, departments have offered their own
 studentships to support local R&I priorities. For example, a Games Academy-funded project

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 explored novel support mechanisms to improve retention on computing degree programmes.
 Notably, the Games Academy attracted external funding, including a student winning a Google
 Women in Tech award for PhD research into applying machine learning to evaluate digital game
 development.

 Research Student Development Programme (RSDP) - has been developed to map against
 the QAA Quality Code for Research Degrees. It comprises over 50 sessions across the year,
 including induction, research skills, project management and critical thinking, preparation for key
 milestones, confidence and wellbeing sessions, presentation skills and career development.
 Integrated into the programme are three annual symposia, each featuring external and alumni
 keynotes, who are then invited to act as a ‘critical friend’ for student panels. In addition to
 standard conference presentation formats, we have pioneered practice showcases integrating
 performances, exhibitions, workshops, demonstrations, and film screenings. We also offer
 students the opportunity to submit written papers in advance for chaired discussion, offering an
 alternative to standard conference presentation.

 Access to networks, resources, and support - PGR students also benefit from access to
 resources at UAL, which includes their library and participation in their RNUAL student
 development programme. As members of GuildHE research, Falmouth PGRs have also
 attended GuildHE’s Summer School, which features speakers from organisations including the
 Wellcome Trust and the National Centre for Public Engagement. PGR students have access to a
 full range of central student support services and, since 2017, we have run a PGR peer support
 scheme. Over the course of their study, Falmouth PGRs can access up to £1200 to attend
 conferences or travel to training events.

 The Brilliant Club - since 2019, Falmouth has partnered with the Brilliant Club, an award-
 winning university access charity that works to increase the number of pupils from
 underrepresented backgrounds progressing to highly selective universities. The Brilliant Club
 place doctoral students in secondary schools and work with students to develop bespoke
 curriculum based on their research.

 PhD alumni - go on to high-profile roles in industry and the third sector, including Hilary Kolinksy
 (2017), Director at McCaren Architecture; Sam Bleakley (2016), renowned surf-filmmaker, writer
 and presenter, and Sue Smith (2015), CLORE fellow and Executive Director of Dance in Devon.
 Others have gone on to prestigious roles in academia, including Robyn-Anne Potanin (2017),
 Professor of Interactive Design and Game Development, Savannah College of Art and Design,
 USA; Ian Biscoe (2020), Associate Professor, Design Academy Eindhoven, NL, and Tavs
 Jorgenson (2016), Associate Professor and AHRC Leadership Fellow in the Centre for Fine Print
 at UWE, UK.

 2.3. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 Falmouth’s People Strategy outlines our commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion.
 Following the outcome of the initial Equality and Impact Assessment for REF2021 it was
 identified that women were under-represented within the Professoriate, which we are addressing
 through our STEP-Up mentoring scheme and our annual call-outs for professorial promotion.
 Meanwhile, half of our R&I programmes are led by women.

 Recognising the central role PGRs play in our research strategy, the university have invested
 significantly via the Falmouth Doctoral Studentship in PhD research addressing issues of EDI,
 including Kelly Parker’s investigation into the representation of black culture in UK television
 advertising and Kitto Maddrell’s work on the potential of 360 immersive film making to offer new
 ways of representation.

 Race Equality Working Group - established within the census period to review Falmouth’s
 policies and practices. The group sought feedback from across the institution on a range of


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 issues, including decolonising the curriculum and tackling racial harassment in HE. The group
 secured the university’s commitment to pursue the Advance HE Race Equality Charter.

 Section 3: Income, infrastructure, and facilities

 3.1. Income

 Falmouth has secured over £5m in external research funding since 2014, demonstrating our
 maturing R&I culture during the census period. Fully engaged in our role as an anchor
 institution, we have unlocked a further £17.5m in European Structural Funding (ESF and ERDF)
 to build the foundation upon which our 2030 R&I strategy can be delivered. Combined, these
 funds have been used to create a living laboratory of open innovation in which research into
 regional social, cultural and economic challenges can result in global impact.

 Launchpad - is an example of this R&I ecosystem in action. With an initial investment in 2013,
 £11.8m of external funding was secured in 2016 to develop the second phase of this
 programme, which involved the creation of a £5.8m R&I facility on Penryn campus. Launchpad
 achieved further investment in 2019 by securing £4.5m of ERDF continuation funding to extend
 the programme for 3 years. This ERDF investment enabled the programme to leverage £1m of
 Research England investment as part of the University Enterprise Zone programme, and a
 further £900k of Local Authority investment. Cornwall Council’s total investment of £2.9m into
 Launchpad is testament to the pivotal status the programme has to the region’s economic
 development.

 Games and Digital Creativity - the development of the Launchpad programme has been
 simultaneous with that of our Games Academy and as the Launchpad Impact Case Study
 demonstrates, the Launchpad methodology has underpinned the infrastructural foundation upon
 which numerous other projects have been based.

 MetaMakers offers an example of this process from early in the REF cycle. The project was the
 result of a successful €2.4 million bid to an FP7 framework research grant and saw the
 appointment of Professor Simon Colton as European Research Area (ERA) Chair, accompanied
 by a team of Research Fellows, to develop a critical mass of expertise in AI, computational
 creativity, and games research opportunities. This funding was secured at the inception of the
 Games Academy in 2014 and has helped to raise the profile of the school to being named as
 one of the top 50 games schools in the world in the 2020 Princeton Review: the only English
 institution to make the list and one of only two in the UK.

 The FP7 award provided the catalyst for further funding into digital creativity research throughout
 the reporting period, including Angelina, which focused on the impact of independent games
 festivals (Cook, EPSRC ‘Telling Tales’ programme £10k); the Digital Creativity (DC) Hub, part of
 a £5m project to support high-growth games and media companies in the region (Colton,
 EPSRC £155k); and Augmented Telegrapher, which researched the use of multi-player mixed-
 reality technology in museum and heritage contexts (Krzywinska, AHRC £110k).

 Augmented Telegrapher was the first of numerous awards to focus on immersive experience
 design. The wAVE project (Augmented and Virtual Experiences) followed on directly, bringing
 together C&IoS’s coastal communities, heritage centres and Falmouth academics to develop
 engaging virtual, augmented, and immersive reality experiences (Krzywinska, Coastal
 Communities Fund, £346k). Discriminate AR used binaural sound to test the minimum
 interventions that could be made to transform an experience of place (Whittaker, AHRC/ NPIF
 £41k). Varyon VR used VR headsets and games engines to fuse physical performance spaces
 with game environments by creating live interactive experiences between actors and audience
 members in VR (Kruse, Story Futures, £17k and SWCTN £2k). More recently, Immersive
 Business leverages structural funding to create the foundation for a world-class immersive
 technology lab where businesses are supported in competing nationally and globally through the
 development of innovative immersive technology-enabled products (ERDF £1.6m).

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Creative Bridge - a central concept in our 2030 R&I Strategy, describing the role creative
 practitioners can play in open innovation ecosystems by bridging the creative industries with the
 broader creative economy. Examples of this include Connected Health Care, which seeks to
 provide a digital infrastructure for primary care, secondary care and service users in rural
 communities via secure satellite connections (€391k European Space Agency / UK Space
 Agency), and Falmouth delivering e-Health solutions leadership within the Innovate UK-funded
 Satellite Applications Catapult Centre of Excellence.

 ESF has been used to support projects central to the Creative Bridge concept. For example,
 Health and Wellbeing researched early intervention support for economically inactive full-time
 HE students who are in the final stages of their academic programmes and have disclosed a
 mental health issue or learning difficulty (ESF £377k). Meanwhile, Smart Specialisation Higher
 Skills Innovation supported online CPD for business, by means of storytelling with immersive
 technology (ESF £273k). Similarly, Falmouth’s product designers addressed the issue of
 sustainable lobster farming through the BBSRC/Innovate-funded Lobster Grower programme
 (Masterton, £193k).

 Our partnership in multi-disciplinary networks, including the South West Creative Technology
 Network (SWCTN) and the AHRC 3D3 CDT, has also provided the basis for much inter- and
 trans-disciplinary research, both having been premised on addressing larger societal challenges
 from the perspective of creative practice. SWCTN is a £6.5m programme which expanded the
 use of creative technologies across the South West (Falmouth £242k). 3D3 has funded 5
 cohorts of PhD students on its standard route and a further two cohorts of NPIF student. Post
 doctoral fellowships attracted a further £81k of investment to Falmouth.

 The Creative Bridge ethos can also be found in the approaches Falmouth staff have taken to
 addressing the theme of marginalised cultures, especially in relation to Cornish culture and
 identity. An initial award of just £9k from the Landscape Research Group laid the foundation for
 a successful JPICH Project -Cultural Heritage Identities and Perspectives grant of over €608k for
 Hodsdon’s project, Re-asserting marginalised cultures in majority contexts: Exploring
 perspectives on intangible cultural heritage starts in Spring 2021, with partnerships in the
 Netherlands, Estonia and Latvia. Monk’s, Cornish Public Service Broadcasting report for
 Cornwall Council (£35k) offers another example of funded work in this area.

 Throughout the census period, additions to our QR allocation have been used strategically to
 pump-prime the delivery of our R&I strategy. For example, Unequal Stories investigates gender
 equality and representation in design disciplines in the UK and South Africa. Funded through our
 Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) QR-allocation, Falmouth partnered with the
 University of Johannesburg and was one of only 10 GCRF strategies to be commended by
 Research England (RE) in 2019 (Prior, GCRF, £60k). Our 2019/20 Strategic Priorities Fund
 (SPF) allocation was used to work with health-sector partners on the NHS’s pivot towards digital
 provision (RE SPF £50k). We partnered with Cornwall Council in the use of our 2020/21 SPF
 allocation to assess the efficacy of Cornwall’s network of creative hubs in supporting the
 priorities identified in the Council’s Creative Manifesto (RE SPF £50k).

 Pedagogy Futures - ‘Doing it for real’ has a high profile in our institutional literature. Based in
 the School of Film and Television (SoFT), the Sound/Image Cinema Lab (SICL) exemplifies how
 this ethos is manifest in research and innovation. SICL has leveraged £20k investment through
 a range of partnerships including the BFI, BBC, Creative England and Film4 to support practice
 research in the creation of narrative and documentary films throughout the reporting period,
 including the multi-award-winning films Bait and Wilderness, which both attracted significant
 attention for the crucial role staff and students played in their production. Women and Film
 Under Communism (Misiak, Leverhulme, £50k), represents SoFT’s central role in the Inequality
 and Storytelling Programme.



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Online Orchestra asked how the internet could be used to give children and amateur musicians
 who live in remote communities around the country the same opportunities to play in an
 orchestra as those who live in larger towns and cities (Rofe, AHRC, £162k & ACE £15k).
 Emerging directly from this work, since 2018 Falmouth have had an exclusive research and
 development partnership with Trinity College London, one of the largest music education
 providers in the world (Prior, TCL, £294k).

 3.2. Infrastructure and Facilities

 Infrastructure - the principal investment in infrastructure over the reporting period has been the
 introduction of the R&I Programmes. This included the appointment of R&I Programme Leads to
 oversee the development of each Programme, supported by a substantive time allocation to host
 workshops, provide academic staff mentoring and develop external funding proposals. Internal
 funding has also been provided to underwrite the development of academic conferences relating
 to the Programmes. This saw events such as Folk Horror in the Twenty-First Century conference
 and the British Academy of Management hosting of the Digital Transformation and Circular
 Entrepreneurship International Symposium being hosted at Falmouth.

 Research and Development and the External Funding team complement the Professoriate and
 the Programme Leads, offering training and support to academics in areas including the
 development of high-quality external funding applications. In 2016/17 an External Funding
 Process was introduced, which partners academics through a peer review process during the
 development of their application. Within this process, academics are asked to consider the
 position of their proposals within Falmouth’s R&I Programmes and to identify anticipated impact
 from the outset; this is a core principle of our R&I Strategy. Since its introduction, external
 funding success rates have increased exponentially.

 Dedicated research facilities – Throughout the census period, significant investment has been
 made in interconnected, purpose-built R&I buildings on the Penryn Campus. In total these
 buildings provide 2750sqm of high-spec facilities. This incorporates;

    •   Launchpad: £5.8m (1100sqm, 2016) home to over 30 Games, Tech start-up companies
        being developed at any one time.
    •   Creative Bridge: £3m (650sqm, 2019) conference/event facilities, literally the bridge
        between the OpenAIR and Launchpad Buildings.
    •   Immersive Business: £600k (240sqm, 2020) A new virtual, augmented and mixed
        reality lab that will ensure that SMEs will compete globally in the development of
        immersive technologies.

        And also,
    •   OpenAIR: Built in 2012 (1000sqm), this flexible, dedicated R&I building was designed to
        enable PGR students and staff to collaborate and innovate. The building was refurbished
        in 2019.

 Collectively, these spaces have been designed to promote open innovation, where all members
 of the R&I community are invited to collaborate on inter-departmental projects. Equipped with
 open studios, ideation and exhibition spaces, silent study & break-out areas, these buildings
 provide a ‘One-stop’ location for Falmouth’s researchers, PGRs, R&I management, investment,
 and support teams. Falmouth’s World Class Labs QR allocation in 2021 enabled us to equip
 OpenAIR with technology to facilitate fully blended, multiple in-person and online conferencing.

 Libraries, Archives and Special Collections - following significant investment in the
 refurbishment of Falmouth’s two libraries in 2012, the facilities on the Falmouth and Penryn
 campuses provide an extensive collection of online databases, electronic and print journals,
 books, images, films, special collections, and archives. The library offers services to help the
 research community to access materials outside of our collections, including BL On Demand
 (British Library) and SCONUL access. Tailored PhD student support is provided by expert

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 subject librarians and archivists, who advise on library collections, copyright, open-access
 publishing and disseminating research. A further investment of £975,000 from Falmouth
 University and the University of Exeter was made in 2018/19 to extend the facilities and create
 24/7-access to the Penryn campus, and a dedicated space for Falmouth’s Archives and Special
 collections and significant improvement to the collaborative working spaces in the library. The
 University holds several special collections with international significance, including Kneehigh
 Theatre, Bill Mitchell Archive, Wildworks, Nick Darke and Tom Cross. University and visiting
 researchers frequently use these and other collections.

 Technical facilities - the University’s industry-standard technical facilities are integral to our R&I
 ecosystem. For example, the School of Film and Television’s (SoFT) technical facilities are a key
 component of the Sound/Image Cinema Lab (see SICL impact case study). With camera
 technologies ranging from super8 and Bolex 16mm to the latest Arri, Red, Sony and Black Magic
 professional digital cinema cameras and a 25-seat dubbing theatre based around the
 Avid/ProTools S6 console, Falmouth’s cinema production facilities are able support the diversity
 of the lab’s portfolio. Similarly, the Academy of Music and Theatre Art’s (AMATA) performance
 and recording spaces formed the backbone of the Online Orchestra, where a microphone
 collection comparable to any world-class recording complex, partnerships with SSL, Yamaha,
 and locally headquartered Allen & Heath, all serve to support the University’s R&I. This pattern is
 replicated across the institution, with the Art and Design facilities supporting research from
 textiles to the rapid prototyping, on which Lobster Grower was based to the Games Academy
 studios, which formed the primary development arena for projects including Augmented
 Telegrapher and wAVE. One of the largest dedicated game development spaces of any UK
 university, the facility includes a full motion-capture studio and industry-standard facilities for
 developing AR, VR, and mixed-reality content.

 Section 4: Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1. Culture of Collaboration

 Falmouth actively supports a wide range of collaborations and networks, all designed to
 encourage cross-disciplinary, cross-institutional, and cross-sectoral activity. As Falmouth’s
 research is cohered around our three cross-cutting Research Themes – Creative, Connected
 Communities, Design Thinking and Digital Economy, and their ten underpinning R&I
 Programmes, so too are Falmouth’s extended research networks.

 Open Innovation - the methodology used at Falmouth to encourage staff to work across
 boundaries and collaborate with partners in different sectors, markets, businesses, and
 disciplines. Through our ‘Creative Bridge’ concept, we bring creativity into multi-disciplinary
 partnerships to solve ‘wicked problems’ alongside fellow creatives, as well as engineering,
 scientific, and technology practitioners.

 South West Creative Technology Network (SWCTN) - a consortium for sharing research via a
 series of academic, industry and new talent fellowships and prototype grants, focused on the
 themes of immersion, automation, and data. Funded by the Research England Connecting
 Capabilities Fund, the consortium comprises the University of West of England (UWE),
 Plymouth, Bath Spa and Falmouth, with a membership of over 600. Strongly aligned to
 Falmouth’s 2030 R&I Strategy, the network has exceeded its KPIs across the funding period
 through close collaboration.

 3D3 Centre for Doctoral Training preceding SWCTN, 3D3 laid the foundations for the
 consortium through our close working relationship with UWE and Plymouth to create critical
 mass in the developing a new generation of interdisciplinary practitioner-researchers in the
 South West.

 South West Centre for Excellence in Satellite Applications - Falmouth is the lead for the e-
 health and e-wellbeing strands of this collaboration, supported by Catapult Satellite Applications

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 via the European and UK Space Agencies. The broader consortium includes the Universities of
 Exeter, Aberdeen and the Highlands and Islands; NHS England & Scotland; Cornwall
 Partnership NHS Foundation Trust, Kernow Health and Goonhilly Earth Station.

 Attune - an interdisciplinary consortium comprising clinicians, academics, creative artists and
 support services that addresses the impacts of adverse childhood experiences on the mental
 health of young people. Falmouth provides creative expertise for therapeutic interventions
 involving the visual and performing arts, and especially in the field of serious games. Building on
 the strength of our regional health partnerships, Attune integrates psychiatry, psychology and
 health economics academics from the Universities of Oxford, Leeds, QMUL, UCL and
 Greenwich, along with industry and third-sector partnerships including Aardman Animations and
 the NSPCC.

 Our broader network of health partners includes the Royal Cornwall Hospital Trust; The Cornwall
 Partnership NHS Foundation Trust; Exeter Medical School and Health Education England, most
 recently resulting in a collaboration, which developed the “HowAMI?” digital application
 (Clark & Mankee-Williams, 2020), an in-profession communications challenge addressing the
 rise in doctor-suicide rates nationally. The application enables junior doctors to monitor their own
 well-being and has proven effective, leading to a national roll-out. Falmouth also worked with
 CPNHST on a heartrate and variability/self-harm feasibility study, due to be published in
 the British Medical Journal.

 Falmouth has forged similar and sometimes overlapping networks of partners and collaborators
 through our work in screen, games and digital creativity. Augmented Telegrapher and its follow-
 on project wAVE built on partnerships with Goonhilly Earth Station, Cornwall Museums
 Partnership, C&IoS LEP and Groundwork. The Sound/Image Cinema Lab’s list of partners and
 collaborators includes Film4, BBC, BFI and Screen Cornwall and our leadership of the
 Immersive Business is just one of our collaborations with University of Exeter.

 Other key HEI partners include the University of the Arts London, our PhD validation partner and
 GuildHE Research, a consortium of 30 comparable smaller and specialist HEIs. GuildHE
 Research provides researchers of all stages with opportunities to network and collaborate with
 peers across the UK and from a broad range of disciplines, facilitating activities face-to-face and
 virtually, including an annual doctoral summer school, training events, and opportunities to forge
 new projects and communicate their research.

 4.2. Contribution to the economy and society

 Our R&I Programmes and Themes have contributed to the economy and society through the
 following lenses:
      • Developing new models for business innovation
      • Innovating digital products
      • Contributing to environmental sustainability
      • Responding creatively to rural fragmentation
      • Enhancing health and wellbeing in rural communities

 Developing new models for business innovation

 Launchpad: digital and financial innovation - is formed around development concepts
 emerging from video games development, fused with a methodology starting with a known
 market opportunity to form innovative products and services. The Launchpad model enables
 ideas from small creative businesses to transform into broader creative economy scale-ups.

 Between 2017 and the end of 2020 the programme incorporated 30 firms, and has created 59
 co-founders, including Codices Interactive, one of Creative England’s Top 50 Companies to
 Watch; and the multi-award-winning Data Duopoly, one of just 15 start-ups from over 400 across
 the globe to be named as a finalist for the World Tourism Forum Lucerne’s (WTFL) Start-Up

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Innovation Camp; and GlasData, which impacted the farming sector through data automation and
 easy aggregation. These businesses have an external investor lead valuation of £8.6M.
 Launchpad has attracted inward investment exceeding £1.5m, and has resulted in Falmouth
 being awarded the status of being one of only 20 UKRI University Enterprise Zones.

 Launchpad Outreach: increasing growth capability of SMEs - additional ERDF investment
 has taken Launchpad’s innovative methodology into remote parts of Cornwall and the Isles of
 Scilly. Launchpad Outreach supports SMEs in any sector, developing internal capabilities to
 improve productivity, growth and create jobs in a sustainable manner within local, national and
 international markets.

 Innovating digital products

 MetaMakers: engaging young people in game development - this European Research Area
 project developed new artificial intelligence (AI) technology to help young people engage in
 game design. This was achieved through the invention of ‘fluidic games’, a type of digital game
 where players work alongside an AI agent to shape the mechanics of the game they are playing
 in real time. These games illustrated the connection between technology, creativity, and the role
 of AI in creative acts.

 Commercial impact has been delivered through graduate start-up companies leveraging similar
 technology in a commercially-released game and attracting investment to pursue further R&I in
 the role of AI in game design. Studio Mutiny —a startup originating in the Games Academy—
 published Sai, which sold ~15,000 copies to July 2020, and the company secured £25,000 in
 funding from Transfuser and a further £17,000 in funding from Google. Soria, the first title from
 Polargryph, launching in 2021, benefitted from the company’s exposure to
 Metamakers’ Gamika Technologies platform.

 Augmented Telegrapher: immersive experiences for the heritage sector - this project
 collated creative practitioners from different specialisms: designers, writers, Artificial Intelligence
 specialists, programmers, two- and three-dimensional artists, games designers and haptic
 designers, to reimagine the scope for immersive experiences in the heritage sector. The
 Augmented Telegrapher research delivered first-person experiences that were synonymous with
 gaming, including augmented reality ‘escape rooms’ recreating the vivid experience of being a
 telegrapher at Porthcurno during World War 2, with a similar approach later used at Goonhilly
 Earth Centre.

 South West Creative Technology Network (SWCTN): supporting the development of
 sustainable, inclusive digital products and services – this partnership provided a platform for
 collaboration, development and funding of new ideas from academics, new talent and industry to
 build innovative new digital technologies, e.g. Paul Chaney’s Agroecological Information Model.

 Immersive Business: extending the virtual reach of businesses in rural locations - a
 partnership between Falmouth and The University of Exeter - builds on both universities’ track-
 record of business assists to support Cornish businesses in taking advantage of immersive
 technologies, thereby giving them an opportunity to extend virtual reach, maintain a competitive
 advantage and stay sustainable by opening competitive opportunities, addressing the building,
 retail and micro-businesses.

 Contributing to environmental sustainability

 Bee Brick: addressing the declining bee population – this project (Christman) addressed a
 significant drop in numbers of indigenous single bees, caused by the loss of green spaces. The
 project researched the lifecycle and nesting habits of autonomous bees, in partnership with the
 University of Exeter’s Environment & Sustainability Institute. Research identified distinguishing
 behavioural traits of single bees, and the creation of effective design solutions that address the
 research findings.

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The outcome, a range of bee nesting bricks, had to be produced and implemented at a scale
 that would offset the risk to the native species. The project has achieved B-Corp status and has
 informed UK government policy, at the request of the Minister for the Environment, on the
 protection of rare bee species.

 Lobster Grower 2: creating sustainable seafood - the National Lobster Hatchery (NLH) has
 partnered with Falmouth since 2014, first on Lobster Grower 1 to investigate the potential of
 using sea-based container culture (SBCC) systems as a low-carbon method of rearing lobsters
 with no feed costs. This project —funded by Innovate UK and BBSRC— designed and
 developed a system specifically for rearing juvenile lobsters to a marketable size, and
 established a marine licence for establishing a pilot-scale site.

 Lobster Grower 2, (2016-19) included scientists and researchers from the NLH, the Centre for
 Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture Science (CEFAS) and University of Exeter, and has
 benefited significantly from the design and innovation expertise of the Research and Innovation
 team at Falmouth. The pilot-scale lobster culture site developed by Lobster Grower 2, gathered
 practical, operational, environmental, biological, economic and social data that was used to
 develop an aqua-economic model to encourage and inform future investment.

 Responding creatively to rural fragmentation

 Online Orchestra: creative collaboration in remote communities - this AHRC funded project
 asked how we can leverage network technologies to give musicians who live in remote
 communities the same opportunities to play in an orchestra as those who live in urban areas. In
 parts of the country such as Cornwall, where many people live in geographically remote towns
 and villages, it can be challenging to make music with other people: either there are a shortage
 of musicians living in the area, or the time and expense of travel prevent regular engagement.

 The project designed an online orchestra that allowed people who lived hundreds of miles apart
 to make music together for the first time, and improve their musical timing and technical ability,
 while fostering social and personal skills.

 The Online Orchestra gave its inaugural performance on 12 July 2015, featuring musicians from
 around Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly. The project notably established a patent for the
 technology, which resolves latency issues in online collaborative performances.

 The Sound/Image Cinema Lab: addressing the challenges of regional film production -
 (Morris, Fox, Jenkin, Marshall, Monk, et al, 2015) – this project champions local filmmakers by
 sourcing funding, crew and expertise in script and film production. Within five years the Lab has
 developed a regional ecosystem for rural and disparate voices to reach international audiences.

 The Lab’s most widely acclaimed success, Bait (Jenkin, 2018) capitalised on the larger scale
 of support accrued through earlier projects. The production coordinated collaboration between
 researchers, support staff, students and graduates and the resulting film attracted
 £500,000 domestic box office receipts following its 2019 release (to the point of the
 Covid shutdown).

 The Lab now incorporates a pyramid of regional bodies and stakeholders, partnerships with film
 production companies and organisations including the British Film Institute, Creative England
 and ScreenSkills, alongside mid- to senior-career producers, directors and
 distributors. Productions draw on locally sourced performers, co-ordinated by staff
 researchers working alongside a pool of students and graduates.




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Enhancing health and wellbeing in rural communities

 Connected Health Care: connecting care infrastructure in rural communities - this project
 delivers a secure satellite connected infrastructure between primary and secondary care and
 service users in rural communities. Through this, four e–health applications will be developed for
 the clinical areas of mental health, diabetes and clinical education enabling delivery through
 primary care and community settings. The project will implement a "Test and Learn" approach
 and evaluate the potential clinical and commercial value of a secure satellite connected
 infrastructure in improving quality, accessibility and efficiency within the health sector.

 Cornwall and Scotland (and other rural parts of the world) have ‘dark spots’ with minimal
 bandwidth and limited access to NHS services. This lack of connectivity has an impact on the
 pace, adaptation to, and adoption of technology and digital transformation in health care.

 Connectivity challenges contribute to an increasing digital divide in rural, marginalised
 communities. This project asks if satellite connectivity is possible, feasible, usable, and adequate
 for the delivery of mental health care, diabetes care and clinical education in remote
 communities.

 4.3. Contribution to the research base

 All elements of the following section relate to achievements in the current REF reporting period.

 Awards and prizes

 Falmouth has received numerous awards for individual research outputs and for projects and
 programmes as a whole. The following is a small sample of high-profile accolades earned by
 Falmouth researchers, demonstrating wide-reaching recognition of our research contributions:

 The Sound/Image Cinema Lab - (Fox) that made the films possible won an innovation award
 at the at the University Industry Innovation Network 2020.

 Of the films, Bait (Jenkin) won 9 awards including a 2019 BAFTA award (Best
 Director), the Breakthrough Film Maker at the London Critics Circle Film Awards, and Best
 British Film at the Screen Awards. Wilderness (Fox) yielded 12 awards, including Best
 Screenwriter, Västerås film and Chain NYC film festivals, Best Actress at the Oaxaca Film
 Awards, Mexico and Southampton film festival; best International feature film at Chain and
 Västerås film festivals and best production at Goddess on the Throne film festival, Kosavo,
 Serbia. Orpheus (Canning) won Best Film and the Future Solstice Film Festival 2020, with
 Canning as writer, director and editor on the film.

 Online Orchestra (Rofe) - won the Gold award for Arts and Humanities, and the Silver regional
 award for Europe from the 2018 Reimagine Education Conference, which brought together
 EdTech start-ups, academics, university leadership, teachers, and other stakeholders in the
 future of teaching and learning.

 Launchpad entrepreneurship programme - won the 2017 Guardian University Award for
 Entrepreneurship. Launchpad collected the Silver Award for Europe and Bronze for Presence
 Learning at the 2016 Reimagine Education Conference in Philadelphia.

 Higher Education Video Games Alliance Fellowship - awarded to Professor Tanya
 Krzywinska in 2020. HEVGA Fellows are elected by their peers for their outstanding
 contributions to games-based research and design in Higher Education.

 Further international awards for Games - Dr Ed Powley was awarded ‘Best Paper’ at the
 Proceedings of the 2018 International Conference on Computational Creativity and Dr Michael


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Scott was acclaimed in the ‘Top 5 in 25’ Award for Best ACM Working Group Report Published
 in the last 25 Years, at ACM SIGCSE 2020.

 UK and International Photography awards - Huw Lewis-Jones’ book, The Writer’s Map won
 the 2018 Edward Stanford Award for Illustrated Book of the Year, the 2019 British Book Design
 and Production Awards, London; the 2019 World Fantasy Awards, Los Angeles and a Gold
 Medal at the Motovun Book Awards, Frankfurt.

 Wiley Digital Archive Research Fellowship - Dr Sherezade Garcia-Rangel was awarded the
 fellowship in January 2021. Sherezade was selected from a global pool of applicants, to support
 her work on the historical series On the Hill.

 Advisory Panels, Boards and Committees

 The following is a sample of key positions held by Falmouth researchers on regional, national
 and international Panels, Boards and Committees:
    • Bossey - Vice-Chair for the Association of Events Management Educators;
    • K Brown - Director on the board of Art Dot Earth;
    • Dey - Founder and coordinator of the Solo Contemporary Performance Forum;
    • Hodsdon - an Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion Associate for AdvanceHE;
    • Kemp - Founding artist of Wildworks theatre company;
    • Krzywinska - President of the Digital Games Research Association; Nomination
         Evaluation Panel for DIGRA Outstanding Scholar 2019, Moderating Panel 2020 for
         AHRC College (Programme Committee BEYOND 2020, UKRI AHRC/NEH New
         Directions Panel).
    • McMurdo - Board member for Stills, the National Centre for Photography in Scotland;
    • Monk - Project Lead for Cornwall Public Service Media;
    • Morris - Trustee of the Mark Milsome Foundation, board member of Wildworks theatre
         company and a full member of BAFTA;
    • Saario - Strategic advisory board member of Cornwall Music Education Hub (CMEH) and
         a board member of Cornwall Music Network (CMN);
    • Scott - Site organiser for Global Game Jam (Brunel University)
    • Springer – Elected President of Edcom (the European Institute for Commercial
         Communication Education) and President of its Research Committee.

 Conference hosting and organising

 The university has hosted International conferences representing the breadth of its research
 activity, as the following samples evidence:
     • Joint Conference on Serious Games (Ma, 2010-present) - Ma is the Founding Chair of
          the annual conference, which has been running for over a decade with events in Berlin
          (2014), Huddersfield (2015), Brisbane (2016), Valencia (2017), Darmstadt (2018),
          Arequipa (2019) and virtually online (2020).
     • Fascinate (organised by PGR student Biscoe, 2014) - the university hosted an
          interdisciplinary conference investigating the current and future applications of ubiquitous
          computing technologies in visual and performance arts, games, architecture, craft,
          design and interactive media.
     • Haunted Landscapes (Heholt, 2014) - the first of a number of events hosted by the Dark
          Economies R&I Programme, which include Dark Sound: Destructive Pop (Ferrett,
          2014). The latter marked the genesis of Ferrett’s 2020 Bloomsbury monograph of the
          same name; and Folk Horror (Heholt 2019).
     • Society for the Study of Artificial Intelligence and Simulation of Behaviour
          (Krzywinska, 2019) - Falmouth hosted and organised this annual conference.
     • Digital Transformation and Circular Entrepreneurship International Symposium for
          the British Academy of Management (Cullen, 2020) - hosted online by Falmouth, in
          partnership with the University of Exeter.

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Agile on the Beach - since 2011 Falmouth has hosted this annual conference, which
        attracts over 500 attendees, with the aim of delivering an environment for businesses
        and individuals at all stages of their digital transformation and agile journey to thrive,
        grow and develop.

 Journal and Peer Review

 Researchers submitting to the unit hold a number of Editor-in-Chief roles. These include:
    • Krzywinska, editor-in-chief of Games and Culture (Sage);
    • Ma, editor-in-chief responsible for the serious games section of Entertainment Computing
       (Elsevier);
    • Misiak, editor-in-chief of MAI Feminism & Visual Culture (Falmouth and Gothenburg
       Universities)
    • Clark, founding editor and editor-in-chief of 1000 Words (1000 words photography Ltd);
    • Heholt, editor of Revenant: Critical and Creative Studies of the Supernatural journal
       (Falmouth University);
    • Prior and Rofe co-edited a special edition of the Journal of Music, Technology and
       Education (Intellect)
    • Norman: co-editor for the International Journal of Screendance.

 In addition, Falmouth researchers are frequently peer reviewing for journals and book proposals
 for publishers.

 Book editorship includes:
   • Canning, who co-edited the book ‘European Cinema in the 21st Century: Directions,
       Discourses and Genres’ published in 2020 with Palgrave Macmillan;
   • Heholt, who co-edited the book ‘The Victorian Male Body’ in 2018; co-edited the book
       ‘Gothic British: Dark Places in the Provinces and Margins of the British Isles’ in 2018 and
       was book series editor in 2019 for Key Popular Women Writers.
   • Ma, who co-edited: Serious Games: Proceedings of the Joint International Conference
       on Serious Games, JCSG 2020, Stoke on Trent, UK, 19-20 November 2020 (Springer,
       2020); and co-edited equivalent publications for the 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018
       conferences.
   • Ma, who co-edited Serious Games and Edutainment Applications. Volume 2 (Springer,
       2017)
   • Ma, who co-edited Virtual, Augmented Reality and Serious Games for Healthcare 1
       Springer‐Verlag, 2014).

 Podcasting Convenorship includes:
    • Fox, co-convener of ‘The Cinematologists’, an influential podcast now in its 12th Season
      with over 100 episodes;
    • Garcia-Rangel convenes the podcast series ‘On the Hill’, which won the Wiley Digital
      Archive Research Fellowship;
    • Finnegan writes and produces ‘The Script Department’ podcast, which creates audio
      dramatisations of screenplays written by unproduced writers to showcase their work.

 PGR examination and external supervision

 Falmouth staff regularly act as external examiners for PGR Degrees:
    • University of Adelaide, Australia (Krzywinska and Prior);
    • University of Wellington, NZ (Prior); University of Queensland, Australia (Krzywinska)
       and University of Debrecen, Hungary (Heholt).
    • Universidade de São Paulo, Brazil (Springer)
    • University of Essex and University of York (Krzywinska);
    • University of Exeter (Heholt and Marshall);


                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Queens University Belfast; Goldsmiths, University of London; Liverpool; De Montford;
        Plymouth (Prior);
    •   Brunel University and Canterbury Christ Church University (D Brown);
    •   University of Glasgow (Ma);
    •   University of Huddersfield (Saario)

 Staff were also involved in supervising a range of students at other HEIs, including:
     • University of East London and Leeds University (Springer);
     • Brunel University (Krzywinska);
     • University of East London (D Brown);
     • John Moore’s University, Liverpool (O’Brien);
     • University of Plymouth (Saario);
     • Staffordshire University (Ma),
     • University of the West of England (Braddock-Clarke and Prior).

 Peer review of funding proposals and research outputs

 Falmouth staff are frequently invited to review funding proposals and research outputs for other
 research organisations. Krzywinska, Prior and Whelan were all members of the UKRI Peer
 Review College and Prior was a reviewer for the Austrian Science Fund. Ma is a review expert
 for ESRC, National Institute for Health Research (NIHR), EC (H2020-ICT-2014, H2020-ICT-
 2016, H2020-EIC-FTI-2018-2020 bids and projects), the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific
 Research, French National Research Agency, and Academy of Finland (Natural Sciences and
 Engineering Research Unit, Research Council for Culture and Society). In their capacities as co-
 Investigators for 3D3/NPIF and SWCTN, Krzywinska and Prior have also served on numerous
 panels responsible for the investment of over £8m in relation to those two consortia.

 Promotional panels & REF Review
    • Heholt, Portsmouth REF outputs;
    • Prior, Plymouth and York REF outputs;
    • Prior, UCA, Regents and New Zealand School of Music professorial promotional boards;
    • Krzywinska, University of Waterloo, Canada and University of York professorial boards




                                                                                          Page 19
