Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: 10007140 Birmingham City University
 Unit of Assessment: UoA 12- Engineering

    •   Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview and Research Structure

 The Engineering Department at BCU is an established centre for research and teaching in
 technologies and processes relevant to manufacturing, with additional expertise in applications
 of technology to environmental sustainability and the low carbon agenda. We are one of two
 departments in the School of Engineering and Built Environment (EBE), which alongside the
 School of Computing and Digital Technology (CDT) comprises the Faculty of Computing,
 Engineering and the Built Environment (CEBE).

 Since 1971 we have been key partners with the manufacturing sector of the Midlands. In
 REF2014, our distribution of expertise meant we returned members of our Knowledge-Based
 Engineering (KBE) group as part of the Computing UoA. Now, with 16 researchers holding
 significant responsibility for research (SIGRES), a further nine working towards independent
 researcher status, and 31 doctoral students, we make this return to UoA 12 as a fast-developing
 research cluster in our right. The recruitment of 14 talented researchers during the REF period
 has allowed us to bring fresh thinking to a group of staff rich in industry experience and
 partnership working, and to build the impact of our work nationally and internationally.

 Our research directorate is chaired by Athwal as CEBE’s Associate Dean for Research and
 Innovation, with Fourlaris as UoA lead and Melville, Proverbs and Ioannidou leading on
 impacts and outputs. Oversight of Research Degrees is provided by a senior Faculty researcher
 who is returned to UoA13. The directorate is supplemented by a Technical Officer. Its brief is to
 set strategy and operational plans, and to consider the allocation of funds for equipment
 purchases, faculty-funded PhD scholarships, and travel and conference costs.

 Our cluster consists of four thematic groupings:

 Advanced Materials and Manufacturing, led by Krzyzanowski, covers three core areas,
 namely (i) Materials: Processing and Design (ii) Engineering Systems, Logistics and Supply
 Chain Management, and (iii) Structural Integrity, with particular focus on multidisciplinary
 approaches to material design, innovation and intelligent manufacturing. Research within the
 first area (Krzyzanowski and Ward) is focused on the role of complex physical processes in the
 optimisation of additive manufacturing and metal forming processes, including the processing of
 polymers and composite materials. Key to their work is the development of new physically-based
 multiscale modelling methodologies for material characterisation and design, including
 microstructure development, fracture and surface finish aspects; and linking them with the global
 mechanical response of the developed material structures. The second area (Orifaige, Annaz
 and Kalaitzi) takes in manufacturing systems, robotics and haptics, supply chain management
 and procurement, with a particular focus on sustainability, resource efficiency and emerging
 technologies such as blockchain and EV supply chains, as well as the governance of inter-
 organisational relationships in supply chains. The third area (Fourlaris, Krzyzanowski, Ward
 and Salami) studies the application of new materials in engineering structures, such as novel
 steel automotive product development, finite element modelling, constitutive material modelling,
 structural dynamics and health monitoring, and earthquake engineering.

 Sensors and Control, led by Wu, has gained international recognition for research leadership
 in sensors and their application in a variety of industrial environments. The group promotes both
 basic and applied research into digital sensor and communication technologies and
 methodologies. It comprises of two sub-groups: Smart Sensing and Communication; and
 Embedded System and Robotics. The first (Wu, Ward and Annaz) explores smart sensor
 technologies, energy harvesting, low power communication, computational intelligence and the

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 industrial internet of things. The second (Wu, Annaz and Gueniat) specialises in mechatronics
 and robotics, digital signal processing and embedded systems.

 Computational Modelling, led by Hasan, focuses on analytical, numerical and mathematical
 methods. Current activities include Computational Fluid Dynamics for thermo-fluid systems and
 computational engineering-enabled design optimisation (Hasan, Khatir and Perera) , fluid
 structure interaction (Flynn and Salami), and mathematical modelling of control systems
 (Gueniat). The group’s modelling expertise lends itself to multidisciplinary collaboration with the
 other Engineering research groups to tackle projects such as heat flow in automotive
 applications, hydrological water flow, design of microalgae cultivation systems, and the control of
 electrical microgrids.

 Global Environmental Challenges (Interdisplinary Group with UoA13), led by Melville,
 explores issues related to energy and water, scoping long-term, sustainable solutions in
 partnership with industry, businesses, citizens and experts. The Bioresource and Bioeconomy
 subgroup (Melville and Perera) works on Biomass cultivation/processing (e.g. algae) for energy
 and high value products and materials, as well as Bioremediation of water and wastewater by
 characterisation, pre-treatment/ pre-processing and optimisation of technologies for Anaerobic
 Digestion. The adoption of these technologies is guided by Techno-Economic Assessment/ Life
 Cycle Assessment of technologies and processes, Socio-technical systems analysis and
 Decision support systems to encourage supply chain integration. The Water, Environment and
 Communities subgroup (Proverbs, Ioannidou, Fourlaris, Wu, Flynn, Perera and Hasan)
 researches advanced technical and analytical tools to address a range of complex challenges
 facing the water industry. Their goal is to improve the quality, supply and management of water
 through study of hydraulics and fluid dynamics modelling, water distribution and engineering,
 and water quality testing and analysis, including tracer studies for contaminants and pollutants.


 Research Objectives and Achievements 2014-20

 Following REF2014, we set ourselves five key aims: (i) achieve critical mass in the Engineering
 cluster such as to permit an independent return to REF2021 (ii) leverage the University’s
 developing infrastructure – as explained in 5a – to increase the volume and range of external
 grant capture (iii) build a sustainable doctoral community to encourage the exchange of ideas
 and nurture the next generation of academic talent (iv) mobilise impact opportunities to tackle
 major societal challenges, and (v) nurture a culture within the UoA based on values of strict
 integrity, peer review, and career development.

 Table 1 outlines our achievements against each aim:

  Aim                              Achievement
  Achieve critical mass in         This submission has been facilitated by targeted recruitment
  cluster                          campaigns in 2015, 2017 and 2019 for research talent,
                                   leading to the appointment of 14 staff qualifying for SIGRES;
                                   joining exisiting group of two research professors (Melville
                                   and Ward) and nine emerging researchers
  Volume/range of grant capture    Indicative projects to the value of more than £1.5m include
                                   Insight-Connecting Autonomous Vehicles-UKRI with Ward,
                                   £388K , Alg-Ad,-European Union-Interreg North West with
                                   Melville, £269K, IOT4WIN-Internet of Things for Water
                                   Innovation Networks, European Union-Horizon 2020, with
                                   Wu, £458K, Lynemouth Mine Lagoon Hydraulic Modelling,
                                   The Coal Authority with Ioannidou and Fourlaris, £106K).
                                   There has also has been significant KTP Income (Brandauer-
                                   Innovate UK KTP with Ward and Krzyzanowski, £152K,
                                   Wilmat-Innovate UK with Ward, £203K).


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Doctoral community                13 completions in this cycle compared with 4 in 2014, with a
                                    current doctoral population of 31, facilitated by studentships
                                    from Faculty (8), University (2), and Industry (3, part-funded)
  Impact and challenges             ICSs in areas of international relevance (transforming waste
                                    to energy, and flood management); numerous workshops
                                    with regional stakeholders such as HSSMI consultancy,
                                    water agencies, JLR, Meridian Lightweighting, etc
  Research culture                  New internal/external peer review system covering outputs
                                    and grant applications; regular mentoring and co-authorship
                                    by senior staff; seminar series within and between research
                                    groups; support from developed BCU infrastructure as
                                    described in REF5a.

 Our achievements have been facilitated partly by collaboration with companies, public sector
 organisations, but above all with other research groups in and beyond the University. There is
 overlapping membership and cross-cluster working with all the research groups in the
 School of Computing and Digital Technology: that is, Data Analytics and AI, Cyber Physical
 Systems, and the Digital Media Technology (DMTLab). Mentoring via work-in-progress sessions
 has supported the writing of publications in our cluster meetings, while the peer review system
 cited in Table 1 has fostered greater maturity and volume in our research, as evidenced in the
 range of work and the number of journal publications produced by Centre of Engineering
 members. Staff returned to REF2021 deposited 128 journal, 51 conference and 18 other outputs
 (such as book chapters and technical reports) in the BCU Open Access repository during this
 REF period, including the 40 journal outputs submitted for assessment.

 Impact and interdisciplinary working

 A major facilitator of interdisciplinary working for our cluster is the STEAM (Science, Technology,
 Engineering, Arts and Mathematics) programme, a £70m University and LEP initiative dating
 from 2016. As noted in REF5a, the project is specifically designed to support work across
 disciplinary boundaries. Our cluster has been a leading participant in STEAM initiatives such as
 the STEAM conference, STEAM doctoral scholarships and STEAM fellows schemes. This
 strand of activity will intensify when BCU STEAMhouse Phase 2 opens in December 2021 with
 parts of the CEBE Faculty being relocated there, sharing it with incubation spaces and other
 established corporate tenants. As REF5a explains, STEAMhouse India will open up new
 opportunities for international collaboration.

 In keeping with one of the missions of our University (the self-styled University for Birmingham)
 in fostering economic growth regionally, nationally and internationally, much of our research is
 demand-led, entailing interdisciplinary working with industry partners and research users.
 Accordingly, impact most often arises from the co-creation of research carried out in those
 partnerships. As described in REF5a, partnership development is supported by the University’s
 Research, Innovation, Enterprise and Employability (RIEE) professional service department,
 specialists in co-ordinating cross-institutional support for Knowledge Transfer Partnership
 development and delivery, commercial support for IP, commercialisation and consultancy, and
 leads on public and community engagement, including events and outreach. Academic staff are
 thereby assisted with pre-award collaborative funding and the brokering of research-led
 agreements across local authorities, LEPs, Chambers of Commerce, stakeholder groups and
 private sector industry partners.

 CEBE has the benefit of four dedicated RIEE staff to support impact development: an Impact
 development support officer, a KTP development officer and two partnership managers, one of
 whom specialises in the manufacturing sector. In addition to mentoring from experienced staff,
 expert training in developing impact has been delivered by Saskia Walcott (Walcott Comms) and
 Professor Mark Reed (University of Newcastle).

 Industry liaison has played a key role in the translation of research into real-world solutions.

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our Water Subgroup organised two day-long workshops (2018 and 2019) with regional
 stakeholders in the Water industry to identify areas for collaboration and impact. The
 Birmingham office of manufacturing consultancy HSSMI (averaging 6 staff) was hosted by the
 Engineering Department from 2016 to 2019; as well as a number of student internships and and
 employment opportunities, this led to a successful joint bid with JLR to the Advanced Propulsion
 Centre for the £10M value Perseus project. The Institute of Technology and Perseus projects
 (see Section 3) have facilitated industry visits and workshops at strategic regional industrial
 partners such as JLR, Continental Engineering Services and Bosch Thermotechnology, leading
 to ongoing exploration of KTP funded projects. A series of visits and joint workshops with the
 UK’s largest magnesium caster, Meridian Lightweighting Technologies, led to the joint
 publication of a book and the development of an interdisciplinary project with researchers from
 the School of Computing and Digital Technology, and a £3M automotive lightweighting bid to
 APC that was shortlisted to interview stage.

 Our two selected impact case studies demonstrate the way our approach to impact has
 translated into reach and relevance.

 Melville’s case study is ‘Mobilising the Bio-economy: Transforming waste to energy processes
 and practices’. Here, research into methods for optimising the anerobic digestion of organic
 matter (particularly algae) has been used to design more effective treatments and operating
 plants by working directly with the multinational Doosan group in Europe, as well as a smaller
 bio-engineering design company (Kingdom Bioenergy) in India, and with fishing communities
 (via the Indonesian Seaweed Association) in Indonesia.

 The second case study, focusing on work by Proverbs, is ‘Establishing Property Flood
 Resilience (PFR) in Flood Risk Management’. Here, research has established new technical
 insights and revealed the effectiveness and benefits of property flood resilience. As part of a
 multi-disciplinary team, Proverbs provided the main technical input whilst others co-ordinated
 the co-production (Collingwood Environmental Planning) and provided behavioural (MDA
 Consultants) and economic expertise (UWE). The project took an action research approach,
 working with affected communities. The findings have driven Environmental Agency policy,
 leading to the implementation of resilient technologies in thousands of homes across the UK.

 Research Integrity

 Our research strategy is supported by robust and rigorous processes across the Faculty to
 ensure our research endeavours and activity are held to the highest standards in terms of
 compliance with ethical obligations and standards, while ensuring integrity with regard to legal
 and professional frameworks. CEBE has a well-established ethics committee which stipulates
 that ‘All those engaged with research have a duty to consider how the work they undertake, host
 or support, impacts on the research community and on wider society’ in a way that is ethically
 secure. All our research projects must receive ethical approval prior to commencement. Integrity
 is maintained in line with the Concordat on Open Research Data, and receives support from the
 designated Open Access Officer, as set out in REF5a.

 Future Strategic aims (2021-2027)

 During the current REF period we have built a strong foundation of discipline-based and
 interdisciplinary research, based on defined sub-groups that have produced outputs of
 increasing significance and attracted growing numbers of doctoral students. For the next cycle,
 we intend to build on that foundation as follows:

 •   Consolidate and continue to grow these groups via recruitment and development of our
     current emerging researchers (50% increase both in staff with SIGRES (to 24) and PhD
     students (to 45) and more than 100% increase in PhD completions (to 30).


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Increase the vitality and quality of the research groups’ operation and activities by
     systematically adopting best practice from within the University and the wider sector.
 •   Be recognised as partners of choice for interdisciplinary projects in Manufacturing (with a
     growing digital focus), and the evolving Green Economy (with a growing focus on
     Electrification), and through such projects increasing research income by 100%.
 •   Increase the reach and significance of our research and impact activities by greater
     engagement and leadership within BCU STEAMhouse to build multi-disciplinary projects,
     including with STEAMhouse India (see section 4) for international activities.


     2. People

 Recruitment

 Crucial to the achievements of our five strategic aims was the recruitment activity outlined in
 Section 1. In this cycle we made five strategic leadership appointments: Fourlaris joined us from
 Swansea University to strengthen research expertise in Advanced Metallic Materials and
 Structural Integrity, and provide overall research leadership in Engineering; Krzyzanowski was
 recruited from Sheffield University to bring leadership in Advanced Materials Manufacturing
 research; Oraifige joined from the University of Derby to bring his expertise in manufacturing
 operations and to provide overall academic leadership as Head of the Engineering Centre; Wu
 joined from Staffordshire University to provide leadership in the applications of Sensor
 technologies; while
 Proverbs moved from the University of West England to provide leadership to a wide group of
 researchers in the EBE School working on water-related topics.

 Those leadership appointment were complemented by four mid-career appointments: Hasan
 and Perera joined us from Northumbria University, bringing their expertise on nano-fluids and
 providing leadership in the area of Computational Modelling; Khatir moved from the University
 of Leeds, strengthening our CFD expertise as well as bringing extensive experience in industrial
 collaborations; and Annaz joined us from Institut Technologi Brunei, bringing expertise in
 Mechatronics. A further five junior researchers joined us during the cycle (Ioannidou, Salami,
 Flynn, Gueniat, and Kalaitzi).

 With our two exisiting research professors, Melville (engineering solutions for bioresources) and
 Ward (materials, sensor development and physics-based modelling), together with a group of
 nine emerging researchers mentored by senior colleagues, we now have a robust, balanced
 team covering all career stages and nurturing a growing group of doctoral students. Because of
 the volume of recruitment during this REF cycle, team working and themetic coherence within
 research groups have been prioritised, with an onward impact on industry secondments and
 sabbaticals. Nevertheless, we remain in a strong position to grow to greater maturity during the
 next REF cycle.

 Staff development strategy

 The primary aims of our staff development strategy are to:

     •   maintain and expand a vibrant and supportive research community
     •   make transparent allocation of workload and responsibilities
     •   support academic staff at each stage of their research careers, including clear
         progression pathways
     •   provide the mechanism to support emerging researchers who are already recognised as
         practitioners/enterprise active to pursue doctoral study and develop practice-based
         research.



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Led by the the UoA Research Directorate and reporting to the EBE Research Committee, this
 strategy has been operationalized through the Research Group structure that promotes the
 cross-fertilisation of ideas, via a variety of dissemination mechanisms including hosting biweekly
 seminars, research group meetings, attendance and active participation in symposia and
 conferences.

 Workshops are organised to support colleagues in peer review activity, practice based research,
 producing research outputs and applying for career progression. Staff benefit from a two-stage
 review process for both funding applications and publication submissions: firstly in a peer-to-
 peer exchange, both receiving and giving advice, and secondly gaining feedback from expert
 review by senior colleagues and external advisors.

 We actively encourage participation of staff at every career stage in all aspects of the Research
 Groups’ activities, promoting an open, transparent and collegiate atmosphere. Where possible,
 inhibiting hierarchies are diminished by the co-location of group members in our open office
 accommodation. We provide transparent annual competitions for all researchers to apply for
 their projects to be awarded Faculty-funded PhD Studentships (typically 10 annually throughout
 CEBE) and for the Faculty Small Research Equipment scheme (typically £65k per annum). All
 researchers including PGRs can also apply to our Conferences and Networking Mobility Scheme
 (typically £20k per annum) for consideration at monthly Research Committee meetings.

 Our research culture is maintained by a transparent allocation of research workloads and
 responsibilities. As outlined in the REF Institutional Code of Practice, all academic staff complete
 an annual Personal Research Review that is considered by the Research Directorate (all of
 whom have taken Avoidance of Unconscious Bias training). Judged against University-defined
 criteria, staff qualifying as having Significant Responsibility for Research (SIGRES) are awarded
 0.25FTE, 0.35FTE or 0.5FTE of their time to devote to research activities depending on
 demonstrated research productivity and career seniority. The total salary cost in 2019/20 of this
 allowance for the 16 staff with SIGRES was £395,440. Research time allocation is a ring-fenced
 entitlement recognised through BCU’s Workload Allocation Model (WAM) framework. Additional
 time is allocated to account for PhD supervisions, externally funded research, knowledge
 exchange projects, pilot project awarding funding, or sabbaticals. This model protects research
 time as a departmental priority.

 Additional support is tailored to the needs of staff at different stages of their research careers, as
 follows:

 New Staff: All of the Department’s research active academic staff members are involved in
 recruitment. Newly recruited staff are therefore quickly inducted and aligned in appropriate
 Research Groups so that they are able to fully participate in the cluster’s research culture. All
 new staff are assigned a mentor through research group support activities, and supported to
 produce annual professional research development plans. New staff are given priority in the
 consideration of Faculty-funded PhD studentships and access to the university supervisor
 training programme.

 Emerging Researchers: Those who do not have a PhD are mentored by senior research group
 colleagues to develop a proposal; currently, two staff are undertaking a PhD with their fees being
 funded by the Faculty and 0.2FTE time allowance. Academic staff with a prior career in industry
 are mentored to help them build upon their experience and develop a research career,
 potentially via the PhD by publications route. During the REF cycle, two originally appointed as
 Assistant Lecturer (a teaching grade) were promoted to Lecturer, primarily on the basis of their
 research achievement.

 Early Career Researchers are strongly encouraged to present their work in Research Faculty
 Seminars and Workshops; they have access to a Research Group based mentoring scheme and
 are targeted for co-authored outputs and funding applications.


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Mid-Career Researchers /Associate Professor/Research Professors are supported through
 bespoke workshops (including for promotion and professorial confirmation application),
 underpinned by a mutually supportive Faculty-wide mentoring scheme. A number of sub-groups
 have formed within the established research groups; emerging leaders of each sub-group are
 coached to succeed the current group leads or develop the sub-group into an independent
 research group. During the census period, one conferment has been made to Research
 Professor status.

 Research Students

 As noted in Section 1, scaling up our postgraduate community has been a key strategic aim,
 with a view to developing our intellectual capital, strengthening ties with industry, and nurturing
 the next generation of Engineering academics from the most diverse backgrounds possible. At
 the census point in 2014 our doctoral community stood at a mere three students; now it has
 grown to 31. Then, we declared four completions; in the current cycle, we have had 13. That
 improvement has been driven by substantial investment. Each year over this cycle, the Faculty
 has committed £530k to support full bursaries for 20 students, as well as a further 30 fee waivers
 or part-waivers.

 PGR Recruitment is pursued through a variety of channels: publicising opportunities via
 academic mailing lists, publicity to current UG and Masters students (helped by strong growth of
 our taught Master’s programmes during this period); advertisements in official websites
 (findaphd.com and jobs.ac.uk) and via industrial partners. Postgraduate research students are
 recruited nationally and internationally, and are funded through a range of mechanisms including
 Faculty and University (STEAM) scholarships. Formal applications pass through through a
 review by two academic members of staff to interview by three academics, including one
 independent of the proposed supervisors.

 The PGR lifecycle is managed by the Director of Research Degrees and administratively
 supported by three Faculty-based research administrators from the University’s Doctoral
 Research College (DRC). All students undergo a University-led induction that then divides into
 Faculty and School events. All new PGR students undergo formal research training as part of
 our career development support to them. Within the School, they are required to complete a
 PGCert in Research Methods which covers generic and engineering specific research skills.
 Additional generic training is provided via the DRC, which has a wide range of courses related to
 research and personal development. All PGR students are allocated a supervisory team
 comprising a first supervisor, one or more second supervisors and in some cases additional
 external (industrial) advisors. Beyond their supervisory team students attend workshops with,
 and have regular contact with, the Director of Research Degrees, who is available to them for
 additional academic and pastoral support. Support is also available from the DRC and from the
 University’s Education Development Service (EDS).

 All PGR students are offered opportunities to develop their teaching skills and supplement their
 income through Visiting Lecturer and Demonstrator schemes. Training is provide through
 dedicated Teaching for PGRs modules and through training within the School (providing subject
 specific guidance, for example in running lab sessions).

 We view our PGR students as full members of our research community. All doctoral students are
 provided with a desktop or laptop computer and a desk within the same open office area as the
 academic staff and leader of their research group. This ensures that they are fully immersed in
 the workings and culture of their group, and facilitates opportunities for research discussions
 with fellow students and academic staff further to those that take place in scheduled supervision
 sessions. Students regularly present their research at the monthly research seminars, and
 participate in Faculty open days. Funds are made available on a competitive basis for students
 to attend conferences. Each one of our doctoral students has been funded to attend at least one
 conference during their studies.


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Further support is provided by PGRNet, a University-wide network of PGR students. A student
 rep from our research cluster is appointed to represent student issues to DRC staff, the Director
 of Research Strategy and most crucially at Faculty Research Environment and Degrees
 Committee.
 PhD supervisors are required to participate in the Faculty’s supervisor development programme
 before being eligible to supervise. This ranges from attending a supervisor development day,
 through to undertaking the University’s Communities of Practice supervisor training programme,
 which results in a SEDA-accredited qualification.

 Full-time PGR students submit progress reports at 12 months, 24 months and 30 months, with
 six-monthly reporting thereafter until completion. At the end of each academic year, FT PGR
 students undergo a formal assessment for progression, involving a written report, oral
 presentation and a viva voce examination by two independent assessors. Students who have
 difficulty at this stage are proactively supported in developing and delivering a research and
 study plan, overseen by the Director of Studies and the DRC. Arrangements for part-time
 students are similar but with appropriately longer timeframes. PRES results over successive
 years indicate strong levels of satisfaction with our various arrangements for supporting doctoral
 students.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

 The School has a strong commitment to equality, diversity, and inclusion and is in full
 compliance with established EDI principles. The University’s EDI Committee was set up to
 establish good practice across all Faculties. For CEBE, it is chaired by the Associate Dean for
 Student Learning Experience & Academic Quality, and has representatives from all staff and
 student levels. The group meets monthly and leads on initiatives to address diversity issues
 locally and in the sector. The Faculty supports and implements EDI policies in Employment
 Policy, Trans Policy, the Equal Opportunities Policy, Maternity, Paternity, and Adoption Leaves
 for all staff, whether research or teaching focused. Alongside the EDI committee, School staff
 are encouraged and supported to engage with groups within the University such as the Black,
 Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) Steering group, the Disabled Steering group, the Mental
 Health and Well-being Network, and the LGBT+ Staff Network.

 In line with BCU’s code of practice, all engineering academic staff may apply for SIGRES status,
 including WAM remission and resources to pursue a research career. Applications are assessed
 by colleagues who have undertaken Advance-HE EDI training (including Avoidance of
 Unconscious Bias). As noted above, the same training is provided to our internal REF peer-
 review panels, which include a balance of senior (professorial and reader level) and junior
 researchers, aiming for gender and ethnicity inclusion wherever possible.

 Among Cat-A staff in CEBE, 40% have identified as BAME, higher than the BCU average of
 around 25%; while 5.6% have declared a disability, which is close to the BCU average of 5.2%.
 Meanwhile 76% of Cat-A CEBE staff are male compared to the BCU average of 48%.
 Gender equality is a particular issue in the discipline of engineering which, especially in the
 manufacturing related domains, is very male-dominated. We make significant efforts to redress
 the balance. BCU was awarded Athena SWAN Bronze Institutional award in recognition of its
 commitment to advancing gender equality through a four-year Action Plan (2016-2020). As a
 Faculty, CEBE is currently applying for a departmental Athena SWAN award. The School has
 encouraged and supported our female academics to participate in women leadership
 development programme such as the Aurora Leadership Program funded by Higher Education
 Academy. We also seek to ensure that our internal processes and culture are conducive to
 creating an environment in which women engineers can prosper and reach senior positions. We
 require that gender diversity issues are explicitly considered at all appointment and promotion
 panels, while flexible and part-time working is supported for parental/caring responsibilities.
 BCU’s Programme for Women Achieving Excellence in Research (PoWER) provides a series of
 monthly sessions aiming to inspire and support female academics, building their skills,
 knowledge and confidence to increase research capacity and capability.

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Out of our 16 staff submitted to REF, four are women: two professors (Melville and Wu) and two
 Lecturers (Ioannidou and Kalaitzi). Other female staff hold related senior academic leadership
 roles: Professor Hanifa Shah is the Pro-Vice-Chancellor & Executive Dean for CEBE, while
 Laura Leyland is Head of the Department of Engineering.


     3. Income, infrastructure and facilities:

 Strategies for research income generation

 As noted in Section 1, our strategies for research and impact are intrinsically linked to the
 preponderance of our research that is co-created with industry and end-users. The same link is
 reflected in our funding and income generation methods. The Research Groups provide centres
 of disciplinary excellence, whilst our defined Impact Areas help interdisciplinary teams to
 coalesce to address industrial and societal issues.

 Impact Areas

 CEBE has developed three cross-Faculty Impact Areas: Digital Productivity in Manufacturing
 and Construction; Smart Cities and Sustainable Environments; and Smart Health. Our research
 cluster has provided leadership in the first two of those areas. Each Impact Area has at least two
 co-directors from across the Faculty, a designated business development support manager from
 the University’s RIEE Service, and an impact representative from each research group in the
 Faculty. Each Impact Area has a responsibility to:

            •   Establish a strategy for funding and impact in the innovation area based on
                research groups’ expertise
            •   Carry out business development activities, engaging especially with regional,
                organisations such as West Midlands Combined Authority, Birmingham City
                Council, Birmingham and Black Country LEPs and Chambers of Commerce,
                Engineering Employers Federation, Jaguar Land Rover, Rolls Royce, JCB.
            •   Create and maintain a pipeline of funded projects
            •   Monitor and run innovation projects.
 This Research and Impact Strategy relies and delivers applied research close to market needs
 and that of the industrial sector, as typified by the capture of Innovate UK grants and especially
 KTPs. Four KTP projects with a cumulative £587k of value to BCU were started and completed
 during the REF cycle. The partner companies enjoyed, as a result, improved products,
 processes and profitability. The four projects were as follows:

 •   Brandauer, 2014 to 2015, KEEN grant funding of £21000; then 2016 to 2018, KTP grant
     funding of £172,033, to develop new press tool concepts through the application of advanced
     materials and design processes (Ward and Krzyzanowski)
 •   Surface Transforms, 2015-2016, grant funding of £59,543 to explore innovative solutions that
     reduce automotive and aerospace ceramic disc wear rates through benchmarking of existing
     designs, advanced material modelling and onboard wear sensing. (Adrian Cole and Hossein
     Saidpour, who have since left BCU)
 •   Nicklin, 2015 to 2016, grant funding of £152,235 to develop and implement new innovative
     optimal transit package design service. (Hossein Saidpour and Craig Chapman, who have
     since left BCU)



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Wilmat Limited, 2019 to 2020, grant funding of £203,249 to design, develop and exploit
     advanced low-cost sensor and control systems for enhanced safety and efficiency of remote
     controlled mobile lifting and handling equipment (Ward and Oraifige).

 As well as supporting these small to medium sized companies, our cluster has also engaged
 with major regional Engineering companies, as follows:

 •   Advanced Propulsion Centre funded Perseus – Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) EDU Manufacture
     –2017 to 2020; project value £10,000,000, grant to BCU of £199,989. Alongside colleagues
     from the School of Computing and Digital Technology, Oraifige, Gueniat and Krzyzanowski
     are working with JLR and their machine tool suppliers (JW Froelich, Fives, Mapal and
     Horizon Instruments) and manufacturing consultants (MTC and HSSMI) on the Perseus
     project on methods to support the transition to Electric Drive Units for JLR and their supply
     chain.
 •   Innovate UK (ref 102583) funded INSIGHT - Connected Autonomous Vehicles, 2016 to
     2019; project value £2,209,554, with grant to BCU of £387,539. Partnering with Westfield
     Sportscars, Fusion Processing, Conigital and Heathrow Enterprises to develop and assess
     the operation of existing autonomous vehicles for safe, slow speed operation on pedestrian
     areas and pavements. (Ward)
 •   Rolls Royce grant of £42,171 to support PhD Studentship, 2016 to 2019, in advanced cost
     models for application in composite aero-engine components (Craig Chapman, as above).

 Engagement in these projects, with both small and large companies, serves to inform the
 Research Groups of the key strategic needs in manufacturing related industry, and thus to
 fertilise topics and priorities in their research agendas, not least by directing the choice and
 definition of projects offered for PhD recruitment.

 Some of the above projects, especially Perseus, contribute to low carbon research, where we
 have been awarded further funding to support our sustainability agenda:

 •   EU Horizon 2020 (ref 765921) IOT4WIN (Internet of Things for Water Innovation Networks);
     project value £638,427,with a grant to BCU of £458,152, to study smart sensing and trusted
     communication with energy limited heterogeneous devices in IoT enabled urban water
     environments. (Wu)
 •   EU Interreg North West Europe Alg-AD; project value £4,443,234, grant to BCU of £268,888,
     2017 to 2021, working with nine partners to develop new technology that can take excess
     waste nutrients produced from anaerobic digestion of food and farm waste to cultivate algal
     biomass for animal feed and other products of value (Melville)
 •   British Council/Newton Fund MacroBio – Evaluating the Valorisation of Macroalgae Biomass
     in Indonesia project , 2019-2020; project value £111,448, with BCU grant of £62,919 23
     (Melville)
 •   The Coal Authority - total project value and grant value to BCU of £106,490, 2019 to 2020;
     Lynemouth Mine Lagoon Hydraulic Modelling, (Ioannidou and Fourlaris)
 •   Another notable award is from the Diamond Light Source (UK's national synchrotron facility);
     funding for 2 PhD Studentships from total project value £198,000, with grant to BCU of
     £87,184, (2014 to 2017); Optimisation of Monochromator crystal configuration for next
     generation Synchrotron Energies; and (2020 to 2023) Time resolved experimentation with
     acoustically levitated and manipulated samples (Ward).

 Overall income earned by our UoA during this REF cycle amounts to £1.54m, while the amount
 of grant capture is £2.4m, however the scale of the projects involved is better indicated by the
 total value of more than £18m.

 Facilities




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Those funded projects and the many related PhD projects ongoing in our cluster are supported by
 excellent Engineering research facilities in the Millennium Point building. In 2016, a University-
 funded £6.5 million re-furbishment provided a new maker area, engineering labs, and sundry
 additional equipment. We have two fully commissioned Engine test cells with associated ventilation
 and safety features, equipped with 340 kW fully transient dynamometer, exhaust gas analysis both
 pre and post after treatment system including Signal Group Analysers in 3 racks with heated
 sample systems, Sierra BG-3 particulate mini-tunnel and AVL 415S smoke meter.

 The Environmental Lab, home to the Bioresource and Bioeconomy research sub group, is divided
 into three main areas: a wet lab/pilot facility, a fully equipped analytical suite, and a microbiological
 lab offering state of the art analysis and testing of environmental samples, as well as scientific
 evaluation of lab scale and pilot scale technologies and processes. Facilities include a 600 litre
 photobioreactor and an analytical suite for measuring a range of physical, organic and inorganic
 parameters and featuring x-ray fluorescence, GCMS, calorimetery, spectrophotometer and
 microscopy technologies.

 Metal machining facilities have benefitted from £420,000 invested in seven new machines from
 XYZ Machine Tools. There is a state of the art scanning electron microscope. There is also a
 MakerSpace equipped with a laser cutter, 3D printers, and a variety of electronic components such
 as motion, proximity, and humidity sensors. Further labs provide access to PCB and solder facilities
 as well as electronic equipment for signal measurement and analysis.

 Our Engineering design facilities are supported by global technology providers such as PTC and
 Technosoft. They provide access, for research purposes, to computer aided design, product
 lifecycle management and knowledge-based engineering software. Cross-Faculty initiatives with
 Computing have led to the establishment of high-performance computing facilities (with an
 associated Faculty investment in excess of £100k), dedicated to computational research both for
 UoA11 and UoA12.

 In 2020 our partnership in the establishment of the Department of Education funded Greater
 Birmingham & Solihull Institute of Technology (with associated funding in excess of £1.1m for
 capital equipment) has led to the commissioning of state of the art research facilities on additive
 manufacturing, so allowing 3D printing of a variety of complex alloys (£312K) and upgrades for
 our engine test cells to accommodate testing of electric drivetrains (£500K). The remainder of
 the funds are to be spent on a range of equipment including a metallurgical microscope, a
 machine tool heat shrink cooling system, a split zone furnace, and PCB machinery including a
 Pick and place/Reflow oven and a 3D scanner. The Institutue of Technology is a major
 collaborative undertaking between ourselves, Aston University, Solihull College and University
 Centre, Bosch Thermotechnology, Salts Healthcare, Continental Engineering Services,
 Hydraforce, Malthouse Engineering, and Alucast.



         4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 We have actively implemented a number of policies and mechanisms that facilitate the
 development and success of research collaborations, networks and partnerships, for the greater
 good of our discipline and its multiple economic and social impacts:

     •   Dedicated partnership and engagement managers within RIEE who provide intelligence
         and support engagement with research partners on a regional, national, EU and now with
         a wider international emphasis.
     •   Organisation of workshops and industrial visits with industry and other stakeholders in
         research group interest areas
     •   Regular opportunities for faculty funding for conferences, and international study and
         field visits.


                                                                                                   Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our growing research culture has brought about a large number of collaborative research
 projects with national and international reach. 87% of the research projects cited here involve
 national collaborations, while 13% involve at least one international collaborator.

 Collaboration and Manufacturing

 As noted in Section 1, a core feature of our mission is to support the manufacturing sector. To
 that effect we have formed research collaborations with companies in all areas of manufacturing
 supply chains. Our partners have included Rolls Royce, Jaguar Land Rover, JW Froehlich, Fives
 Landis, Mapal, Horizon Instruments, Manufacturing Technology Centre (MTC), HSSMI,
 Brandeur, Surface Transforms, Nicklin Transit Packaging, Wilmat Limited, Westfield Sportscars,
 Fusion Processing, Conigital. Major projects of this nature are described in Section 3.
 Manufacturing-based partnerships have been formed via the work of Krzyzanowski with
 Sheffield Forgemasters and the Universities of Sheffield, Birmingham, Manchester, AGH
 University of Science and Technology, Cracow, Poland and University of Technology of Troyes,
 France.


 As noted in Section 1, STEAMhouse India, based in Ludhiana, will be a major focus for future
 collaborative work in the international sphere. The University has established a BCU India Group
 to co-ordinate links with this increasingly important economy. One of its earliest outcomes is a
 strong relationship since 2019 with the Hero Group, the world’s largest (by volume)
 manufacturers of bicycles and motorcycles. STEAMhouse India will be located close to Hero’s
 manufacturing base and will draw on research and innovation expertise from our cluster to
 support their supply chain and the wider manufacturing sector in their region. To support future
 research at this Institute this UoA has developed collaborations with several universities in the
 same region, including the Indian Institute of Technology Ropar, Panjab University, Lovely
 Professional University and Chandigarh University.

 Collaboration and Low Carbon

 Support for projects that pursue sustainability and low carbon is key to our mission. Here we
 collaborate with a multitude of organisations enjoying extensive international reach. Major
 projects of this nature are described in Section 3. Here we list many of the companies and
 organisations who have served as project partners:

 Melville has been collaborating with Swansea University, University of Ghent and the Karlsruhe
 Institute of Technology since 2011 through the EU’s Interreg IVB's Strategic Initiatives
 Programmes initially in the Energetic Algae (EnAlgae) project, which combined the expertise and
 resources of 19 partners in seven countries. In the current ALG-AD project there are 7 further
 partners partners: Langage AD, INNOLAB, Association des Chambres d'Agriculture de l'Arc
 Atlantique, Université de Bretagne Occidentale, Le Centre National de la Recherche
 Scientifique, Agence nationale de sécurité sanitaire de l’alimentation, de l’environnement et du
 travail, and Cooperl arc Atlantique. As presented in her impact case study, Melville has also had
 fruitful collaborations with South Korean conglomerate Doosan, small UK company Kingdom
 Bioenergy working in India, and through the MacroBio project with the Indonesian Seaweed
 Association and Brawijaya University in Indonesia. Supported by QR GCRF funding in 2018-19,
 Melville has led a team of emerging researchers to support the sustainable redevelopment of a
 village in rural South Africa that had been recently devastated by wildfire; partners included
 Fruitful Futures, Heritage Western Cape, and the Universities of Cape Town and Stellenbosch.
 Again initially supported by QR GCRF and then by British Council/Indian Department of Science
 and Technology and internal PhD studentship funding, Melville and Gueniat are working with
 BCU Computing researchers and Panjab University to develop smart village microgrids in India,
 based on the integration of solar powered agricultural irrigation pumps.



                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wu, with EU Horizon 2020 funding, is working with partners such as the UK-based United
 Utilities, the Greek and Romanian technology firm, Singular Logic, and Spanish ICT and water
 consultancy company Aqua-Consult Ingenieros, to study the use of smart sensors to improve
 the efficiency of water systems. Wu also has an established international network in the domain
 of smart water systems with Dalian University of Technology, China, the University of Toronto,
 the Norwegian University of Science and Technology, and the Indian Central Scientific
 Instruments Organisation. The network promotes study visits, joint bids and publications.

 Proverbs has an extensive network in the domain of property-based resilience to flooding. As
 discussed in the impact case study, partners in the UK are DEFRA, RICS, UWE and Sedgwick
 Repair Solutions; in Brazil with the Santa Catarina Civil Defence Department; in Nigeria with
 Ibadan University with Professor Oladukon visiting BCU as a Commonwealth Academic Fellow.
 In Peru, funded through the British Council Newton Fund Researcher Links programme,
 Proverbs has collaborated with the Instituto Geofísico del Perú (IGP), the Universidad de Puria,
 and the Governor of the Piura Region, with the aim of improving the country’s resilience to
 flooding.

 Ioannidou and Fourlaris have established, soon after their appointment at BCU, new funding
 streams with The Coal Authority via their Industrial funded research project on ‘Assessing the
 Hydraulic performance of mine discharge lagoons’. Such innovative collaborative work expands
 the funding basis and extends the research skills BCU engineering has to offer to a variety of
 Water Quality key stakeholders, such as BAUER Wetland Competence Centre (Oman), The
 Coal Authority, RSPB, Constructed Wetland Association, Wyre River Trust, Environment
 Agency, CIWEM, Syngenta, Thames 21. In addition, Fourlaris has an established long term
 partnership with key UK manufacturing businesses such as Tatasteel UK, Warwick Automotive
 Group, as well as the leader in electrical steel production in the UK, Cogent, mapping to UK
 leadership on electric car developments.

 Contribution to the discipline

 Five academic staff members act as international peer reviewers for EU grant proposals, while
 two professors have visiting professor appointments with overseas universities. In the REF
 census period, the School has hosted five International workshops, while six members of
 academic staff have delivered keynote presentations in International Congresses. All 16
 academic staff members are reviewers in peer reviewed, high impact factor journals, while four
 members of staff act as members on advisory bodies.

 Krzyzanowski has acted as member of 5 Scientific Committees/and organising Committees, in
 UK (OXI2018), Japan (Metal Forming 2018), Spain (Metal Forming 2016) and Greece
 (EUROMAT 2017) . He a member of the Editorial Board of Metals and a Visiting Professor at
 AGH University of Science and Technology, Cracow, Poland. Melville has been commissioned
 for and delivered four Technical Reports for Doosan (2016-17) and has acted as Expert
 Reviewer for Research England - 2019 including E3 Expanding Excellence in England (2019-
 2022). Wu has acted as a reviewer for the external selection board for professorship at NTNU
 Norway; for the external scientific evaluation committee for Research Promotion Foundation
 Cyprus; been Guest Editor for the IEEE Journal Special Issue on Advanced Internet of Things
 for Smart Cyber-Physical Infrastructure System, and for the International Journal of Applied
 Science; and served as workshop chair on Internet of Things and Big Data for Healthcare 2018
 in conjuction with 16th IEEE International Conference on SmartCity.

 Fourlaris is Visiting Professor at University of Oviedo, Spain, delivering summer courses in
 2014 and 2016, on Electron Microscopical Characterisation Techniques in Metallic Materials’. He
 was honoured with the Microbeam Analysis Society of America Distinguished Scholar Award
 (awarded to PhD supervised work) for his work on High Strength Low Alloy Steels. Currently
 external examiner for the MSc in Advanced Materials, University of Limerick, Ireland, he served
 as Session Chair for the EUROMAT 2017 International Congress. Perera was Co-Chair of the


                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2nd International Research Conference on Sustainable Energy, Engineering, Materials and
 Environment at Polytechnic School of Mieres, University of Oviedo, Spain (2018) and an invited
 speaker and mentor for the Newton Fund Research Links Workshop 2018, Nairobi, Kenya.
 Hasan, a member of the International Advisory Council of Ahsanullah University of Science and
 Technology in Dhaka, Bangladesh, has served as Editorial Board Member for the International
 Journal of Engineering Materials and Manufacture, Environmental Science and Pollution
 Research, and the Korean Society of Manufacturing Technology Engineers.

 Proverbs is Editor of the International Journal of Building Pathology and Adaptation, a Trustee
 to the RICS Research Trust and a member of the Environment Agency’s Regional Flood and
 Coast Committee. He was Chair of the 7th International Conference on Flood and Urban Water
 Management 2020. He is Visiting Professor at Santa Catarina State University (UDESC), Sao
 Paulo, Brazil, the University of the West of England and Xiamen University of Technology,
 China. Khatir is a Visiting Research Fellow, School of Mechanical Engineering, University of
 Leeds. In 2019 he was Guest Editor for Special Issue “CFD-enabled Design Optimisation of
 Industrial Flows: Theory and Practice” of International Journal of Computational Fluid Dynamics.
 He was Organiser and Chair of the Mini-Symposium in CFD-based Optimisation Methods as
 part of the ECCOMAS ECCM-ECFD 2018 International Conference, Glasgow; member of the
 Scientific Committee for the Sustainable Thermal Energy Management (SusTEM2015)
 International Conference, Newcastle; and member of the Organizing Committee for 9th CUTSE
 Conference 2014, Sarawak, Malaysia. He has reviewed grants for EPSRC, Leverhulme Trust
 and National Geographic. Ioannidou has been an invited speaker for The Coal Authority,
 Mansfield, UK, 2019 (Highlighting the merits of tracer analysis in mining lagoons), and a UK
 Workshop on Science and Innovation for Catchment Management, 2019, University of Warwick.




                                                                                          Page 14
