Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Goldsmiths, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 33, Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context

The departments of Theatre and Performance (TaP) and Music have a history of cooperation and
collaboration spanning five decades. We share teaching and performance spaces, and
administrative resources. More important, are our common commitments to:

1) internationalism and diversity;
2) socio-political engagement and embeddedness in the local community;
3) experimental Practice Research (PR).

These commitments reflect Goldsmiths’ history as an arts-focused, community-facing institution,
and its south-east-London location. Developed over many years, they give our departments an
enduring and sustainable sense of identity and mission.

Research is central to that mission, and our work addresses a genuine diversity of musics,
theatres, publics and approaches. Our widely disseminated research outputs include books,
articles, digital interactive artworks, recordings, compositions, performances, playtexts, films, open-
access archival resources and community projects. Colleagues publish in the most renowned peer-
reviewed journals, and on community-run online platforms; they perform for global broadcast
audiences at the BBC Proms, and with groups of local women and schoolgirls in Tower Hamlets.
Our work is carried into the future by one of the largest postgraduate cohorts in the sector. All
these activities are valued equally as contributions to our underlying goal: to create innovative and
challenging arts research, with diverse collaborators, for the benefit of a broad range of publics and
users.

Structure

Our shared commitments are articulated through identified research concentrations, enabling our
departments to focus activities strategically around core themes and aims.

Since 2008, Music has characterised its research as comprising three main concentrations:

1) Music, Sound and Technology;
2) Social Processes and Community Life in Music and Sound;
3) Practice Research.

In TaP, three concentrations – evolving from the department’s commitment spanning several
decades to internationalism, social engagement and PR – were formally identified in 2018:

1) European Theatres;
2) Anticolonial and Diaspora Theatres;
3) Experimental Performance Past and Present.

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


We provide an overview of each concentration:

Music
1) Music, Sound and Technology. Since 2014, this area has seen much multimedia and audio-
visual research. This work is critical and interpretive, as with Rogers’ several books on sound in
experimental and documentary film, and creative, as with Abtan’s immersive, multimedia
composition practice. A second area explores technologies in their industrial and social
dimensions. Negus has published on digital music dissemination technologies and their effects on
concepts of intellectual property, and Perchard on audio consumerism in post-war Britain. A third
area is the department’s continuing investment in the digital humanities, evidenced in McVeigh’s
work on the In Concert dataset project and articles on digital humanities ethics and practices; and
Joncus’ publication of a digital-print hybrid critical edition as part of the €25m OPERA project
(where Joncus is the only UK participant).

2) Social Processes and Community Life in Music and Sound. Work underscores our commitment
to social engagement and the local area, exploring communities of music-making in both
contemporary and historical settings. Norton has conducted projects on Asian music cultures with
groups in Vietnam and London. S. Graham’s first book, Sounds of the Underground, studies
transnational underground music scenes and their participants. Similarly global in scope are
articles by Alexander and Matsumoto examining the historical dissemination of opera across the
world; McVeigh’s studies of concert life in Britain; and Perchard’s book on the post-war French jazz
world. Meanwhile, Joncus has published an innovative monograph exploring music-making,
commercial mediation and the experience of gender in eighteenth-century London.

3) Practice Research. This centres on composition, which is represented in several contrasting
forms: Gardiner’s works, performed at the Glastonbury festival and by the Philharmonia Orchestra,
which have explored the archive of 1960s TV composer Barry Gray; Peyton Jones’ multi-method
collaborations with theatre and musical ensembles; Redgate’s reflections on notation at its limits in
works for flute and string quartet. A second line of enquiry lies in theoretical work on PR. Drever
has published chapters, by turns practical and critical, on the role of the field-recording sonic artist;
Redhead has used philosophical and social theory to produce thinking that, going beyond
established ideas surrounding creative acts and their documentation, explores collaborative and
‘distributed’ creativity in all its complexity. Bulley, at the start of his academic career, is becoming a
frequent contributor to panels and projects around PR, and a noted sonic arts practitioner.

TaP
1) European Theatres. Expertise spans fifteen countries, emphasising TaP’s commitment to
internationalism and diversity. Shevtsova’s monograph, whose Moscow launch included a live-
streamed Q&A attended by 75 theatre-makers from across Russia, sheds new light on
Stanislavsky’s directing and acting methodologies; Twitchin’s monograph details the significance of
the figure of death in theatres from across Europe; Finburgh-Delijani’s project Reviewing
Spectacle: The Pasts, Presents and Futures of the Situationist International examines the legacy of
this radical group of artistic agitators in contemporary performance in France, Belgium and the UK.
Burt traces the emergence of British theatre’s actor ensembles; Gordon has pioneered the study of
British and European musical theatre.




                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2) Anticolonial and Diaspora Theatres. For over two decades TaP has developed and sustained
outputs around anticolonial, postcolonial, indigenous and diaspora performance. Okagbue brings
traditional and contemporary African performance to readers internationally. Graham’s ongoing
collaboration with diverse New Zealand theatre-makers, the subject of her monograph, opens the
department’s focus onto Australasia; Levitas theorises the uniqueness of Irish independentist
modernism. Osborne’s publications on Black British theatre foreground African and Caribbean
diasporas. In 2018 TaP hosted an international conference, On Whose Terms?, inviting Scots
Makar Jackie Kay, London’s first non-white artistic director Madani Younis, and Black British
playwrights Winsome Pinnock and Roy Williams. Other events reinforce our commitment to our
local area, including Black British Writing (2014), featuring Booker Prize winner (2019) and
Goldsmiths alumna Bernardine Evaristo.

3) Experimental Performance Past and Present. Performance-makers, dramaturgs, participatory
arts practitioners and theorists consolidate our research into experimental performance. Rotie’s
feminist intercultural choreographies, performed for the Hayward Gallery and Teatro Piccolo,
Palermo, challenge male dominance in Japanese Butoh. Furse’s international works apply
performance and interactive digital production to address mortality and mental illness.
Experimental practice is combined with community engagement in Mayo’s projects with
intergenerational groups; Braverman’s participatory work with youth and disability groups; and
Saner’s Göçmen Adımlar/Migrant Steps, which invites Turkish/Kurdish women migrants to share
stories of displacement through performance. Working in tandem with practitioners, are theatre
historians and sociologists. Karantonis has placed the modernist vocal innovator Cathy Berberian
on the intellectual map. Alston has published the first monographic critique of immersive theatre’s
production and reception. Fleming, founder-director of The Chekhov Collective UK, disseminates
Michael Chekhov’s methodology via publications and practical workshops. In 2020 she became a
Michael Chekhov Association Scholar, running online laboratories attracting broad international
attendance. Finally, practice and theory blend in Hilevaara’s book on ‘creative criticism’, which
presents written expression as constitutive of the researcher’s theoretical processes.

These concentrations are supported by what are known as Research Units (Music) and
Collaborative Research Groups (TaP), through which departmental funding is disbursed; links
between research and teaching are facilitated; and public activities coordinated. Our research is
developed and amplified through the regular hosting of nationally and internationally significant
events, and partnerships at community and global levels (Sections 3 and 4).

Research and impact strategy

Following REF2014, Music and TaP’s Departmental Research Committees (DRCs) implemented
research and impact strategies to guarantee sustainability, and find new ways of thriving in an
increasingly difficult climate for arts and humanities research.

We list goals set by Music and TaP in 2015, and relevant outcomes by 2020.

Continuity and sustainability
   ● Support ongoing research concentrations. Outcomes described above;
   ● Provide targeted research development for staff at all career stages, especially career
       outset, in planning ambitious and achievable goals for world-leading outputs and impact.



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Outcomes: both departments instituted formal systems of research mentorship (Section 2),
       and a culture of regular, informal guidance from Directors of Research (DoRs);
   ●   Participate in and further develop national and international research networks. Outcomes:
       during this period, Music and TaP have been more prominent than ever. Colleagues have
       fulfilled roles including President of the Royal Musical Association, Chair of the British
       Forum for Ethnomusicology, steering committee members of the Institute of Musical
       Research, and Secretary General of the European Association for the Study of Theatre and
       Performance (Section 4 for further initiatives);
   ●   Develop Open Access. Beyond observance of standard Open Access requirements, and
       participation in institutional projects such as Goldsmiths Press, both departments have
       sought new ways of making research activity and environment accessible to all. Alston’s
       AHRC-funded Staging Decadence hosts an open-access curated blog featuring reflections
       by artists and academics; Rogers oversaw the development of sonicscope.org, a
       postgraduate-run sonics journal. During the COVID-19 pandemic, TaP’s Performance
       Research Forum and Research Café series transferred online, ensuring research
       environment continuity and enabling broad participation. The same is true of Music’s 2020
       hosting of the Royal Musical Association’s 54th Annual Conference, one of the world’s
       largest musicology gatherings. In a short space of time following the Coronavirus outbreak,
       Music built an innovative, web-based programme that afforded the global musicology
       community opportunities for exchange and development during a difficult period. Further, it
       was decided to make the conference free, to maximise access and participation. Just over
       700 attendees (250% of the number expected at the in-person event) logged in from 39
       countries. Social media responses praised the ‘very smooth user experience’ and, more
       than once, said that going online had removed term-time childcare obstacles that previously
       hindered attendance;
   ●   Ensure research integrity is provided to all staff and students. Outcome: all staff and
       MPhil/PhD work is monitored by DRCs for ethical compliance.

Forward strategy
Music and TaP forward strategies focus on challenges identified following REF2014. Departments
resolve to:
   ● Develop a culture of research funding applications. In neither department had this
       previously been a priority. During the last REF cycle, only two research council or trust
       funding bids originated from Music. Outcomes: from 2014-2020, Music colleagues made
       nine applications, with one Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship resulting; almost every
       member of research staff was involved with a bid for external funding. Colleagues in TaP
       won two AHRC Research Grants, two Leverhulme Research Fellowships, and ACE and
       Wellcome Trust Grants;
   ● Lead the national conversation on PR. A high proportion of our research is articulated
       through practice, and the effective documentation, dissemination and reception of this work
       is paramount. Outcome: Goldsmiths have led and participated in several internal and
       national initiatives, notably the HEFCE-funded PR advisory group PRAG-UK (McVeigh,
       Redhead, Bulley), and the Leverhulme Prize for Visual and Performing Arts (Furse, panel
       member);
   ● Secure funded places for PGR students. Music received only two funded studentships in
       the last REF cycle; TaP had received three. Outcomes: as a result of much targeted
       developmental work, Goldsmiths won 19 (41%) of the 46 Music and Drama grants awarded



                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       to the nine CHASE institutions (AHRC Consortium for the Humanities and the Arts South-
       East England);
   ●   Develop creative approaches to research impact and public engagement (outcomes
       below).

Impact strategy
Music and TaP instituted a two-part approach to fostering understanding of and creative responses
to the impact agenda:
    ● Resources: Both DRCs created an annual competitive Strategic Fund. Individually and
        collectively, staff apply for funding to support projects satisfying stated strategic goals
        around engagement of and impact on publics beyond the university in the creative
        industries and local communities. Funded projects included those that became Music’s two
        Impact Case Studies, developed over two years with this support;
    ● Training: research staff attended a variety of briefing sessions and internal workshops
        provided by Goldsmiths’ Research Office. Events were organised to share experience and
        expertise from within and outside Goldsmiths: Music hosted a workshop run by impact
        specialists from King's College London’s Policy Institute, and TaP an event in which
        Michael Banissy, Goldsmiths recipient of a large Wellcome Hub grant, shared insights.
        Impact training now forms a key element of the mentoring system supporting staff at earlier
        stages in their careers (Section 2).

Results include:
   ● A blossoming of partnerships with external organisations beyond academia including public
       institutions (Barbican Centre, Horniman and Foundling Museums, London), arts
       organisations (Longplayer Trust, Create Ireland), cultural enterprises (Women’s
       Revolutions Per Minute), participatory theatre companies (Magic Me, Spare Tyre), disabled
       arts companies (Graeae, Mind the Gap, Creative Minds, International Inclusive Arts
       Network), local venues (Albany, Rich Mix), and institutions that have hosted colleagues as
       associate artists (Battersea Arts Centre);
   ● Funded projects. AHRC-funded PR projects took place with the London Tamil community
       (Norton and Hornabrook: see ‘Collaboration’); and with performance artists in Glasgow and
       Paris (Finburgh-Delijani). Goldsmiths Public Engagement Fund awards resulted in public
       symposia and a concert series around fringe and underground music (S. Graham and
       Busby);
   ● Changing researcher attitudes. New approaches to impact have arisen from training in, and
       the incentivisation of, impact: rather than a follow-on or outcome stage of a research
       project, research users, and intended types of benefits, are now systematically identified
       and involved from the project’s outset. This is a significant attitudinal and methodological
       shift;
   ● Peer-review feedback. The increasing strength of impact elements of applications
       submitted to RCUK has been noted by peer reviewers: ‘the fluid connection between
       academic and non-academic partners and the concern for the surrounding community
       within which the research takes place is some of the most impressive I have seen in my
       Peer Review College experience’ (AHRC reviewer of a Music application, 2018).

Looking ahead
Short- and medium-term plans aim to safeguard our work in what will be a difficult post-pandemic
research and funding environment. There are three goals:

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   ●   Ensure continuity: as detailed above, we have taken steps to maintain activity in our
       research concentrations, especially by way of digital initiatives;
   ●   Access recovery funding: PR involving public performance/exhibition is especially
       vulnerable. Colleagues in both departments have identified RCUK and ACE funding
       established in the wake of COVID-19 to offset those risks;
   ●   Increase collaboration: it remains imperative that our departments increase the rate of
       successful applications to major research funds. In addition to extant developmental
       support focusing on individual researchers, a new route towards this success will increase
       the number of collaborative projects seeking funding with partners from other institutions
       and disciplines both nationally and, importantly, internationally. Two large projects are
       currently underway: in TaP, Okagbue is applying to build capacity and promote sustainable
       arts development by establishing the Network of Directors of National Theatres in Africa; in
       Music, Negus is developing an East-Asian Music Hub with colleagues in China, Japan and
       Korea.

 2. People

As both departments’ staffing profiles have evolved over the past decade, our enduring
commitments to internationalism, social engagement and PR remain central. During this cycle, the
following appointments have been made in the service of one or more strategic aims:

Music Recruitment
   ● Alexander (Lecturer A, 2014), to lead and develop our longstanding tradition of work on
       Russian music;
   ● Rogers (SL, 2015), to consolidate work on music and screen media both in and outside the
       department, and develop Goldsmiths’ research theme Invention, Creativity and Experience
       (Section 3);
   ● Redhead (SL, 2018), to develop approaches to PR both in the department and nationally;
   ● Bulley (0.3 Research Associate, 2018), to develop PR and impact activities around Music’s
       special collections.

Additionally, S. Graham progressed from a fractional fixed-term to a permanent 1.0FTE
appointment, and Abtan, formerly cross-appointed in Music and Computing, became 1.0FTE in
Music.

TaP Recruitment
   ● Finburgh-Delijani (Reader, 2017), to maximise outputs in European Theatres and
      complement research in Anticolonial and Diaspora Theatres, with Francophone expertise;
   ● Karantonis (Lecturer A, 2018) to strengthen Experimental PR specialism in musical theatre,
      and consolidate expertise in Australasian performance;
   ● Alston (SL, 2020), to strengthen work in politically-engaged approaches with specialisms in
      experimental immersive and participatory performance.

Promotions
Research and impact excellence have been rewarded at university level with many promotions:
   • To Lecturer B: Alexander, Burt, S. Graham, Matsumoto;
   • To SL: S. Graham; F. Graham; Saner;
   • To Reader: Norton, Osborne, Peyton Jones, Perchard, Rogers;


                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   To Professor: Drever, Finburgh-Delijani, Perchard, Potter.

Both departments provide equitable working conditions and career development opportunities for
staff at all levels:

Associate Lecturers
Music and TaP employ a significant number of hourly-paid Associate Lecturers (ALs). The majority
are creative practitioners for whom university teaching is one element in a professional portfolio of
paid work. Others are PhD students gaining teaching experience. Individual circumstances apart,
both departments recognise and seek to mitigate what, in HE, is too often experienced as the
precarity of seasonal academic employment. In line with the Researcher Development Concordat,
we offer researcher-ALs developmental support and mentoring in addition to enhanced
employment terms. Like all colleagues, ALs can apply to DRCs for research funding, and such
applications are systematically prioritised.

We turn to REF Category A staff.

Career outset
In both Music and TaP, there is a significant presence of colleagues at the outset of their careers.
During this REF cycle, 11 of 17 Music researchers were within 10 years of their PhD or 8 years of
first appointment (Abtan, Alexander, Alessandrini, Bulley, Busby, S. Graham, Joncus, Matsumoto,
Perchard, Redhead, Rogers). In TaP, two current TaP members are ECRs (Burt, Hilevaara), and
all forthcoming appointments will be Early-Career. It is therefore a priority to have a strategic
approach to establishing and consolidating these colleagues’ research portfolios, and introducing
them to national networks and funding competitions. In 2014, TaP colleagues were clustered at
lecturer and professor grades. A scheme was implemented whereby senior-staff mentors met
newer colleagues once termly, offering advice on research and impact goals and how these could
contribute towards promotion. In 2019 F. Graham and Saner were promoted to SL.

Colleagues at career outset are supported through three interlocking formal mechanisms:
    • The provision, in their first year, of a teaching and administration workload significantly
       under the departmental average;
    • A two-tiered mentoring scheme. Newer researchers meet termly with 1) an allocated
       mentor – a senior colleague working in the same subfield – who can provide subject-
       specific research, output and impact strategies; and with 2) the departmental DoR, who
       advises on engagement with external research structures and funding opportunities.
       Through mentoring, colleagues have received institutional-level funding for career
       development (Busby) and public engagement (Alessandrini; Bulley; S. Graham, Busby and
       Harries, Mayo); and have been awarded membership of the AHRC peer review college
       (Alessandrini; S. Graham; Karantonis). Regular RCUK application development workshops
       also resulted in S. Graham’s AHRC Network application (£130,000). Newer colleagues are
       given preference in DRC allocation of funds towards research activities and leave;
    • Additionally, TaP holds bi-weekly ‘Café Research’ seminars, where staff provide feedback
       on colleagues’ work; the weekly Music Research Series fulfils a similar function.

Career-outset colleagues have been placed in key administrative roles, demonstrating early desire
and capacity for leadership: in Music, Alexander became Head of the Centre for Russian Music,
and S. Graham became co-Head of Department (HoDs) alongside Deacon, a senior colleague. In

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
TaP, Saner served as deputy HoD and Twitchin as Head of Postgraduate Studies. These
leadership positions provide newer staff with key responsibilities, and contribute towards promotion
prospects.

Mid-career
Nine colleagues have moved into or developed their mid-career (Finburgh-Delijani, F. Graham,
Joncus, Levitas, Norton, Perchard, Osborne, Rogers, Saner). By way of appropriate workload
allocation, staff have been supported to take on central departmental positions (Perchard and
Finburgh-Delijani as DoRs; Saner and Finburgh-Delijani as respective Deputy HoDs), and national
research roles (e.g. Norton’s Chairing of the British Forum for Ethnomusicology). On completing
their tenure, all HoDs are awarded a year’s research leave. Mid-career staff have recorded an
increasing range of international invitations and associations since 2014, including a fellowship in
France (Finburgh-Delijani) and keynotes in Germany (Alston); France, Iraq, Norway (Finburgh-
Delijani); New Zealand (F. Graham); Canada, USA (Joncus); Ireland, India, Italy, South Korea
(Levitas); Finland, Portugal, Vietnam, USA (Norton); Austria, Japan, USA (Perchard); Austria,
Denmark, Ireland (Rogers).

Senior
Ten colleagues have moved into or continued in professorial positions (Drever, Furse, Finburgh-
Delijani, Gordon, McVeigh, Okagbue, Perchard, Potter, Redgate, Shevtsova). Focus has fallen
during this cycle on university-level and inter/national administrative roles, and the consolidation of
international research profiles. Furse co-Directs the Performance Studies Laboratory PeARL with
HSE University, Moscow. In two Professorial secondments (both 0.5FTE), Drever was appointed
Deputy Dean of the Graduate School, while McVeigh became Academic Director of Research
Policy, developing PR and open access across Goldsmiths, and serving as Chair of Goldsmiths’
Research Ethics and Integrity Sub-Committee. Senior colleagues were awarded guest positions
internationally: McVeigh became a University of Newcastle Visiting Professor and Hartley Visiting
Professor, University of Southampton; Drever became Guest Professor in Participatory Information
Technology at Aarhus University, Denmark.

Research students

Research students are important contributors to both departments’ research cultures, conducting
their own innovative projects and organising and participating in events. The departments host
some of the country’s largest music and theatre postgraduate communities: Music has around 130
Masters and around 50 MPhil/PhD students, while TaP has around 100 Masters and 30 MPhil/PhD
students. Both departments run briefing sessions on PhD study for Masters students, and provide
candidates – especially where protected characteristics are a factor – with support in completing
CHASE funding applications.
        Over 20 nationalities are currently represented in our MPhil/PhD cohort. At this level, there
is in both departments a roughly even split between theoretical and PR projects. Music has for
many years offered a broad range of possibilities for PhD study, including Composition,
Performance, Sonic Arts, and Thesis pathways. During this REF cycle both departments have
introduced innovative PR PhD programmes to respond to and encourage an emerging culture of
postgraduate research that moves beyond established disciplinary paradigms. PR students benefit
from high-spec spaces and technical facilities in both departments (Section 3).
        The CHASE competition is highly selective, and Music’s 13 funded students have pursued
exceptionally compelling projects including a study of the performance practice of grime, sonic arts

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
composition for people living with dementia, and a PR project that resurrects and repurposes the
medieval tromba marina. In addition to individual studentships, Music secured a CHASE
Collaborative Doctoral Award in conjunction with the Noise Abatement Society.
        In TaP, which has been awarded six CHASE studentships, topics reflect the department’s
specialisms in internationalism and social engagement: music in African theatre, feminist Arab
storytelling, martial arts as political resistance, and applied theatre and sex education.
        All research staff took mandatory training in PhD supervision, and all personal tutors
received formal training in pastoral approaches.
        Supervision expertise in both departments is sought after, both by high-calibre prospective
students – who undergo a rigorous application and interview process before admittance – and
other institutions. From 2014-2020, UOA colleagues acted as external examiner for over 75 PhDs
in twelve countries on four continents.
        Recent postgraduates have taken up highly successful careers. From Music, John Wynne
is Professor of Sound Art at LCC; Jasmin Hornabrook is postdoctoral researcher at Loughborough
University; Adam Scovell published an academic book and novel to great acclaim and won several
film awards. From TaP, Afroditi Evangelatou gained a permanent lectureship at Rose Bruford
College; Ekua Ekumah is HoD at the University of Ghana; Olatunji Sotimirin is lecturer at the
University of Lagos, Nigeria; Elizabeth da Rosa is lecturer at HKAPA, Hong Kong. David Evans is
CEO of the Health Behaviour Group; Jorge Crecis is an internationally acclaimed teacher of dance
methodology, Yunlin Xiang a successful actor.

Training and funding
The success of both departments’ PhD students is built upon comprehensive training provision and
robust monitoring systems. All first-year PhDs attend training in induction week, and make use
throughout their first year of research skills and employability courses provided by the Goldsmiths
Graduate School Seminar Series. TaP provides a Research Methodologies module, with sessions
(often hosted by alumni) addressing career development within and beyond academia. Students
become integrated into, and supported by, our research environment through attending Music’s
Research Seminar Series, convened by two paid postgraduate coordinators in conjunction with the
DoR; and TaP’s Performance Research Forum series of seminars and artists’ talks. Upgraded
PhDs are invited to present their research at these events.
        Music regularly hosts or co-organises postgraduate study days and colloquia. A series of
international events exploring aural diversity in sonic arts was supported by £24k of CHASE
funding. Since 2013 the department has run annual national postgraduate research student
symposia on popular music, variously convened with the Institute of Musical Research (IMR), the
University of Westminster, and latterly under the auspices of CHASE, which awarded £8.8k for this
purpose. CHASE also awarded £4k for a training event on digital research and publishing. Further
events in ethnomusicology and historical musicology have run in conjunction with the IMR London,
IRCAM Paris, and the University of Osaka, in both the UK and Japan.
        CHASE students have access to consortium funds and a number of special training
programmes. However, both departments have taken care to militate against a two-tier
postgraduate research culture. All students can apply annually to the DRC and separately to the
Goldsmiths Graduate School for funding towards research activity. All TaP PR students have
access to £550 to support their practice-based submission. Unfunded students are given priority in
both instances.

Career development



                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our departments are actively committed to supporting and developing research students’ careers.
Students gain teaching experience on undergraduate modules, at first leading guest seminars and
later, under the guidance of an experienced coordinator, teaching entire modules. Student
contributions beyond contracted teaching – e.g. event organisation – are formally recognised and
fairly rewarded. Unpaid work is not permitted.
         As well as offering regular workshops on post-PhD careers, the Graduate School provides
an Academic Practice programme to PhD students and career-outset researchers. This
programme, based in part on the UK Professional Standards Framework for supporting teaching
and learning, provides guidance on curriculum design and delivery. In Music, PhD students Alex de
Lacey (2018-19) and Maria Perevedentseva (2020-1) taught the undergraduate module Advanced
Popular Music Studies using research-led curricula based on those they developed for this
programme.
         Goldsmiths Teaching and Learning Innovation Centre offers an HEA-accredited
Postgraduate Certificate in the Management of Teaching and Learning in Higher Education,
available to any colleague undertaking 30 hours of paid teaching on a Goldsmiths-accredited
programme. This has been completed by a number of our PhD students. This PG Cert. is
invaluable in developing reflective, innovative, flexible approaches to learning and teaching and,
like the other programmes detailed here, significantly enhances graduates’ employability.

Equality and diversity

In accordance with the Goldsmiths REF2021 Code of Practice and Researcher Development
Concordat, Music and TaP are committed to fostering inclusive, supportive, developmental and
inspiring environments for all our researchers. Throughout this cycle, special care has been taken
to establish the equitable and transparent distribution of research opportunities and resources.
        Both departments’ research cultures are openly non-hierarchical, illustrated by the
composition of departmental DRCs, which represent career-outset researchers and colleagues on
fractional contracts, mid-career and senior staff, PR colleagues, and groups with protected
characteristics. Input on decision-making, notably for internal funding and research leave, is
available to all research-active colleagues via the DRC, and through termly Departmental
Research Days (TaP) and Away Days (Music).
        Career-outset researchers, staff on fractional contracts, staff returning from extended leave,
those who manage long-term illness and, in some cases, those with protected characteristics, are
offered extra mentoring. Occupational Health assessment by Human Resources facilitates
structural adjustments such as a phased return to work, so research can be successfully resumed.
        Teaching and administrative duties are equitably allocated according to formal workload
models, which protect every colleague’s contracted research time. All staff receive a pro-rata
annual allocation to cover research-related expenses, for instance travel, transcription or
translation (Section 3). Staff and research students can also apply to their DRC for additional
finances, granted depending on merit and personal circumstances; support for those on fractional
contracts is often enhanced through this route. Dedicated Research Time (DRT), which gives one
term’s research leave for every nine terms actively in role (including parental, sick and externally-
funded leave), is available to all Category A colleagues, irrespective of contract fraction. DRT has
greatly benefited colleagues’ research projects: during her DRT, Saner maximised impact and
public engagement activities funded by her ACE grant by conducting projects with migrant women,
on which she wrote an article; Mayo conducted socially-engaged PR in the local area, contributing
to an Impact Case Study.



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         TaP’s staff and students are drawn from a wide cross-section of society, actively
demonstrating our commitment to, and promoting, equality and diversity of all protected
characteristics. The department’s research and taught programmes, with their focus on
internationalism, interculturalism and inclusion, ensure that diversity is at the forefront of staff
recruitment strategies, and research and impact activities. These ethics flow back into
undergraduate and postgraduate learning and teaching, for instance with (but not limited to)
modules on gender and performance, anticolonial and diaspora theatres, Asian performance, and
disability theatre. TaP has also co-hosted the UK’s only MA Black British Writing.
         Gender balance has been a particular priority in both departments over recent REF cycles.
In December 2008 there were no women on permanent research contracts in Music; in December
2013 there were 3. In 2020 there are 6, representing nearly 40% of Music research staff pro rata.
In TaP, there were 3 female members of staff in 2008; in 2020, women fill nearly 70% of Category
A posts.
         Like music studies as a whole, the Music department suffers from a diversity deficit among
both staff and students, and this can lead to experiences of isolation and discomfort on the part of
non-white departmental members. The department recognises, and has taken steps to address
this situation both internally and across the profession. In 2018 a professional preparation MA fee-
waiver scholarship was established to help support one non-white student per year who intends to
progress through postgraduate study into the academic profession. McVeigh helped initiate
equality initiatives within the Royal Musical Association; Perchard is a steering group member for
the resultant Equality, Diversity and Inclusion in Music Higher Education Group; Redhead was a
consultant for Sound and Music’s Fair Access Principles for those running programmes and
awards for composers. The department systematically brings a diverse range of researchers as
guest speakers for its Music Research Series, to inspire what is itself a diverse cohort of
postgraduate students.
         All staff took mandatory Goldsmiths training in sexual harassment and violence awareness,
as well as in unconscious bias and anti-racism; Rogers and Busby undertook women-focused
leadership training courses; Furse was a member of Goldsmiths’ Athena Swan Steering Group.
         Both departments endeavour to counter precarity in the workplace and support the career
pathways of all staff, including part-time and fixed-term. 97% of Category A staff are now on
permanent contracts, and both departments seek to offer permanent positions wherever finances
permit. A number of contracts have been increased or made permanent (Braverman, Burt,
Hilevaara), while some colleagues favour part-time contracts to conduct practice-based careers,
providing valuable bridges to the creative industries (Mayo, Rotie).
         In preparing the UOA’s submission, a Governance Group, chaired by the Goldsmiths Pro-
Warden for Research, met twice termly to ensure that our criteria for pre-evaluating REF outputs
were applied fairly and consistently across the two departments, and that Equality Impact
Assessments were considered when reaching decisions regarding output submissions. The same
attention to inclusion was applied to the submission’s Environment and Impact elements. Our
selection of outputs was considered in light of departmental EDI data around protected
characteristics of age, gender and ethnicity; we are satisfied that the submission provides an
accurate representation of that diversity. There remained a discrepancy between numbers
of colleagues who are primarily Practice Researchers (43% of headcount), and PR
outputs selected for submission (18% of total). However, this apparent mismatch concealed
several explanatory factors: 1) PR portfolios often collect several potential single outputs; 2)
Practice Researchers also authored non-PR outputs during this REF period; 3) PR outputs can
be larger in scope than standard text-based outputs, or else entail both development of the
practice itself and a significant amount of additional contextual work.

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income

Funding has been sought to ensure the vitality and sustainability of our three main research
concentrations. Sources of this income fall into two categories:

Research councils, trusts, foundations and university funds
These funds have been sought for research projects that further our foundational efforts towards
internationalism and diversity, and socio-political engagement and community embeddedness.
        Shevtsova and Levitas both received Leverhulme Research Fellowships for their respective
projects, Re-discovering Stanislavsky in Context (£25.1k) and Ireland, Theatre and Modernity
(£49.5k). Burt received a Harry Ransom Center Research Fellowship to conduct archival research
in Austin, Texas ($3k). Finburgh-Delijani was Principal Investigator on an AHRC and Agence
Nationale de la Recherche Research Grant (£73.9k + €60k). With his AHRC Early Career
Leadership Fellowship (2020), Alston is leading Staging Decadence: Decadent Theatre in the Long
Twentieth Century (£240k), for which he also won £4,855 for new translations and recordings of
decadent plays. Norton’s project The Value of Voice: Cheo Music Theatre in Vietnam (£6.5k) was
supported through a British Academy Small Grant. Matsumoto received a Symposium Award
(contributions totalling c. £15k) from the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science for the
symposium Safeguarding the Intangible: Cross-Cultural Perspectives on Music and Heritage,
which led to the publication of Matsumoto and Norton’s REF2021 submission, Music and Heritage.
Our funding has thus enabled international research and partnerships spanning Europe, North
America and Asia.
        Funding for research exploring social and community processes included Perchard’s
Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship, Popular Music in the Postwar British Home: Technology,
Experience, Daily Life (£145k), beginning September 2020. Drever won project grants from Aarhus
University (Urban Aural Attunement, £22k) and was part of a group that received £20k from
hearing-aid manufacturer GNResound towards the Aural Diversity concert series and conference,
described in one of our Impact Case Studies. Norton received AHRC funding for two projects with
local-community partners: Cultural Engagement and Knowledge Exchange between Music
Research and London’s Tamil Community, a component of the Goldsmiths project Cultural
Engagement in Times of Austerity (£16.8k); and Cultural Identity and Transnational Networks:
Musical Learning and Performance in London’s Tamil Diaspora (funds totalling £63.3k), which was
an AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award in conjunction with the Asian Music Circuit.
        Emphasising our commitment to interdisciplinary and collaborative research, staff have
participated in projects led by colleagues in other departments, and nationally. From 2012-18,
Negus was a member of the UK Copyright and Creative Economy Centre (CREATe), while in
2013-17 McVeigh participated in the AHRC Digital Transformations project, Transforming
Musicology. Drever participated in the AHRC-EPSRC Research Project, The Common Line, with
Exeter University. Rogers received follow-on funding for impact and engagement from the AHRC
for the project Learn to Play: Computational Assessment of Musical Playability for Users’ Practice,
based in Goldsmiths’ Computing Department. Mayo participated with colleagues from Drama at
QMUL on AHRC-funded workshops for refugees and care-experienced young people; and for
Finburgh-Delijani’s AHRC project she collaborated with colleagues from Glasgow and Paris Ouest
Universities.


                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Charity, state body, and commissioning funds for creative practice
Over a third of the UoA’s research staff are creative practitioners, and much of the funding sought
in both departments goes towards the production of PR. This means that grant applications to
Research Councils are outnumbered by those we direct towards an array of creative practice
funders and in-kind supporters.
         In TaP, Furse has won grants to support performances and published outputs from ACE,
Wellcome, Create/CAPP EU and the Michael Cacoyannis Foundation (£89.8k); Mayo from ACE,
LB Tower Hamlets and Mulberry School to conduct participatory performance with migrant women
and girls (£21.8k); F. Graham from Massive Theatre for a play commission and Creative New
Zealand for dramaturgy (£4k); Hilevaara from the Guernsey Arts Commission for the creation of a
new work presented in the Hors dé Saison festival (£2.8k); Saner from ACE for walking-theatre-
making workshops with migrants (£6.7k); and Gordon from the Cameron Macintosh Foundation for
a workshop staging of a musical (£1k).
         In Music, Bulley, in conjunction with Longplayer Trust, was awarded ACE funding (£20k) for
the 2019 Longplayer Day event. He also received a grant from the City of London and Waltham
Forest Borough of Culture (£20k) for his Living Symphonies installation in Epping Forest. Abtan
received money from the Fonds de Recherche du Québec – Société et Culture (CA$60k) to create
an experimental multimedia production, and funding for creative computation projects with SHARE
Sweden, New York University, Beast Feast, DeFragmentation Festival, and the Seattle Symphony
(totalling over £8k). Gardiner received a contribution towards the realisation of composition and
orchestration projects for the Glastonbury festival, BFI, and BBC broadcasting and orchestras
(£18.5k). Peyton Jones was funded for composition projects with Imitating the Dog Theatre
Company (over £5k). Among the projects that Alessandrini led or participated in as composer-in-
residence, was a Sound and Music / Creative Scotland project with the Red Note Ensemble
(£25k).

Infrastructure

Institutional funding
Two main streams have been accessed.
         The first supports Goldsmiths’ research theme Invention, Creativity, Experience. In Music,
both Bulley and Redhead received funds towards creative practice projects from this stream.
         The second comprises the competitive awards made by Goldsmiths’ Research and
Enterprise Committee. Awards have been received from the Public Engagement Fund, for
example, for Hornabrook’s AHRC postdoctoral project (detailed under Collaboration). Osborne’s
work on decolonising the school curriculum was supported by the Public Engagement Fund.
Mayo’s project on women’s manners won the Warden’s Public Engagement Prize. Funding has
also been secured for impact generation, notably Drever’s project Acoustic Ecology of Great
Places: Reprioritizing Sound and Hearing in Urban Design and City Planning. The International
Engagement Fund supported Matsumoto’s organisation of an international PGR forum at Osaka
University, Japan.

Departmental funding
In Music, five Research Units receive an annual budget of £1.5k each, normally spent on invited
speakers, symposia and concerts. The Popular Music Research Unit, Sound Practice Research
Unit, Centre for Russian Music, Contemporary Music Research Unit and Asian Music Unit bring
together colleagues and students working in the identified fields. These units help to organise
activity in key departmental topic fields, bridging teaching and research; they also act as a

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
managemental instrument through which funding can easily and equitably be distributed.
Additionally, Category A staff receive an individual annual allocation of £50 per 0.1 of their
contracts to support research activity. An annual competitive fund of £5k, overseen by DRC, further
supports staff and PGR research activities. DRC also oversees an additional £4k Strategic Fund,
which awards up to two projects annually. TaP’s investment is commensurate with Music’s, but
distributed slightly differently, offering £1k (p.a. pro rata) to all Category A staff and additional
Strategic Funds, awarded on a competitive basis, to support impact activities.

Facilities

Operational spaces
Our spaces and equipment are integral components of both teaching and research. Of special
importance to music research activity are two flagship technology facilities: 1) The Stanley Glasser
Electronic Music Studios (EMS), founded in 1968, and comprising a suite of studio work areas, live
room, 5.1 studio and 8-channel studio. Since 2014, it has been used to develop REF2021 outputs
by Abtan, Bulley and Drever, and impact activities with Indonesian musicians by Norton; and 2) the
Sonics Immersive Media Labs (SIML), built at a cost of £200k and opened in 2015. This shared
facility is a cutting-edge space that makes use of surround projection technologies in the
development of immersive, multimedia and virtual reality research. It has been used by Abtan to
develop a REF2021 output.
          TaP’s main performance facility is the George Wood Theatre (GWT) suite, reopened in
2018 following a £3.2 million rebuild. This includes high-quality sound and lighting equipment, a
theatre with tension-wire grid, black box studio and sprung floor dance studio, refurbished
scenography and costume workshops, and media suite. This has contributed invaluably to TaP’s
research and impact activities, providing facilities for staff and postgraduates to research and
perform: Hilevaara developed a piece here that was presented at the 2019 Venice Biennale
Research Pavilion; Furse’s Sea/Woman was rehearsed for its revival in Niš, Serbia (2019); and
many PhD students develop and present their PR doctorates in these new spaces. Thanks to the
GWT’s flexible, high-spec technical provision, visiting speakers at TaP’s Performance Research
Forum, including author-performer Mojisola Adebayo (2019) and director Topher Campbell (2019),
can present discussion of their work with live performance and high-quality film projection.

Special collections
Goldsmiths Library holds a number of music- and theatre-focused special collections. Subject to
particular development since 2014 have been:
    ● The Daphne Oram Archive, which contains the composer’s papers, sketches, photographs,
        correspondence scores and recordings;
    ● The Women’s Revolutions Per Minute (WRPM) archive, which gathers materials of this
        feminist distribution business that promoted music performed, composed and produced by
        women;
    ● The London International Festival of Theatre (LIFT) records;
    ● The Future Histories: Black Theatre and Carnival Archive.


Archives are visited by a steady stream of external researchers, and their materials loaned for
external display, as with the exhibition at the Barbican Music Library showcasing Goldsmiths’
Centre for Russian Music collections, curated by Alexander. In line with Goldsmiths’ Learning,
Teaching, Assessment Strategy, the archives also enable the integration of staff and student
research and teaching. So, while Bulley’s Impact Case Study evolved from research in the Oram

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
archive, and Levitas and Osborne have derived outputs from (respectively) the Theatre and Ireland
and Future Histories archives, undergraduate and postgraduate modules also encourage students
to engage with archival materials in their work: the WRPM and LIFT archives are each explored by
around 120 students annually. Development of this area continues. A further aspect of Bulley’s
work has been the preparation and actualisation of the recently-acquired Hugh Davies and Lily
Greenham collections, which are the subject of currently-developing funding applications.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaboration

With PR often a key method, our collaborative work is designed to take research beyond
Goldsmiths, generating international partnerships, playing a key role in the creative industries,
addressing social issues, and working with local communities.

Internationalism and Diversity
Music’s Matsumoto ran three projects with Japanese partners, the largest of which was the 2014
Symposium Safeguarding the Intangible: Cross-Cultural Perspectives on Music and Heritage. This
was run with the University of Osaka, which brought scholars and postgraduates to Goldsmiths to
develop and present work. Alexander has organised a number of initiatives with Russian partners,
including the Moscow Contemporary Music Ensemble, with which the department ran workshops
for composition students (2017).
        In TaP, Finburgh-Delijani’s project Reviewing Spectacle staged festivals of work by artists
influenced by the Situationist International’s theories and practices, at the théâtre Nanterre-
Amandiers and théâtre l’Échangeur, Paris, and the Centre for Contemporary Arts, Glasgow (2017).
Attended by 400 people, these included 14 performances by artists from Belgium, DR Congo,
France, the UK and USA. F. Graham, who researches Māori practice and works with a range of
New Zealand playwrights and companies, has acted as dramaturg for verbatim theatre developed
at Otago University (2012-21). Okagbue is the UK’s principal link with theatre studies in Africa,
regularly disseminating his work in Nigeria and Ghana.

Socio-political engagement and embeddedness in the local community
Music’s 2016 AHRC-funded Collaborative Doctoral Award and Cultural Engagement and
Knowledge Exchange postdoctoral project (see Research Councils, Section 3) were completed by
Jasmine Hornabrook (PhD, 2015), who developed partnerships with the London Tamil Centre in
Wembley and London Sivan Temple in Lewisham, and co-developed work with renowned
professional Carnatic musicians. This research material formed the basis of a series of creative
workshops, and subsequent public performances at Deptford Town Hall, New Cross, and the
London Tamil Centre. In 2018, Norton established an Asian Music Unit artist-in-residence
programme, funded by the Indonesian Embassy and Ministry of Culture and Education, to host
Indonesian virtuoso musicians, Lili Suparli and Rudi Mukhram. They worked intensively with
composers and students in Goldsmiths’ Gamelan Group, recorded sessions in the Goldsmiths
Music Studios, and performed at Goldsmiths and the Horniman Museum (attracting 8.5k YouTube
views).
        Music’s Bulley and Garrelfs established a formal relationship with the Longplayer Trust
charity, founded to document and maintain the 1000-year performance of Jem Finer’s generative
composition, Longplayer. Together, they propagate research and public engagement, often in
south-east London, exploring long-term thinking and ecological sustainability. Longplayer’s main

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
public listening post at Trinity Buoy Wharf, Greenwich, which relies on Music’s technical support,
has over 5,000 annual visitors and over 50,000 unique listeners. Music has hosted and curated two
12-hour ‘Longplayer Days’, staging experimental music and sonic arts performances in the south-
east London streets, and attracting audiences of over 200. A Longplayer installation,
collaboratively designed by Finer and Bulley, featured at March 2019’s inaugural Horniman X
Goldsmiths Late event at the Horniman Museum, Lewisham, was heard by over 1000 visitors from
a wide cross-section of south-east London’s communities. A further collaboration with the
Horniman, linking research, teaching and outreach, was a 4-day workshop for local young people
in August 2019. Here, Bulley used music-making techniques found in Daphne Oram’s works to
introduce participants to electronic music composition and performance.
         TaP has a long history of community-embedded performance. Mayo, Associate Artist with
Magic Me intergenerational arts charity, worked with groups across south and east London at
venues including Sutton House and the Geffrye Museum in Hackney, and the Local History
Archive in Tower Hamlets. Speak as you Find (2015-16), on Tower Hamlets and the multiple
narratives of place told by intergenerational groups, culminated in four sold-out community
performances. The Gratitude Enquiry (2016), an intergenerational project on, and with, refugees
and migrants, was devised with Ovalhouse, Lambeth and the Sydenham Festival, Lewisham.
Braverman has developed work with the participatory theatre company Spare Tyre at Goldsmiths’
local theatre, The Albany.
         TaP’s commitment towards community participation has resulted in both local and
international projects. With Goldsmiths’ cross-department Migration Research Network, Mayo
organised three conferences (2016-19), uniting refugee artists, refugee arts organisations and
academics from the UK, Ireland and Italy. Saner’s project Göçmen Adımlar/Migrant Steps included
workshops at North London Community House (2014), Refugee Action York at York Theatre Royal
(2014), the Migrant Women’s Organisation, Berlin (2015) and Alma Teatro, Turin (2018).

Experimental Practice Research
In Music, Alessandrini undertook international collaborative projects, bringing together our focuses
on social participation and creative practice, notably with the project Mondgewächse, in
collaboration with Share Music, Sweden. Alessandrini developed software interfaces for
performance by users of different physical and mental abilities, staging an inclusive
interdisciplinary multimedia performance with them. As the first artist-in-residence with the
Ensemble InterContemporain at the Gaîté Lyrique, Paris, and in collaboration with Radio France,
Alessandrini also created Sound Kitchen, an outreach project consisting of four public
presentations of interactive sonic and audiovisual art.
         In TaP, Create Dublin’s CAPP EU programme commissioned Furse’s anatomy projects
(2015-18, Live Collision Festival, Dublin; Chisenhale Dance Space, Chats Palace, London); and
artist residency at The Beckett Centre, Trinity College Dublin (2018) which feature in one of our
Impact Case Studies. The Michael Cacoyannis Foundation, Athens, commissioned her new
performance and symposium (2016), reworked for Javeriana University Bogotá, Colombia (2018).
Fertility Fest commissioned her new piece for The Barbican (2019).

Interdisciplinarity
Both departments’ research concentrations on internationalism and social/political engagement
ensure that collaboration with colleagues across disciplines is actively encouraged and supported.
        Since 2014, half of Music staff have collaborated in interdisciplinary projects, including: big
data (McVeigh, with Goldsmiths Computing department); music psychology (Potter, Rogers, with
Goldsmiths Psychology); acoustics, design and architecture (Drever, see Impact Case Study);

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
intellectual property law and politics (Negus, with the AHRC CREATe centre); medical history
(Matsumoto, who, with the historian of science Suzuki of Keio University, Japan, established the
Medical History and Society network); and creative practice involving audio-visual or theatrical
staging (Peyton Jones with the theatre company Imitating the Dog). This resolutely open approach
to music research is reinforced by the presence of research on music in many other Goldsmiths
departments, including Media, Sociology, TaP and Visual Cultures.
         In TaP, Furse co-directs the Centre of the Body Research Centre which, with colleagues
from History, Anthropology, Media and Sociology, examines the body and culture. Finburgh-
Delijani has brought TaP and English and Creative Writing (ECW) together by co-founding the
Comparative Literature Research Centre; and, also with ECW, Alston has co-founded the Centre
for Decadence.

Contribution to the research base

Research leadership and distinction
The quality of our research leadership is recognised and demonstrated internationally. Senior
colleagues have given keynotes in Denmark, Hong Kong, UK (Drever); Colombia, France, Iraq,
Ireland, Russia (Furse); Nigeria, UK (Okagbue); Italy, UK (McVeigh); China, Finland (Negus); India
(Gordon); Hungary, Morocco, Russia, UK (Shevtsova).
         Music’s McVeigh has fulfilled prestigious national and international positions, chiefly:
member of the AHRC Strategic Reviewers and peer review college; adviser to three Hong Kong
universities on research assessment; Deputy Chair of REF2014 Sub-panel 35 and co-author of ‘An
Analysis of British Music Research as Reflected in REF2014 and RAE2008’; member of the new
Network of European Musicological Societies (NEMS) steering group; and Council member and
2018-20 President of the Royal Musical Association (and thereby ex officio trustee of Musica
Britannica). As President of RMA, McVeigh has prioritised initiatives on PR, and equality and
diversity in the profession.
         Norton, Chair of the British Forum for Ethnomusicology (2014-19), is panel member for
REF2021, Sub-panel 33, to which he was appointed for both Criteria and Assessment Phases.
Drever, consultant for many national policy initiatives, is an active member of several international
research groups in sonic arts and the acoustic environment (see Impact Case Study). Rogers is a
founding member of the British Audiovisual Research Network.
         In TaP, Finburgh-Delijani is co-founder (2017) and current Secretary General of the
European Association for the Study of Theatre and Performance. TaP staff are also members of
Prize Juries for international theatre and literary festivals: Belgrade International Theatre Festival
(Shevtsova, President), Windham-Campbell Literature Prize (Okagbue, Osborne), Nišville Festival,
Serbia (Furse).
         Colleagues in Music and TaP received numerous international distinctions. In Music,
Norton won the American Musicological Society’s Ruth A. Solie Award for his co-edited volume
Music and Protest in 1968. Matsumoto received the journal Estetica: studi e ricerca’s award for her
article on debates around plagiarism in nineteenth-century opera. In TaP, Shevtsova’s impact upon
the study of European and North-American theatres has been recognised by translations of her
works into Arabic, Hungarian, Italian, Mandarin, Persian, Polish, Russian and Serbian. Twitchin is
published in Polish, and Finburgh-Delijani in French.

Practice Research
Music and TaP are central in the Practice Research Advisory Group (PRAG-UK), the national body
established (2015) to develop PR methods and dissemination, and to act as an advocate for such

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
work within HE. The group held its first open event, What is the Future of Practice Research?
(2015), at Goldsmiths. McVeigh was a founder-member; Redhead is a regular contributor to
events, first as an employee of Canterbury Christ Church and then Goldsmiths; in 2019 Bulley was
one of two Goldsmiths postdoctoral researchers, funded by Research England, charged with
authoring two reports exploring the historical and contemporary contexts and definitions of PR, and
the futures of documentation, storage and dissemination.

Peer review
Colleagues' expertise has been called upon in national and international contexts, evidencing the
Unit’s strategic aims towards collaboration and internationalisation.
        During this period, nine Music and TaP colleagues have served the AHRC peer review
college (Alessandrini, Drever, Gordon, S. Graham, Karantonis, McVeigh, Norton, Osborne,
Redhead). Additionally, McVeigh has refereed for Leverhulme and British Academy grants.
        Drever has reviewed for the Austrian Science Fund and Social Sciences and Humanities
Research Council of Canada; Joncus for the Irish Research Council; Negus for the Research
Council of Norway, and the Austrian Science Council; Finburgh-Delijani for the European Research
Council, French Institute for Advanced Study, Agence Nationale de la Recherche (France), Fonds
de la Recherche Scientifique (Belgium) and Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council
(Canada).
        Both departments provide monograph peer reviews for all the major academic and industry
publishers in the UK and North America. Music colleagues have peer-reviewed for over 40 journals
of international standing, in historical musicology, ethnomusicology and area studies, jazz and
popular music studies, sonic arts and music computing, sensorial studies, and history. TaP has
peer-reviewed for over 20 journals spanning such diverse areas as performance and visual arts,
voice studies, musical theatre, musicology, modern languages, comparative literature, African
studies, memory studies, performance philosophy, ecocriticism, cultural criticism, dance and
performer training, and digital media. These areas of specialism, by no means exhaustive, illustrate
the variety and vibrancy of research expertise in both departments, and the way in which staff
expertise is solicited by publishers and funders in a wide, interdisciplinary, international range of
fields.

Editorships
Editorships undertaken in Music and TaP closely align with and strategically help strengthen each
department’s key research concentrations. In this period, Music colleagues have been editors of
two journals, edited five journal special issues, and served on eleven journal and book series
editorial boards; from Music & Letters through Popular Music to Music and the Moving Image,
these cover every topic area represented in departmental research.
        In TaP, Okagbue is founding president of the African Theatre Association, and founding
editor of African Performance Review, for which Gordon is advisor. During this REF cycle, TaP
research staff have served on the editorial boards of fourteen journals, ranging from Women’s
Writing to International Yeats Studies and New Theatre Quarterly, for which Shevtsova has been
co-senior editor since 2003. Furse is on the advisory board for Digital Theatre Plus, as well as
Goldsmiths Press; Alston was founding co-editor of Contemporary Theatre Review's Interventions;
Finburgh-Delijani is on the editorial board for Théâtre/Public, France.

Memberships
Music and TaP staff are members of a combined total of 50 learned associations, centres and
networks which include the major societies for musicology (RMA, BFE, IASPM, AMS, SEM) and

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
theatre, performance and literature (AfTA, EASTAP, FRSA, IFTR, MLA, PSi, TaPRA). During this
cycle, TaP has provided three working-group convenors to major associations: TaPRA’s Directing
and Dramaturgy (Finburgh-Delijani) and Performance, Identity and Community (Alston); and
IFTR’s Music Theatre (Karantonis). These memberships are clustered in groups addressing our
research concentrations on: internationalism, with colleagues represented on The Royal
Anthropological Institute’s Ethnomusicology Committee (Norton), European Academy (Finburgh-
Delijani, Shevtsova), and UCL Centre for Transnational History (Alexander); socio-political
engagement, with Finburgh-Delijani a member of the Human Rights Centre, University of Essex,
and Braverman of the International Inclusive Arts Network, which has campaigned worldwide for
inclusivity in the arts; and PR, with practice-focused associations including PRS and BASCA
(Gardiner), the New Radiophonic Workshop (Bulley), Performance Philosophy Network (Twitchin),
Michael Chekhov Association USA (Fleming) and Dramaturgs’ Network (F. Graham).

Contribution to the economy and society

Through public engagement, staff have made sustained contributions to the activities of public
institutions, third-sector bodies, educational and arts organisations and businesses across Europe,
Asia, Australasia and North America.

Exhibitions and Festivals
Interventions have aimed to diversify representation in both historical and contemporary contexts.
Joncus worked on several projects related to the social dimension of eighteenth-century music,
contributing to public exhibitions and associated symposia and concerts including Enlightened
Princesses: Caroline, Augusta, Charlotte, and the Shaping of the Modern World (Yale Center for
British Art) and Black Music: its Circulation and Impact in Eighteenth-Century London and Black
Music in Eighteenth-Century London (Paul Mellon Centre for Studies in British Art). Perchard
served as an academic consultant and writer for a project conceived by the noted US pianist Jason
Moran focusing on the African American bandleader and WWI combatant, James Reese Europe,
co-commissioned by 14-18 NOW: WW1 Centenary Art Commissions, Berliner Festspiele and
London Jazz Festival. Norton’s work to ignite the topic of ethnomusicological film-making as a new
area for study led to collaborations with many partners, including filmmakers, festivals and
institutes such as ICTM, RAI and ASEASUK. He also established an Ethnomusicology Film Prize
at the RAI International Ethnographic Film Festival.

Performances
Music researchers have contributed twice to the BBC Proms (Driver’s 2014 performance of
Walton’s Sinfonia Concertante, and Bulley’s 2018 performance of Oram’s Still Point). In TaP, in
addition to the performances staged by Furse, Graham, Mayo and Rotie already mentioned,
Rotie’s workshops, Butoh and the Art of Slow, were curated by sonADA Aberdeen. Braverman’s
devised shows have toured globally, to the Edinburgh Fringe, Dmitria (Thessaloniki), International
Contemporary Theatre (Shanghai), Adelaide, Perth and Sydney Festivals.

Talks
Colleagues have contributed expertise to public talks at many major venues in Europe and North
America, including the Barbican (Osborne); British Library (McVeigh, Osborne); Institut Français
(Finburgh-Delijani); King’s Place and South Bank Centre, London (Potter); London Festival of
Baroque Music, Amherst Early Music Festival (Joncus); Royal National Theatre (Finburgh-Delijani,
Gordon, Okagbue); Royal Opera House and Bodleian Library (Alexander). Staff have also

                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
participated in many community-facing educational fora and activities, including a South Bank
Centre panel on the future of Creative Music Education (Redhead), and the INSIGHT programme
for academically promising 11-18 year-olds at Bishop Challoner School, Tower Hamlets, London
(Perchard).

Media
Among a number of international media appearances, staff have contributed to BBC TV (Music,
Mischief & Morals in the 18th Century, Joncus and McVeigh; Mozart’s London Odyssey, McVeigh;
Watchdog, Drever), Channel 5 (ABBA: Secrets of their Greatest Hits, S. Graham), RTE Radio
(Stranger than we Thought, S. Graham), BBC Radio (Jazz Now, Perchard; In Search of the Black
Mozart, McVeigh; Five Live, Furse), and the BBC World Service (The Forum’s Stanislavsky
programme, Shevtsova). Shevtsova was interviewed on Russian television for the launch of
Rediscovering Stanislavsky, and F. Graham spoke about the UNESCO Playwrights Festival on
Radio New Zealand. Osborne has spoken on BBC Radio about decolonising school
curricula. Norton’s work on Vietnamese music was the subject of a dedicated Vietnamese
Television Corporation programme. Additionally, colleagues have frequently served as consultants
for media productions, including BBC TV and Films (Perchard, McVeigh) and BBC Radio
(Alexander, Joncus, Perchard). Joncus and Norton are regular writers for, respectively, BBC Music
Magazine and Songlines.




                                                                                         Page 20
