Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Westminster

 Unit of Assessment: 18 Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Since the last REF, the research culture of the Westminster Law School has evolved into a
 vibrant hub of inclusion, diversity and mutual support. We strike a balance between the
 production of interdisciplinary, innovative and impactful research, and a strong emphasis on
 researchers’ well-being, community building and equal representation.

 Our research structures are as diverse as our ethos. We have six research centres and groups,
 four open access in-house series of publications, eight annual series of events (two research
 seminars and six events series; one for each research centre), and a long list of international
 visitors and visiting doctoral researchers. We practise an ethics of care for our staff and
 students’ welfare, underpinned by an inclusive strategy that prioritises gender balance and
 BAME representation. We pride ourselves on our contextual research ethos and believe that law
 must always be researched in its wider social context, whether this research is doctrinal,
 empirical or theoretical. We encourage a deeply interdisciplinary spirit that permeates not just
 our research seminars, reading and writing groups and research centres, but also our staff and
 recruitment strategy and our postgraduate and doctoral student admission policies.

 Research Strategy

 Since 2014, we have addressed four areas of strategic development identified after REF2014,
 namely: (a) strengthening interdisciplinarity in research and collaborations, (b) producing high
 quality practice-informed research with global impact, (c) developing socially contextualised,
 innovative theory, and (d) increasing the number of successful grant awards.

 Addressing these priorities, in 2017 we introduced a reimagined research strategy that responds
 to, but also moves beyond, the future strategy articulated in our REF2014 submission. This
 strategy is defined by a research ethos of non-hierarchical collaboration and extended structures
 of collective and centralised support, which seek to support staff, and especially staff with
 protected characteristics, through physical, intellectual and social inclusion measures in all
 school activities. The central aims of our strategy are to:

    ●   draw out the interdisciplinary potential in all our research through a network of mutual
        support (mentoring, peer review, seminars for feedback on work in progress);
    ●   ensure our research is socially contextualised, impactful and ethically responsible
        through support for public engagement and outreach activities that can make it
        meaningful and accessible, and by placing social inclusion and diversity at the core of
        all our research activities and networks;
    ●   encourage global outreach and research with global connections through supporting
        staff to foster international research networks, partnerships and programmes;
    ●   strengthen our Research Centre structure, and innovate and renew our research culture
        through funding staff and doctoral students to participate in conferences and other events
        of interest, integrating visiting fellows to present and lead in our various events and
        seminars, and learning from the often cutting-edge research of our doctoral students;
    ●   support staff in making successful bids for grants collaboratively and individually
        through School specialised training, benefiting from the University’s new grant application
        support system, and dedicating time for writing and peer-reviewing colleagues’
        applications as a part of staff workload.

 These priorities have been achieved through several key initiatives, including:

    ●   New research committee structure with horizontal, non-hierarchical participation (see
        below), complemented by bottom-up working groups as part of our school-wide Stop the

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Silence initiative, promoting diversity and inclusion in research, curriculum and career
        progression (see section 2).
    ●   A sabbatical system with two staff each year given one semester relief from duties to
        complete substantial research (section 2).
    ●   Weekly term-time seminars and writing mornings, attended by colleagues at all stages of
        their career, including visiting lecturers and PhD students.
    ●   New transparent workload allocation model, with research hours incorporated into the
        timetables of all staff (section 2).
    ●   Annual PhD scholarships and fee-waiver bursaries to attract the best doctoral candidates
        in areas of research strength (section 2).
    ●   A mentoring system through which ECRs are mentored by senior staff, given advice on
        making their research innovative, socially relevant and publishable.
    ●   Dedicated support for external income generation through the University Research and
        Knowledge Exchange Office (RKEO), complemented by a Law School peer review panel
        (composed of researchers with successful records of securing funding and/or experience
        serving on Research Council review panels) to provide support and advice (section 3).

 Consequently, there has been a dramatic increase in research activity since 2014, with wider
 staff participation, including postdoctoral, fixed-term and fractional staff. Where Law at
 Westminster submitted 21 staff members (18.90 FTE) in REF2014, we are now submitting 34
 staff members (32.5 FTE), an increase of nearly 72% FTE. Our staff have also been successful
 in securing significant research grants from research funding bodies including the AHRC, ESRC,
 British Academy, HERA, Fritz Thyssen Foundation and the Quintin Hogg Trust (see section 3).

 Research Management Structure

 Since REF2014, our research management has been strengthened by moving from a standard
 hierarchical structure, where the School Research Director had responsibility for all research
 matters including PhDs, to a more horizontal practice, where research leadership is part of an
 inclusive team structure with ECRs and senior members of staff collectively responsible for the
 various research domains. This encourages a democratic ethos of shared leadership and
 research co-production throughout the School and has allowed both senior and junior colleagues
 to develop research leadership by contributing significantly to research-related activities.

 Facilitation of the School research strategy is collectively overseen by the Head of School
 (Duff), School Research Director and Impact Lead (Creutzfeldt), REF Lead (D’Souza), PhD Co-
 ordinator (Voiculescu) and Research Environment Lead (Philippopoulos-Mihalopoulos), and a
 regular School Research Committee, open to all staff including visiting lecturers and doctoral
 researchers. A democratic research ethos of collective career development, feedback and
 support, and inclusive and transparent decision-making underpins our aim to generate new
 leadership and capacity building. Faithful to our collaborative ethos, research activities are
 shared amongst teams: doctoral supervision takes place in teams of two or three members of
 staff of various seniority (overseen by Voiculescu, with doctoral training overseen by
 Philippopoulos-Mihalopoulos); organisation of research seminar series and reading groups in the
 School is shared across four members of staff (Flacks, Creutzfeldt, Philippopoulos-
 Mihalopoulos, Samuels); the process of ensuring the quality and quantity of research outputs
 and impact generation is shared across the research leadership team as a whole; finally, all
 Readers and Professors are expected to mentor research-active and research-aspiring staff,
 facilitate external income generation, and peer-review and assist ECRs with their grant
 applications. Research impact, knowledge exchange and dissemination initiatives are positively
 encouraged across all staff regardless of seniority.

 Research Centres and Groups

 The six research centres and groups hosted by the School reflect our areas of research strength
 and are key to our ambition to foster and showcase our research excellence. Additional to any
 external funding, all centres have access each to £10K pa of the QR budget. Since REF2014,

                                                                                          Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Law School has consolidated its place in socio-legal research, law and theory, the legal
 profession and legal education, international law, and law and popular culture, and developed
 new research strengths in law, development and conflict studies, law and art, as well as
 decolonisation, diversity and inclusion. All research-active and research-aspiring staff, including
 doctoral students, are members of at least one of the School’s Research Centres and groups. In
 this way, we are all actively encouraged to: pursue collective, interdisciplinary research; build
 networks with external partners including other universities and Third Sector organisations;
 contribute to and organise academic and professional events funded by the School; share
 research with colleagues through the fortnightly internal bulletin LAWNEWS; and disseminate
 our work through various online platforms like SSRN, researchgate.net and academia.edu, and
 through the blogs/Twitter feeds and Facebook sites of the six research centres and groups. Our
 success in this regard is evidenced by our increased quantity and quality of grant applications
 and awards, internationally-excellent research outputs, successful PhD completions, and
 collaborative and interdisciplinary research culture.

 Each of the centres and groups exemplify our core values of interdisciplinarity, global impact,
 social contextualisation and theoretical innovation.

 The Centre on the Legal Profession leads the way in empirical and socio-legal research,
 and engages staff and research students across a broad range of key research areas: studies of
 the legal profession; diversity in the legal profession and new markets; legal aid, access to
 justice and pro bono work; mediation, ombudsmen, adjudication; globalisation of the legal
 profession and legal education; legal ethics and values; regulation of lawyers and law firms.
 Outcomes include discussions with regulators, the Inns of Court and professional associations,
 and multiple prestigious grants, such as the ESRC justenergy 3-year project (led by Creutzfeldt)
 on access to justice for vulnerable and energy poor consumers in Europe; Mason’s study on
 Sexuality at the Bar, surveying and interviewing participants drawn from barristers, QCs,
 students and pupil barristers to look at connections between sexuality and practice, openness
 about sexuality, and homophobia at the Bar; and the Windrush Justice Clinic imparting free
 advice and assistance to victims of the Windrush scandal in a project that combines research
 with clinical education, community engagement, and the meeting of otherwise unmet legal need.
 Since the establishment of the Centre in 2006, members have received funding from the ESRC,
 Nuffield Foundation, German Science Foundation, Leverhulme Trust, SLSA, Harvard Law
 School, Legal Services Board, Bar Council, Law Society, AHRC, and Ministry of
 Justice/Department for Constitutional Affairs.

 The Centre for Law, Society and Popular Culture engages in a range of research and public
 engagement activities, including hosting the open access Entertainment and Sports Law
 Journal, the Routledge monograph series Studies in Law, Society and Popular Culture, the
 Quintin Hogg Trust-funded Lost in Music initiative, and the Soho Poly initiative that revives the
 cultural significance of the Polytechnic. All these have led to multiple funding successes
 (BA/Leverhulme, AHRC) and events via its Theory Meets Practice and Film Matters series.
 Examples of the former include two high-level music events: ‘Artist Contracts in the Digital Age’
 (with Nick Mason of Pink Floyd and Chris Ancliff of Warner Music Group), and the ‘Once in a
 Lifetime: The Acquisition of a Music Publishing Company’ interactive mock negotiation, featuring
 key international music industry figures from London and New York, and live virtual interaction
 with industry figures in LA and Austin. The Film Matters series has organised three film seasons,
 with various films screened accompanied by contributions from external industry figures such as
 the British Board of Film Classification and the former Chair of the charity Shelter, screened The
 Battle of Ancre in conjunction with The Imperial War Museum and premiered the film King Cnut:
 The Movie. Other recent events include the seminar ‘The Politics of Law and Doctor Who’ and
 annual lecture given by Sir Richard Arnold.

 The Westminster Law & Theory Lab brings together researchers working across disciplines on
 issues of law and space, law and art, law and the senses, and law and religion. The Lab hosts
 two online periodicals publications, Non-Liquet and the Westminster Law Review, and two open
 access book series published by Westminster University Press: French Theory and Law and the

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Senses. The Lab also organised two major conferences on Law and the Senses in 2014 and
 2016, and multiple events on such interdisciplinary intersections as law and art, activism,
 ecology, anthropology, new materialism, AI, etc. The Lab’s international outreach work is
 exemplified by a series of events on Nomos, Postcoloniality and Spatial Justice: Legacies of the
 Nomos of Apartheid, which were hosted in Cape Town and London during July–December 2019
 funded by the British Academy Newton Advanced Fellowship Scheme, with Lab members
 (Chryssostalis, Philippopoulos-Mihalopoulos) working with communities in Cape Town to help
 them organise local actions on spatial justice.

 The Centre for Law, Gender, Race and Sexuality originated in an AHRC-funded centre hosted
 between the Universities of Kent, Keele and Westminster, and was relaunched with the
 additional theme of race and funded by the Law School. The Centre brings together staff
 members and doctoral students with a research interest in the relationship between law, gender,
 race and sexuality using humanities methodologies, including philosophical, historical, doctrinal,
 literary and cultural research. It also hosts and facilitates the Law Post-Graduate and ECR
 Network. The Centre along with the Theory Lab played a leading role in the 2017 Westminster
 Difference Festival, an annual week-long festival at the University, staging the participatory
 action game The Soho Lawscape with more than 70 participants exploring the history of law,
 deviance and sexuality in Soho. With the financial support of the School, the Centre also
 spearheads the School’s BAME diversity agenda, in combination with decolonisation of the
 curriculum initiatives, through multiple activities such as staff training in diversity workshops,
 decolonisation auditing of all modules, and various committees under the umbrella Stop The
 Silence, which is the School’s bottom-up initiative for equality and diversity in recruitment,
 research and teaching.

 International Law at Westminster comprises academics and doctoral students working on
 areas of international legal scholarship and international economic regulation. The group’s
 contribution to generating innovative legal theory is evidenced by its membership of the EU Non-
 Proliferation Consortium, a network created in 2010 by the Council of the European Union,
 which brings together experts from across the EU to encourage political and security-related
 dialogue and long-term discussion of measures to combat the proliferation of weapons of mass
 destruction and their delivery systems. The research group also engages in a range of research
 and public engagement activities, including public events on topical international law
 developments such as the Gambia v. Myanmar case before the International Court of Justice,
 the Israeli-Palestinian conflict before international courts, the Chagos Islands Advisory Opinion,
 and the current crisis in nuclear arms control law. Finally, members have undertaken several
 major research projects receiving external funding. The project on International Law and Foreign
 Intervention in Civil Wars, for example, received funding from the Fritz Thyssen Foundation for a
 research assistant (Longobardo) in 2017-2019, who then became a full member of staff.

 Law, Development and Conflict Research Group promotes conversations and research
 collaborations between scholars, activists, professionals and communities to advance critical
 understandings of the complex relationships between international law, development and civil
 and military conflicts in the Global South. Beginning as a reading group in 2009, it has grown
 into a vibrant and active interdisciplinary research group with PhD and ECR researchers at its
 core. Recent activities include a series of six seminars on ‘Development and Conflicts in South
 Asia’ organised in collaboration with SOAS South Asia Institute (2019-20), and a study group on
 Decolonising Then And Now organised to respond to calls for decolonising curricula in
 academia. The group has organised film screenings and discussions (e.g. S. Vittoria’s Long
 Distance Revolutionary on Abu Jamal Mumia, America’s longest serving political prisoner, and
 Dhanraj’s The Advocate on democratic rights and the Maoist movement in India). Members also
 participate in several networks with diaspora communities in UK. For example, de Freitas e Silva
 is a member of the Brazilian Association of Students and Researchers, a network supported by
 the Brazilian embassy where she was invited to give a keynote address. D’Souza organised
 three consultation workshops with Tamil, Kurdish and Somali communities in the UK in 2015 to
 assess the impacts of anti-terrorism laws.


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The six research centres and groups realise our key research strategies and priorities in various
 innovative and cross-disciplinary ways. Our centres have contributed to innovative legal theory
 in several domains, including legal theory at large, international law, EU law, innovations in
 theorising law in the Global South and decoloniality, and interdisciplinary areas such as art and
 law, law and space or law and technology. Our socially-contextualised and practice-informed
 research can be seen in our engagement with the legal profession on equality and diversity
 issues and access to legal remedies, with national and international organisations on child
 protection, or with the Face-Value European Alliance for Ticketing, which ultimately led to
 revision of the e-Commerce EU Directive on secondary ticketing law. The global impact of our
 research is further manifested in our engagement with the institution of the ombudsman, which
 has had impact in Europe through joint and comparative initiatives, in our engagement with
 international courts like the ICC, and with the EU Network on nuclear non-proliferation issues,
 and in our engagement with social movements in the Global South.

 Interdisciplinary research

 Interdisciplinarity is at the core of our research strategy and recruitment policy, as evidenced by
 the ethos and practice of our research centres. Our research strives to contextualise legal
 developments by linking them to other disciplines, such as finance, politics, popular culture,
 literature, art and science. For example, conversations between law and the arts feature
 prominently as a field of interdisciplinary collaborations. In 2019, the Theory Lab organised
 Listen to the Artists!, a day of dialogues, open discussion and roundtables with ten invited artists
 and several legal theorists on the way in which art and law practices are contiguous. As part of
 the interdisciplinary experimental festival Crowd Control that took place over three weekends in
 June and July 2017, the Lab collaborated with Arebyte Gallery London and scientists, architects
 and planners from Central Saint Martins, Swansea, Imperial and Hong Kong Universities, as well
 as local communities and NGOs of Hackney Wick, to design the participatory activity game
 Escaping the Lawscape, subsequently performed at the Venice Art Biennale opening in May
 2019. The Law and Development Group has worked with artists to raise awareness about global
 justice issues. For example, the film Unrest co-produced by D’Souza and visual artist Paloma
 Polo on the displacement of indigenous peoples by development projects in the Philippines was
 exhibited in Madrid, Amsterdam and Manila. The group also worked with art education institute
 BAK and Jonas Stahl Studio Amsterdam towards The New World Summit, an art, law and
 politics event in Utrecht on stateless people, and the New World Embassy for the Oslo
 Architecture Triennale 2016 on open diplomacy between states. Funded by Public Art Norway
 and Fritt Ord Foundation at the National Theatre Oslo, the group hosted Public Calling on free
 speech, and the 2020 Shadow Munich Security Conference on securitisation and war at the
 Munich State Theatre. Finally, the Popular Culture Centre hosts the poet and performer Mike
 Garry as the Law School’s Writer-in-Residence, offering performances, seminars and inspiration
 for staff and students.

 Westminster Law School is, to the best of our knowledge, the only Law School with a final year
 Degree Show that takes place in a gallery space, the Ambika P3 Gallery at Westminster, where
 all (250+) final year undergraduate students, using creative media such as photography,
 painting. performance, installation and poetry, reflect on their legal research experiences and
 skills learnt. These student exhibits are supervised by personal academic tutors and designed to
 inculcate interdisciplinary thinking, research and practice, showcasing how we cultivate student
 research potential.

 We promote cross-fertilisation of ideas and theories across law, social sciences and
 humanities, including Law, Geography and Space (Philippopoulos-Mihalopoulos, D’Souza,
 Chryssostalis), Law, Theology and Religion (Bacquet), Law and Criminology (Kandelia, Roberts,
 Flacks), Law and Technology (Voiculescu, Mandic), Law and Corporeality/Sexuality (Brooks,
 Phillips, Samuels, Grewal), Law and International Relations, Development Studies and Security
 Studies (D’Souza), and Sociolegal Theory (Creutzfeldt, Greenfield, Osborn, amongst others).



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 At University level, the School has received significant project funding (£26.1K) and played a key
 role in developing four cross-disciplinary research communities established by the University
 in 2019: Sustainable Cities and the Urban Environment; Arts, Communication and Culture;
 Health Innovation; and Diversity and Inclusion (see REF5a). Such projects include:
 Philippopoulos-Mihalopoulos, along with three colleagues from Politics, Social Sciences and
 Visual Arts, for the project on Urban Mobility and the Margins; Osborn along with a colleague
 from English, for the project A Series of Disruptive Events, and with a colleague from
 Architecture for Programming Public Space; D’Souza (with funding matched by McGill University
 Canada) for Conflict Generated Diaspora, bringing together researchers from four Universities
 (Westminster, Open University, McGill, and British Columbia) and four disciplines (Law, IR,
 Gender Studies, Education). Additionally, Freeman secured funding (£24K) from the Quintin
 Hogg Trust – a charity that supports education at Westminster – and internal Strategic Research
 Investment Fund for two projects: Using research to improve outcomes for abducted children in
 2017; and The Voice of children and young people in decisions affecting their lives, in 2017-18;
 and Osborn received Quintin Hogg Trust funding, along with Greenfield, Ellins, Mandic et al, for
 Lost in Music (£23.5K).

 Open Research Strategy

 Our research strategy strongly emphasises the value of open access research and publications.
 In 2015, the University launched its own open access press, the University of Westminster
 Press, overseen by an academic board drawn from a range of disciplines (see REF5a). Both the
 Popular Culture Centre and Theory Lab have subsequently launched open access journals and
 book series with the press (e.g., Law and the Senses volumes are all free to download). Further
 examples of our commitment include the Lost in Music initiative, an open access resource
 helping musicians understand the music industry by providing accessible information and
 guidance, supported by the Quintin Hogg Trust and launched in the University’s historic Portland
 Hall in 2017.

 Impact Strategy

 Our impact strategy is based on our commitment to supporting research that is socially relevant
 and sensitive to wider societal needs. Both the Law School and the University have financially
 supported a range of impact activities, including the three submitted case studies. Following
 REF2014, the University annually allocated funding from its central Strategic Research Fund to
 each School for impact-related activities and public engagement. The Law School identified six
 research projects with potential for high impact and invested impact funds in knowledge
 exchange, community engagement, research uptake and engagement workshops. In 2019,
 further earmarked University funds of £20k were awarded on a competitive basis to potential
 case studies in order to develop their impact. The central Research and Knowledge Exchange
 Office (RKEO) also hosts a dedicated Impact Officer, with responsibility for facilitating impact
 activities, as well as assisting in the preparation of impact case studies for the unit.

 Our impact strategy is built around four core related themes:
 1. Build awareness of the different strands of research amongst target audiences and continue
 to secure the commitment of our stakeholders (beneficiaries and users). This includes, for
 example, the event co-organised and co-sponsored by Freeman with Dr Neoh, psychologist and
 secretary of the Australian Psychological Society's Family Law Group, preceding the Australian
 Chapter of the Association of Family and Conciliation Courts conference, Melbourne 2017, to
 address the problem of parental child abduction.
 2. Influence policy makers on key aspects of our research interests through our research
 centres. For example, we hosted a knowledge exchange workshop at Westminster with key
 stakeholders on access to justice for vulnerable consumers and energy poverty (Creutzfeldt)
 leading to a successful ESRC grant.
 3. Continue to encourage engagement and participation amongst our partner organisations and
 other academics. In most cases, impact is built into the design of the research project. For

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 example, D’Souza’s work on Law and Social Movements was undertaken with various global
 social movements, subsequently finding its way into labour education colleges, education NGOs,
 organisations of indigenous peoples and others, while Creutzfeldt’s research on access to
 justice for vulnerable consumers focuses on collaboration with local communities, NGOS and
 activists in Europe.
 4. Enhance our community outreach programmes through voluntary services for students and
 staff as facilitated by the University’s services, and our own School law clinic’s pro bono legal
 advice. For example, we organised a series of events at the South London Gallery on Spatial
 Justice and Homelessness in the London Borough of Southwark (Philippopoulos-Mihalopoulos
 collaborating with artists’ co-operative People’s Bureau) to address homelessness in London;
 and a Mexico workshop on the Movement in Defence of Indigenous Territories organised with
 the National Institute for Historical Anthropology (D’Souza) on defending indigenous peoples’
 rights to land.

 Significant impact has also been generated outside those projects covered in our case studies.
 For example, Flacks and Osborn were part of a team on a project commissioned by the Mayor of
 London/Night Time Commission, submitting a response to the House of Lords Select Committee
 Call for Evidence on the Licensing Act 2013. Lazowski has submitted evidence to the House of
 Lords in 2019 on external relations of the EU. Longobardo’s research on cyber law has been
 used by the ICC on several occasions

 Future Strategic Priorities

 Our key aims over the next five years include:

 1. Further developing our strengths in the areas of socio-legal studies, law and popular culture,
 law and theory, international law, law, gender and sexuality, law and religion, and law,
 development, conflicts and global justice through ‘seed-corn’ funding for new projects, events
 and targeted recruitment.
   o To achieve this, the Law School will continue to support the work of the six centres and
       extend its support to developing new research groups and emerging fields of research
       such as Law and Art, Law and Literature, Queer Studies, and Law and Social Movements.

 2. Engaging with the findings and deepening the impact of our Stop the Silence groups in our
 fight against structural and unintended discrimination at all levels of research, progression and
 everyday needs, thus further accommodating the needs of staff with special personal
 circumstances and protected characteristics.
   o This will be realised through a larger schedule of flexibility after maternity leave, for staff
        with young children, with caring responsibilities, and with disabilities; and through
        initiatives towards decolonisation of the curriculum and research and inclusivity in
        recruitment and progression.

 3. Further encouraging interdisciplinarity by forging new cross-disciplinary collaborations within
 Westminster and with external HEIs and other institutions, and encouraging more staff to get
 involved with the University’s interdisciplinary research communities and to bid for future
 projects.
   o We will increase funding allocation to interdisciplinary initiatives, intensify our funding
       application support, and develop our newly proposed doctoral programme Disciplinary
       Inclusion that aims at cross-disciplinary supervision structures across University.

 4. Improving external research grant income by supporting staff to apply for grants from a wide
 range of sources.
   o We will continue to offer feedback and support and organise grant writing workshops for all
       staff. The work entailed in making high-quality grant applications is recognised in workload
       allocation the year after an application is made.



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 5. Continuing to develop innovative methodology and research training for doctoral and Masters
 students.
   o In 2020, for example, we commissioned fiction author picpoet to write a short story as the
       narrative line connecting all classes in our newly convened intensive research methods
       module. Students and staff follow the development of the main character through various
       aspects of her everyday life and explore their sociolegal relevance.

 2. People

 Staff

 Our research strategy is characterised by an ethics of care towards staff and doctoral students.
 This entails a focus on mental health and well-being, networks of mutual support, and regular
 checks on individual needs and circumstances through mentoring, appraisal and informal
 network channels. Particular emphasis is placed on support for staff with protected
 characteristics. We offer flexible teaching time to free up research time; the majority of events
 are held during daytime when child-care is less of an issue. We have organised a series of all
 staff events with the mental health and resilience charity iheart, with further individual coaching
 follow-up sessions for all participating staff. Several of us have qualified in Mental Health First
 Aid.

 We benefit from the University’s well-being campaign that, especially during the pandemic,
 offers access to online yoga, meditation, well-being and other courses to mitigate the effects of
 continuous desk work, and which puts staff’s mental health and well-being at the centre of our
 concerns. Conscious of our social responsibility as a central London institution, we moved all
 activities online within a week following the initial March 2020 government COVID-19 measures,
 prioritising staff and student health, followed up in the Law School with regular checks on the
 mental and physical health of staff through team activities, email and departmental zoom
 meetings, and provision of home-office equipment when needed. We also set up smaller groups
 of mutual checking in, partly extending the activities of existing groups (such as the Women’s
 Lunch or the doctoral students Garden Teatime on Fridays, always on Zoom) and partly initiating
 ad hoc groups with specific needs.

 Our recruitment strategy since 2014 has been to appoint staff, with a particular emphasis on
 ECRs, who demonstrate congruence with the work of our research centres and are enthusiastic
 and able to take their research into the undergraduate and postgraduate curricula. Our support
 for ECRs is reflected, for example, in the funding through the Centre for Law, Society and
 Popular Culture of a two-year Post-Doctoral Teaching Fellow (Mandic), the International Law
 Group’s Research Assistant (Longobardo), and the Legal Profession Centre Research Assistant
 commissioned by the Law Society (Grewal), all now permanent staff. At the same time, we have
 sought to support more experienced researchers and, rather than overlooking existing
 colleagues and recruiting externally to senior positions, have aided their career progression to
 Reader and Professor. Since 2014, one BAME female staff has been promoted internally to
 Professor (D’Souza), five female staff promoted to Reader/Principal Lecturer (Creutzfeldt,
 Voiculescu, Samuels, Chryssostalis, Bacquet), and two female staff to senior lecturer (Brooks
 and Spreeuw). We have appointed five ECRs since 2014, four women and one man
 (Chronopoulou, Fowler, Grewal, Sancho, Howard).

 The School provides a Research Mentoring Scheme aimed at developing and enhancing
 individual research performance and maximising research impact at all levels. All research staff
 (including ECRs and fractional staff) are allocated a senior research mentor to help develop their
 research and profile through formal and informal meetings across the academic year. All
 mentors are trained so that they can support researchers in developing their research in a way
 that benefits their career development. Researchers are encouraged to submit their work
 (publications or grant applications) to their mentor for feedback. ECRs and doctoral students are
 also encouraged to take the PGCert for Higher Education. As well as providing invaluable
 support for ECRs, this mentoring strategy has resulted in the successful development of a

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 number of colleagues interested in pursuing a research career pathway (e.g. Pedamon,
 Bunbury).

 The provision of regular allocated time and the continuing support of individual staff to pursue
 research plans and objectives has been strengthened since 2014 through the implementation of
 the University’s transparent and finely calibrated workload allocation model, in which research
 hours are directly incorporated into staff timetables. Additional to this annual remission from
 teaching and other duties to undertake research, in 2015 the Law School introduced a
 sabbatical system supported out of QR and School funds. Since this has not been a standard
 feature at most post-92 universities, modifications in terms of time and responsibility allocation
 needed to be implemented. We are now in the position of offering one sabbatical term (or
 exceptionally two, if the project justifies it) for two staff each year, for which all staff, regardless
 of seniority, may apply. This has allowed a range of staff to complete major projects, including,
 for example, D’Souza’s Law, Social Movements and Liberal Imaginations (2016) and Bacquet’s
 Religious Symbols and the Interference of the Law (2017).

 All staff engaged in research can apply to the School Research Committee for individual
 research support. Applications must provide a clear programme of research as well as data on
 publications and plans for funding applications and income generation (through research funding
 and consultancies). Researchers are also asked to detail the reach and significance of their
 research outcomes to ensure documentation of its impact. ECRs are automatically allocated
 research support during their first year, along with a reduction in other responsibilities, and this
 can be extended through demonstration of achievable research plans. In addition, the School
 has a dedicated Research Fund to which staff apply for individual research purposes (in 2019-
 20, the sum was £1K per member of staff). Senior research staff are expected to be invited to
 conferences, and therefore funded to attend; most financial support is thus allocated to ECRs,
 allowing them to pursue research that it would otherwise have been difficult to find the time to
 undertake. Annual data on outputs, grant applications and other research-related activities are
 collected by the School Research Director, which is then fed back into the workload allocation
 model to ensure fair allocation of staff research hours.

 Our research strategy commits us to ethical good practice. All our research is planned and
 conducted in accordance with the University’s Code of Practice Governing Ethical Conduct of
 Research (see REF5a). This means that research-active staff with responsibility for supervising
 student research or in research governance posts have access to training and guidance in
 research ethics, along with additional access to appropriate and up-to-date training in health,
 safety and wellbeing associated with undertaking research, including data protection and
 confidentiality. The Law School has a designated research ethics champion who advises staff
 and doctoral students. A Law School staff member (Voiculescu) also chairs the College
 Research Ethics Committee.

 Our Research Centres receive a steady flow of academic fellow applications, offering
 collaborations, residencies, seminars, collaborative projects and doctoral supervision. During the
 current REF period, we have hosted several visiting staff who have enriched the School’s
 research culture. Examples include Professor Alison Young (Criminology, Melbourne, working
 on street art); Sir Richard Arnold (QC working on performers’ rights, who delivered an annual
 Westminster Lecture); Professor Nazira Camely (Economics, UFF, Niteroi, Brazil, working on
 Chicano farmers in Amazonia); Dr Olga Danylyuk (artist researching the war zone in Eastern
 Ukraine); Dr Riccardo Baldissone (legal academic who produced the monograph Farewell to
 Freedom with Westminster University Press, as well as several articles); and the preeminent
 licensing QC Philip Kolvin.

 Doctoral Students

 Research students are fully integrated into all our research structures and strategies. PGR reps
 sit on the School’s Research Committee, have access to funding for conference attendance and
 fieldwork, and benefit from mentoring and funding to organise events and take publishing

                                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 initiatives (such as the non liquet online series). Since August 2013, 38 doctoral researchers
 have completed their PhDs in the School. 26 students are currently enrolled: 4 are writing up, 1
 has submitted and is awaiting viva, and 4 have successfully defended their theses. Our doctoral
 programme focuses on academic legal research and, for this reason, completions do not include
 any research-based professional doctorates.

 Admissions to the PhD programme follow a rigorous process. Our recruitment strategy reflects
 our research goals of interdisciplinarity, innovation, equality, and geographical and ethnic
 diversity. We achieve this by offering competitive fee-waivers (four in 2014-15, two in 2019, two
 in 2020, for the duration of the programme) and fully-funded scholarships (one in 2019 and two
 in 2020). The School also hosted an internal fully-funded Quintin Hogg scholarship (£16k stipend
 pa plus fees) in 2017, and again in 2020.

 In 2012, Westminster established the university-wide Graduate School with the mission to
 enhance student experience and progress and, provide research training across the University.
 The Graduate School co-ordinates the Doctoral Researcher Development Programme through a
 range of customised workshops, individual sessions and PDP activities based on the national
 Vitae Researcher Development Framework. This is complemented by both School and College
 training programmes, which provide a series of discipline-specific sessions for researchers in
 Law. The Graduate School also runs a series of regular symposia and workshops on post-
 doctoral careers, with speakers from academia, business, UKRI, Vitae and London First, and
 organises the Graduate Assembly, meeting once per term, as well as an annual graduate Fair.
 For further details, including on annual progress stages, research ethics and integrity, and
 supervisory arrangements and expectations, see REF5a.

 In addition to the University training programme, the Law School supports its doctoral
 researchers by providing for:

    ●   Dedicated, quiet office space, integrated into our Little Titchfield Street Law School
    building but with independent access. In this way, a social space for students has been
    created as an environment conducive to community building and the informal exchange of
    ideas. Each student has a dedicated desk, networked PC and storage space.
    ● Two series of weekly staff and doctoral seminars, in which everyone (including students)
    is encouraged to circulate a draft paper or chapter in advance, present it at the seminar in
    front of faculty, and receive feedback.
    ● A series of methodology days, exploring different methodological and theoretical
    approaches to doctoral research, led by staff members who themselves research in the
    specific areas, such as quantitative/qualitative methods, ethnography, feminist
    methodologies, deconstruction, materialism. This complements a funded open invitation to
    IALS methodology course for all interested students.
    ● An annual Doctoral Symposium dedicated to presentations by doctoral students to
    faculty and fellow doctoral students, on the current state of their research.
    ● Dedicated conference attendance and fieldwork funding, complementing existing
    Graduate School funding and subject to specified criteria, such as satisfactory progression
    confirmed by the main supervisor and proof of relevance of conference attendance/fieldwork
    to the study.
    ● A bi-annual two-day stay at Cumberland Lodge, thematically organised around doctoral
    issues that cover both practical awareness and substantial issues of relevance to all
    students, free to all PGRs.
    ● Invitations to join the research centres, be an active part of their activities and organise
    events. PhD students and their research are profiled on the websites of the centres they are
    attached to, thus making their work known beyond the school.
    ● Multiple online communication channels such as WhatsApp and Facebook groups, also
    populated by permanent staff.

 The strength of student research in Law at Westminster has been recognised externally by
 several international bodies. For example: Grewal was invited to present at the 2017

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International Symposium on Gender, Law and Constitutions, organised jointly by UN Women
 and the United States Institute for Peace. Gray, who completed his PhD in 2014, was awarded
 the International Convention of Asia Scholars (ICAS) prize for his thesis ‘Justice and Transition
 in Cambodia, 1979-2014’, and the 2017 Early Career Research & Impact Award of the UK
 Association of Southeast Asian Studies. Sinclair won the 2016 SLSA poster competition. In
 2016, the year of his graduation, Elgebeily established the Centre for the Study of International
 Peace and Security. While still a student, Watt contributed to the Open Consultation on the
 United Nations Group of Governmental Experts (UN GGE) 2015. De Freitas e Silva delivered a
 keynote address on decolonising epistemologies at the Brazilian embassy. Baklanova published
 her thesis with Oxford University Press and became Associate Director at the Office of
 Financial Research, U.S. Department of the Treasury.

 Equality and Diversity

 We strive for intersectional balance along the lines of gender, sexuality, ethnic origin, disability
 and other protected characteristics. Our research strategy stipulates that the School supports
 measures for physical and intellectual as well as social inclusion in activities across all levels,
 and for all staff with protected characteristics to realise their full potential and career ambitions.
 Equality of opportunity to research and publish is promoted and delivered through our research
 mentoring scheme and the use of research support. Staff progression is further supported
 through the annual staff appraisal process.

 Colleagues with caring responsibilities can access part time/flexible working hours with
 agreement of the Head of School. Robust procedures are also in place to enable staff to
 disclose safely and confidentially any individual circumstances that may have affected their
 ability to research productively during the current REF period. Responsibility for ensuring fair
 and equal access to research resources lies with the Head of School, and is monitored, in turn,
 by the College Research Committee.

 Out of a total 34 staff with significant responsibility for research, 17 (over 50%) are women, and
 five (c.15%) are BAME, including one professor. In 2015, BAME staff across the University
 established the Black and Ethnic Minority Network to address feelings of isolation in different
 units and Schools. Our staff participate actively in the network, with Bunbury and Grewal also
 serving as members of the University BME Network Committee. The Law School’s Stop the
 Silence initiative supports academic staff and administration in ensuring that diversity and
 inclusion are implemented at all levels and for all activities. Toolkits, reading lists, and steering
 groups that focus on decolonisation, racial inclusion and Black History initiatives have been set
 up by our staff and are used as resources by all staff.

 The School’s REF submission is led by a senior BAME professor (D’Souza). The lead and
 internal reviewers who have taken part in the assessment of outputs for this submission have
 received training in all relevant aspects of equality and diversity for REF2021 as set out in the
 University’s Code of Practice. Quality of outputs was determined by peer review by at least two
 internal readers with a large sample also reviewed by two external advisors, and the whole body
 of outputs further reviewed by a team of three senior members of staff. Where evaluation
 resulted in the same grade, representation of staff with protected characteristics and different
 research areas within the School were taken into consideration in the final selection of outputs.

 International engagement on global justice issues has been extensive throughout the REF
 period. The primary focus of the activities of the Law & Development Group, for example, is
 justice for the Global South. The Group was spawned by the Third World in Theory reading
 group spearheaded by PhD students and ECR staff across different Schools and disciplines and
 remains an important initiative to include diversity in knowledge systems, methodologies and
 epistemologies beyond individual staff and students. Within the UK, the Legal Profession Centre,
 particularly through the research of Duff and Webley, has engaged the legal professional bodies
 on racial exclusion in the legal profession, leading to the Legal Services Board’s decision to
 introduce compulsory diversity reporting across all legal professional groupings.

                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Finally, we have paid particular attention to candidates with protected characteristics in the
 recruitment of doctoral candidates. Besides recruitment, the reading groups and research
 centres offer tailored methodological and theoretical inputs to help BAME and female students
 expand their knowledge base. For example, in 2020 the Law & Development Group reading
 group’s theme was Decolonising Methodologies: Then and Now. The Race and Gender Centre
 offers support on feminist theories and methods, and the Law & Theory Lab on postcolonial
 theories, to PhD students and staff working in those areas.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income

 All researchers benefit from access to a full-time Research Development Partner based in the
 RKEO, who identifies external funding opportunities and supports applications and by a
 specialised Post-Award Project Manager ensuring continuing support. We have put in place a
 supportive structure and feedback network for all colleagues intending to make an application:
 they first consult a senior member of the School for ideas and feedback, then discuss the project
 with the Head of School, and, finally, the application is assessed by a College-level peer review
 panel, composed of current and former members of RCUK Peer Review Colleges and staff with
 successful funding records.

 In order to support staff in their applications, training provided by both internal staff with grant
 experience and external experts has been made consistently available. Monthly specialised
 writing sessions are organised where staff sit together and write in collegial conditions, as well
 as develop their projects through feedback. We have also benefited from University-level
 provision of bid-writing and focused writing retreats. Time devoted to grant writing is recognised
 in our workload allocations, with time allowances allocated in recognition of the hours spent on
 grant applications.

 The research strategies adopted in 2014 and reimagined in 2017 (see Section 1) have
 succeeded in increasing our annual grant income, which has seen significant rise at the end of
 the REF2021 period compared to the beginning. During the first four years between 2013-14
 and 2016-17, the total research income was £142,373 (£35,593 yearly/average). This increased
 to £486,659 (£162,219 yearly/average) during the last three years between 2017-18 and 2019-
 20. Overall, absolute research income increased to £629,032 during the REF2021 period
 compared to £498,014 in REF2014. Funding feeds also into our more experimental projects,
 ensuring that we remain creative rather than being driven simply by the aim of securing funding
 as an end in itself. Key examples include:

    •   Creutzfeldt’s ESRC Future Research Leaders 3-year Fellowship, ‘Trusting the
        middleman: impact and legitimacy of ombudsmen in Europe’, 2013-2016 (£224.6K, last
        year of project at Westminster), paved the way for further funding from the ESRC on
        Access to Justice, Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR), and consumer vulnerability in
        the European energy sector, 2017-2020 (£449.2K). These projects supported successful
        grants on the administrative justice system through an ESRC IAA November 2018 (£4K)
        (with Thomas) and an AHRC Networking grant ‘Administrative Justice Network’ (£22K),
        April 2019–June 2020.
    •   Freeman won a British Academy grant to investigate the outcomes for children who were
        denied return under the 1980 Hague Convention 2017-18 (£50K).
    •   Osborn won HERA funding together with a colleague from Architecture (£100K); funding
        from GLA/Mayor of London for a project across law, criminology and architecture
        (£17.5K); the Global Challenges Research Fund for ‘Film Censorship in Kerala’, 2020
        (£31K). He also won a BA / Leverhulme Trust grant for ‘Film Censorship in Britain and
        India: Colonial Convergences, Contemporary Cleavages' (with Banerjee, Jindal Global
        University, £9.8K).


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Roscini secured funding from the Fritz Thyssen Foundation for ‘International law and
        foreign intervention in civil wars’, 2017-18 (€53.9K), and then a further £18K.
    •   Brooks received £30K funding from the AHRC on Research Ethics Methodologies.

 Infrastructure and facilities

 Our journey towards becoming a research-intensive school since the last REF period
 necessitated some major changes in physical infrastructure. As a result, the University
 undertook a £3.5 million redevelopment of the Law School buildings. While all staff already had
 individual office space in either single occupancy or shared offices in the School’s building in
 Little Titchfield Street in central London, efforts have been made to accommodate staff
 according to their research interests. Additionally, some of our research centres, such as the
 Popular Culture Centre, have exclusive areas where members work and meet.

 We understand that community building is important to promote existing and encourage new
 research collaborations. We now have a refurbished common room with kitchenette, and a
 meeting room, both of which are regularly occupied by our weekly seminars, writing groups and
 reading groups. Doctoral students benefit from an independent yet connected wing in the
 building for their exclusive use (see Section 2). The University has been regularly refurbishing
 the Law School café to make it more welcoming and accommodating, including, for example,
 extended catering services.

 The expanded and modernised Law Library with its specialist staff is located in the Law School
 building, part of the Social Science Library which gives access to a wide range of resources from
 different disciplines and supports the interdisciplinary research that takes place in the Law
 School. The library holds thousands of e-books and subscribes to a wide range of electronic
 journals that make flexible and home working for staff with special circumstances possible (see
 REF5a). Online support especially during the Covid-19 pandemic has been of exceptionally high
 quality.

 The University provides dedicated IT support for our research needs and especially for staff
 with special circumstances. These provisions have become much more extensive during the
 pandemic. Staff and research centres are provided with technology support for research projects
 including data management and data security. All staff have been moved from desktop
 computers to laptops and have also been given material support for homeworking, paying
 attention to data security protocols. Staff can access the latest versions of software for word
 processing, bibliographic software, Adobe Creative Cloud and meeting software like MS Teams
 and Blackboard Collaborate. Since the lockdown, we have further invested in Zoom software to
 facilitate workshops, meetings and events. Outlook 365’s cloud storage, document sharing,
 Microsoft Teams and Blackboard Collaborate are used daily by all staff, who have been provided
 with extensive training. We have dedicated channels on Teams for our Stop the Silence groups,
 research groups, research centres and a general one for social exchanges.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 We are engaged in a range of collaborative activities with external scholars and other
 stakeholders at both national and international levels. The clustering of our staff in the research
 centres structure allows for extensive collaborative research through organised events,
 publications, series editing, and various other forms of activity.

 Collaborations beyond HE

 Outreach work and especially collaborations with NGOs is a priority of our socially-
 contextualised research ethos. For example, Flacks is a member of Stopwatch’s campaign for
 fair policing, and advisor to the UN Study on Children Deprived of their Liberty. Osborn directly
 engaged with the All-Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Ticket Abuse, chaired by Sharon
 Hodgson. Philippopoulos-Mihalopoulos collaborated with The Southwark Law Centre, NHS

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 outreach teams, the 35% Campaign on Social Housing and the Sortition Foundation for the
 Home(lessness): Southwark Citizens for Spatial Justice project in 2019, culminating in the All
 Party Parliamentary Group for Ending Homelessness with Neil Coyle MP present. Freeman
 works with legal and medical professionals, judges and NGOs on child abduction. Creutzfeldt
 engages with ombudsmen, NGOs, charities and government departments on access to justice
 and energy poverty. These are just a few examples of the sense of social responsibility felt by
 our staff, and the need to use our academic and other privileges towards a better society.

 Engagement and collaboration with organisations beyond HE are a key part of our socially-
 contextualised, impactful and ethical research policy aims. We have managed to forge several
 links with art and culture, thus opening our research to a broader, different audience. Examples
 include D’Souza’s hosting of a conversation between women in Rojava (Northern Syria) and
 Palestine on Lives of women under military occupation at AZ Theatre in London. In 2017, Tate
 Modern commissioned five artists to respond to Philippopoulos-Mihalopoulos’s theory of
 Spatial Justice, dedicating a whole day to projects, performances and debates that included
 casual gallery visitors but also stakeholders (planners, developers and NGOs) of the local
 Elephant and Castle development. These connections are employed as a way of pushing more
 equitable policy agendas.

 Academic collaborations and contributions to research base, economy and society

 Our contribution to international research development is evinced by our staff’s extended
 membership of prestigious international organisations: Roscini is a member of the International
 Group of Experts, Oslo Manual on Select Problems of the Law of Armed Conflict, funded by the
 Norwegian Government (2015-2017), and of the International Law Association (ILA)’s
 Committee on Nuclear Weapons, Non-proliferation and Contemporary International Law.
 D’Souza is a core member of Campaign Against Criminalising Communities, which supports
 ethnic minority communities in dealing with the impacts of anti-terrorism laws, and was recently
 appointed to the academic advisory group to War on Want. Mackenzie is a member of the Legal
 Working Group on Liability for Environmental Harm from Activities in the Area (Deep Seabed
 Mining).

 Our staff are regularly invited to help form policy both nationally and internationally. Examples
 include Greenfield and Osborn’s research being cited in submissions to the DCSM
 parliamentary committee on music streaming (2020); Flacks’ contribution at a workshop on
 disproportionality in policing for the Mayor’s Office for Policing and Crime in December 2020;
 D’Souza’s speech on the Kurdish Question and the Crisis in the Middle East in the House of
 Lords, and on Democratic Confederalism in Turkey at the Houses of Parliament. Lambert was
 UN High Commissioner for Refugees Consultant (2014) with a project on Refugees and
 Arbitrary Deprivation of Nationality. Such work constitutes part of our Diversity Outreach
 programme, spearheaded by the Law & Development Group, including D’Souza’s advising the
 Anti-Caste Discrimination Alliance UK. A result of D’Souza’s involvement is the inclusion of
 caste discrimination in the Equalities Act 2010.

 Our European presence is attested by Osborn’s work leading to the adoption of the first EU
 ticketing law; Creutzfeldt’s role as advisor to the German Ministry of Justice for Consumer Law
 and BEIS; Lazowski’s oral evidence to the European and External Relations Committee of the
 Scottish Parliament about the implications of the UK potentially leaving the EU. The latter has
 been cited several times in the Report of the Scottish Parliament, in the written evidence to
 Foreign and Commonwealth Office in Balance of Competence Review, and written evidence to
 the House of Lords on Brexit. His European Law Review (2015) article ‘"Darling you are not
 going anywhere": the right to exit in EU Law’ was cited by Advocate General of the Court of
 Justice of the European Union in his opinion in case Petra. Roscini is a member of the National
 Agency for the Evaluation of Universities and Research Institutes, the REF’s Italian counterpart.

 Our Representation on Research Councils, Networks and other academic bodies include AHRC
 Peer Review College membership (D’Souza and Osborn); UKRI GCRF Global Challenges

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Panel (D’Souza); UKRI Peer Review College (Creutzfeldt); UKRI COVID-19 urgent calls
 (Creutzfeldt and D’Souza); and assessment panel participation for Greek submissions to
 REF2014 (Philippopoulos-Mihalopoulos). Roscini was a member of the AHRC Peer Review
 College (2010-2017) and Peer Review Committee, Evaluation of Quality of Research Exercise
 (VQR) 2004-2010 and 2011-2014.

 We have been invited to deliver prestigious keynote addresses at institutions such as the 2017
 FIN-NET plenary meeting (Creutzfeldt), the 2017 Geneva Disarmament Platform and Geneva
 Centre for Security Policy of United Nations (Roscini), the Humanities Council of Princeton
 University in 2017 (Philippopoulos-Mihalopoulos), and the First Global Forum on
 Statelessness: New Directions in Statelessness Research and Policy of UNHCR (Lambert); as
 well as such events as the 7th World Congress on Family Law and Children’s Rights in 2017
 (Freeman), the 2016 Law and Humanities Conference, University of Hong Kong (Samuels), the
 2014 Lund University Pufendorf Annual Lecture, and the Law, Literature and the Humanities
 Association of Australasia Conference in 2015 and again in 2019 (Philippopoulos-
 Mihalopoulos).

 We have won several awards for our research excellence. Examples include Freeman’s
 Association of Family and Conciliation Courts Tim Salius President’s Award 2016 for her
 empirical research on relocation and abduction, and Philippopoulos-Mihalopoulos’s IUCN
 Distinguished Environmental Law Education Global Award 2016.

 Several of our staff are editors-in-chief of major journals and book series including Entertainment
 and Sports Law Journal and the Routledge Studies in Law, Society and Popular Culture book
 series (Greenfield and Osborn); the OUP International Courts and Tribunal series (Mackenzie);
 the interdisciplinary open access journal Anthropocenes: Human, Inhuman, Posthuman, the
 Routledge book series Space, Materiality and the Normative, the Westminster University Press
 open access book series Law and the Senses (Philippopoulos-Mihalopoulos); and the journal
 Human Rights & International Legal Discourse (Smis).

 Several staff sit on editorial boards of prestigious journals such as European Papers, the open
 access New Journal of European Criminal Law, International Community Law Review, Law &
 Critique, Journal of Human Rights and the Environment, open access Critical Legal Press and
 Athens Journal of Law, Revue de Droit Africain, Public Law, Journal of Critical Realism and
 Interface: Journal of and for Social Movements, and International Community Law Review.

 Our staff have acted as external examiners for more than 30 PhDs at national (Oxford,
 Cambridge, KCL, SOAS, QMUL, Birkbeck, Leeds, Stirling, Gloucestershire, Manchester, Kent,
 etc) and international universities (Leiden, Lund, Melbourne, NWU, Verona, Oslo, European
 University Institute, amongst others).

 Finally, our media contributions show the relevance of our research for the important political
 issues of the time: Mason appeared on BBC Radio 4 ‘Splitting the Assets’, along with Sir Paul
 Coleridge, Lucy Reed and Nicola Matheson-Durrant; Glinavos spoke on Brexit on the BBC
 Radio 4 Today Programme and was interviewed by Sky News on the Greek Referendum;
 Creutzfeldt spoke on the BBC Radio 4 Moneybox programme; Lazowski was Interviewed on
 the main programme of Swiss TV (June 2016) and for French Radio (June 2016); D’Souza was
 interviewed on TRT TV, the Turkish national English language television, and in The
 Conversation on Indian elections; Philippopoulos-Mihalopoulos was interviewed on
 France24’s main evening news programme on French security law; Brooks appeared on Radio
 5 Takeover to discuss consent; and Flacks gave a newspaper interview for iNews on Stop and
 Search in the UK lockdown.

 Major Collaborative Events at Westminster

 We benefit from our staff’s extensive networks to organise high-profile international events of
 major theoretical and empirical importance. Our Research Centres each host annual series of

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 events, such as the 2017 event You, Robot! What Does it Mean to Regulate Artificial Intelligence
 focussing on LISA, the world’s first impartial robot lawyer, launched by Chrissie Lightfoot who
 was also on the panel. The event was part of a series focusing on Artificial Intelligence, Ethics
 and the Law, as was the screening of The Trial of Superdebthunderbot by artist Helen Knowles,
 a film shot in a court of law with scripted advocates and witnesses, drawing on issues of
 technology, law and the posthuman, followed by a debate amongst invited experts.

 Examples of other relevant legal research events include the 2017 conference Righting Wrongs:
 Enforcing Human Rights, Administering Justice, with speakers including Rogier Bartels and
 Edward Jeremy from the International Criminal Court; the 2015 French Reform of Contract Law
 under the auspices of the French Embassy in the UK; and the 2016 Extradition under the
 European Arrest Warrant, organised with the Franco-British Lawyers Society. These events
 enriched the research of several of our staff, such as Pedamon’s recent publications on French
 Contract law and McLean’s forthcoming book Human Security and International Law: The Role
 of the United Nations.

 Finally, our interdisciplinary events are a major source of inspiration for staff research projects:
 the two-day 2016 international conference Law and the Senses has led to the establishment of
 the Law & Theory Lab’s book series Law and the Senses; the 2014 symposium on the Politics
 and Law of Doctor Who has facilitated Nicol’s socio-legal publications on Doctor Who; the 2017
 debate on 'The Place of Religion in Secular Society: from Dialogue to Tolerance', with noted
 speakers such as the Reverend Canon Michael Hampel, St Paul’s Cathedral, proved invaluable
 for Bacquet’s Religious Symbols and the Interference of the Law monograph.




                                                                                              Page 16
