Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Gloucestershire

 Unit of Assessment: 32

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 This is the first REF submission from the School for Art and Design since RAE2008. In 2014,
 we made the strategic decision to prioritise creative practice research and have systematically
 developed a strong community over the last six years. Our REF2021 submission includes
 contributions from 14 researchers, many also prominent practitioners in their fields, and
 represents an increase from 3.4 FTE, at the start of this REF cycle in 2014, to 7.8 FTE in 2020.

 This growth in capacity has been enabled by an investment of £1.8 million in our new Hardwick
 Gallery. In addition, we have made a series of strategic hires and introduced development
 initiatives designed to recognise new potential, as well as nurture and support the research
 aspirations of existing staff. We have prioritised a specific focus on, and developed expertise in,
 practice as research along with scholarship about contemporary creative practice.

 The success of this approach is evidenced by the range of high-profile practice and scholarly
 outputs generated over the last six years, including:

    •   Over 30 exhibitions and public commissions across the UK and internationally, as well as
        50 exhibitions and events at Hardwick Gallery.
    •   A diverse range of internationally acclaimed and disseminated creative practice,
        including a feature film and graphic novels.
    •   A local and regional community engagement programme that brings contemporary art to
        hard-to-reach and marginalised audiences.
    •   Scholarly monographs, edited collections, exhibition catalogues, academic journal
        articles and conference presentations on aspects of contemporary practice.

 Unit Context and Structure

 The School of Art and Design has its roots in the Cheltenham School of Art, which was founded
 in 1852 and became part of the University of Gloucestershire in 1990. Our research heritage
 evolved from the field of drawing, notably through the work of Prof Anita Taylor from 1991 to
 2003. Highlights of this period include initiating the Trinity Buoy Wharf Drawing Prize (formerly
 Jerwood Drawing Prize) in 1994 and the establishment of strong discourses around practice
 research in drawing, including collaboration with leading authorities such as Deanna
 Petherbridge. This heritage continued through Drawing Projects (Black Dog, 2011) co-authored
 by current staff member, Jack Southern, and now on its fourth reprint.

 Our cross-cutting research expertise now extends across both practice-based research and
 scholarship. Our researchers examine the nature of contemporary creative practice across
 several disciplines and specialisms. Our REF2021 submission details contributions to practice
 and theory in the following areas:

    •   Fine Art: Bick, Brennan, Cullinan, Fisher, Geddes, Pryor, Southern, Wood
    •   Lens-based media: Billingham, Murray, Nevill, Peck
    •   Illustration: Obata

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •    Curation: Bick, Bowden, Boyd, Cullinan, Fisher Geddes, Pryor
    •    Twentieth century art history: Bick, Cullinan, Geddes, Pryor, Wood

 The range of our contributions, and associated cultural or societal impacts, is a direct result of
 our strategic decision to develop practice as research more systematically across the entire
 School and embed it in our approach to leadership and management. This strategy has guided
 our staff recruitment and development policy over the past six-year period and is now integrated
 into the wider culture of the School. During the same period, this also became recognised as a
 broader institutional priority through the Creative Practice as Research priority area. Our Head
 of School (Angus Pryor) and Director of Research (Andrew Bick) are both high profile
 practitioners who also make significant scholarly and theoretical contributions, as evidenced in
 their submitted outputs:

    •    Angus Pryor undertakes practice-based research on the role of the arts in biblical
         interpretation, in partnership with leading theological scholars, as well as through his own
         practice as a painter and his curatorial projects. He also documents his research
         processes through conventional academic publication routes and, additionally, publishes
         on creative practice as research.
    •    Andrew Bick is a prominent figure in contemporary abstract painting and curating who
         exhibits internationally, attracts high profile commissions and makes theoretical
         contributions on constructivism, concrete art and Systems through leading journals and
         scholarly publishers.

 Our PhD Director (Julia Peck) and the Director of Hardwick Gallery (Sarah Bowden) are also
 fully research active in their fields and included in the submission:

    •    Julia Peck combines her own practice with a strong academic publication track record
         on landscape photography and is active in the discipline through her membership of the
         advisory board of the journal, Photographies.
    •    Sarah Bowden is an early career researcher who directs Hardwick Gallery and has won
         multiple external grants to support innovative public engagement projects. These
         initiatives all encourage residents of deprived local communities in Cheltenham to
         become actively involved with the contemporary arts.

 Across the School of Art and Design, research potential or an established track of record of
 scholarly outputs is now a key criterion for staff recruitment and promotion. In order to attract
 practitioners who are fully engaged in their fields, we facilitate fractional contracts for research-
 active staff in order to combine the benefits of a secure academic post with an ongoing
 commitment to creative practice. Most of our submitted staff (11 out of 14) are on factional
 contracts that range from .2 to .8 FTE. Our research community is further enhanced by:

     •   our cohort of 14 research students
     •   a group of emerging researchers (especially in landscape architecture) being supported
         to develop research independence over the next REF cycle
     •   a wider community of practice researchers across the University, most notably from the
         Schools of Media and Performing Arts




                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research and Impact Strategy
 We recognise the additional value that a deep professional engagement with the creative sector
 brings to the School of Art and Design, the University of Gloucestershire, our local community,
 and wider region. Given the emphasis we place on creative practice research, our research and
 impact strategies are fully integrated. It is a core part of our strategy that outstanding
 scholarship should routinely underpin all of our creative practice outputs, and that our research
 should also engage a range of non-academic audiences – locally, nationally and internationally.

 Practice-based research that achieves this level of reach and impact is time, space and labour
 intensive, and needs investment. Our aim is to maintain a flexible and productive interface with
 our researchers, who frequently lead their fields in an independent capacity. Such researchers
 see the academic institution as a partner that recognises the distinctiveness of their knowledge
 production. We achieve this through a variety of mechanisms, which were all introduced as part
 of our 2014 research strategy:

    •   A £1.8 million investment in our Hardwick campus including Hardwick Gallery and
        associated website (both launched in 2014), which nurtures and supports practice-based
        projects; hosts critical and social events; maintains online research resources, and acts
        as a hub that facilitates local community engagement with contemporary arts.
    •   An invigorated PhD programme, with a new practice pathway (introduced in 2017), and
        an international community of research students (including some with external funding)
        which has grown from two to 14 students over the last six years.
    •   Leadership of the University of Gloucestershire’s Creative Practice as Research
        Priority Area, established in 2014, which guides this specialist form of research
        development by managing and distributing resources to support practice-based research
        across the University’s wider academic community.
    •   Strategic partnerships with local and regional organisations to bring contemporary art to
        residents of Gloucestershire and the surrounding areas.

 This means that most of our submitted outputs also demonstrate direct engagement with a
 range of non-academic audiences, via routes that range from prestigious public galleries with an
 international standing to activist projects in partnership with marginalised communities.
 Underpinning this is a commitment to equality, inclusivity and diversity that means the examples
 of research cited below also focus on issues of identity and inclusivity in a wide range of
 contexts. As well as important contributions to cultural heritage and the creative industries, we
 have developed specialisms in forms of social engagement, which directly address issues such
 as the environment, poverty, gender, and religion. Some indicative examples follow:

    •   Jessie Brennan’s year-long residency with Metal to support The Green Backyard
        community garden in Peterborough, as volunteers campaigned for its survival. The
        project resulted in an exhibition of cyanotypes, oral recordings of those involved in the
        campaign, an installation, and an edited collection of essays to accompany the project
        (2015-2016).
    •   Fumio Obata’s illustrated reportage on environmental disasters (particularly the 2011
        Fukushima disaster) was published regularly in an Italian national periodical and was the
        focus on exhibitions in France and Cumbria (in deliberate proximity to the Sellafield
        nuclear plant) between 2014 and 2019. Obata has recently been awarded a sabbatical



                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        through the Creative Practice as Research priority area to support a full-length graphic
        novel based on this project.
    •   Study leave for Richard Billingham helped generate a Leverhulme Fellowship worth
        £23,000 and supported development of his critically acclaimed and award-winning
        feature film Ray & Liz (2018), which provides an authentic account of urban poverty and
        marginalisation in the UK. His pilot project, the gallery installation Ray, was also shown
        at Hardwick Gallery in 2015. Also see ICS Glos 32.1.

 The success of this strategy and its associated investments is evident in the increase in our
 externally funded research projects and prestigious commissions. Some highlights include:

    •   Contemporary arts exhibitions and events that are international in scope for our local
        area and region. These have been conducted in partnership with: the RWA (Bristol); the
        Wilson (Cheltenham); the We Create initiative (Cheltenham), and our own on campus
        Hardwick Gallery.
    •   Contracts with prestigious publishing houses including Jonathan Cape (Obata), Hatje
        Cantz (Bick, Wood) and Sternberg Press (Cullinan).
    •   International awards for Murray (Saddleworth Moor: Responding to a Landscape) and
        Billingham (both for Ray & Liz and his gallery-based work).
    •   Multiple public commissions and residencies, including: Cullinan (Cooper Gallery
        Summer Residency, Dundee; Bick (Crown Estates, London), and Brennan (Metal,
        Peterborough).
    •   External funding from Arts Council England, Leverhulme Trust, National Lottery and
        Cheltenham Borough Council for a range of practice-based projects.
    •   Disciplinary and arts leadership roles including the Cheltenham Sculpture Trust
        (Bowden), Forest of Dean Sculpture Trust (Bowden), Tannery Arts Board/Drawing Room
        Advisory Board (Bick) and the academic journal, Photographies (Peck).

 Within the University of Gloucestershire, we are also active contributors to the institutional
 research priority area, Being Human, Past Present and Future, which supports some our more
 traditional scholarly activities, such as academic conference attendance.

 As we move into the next REF period, we continue to build our academic community and
 develop existing staff on the same basis, with increasing emphasis on supporting:

    •   emerging practice researchers to develop rigorous dissemination strategies, with
        equivalence to academic peer review, through exhibition, curation, film and alternative
        publishing.
    •   all staff to secure external funding from arts, charitable and research funding sources.
    •   a growing cohort of research staff and research students from diverse backgrounds with
        research speaking directly to under explored cultural interfaces.

 Through the Creative Practice as Research priority area and within the School of Art and
 Design, we will develop tailored support packages for individual researchers, depending on their
 needs. For example:




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Mentoring by experienced practice researchers with an outstanding track record in
        specific areas, such as PhD supervision, fundraising, community engagement, academic
        publication, or securing commissions.
    •   Encouraging some practitioners to formalise their knowledge and research skills by
        undertaking research degrees.
    •   Providing specialist professional support for both grant-writing and engagement
        strategies.
    •   Research students will be encouraged to participate in and contribute to staff research
        projects in order to build their own practice and experience

 While our research outputs are diverse in terms of creative focus, we have established collective
 expertise across four cross-cutting themes over the last six years, which we will develop (and
 formalise where appropriate) over the next REF cycle:

    •   Socially engaged practice and scholarship addressing the impact of creativity in
        contexts such as marginalised communities, poverty and environmental activism.
        Bowden’s public engagement projects in the St Peter and St Paul’s neighbourhood of
        Cheltenham are a strong example of this and the subject of an impact case study (see
        ICS Glos 32.2).
    •   Interdisciplinary projects with scholars and researchers from different fields with strong
        emphasis on creative practice as a tool for interpretation. This continues the legacy of
        Brennan’s environmental activism in contested urban sites or Pryor’s collaboration with
        theological scholars.
    •   Curatorial projects that bring word-class contemporary visual arts to the South West
        and re-contextualise legacies in relation to contemporary understanding, such as Fishers’
        forthcoming curatorial project on Ken Kiff for the RWA in Bristol in 2023.
    •   Overlooked or neglected forms and artists, notably Bick’s ongoing re-examination of
        the legacies of underknown female artists, such as Marlow Moss and Gillian Wise.

 The success of our current research strategy, as evidenced by our submitted research outputs
 and the activities described in this narrative, ensures a strong basis for growth over the next
 REF cycle.

 2. People

 As a point of comparison, our submission has grown from 6 (3.4 FTE) in January 2014 to 14 (7.8
 FTE) on 1st August 2020. This leaves us with a community of creative arts researchers, who are
 active across a range of disciplines and collaborate widely within academia and across the arts
 and creative industries.

 Since 2014, we have developed our hiring, staff development and promotion strategies to create
 a distinctive community of 14 fully independent researchers, as follows:

    •   Five members of our REF2021 UOA have been hired directly onto research contracts
        since 2014 (Brennan, Fisher, Peck, Cullinan, Nevill and Wood).
    •   Four members of our UOA have transferred to contracts that recognise their status as
        independent researchers since 2014 (Bowden, Boyd, Murray, and Obata).
    •   Two members of our UOA were promoted during the REF2021 cycle (Bick and
        Billingham).

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Active researchers whose outputs were not part of any University of Gloucestershire
        submission to REF2014 formed the core of a new research community in the School of
        Art and Design (Bick, Billingham, Pryor, Southern).

 The strength of our submission is linked to our deliberate policy of offering secure fractional
 contracts to deeply engaged practitioners with an established research track record or
 intellectual component to their creative practice. This allows individuals to continue their creative
 practice while holding an academic post, which includes a 20% research allowance. These
 fractional staff are also given full access to all research resources, encouraged to apply for
 promotion and take on leadership roles that help develop the capacity and skills of emerging
 researchers.

 As a parallel initiative, we actively identify research potential in those members of staff on
 teaching contracts and facilitate their research development with a view to moving across to
 research contracts. In addition, we have recognised the need to develop leadership capacity
 among female researchers and enhance the diversity of our community across a number of
 dimensions.

 Included in our submission are two researchers at 0.2 FTE, Professor Charlotte Cullinan and
 Dr Jon Wood, each with international reputations, for Cullinan in exhibiting and curating, for
 Wood as a writer and curator. Cullinan and Wood both have longstanding research relationships
 with members of our existing staff and add a breadth of insight and range of institutional
 connections that have brought fresh impetus to our community. Cullinan also brings additional
 value as our only female professor and as a researcher who focuses on the feminine as a
 concept. Our submission also includes an output by Stewart Geddes, a 0.2 FTE Senior Lecturer
 who withdrew from a permanent University contract during the census period but remains
 involved as a visiting lecturer.

 Key outcomes of our staffing policy include:

    •   Leadership roles for female staff, notably Sarah Bowden and Julia Peck, adds
        considerable energy and insight to our research culture.
    •   Support for Boyd and Obata to move to research contracts in this REF cycle and Dr
        Ying Li to work towards independent research status (with a view to inclusion in the next
        REF) represents small but significant progress towards a more diverse research
        community.
    •   Promotion of Richard Billingham to Professor (2014) and Andrew Bick to Reader (2015)
        brings research leadership in Film and Photography and Fine Art respectively, as well as
        across the School more generally.

 Since 2014, we have introduced a number of specific mechanisms that support our aim to
 develop research potential and capacity amongst our existing community of academic staff. A
 School-level research steering group supervises the internal project bidding process and
 provides formal internal peer review as well as guidance, mentoring and feedback. Depending
 on which projects take root (by generating external commissions, funding or conference
 invitations), staff are invited to transfer to a research contract.




                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Firstly, we identify and develop promising new projects through an open process of application
 for seed funding to support initial research development. This is particularly useful for early
 career researchers. Secondly, selected advanced projects are internally funded through
 research priority areas, with time bought out of teaching as well as material or production
 support where required. Open calls for study leave of up to six months have facilitated extensive
 research projects with international reach, which require a sustained time commitment and
 travel. Successful projects are identified through their potential to attract external funding.
 Bidding, particularly for Arts Council England project grant schemes, has enhanced and
 developed several of our key research outputs. Some notable successes have included:

    •   Bick: Creative Practice as Research priority area funding to produce a monographic
        survey of his recent work with publisher, Hatje Canz, based on three exhibitions
        (including at Museum Haus Konstruktiv in Zurich) as well as an Arts Council England
        grant for a survey exhibition on Systems art at The Wilson, Cheltenham.
    •   Billingham: Being Human priority area funding for the completion of the internationally
        acclaimed and award-winning feature film, Ray & Liz (see ICS Glos 3.1).
    •   Peck: Creative Practice as Research funding to produce a chapter for the edited
        collection, Northern Light: Landscape, Photography and Evocations of the North (Goldie
        and White 2021).
    •   Southern: seed funding for Drawing an arc through our digital lives, in partnership with
        Dryden Goodwin at The Slade School of Art.
    •   Brennan Creative Practice as Research funding for developing a work at Sound Camp
        2019, which linked London Bridge Station with Stave Hill Ecological Park, London
        through a relay of dawn chorus birdsong.

 Our postgraduate programme has kept pace with the upward trajectory of staff research. Five
 PhDs (one international) and one Masters’ by Research candidates have successfully completed
 their programmes over this REF cycle and we currently have 14 PhD students in progress,
 including two of our own research staff. Twelve of our current PhD students sit within the School
 of Art and Design, with a further two collaborative students supervised in partnership with
 Creative Writing (in the School of Humanities) and the Countryside and Community Research
 Institute. Our cohort of PhD students is diverse, with recent completing students from Delhi and
 new recruits from China in both Fine Art and Design. Parsons (supervised by Bick and Pryor)
 has received an external bursary of £18,000 from The Mike Holland Trust and continues to be
 an active contributor to externally-supported projects.

 Several new initiatives have facilitated the success of our research degree programme:

    •   In 2017, we made changes to the University Research Degrees regulations to allow for a
        clearer route to Practice as Research Degrees and the PhD by Publication routes.
    •   Under the leadership of Julia Peck as PhD Director, we have matched experienced and
        high-profile post-graduate research supervisors with earlier career researchers, in order
        to develop our supervision capacity.
    •   Recent hires all have a strong record of supervision, notably James Fisher, who
        completed a PhD with us in 2006, went on to lead Fine Art at the University of Worcester,
        and is now supervising and examining PhD students at Gloucestershire. Our academic
        staff are also co-supervising at the University of Worcester and Kingston University and
        we have a strong record of external PhD examination, including the University of Oxford,
        the Royal College of Arts and The Slade School of Art.

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The School of Art and Design, often in partnership with Hardwick Gallery, offers a series of
 symposia, workshops and research events that are open to staff and research students alike.
 Some indicative examples follow:

    •   Bad Ideas is a monthly interdisciplinary study group for staff and students, organised by
        Hardwick Gallery, with topics including migration, feminist texts, intersectionality,
        capitalism, post-colonial thinking, and the climate crisis.
    •   Revising History (2015) a programme that included exhibitions of new moving image
        work (including Richard Billingham’s Ray), a symposium with external speakers and a
        panel discussion at The Wilson, Cheltenham.
    •   Speculative Art School (2019) led by Sarah Bowden and Jean Boyd took a critical look at
        the materials used in creative practice and included field trips, screenings, talks and
        workshops.

 In summary, our combined strategy of strategic hires; recognising the research potential and
 achievements of existing staff; providing appropriate and targeted investments and building our
 PhD programme has paid dividends in creating the community of 14 researchers and 12
 research students that underpins this submission.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Before 2014, the School of Art and Design had no track record in attracting research funding,
 compared to the £48,000 in eligible research income reported as part of our REF2021
 submission. Since 2014 we have received a series of prestigious grants, which have facilitated
 some of our outstanding research outputs as well as our highly effective impact and engagement
 activities. In addition to reported income, our creative practice outputs have attracted
 approximately £600,000 in additional investment, awarded directly to our researchers as
 individuals or via museums, film production companies or publishing houses etc. An important
 aspect of our growth strategy has been the use of internal seed funding or study leave to
 generate significant levels of external investment. We have also used Hardwick Gallery and
 website, part of a £1.8 million investment programme during this REF cycle, as a springboard for
 emerging research projects.

 A summary of the awards made directly to the School of Arts and Design within the REF period
 follows (some wholly or partly reflected in the research income reported with this submission):

    •   Multiple grants, including awards from the National Lottery and Arts Council England
        for Sarah Bowden to support community arts projects in the deprived Cheltenham wards
        of St Peter’s and St Paul’s (worth almost £50,000 in total) as well as a recent award from
        Cheltenham Borough Council to support the redevelopment of the Honeybourne line
        footpath over the next three years (worth £23,750). See ICS Glos 32.2.
    •   Leverhulme Fellowship of £23,000 for Billingham to support development of his
        critically acclaimed feature film Ray & Liz, released in 2018.
    •   Arts Council England project grant for Andrew Bick to curate The Order of Things in
        2017, a survey exhibition based around the Systems art movement at The Wilson,
        Cheltenham (£10,000).




                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Arts Council England finding for Fumio Obata to support public engagement for his
        second graphic novel, The Garden, published in 2020 (£10,000).
    •   £18,000 bursary from the Mike Holland Trust to support a PhD for artist Jonathan
        Parsons, supervised by Andrew Bick and Angus Pryor.

 Every creative practice output included in this submission received external financial support in
 the form of commissions, exhibitions, publications or residencies. Some highlights include:

    •   Billingham’s feature film Ray & Liz, was supported by a production budget of around
        £350,0000 from a range of sources, including the British Film Institute (also see ICS
        Glos 32.1).
    •   Bick’s Museum Haus Konstruktiv exhibition in Zurich (2017) was supported by a
        budget of £70,000 while his public commission in Piccadilly, London (2018) for The
        Crown Estates, was supported by a £130,0000 production budget.
    •   Cullinan’s project with Cooper Gallery, Dundee was supported by a budget of
        approximately £10,000 from sources including Henry Moore Foundation, Creative
        Scotland, and Dundee City Council
    •   Pryor’s research trips to Ethiopia for Enoch: God’s Messenger were funded by a British
        Academy/Leverhulme grant awarded to his collaborator, Prof. Phillip Esler.
    •   Obata’s first graphic novel was commissioned by Jonathan Cape in the UK with a
        further seven editions and/or translations published in other countries from 2014
        onwards.

 Our success in building and extending our research culture and engagement activities has been
 strongly underpinned by a £1.8 million investment in our infrastructure, principally Hardwick
 Gallery, which opened in 2014. This flexible on-site gallery and associated website acts as a
 platform for external exhibition programming, experimental staff practice research and post-
 graduate research. Hardwick represent an important resource that permits careful dissemination
 and documentation of projects and research processes. Almost 50 separate events and
 exhibitions led by staff, students and visitors have taken place from 2014 onwards including:

    •   Enoch - Heaven’s Messenger: Angus Pryor (2020) – an online exhibition and online
        catalogue hosted by Hardwick Gallery, which replaced scheduled exhibitions in
        Gloucester and Canterbury Cathedrals during the Covid-19 pandemic.

    •   Studio Models Part 2: Dr James Fisher and Kate McLeod (2019-20) - a collaboration that
        forms part of Fisher’s ongoing interrogation of the nature of authorship in creative
        practice. Fisher made character models, relating to the Japanese phenomenon of
        kigurumi. These were mailed to McLeod’s studio in Scotland, where she made second
        versions in ceramic. The suite was then organised into a series of diptychs, setting up
        conversations between the models and their ‘ghosts’.
    •   Nature Electric: Julia Peck and Stephen Bear (2017) - a thirty-minute film about
        Dungeness in Kent, which examines our relationship with (and consumption of) electricity
        as part of a complex human relationship with ecologies.

 Hardwick also hosts a series of research events and symposia and acts as a community hub for
 local residents. The most notable of these is the We Create initiative led by Sarah Bowden.
 Hardwick hosted the Museum of St Peter’s and St Paul’s, created by local schools, in 2017.

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Meanwhile online editions of community newspaper, Mudlarking, produced and edited by artist
 collective, Paam (2020) are available for download on the website. See ICS Glos 32.2 for more
 details.

 Creative practice research in art and design is space, time and labour intensive and we have
 made considerable investment in materials and production costs through at least 30 internal
 seed funding grants and three study leave packages over the REF cycle. These investments
 have all helped generate the outcomes reported in this section.

 As a parallel initiative, we have also expanded the capability of the University’s research
 repository (eprints.glos.ac.uk) to accommodate the complex sets of images, video, audio and
 text that best represents creative practice. This provides open access formats and functionality
 that allows time and site-specific visual research content to reach a variety of audiences.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  Our strategy of hiring and promoting staff who are deeply embedded in a community of artistic
 and creative practice means that our research has both collaboration and engagement with non-
 academic audiences at its heart. We see creativity as a key factor in increasing social inclusion
 and a catalyst for greater equality. We have placed an emphasis on supporting research led by
 women and those of different ethnicities. Museum or gallery exhibitions, non-academic
 publishing, school workshops, film and broadcast media, activism, public art commissions and
 community initiatives for hard-to-reach groups are amongst the diverse ways we engage with a
 wide range of audiences.

 Collaboration

 Our collaborations cut across different disciplines and academic institutions as well as arts
 organisations, museums, galleries and the creative industries – at local, regional, national and
 international levels.

 In terms of cross-disciplinary collaborations, our staff work with scholars from a range of
 disciplines and integrate creative practice investigations with more conventional empirical and
 theoretical contributions to knowledge. For example:

   •   Pryor has a longstanding collaboration with theologian, Prof. Phillip Esler (also
       University of Gloucestershire) that resulted in both an exhibition of twentieth century
       biblical art at The Wilson, Cheltenham (2015) and a British Academy funded project
       leading to a series of paintings and academic publications based on 1 Enoch (2020).
   •   Brennan works closely with researchers in environmental studies and urban planning
       (Birkbeck and UEL) on activist and community engagement projects in contested urban
       sites, such as The Green Backyard in Peterborough and Robin Hood Gardens in London.
   •   Southern has collaborated with Kate MacFarlane, of Drawing Room, London, has a
       sustained research dialogue with Dryden Goodwin (UCL), and has published with Dr Gill
       Gibbon (Leeds Beckett University).

 In terms of non-academic collaborations, we have a formal partnership in place with the Wilson,
 Cheltenham, which has resulted in three exhibitions and a series of symposia, outreach
 programmes and public lectures themed around the contemporary arts. During this REF cycle

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 we also enjoyed a productive relationship with the RWA in Bristol through Stewart Geddes (as
 the Academy’s President). This resulted in the highly successful show, Albert Irvin and Abstract
 Expressionism. We also work closely with local organisations, such as the Forest of Dean
 Sculpture Trust, the Cheltenham Public Sculpture Trust and Cheltenham Borough Council,
 including through formal consultancy contracts and board memberships.

 Research Base

 As a relatively small UOA making its first REF submission since 2008, we have provided some
 significant contributions to research and scholarship across the fields of art and design, both
 nationally and internationally. Although our submission is diverse, we have developed expertise
 in distinctive areas of creative practice research, including socially engaged and activist practice
 (e.g. Billingham, Bowden, Brennan, Cullinan and Obata) and championing neglected areas of
 the visual arts (e.g. Bick, Fisher Obata, Pryor).

 Since 2014, we have developed research partnerships across a range of other institutions,
 nationally and internationally. Some examples of our key collaborations include:

    •   Dr Mike Toobey, Bath Spa University: keynote for the symposium at RWA for Albert Irvin
        and Abstract Expressionism
    •   Sabine Schaschl, Director, Museum Haus Konstruktiv, Zurich: co-curator with Bick of
        his solo exhibition and interviewer for the accompanying publication with Hatje Canz
    •   Pryor developed links with the Capuchin Franciscan Research and Retreat Centre,
        Addis Ababa in Ethiopia and with academic theologians at Ludwigs-Maximilians-
        Universität München. Germany, and the University of Aberdeen through his
        collaboration with theologian, Prof. Philip Esler
    •   Ongoing collaboration with RWA, Bristol, where Fisher is working on a major
        retrospective of Ken Kiff. This project emerged from his collaboration with the Sainsbury
        Centre of Visual Art, University of East Anglia, and the estate of Ken Kiff.

 Although we focus on creative practice research, most members of our research community also
 publish theoretical contributions in more conventional scholarly contexts. We see this as an
 important component that brings rigour to our research outputs and is fully integrated into
 creative practice investigations. An overview of these contributions follows:

    •   Authoring scholarly monographs for prestigious publishers such as Hatje Canz and Walter
        Koenig (e.g. Bick, Wood)
    •   Editing catalogues and collections of essays with contributions from other academics and
        practitioners (e.g. Brennan, Geddes, Murray)
    •   Publishing in peer-reviewed academic journals on topics as varied as photography and
        theology (e.g. Peck, Pryor)
    •   Invited contributions to edited collections and catalogues (e.g. Billingham, Boyd, Cullinan,
        Peck, Pryor)
    •   Academic conference and festival talks or presentations in the UK, Europe and US (e.g.
        Billingham, Boyd, Brennan, Fisher, Murray, Obata, Southern)
    •   Organising symposia and conferences (Bick, Bowden, Boyd, Geddes, Murray)




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our growing PhD programme and new practice as research pathway allows us to help build UK
 research capacity in key areas. Our academic staff also co-supervise students with other
 institutions (e.g. Worcester and Kingston) and have acted as external examiners at a range of
 institutions including the University of Oxford, the Royal College of Arts, Leeds University and
 The Slade School of Art.

 The scope of our practice as research activity has extended greatly since 2014 with a series of
 projects that bring our researchers’ work to international audiences. For example:

   •   Bick’s own work was the focus of a solo exhibition at Haus Konstructiv in Zurich (2017)
       and linked monograph with international publisher, Hatje Canz (2020).
   •   Billingham participated in 65 festival question and answer sessions globally to support
       the release of Ray & Liz (2018) including Ficunam (Mexico), Jeonju (South Korea) and
       Sevilla Festival (Spain). For more information, see ICS Glos 32.1
   •   Obata’s graphic reportage images were exhibited at the Fumetti Comic Art Festival in
       France (2019) while his first graphic novel, Just So Happens was published internationally
       (UK, US, Spain, France, Germany, Italy, Serbia and Taiwan) from 2014 onwards.

 Economy and Society

 An important part of our strategy is to champion the visual arts, locally and regionally. We have
 achieved this through almost 50 public exhibitions and events at our own Hardwick Gallery
 alone, since 2014. We have also developed strong links with regional visual arts organisations
 including the Wilson, (Cheltenham), the RWA (Bristol), the Forest of Dean Sculpture Trust
 and the Cheltenham Public Sculpture Trust.

 Our exhibitions in partnership with local and regional galleries have developed new audiences,
 boosted attendance and enabled widespread public engagement with our research. For
 example:

   •   Still Small Voice at the Wilson (co-curated by Pryor) brought a world-class private
       collection of twentieth century biblical art to the UK and achieved visitor numbers of
       10,859 during its run in 2015. The accompanying catalogue included a series of scholarly
       contributions (including an essay by Pryor) and sold out. The exhibition also involved an
       outreach programme for local schools, led by Pryor in person.
   •   Albert Irwin and Abstract Expressionism at the RWA, Bristol (2018), was curated by
       Stewart Geddes and accompanied by a catalogue and a ticketed one-day symposium on
       contemporary abstract painting. The project brought important abstract expressionist
       works to the region on loan from both Tate and US private collectors. It was the gallery’s
       most successful show ever with visitor numbers of almost 13,000 and catalogue sales of
       almost 9,000.
   •   The Order of Things, at The Wilson, Cheltenham, was a survey exhibition based on
       Systems arts, curated by Bick together with PhD candidate Jonathan Parsons and
       independent researcher Katie Pratt. The show was supported by a £10,000 Arts Council
       England grant, in recognition of the project’s aim to engage local communities with the
       work of major, international contemporary artists, such as Rana Begum, Edith Dekyndt
       and A.K. Dolven.



                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Further afield, most members of our community of practice-based researchers have also shown
 or curated work in partnership with prominent public galleries across the UK or internationally,
 including:

   •       The Cooper Gallery, Dundee: Of other Spaces (Cullinan, 2016-17)
   •       mac, Birmingham: Saddleworth – Responding to a Landscape (Murray, 2017-8)
   •       Towner, Eastbourne: Panoramic (Billingham, 2015)
   •       City Gallery, Peterborough: The Green Backyard (Brennan, 2016)
   •       Glynn Vivian, Swansea: Ray (Billingham, 2015) and Wakelin Award (Billingham, 2018)

 We also encourage staff to reach new audiences by placing their work in contexts outside the
 conventional gallery space. A few examples follow:

       •    The culmination of Pryor’s collaborative project Enoch: God’s Messenger was an
            installation of the series at Gloucester and Canterbury Cathedrals during 2020. These
            scheduled exhibitions have both been postponed, due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
       •    Bick designed a canopy for the historic Prince’s Arcade, Piccadilly in London as a
            homage to cross-dressing female constructivist artist, Marlow Moss, installed in 2018.
       •    Brennan’s installations are typically sited in contested urban sites with architectural or
            ecological relevance, such as If This Were to Be Lost in a threatened community
            garden, The Green Backyard, Peterborough in 2016.
       •    Obata sited an exhibition of his graphic reportage on the Fukushima nuclear disaster at
            a venue in Whitehaven, Cumbria in 2017 – chosen for its proximity to the Sellafield
            nuclear power station.
       •    Fisher exhibited at Blyth Gallery, Imperial College London in 2017, a context
            specifically designed to bring contemporary art into direct dialogue with scientific
            research and learning.

 As detailed in ICS Glos 32.2, another key focus is supporting the visual arts in the deprived
 residential area of St Peter’s and St Paul’s that immediately surrounds two of our Cheltenham
 campuses. This is an ongoing research programme led by Sarah Bowden, which has attracted
 Arts Council England and National Lottery funding. We also work closely with local
 organisations on developing public and community arts projects, such as a recently awarded
 consultancy for Sarah Bowden from Cheltenham Borough Council to enhance the Honeybourne
 Line walking and cycle route in Cheltenham over the next three years.

 The cultural importance of our practice contributions is further evidenced in those works by our
 submitted staff that were acquired by museums and public collections over the last six years.
 For example:

    •      Bick, Haus Konstructiv (Zurich)
    •      Billingham, Towner (Eastbourne) and Glyn Vivian (Swansea)
    •      Brennan (Victoria & Albert Museum)
    •      Cullinan, as Cullinan Richards (Arts Council Collection)
    •      Murray (Victoria & Albert Museum)

 Further external recognition for our researchers has come through awards that recognise an
 important contribution to their field. Billingham’s feature film debut Ray & Liz won15
 international film awards and gathered a further 23 nominations including two British

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Independent Film Awards in 2018, as well as a BAFTA nomination in 2019 for ‘best debut
 feature’. Meanwhile, Murray’s first landscape photography project won awards at The
 International Photography Awards, Tokyo (2018) and International Photography Awards, New
 York (2018). Billingham received the Wakelin Award in 2018 from the Glynn Vivian Gallery in
 Swansea.

 The emphasis on creative practice in our research strategy means that public engagement, and
 societal and cultural impact, are already fully embedded in how our research engages with the
 public. The challenge for everyone who explores research questions through creative practice is
 to help non-academic audiences engage with both the work and the research that underpins it.
 This was our priority from 2014 to 2020 and remains a core principle of our research strategy as
 we enter the next phase of our development. Our commitment to equality, diversity and
 inclusivity is represented directly in our leading researchers and in those who will emerge
 through the next REF cycle.




                                                                                          Page 14
