Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Central Lancashire

 Unit of Assessment: UOA26 – Modern Languages and Linguistics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Overview
This Unit of Assessment is characterised by its engagement with a diverse body of international
research under three groupings: sign languages and deaf studies; modern languages; and applied
and theoretical linguistics. Our research is often interdisciplinary and is deeply embedded within
community and third-sector organisations representing marginalised and disabled groups in Britain
and overseas. We do this because we believe that research on modern languages and linguistics
has powerful social benefits. Many members of the submission have witnessed the transformative
potential of our research as we work with disadvantaged groups; we also believe that we and others
have much to learn from working in partnership with these groups.
Consequently, our research impact is both global and local. For example, we work with deaf
communities in the Global South (South Asia, sub-Saharan Africa and Indonesia); we also harness
the transformative power of stories of resilience told by disadvantaged children and young people in
Lancashire; and we foster deeper understandings of Russian culture in the northwest of England.
Since 2014, we have grown from 14 to 20 members (19.0 FTE) with Significant Responsibility for
Research (SRfR), strengthened our interdisciplinarity, built on our strong REF outputs in 2014 (70%
were three- or four-star), and developed a strategy to align all research-active staff with new
Research Institutes and Centres. Highlights of our achievements in the REF2021 period include:
 • Externally-won research income of £1.92m (mean average: £274k per annum) from the AHRC,
   ESRC, Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO), European Commission,
   Leverhulme Trust, British Academy, British Council and others. This represents a growth from
   an average of £231k p.a. for 2008-13.
 • Major externally-funded projects, e.g. Multilingual Behaviours in Sign Language Users
   (FEC£990k), Stories2Connect (£494k), Literacy Development with Deaf Communities (£125k),
   Peer-to-Peer Deaf Multiliteracies (£436k), Multilingual Work Spaces (£115k), South-South
   Collaboration on the Impact of Peer-to-Peer Deaf Multiliteracies (£90k), CAMELOT: CreAting
   Machinima Empowers Live Online Language Teaching & Learning (£78k), and GUINEVERE:
   Games Used IN Engaging Virtual Environments for Real-Time Language Education (£47k).
 • A significant increase in PhD and Professional Doctorate completions from 3.25 in 2014 to 31.75
   in 2020.
 • The creation of the transdisciplinary UCLan Research Institute of Citizenship, Society and
   Change, the Lancashire Research Centre for Migration, Diaspora and Exile and the Vladimir
   Vysotsky Centre for Russian Studies, alongside the continued internationalisation of the globally
   renowned International Institute for Sign Languages and Deaf Studies (iSLanDS).
 • The publication of eight monographs and 20 edited volumes.
 • Boosting the number of culturally deaf postdoctoral researchers to four, representing what we
   believe to be the highest concentration of deaf researchers at this level of any British HEI.
 • Two new professorships and two readerships awarded, alongside five senior lectureships and
   10 lectureships.
 • We organised over 50 international and 40 national conferences and hosted over 100 visiting
   speakers.




                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Structure
The network of researchers linked with Modern Languages and Linguistics (henceforth, ML&L
Network) builds on groupings and centres established during the REF2014 period, including the
Research Unit for Speech and Language (RUSL) and iSLanDS (2007). The three groupings are:

  1. Sign languages and deaf studies (iSLanDS and BSL & Deaf Studies staff);
  2. Modern languages (Russian, German, French, Spanish, Arabic, Japanese, Korean,
     Translation and Interpreting, and World Literatures and Cultural Studies);
  3. Applied and theoretical linguistics (RUSL, TESOL, English for Academic Purposes (EAP),
     language testing, intercultural communication).

These groupings are shown in Diagram 1, along with institutes and centres intersecting with the
ML&L Network, and the two Impact Case Studies.




Diagram 1: Research groupings in the ML&L Network.

Each of the groupings is aligned with one or more of the following University research themes: ‘Arts,
culture and heritage’, ‘Citizenship, society and justice’, ‘People, place and environment’, and
‘Sustainability, business and enterprise’.

Research and impact strategy
The ML&L Network is part of the Faculty of Culture and the Creative Industries (FCCI). At the time
of the 2008 RAE, the core of the ML&L Network was in the School of Languages and International
Studies. A strategic reorganisation enabled a stronger, well-resourced research culture, and the

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
recent formation of an enlarged School of Humanities, Language and Global Studies (henceforth,
‘the School’) gives a support structure to the expanding scope of language research. As part of the
School, the ML&L Network organised a large number of national and international conferences (see
Section 4), and many featured academics from surrounding schools and networks. We also engaged
in interdisciplinary research with colleagues from areas such as History, English Language,
Literature and American Studies, Philosophy and Religion, Social Work, Health and Digital Design,
and Music, Dance and Performance. An example is the significant overlap with Area Studies (UOA
25), evident in the work of Brayard, Chen, Jeon, Orme, Plaice, Tabachnikova and Wang
(academics in bold type are in the UoA26 submission).
Our approach to facilitating impact centres on our work with marginalised people to co-produce
knowledge, harnessing the power of language by building on their daily lived experiences, and this
approach is reflected in both of our Impact Case Studies. Zeshan’s work (26IMP1-UZ) focuses on
improving the multiliteracy skills of deaf people in India, Ghana and Uganda, who had been excluded
from acquiring English literacy at school due to inaccessible teaching methods. Deaf people are also
excluded from professional opportunities, and the project led to the creation of training pathways for
deaf people to act in professional roles in deaf education. Finally, deaf project members were
involved in documenting the research activities and are contributing to a peer-reviewed volume; for
some, this is their first opportunity to publish as early-career researchers (ECRs).
In the Stories2Connect project, Satchwell (26IMP2-CS) collaborated with Barnardo’s charity,
community writers and illustrators, and organisations supporting underprivileged children. The
project used stories created by, with and for young people with disabilities and other forms of
disadvantage, such as being bereaved, in care, with mental ill-health or living in areas of deprivation.
The case study documentation shows how co-research methods have enhanced the confidence,
capabilities, social and literacy skills of those who took part, with a range of books and digital
audio/video resources created with the young people. These methods and outputs are now being
used across the UK and in international contexts, including Japan, Finland and Indonesia.
Our 2014 impact template (REF3a, ‘Strategy and plans’) set out a commitment to maintain and
enhance our work with international partners through the establishment of substantial research hubs
overseas. These hubs were established in September 2014 by Zeshan and Palfreyman (co-
directors of iSLanDS), enabling the retention and development of knowledge and skills through five
local deaf facilitators in India (Panda, Pal and Manavalamamuni, in Odisha) and Indonesia (Isnaini
and Kusuma, in Java) supported by external research funding. Zeshan and Palfreyman are fluent in
Indian Sign Language and Indonesian Sign Language, respectively, and used workshops and face-
to-face dialogue to deepen collaboration and develop the in-country capacity of sign community
members. As of 2020, the two hubs work together directly, in an example of South-South
collaboration, as part of a QR-Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) project led by Satchwell
and Palfreyman.
The roll-out of this unique research hub strategy enabled joint research on sign language typology,
sign multilingualism and sociolinguistic variation in tandem with community dissemination. Working
with the Indonesian hub, Palfreyman disseminated research findings, focusing on language
attitudes and policy, generating a total reach of over 1,000 deaf Indonesians and 800 academics
and students. Further work to raise the profile of sign language linguistics in Indonesia were possible
due to an enduring relationship with Atmajaya University, Jakarta, leading to a series of keynote
presentations and workshops with academics from universities across Indonesia. Meanwhile,
Zeshan worked with the India hub to facilitate an ambitious research programme on Deaf literacy
leading to a change in education policy (see 26IMP1-UZ).
The other stated aim in our REF2014 statement was to take an integrated approach to impact and
research that traverses disciplinary boundaries. This interdisciplinarity was implemented in several
ways. At University level, the UCLan Research Institute of Citizenship, Society and Change (ICSC),
one of two transdisciplinary institutes, was founded in 2017 by four professors, including Zeshan,
who serves as a director; its members from the ML&L Network include Fairclough, Palfreyman and
Satchwell. ICSC produces high quality research addressing urgent questions for people and society,
recognising new political and global contexts, and pioneering distinctive and innovative
methodological approaches.


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
At the unit level, seed corn funding from the ICSC enabled Satchwell (RUSL) and Palfreyman
(iSLanDS) to collaborate in 2018 on a project conducting interviews with parents of deaf Indonesian
children. This developed into the South-South QR-GCRF collaboration project mentioned above,
centred on the Sustainable Development Goal of inclusive and equitable quality education for all.
Tabachnikova’s work on Russian is proudly transdisciplinary, incorporating research on literature,
history, art and music to shed light on the quintessence of Russianness and the kernel of its values.
Further transdisciplinary work is taking place as part of MIDEX (see below).
Our commitment to interdisciplinarity at the faculty level is evidenced by the creation in September
2020 of the Arts and Humanities Research Academy (AHRA), directed by Satchwell. Alongside its
sister Creative Practices Research Academy (CPRA), the AHRA is aligned with the Faculty (see
Diagram 2). This structure offers multiple benefits, such as well-resourced support for postgraduate
research (PGR) students and ECRs, and clear development pathways from PGR student and
Research Assistant through to substantive academic positions. AHRA and CPRA also enable
transdisciplinary research by bringing together units of assessment 25-28 and 32-34 respectively,
while the shared advisory board for these academies creates further opportunities for crossover.
The ML&L Network itself is co-ordinated by a strategy committee representing all levels of academic
staff from Associate Lecturer to Professor. Monthly meetings provided a space for developing skills,
sharing knowledge and facilitating collaboration; since March 2020, meetings have moved online,
creating a space for staff to seek advice and support while working remotely. The Network enabled
a strong foundation for the growth of our PGR community, with seven PhD studentships and over
30 completed PhDs and Professional Doctorates since 2014 (see Section 2). We also sustained the
exchange of ideas, leading to new and stronger links with universities overseas through UCLan’s
Distinguished Collaborator Programme.

Future directions
Going forward, our objectives as ML&L Network are to
 • consolidate our international research impact in the global South by working with local
   organisations and universities to raise their research capacity, thereby expanding the focus of
   our research and finding new ways to make a sustainable impact.
 • grow our PGR success from 21.5 PhD completions by increasing the supervisory capacity of
   our Network members (currently 14 staff from our submission).
 • raise the capacity of ML&L Network members to obtain research grants by developing the
   AHRA as a means of sharing ideas and contacts across the faculty, and as a source of grant
   capture knowledge and support, thus maintaining our healthy levels of research funding.
 • capitalise on our new centres and institutes, which are key to expanding interdisciplinary
   approaches to our research, both internally and externally to UCLan, and seeking novel
   applications of established methodologies and findings for impact in real-world settings.

Our new centres are already playing a key role in addressing emerging geo-political challenges,
such as the ‘new Cold War’ with Russia. Responding to another recent and pressing concern, the
refugee crisis, is part of the rationale for the UCLan Research Centre for Migration, Diaspora and
Exile (MIDEX). This interdisciplinary centre has more than 70 members from six schools and three
faculties, as well as external members from national and international HEIs. ML&L members of
MIDEX include Tasis (leading on ‘Identity’), Tabachnikova (‘Representations of migration, diaspora
and exile in media, literature and art’), Artamonova, Brayard, Moreno, Orme, Plaice, Imren Waller
and You. As deputy director, Tasis supports ECRs, and organised an international symposium in
December 2019 to mark 80 years since the republican exile at the close of the Spanish Civil War
(see Section 4).




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Diagram 2: FCCI research academies, institutes and centres.


                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Ethics and integrity
Research ethics and integrity are central to all research activities, not least because of our
engagement with marginalised deaf people in the global South and disadvantaged young people in
the UK, and our work is aligned with the Global Code of Conduct for Research in Resource-Poor
Settings. Members of the ML&L Network play a key role in UCLan’s ethics regime: Palfreyman and
Bürkle regularly chair the Business, Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (BAHSS) ethics
committee, and Palfreyman is ethics lead for the ML&L Network and the School. All staff and PGR
students undertake ethics training, which was extended to undergraduate and postgraduate taught
students via a School-wide application process. Five ML&L Network members have reviewed on
BAHSS (Bürkle, Fairclough, Lerose, Palfreyman and Thomas) and consequently, knowledge of
ethics and research integrity is cascaded through the ML&L Network, informing PhD, MA and
undergraduate research and teaching practice.

Open Research
UCLan’s Open Research Steering Group is tasked with ensuring that Open Access policies for
publications and research data remain effective and compliant in the face of an ever-changing
landscape. All in-scope outputs produced by the ML&L Network are open access, and we support
UCLan’s Open Research response in fresh and creative ways. Satchwell sought to challenge
conventional ways of presenting research by offering findings through storytelling and won the
UKLA/Wiley Research in Literacy Education Award in 2020 for an article problematising the notion
of authorship, especially regarding the extent to which the voices of marginalised children are heard.
Her Stories2Connect project produced storybooks and videos on YouTube as outputs from research
projects, with input from both published and aspiring writers and illustrators, and project participants
developed ‘phygital’ objects (story-telling machines).
Palfreyman is archiving the Corpus of Indonesian Sign Language (BISINDO), featuring 130 signers
from six islands, in MPI’s Language Archive, and uses vlogs in BISINDO to present research findings
(a presentation from April 2016 has over 16,300 views). As editor of a special issue of Asia-Pacific
Language Variation, he negotiated with the publisher, John Benjamins, to allow for the integration of
abstracts in a relevant sign language for the first time. This goes beyond the usual concerns of Open
Access by making research more accessible to deaf communities using the languages on which the
research is based.
The SIGN conference series, set up by Zeshan and managed by the iSLanDS Institute, remains one
of very few international academic conferences where all presenters must present in a sign
language, making research more accessible to deaf people who are often excluded from
opportunities to engage directly with presenters. Recent SIGN conferences at Zhongzhou University,
China (SIGN7), Federal University of Santa Catarina, Brazil (SIGN8) and University of Warsaw
(SIGN9) have all boosted local sign communities by enabling closer engagement with host
universities.
Open Access publication is supported by UCLan’s research repository, Central Lancashire Online
Knowledge (CLoK). Central funds are provided to cover fees for open access publication. The School
supports the open access Journal of Second Language Teaching and Research, established by
Thomas and Daniel Waller in 2012, which is published annually and continues to be edited by ML&L
members to encourage digital scholarship and open access publication. Zeshan set up the Ishara
Research Series, an Open Access online book series for sign language-related publications, edited
by Palfreyman.




                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

Staffing strategy

The ML&L Network objectives are underpinned by a strategy to recruit staff who are passionate
about research and able to undertake research alongside their teaching responsibilities; to support
and develop our focus on research-informed teaching; and to aid the transition of staff from PGR to
Associate Lecturer, Lecturer, Senior Lecturer, Reader and Professor.
As one of the few UK HEIs producing research on sign languages and deaf studies, UCLan benefits
from two research teams in this field, one with a global South focus (iSLanDS), the other focusing
on the UK/EU (BSL & Deaf Studies). All hearing staff in these teams are fluent signers, obviating
communication barriers, and a regular sign language interpreter team enables technical expertise
and effective working relationships.
The majority of BSL & Deaf Studies staff are deaf, and supporting the research development of deaf
staff is a priority for the ML&L Network. Three deaf staff now have PhDs (Lerose and Yang, with
Nunn having obtained her PhD at UCLan in 2017), along with Reader Palfreyman at the iSLanDS
Institute. There are no official sources of information on this, but we believe UCLan now has the
highest concentration of campus-based deaf postdoctoral researchers of any British HEI. This has
innumerable benefits: for deaf researchers themselves, it is rare to share backgrounds, linguistic and
cultural expertise, and communication preferences so closely with colleagues; for deaf and hearing
students, deaf researchers are rare, powerful deaf role models; and for hearing colleagues there are
opportunities to learn about deaf culture. One example of this is RUSL member Jeon, who has no
background in sign language studies; her decision to plan an event at the 28th Japanese/Korean
Linguistics Conference (JK28) on multi-modal communication was influenced by the work of deaf
colleagues.
The pool of deaf researchers at UCLan is diverse in experience and research focus. Lerose is Italian,
and is an authority on Italian Sign Language, while Yang is Chinese, researches Chinese Sign
Language, and led a British Council-funded capacity-building project with staff at Zhongzhou
University. Palfreyman is British and works on Indonesian Sign Language. Developing the research
potential of this pool further is one of the ML&L Network’s priorities going forwards.
Recruiting research-active staff who enrich the research culture of ML&L is central to our objectives.
The ability to contribute to research excellence is consistently highlighted as a desirable attribute,
and we prioritise the assessment of candidates’ research potential in the selection process. Through
this process we recruited and progressed several researchers with outstanding ability from part-time
Associate Lecturer positions through to full-time Lectureships (Lecturers Laura Walker, Matsukawa,
Associate Lecturers Byrne, Nicola Walker). Typically, staff appointed to first academic lectureships
are appointed on two-year probationary contracts which are then evaluated according to their
research development and future potential in terms of the ML&L Network, prior to awarding
permanent contracts.

Mentoring and support
New staff are offered mentoring and receive support on research in bi-annual appraisals and regular
one-to-ones, leading to the recruitment of several researchers (Lecturers Artamanova, Brayard,
Bürkle, Chen, Dobson, Hamann, Mahoney-Steel, Orange-Sibra, Vajn; Senior Lecturers Fong Wa
Ha, McCulloch; and Reader Tabachnikova) since 2014. Research is discussed in the appraisals
of research-active staff, with research objectives and training opportunities identified within the
context of a three-year research plan reviewed by appraisers, the ML&L Network lead and the Head
of School. The plan is also reviewed by senior academics, other unit of assessment leads and the
Faculty Director of Research each time applications are made for internal grants. The School is
currently matching those wishing to expand their research profile with appraisers who can offer
specific input on research.
The ML&L Network offers three types of mentoring: i) a University-wide scheme allows academic
staff to establish mentoring relationships with senior staff in other disciplines and schools, thus
breaking down barriers across UCLan’s research culture as a whole; ii) small group mentoring

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
sessions take place annually, usually in teams of three, with a senior academic mentoring early-
career staff or a staff member transitioning to research; iii) one-to-one mentoring is offered by
established researchers who meet staff at agreed intervals to offer advice and guidance on outputs,
impact and researcher development. One of our mentees, a lecturer working on a PhD, specifically
asked for a mentor with experience of transdisciplinary research. He found the scheme to be
enriching and offered the following insight on his most recent mentoring session: ‘my mentor gave
me some incredibly useful insights… because she is involved in that area of research at a much
deeper level, it was a really inspiring meeting.’
The Network is building capacity for the next REF by identifying and supporting ECRs. Eleven
teaching staff from the TESOL, EAP and Modern Languages teams pursued research collaboration
to unlock the benefits of teacher research by reversing roles in a classroom-based project to become
Teachers as Learners. Semi-structured interviews and focus groups explored how teachers in the
ML&L Network can go from being research-informed and engaged with research, to becoming
teacher-researchers. A self-styled ‘Research Mindset’ collective emerged (Carson, Datti, Jungmin
Lee and Laura Walker) who had no further training beyond MA level but wanted to develop their
research expertise further. Ongoing reflection led them to publish in the Teacher Development
Academic Journal.
This exceptional example of action research emerged spontaneously and was identified and
supported by the ML&L Network through funding and support on research ethics. The researchers
began with the premise that ‘many second language teachers lack the confidence, skills and
resources to “join the club” and therefore fail to develop as teacher-researchers’ (Walker, Carson,
Datti & Lee, 2020, p.66), and find that collaborating in a group that fosters autonomy and
interdependency enabled them to begin inhabiting the teacher-researcher space. Research Mindset
reports that the move from engaging with research to engaging in research led them to break out
and grow professionally, joining the wider community. They disseminated their approach and
findings across the ML&L Network, and now work independently and collaboratively on other study
and research projects (one of the members is studying for a PhD at UCLan).
McCulloch leads an ECR group with a dedicated area on UCLan’s intranet containing articles
relevant to ECRs, information about ethics, grants and funding advice, and sample research
documents. McCulloch organises regular research events, including external presenters and UCLan
researchers sharing their research experiences, and created an open directory of ‘critical friends’
across the school (currently 10 individuals) listing research interests and methodological expertise.
This directory enables ECRs to identify colleagues who are well-placed to give feedback on their
academic writing. Where possible, ECRs are given opportunities to participate in PGR supervision,
and UCLan runs a four-part course for supervisor accreditation.

Fellowships and sabbaticals
We sustained the growth of postdoctoral research such as the work of Palfreyman (Leverhulme
Trust Early-Career Fellow, 2016-19) and 10 Research Assistants were employed on externally-
funded European Commission projects since 2014 (e.g. CAMELOT, GUINEVERE and VITAL, see
Section 3). Staff with SRfR are eligible to apply to Faculty-level sabbatical schemes. Fairclough,
Halenko, Jeon and Thomas benefited from sabbaticals during this REF period. On her 2019
sabbatical, Jeon wrote a journal paper, prepared for her British Academy-funded project, and
completed three successful applications for £13,700 of funding (Japan Foundation, Academy of
Korean Studies, and Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation) to support JK28, hosted online by UCLan
in September 2020.
The Faculty Research Strategy Group meets monthly and distributes internal grants of up to £1,500
for conference travel, small project funding, buying staff out of teaching or support for publication.
Over 40 staff have benefited from this process, with the majority of awards going to Associate
Lecturer, Lecturers and Senior Lecturers. For example, in 2019-2020, £9,380 was granted to ML&L
members. Jeon (£1,200) used a grant to collect data relating to her research on prosody;
Palfreyman (£1,141) brought a deaf Indonesian researcher to the UK for a two-week technical visit;
and Matsukawa (£470) attended an international conference on (im)politeness at Anglia Ruskin
University to gain new knowledge and expand her network.


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Other internal initiatives funded research efforts of a larger scale. In 2015, Tabachnikova was
awarded £6,800 to build an international team of colleagues from the UK, Russia and Belgium to
work on the project Intimate, Literary and Public Representations of Truth: Britain and Russia in
World War I. These relationships developed further through an international conference in 2017 and
a panel at a conference in Cambridge in 2019, and the team is now preparing a major research grant
proposal alongside the Russian State University for the Humanities.

Equality & Diversity
The ML&L Network is committed to fostering equality and diversity, not least through our commitment
to research on sign languages with deaf communities. As part of its 2020-2021 Seminar Series,
MIDEX hosted an event on LGBT+ Asylum Seekers in conjunction with UCLan’s LGBT+ Staff
Network, one of several academic presentations at UCLan to explore LGBT+ issues since 2014.
Palfreyman, currently leading the ML&L Network, served as co-chair of the LGBT+ Staff Network
from 2013 and lectured annually on queer linguistics for the RUSL team; he currently works with
UCLan’s Director of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion to nurture UCLan’s national and international
profile on queer and EDI research.
Linguistically and culturally, we represent the diversity that we research: Network members with
SRfR include 12 international academic staff from 10 countries. UCLan’s policy on equality, diversity
and inclusion guides all processes of appointment and promotion. Over this REF cycle, over 50% of
appointments were female; both of our professors are female, as is one of our two Readers.
Members of the ML&L Network play leading roles in UCLan’s Athena Swan accreditation process
(Jeon, Horák, Thomas), and Jeon is Athena SWAN lead for the School. An Athena SWAN Project
was initiated in the School in 2019 leading to an increase in staff awareness (evidenced by survey
data) on the need to support disadvantaged groups in career progression, and promote respect and
support in accordance with Athena SWAN principles. The School uses surveys, interviews and open
forum discussion to identify specific needs from under-represented groups, and we aim to obtain a
bronze award in 2021.

Research Students
ML&L members supervised 21.5 PhD students and 10.25 Professional Doctorates from 2014,
compared with 3.25 in the previous REF cycle. Our students came from different socio-economic
groups and countries including China, Cyprus, Indonesia, Libya, Saudi Arabia and Spain,
contributing to a highly diverse PGR student body. In several cases, students went on to work in
more senior roles, such as Huhua Fan, who co-ordinated UNESCO’s ‘Leveraging ICT to Achieve
Education 2030’ project. A number of our research graduates now occupy faculty positions in
countries including Indonesia, Japan, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and the US.
We currently have 20 research degree students, with 70% receiving support from external agencies
and funders, such as the Saudi Cultural Bureau, the Libyan Embassy and the Overseas
Postgraduate Scholarship Programme of the Indonesian government. Over three-quarters of PGR
students are female. All students are supervised by a team of at least two and usually three
supervisors. Teams comprise experienced supervisors alongside junior academics, enabling
supervisory skills transfer. All students receive supervisions every month (two months for part-time
students) and progress is monitored in line with agreed progression and performance milestones
established by the Graduate Research School and Research Degrees Board.
RUSL member Satchwell is course leader for the Doctorate in Education (EdD), recruiting 8-10
students per year, some from among UCLan staff and many from outside UCLan who choose the
course over their own institution’s provision. Satchwell personally supervised 14 doctoral students
to completion (nine as DoS) from 2014 onwards. She currently supervises a further 18 doctoral
students: 15 EdDs, 2 PhDs and a Prof Doc in Creative Practice. The research projects for students’
EdDs lead not only to doctorates for candidates, but directly enhance the environment through
changes in the quality of their own learning and teaching practice and influence on their colleagues,
at UCLan and beyond. These students also contribute to the research culture through conference
presentations, a seminar series in education, and regular doctoral workshops exploring
methodologies, theoretical perspectives, data analysis, publication writing, and thesis construction.


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our PGR students are an integral part of our research culture. We reviewed our PGR training, and
guide our PGR students to organise their own student-led annual conference and this led them to
edit special editions of open access in-house journals. PGR students access a thorough induction
programme on entering UCLan and are directed towards the ML&L Network, where they can engage
with several seminar series in TESOL, Modern Languages, Deaf Studies, Russian Studies, and
Intercultural Communication, as well as complementary areas such as History, Literature and
Philosophy.
PGR students have office space in several University buildings, with access to printing and
photocopying, and they are encouraged to apply for faculty-level research funding biannually. Over
the REF cycle, PGR students were funded to support experienced researchers as interns, helping
with data collection and analysis, organising conferences, and networking with partners and
collaborators. These experiences, alongside participation in seminars and workshops, enabled them
to network with internationally recognised visiting speakers. Our students participated in international
conferences, as well as PGR events across the UK and the EU and conducted field trips to the
Middle East, Asia and Europe supported by faculty grants.
Our staff seek opportunities for PGR students to gain teaching practice. Orme involved one of his
PGR students in delivering French elective classes, assisting with teaching and assessment duties.
Several PGR students collaborated with their supervisors on co-authored conference papers and
publications. Zeshan co-authored with Huhua Fan, and Satchwell co-authored with Temple, an
undergraduate then MA student, in the Journal of Educational Innovation, Partnership and Change.
Satchwell also facilitated an action research project with a cohort of six PhD students, reflecting on
the challenges of the doctoral journey and sharing their findings for the benefit of other students.
This led to a co-authored publication in the International Journal of Doctoral Studies (Satchwell,
Partington, Barnes, Gurjee, Ramsdale, Dodding & Drury, 2015, Vol. 10). Satchwell’s award of a
National Teaching Fellowship in 2016 recognised her involvement of UG and PG students in funded
research projects.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income
ML&L Network members generated £1.92m in external research funding (2014-20) for a diverse
range of projects in sign language linguistics, computer-assisted language learning, corpus
linguistics, literacy studies and applied linguistics. Large grant recipients shaped coherent,
interlinked projects, bringing benefits to marginalised young people and deaf communities, and
transforming our knowledge of how technology enhances teaching and learning. Smaller grant-
holders maximised the potential of their grants to benefit our research environment, developing their
research profiles through early-career research projects and funding international events such as
JK28.
Satchwell received £395k of AHRC funding (FEC £495,622) for a large interdisciplinary community-
engaged project, Stories2Connect (2015-18). An additional £5,000 from AHRC saw the project
launched at a Storytelling Festival, attended by schoolchildren and the public. A subsequent AHRC
Catalyst grant (£2,968) paired two AHRC-funded projects, sharing findings and creating joint outputs
for practitioners. AHRC follow-on funding (£79,890, FEC £99,060) applied collaborative story-
making methods to the UKRI Landscape Decision-Making programme (Connecting Disadvantaged
Young People with Landscape Through Arts, 2020-21). These projects engage junior researchers
and draw on student expertise in the creative arts, which is especially important in the Covid
pandemic. EPSRC provided £10k (2019) to create five two-minute animated films about
Stories2Connect, focusing on impact and engagement. These were launched by young people,
which consolidated the use of co-produced research methods to empower this overlooked
demographic.
Three associated projects use story-making to work with disadvantaged young people exploring their
futures. One is funded by the Office for Students’ FutureU programme (2018-21); the second, funded
by Lancashire County Council (£10,000), develops a student-led evaluation model for careers
experiences in schools in Blackpool. Again, the project includes junior staff members and a student
                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
steering group. The third, a QR-GCRF-funded project (£8,294) with Palfreyman, applied methods
from Stories2Connect to communities of deaf young people and children in Indonesia, and
subsequently forged supportive relationships between deaf teachers in Indonesia and India.
Zeshan followed her ERC project Multilingual Behaviours in Sign Language Users (MULTISIGN,
£372k of £990k falls within the 2014-20 REF period) with Multilingual Work Spaces (ERC, FEC
€149,723). This piloted a social innovation for disadvantaged deaf communities who do not have
linguistic access to information and resources already available elsewhere to deaf organisations at
an international level. This Proof of Concept project translated MULTISIGN findings into an online
portal facilitating transnational communication by deaf people through sign languages.
Meanwhile, research activities on deaf literacy in the global South were supported from 2015 by the
ESRC/FCDO Raising Learning Outcomes in Education Systems programme. In partnership with the
Lancaster Literacy Research Centre, a pilot project on peer-to-peer deaf literacy (£125k, 2015-16)
developed a pioneering approach to improving the literacy of deaf people in developing countries.
This led to the three-year Peer-to-Peer Deaf Multiliteracies Project (£436k, 2017-20). Research was
first conducted with partners in India, then cascaded to Ghana and Uganda, and further to Burundi
and Nepal (see 26IMP1-UZ).
Thomas was PI for two large-scale EU-funded projects: Creating Machinima Empowers Live Online
Language Teaching and Learning (CAMELOT) and Games Used in Engaging Virtual Environment
for Real-Time Language Education (GUINEVERE). CAMELOT (2014-17, £78,020; EU-funded total:
€390,000) explored the use of machinima to underpin a learning-centred approach, emphasizing the
importance of learner creativity and user-generated content. GUINEVERE (2018-20, £47,315)
funded by Erasmus+ and the Lifelong Learning Programme investigated the theory of game
design/gamification and best practice guidelines for teachers, leading to a server containing games
and tools alongside a mobile app using imagery from virtual worlds to create interactive stories by
language teachers. A further £47,254 of EU funding (Visualisation Tools and Analytics to Monitor
Online Language Learning and Teaching project, 2015-17) saw Thomas work with colleagues at
Hasselt University and University of Amsterdam to address gaps in the literature on analytics in
language learning and teaching. This helped teachers, students and course designers to understand
language learners' engagement by tracking their digital footprints.
Barnes administered the EU-funded Signs2Cross project, running from 2013-14 (generating
£29,701 during the REF2021 window). One of a series of Deaf-led EU projects, this involved creating
an online course for those wanting to practise International Sign and enabled deaf people across
Europe to enhance their abilities to communicate across linguistic barriers, improving the mobility of
deaf people and supporting sign language interpreters who wish to develop their skills. The EU-
funded SignTeach project (An Open Educational Resource for Sign Language Teachers in Europe;
value for UCLan: £25,220) involves over 25 European academics and practitioners, and aims to
increase the capacity of sign language teachers and teacher-trainers. Lerose was a key contributor
of content for the signteach.eu website, with examples of good practice, presentations and other
resources in International Sign.
A Leverhulme Trust Early-Career Fellowship (£91k) enabled Palfreyman to investigate patterns of
variation and local identities in Indonesian sign language varieties. He extended the Indonesian Sign
Language corpus from two to six cities on different islands (a total of 131 signers). At the macro
level, he explored the influence of region and gender in domains such as negation and fingerspelling,
while at the micro level, he traced expressions of identity linked with ethnicity and schooling. The
British Council Indonesia granted £7,605 to share research skills and knowledge of sign linguistics
with 12 deaf people and 23 university lecturers across Indonesia.
Other ML&L researchers also obtained British Council funding, conducting innovative research that
enhanced English teaching methods. Yang received £76,760 from the British Council’s UK-China
Partnership Innovation Challenge Fund for Academic Exchanges Regarding Teaching English and
Deaf Studies with an Online Multimedia Platform (2016-18). Project teams at UCLan and Zhongzhou
University created an online platform to move English teaching away from inappropriate audio-based
methods, to sign language-based methods. Lecturers from Zhongzhou visited UCLan in 2016 to
survey resources and online materials used for teaching, and to learn how to create multimedia
materials in English and sign language. On a follow-up visit, UCLan staff gave training seminars in

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Zhongzhou, observed teaching and moderated materials created by Chinese lecturers. This led to
an edited volume in Chinese by Yang and two Zhongzhou colleagues, with research papers on
teaching methods.
A British Council English Language Teaching Research Award (ELTRA, £7,570) enabled
McCulloch to explore the extent to which EAP pedagogies could benefit university students and
researchers in Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bangladesh and Pakistan in internationalising their HE sector. The
resources and training identified make South Asian students better placed to pursue international
HE opportunities, while lecturers were exposed to best practice in curriculum design and teacher
development and researchers became better equipped to publish at international level. This led to
further collaboration: in January 2020 McCulloch returned to Sri Lanka to run teacher training
workshops; she advised one university on a new TESOL degree, and another on teaching materials.
RUSL member Halenko received two ELTRA grants. The first, Embedding ICT to Teach and Assess
the Pragmatic Targets of Refusals and Disagreements in Spoken English (£6,277), looked at the
effects of employing innovative ICT tools to help Mexican EFL learners develop their pragmatic
competence. The second grant, Surviving the First Year (£6,032), investigates how online support
can bridge the gap between pre-service training and in-service reality for novice English language
teachers. Matsukawa and Hamann secured £3,200 from the Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation
(2019-20) for their study Onomatopoetic expressions in formal speech situations.
Finally, Jeon obtained several competitive research grants for her work on prosody, including from
the Academy of Korean Studies (£7,594) for Phonetic Realization and Communicative Functions of
Epenthetic Consonants in Korean and a British Academy/Leverhulme Trust Small Grant (£9,030) for
Catching the High and the Low: Effects of Stimulus Characteristics and Ageing on Pitch
Discrimination. The latter uses an experimental approach to assess how the decreasing accuracy of
voice pitch perception with age affects speech communication, providing fresh insights for linguists,
cognitive psychologists, hearing researchers, and hearing device developers. In so doing, Jeon
contributes towards mitigating communication challenges, alleviating social isolation and improving
quality of life. Jeon has collaborated multiple times with Dr Antje Heinrich at the Manchester Centre
for Audiology and Deafness.

Facilities and infrastructure
The ML&L Network is well supported by research facilities described in the Institutional Statement
and in Section 2. All UCLan Schools and Centres benefit from the support of UCLan Estates, ICT
and Library Resources. Facility Management staff provide advisory sessions for researchers about
available provisions. The UCLan Library maintains a comprehensive, state-of-the-art provision
including a host of on-line resources from JSTOR to a vast e-book catalogue, all accessible remotely,
and contains extensive collections on languages and linguistics.
In addition, UCLan invested in facilities and advanced IT resources to strengthen research; in the
School, this includes dedicated, high-tech equipment. Substantial investment in the Worldwise
language learning centre supported software for second language acquisition and linguistics for our
students and staff (£93k since 2016). New hard drives (£960) were acquired in 2018 for iSLanDS’
data storage capacity to replace tired hardware, and facilities for translation analysis (teaching and
research-based) were upgraded.
The School supported research initiatives annually from 2014 with up to £4,000 per year for visiting
speakers, distinguished collaborators and PGR student master classes on research methods
training (particularly quantitative methods). University-wide funds have supported the visits of 10
distinguished research professors during the REF period including James Paul Gee (2015), Rod
Ellis (2016) and Rachel McKee (2019). The Modern Languages and TESOL Research Seminar
Series are run by Tasis and Horák, respectively, and arranged 80 speakers from 2015-20. These
fortnightly seminars create a sense of community among researchers working in the School, along
with space to share findings and contributions. Internal funding made it possible to invite external
speakers, encouraging external collaboration and keeping abreast of academic developments.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Examples of research collaboration are presented throughout the statement; this section provides
further evidence of how our members have fostered connections with communities, organisations,
and HEIs around the world, and how these have made a positive difference. We developed
collaborations with partners in Belgium, China, Cote d’Ivoire, Czechia, Finland, France, Germany,
India, Indonesia, Japan, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, New Zealand, Pakistan, Russia, Sri Lanka and
Ukraine, among many others. This entailed networking and knowledge exchange: members of the
ML&L Network were involved in organising over 50 international conferences and symposia, and a
further 20 international conferences were hosted in Preston by our members on a variety of subjects.
The Vladimir Vysotsky Centre for Russian Studies, founded in January 2018, exists to introduce
Russian culture to the northwest of England, facilitate an inter-cultural dialogue between Russia and
the UK, and conduct research on Russian thought, literature, history, art and music. Its director,
Tabachnikova, is committed to delivering an extensive programme of free cultural events linking
academic outputs with cultural encounters, and since the Centre’s foundation, it hosted over 25
cultural outreach events featuring international experts, artists and performers. These events have
also been attended by ML&L members and other staff and students at UCLan.
In April 2018, nuns from the Sviato-Elsaventinsky monastery near Minsk, Belarus, delivered a
masterclass open to the public at Preston’s Harris Museum, generating regional television coverage.
Music concerts in and around Preston organised with Artamonova were crowned by a Russian-
British intercultural dialogue (Russian Music in Britain – British Music in Russia) organised jointly
with the Russian State Institute for Art Studies (SIAS, Moscow) in October-November 2019 and
supported by the Russian Ministry of Culture. In January 2020 a Russian-English Poetry Translation
Day featured a workshop for Russian students, a Round Table and Q&A session with award-winning
poets and translators (Stephen Capus, Peter Daniels, Veniamin Gushchin and Tabachnikova).
Tabachnikova’s research was credited by Pedagogika Iskusstva journal as making Russia ‘a more
intelligible, and hence a less daunting cultural and socio-political space for the public worldwide.
Today, in the circumstances of the new Cold War, this is an invaluable achievement’ (Issue No. 2,
April 2018). Part of this success is a result of ties that Tabachnikova built with Russian research
institutions such as SIAS, Central Economic-Mathematical Institute of the Russian Academy of
Sciences; Maxim Gorky Institute of World Literature of the Russian Academy of Sciences; and St
Petersburg State University.
The BSL & Deaf Studies team is committed to building relationships between lay communities and
academia. In 2014, Nunn, Yang, Barnes and others at UCLan hosted a trailblazing event entitled
Bridging the Gap: Are Deaf and Hearing Collaborations in Academia Really Working? This became
the first ‘Bridging the Gap’ conference, bringing academics and deaf community members together
to share research findings and reflect critically on collaborations. Other universities were quick to
replicate this success, with subsequent conferences (attended by UCLan staff, often as presenters)
in York, Manchester, Brighton, Edinburgh and Cardiff. Our deaf staff are also active members of the
Deaf UK and Ireland Academics movement (DUKIA), which meets regularly to provide a supportive
network and to advocate for changes in the field of sign language and deaf studies.
Sign language interpreters are essential for effective deaf-hearing relations, and RUSL member
Robert Lee co-developed and published his ‘role-space’ theory of interpreter-mediated interactions
with Llewellyn-Jones in 2014. Role-space theory was subsequently adopted by academics in
interpreting studies in the UK, Europe, North America and Australia, and is being used in ‘real-world’
professional settings. It is cited in the UN Handbook for Interpreters in Asylum Procedures and in a
primary text for Public Service Interpreters (Tipton & Furmanek, 2016), and appears in analyses of
remote video interpreting (Devaux 2017, 2018). Lee was invited to present in Poland, Belgium and
Norway to disseminate role-space theory, and delivered Continuing Professional Development
seminars for working interpreters in the US and Europe. In many of these encounters, Lee was given
examples by interpreters of how they are applying role-space theory to their interpreting practice.
Barnes, Lerose and Webster worked with Kang-Suk Byun, a deaf South Korean PhD student, to
investigate thoughts, feelings, and attitudes of deaf people in the UK and South Korea to written
language and sign language, as well as their use of translation and language support. This research

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
is much-needed because many deaf students have difficulty accessing the high level of literacy
required at PGR level. The project is generating evidence on the availability and appropriateness of
current language support provision for deaf people, which has the potential to open up PGR for deaf
students.
Since our 2014 Impact Case Study on sign language endangerment, Zeshan, Webster and
Palfreyman each represented iSLanDS at successive UNESCO meetings to advise on its language
survey and arranged for the inclusion of deaf participants from Albania, South Korea and Turkey.
With our input and advice, UNESCO created and circulated a new distinct survey on signed
languages in 2018, alongside its spoken languages survey. This was sent to statistical offices and
language institutions in 193 UN member states, and marks the first time, to our knowledge, that most
states will have been asked to provide information about sign languages by an international
organisation.
Palfreyman worked with deaf and hearing academics at Leiden University to deliver a two-week
African Summer School for Deaf Studies in Ghana (August 2019), attended by 16 deaf PGR students
and ECRs from Chad, Cote d’Ivoire, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Guinea-Bissau,
Kenya, Mali, Nigeria and South Africa. This followed a two-week workshop (December 2014) on
leadership and capacity-building in Lucknow for 19 deaf people from Burundi, India, Indonesia,
Jordan and Nepal organised by iSLanDS.
As Deputy Director of MIDEX, Tasis organised the Symposium on the 80th Anniversary of the
Republican Exile of 1939. In seeking to identify ‘lessons from and for a modern world’, the
symposium interspersed research presentations from academics in Mexico, Spain, Italy and the UK
with poetry, two photography exhibitions, and music events. Links were made with the North West
International Brigade Memorial Trust, which held an exhibition coextensively, and a presentation
from the local Refugee Integration Team at Lancashire County Council enabled discussion about
the experiences of refugees and local organisations that are giving them support.
Chen responded rapidly to the pandemic with an article in Multilingua exploring the role of classical
Chinese poetry, which was pasted onto boxes of Covid-19 prevention supplies, contributing to
international diplomatic efforts. Chen uses an analysis of intercultural relationships to demonstrate
the emotional resonance of the poetry for the countries concerned (China, Japan and South Korea).
The article, since re-published in Chinese, was promoted by a WeChat account organised by Tongji
University, and Chen was invited to take part in a symposium organised by Macquarie University,
University of Hamburg, Yunnan University and Fudan University.
The experience and expertise of ML&L Network members in our respective fields, which attracts and
creates opportunities for our research students, is recognised in several ways. We examined
doctorates at UK and international universities (Cordoba, Melbourne, Monash, Queensland,
Bedfordshire, Exeter, Manchester, Newcastle, UCL). We served as external assessors for chairs
and other senior research appointments in Cyprus, the US and throughout the EU. We are members
of bodies such as the ESRC peer review college, the British Council Newton Trust Fellowships,
Horizon 2020, and grant-awarding bodies in Hong Kong, Germany and the Netherlands. We
reviewed over 30 full-book manuscripts for publishers worldwide, including John Benjamins,
Blackwell, CUP, Continuum (Bloomsbury), OUP, Palgrave Macmillan, Multilingual Matters,
Routledge, Sage, and Wiley.
We edit or are associate editors of journals and book series; Zeshan edits two book series with De
Gruyter; Daniel Waller edits the Journal of Second Language Teaching and Research; Palfreyman
edits the Ishara Research Series. We sit on editorial boards of some 40 journals and five publications
series. We reviewed some 100 papers for at least 30 journals. Satchwell co-convenes the UK
Literacy Association Research Committee, Orme sat on the Executive Committee of the Society for
French Studies (2010-16), and Palfreyman was a member of an Expert Group for the World
Federation of the Deaf (2015-19). We were keynote presenters at conferences in Belgium, China,
France, Indonesia, Italy, Poland, Russia, Ukraine and the US.
In recognition of over 20 years working with deaf communities in South Asia, Zeshan received an
honorary OBE for services to higher education and the international deaf community (2015). Barnes
was the 2020 recipient of the National Association of Disability Practitioners’ Lifetime Achievement


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Award, recognising her sustained contribution to make a positive difference to the experiences of
deaf and disabled students and staff in higher education.
In the Impact Case Studies and the research projects presented in this statement, we endeavoured
to convey our passion for conducting research that contributes to advancing opportunities, whether
that is by using stories to help people share their experiences, articulate their needs and find their
voice; improving access for deaf and hearing people; increasing international academic opportunities
in the global South; raising intercultural awareness and promoting understanding; conducting
research on how age-induced hearing loss affects communication; or expanding our knowledge on
how to teach languages effectively.




                                                                                             Page 15
