   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Institution Lancaster University

Unit of assessment: UoA 27 English Language and Literature

1. Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact strategy

a. Overview

i. Context

This Unit of Assessment (UoA) is a vibrant community of critical and creative writers who
produce world-leading research across a wide spectrum of fields. It comprises 32.41 FTE staff
in two main disciplines: English Literature (EL) and Creative Writing (CW). In REF 2014, we
returned with Linguistics and English Language (LaEL) but we now seek to capitalise upon our
growing research critical mass by submitting to REF 2021 as a UoA in our own right.

We have a long track record of research excellence but, in the REF 2021 census period, the
UoA has also generated a distinctive, innovative and interdisciplinary research culture in such
fields as Creative-critical writing, Digital humanities and Literature, science and
medicine. In addition, we have collaborated with a range of stakeholders (including the
Ministry of Defence (MoD); the Department of Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA);
Minecraft.edu; the British Library; the Royal Institution of Great Britain; Blockworks; the London
Review of Books; and the Wordsworth Trust), ensuring that impact is not only built into our
research from the outset but that research is effectively co-created with non-academic
partners.

In the REF census period, the UoA’s growing research status is evidenced by outstanding
productivity according to every metric: 62 monographs and books published (an average of 1.9
per FTE staff member); 45 successful external awards generating a total income of
£1,328,740; and 78 postgraduate research students (PGRs) successfully completing their
degrees. This exceptional performance is reflected in a significant improvement to our position
in league tables: the UoA rose from 16th to 8th place (Times/Sunday Times, 2020) and 13th to
8th place for EL (Complete University Guide, 2020) and from 6th to 1st place (Times/Sunday
Times 2020-1) and 4th to 1st place (Complete University Guide) for CW (2020-1).

ii. Research Structure of UoA

In our UoA, research is conducted across the historical range of the discipline from Medieval
literature to 21st-Century literature, culture and film. It also takes place within dedicated
research centres and programmes like the Shakespeare Programme and the Wordsworth
Centre. To build upon this strong historical foundation, the UoA has also strategically
prioritised 8 trans-historical and interdisciplinary research clusters. In addition to 4 existing
clusters, which reflect longstanding areas of strength, we created 4 new clusters during the
census period via strategic appointments in the context of growing national and international
networks, planning for grant capture and embedding our impact and engagement strategy:
     Literature, space and place (BAINBRIDGE, BUSHELL, CARRUTHERS, EGAN,
         FARLEY, FINDLAY, HINDS, OAKLEY-BROWN, PEARCE, SHARPE). This cluster
         (formed in 2004) explores the relationship between literature and location from the
         medieval period to the present. It includes research on literary mapping, literary tourism
         and mobilities and brings literary studies into dialogue with human geography,
         migration studies and environmental criticism. In the census period, the cluster was
         strengthened by the strategic appointment of EGAN and includes outcomes such as
         BUSHELL’S AHRC-funded ‘Chronotopic Cartographies’ project (£607,962);
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    BAINBRIDGE’s Romanticism and Mountaineering (OUP, 2020); and Pearce’s
    Drivetime (EUP, 2016).
   Transcultural writing (C. BAKER, DICKINSON, GRASS, HAYER, LAMBERT,
    MOORE, MORT, O’DONOGHUE, SPIERS, PEARCE). This research centre (founded
    in 2007) promotes creative writing from a range of national and postcolonial contexts. It
    encompasses research-as-practice, action-research projects and explores the
    interrelationship between writing and social change. In the census period, this centre
    was enhanced by the strategic appointments of DICKINSON and O’DONOGHUE and
    outcomes include the centre’s conference Writing for Liberty, hosted in Lancaster
    (2015), Cape Town (2017) and Buenos Aires (2019); DICKINSON’s Romanticism and
    Aesthetic Life in Postcolonial Writing (Palgrave, 2018); and MOORE’s Narrating
    Postcolonial Arab Nations (Routledge, 2017).
   Gothic and science fiction (ASHWORTH, B. BAKER, ELLIOTT, HAYER, SPOONER,
    WASSON). This cluster (formed in 2006) capitalises on the UoA’s strengths in the
    Gothic, SF and related genres. It is distinctive in its focus on the multi-media and
    transhistorical contexts of the Gothic and other popular forms: film, television, fashion
    and art. In the census period, this cluster was augmented by the strategic appointment
    of WASSON and publications including HAYER’s play North Country (Bloomsbury
    Methuen, 2016); and SPOONER’s Post-Millennial Gothic (Bloomsbury, 2017), which
    was awarded the Allan Lloyd Smith Prize by the International Gothic Association in
    2019.
   Literature and religion (ASHWORTH, CARRUTHERS, EAGLETON, FINDLAY,
    HANLEY, HINDS, KNIGHT, MOORE, SCHAD, TATE). This cluster (formed in 2003)
    builds on the UoA’s expertise in literature and religion from the early modern period to
    modernity. It includes researchers working on Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Mormonism
    and Quakerism. In the census period, this cluster was enhanced by the strategic
    appointment of KNIGHT and outcomes include a Leverhulme Visiting Professorship
    award (£48,039) for Colin Jager (Rutgers); KNIGHT’s editorship of Literature and
    Theology (OUP); and publications such as EAGLETON’s Radical Sacrifice (Yale,
    2018); KNIGHT’s Good Words (Ohio State UP, 2019); and TATE’s Apocalyptic Fiction
    (Bloomsbury, 2017).
   Creative-critical writing (ASHWORTH, B. BAKER, CARRUTHERS, FARLEY,
    GRASS, MULDOON, PEETERS, SCHAD, SPIERS). This new cluster reflects the
    UoA’s strengths in one of the most innovative fields within contemporary literary
    studies. Its researchers bring together critical theory, practice-based research and new
    media to generate new experimental forms of writing. In the census period, this cluster
    was strengthened by the strategic appointment of PEETERS and outputs including
    GRASS’s AHRC-funded project ‘Translation as Creative Critical Practice’; (£4,589);
    SCHAD’s coedited book series Beyond Criticism (Bloomsbury/Boiler House); the
    journal LUNE (co-edited by ASHWORTH); ASHWORTH’S Notes Made While Falling
    (Goldsmiths, 2019); and PEETERS’ graphic fiction Samaris (Obscure Cities) (IDW,
    2017).
   Digital humanities (ASHWORTH, B. BAKER, BUSHELL, EGAN, FARLEY, FINDLAY,
    RUSTON, WASSON). This new cluster explores the field of digital literary studies. It
    includes staff working on digital mapping, crowdsourced online critical editions of
    manuscripts and new media forms such as online flash fictions. In the census period,
    this cluster was enhanced by the strategic appointment of EGAN and outcomes such
    as RUSTON’s AHRC-funded crowdsourced edition of the Notebooks of Davy
    (£78,758); FARLEY’s ‘The Places of Poetry’ (see 1.b below); and ASHWORTH and B.
    BAKER’s open access digital project The Barrow Rapture.
   Literature, science and medicine (B. BAKER, GREANEY, HAYER, HINDS,
    LAMBERT, OAKLEY-BROWN, RUSTON, WASSON). This newly formed cluster
    features researchers who specialise in the medical and scientific humanities. It contains
    research from the Romantic period to the present and investigates creative responses
    to pain, ill-health, and trauma, skin studies and sleep studies. In the census period, the
    cluster was boosted by the strategic appointment of WASSON and outcomes including
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       RUSTON’s AHRC Leadership Fellowship on the Letters of Davy (£191,050); WASSON
       and RUSTON’s AHRC Research Network on ‘Translating Chronic Pain’ (£30,218);
       GREANEY’s Wellcome Trust-funded Sleep Values symposium (£4,506) and Being
       Human Festival-funded After Dark events; and HINDS’ A Cultural History of Twin Beds
       (Bloomsbury 2019, and Wellcome-funded open access, reviewed and featured in The
       Guardian and The Atlantic).
    Literature, the arts, media, and performance (ASHWORTH, CORBETT, B. BAKER,
       GRASS, EGAN, ELLIOTT, HAYER, LAMBERT, MULDOON, PEETERS, SPIERS,
       TATE, WALLS). This new cluster brings together researchers working on literature in
       relation to the arts, media, or performance as practitioners, or scholars, or both. It
       explores literature in performance from the medieval period to the present including
       plays, film, new media, social media, graphic fiction and video games. In the census
       period, this cluster was boosted by the strategic appointments of HAYER, MULDOON,
       PEETERS and SPIERS and outputs including ELLIOTT’s Theorizing Adaptation/
       Adapting Theorization (OUP, 2020); SPIERS’s Pop-Feminist Narratives (OUP, 2018);
       and MULDOON’s One Thousand Things Worth Knowing (Faber, 2015, reviewed and
       featured in The Guardian, Telegraph and New York Times).
   The UoA and its research clusters are nested within the Faculty of Arts and Social
   Sciences (FASS), which has a strong interdisciplinary research culture. In particular, UoA
   staff participate fully in, and are supported by, FASS and University level research centres
   and institutes:
    Centre for Mobilities Research (CeMoRe). PEARCE has been Director (Humanities)
       of this University Centre since 2015. She has organised international conferences,
       symposia and seminars on mobilities (in which BAINBRIDGE, BUSHELL and
       CARRUTHERS also participated) and hosted visiting fellows from New Zealand, Brazil
       and South Korea. In 2016, she was CI on the AHRC award ‘Mobile Utopia’ (£15,000).
    Institute of Social Futures (ISF). SPIERS is Associate Director of the ISF and is also
       part of this University Institute’s core management group. BUSHELL and TATE have
       been annual ISF Fellows, participating in its activities as enabled by 20% teaching
       buyouts; GRASS’s AHRC/MEITS funded project ‘Translation as Creative Critical
       Practice’ (2019) is an ISF-based project; and PEARCE was CI on the ISF-led AHRC
       project, ‘Mobile Utopia’ (2016).
    Ruskin Library, Museum and Research Centre (Ruskin). EAGLETON delivered a
       public lecture at this University Research Centre (2018); BRADLEY organised an
       international symposium entitled Futures of Sacrifice (2018); GRASS organised the
       events On Translating Music and Philosophy and Literature, Politics, and the New
       Media with the novelist Noémi Lefebvre (2019); and SPOONER and TATE organised a
       seminar ‘Ruskin vs. Steampunk’ (2019).

b. Research & Impact Strategy

In line with the University’s Research Strategy for 2020, the UoA’s overall strategy is to boost
its global profile by appointing, developing and retaining high-quality staff in our research
areas; producing world-leading research and impact that changes thought and practice; and
attracting and recruiting high-quality postgraduate students.

i. To implement this overall objective, we have fulfilled our REF 2014 Research and Impact
Strategy in the following ways:
     Invested in staff and infrastructure. A series of strategic staff appointments have
        enhanced our global profile: MULDOON, described by the TLS as ‘the most significant
        English-language poet born since the Second World War’, was appointed as
        Distinguished Visiting Professor, and PEETERS, a graphic novelist and biographer,
        was appointed as the first ever Professor of Graphic Fiction and Comic Art in the UK –
        a position partly funded by The Lakes International Comic Art Festival. In the census
        period, the appointments of DICKINSON, EGAN, HAYER, KNIGHT, O’DONOGHUE,
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    SPIERS and WASSON (documented above) have also extended expertise in our
    research clusters.
   Maximised critical mass through internal synergies between research clusters.
    To enhance critical mass, the UoA engaged in a series of cross-cluster activities
    including lectures, readings and workshops by MULDOON, PEETERS and EAGLETON
    as well as public events with the philosopher Roberto Esposito (2015), musician P.J.
    Harvey (2017) and former Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams (2020). In
    addition, the UoA hosted a series of major conferences, which attracted cross-cluster
    participation and boosted synergies: Writing and Liberty (2015), Early Modern
    Experiences of Trust and Risk (2017) and Futures of Sacrifice (2018).
   Reached out to other disciplines, sharing and deepening knowledge. We have
    collaborated with colleagues in other UoAs as well as with FASS and University
    research centres on a series of flagship externally funded projects. PEARCE organised
    the conference ‘Mobile Utopia’ (2017, 300 attendees) and the inaugural conference of
    Konkuk’s Academy of Mobility Humanities (2019). BUSHELL worked with History and
    the University’s Regional Heritage Centre on the Leverhulme-funded project
    ‘Geospatial Innovation in the Digital Humanities’. She then led her own mapping project
    on imaginary place and space within EL (the AHRC ‘Chronotopic Cartographies’
    project, 2017-20) for which colleagues in History were Co-Investigators (CIs). FINDLAY
    collaborated with LaEL on an AHRC-funded project ‘Encyclopaedia of Shakespeare's
    Language’. In 2019, she and the team presented their findings at a public symposium
    and FINDLAY appeared on BBC Radio 3’s ‘New Thinking’ series (2019).
   Developed and enlarged international connections and networks. For our UoA, the
    expansion of our international research networks across our strategic clusters is a key
    priority. MORT and MOORE’s leadership of the Centre for Transcultural Writing
    generated new research and impact networks in Europe, Africa and the Middle East
    including non-HEI partners like FEMRITE Women’s Writers Association (Uganda).
    BAINBRIDGE, BUSHELL, EGAN and OAKLEY-BROWN are collaborating with our
    strategic partner institution Lausanne on projects on both early modern subjectivity and
    Romantic literature and place. KNIGHT was Co-Director of two National Endowment for
    the Humanities (NEH) Summer Faculty Seminars on Literature and religion at Iowa.
    FINDLAY also participated in the ‘Trust and Risk in Literature’ network comprising
    members from Aarhus, UC Irvine and Tokyo.
   Developed innovative research that addresses contemporary issues. The UoA
    has positioned itself at the forefront of innovative research methods and ideas.
    BUSHELL et al have become leaders in Digital humanities and SCHAD et al. are
    pioneers in Creative-critical writing. We have also pursued research into
    contemporary social issues with public policy dimensions: mental and physical illness
    (ASHWORTH, LAMBERT, WASSON); transport, mobility and migration flows
    (PEARCE); social care (LAMBERT); public housing and social planning (SCHAD);
    energy production (HAYER); public knowledge of science (BUSHELL, RUSTON); and
    environmental crises (DICKINSON, SPIERS).
   Embedded research within communities and worked with non-HEI institutions.
    This UoA works with non-HEI institutions, communities and stakeholders at every stage
    of our projects from planning to delivery. Examples of the range of our activities from
    the local to the international level include LAMBERT’s ‘What’s Your Story’ project,
    supported by Family Action and Carers Trust 4, in which she worked with the publisher
    ‘Writing on the Wall’ to produce an anthology of young carers’ creative writing which
    was launched at The Contact Theatre and featured on BBC Radio Manchester in 2015.
    Nationally, WASSON (PI) and RUSTON’s AHRC-funded ‘Translating Chronic Pain’
    research network engaged extensively with communities of people living with pain, as
    well as national charities including the umbrella UK pain charity, Pain UK, with a focus
    on shaping government policy. By offering user groups the forum to create their own
    fictions, the project not only transformed such groups into active research communities
    in their own right but raised national and international awareness of the complexities of
    pain. C. BAKER’s international collaborations around albinism include: work with the
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        UN Human Rights Council and the Witchcraft and Human Rights Information Network
        towards a UN Resolution stemming from her Wellcome Trust-funded ‘Albinism in Africa’
        project; her work with Standing Voice (NGO) underpinning an information booklet on
        Albinism for teachers in Tanzania; and her collaborative AHRC-funded Disability and
        Inclusion Africa research project with academic and non-academic partners in Nigeria,
        Cameroon, Tanzania and South Africa. SPIERS leads an ongoing collaboration (2017-)
        with the MoD’s Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (DSTL), bringing together
        academics and creative writers with defence personnel and scientists for co-designed
        workshops on topics such as ‘Living in a Post-Antibiotic World”, and producing a
        collection of speculative fictions to help the DSTL imagine the social and cultural
        implications of their future-thinking. In the words of John Carney, Senior Principal
        Scientist at DSTL, this project ‘provided the basis of some great vignettes for our
        Futures Research Programme’ and a ‘Military colleague (a Lt Col)’ also commented
        that the event was ‘exceptionally useful’.
In summary, a key feature of our research and impact strategy is to combine our research
excellence with the expertise of non-HEI partners including charities, museums, libraries,
schools, commercial companies, NGOs, heritage sites, theatres and community groups. To
produce further pathways to impact, we co-create research outputs with our partners that are
of value both within and beyond the academy in forms such as publications, exhibitions,
performances and educational tools. Our Impact Case Studies (ICSs) are also underpinned by
partnerships with organisations such as The Wordsworth Trust, The British Library, Penshurst
Place, the BBC and Minecraft. The ICSs also highlight our commitment to sharing the
outcomes of our research with the wider public via Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs):
we have created three such free online courses which have run several times, directly sharing
our research with over 28,000 members of the public internationally. In addition, non-HEI
partnerships have been crucial to reaching the desired end-users of our research, particularly
when creating educational tools: BUSHELL’S Litcraft project for enhancing literacy and reading
for pleasure among a range of beneficiaries was made possible by a roll-out to local and
regional schools and libraries in Devon, Lancashire, London, Somerset and Yorkshire. Finally,
our commitment to making our research as available as possible is exemplified by our use of
wide-ranging media channels to promote it (see 4.c below).

ii. Plans for Future Research 2021-26

In order to fulfil our Research & Impact Strategy (see 1.b above), we are building on our REF
2014 Research Strategy and the University’s Research Strategy for 2020 by putting in place a
new set of strategic objectives for the next REF cycle. It should be stressed that we have
carefully considered the implications of the Covid-19 pandemic on our future strategy and we
are confident our aims are achievable. We will:
     Develop, recruit and retain world-leading researchers. We will seek to develop and
        retain existing researchers as well as recruiting new staff to fulfil the University’s
        Research Strategy of becoming a global leader. Our UoA already has a strong track
        record of developing research leaders, as 4 promotions to Senior Lecturer, 2
        promotions to Reader and 5 promotions to Professor, including 2 to Band 2 Professor,
        in the census period testify. To turn to potential new recruitment, the UoA will seek to
        capitalise upon our recruitment in the previous cycle (9 new or replacement
        appointments including 2 at professorial level) by making strategic appointments that
        enhance our research clusters. Future areas of growth that require investment include
        graphic media and scriptwriting (Literature, the arts, media and performance) and
        world literature (Transcultural writing). In the next census period, it is envisaged that
        the UoA’s reputation for research excellence (evidenced by league table positions, REF
        and Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF) performance and external grant capture)
        will be one key source for future recruitment both in the form of new and replacement
        appointments.
     Prioritise research that changes practice and thinking. To capitalise upon our
        position as an innovator in EL and CW, we will continue to address the University’s
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    2020 strategy by undertaking research ‘that changes practice and thinking’.
    BUSHELL’s pioneering work on literary mapping creates digital tools for mapping
    textual places with wide application across the humanities and social sciences. It forms
    one key strand of a new cross-disciplinary Digital Hub in FASS, and BUSHELL’s ISF
    fellowship will forge connections between the ISF and the Hub going forward. After the
    success of her pilot project on Davy’s Notebooks, RUSTON is now
    seeking major AHRC funding to crowdsource transcriptions of the remaining notebooks
    via Zooniverse from 2021, and will publish the transcriptions, produced by the
    participants themselves, on an open access website. This publication will enhance
    public knowledge of the work of a leading British scientist as well as public
    understanding of science more broadly. RUSTON is also CI on a new £990,273
    Wellcome Trust bid on assisted reproductive technologies, ‘Future of Human
    Reproduction’. For KNIGHT et al, the UoA’s expertise in Literature and religion
    (evidenced by monographs, the annual Priory Lecture, international visitors and impact
    work with local churches) will be extended by HINDS’ AHRC application for a project on
    Quakerism (c.£570,000) and the launch of a new centre:
    literatureandreligion@lancaster. By submitting an AHRC Leadership bid on the
    therapeutic value of literature in the care of patients with chronic pain, WASSON will
    extend her research in in Literature, science and medicine. The work of DICKINSON
    on Literature, space and place will be enhanced by an application for an AHRC Early
    Career Leadership Fellowship with one key outcome being the establishment of an
    Environmentalities hub in collaboration with the Ruskin and the Lancaster Environment
    Centre. In the work of ASHWORTH et al, the UoA has established itself as a world
    leader in Creative-critical writing: ASHWORTH will continue to co-edit the critical-
    creative journal LUNE and SCHAD will host a series of free public events featuring
    MULDOON and others and launch a research hub called postcriticism@lancaster.
   Consolidate and extend national and international research collaborations. In the
    next REF period, we will further extend our international collaborations. For example,
    PEARCE’s leadership in mobility studies has resulted in the establishment of two new
    funded research centres at Padua and Konkuk: a Memorandum of Understanding has
    been developed between Lancaster, Padua and Konkuk, which describes a 5-year
    collaboration with our UoA. MORT has been appointed to an Extraordinary Chair at the
    Western Cape, where he will participate in a 3-year Mellon Foundation-funded research
    project ‘Rethinking South African Literatures’. In addition, SCHAD will work with our
    incoming Marie Curie Fellow, writer-scholar Elina Mikkila, to host an international and
    multi-lingual video conference and establish an international research network in
    Creative-critical writing.
   Extend and enhance research impact and engagement by working with user
    communities and non-HEI institutions. Finally, the UoA will build upon its existing
    impact on non-HEI users, beneficiaries and stakeholders. Impact remains a key priority
    for our ongoing projects: for example, C. BAKER’s AHRC-funded ‘Disability and
    Inclusion Africa Network’ draws on international dialogue at events in Nigeria,
    Cameroon, Tanzania, South Africa and the UK. By using collaborative research,
    fieldwork, and community engagement, this project creates a step-change in the way
    disability is understood by communities, civil society, international development and the
    academy. We will continue to co-design our research with educational and commercial
    partners. BUSHELL is developing impactful outcomes on her ‘Chronotopic
    Cartographies’ and ‘Litcraft’ projects, submitting a £1million bid to the EHRC for a
    project entitled ‘Re-engaging Reluctant Readers in a Digital Age’ and collaborating with
    non-HEI partners such as the National Literacy Trust and Minecraft.edu to enhance
    literacy and reading pleasure amongst ‘reluctant readers’ in schools, libraries and the
    general public. An AHRC follow-on bid is in progress to work with commercial partners
    Blockworks on a major Sherlock Holmes project. We will also ensure that our research
    benefits as wide a range of educational organisations as possible. ELLIOTT has a
    Lancaster University Widening Participation Grant to support the UoA’s creation of
    research-based resources for teachers of Years 9-13 and she has been mentoring
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       postgraduates and postdocs to help them create and utilise these resources. Our
       research will also continue to inform government and policy-making bodies: SPIERS is
       participating in DEFRA’s Futures Advisory Group (2020-) to help it develop its post-
       Covid-19 strategy. She will continue her creative futures work with the MoD’s
       Development Concepts and Doctrine Centre (DCDC) by contributing to its Global
       Strategic Trends events. The UoA will further develop its research-based partnerships
       with cultural and heritage sector organisations. Our formal Strategic Partnership with
       the Wordsworth Trust is ongoing and BAINBRIDGE, as a Trustee, will work with the
       Trust on its post-Covid-19 strategy, creating a series of online events with its curator,
       Jeff Cowton, and designing a research project to examine the future of the literary
       museum in the post-Covid age. Having played a major role in the celebrations of
       Wordsworth 250, BAINBRIDGE, BUSHELL, CORBETT, RUSTON are now working
       with the Trust on the 250th anniversary of Dorothy Wordsworth’s birth in 2021 and will
       again reach a wide range of publics through collaborative research with several
       partners (including the BBC, National Trust, Lake District National Park Authority). In
       the local community, we will consolidate and extend our partnerships with a range of
       user groups including the Lancaster Litfest Literary Festival (HAYER, SCHAD), the
       Kendal Comic Festival (TATE, PEETERS) and Kendal Mountain Festival
       (BAINBRIDGE), for which Lancaster University became the Academic Partner in 2019.
This research strategy will be reviewed and updated in the light of annual Performance and
Development Reviews (PDRs) for all our staff members. In measuring the success of this
strategy, we will utilise key performance indicators such as peer review, future REF and KEF
exercises, external benchmarks and comparators of research quality as well as quantitative
and qualitative data on PGR recruitment, research outputs, grant capture and engagement.

iii. Research systems, structures and sustainability

In the UoA, and across the Faculty and University more widely, rigorous structures are in place
to enable, maximise and sustain research:
     Sustaining individual research. A dedicated Research and Impact Committee (RIC)
        chaired by the Director of Research (DoR) and including representatives from each
        major research area, colleagues at every career stage and a 50:50 gender balance,
        meets termly to develop and implement research strategy. The DoR undertakes 1:1
        meetings with all staff at key moments in the census period and the longer-term
        research cycle to advise on research, bids, and publication plans. In addition to the
        University’s annual PDR scheme, the UoA has instituted a formal system of research
        mentorship that is available to all staff. Individual research performance is monitored at
        Departmental level by the DoR and Head of Department (HoD) and at Faculty level by
        the Dean and Associate Dean for Research, and systems are in place to approve
        sabbaticals and to monitor the attainment of research targets.
     Sustaining collaborative research. To cross-fertilise research, the UoA funds annual
        research days, workshops and visiting academic and non-academic speakers in areas
        of strategic priority. We have a unique partnership with the London Review of Books
        (wholly funded by the latter) where, each year, LRB journalist Chris Tayler visits
        Lancaster to deliver seminars and tutorials. We host events with distinguished guests
        including the philosopher Elettra Stimilli (2019), the literary critic Peter Boxall (2018)
        and Leverhulme-funded Visiting Professor of Literature and religion, Colin Jager
        (2018). In addition, the RIC plays an instrumental role in sustaining a collaborative
        research culture by co-ordinating grant bids and other research activities.
     Sustaining research integrity and research ethics. For our UoA, research ethics is a
        priority and a rigorous system is in place to approve and monitor ethical research. We
        follow the ethical standards set out in Lancaster University’s Code of Practice, and
        ethical guidelines specified by the research councils (UKRI), other funding bodies and
        subject-specific professional organisations. We also implement procedures via an
        Ethics Officer who is a standing member of the FASS and Lancaster University
        Management School Research Ethics Committee (REC). To ensure all new research
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    meets required ethical standards, the Ethics Officer (i) mentors students and
    colleagues when preparing their research ethics applications; (ii) represents
    applications submitted to REC; and (iii) provides feedback on REC decisions. While all
    research applications within the UoA are reviewed by one or more members of the
    Committee, more complex cases are reviewed by the full REC. In all cases, research
    must be approved before it can commence.
 Sustaining open access to research. The UoA is fully committed to Open Access
    (OA) research. The University subscribes to Research England’s policy on OA. It
    makes all journal articles and conference proceedings OA available in its institutional
    repository Pure within 3 months of acceptance for publication. Additionally, the Library
    supports the Knowledge Unlatched initiative and is playing a key role in preparing
    policies and infrastructure in anticipation of Plan S by contributing to the UKRI open
    access review. For RUSTON’s AHRC-funded project on Davy, hi-res images of 612
    pages of Davy’s notebooks are publicly available online. This project is the pilot for her
    new AHRC Research Grant grant, which uses Lancaster’s Digital Library to host 9364
    pages of Davy’s notebooks, currently held at the Royal Institution. In addition to
    depositing outputs in the institutional repository PURE, research staff publicise their
    work in commercial repositories like academia.edu and ResearchGate.
 Sustaining research through Faculty and University support. Finally, the
    University’s Research Support Office (RSO) supports staff in capturing research
    funding at every stage of the cycle from planning to post-award by advising on
    appropriate funding schemes; supporting the grant-writing process; organising training
    workshops; and managing the post-award process. The Library’s Research Data
    Management service ensures that data is managed throughout the lifecycle of a project
    including preserving and making it accessible in the longer term. For impact and
    engagement activities, the UoA is supported by an Impact Development Manager;
    Impact Support Officer; Business and Partnership Manager; and Engagement and
    Partnership Manager. SPOONER participated in the ESRC Impact Acceleration
    Account-funded Bright Club, a workshop training academics to use stand-up comedy to
    communicate their research, leading to a live performance to a paying audience at the
    Borough Pub (Lancaster). In addition, individual staff can apply to FASS research funds
    to support research projects, impact and research internationalisation (see 3.b below
    for details).
In this integrated system of policies and procedures, staff research performance is not only
supported across the life of a research package from planning to completion, but across
the entirety of the researcher’s career from the short-term perspective of a REF cycle to
longer-term developmental goals.
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


2. People

a. Staff Profile

In 2020, the UoA has 39 Category A staff employed on indefinite contracts. It also has a mix of
long-serving members of staff (15 or more years) and a number of recent and new members,
often appointed at Lancaster to their first indefinite position. See Figure 1 below for a
breakdown of the age profile of staff on research and teaching contracts:




                                   Figure 1: Staff Age Profile

In terms of gender profile, the UoA is also evenly balanced and we have a mix of staff who
originate from the UK, from the EU and Overseas (see 2.e below). We also benefit from a large
number of international Visiting Scholars (see 2.e below).

b. Staffing Strategy

To fulfil its Research & Impact Strategy (see 1.b above), and in line with Lancaster’s
Institutional Environment Statement, the UoA seeks to attract, recruit, develop and retain
world-leading researchers by making appointments at every level that consolidate existing
areas of strength and increase the critical mass of our strategic priority clusters. In order to
implement this strategy during the census period, we have made senior appointments such as
MULDOON as well as new and replacement appointments at both early and mid-career levels
(including SPIERS and WASSON as research-focused University Anniversary Lecturers) in
such fields as medieval literature, writing for the stage and new media.

c. Staff Development

In order to support and sustain the development of individual researchers across their entire
career, we have put in place a suite of interlocking policies:
     Individual staff support. A standardised workload model ensures that individual
        workloads are fair and transparent. To support research, all permanent staff receive an
        annual personal research allowance of £1,000 (pro rata for staff on fractional contracts)
        and can apply for additional support from our Research and Development (R and D)
        budget. All staff are contractually entitled, under University regulations, to apply for
        regular periods of research leave and researchers are also eligible to apply, on a
        competitive basis, for additional leave to prepare major grant applications. The annual
        PDR gives staff support on career progression including research development. In
        addition, the UoA encourages staff to attend University career progression events, such
        as the regular ‘Making Professor’ workshops, which offer support on promotion for staff
        at every career stage.
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       Specific support for early career researchers (ECRs). To support the developmental
        needs of ECRs, we give them 25% workload reductions while on probation (in line with
        Faculty and University policy). We also dedicate funds from our R and D budget to
        support seedcorn activities, which are commonly required by ECR appointments. The
        UoA appoints a research and impact mentor for all ECRs and new appointments to
        support their developmental needs. This system of research mentoring was extended in
        2019 to all staff. Finally, the HoD holds regular review meetings with new staff as part
        of the University’s Human Resources (HR) policy on probation.
     Faculty support for staff. The UoA also encourages all permanent staff to apply for
        research funds from FASS and we have been awarded a total of £60,348 over the
        census period. To develop research networks in Uganda, MORT secured a £5,000
        Faculty kickstart grant (2017). In many cases, internal funding has underpinned
        successful external funding bids: BUSHELL’s £607,962 AHRC project ‘Chronotopic
        Cartographies’ was first supported by a FASS award of £1,000. RUSTON also received
        a FASS Impact award (£931) to further impact-related activity alongside her successful
        AHRC Leadership Fellowship (£191,050) grant on the letters of Humphry Davy.
In the period 2014-2019, our success in nurturing research careers is indicated by 30
academic promotions at all levels as well as significant internal grant capture to enable staff to
complete major externally funded research projects.

d. Research Students

i. Integration into UoA

In order to integrate our RSs, we have policies in place from Departmental to University level.
First, all RSs are given opportunities for training both in the UoA (by taking a compulsory
research methodologies course and auditing relevant undergraduate or MA courses) and in the
Faculty (by taking skills modules from the Research Training Programme (RTP) such as
Critical Theory for Postgraduate Research). All PhD supervision is monitored and documented
through both written records and a virtual portal (ELCW Supervisor Meetings), which permits
the Director of Graduate Studies (DoGS) to maintain an overview of progress. In the census
period, 78 RSs successfully completed PhDs (out of 86 registered) and research degrees
awarded rose from 11 in 2013/14 to 19 in 2019/20.

To give them experience and training, RSs participate in, and organise, a range of activities
and events, including presenting papers at Departmental seminars. They participate in
individual consultations, seminars and workshops with EAGLETON, MULDOON and
PEETERS, as well as writing tutorials with Chris Tayler from the LRB. Students are
encouraged to attend events organised by staff and are given the resources to lead research
activities of their own, like study days in Transcultural writing. In the case of Distance
Learning students, dedicated virtual learning environments enable an equivalent level of
participation to that enjoyed by campus-based students.

RSs also organise their own conferences such as Global Fantastika, an annual international
symposium on the Gothic and science fiction. To perform their work, CW students
participate in an annual ‘Showcase’ event. Further opportunities to share research are
provided by annual field trips to the Lake District and/or the Swiss Alps. We encourage
students to present papers at national and international conferences, supporting them through
Departmental and Faculty funding. In the census period, RSs have not only given papers
around the world but have also been appointed to research positions such as Vernon’s
fellowship at the Institute of Sacred Music (Yale).

The UoA’s integration of its RSs into its community is evidenced by the fact that many are
already published ECRs. In the census period, our students have published articles prior to
PhD submission (for example, Aquilina in Textual Practice and McGann in The Seventeenth
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Century) and established, edited and contributed to the online e-journals Antae, Errant and
Fantastika and the literary magazines CAKE and LUX.

ii. Training of Research Students

In the UoA, all RSs receive training both via dedicated Departmental modules and a portfolio of
modules in the Faculty RTP. To identify and meet training needs, all RSs carry out an annual
Development Needs Analysis and MA and PhD students take a research methodology course,
which integrates subject-specific skills with professional development for ECRs. The EL course
culminates in a one-day assessed conference, organised by the students as a showcase for
their work, which further embeds academic and professional development. RSs’ training needs
are also identified by supervisors and other specialists via an annual review of their research:
they are encouraged to take relevant Faculty modules (such as Presenting Conference
Papers) to fill training gaps. The DoGS runs EL and CW Work in Progress groups fortnightly
for all RSs, which combine peer review of work with sessions on professional development
(writing CVs, the REF). Students teaching within departments are encouraged to take the
University’s Associate Teacher Programme (ATP) as well as the Introduction to Teaching at
Lancaster (ITL) and also benefit from in-house training on teaching and marking in the
Department.

To maintain an overview of the students’ academic progress and research environment, the
DoGS reviews needs on a case-by-case basis and chairs a Postgraduate Committee which
meets termly. The progress of individual students is monitored through the virtual portal ELCW
Supervisor Meetings as well as compulsory annual panels. For RSs in their second year (or
equivalent), a PhD Confirmation Panel scrutinises and approves – subject to satisfactory
performance – progression from probationary to full PhD status: RSs are required to submit a
15,000-word confirmation portfolio to a two-person panel for review. In addition to reviewing
academic progression, panels review career development: RSs at the end of the PhD cycle are
given a mock-Viva in preparation for the formal examination and panel members advise on
potential routes to publication and post-doctoral grant capture.

In addition to academic training, the UoA – backed by the Faculty and the University – provides
transferrable skills and supports career development for RSs seeking an alternative to an
academic career. To provide advice on alternative career pathways, the University’s Careers
Service gives annual sessions to MA students and RSs. We also employ RSs within the
Department in appropriate positions such as Outreach and School Liaisons Officer. In this
capacity, we do not simply seek to provide employability training for its RSs but to actively give
them employment experience and transferrable skills.

iii. Sustaining Recruitment of Research Students

In order to enhance the high quality and quantity of our research students, we recruit externally
funded RSs via our participation in the AHRC-funded North West Consortium Doctoral Training
Programme (NWCDTP).18 students received NWCDTP studentships in EL and CW during the
census period which is 6 more than any other Department in the University. The UoA benefits
from funding investment at postgraduate level within the University in the form of Faculty fee-
waivers: our RSs have been awarded 41 fee-waiver bursaries in the census period. This
internal support is invaluable in recruiting high quality PhD candidates who may have been
unsuccessful in the NWCDTP competition.
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

iv. Maximising Future Career Development of Research Students

Finally, our strong track record on sustaining our RSs at every stage of their research career is
demonstrated by their future career destinations as well as those of our RAs and Teaching
Assistants (TAs). Our students have gone on to academic positions at universities in the UK
and internationally, including permanent lectureships at An-Najah, Palestine; Central
Lancashire; Keele; Oxford Brookes; Manchester Metropolitan (2 former PhDs appointed during
the census period); Nottingham; and Sheffield Hallam, as well as a Presidential Fellowship at
Manchester (Christou). In addition, former RSs have published monographs with Cambridge
University Press (Christou, Evans); novels with Dialogue (Battle-Felton) and Seren (Kruger);
been awarded, short-listed, long-listed or received honourable mentions for literary prizes such
as the Arts Council’s Northern Writers Award and the Women’s Prize for Fiction (Battle-Felton);
the Commonwealth Short Story Prize and the Windham Campbell Prize for Fiction (Makumbi);
the MacMillan African Writing Prize (Namukaza); the George Markov Prize and the BBC
African Performance Playwriting Prize (Asyanbi); and the University English Book Prize
(Christou).

e. Equal Opportunities, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

In terms of staffing, our UoA has a strong story to tell about its commitment to EDI issues.
First, our academic teaching and research staff gender balance is nearly even with 48%
female and 52% male. The gender balance of the workforce across the UoA as a whole is 52%
female and 48% male. In terms of senior academic staff, our gender balance is also nearly
even: we have 7 female and 10 male professors, but 3 of the latter are 0.2 fractional visiting
appointments and so the FTE gender balance is 6.7 female and 7.3 male professors. The
Department has also had 3 female HoDs during the census period. Please see Figure 2 below
for a breakdown of staff profile by gender:




                                 Figure 2: Staff Gender Profile

To turn to race equality and cultural diversity, we recognise that far more work needs to be
done at unit, institutional and indeed sector level: we have 1 BAME staff member, 1 staff
member from mixed/multiple ethnic groups and 3 staff with declared disabilities. In order to
address this, the University has already established a Strategic Race Advisory Group and
committed to signing up to the Race Equality Charter in April 2021 and we are also instituting a
Decolonising the Curriculum initiative to ensure racial and cultural diversity at all levels
including PGT and PGR. See Figure 3 below for a profile of staff by ethnicity and disability:
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                          Figure 3: Staff Ethnicity and Disability Profile

In the UoA, we subscribe to the Athena SWAN Charter for EDI and are the recipient of an
Athena SWAN Bronze Award (2019). The University is also a signatory to the Concordat to
Support the Career Development of Researchers. To implement and review our core EDI
strategy, we have put in place an integrated system for all staff:
     The UoA has: (i) a dedicated administrative role for EDI; (ii) inaugurated an EDI
        committee, which meets termly and feeds back to all departmental committees via a
        standing EDI item; and (iii) allocates workload points for staff to address EDI issues. All
        staff are required to participate in EDI training. In addition, FASS has created an
        Associate Dean for EDI and the University has a PVC for Education and EDI (2019).
     To provide an equal opportunity to engage in research, all staff in the UoA are entitled
        to apply for regular periods of study leave (one term of leave after seven terms of
        teaching or one year after seven years). Periods of research activity interrupted for
        reasons of illness, maternity or paternity count towards sabbatical entitlement. In the
        REF period, 83 allocated terms of research leave were taken, as well as 5 terms of
        externally funded research leave.
     For staff taking parental leave, we follow HR guidance on maternity and adoption leave,
        including setting up a communications plan prior to leave; organising keeping-in-touch
        (KIT) days; agreeing a return-to-work plan; and the consideration of a temporary
        reduced workload on return. It was agreed in 2019 that all staff returning from parental
        leave will have a 1:1 meeting with the HoD to ensure a smooth return to work. The UoA
        adheres to University policy on Remote Working and Flexible Working. In the case of
        staff returning from extended sick leave, we follow HR procedures: a phased return to
        work is put in place and meetings are arranged with the HoD, HR and Occupational
        Health Officers to enable this.
     Our UoA is implementing the University’s Strategic Vision 2020 for EDI. We support the
        mental health and wellbeing of staff by providing access to a range of professional
        support through the Employee Assistance Programme. Additionally, the University has
        adopted the Five Ways to Wellbeing framework, used by the government and charities
        like MIND and the NHS, to help improve the mental health and wellbeing of its staff.
        The University is also a member of the government’s Disability Confident Scheme, the
        Stonewall Global Diversity Champions programme for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and
        Trans Equality and it will join the Race Equality Charter in 2021.
     The UoA has welcomed 41 visiting international scholars in the census period and
        integrated them into Departmental activities by inviting them to attend seminars,
        lectures and symposia, to deliver papers and have one-to-one consultations with staff.
        In 2018, British Academy Visiting Fellow Barnita Bagchi (Utrecht) collaborated with
        PEARCE on a colloquium on Transnational Utopias and CeMoRe also hosted visiting
        scholar Jinhyoung Lee (Konkuk) in 2020.
     Research Associates (RAs) participate fully in the annual cycle of PDRs and are given
        the opportunity to gain teaching and supervisory experience. As previously mentioned,
        PhD students who undertake teaching are encouraged to undertake the University’s
        ATP. In addition, RAs have their own representative on RIC and at Departmental
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        Meetings, as well as a research mentor, to ensure their developmental needs are
        addressed.
This strategy will be reviewed and updated as appropriate by the EDI Director and the EDI
Committee. In order to fulfil its EDI objectives, the Department will measure its performance
against qualitative and quantitative data on staffing, PGR recruitment, research outputs and
grant capture as well as external benchmarks like the Athena SWAN Charter and the
Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

a. Generation of Research Awards:

In the REF census period, the UoA made 23 successful applications for internal awards
generating total award value of £64,419 and 45 successful applications for external awards
generating total award value of £1,282,432. This sum not only represents a substantial
increase from the previous REF period but research awards also grew significantly across the
census period from £26,650 in 2013/14 to £678,662 in 2016/17 and to £212,132 in 2018/19.
Please see Figure 4 below for a table of our total research grant award value per FTE staff:




                     Figure 4: Total Research Grant Award Value per FTE staff

b. Research Income Generation Strategy:

To grow research income, our UoA seeks to embed, sustain and extend a culture of research
applications at every level from small pilot projects through to major bids. We fulfil the
University’s strategic priority of continuing ‘to grow and diversify our research income’
(University Strategy 2020) by securing pump-priming awards from internal Faculty funds, and
larger external funds from funders such as the UK AHRC and the US-based NEH. Our UoA
incentivises and supports staff to apply for research funding through a combination of PDRs,
research mentoring and workload relief (see 2.c above). In the census period, this strategy has
produced a culture of research income generation leading to a range of awards:

i. Internal Faculty and University Awards: In 2014, for example, PEARCE was awarded an
£8,000 Knowledge Exchange Fund grant for her project Moving Manchester into Schools and
MORT received a £4,998 Global Challenges Research Fund award for his ‘Festival of African
Futures’.

ii. External RCUK/Government Awards (PI only): BUSHELL received an AHRC Major Award
of £607,962 for her project ‘Creating a Chronotopic Ground for the Mapping of Literary Texts’
(2017-20). RUSTON was awarded £191,050 from the AHRC for her ‘A Man of Science and
Poetry: Humphry Davy´s Letters, Life and Legacy’ project (2015).
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



iii. Overseas Awards (PI only): In addition, HINDS was awarded $19,000 from the National
Endowment for the Humanities (US) for her critical edition of Anna Trapnel’s Report and Plea
(2012-14).

Please see Figure 5 below for a breakdown of the distribution of awards by funder type:




                        Figure 5: Distribution of Awards by Funder Type

c. Organisational and Operational Infrastructure Supporting Research:

To support staff at every stage of the research bid cycle from bid-writing to post-award, the
UoA has put the following infrastructures in place:

We incentivise staff to apply for funding (as indicated at 2.c above) by offering workload relief
above the normal sabbatical entitlement. Systems (such as the PDR and Research Mentorship
scheme) support staff at different career stages, set appropriate goals for grant capture, and
monitor the attainment of targets. The termly RIC meetings coordinate and approve bids for
funding. Our UoA Annual Research Day provides a forum for longer-term research income
generation strategy.

In an institutional context, the UoA is located within FASS, which ranks in the top 100 for both
Arts and Humanities and Social Sciences (THE World University Rankings 2020) and has a
strong interdisciplinary research culture supported by University structures. We benefit from
the support of the RSO, which assists research staff throughout the cycle of a grant application
(see 1.b above). Our UoA profits from the infrastructural support of research centres/institutes
such as CeMoRe, the ISF and the Ruskin. Staff can also apply for Faculty research funds to
support projects, impact and internationalisation (see 3.b above). In the census period,
BUSHELL, BRADLEY and RUSTON all received FASS seedcorn funding for pilot research
projects.

d. Scholarly Infrastructure Supporting Research

The UoA benefits from significant scholarly infrastructure including archives, special collections
and digital resources. First, the Ruskin is a major resource for scholars like BAINBRIDGE and
BUSHELL who work on literature of the long 19th Century. Special collections within the
Library, such as The Quaker Collection, have enabled HINDS’ work on religious literature.
Second, at a regional level, BAINBRIDGE et al work with the Jerwood Collection at the
Wordsworth Trust, which contains 90% of Wordsworth’s manuscripts. The University Library
hosts digital resources, including journal stores like JSTOR; Project Muse; Academic Search
Complete; the Cambridge Digital Library Platform; the DNB and online OED; as well as
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

specialist databases such as Early English Books Online (EEBO) and Eighteenth-Century
Collections Online (ECCO), which are crucial for researchers working on early materials. The
Library’s new £11 million extension (opening early 2021), will include a suite of specialist areas
dedicated to academic research, including a Collaborative Research Space, Project Space and
Digital Scholarship Lab, plus an exhibition space to support the display of practice-based
research outputs. This new extension will provide greater space for Library-based research
and for delivery of training for researchers. In her AHRC-funded ‘Encyclopaedia of
Shakespeare's Language’ project, for example, FINDLAY worked with the University’s
collection of digital corpora (including the LOB family of parallel corpora and the Corpus of
Early Modern English Dialogues).

e. Estates and Facilities Supporting Research

In the census period, the University has invested heavily in upgrading the campus and creating
new research space. Staff have their own offices with networked computers, access to printers
as well as access to meeting spaces with kitchen facilities. All research students have office
space within the Department and access to computing labs, printers and meeting spaces. The
Library’s extensive refurbishment (£8.6 million 2014-16), has created many individual learning
spaces for students. In addition, the UoA is currently supported by a total of 4.17 FTE
administrative staff.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
a. Research Collaboration
In our REF 2021 Research & Impact Strategy (see 1.b above), we identify local, national and
international collaborations as a priority. This work with internal and external partners is
evidenced in the following ways:
     University, local and regional collaboration. Our UoA has a strong track record of
        interdisciplinary research which makes it a natural hub for cross-departmental
        collaborations. It works with other departments and schools in the University including
        Computing, History, Management School, Medical School, LaEL, LICA, Politics,
        Philosophy and Religion, and Sociology. As mentioned above (see 1.a) the UoA works
        closely with University research centres and institutes like CeMoRe, the ISF and the
        Ruskin. In the region, the UoA collaborates with schools, museums, libraries and
        businesses: SCHAD, KNIGHT and CARRUTHERS worked with Stonyhurst College
        Library on a Hopkins study day; BAINBRIDGE and BUSHELL work with the
        Wordsworth Trust on Wordsworth Walks; and SCHAD, WALLS and HAYER are directly
        involved in the Lancaster literary festival, LitFest.
     National and international collaborations by individuals. Building upon local
        collaborations, our UoA also has strong national research relationships. For example,
        BUSHELL’s AHRC-funded project on digital literary mapping involves partnerships with
        the British Library, the Wordsworth Trust and the Alan Turing Institute as well as
        Padua, Virginia and Stanford’s LitLab. FINDLAY’s ICS ‘Shakespeare’s Sisters’ entails a
        collaboration with Penshurst Place in Kent. In RUSTON’s AHRC-funded Leadership
        Fellowship and AHRC Follow-on-Funding project on Davy, she works extensively with
        the Royal Institution of Great Britain.
     International networks and collaborations. In addition, the UoA is extending its
        international research footprint. Adding to the international scope of BUSHELL’s project
        on digital literary mapping, MORT is leading a series of international projects including
        ‘Taking Liberties’, his Leverhulme-funded project at Western Cape. HANLEY is
        collaborating with the Institute for Advanced Study at Waseda on the project ‘Japanese
        Cultural Nationalism’. We retained a formal link with Toronto, which has facilitated a
        number of staff collaborations and student exchanges during the census period. In our
        relationship with Lausanne, the UoA continues to generate new research collaborations
        including joint symposia in our strategic clusters.
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



b. Contribution to the Discipline within the REF Period

In the REF census period, the UoA has contributed significantly to leading, sustaining and
shaping the future of the disciplines of EL and CW:
     First, staff hold 21 leading editorial positions at international journals and literary
        reviews such as the New Yorker and Literature and Theology. They act as general
        editors for international book series including Transformations, Literature, Science and
        Medicine and New Directions in Religion and Literature. Staff serve on the editorial or
        advisory boards of 36 international journals including Journal of Commonwealth
        Literature and Romanticism. In addition, staff have reviewed for more than 113 journals
        and refereed for at least 73 presses including Cambridge; Northwestern; Notre Dame;
        and Oxford.
     To further contribute to EL and CW, UoA staff have organised 35 major international
        conferences and symposia at Lancaster such as Writing for Liberty (2015); Mobile
        Utopia (2017); and Representing Pain (2018), as well as 18 conferences at institutions
        such as Buenos Aires, Tokyo and Vancouver. In the REF census period, UoA staff
        have given in excess of 153 keynote, plenary or invited lectures in the UK and globally
        at institutions including Cambridge; Collège de France; Geneva; Notre Dame; Oxford;
        Paris-Sorbonne; Texas at Austin; and Toronto.
     In other service, staff have had 13 visiting positions at institutions including Baylor
        (TATE); Toronto (KNIGHT); and the Australian National University, the Chemical
        Heritage Foundation and Oxford (RUSTON).They hold 18 leading positions in subject
        associations and learned societies including Fellow of the Royal Society for Literature
        (ASHWORTH, FARLEY, MULDOON); Fellow of the British Academy (EAGLETON);
        Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (MULDOON); and Fellow of the
        English Association (BAINBRIDGE and RUSTON). In addition, they serve as members
        of research councils and as peer reviewers on expert committees including the AHRC
        Peer Review College (BUSHELL, RUSTON, PEARCE); Arts Council England
        (ASHWORTH); and the Australian Research Council (KNIGHT).
     Finally, our staff attract significant esteem from their peers in the form of academic and
        literary awards. In the census period, they won 11 awards including the Queen's Gold
        Medal for Poetry (MULDOON); the Seamus Heaney Award for Arts & Letters
        (MULDOON); the Andrea Badenoch Ward (CORBETT); the International Short Story
        Competition prize (MORT) and the Allan Lloyd Smith Memorial Prize (SPOONER); as
        well as being short-listed for the T.S. Eliot Prize and the Costa Poetry Award, both in
        2019 (FARLEY).

c. Contribution to Economy and Society

In line with both the University’s 2020 Research Strategy and its own REF 2021 Research &
Impact Strategy (see 1.b above), the UoA seeks to enhance research impact by working with
non-HEI institutions at a local, regional, national and international level. To add to the work of
our 4 ICSs, we have fulfilled our strategy in the following ways:
      Local and regional contribution. WASSON and RUSTON’s AHRC-funded research
        network, ‘Translating Chronic Pain’, works with leading regional pain charities –
        including Fibromyalgia Action UK, Endometriosis UK, Lyme Disease Action, and
        Ehlers-Danlos UK – towards the goal of shaping future NHS policy on chronic pain.
        Feedback from a workshop in Manchester included: ‘absolutely useful’; ‘Comforting’;
        ‘Reduces isolation’; and ‘A positive step forward in pain management’. HAYER
        collaborated with Heysham Power Station on ‘Keeping the Lights On’, a creative project
        on the future of energy production in the North West. This project was run by Ragged
        Edge Productions (funded by the Sir John Fisher Foundation and Arts Council England)
        and enabled HAYER to visit energy production facilities and write a play on tidal power
        entitled Tidelands. In pursuit of local and regional impact activities, staff have given
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        public talks in venues such as the Dukes Theatre, Newcastle Lit and Phil and North
        Lancashire Business Expo.
     National and international contribution. In addition, the UoA’s national and
        international impact is evidenced by BUSHELL’s Litcraft project which involves
        educational partnerships with schools across five library regions (Lancashire; Leeds;
        Surrey; Devon, Somerset); a commercial partnership with Wandering Wizards
        (Gulliver’s Travels is now available for purchase from the Minecraft Marketplace); and a
        partnership with Minecraft.edu which hosts all world-builds freely for international use
        and converts them to Education Edition. To explore the therapeutic value of literature
        for people with chronic pain, WASSON and RUSTON’s AHRC network ‘Translating
        Chronic Pain’ established an online anthology of ‘flash’ fiction which includes work from
        the USA, Canada, India and Japan and has attracted feedback from diverse user
        communities including a specialist children’s nurse in Brisbane who emailed the PI to
        discuss her own practice. LAMBERT was CI on an AHRC-funded project (£117,558)
        which developed an app to help Malaysian weavers establish themselves as
        independent entrepreneurs. By interviewing the weavers and writing their individual
        stories, LAMBERT helped to create promotional materials for them to use in their
        businesses. In support of their impact activities, staff have given more than 200 public
        lectures and readings at venues including the British Film Institute; British Library;
        National Gallery; National Theatre; Princeton Poetry Festival; Royal Festival Hall; Royal
        Institution of Great Britain; Royal Society; Shakespeare’s Globe Theatre; Science
        Museum; South Bank Centre; United Nations Human Rights Council, Switzerland;
        Victoria and Albert Museum; Wellcome Trust; Wellington College Arts Festival,
        Shanghai; and the Wordsworth Trust. Finally, MULDOON, FARLEY, BAINBRIDGE,
        BUSHELL, FARLEY, FINDLAY, HINDS, RUSTON and SPOONER have regularly
        appeared in national and international media including BBC1’s BBC Breakfast and One
        Show, Radio 3, Radio 4, the Guardian, Times, Financial Times, New Yorker and
        Atlantic: FARLEY presents many Radio 3 documentaries as well as his own regular
        programme The Echo Chamber, CORBETT and GREANEY have written articles for
        The Conversation (91,691 and 90,404 reads respectively) whilst MULDOON
        participated in a dialogue with P.J. Harvey as part of the Arts Council England-funded
        Lancaster Words literary festival (£3,800 funding, approximately 300 attendees, 29,000
        views on YouTube) (2017).
In order to further extend engagement, the UoA benefits from organisational policies and
structures in place at Departmental, Faculty and University level. The Department’s
Engagement Officer (EO), as well as the RIC, maintains an overview of engagement and
encourages staff to embed engagement activities into their research. The EO sits on the
Faculty Engagement Committee, which brings together academics and other key stakeholders
to develop a strategic approach to engagement and impact. Finally, the University has
subscribed to the Concordat for Engaging the Public with Research, a set of principles
fostering public engagement, and has a dedicated Communications and Marketing
Department, which offers support for engagement. In 2018, Lancaster appointed Professor
Dame Sue Black as Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Engagement and she is also our institutional lead
on the KEF and the Civic University Agreement.
