Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Kent

 Unit of Assessment: 29: Classics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Department of Classical and Archaeological Studies (CLAS) at the University of Kent was
 part of the School of European Culture and Languages (SECL) in the Faculty of Humanities until
 2020, when, as part of the University restructure, it became part of the new Division of Arts and
 Humanities. That Division includes cognate subjects such as History, Architecture, and
 Comparative Literature. CLAS takes a broad approach to the study of the Classical World across
 the disciplines of Ancient History, Archaeology, Classics, Heritage, and Byzantine Studies, with
 Research Centres in Late Antique Archaeology, and Heritage, and postgraduate centres in Athens
 and Rome. Interdisciplinarity, diversity, and inclusivity are among the key strengths of CLAS. Since
 REF2014, CLAS has hosted major international conferences in both Classics and Archaeology
 informed by these strengths (Classical Association Conference 2017 with the Open University;
 Theoretical Roman Archaeology Conference 2019). Staff numbers are up since 2014 (15 FTE
 compared to 13 in REF2014), and PhD completions and research income have both significantly
 increased (income by 73%, PhDs by 500%). Prestigious major awards have also been won by
 both senior and junior staff, including ECRs.

 Research Strategy 2014-20

 In this REF period, a key objective has been to establish Kent as a leading department for the
 interdisciplinary study of antiquity, at the forefront of research in the core areas of our research
 centres and research clusters (Heritage, Late Antique Archaeology, sensory studies, artefacts,
 and Egypt). CLAS has also focused particularly on enhancing postgraduate researcher support
 and success. These objectives have been achieved by:

 1) Optimising staff research quality and performance:

    •   High-quality research outputs have been fostered through a focus on the production of
        monographs with prestigious scholarly publishers: 12 of our 15 staff (80%) have a
        monograph for REF2021. Publishers include Brill and multiple university presses.
        Publication was supported through substantial internal funding (see Section 3).
    •   Grant application support, including workshops, internal incentivisation funding (4 awards
        in the current REF period), and internal peer review has achieved an increase in
        applications for research funding (with the same levels of staff, an average of 6.5 per
        annum in 2014-15, increasing to an average of 8.3 per annum in 2016-18). This has
        resulted in six major awards from prestigious funding bodies: AHRC (Labadi, Swift, Vis);
        British Academy (Rudolph); and Marie Sklodowska-Curie (Pollman, Lavan).
    •   Staff have been further supported through annual Individual Research Planning (IRP)
        meetings, appraisals, use of a transparent Work Allocation Model (WAM), and ECR
        development workshops, leading to 7 promotions since REF2014 (see Section 2). The
        School obtained an Athena SWAN Bronze award in 2019, reflecting its support for staff
        development and inclusivity.

 2) Enhancing PhD student success and researcher development:

    •   CLAS has implemented a dedicated programme of internal research training events,
        including workshops/masterclasses by visiting academics. It has facilitated student-led
        conferences and events through funding and mentoring, and encouraged the uptake of
        opportunities led by the Graduate and Researcher College (see REF5a). This researcher
        development strategy has both enhanced the employability and research careers of our
        students (see Section 2ii), and led to a 500% increase in PhD completions since the last
        REF period.


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Our strategic focus on grant capture has resulted in the award of multiple funded PhD
        scholarships to support and enhance student performance (since REF2014, 25 students
        have been supported, see Section 2). Major funders have included the AHRC/English
        Heritage, AHRC/British Museum, CHASE (Consortium for the Humanities and Arts South
        East England), and Eastern ARC (Academic Research Consortium). Our 2 AHRC
        Collaborative Doctoral Awards in particular exploit the untapped potential of major but
        understudied artefacts collections.
    •   Our postgraduate centres in Athens and Rome have participated in our departmental
        strategy to develop our postgraduate researchers; for instance, through annual events to
        showcase Kent’s postgraduates, including PhD student presentations in Rome, receptions
        at the British Embassy in February 2018, April 2019, and April 2020 (215 attendees), and
        a Heritage conference in Athens. Our MA programmes have also provided a pathway to
        further PhD study at Kent and elsewhere (7 former Kent MA students started a PhD in the
        current REF period). A PG forum on Heritage Studies has also been established.

 3) Developing our research clusters and centres:

 CLAS has two formally established research centres and three more informal research clusters
 based on internal CLAS research synergies:

    •   Our established research centres, the Centre for Heritage, and the Centre for Late Antique
        Archaeology, have prioritised strategic goals of building links beyond CLAS, setting new
        directions in research nationally and internationally, and fostering external collaborations
        through grant-funded projects (see below). The Centre for Late Antique Archaeology
        organised an interdisciplinary workshop with the University of Reading and the Kent Centre
        for Medieval and Early Modern Studies (‘Writing and Material Culture’, 2017), and has
        hosted five international conferences since 2014, published in the ongoing Late Antique
        Archaeology monograph series funded by Brill, including ‘Visualisation of the Late Antique
        City’ (2014) and ‘Imperial Archaeologies’ (2019). The Centre for Heritage has substantially
        expanded its activities to become a cross-Divisional centre from 2018, including
        establishing a new MA in International Heritage and Law (from 2017, with Kent Law
        School). Its members are leading heritage policy internationally. It has run four conferences
        since 2014, including ‘New Approaches to Heritage Ethics’ (2014) and ‘Cultural Heritage
        in Danger’ (2017). Centre Co-Director Labadi won a prestigious AHRC Research
        Leadership Fellowship in 2018.
    •   Following some significant staffing changes (see Section 2), our current research clusters
        were reviewed in 2017. The research cluster ‘City and Landscape’ was incorporated within
        the wider cross-institutional Centre, the Kent Interdisciplinary Centre for Spatial Studies
        (Co-Director: Boutsikas, 2018-20). The research cluster ‘Artefacts and Society’ continues,
        but with a greater emphasis on interdisciplinarity. Two new clusters have been developed
        with a remit to build on the unique interdisciplinary strengths of CLAS (Health, Wellbeing,
        and the Senses; Ancient History and Archaeology of Egypt). Clusters meet at least once
        per term and organise workshops and other events; see Section 4 for examples.

 4) Fostering Formal External Collaborations with HEIs and other organisations that are shaping
 our disciplines:

    •   External collaborations have been a particular focus of departmental grant-capture
        strategy, and have been established through successful projects with: Universidade
        Federal de Sergipe, Brazil (Rudolph: BA Newton Mobility grant); Collège de France
        (Lavan: Marie Sklodowska-Curie fellowship); English Heritage and the British Museum
        (Swift: AHRC PhD scholarships); the Petrie Museum of Egyptian Archaeology, UCL and
        Manchester Metropolitan University (Swift: AHRC grant – see Section 4 for some
        outcomes); and the African World Heritage Fund (Labadi: AHRC grant). In a further
        example with multiple partners (5), Pollmann obtained a Marie Sklodowska-Curie grant led
        by Aarhus University, Denmark. As a member of the AHRC-funded CHASE Doctoral

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Training Partnership, CLAS has built on relationships with partners such as the Open
        University through joint hosting of a major conference (Classical Association Conference
        2017) and a training event (2018). It has also colloborated on CHASE-funded PhD
        studentships (see Section 2).
    •   Invited visits by international researchers have facilitated CLAS’ research strategy goal of
        external collaborations. For example, visits in 2015 by Aldo Dinucci and Rodrigo Brito (both
        Universidade Federal de Sergipe, Brazil) led to Rudolph's BA/Newton project ‘The Logic
        and Perception of Persuasion in Stoicism’ (2017-19).
    •   CLAS’ impact strategy (see below) centres around external collaborations with museum
        and heritage organisations both nationally and internationally; for instance, Canterbury for
        Culture, Folkestone Fringe/Urban Room, Canterbury Museums, Petrie Museum of
        Egyptian Archaeology, Greek Ministry of Culture, European Cultural Foundation, Europa
        Nostra, UNESCO, and others, these serving to enhance public experience and to
        contribute to policy development.
    •   As part of its wider Digital Humanities strategy, Vis was appointed in 2014 as Eastern ARC
        Digital Humanities Research Fellow. Eastern ARC is a collaboration between the
        Universities of Kent, Essex, and East Anglia, and Vis's remit included fostering research
        collaborations externally. During the REF period, he worked on multiple collaborative
        events, including ‘Advancing the Acquisition and Use of Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Data on
        Architectural Heritage’ (with University of Ghent) and ‘Managing Change – Urban Heritage
        Between Conservation and Development’, funded by Eastern ARC. He was also PI on the
        AHRC research network ‘Pre-Columbian Urban Tropical Life’ (12 members from six
        countries).
    •   Multiple staff have participated in funded International Research Networks, including Alwis,
        Burden-Strevens, Labadi, Laurence, Pollmann, Swift, and Wibier.

 Research Strategy 2021-26

 Looking to the future, our principal goals, in line with the University Research and Innovation
 Strategy to 2025, are to further enhance the national and international profile of CLAS, advance
 our disciplines in our centre and cluster core areas, foster interdisciplinary research, and ensure
 the ongoing vitality and sustainability of our research environment and the discipline more widely
 (the latter through a particular focus on ECRs, and our postgraduate community).

    •   Our research centres and clusters will engage productively with the new University
        Signature Research Themes. Topics that relate to our staff research specialisms are
        included within the themes (for example, environment; and migration and movement), and
        this cross-University initiative will thus foster new collaborations and interdisciplinary
        research. The networks that are developed will contribute to external research agendas,
        and further showcase the interdisciplinary strengths of CLAS (see Section 4 for some
        current examples of our interdisciplinary research).
    •   We will sustain and develop our national and international collaborations through a
        continuing focus on collaborative grant applications and research networks, led by our
        research centres and clusters. Building on the support provided for grant applications in
        the current REF period, we aim to substantially increase grant income over the next REF
        period.
    •   With a number of recently appointed staff at lecturer level, staff development is a priority
        for the future, especially for our early career researchers, and we will work to encourage
        this, facilitated by the University's new Academic Career Map, which sets out performance
        standards and promotion criteria at different levels.
    •   Attracting high-quality PhD students through successful outreach (e.g. at recruitment
        events and conferences, and via staff networks), and funded scholarships, and supporting
        their development as researchers, will be a priority, with additional support from the
        University Graduate and Researcher College. This will ensure the ongoing sustainability
        of our research environment.



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        •   We will work to implement SECL Athena SWAN Bronze goals relating to postgraduates
            and wider research culture within CLAS, enhancing sustainability and inclusivity.

 Impact Strategy

 CLAS' impact strategy is focused on two principal aims: (1) shaping professional practice and
 public policy in archaeology and heritage management globally, especially training of heritage
 professionals worldwide and policy work for UNESCO; (2) working with schools and museums to
 increase public understanding of antiquity via digital technology, social media, and innovative
 schools/museums outreach events. We are well placed to build on our already strong international
 impact profile (2nd in the UK for Classics UoA in REF2014), with a significant contribution to
 international bodies such as UNESCO (see Section 4, and our impact case studies). CLAS'
 strategy for impact engages with that of the University for Public Engagement with Research,
 which has developed, in part, from what CLAS achieved in the development of the Centre for
 Heritage (from 2012).

 Key to our impact strategy to 2020 has been a greater emphasis on national and international
 impacts, in addition to our work in the region. Kent staff have established networks with national
 and international bodies such as the Greek Ministry of Culture, the World Bank, and UNESCO,
 and are using these networks to develop further links with governmental heritage departments
 globally (e.g. Iran, Malawi). We are a leading department in the UK with regard to heritage impact,
 and have fostered the development and implementation of policies and procedures associated
 with the preservation, presentation, and management of heritage sites worldwide (see our two
 impact case studies for full details). Work with schools and museums regionally and nationally is
 also an important component of our impact work, and has been funded through internal and
 external awards. It has included script-writing competitions, social media, workshops, consultation
 and training events, and an AHRC-funded exhibition at the UCL Petrie Museum, 'Sounds of
 Roman Egypt' (see Section 4).

 Looking ahead, future priorities for impact development will include: (1) developing additional
 partnerships with heritage organisations to implement policy and foster best practice; and (2)
 disseminating research to communities that are often overlooked, in line with our widening
 participations work with schools.

 Open Access and Research Integrity

 We judge OA publication to be important to impact and public engagement work, particularly in
 reporting project outcomes to communities involved in the co-production of research (for this
 purpose, Kyriakidis’ output 18809 is published as gold OA). OA publishing and research
 dissemination is also more widely encouraged in CLAS, supported by Kent's Office for Scholarly
 Communication, and we aim to extend this to providing OA data via platforms such as the
 Archaeology Data Service and the Kent Data Repository. Increasing numbers of staff have
 published Gold OA in the current REF period, in some cases supported by the University's OA
 fund. In the current REF period, Kyriakidis, La’da, Vis, and Wibier have published gold OA. This
 includes two monographs (outputs 18809 and 15603). Research integrity is currently fostered
 through staff membership of relevant organisations; for example, our principal fieldwork
 researchers in CLAS (Lavan, Willis) are accredited professionals of the Chartered Institute for
 Archaeologists, which sets ethical and professional standards for field archaeology. We will
 develop this through active future participation in the Division's Central Research Ethics Advisory
 Group.

 2. People

   i.       Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 CLAS staff numbers have remained stable. Where staff have retired or taken up posts elsewhere,
 replacement posts have strengthened the areas of Classical Literature and Ancient History (Wyles

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2014, Burden-Strevens 2017, Nifosi 2018 [start of permanent contract], Wibier 2018), ensuring a
 balance across the disciplinary areas covered in CLAS. In addition, three fixed-term research
 appointments have further enhanced our research profile in the areas of digital humanities,
 artefact research, and heritage (Vis 2014-19, Eastern ARC Fellow in Digital Humanities; Stoner
 2017-19, Post-Doctoral Research Associate on Swift AHRC grant; Giliberto 2019, Post-Doctoral
 Research Associate on Labadi AHRC grant).

 A Promotions Panel was established in 2013 to support and advise on promotion applications.
 Probationers are supported by Probationary Supervisors, in an annual review process, and
 Mentors (both appointed at departmental level). There have been seven promotions and seven
 probation completions during the current REF period – with regard to promotion, Labadi to Senior
 Lecturer (2015), then Professor (2019); Swift to Reader (2016), then Professor (2019); Boutsikas,
 Rudolph, and Lowe to Senior Lecturer (2020; 2018). We can thus demonstrate successful career
 progression at all career stages. In the current REF period, two staff (both female; one BAME)
 have been promoted by more than one stage (none achieved this in the REF2014 period),
 demonstrating enhanced support, and as an outcome of a stronger focus overall on research in
 CLAS since 2014. Although two professors have left during the current REF period, we are able
 to demonstrate the sustainability of CLAS through two internal promotions to the same level.

 Succession planning is supported through: (1) promotion mentoring to ensure progression to more
 senior roles; (2) participation by staff in leadership training (four in the current REF period; see
 ‘Equality’ section below); and (3) encouragement of staff to gain experience of key roles on an
 interim basis while post-holders are on leave, before progressing to full responsibility. The success
 of this approach is evident in the case of Alwis, who shadowed Head of CLAS Baker in December
 2017, and initially covered this role for Baker’s research leave January-April 2018, then continuing
 as Head of Department until December 2018.

 Support for Research

 Beyond University structures for staff development and career progression that include criteria
 relating to research performance (e.g. promotion procedures and Academic Career Map), at least
 13 category A staff (87%) have been awarded internal grants since 2014. These include grants
 enabling attendance at conferences to support research development and networking (see
 Section 3). CLAS continues to implement the UK Researcher Development Concordat, through
 recruitment and appraisal procedures, commitment to EDI, and encouraging uptake of training
 and development opportunities.

 In particular, ECRs producing high-quality research have been strategically supported to achieve
 publication of their PhDs in peer-reviewed monograph series edited by senior Kent staff (e.g. Nifosi
 in Baker’s edited series ‘Medicine and the Body in Antiquity’; Stoner [PDRA] in Lavan’s edited Late
 Antique Archaeology Supplementary Series).

 Staff are also supported to develop grant applications, with a regular programme of workshops
 hosted by Research and Innovation Services (eight staff have attended at least one in the current
 REF period) and a dedicated member of staff in Research and Innovation Services who advises
 staff. The application process includes expert advice and guidance through internal peer review.
 Staff may also apply for incentivisation funding beyond the Department to prepare major grant
 applications (four staff were awarded this in the current REF period: Pollmann 2015 and 2016; Vis
 2016; Swift 2017). The success of such processes is demonstrated by the fact that external
 application rates have increased, and that grant income has increased 73% in the REF2021
 period.

 The University research leave cycle (one term after 72 weeks’ service) has been actively
 implemented in CLAS to best support staff research plans. Staff research is also supported by a
 number of other University policies, including timetabling constraints that facilitate one research
 day per week free of teaching, other flexible working arrangements (Flexible Working Policy;
 Disability Policy; Policy on Family Friendly Practices; see REF5a).

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research management aims to foster impact work. The annual Individual Research Plan includes
 both impact and public engagement, and implementation is monitored by the Director of Research.
 CLAS staff are encoraged particularly to collaborate with third sector organisations appropriate to
 our disciplines (see examples in Section 4). CLAS staff have utilised funding at School and
 University level to facilitate public outreach and impact activities. Annual University Research
 Prizes (since 2015) recognise particular staff achievement; CLAS staff member Bosworth
 (Archaeology Technician) won the Technical Support Prize in 2018. He has contributed to multiple
 staff and postgraduate research projects (e.g. artefacts replicas for Swift’s AHRC project; Bates’
 PhD thesis; and co-author on Laurence et al. 2017). Such projects have enabled ongoing
 development of expertise; for instance, in 3D laser scanning, used subsequently in museum
 projects around the UK (see Section 4).

 Equality, Diversity, and Inclusivity

 CLAS has a strong commitment to equality and diversity, reflected in the 2019 recognition of the
 wider School through an Athena SWAN Bronze Award. CLAS is balanced in gender, with eight
 female and seven male permanent academic staff, of varied social background, nationality, and
 ethnicity. Within the REF period, four female members of staff (one BAME) have held the position
 of Head of CLAS, and two are trained appraisers at School/Division level. There are very few
 BAME professors across UK academia; Labadi is one of them since her 2019 promotion. The
 current CLAS Director of Research and REF Coordinator is female, and CLAS’ overall profile
 ensures balance in future appointments to the role. Four female members of CLAS have
 participated in internal and external leadership training programmes in the current REF period.
 The wider School Equality and Diversity representative (Baker from 2019) is also a CLAS member.
 The School’s Athena SWAN Bronze application identified that the number of women on
 postgraduate degree programmes at Kent was above the national CLAS benchmark. Commitment
 to EDI is also reflected in our public engagement and impact projects; e.g. a project in Crete by
 Kyriakidis to include women in village decision-making (Kyriakidis and Anagnostoupolis 2018) and
 Rudolph’s project with the Royal National Institute of Blind People (Culture Link SE/Sensing
 Culture) at Canterbury Museum to enhance museum accessibility.

 All staff in the School have undertaken internal Kent EDI training (2014, ‘Valuing Everyone’), and
 members of the UoA Working Group responsible for the selection of REF outputs have undertaken
 external training. CLAS has implemented a transparent, evidence-based REF process, following
 the University Code of Practice. An assessment of output selection compared to overall staff profile
 showed that the number of outputs is evenly split between male and female staff, and 13% of
 outputs are by BAME staff (2 colleagues), closely reflecting CLAS overall staff make-up.

 There is generous provision of study leave for all category A staff (see REF5a). A policy of
 substantive fixed-term appointments for parental leave cover met the University’s wider anti-
 casualisation agenda. The School encouraged the use of Keeping in Touch (KIT) days during
 parental leave (three CLAS staff members have made full use of these KIT days since 2014). The
 Head of Department meets with those returning from parental leave to facilitate reintegration. As
 part of the Athena SWAN Bronze Action Plan, from 2019, the returning staff member is supported
 through timetabling adjustments, and where additional entitlement has been accrued, an
 application for one term’s study leave is supported immediately upon return to work, to facilitate
 re-engagement with research (actioned in 2018-19 for a CLAS staff member).

 Inclusivity is fostered in the appraisal process by each staff member selecting an appraiser from
 a balanced list that includes female and male colleagues at a range of seniority levels. The School
 Promotions Panel (from 2013-20; comprising professors and others in key School roles), which
 advised and supported staff in their career progression, included a minimum of two women, and,
 from 2019, the School’s Athena SWAN lead. The SPP also wrote a report on its support for staff
 in the promotions process, including a breakdown by gender and level. It reviewed all staff and
 offered mentoring to staff who either had not submitted an application, or not been promoted, in
 the last five years.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School appraisal process, and postgraduate supervision meetings, also provided fora for
 confidential discussion of wellbeing issues and career progression. Attendees were referred
 onwards to professional services as appropriate. The University’s professional Counselling
 Service and Occupational Health Team are available to both staff and students (including research
 students) (see REF5a).

 Since 2019, CLAS has actively contributed towards the implementation of the School’s Athena
 SWAN Bronze Action Points, including:

        •   Monitoring numbers of female applications for posts;
        •   Actively encouraging promotion applications where appropriate;
        •   Increasing the number of female appraisers to 50/50;
        •   Ensuring 50% female speakers are invited for research seminars.

 Our research events take a variety of formats/timings to maximise attendance by staff and
 postgraduates, and faciliate participation by those with caring responsibilities. Postdoctoral and
 postgraduate researchers are strongly encouraged to attend, and to present their research (e.g.
 Archaeology Day 2018: Bates, Vis, Walsh; Classics Day 2019: Chavarria, Goodwin, Fricke,
 Frigerio, visiting PDRF Nissin, Smither, Stoner). Within the REF period, the percentage of external
 female speakers invited by CLAS has improved from 29% in 2014-15 to 57% in 2016-17. From
 2019 there has also been action to invite more BAME colleagues as external speakers. EDI was
 a strong theme of the recent Kent-organised TRAC conference (2019), with a strategic decision
 to invite a BAME keynote speaker who spoke on ‘Decolonising Roman Archaeology’ and
 workshops/sessions on ‘Multivocal Narratives of Roman Archaeology’ (co-led by Kent PhD
 student/conference co-organiser), and ‘Diversifying Reading Lists’.

  ii.       Research Students

 The University provides a rich and stimulating environment in which research students are not
 only beneficiaries but also key contributors. There is a flourishing research environment in CLAS,
 with 20 PhD students registered at the end of July 2020, including those recruited as a follow-on
 from their MA studies at Kent. Students follow well-established University-level supervision and
 monitoring procedures including monthly supervision and regular reviews of progress. CLAS’
 successful supervision and continual monitoring process is demonstrated in the 24 (internal data)
 completions in the current REF period.

 Support for Research Students

 All postgraduates have access to designated study space and facilities, career development
 opportunities, and support to attend research events through our Graduate and Researcher
 College (see REF5a). Each research student was allocated £500 towards research expenses over
 the degree programme, plus up to £150 per annum from the School to present a conference paper.
 Exceptional research expenses (such as specialised training, and travel to non-UK archives or to
 present at non-UK conferences) were provided from the PhD Support Top-Up Fund. In addition to
 teaching opportunities available to postgraduates, annually throughout the REF period, the School
 provided up to seven fully-funded fees and maintenance doctoral studentships (at research council
 rates). These included four hours’ teaching per week as associate lecturers, working alongside an
 experienced module convenor. Eleven CLAS students have held these Graduate Teaching
 Assistant (GTA) positions in the current REF period, and a number of students have completed
 the Associate Teacher Accreditation Programme (ATAP) qualification, to which all students have
 access (now the Associate Fellowship Scheme).

 In the current REF period, 25 CLAS PGRs were supported by grant-awarding bodies, private
 philanthropic donations, or the University (mostly GTAs), enabling the recruitment of excellent
 postgraduate researchers. Funders have included CHASE, Eastern ARC, AHRC/English



                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Heritage, AHRC/British Museum, Fonds Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek Vlaanderen, Studienstifung
 des deutschen Volkes, and Templeton Foundation.

 Evidencing our excellent supervision and researcher developer support, 11 students were
 awarded grants and prizes during their postgraduate study at Kent, including grants from CHASE
 and Eastern ARC, University prizes, and two awards from the Kent Archaeological Society.

 Research Events for Postgraduates

 CLAS runs a well-attended research seminar and lecture series during term time (c. four per term),
 and there are regular additional events; for instance, those organised by CLAS and Divisional
 research centres and clusters (see Sections 1 and 4). These showcase inspirational scholarship,
 provide a forum for discussion of ongoing research, expose our students to a broad range of
 scholarly traditions and sub-disciplines, and provide opportunities for ECRs and PGRs to gain
 experience in presenting their research.

 As part of its overall research strategy, CLAS has implemented a schedule of training and
 guidance events for PGRs. Topics led by staff and postgraduates include digital humanities,
 epigraphy, 3D scanning, postgraduate employability, and researching artefacts in museums.
 There has also been a particular focus in the current REF period on graduate workshops across
 a wide range of scholarly expertise delivered by international scholars (2014, from Munich; 2015,
 Arizona State, Leiden, MIT; 2017, CNRS Paris, Maynooth; 2018, Berkeley).

 PGRs have also been supported in organising events, from informal seminars to major
 conferences (e.g. the Theoretical Roman Archaeology Conference 2019, organised by three
 PGRs and two ECRs; and the Iron Age Research Students Annual Conference 2018, organised
 by PGR Holtham-Oakley. Students have presented their work at conferences at Kent and beyond
 (e.g. ‘Visualising the Late Antique City’ at the Society of Antiquaries in 2014, with five PhD student
 presentations, and the Classical Association Conference 2017 at Kent, with four PhD student
 presentations). CLAS has also supported PhD graduates by encouraging applications for honorary
 research fellow status at Kent (four fellows). International visiting PhD students have been
 registered at Kent as Visiting Training Fellows to benefit from Kent research expertise, contributing
 to successful PhD completions (Borgers at VUB, Van Thienen at Ghent). The University also
 participates in wider University Consortia (CHASE and Eastern ARC) to deliver postgraduate
 research funding and training (see REF5a, and Section 1 above for work by Vis as Eastern ARC
 Post-Doctoral Research Fellow 2014-19).

 Our research students also benefit from access to a range of international opportunities, which
 include joint supervision with partner institutions, Erasmus exchanges, and attending research
 events at our European sites (in Athens, Brussels, Paris, and Rome). Kent has joint supervisory
 arrangements with a range of institutions in Europe and further afield (e.g. in the current REF
 period, Vanhoutte, a co-tutelle student with VU University, Brussels, who completed in 2019).

 In the current REF period, this thriving, inclusive research environment and support for our
 postgraduate students has contributed to their career development and subsequent academic
 appointments. Four Kent PhD graduates have gained temporary or permanent university teaching
 posts since graduation (Brandt, Ingate, Nifosi, Walsh), two have gained employment as a PDRA
 (Stoner, Borgers), and three have secured posts in heritage research (Murphy, Martens,
 Vanhoutte).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 In line with our research strategy, we have focused on collaborative grants that have enabled us
 to build formal relationships with external organisations (see Section 1). Since 2014, total HESA
 grant income from external funding organisations is £679,303 (over £1 million headline value).
 This consistutes a 73% increase from the last REF period. Grants have been gained by staff at
 both junior (Vis, Rudolph) and senior level (Labadi, Swift). Major grants as PI include an AHRC

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Leadership Fellowship (Labadi, £247,947; 2018), an AHRC project grant focused on the collection
 of the Petrie Museum, UCL (Swift, £272,640; 2017), and a British Academy Newton Fund mobility
 grant (Rudolph £74,000; 2018). In line with our research strategy, all grants have strong impact
 and public engagement angles, which are detailed in Section 4. International network grants
 include: ‘The History of Human Freedom and Dignity in Western Civilization’ (Pollmann with
 international co-investigators, Marie Sklodowska-Curie, £466,184; 2016-19); and ‘Pre-Columbian
 Tropical Urban Life’ (Vis, AHRC, £36,210; 2016) (All figures indicate the award value to Kent).
 Smaller grants have also been obtained from charitable organisations such as the Haverfield
 Trust, the Roman Society, the Roman Research Trust, the University of London School of
 Advanced Study, the Fritz Thyssen Foundation (Cologne, Germany), and the Royal
 Archaeological Institute.

 CLAS has also actively sought income in the form of philanthropic donations, achieving a total of
 £304,206 in the REF2021 period (Kyriakidis and Lavan, from Paul Dyer, John Beale, A. G.
 Leventis Foundation, and others). The donations enabled fieldwork projects, including excavations
 at Ostia, as well as supporting five PhD student bursaries.

 Internal funding is available to support staff at Divisional (formerly School/Faculty) and University
 level, including funded study leave (see REF5a), for which all CLAS staff are encouraged to apply.
 In the REF2021 period, c. £135,000 has been successfully gained by staff in CLAS (including staff
 at all career levels, and in line with CLAS’ gender balance), more than tripling the amount of
 internal income for the REF2014 period. In line with our research and impact strategies, University-
 level funding has supported interdisciplinary work, visiting scholars, public engagement and
 impact work (see wider contribution section below), and the hosting of a major conference, the
 Classical Association Conference, at Kent in 2017. School-level funding, including the use of QR
 funds, supported conferences and workshops (e.g. ECR Burden-Strevens: conference on Roman
 political initiative; Lavan: two conferences in the Late Antique Archaeology series; visiting
 scholars, including PhD training events [see Section 2]), and publication of staff outputs.
 University-level funding has also supported public engagement (e.g. Laurence animation and
 schools competitions, publishing costs for four outputs, and impact projects [Labadi, Kyriakidis]).

 Library and archive-based resources are central to research infrastructure for CLAS, with the
 University's Templeman Library, newly refurbished, as the core resource (REF5a). Its new lecture
 theatre was the venue for the 2019 ‘Classics Day’, showcasing our research. At departmental
 level, an annual budget of £31k is split between book purchases (£13.3k), datasets (£4.2k),
 document delivery (£2.2k), and journals (£11.1k). Library resources in London are also within easy
 reach for staff and students, with university libraries facilitating borrowing through the SCONUL
 scheme. In the current REF period, 13 staff have used at least one of ten London research
 libraries.

 Equipment and facilities are important for archaeological research, especially fieldwork, but also
 artefact studies. CLAS has a dedicated Archaeology Laboratory, plus equipment, including
 magnetometry and resistivity equipment, two total stations (one with GPS accurate to 2cm), a
 high-quality 3D laser scanner for recording standing remains or artefacts, five ultra-portable 3D
 object scanners, and portable X-ray fluorescence analyser. The total purchase value of the
 equipment is over £1 million. It is managed and supported by a full-time archaeology technician
 (Bosworth), who is fully trained in its use. Equipment is bookable by any staff member, and used
 individually by trained staff. The archaeology technician also supports research student use of the
 equipment where appropriate (e.g. PhD students Bates and Smither). Bosworth also has expertise
 in, and access to, specialist software, e.g. for mapping and 3D modelling and photogrammetry
 (e.g. ARC GIS, QGIS, Autodesk, Geomagic). Over the current REF period, £14,500 was invested
 in servicing and maintaining the equipment, ensuring ongoing optimum utility.

 The use of CLAS equipment has been central to outputs and impact produced in the REF period;
 for instance, Willis’s output 13561, Swift’s outputs 15516 and 6903. (See Section 4 for further
 details of the use of the 3D scanner in public engagement work.) Staff also have access to
 University equipment and facilities held outside CLAS. Swift’s AHRC project made use of 3D

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 modelling expertise in CLAS, as well as 3D printers, craft equipment, and technical expertise in
 the Schools of Music and Fine Art, Computing, and Architecture. The resulting artefact replicas
 have been used for both research and impact (in the ‘Sounds of Roman Egypt’ exhibition, see
 Section 4). Willis’s excavation project has utilised SEM and XRF equipment in the School of
 Physical Sciences (Willis’s output 13561).

 Two Kent PhD students have also benefited from facilities and equipment held by English Heritage
 (Dover) and the British Museum (London), thanks to AHRC collaborative doctoral awards between
 Kent and these organisations. This includes photographic and analytical scientific equipment. We
 also had use of facilities and equipment at our two Centres for postgraduate study, in Athens and
 Rome, provided by the American University in Rome, Athens University of Economics and
 Business, and the American College of Greece. These included new seminar and computer
 rooms, and access for students to internationally recognised scholarly library collections, including
 the British School in Rome, and, in Athens, the American Institute of Classical Studies, the British,
 Swedish, and French Schools, and the German Archaeological Institute.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Formal Collaborations and Networks

 Since 2014, CLAS has achieved a step change in its engagement with external partners and
 collaborators. There has been a strategic focus on fostering formal external collaborations; for
 example, through grant applications. Building on informal networks and conference successes in
 the previous REF cycle, in the current cycle we have established significant UK, European, and
 worldwide formal collaborative grant-funded research projects, and participated in international
 research networks across Europe and the US. This strategy has succeeded in transforming our
 research environment for REF2021.

 In a key example of international collaboration, Rudolph was awarded a BA Newton mobility grant
 to work with the Universidade Federal de Sergipe, Brazil, on the project ‘The Logic and Perception
 of Persuasion in Stoicism’, with explicit training goals to empower ECRs and PGRs, and provide
 resources for them. Grant activities are currently in progress, with an international conference
 planned for Canterbury in 2021 (rescheduled due to COVID-19).

 Projects by Vis on pre-Columbian urbanism and Swift on artefacts from Egypt demonstrate the
 achievement of impact via third sector organisations, as well as our strategic goal to undertake
 research at the forefront of our disciplines. Vis was principal investigator for the interdisciplinary
 AHRC-funded research network ‘TruLife: Pre-Columbian Tropical Urban Life 2016-18’ (with co-
 investigator Christian Isendahl (Gothenburg). This brought together 25 participants from seven
 countries, and included participation beyond academia by the Prince’s Foundation, UK. Vis
 organised, led, and facilitated three international workshops (Canterbury, Leiden, Gothenburg) for
 ‘TruLife’. The network brought insights from long-term urban traditions to modern-day sustainable
 urban design, thus benefiting contemporary urban planners. Public outcomes included an urban
 design competition, Dust to Dust, and an exhibition at the Sainsbury Centre, which showcased
 urban development proposals inspired by ancient traditions. Scholarly outputs to date are a co-
 authored article in the Anthropocene Review 6 (2019).

 Swift was principal investigator for ‘Roman and Late Antique Artefacts from Egypt' (2017-19), a
 collaboration with Manchester Metropolitan University and the Petrie Museum of Egyptian
 Archaeology, UCL. In addition to research publications, this resulted in c. 700 updated entries to
 the Petrie Museum’s electronic catalogue, an exhibition – ‘Sounds of Roman Egypt’ – featuring
 artefact replicas and sound recordings (with an interface making these accessible for visually
 impaired visitors), and associated public workshops and events with substantial social benefit.
 Over 100 people attended the private view (21 January 2019), and the success of the exhibition
 led to an extended run until June 2019. Over 100 visitor questionnaires were completed; 62% of
 respondents said the exhibition had changed their view of Ancient Egypt. Twenty-nine responses
 to individual questions praised how the sensory aspect of the exhibition had brought the past to

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 life; e.g. ‘they seem more realistic as humans [rather] than just history’. The exhibition was cited
 on the Museum Association website as an example of new practice (2019). Inclusivity was fostered
 through exhibition leaflets in both English and Arabic. A schools short-story competition based on
 the project blog attracted >100 entries from Year 7-11 pupils (organised by Wyles).

 Staff have responded to international research initiatives and funder priorities through participation
 in networks such as the ‘Stories of Erotic Love and Desire in Late Antique and Early Medieval
 Hagiography’ network, University of Ghent, with 22 participants from 11 countries (Alwis); ‘Cassius
 Dio: between History and Politics’, Georgetown University, University of Alberta, Aalborg
 University, and University of Southern Denmark, with 25 participants from ten countries (Burden-
 Strevens), and ‘Silver, Status and Society’, National Museum of Scotland and Zentrum für
 Baltische und Skandinavische Archäologie, Schleswig, with 20 participants from six countries
 (Swift). An example of the contribution made by staff participation in networks is offered by the
 Cassius Dio network. The network has undertaken a radical re-evaluation of this neglected author
 and transformed scholarly perceptions of his work. This has been achieved through three
 publications so far (2016, 2018, 2019), with a fourth expected in 2020-21. All include contributions
 by Burden-Strevens, who also edited the 2018 volume (Cassius Dio’s Forgotten History of Early
 Rome).

 Supporting and Developing the Discipline

 A particular achievement for CLAS was bringing the 2017 Classical Association Conference to
 Kent, as the major annual conference in the UK for Classicists and related disciplines (>370
 delegates). Shaped by the interdisciplinary strengths of CLAS, and with many panels led by Kent
 staff (Alwis, Baker, Laurence, Lowe, Wyles), the conference incorporated a wide range of
 disciplines including ancient history, archaeology, architecture, Byzantine studies, classical
 literature, drama, education, heritage, and reception.

 Staff members have also participated in the organisation of multiple further conferences at the
 Canterbury campus. Most notable were the Theoretical Roman Archaeology Conference 2019,
 organised by ECRs and postgraduates (>150 delegates), which significantly raised awareness of
 diversity issues in Classics (see Section 2); the Internationales Sachsensymposion 2017,
 organised at Kent with CCU and Canterbury Archaeological Trust (>100 delegates; Swift on
 organising committee); and a series of international heritage conferences organised by the Centre
 for Heritage (Labadi, see Section 1). Laurence partnered in a Finnish Academy of Sciences project
 on Ostia Antica with the University of Tampere as lead partner, along with other Scandinavian
 partners, including major museums. This led to a Kent conference on Ostia, organised by
 Laurence, to exchange ideas and build networks, and an ECR from Finland gaining Finnish
 Cultural Foundation funding for a one-year visiting research fellowship at Kent (Nissin, 2019). In
 his role as Vice-President of Kent Archaeological Society, Willis has also hosted and co-organised
 17 research conferences and research-focused meetings related to the archaeology, history, and
 heritage of Kent, all except one taking place at the University.

 Staff have also organised/co-organised >10 conferences elsewhere in the current REF period,
 especially via our research clusters and centres (see Section 1). These include annual heritage
 conferences in Athens, led by Kent’s Athens Centre (Kyriakidis); regular Late Antique Archaeology
 conferences, and the ‘Ancient Theatre in the Black Sea’ conference at KCL in 2014 (Wyles). Staff
 have also organised sessions or panels at external conferences; for example, at the Association
 for Critical Heritage Studies conference, Montreal, 2016 (Labadi); International Byzantine
 Congress, Belgrade, 2016 (Alwis); European Association of Urban Historians Conference,
 Helsinki, 2016 (Laurence); and Royal Geographical Society Conference, London, 2014 (Vis). In
 addition to organising conferences and panels, staff have engaged with scholarly audiences by
 delivering papers at c. 80 conferences in the UK, Continental Europe, and the US, including
 keynote lectures in Amsterdam (Dutch Academy of Sciences 4th Annual Patristics Lecture,
 Pollmann 2014); Leuven (Roman Archaeology Conference of the Netherlands, Willis 2014); and
 Newcastle (‘Holiness on the Move: Travelling Saints in Byzantium’, Alwis 2019).


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff have further contributed to supporting and developing the wider discipline through
 membership of Research Council Peer Review Colleges (Laurence, Pollmann, Swift),
 contributions to Regional Archaeology Research Frameworks (East Midlands and North-East;
 Willis), participation in external academic appointment procedures (La'da, Laurence, Pollmann),
 and through external supervision or examination of PhD students at 17 universities, including HE
 institutions in the US, Australia, and Continental Europe. Staff have also participated as committee
 members and trustees of learned society committees, including the Roman Society (Laurence,
 Lowe), the Hellenic Society (Alwis), the Roman Research Trust (Swift), the Society for the
 Promotion of Byzantine Studies (Alwis), the Egypt Exploration Society (La’da), National
 Geographic (Boutsikas), and Thanet Trust for Archaeology (Willis), thereby contributing to future
 disciplinary priorities and agendas. For example, as trustee of Thanet Trust, Willis has been active
 in managing the transition of the charity to a wholly educational, community-focused organisation.

 Further indicators of the national and international recognition and influence of CLAS staff include
 visits by 15 international researchers in the current REF period (from the US, South America, and
 six countries in Europe), these also enhancing the research environment for postgraduate
 students (see Section 2).

 International recognition and influence is also shown through the following positions on editorial
 boards held by CLAS staff within the current REF period: Baker: Series Editor and founder,
 ‘Themes in Ancient Medicine and the Body’, Routledge; La’da: member of the Editorial Board of
 Acta Antiqua Academiae Scientiarum Hungaricae (Budapest); Kyriakidis: Editor, ‘Initiative for
 Heritage Conservation’ series; Lavan: board member, Journal of Late Antiquity, and Series Editor
 and founder, ‘Late Antique Archaeology’; Labadi: Co-editor, Heritage and Society; Laurence:
 member of the Editorial Board, Orbis Terrarum: The Journal of Ancient Historical Geography;
 Pollmann: Editorial/Advisory Boards of 11 journals/monograph series, including Zeitschrift für
 Antikes Christentum and the Brill series on Church History; Swift: Advisory Board for the ‘Social
 Worlds of Late Antiquity’ monograph series, Amsterdam University Press; and Willis: Editor,
 Journal of Roman Pottery Studies.

 Interdisciplinarity is a particular strength of CLAS, and an area for further development in our
 research strategy (see Section 1). The position of CLAS within a wider multi-subject School and
 Division has fostered interdisciplinary events such as the 2015 conference ‘The Fact-Value
 Distinction’, co-organised by Rudolph and a colleague in Philosophy (Radoilska). Staff have made
 a significant contribution to interdisciplinary research; for example, the ERC project ‘Rediscovering
 the Hidden Structure: A New Appreciation of Juristic Texts and Patterns of Thought in Late
 Antiquity’ (Wibier). A major network goal for the latter is to write a new history of Roman legal
 culture in Late Antiquity. This will be achieved through a book co-edited by Wibier (under contract
 with CUP), of value to legal scholars, classicist and ancient historians, and scholars of wider
 intellectual history.

 Staff outputs for REF2021 take a strongly interdisciplinary approach, including monographs by
 Swift (2017), applying theoretical perspectives from art/design and philosophy; and Vis (2018),
 with an approach to urbanism drawing on architecture, history, sociology, and geography. Rudolph
 and Baker, together with CHASE colleagues at the Open University, and PhD students, are
 engaged in collaborative research on the ancient senses from an interdisciplinary perspective,
 and lead the CLAS research cluster on Health, Wellbeing, and the Senses. Events have included
 a workshop in Roehampton in November 2015, and an interdisciplinary workshop, ‘Sensory
 Theory, Methodology and Experience’, in 2016, organised in collaboration with Kent’s School of
 Architecture. An interdisciplinary virtual workshop organised by La’da, Nifosi, and Wibier (Ancient
 History and Archaeology of Egypt research cluster; June 2020), ‘Cultural Exchanges in Ancient
 Egypt’ attracted 396 participants from 21 countries across the disciplines of papyrology, ancient
 history, archaeology, and classical literature. In 2015, Swift (co-leader of Artefacts and Society
 research cluster) organised a session on ‘Interdisciplinary Approaches to Roman Artefacts’ at the
 Theoretical Roman Archaeology Conference, Leicester. In his role as Eastern ARC Research
 Fellow, Vis established and facilitated collaborative interdisciplinary research initiatives in Digital
 Humanities within the new research consortium Eastern ARC, involving the universities of Kent,

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Essex, and East Anglia. In the current REF period, both Boutsikas and Vis have been co-directors
 of the Kent Interdisciplinary Centre for Spatial Studies. Staff have also worked with materials
 scientists (Laurence et al. 2017; Kyriakidis et al. 2017).

 Engagement and Wider Contributions to Economy and Society

 Strong international contributions are made in CLAS’ impact case studies, especially in the field
 of heritage policy and practice, meeting our first impact strategy aim (Section 1). Further to these,
 Labadi is part of the Sustainable Development Goals working group of the International Council
 on Monuments and Sites, ICOMOS (attended by more than 150 international experts), and is
 leading the preparation of relevant Policy Guidance. CLAS grant projects have led to exhibitions
 showcasing innovative museum practice and sustainable development proposals (Swift, Vis). In
 addition, a large proportion of CLAS staff have contributed to transforming the public perception
 of Classical Antiquity, mainly through school/museum initiatives as described below. These
 initiatives fulfil our second impact strategy aim.

 Laurence continued impact work from REF2014 aimed at schools and the wider public, using
 social media for dissemination (supported by internal funding). In 2014, two animated films
 released on the TED.Ed network had achieved 222,415 and 39,204 views respectively. By July
 2020, these figures were c. 10 million and 8 million views. Analysis of YouTube comments shows
 how these films challenge misconceptions about the past (e.g. viewers who thought ‘Islam
 invented arranged marriage’ realised this existed in the Roman period). UK-wide Roman
 Animation Script-Writing schools competitions took place in 2016 and 2017, and the ‘Lucius’
 Romans' blog, with over 8 million viewers, made regular posts 2014-18.

 Staff have also reached out to diverse audiences through participation in TV and radio broadcasts;
 e.g. BBC Radio 4 (Laurence 2015, Ancient Ways; Vis 2016, In Our Time; Wyles 2019), BBC
 regional TV (Willis 2014, BBC Humberside; Lavan 2019, BBC SE), Channel 4 (Willis 2016 in
 Britain's Ancient Tracks), Channel 5 (Laurence 2014 in Rome: The World’s First Superpower),
 and the UK and US National Geographic Channel (Boutsikas 2019).

 Wyles prioritises Classics impact work with schools, incorporating her research on Greek drama.
 Within this REF cycle, she has delivered talks at 19 schools, 18 A-level Classics conferences,
 three teacher-training days, and 11 public events. To support this, and reach further audiences,
 she has written three short articles for popular journals/magazines targeted at schools.
 Collaborating with Massolit (a company supporting UK schools Classics teaching), Wyles has
 contributed four video courses keyed to A-level modules and available for schools subscription.
 She also served on the advisory board of Brighton-based charity Actors of Dionysus (promoting
 public engagement with ancient myth through school workshops/theatre), and has been involved
 with ‘Access to Classics’ at the East End Classics Centre (funded by ‘Capital Classics’/‘Classics
 for All’). Wyles and Burden-Strevens organised a high-profile event (featuring Natalie Haynes) to
 launch CLAS’s engagement, as a partner institution, with the Advocating Classics Education
 project (ACE), promoting school teaching of Classics locally.

 Both CLAS staff and PGRs have been engaged in further impact work with schools, museums,
 and heritage organisations, including: Canterbury Cathedral (Alwis); Canterbury Museums
 (Lavan, Laurence, Rudolph, Swift); the Royal National Institute of Blind People accessibility project
 with Canterbury Museums (Rudolph); workshops for the University of the Third Age (Alwis,
 Burden-Strevens, Wyles); and York ‘Festival of Ideas’ and the Cheltenham Festival (Wyles). Staff
 have further engaged in consultancy work for museums (Swift), TV programmes (Wyles 2018 for
 Child Genius on Channel 4) and computer games (Lowe). Labadi partnered with Folkestone Town
 Council, contributing to the Folkestone Triennial 2017 (consultancy and outreach). The 3D
 scanning and modelling research expertise developed by our archaeology technician (Bosworth)
 has led to projects for museums both locally and nationally (Dartford Museum, 2014; Beaney
 House of Art and Knowledge, Canterbury, 2018; Dover Museum, 2015; Maison Dieu Museum,
 Faversham, 2016; Roman Museum Canterbury, 2016; and Corinium Museum, Cirencester, 2015).
 Funded collaborative doctoral awards incorporating work placements have contributed to the

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 goals of heritage organisations in training future heritage professionals and researching their
 collections.




                                                                                        Page 14
