Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Liverpool Hope University

 Unit of Assessment: 19 – Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy



Liverpool Hope University’s UoA 19 is located in the School of Humanities within the History,
Politics and International Relations Subject Team. Politics was first launched as a subject at the
university in 2005 and International Relations in 2009, at first bringing together existing research
and teaching expertise in these areas before expanding and developing into a well-established
contributor to the university’s growing research profile. The subject team was created in 2019 as
part of a university-wide reorganisation into a system of Schools. Until this reorganisation, the
Politics and IS unit was situated within the Department of History and Politics in the Faculty of Arts
and Humanities.

The members of the subject team, and their areas of research, are as follows:

Dr Robert Busby: American politics, including political movements and political marketing; political
scandal and aspects of political communication.

Dr Michael Holmes: the impact of European integration on political parties, especially parties of the
left, and party systems; Irish foreign policy, particularly as it relates to European Union politics.

Dr Stephen McLoughlin: the prevention of mass atrocities, UN policy on atrocity prevention,
Responsibility to Protect, Humanitarian intervention, Comparative genocide studies .

Dr Catalina Montoya-Londoño: Comparative Politics, Conflict and Peace Processes and
International Relations, diplomacy and peacebuilding in Colombia'.

Dr Danny Rye: political power and empowerment, political organisations, political parties and
movements.

There are two key clusters of research in the team which are the main focus for our ongoing
research strategy and which have provided the basis for our impact strategy. We anticipate that
these two themes will continue to form an important part of our research strategy going forward:

1. Political organisation and activism, including parties and social/political movements (Busby,
Holmes, Rye).

The research seek to examine the following:

   •   How the structure of power relations in political organisations is impacted by the pursuit of
       political power and the impact this has on those participating in it.


   •   How political organisation can empower its participants to be effective political activists and
       citizens, or alternatively act as a barrier.


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   •   The extent to which alternative forms of political organisation (e.g. community and online
       organising) can fulfil key representation / civil society roles traditionally associated with
       political parties.

   •   The factors underpinning the emergence of grassroots ‘insurgent’ movements and new
       political organisations on the right and on the left.


   •   Emerging new forms of political organisation in the interface between movements and
       parties, in the UK and US, potentially shaping new forms of political party organisation.


2. Peace-building and conflict prevention (McLoughlin and Montoya-Londoño).

The research in this area seeks to examine the following:

   •   The causes behind the committing of atrocities (including genocide), and the means by
       which they can they be prevented.


   •   The role of different groups in reconciliation and peace-building, including women, young
       people, refugees and those working with them and how these can be encouraged and
       supported.


   •   The practice of remembrance and memorialisation and its role in securing and underlining
       peace and reconciliation.


   •   How political and media discourse frames the understanding of peace and reconciliation
       processes and how that impacts on policy-makers, professionals and the public (with a
       particular focus on transitional justice in the Colombian Peace process).


As well as members of this subject team, the UoA includes two Politics and IS specialists from
other subject teams. Anthony Ridge-Newman (Media and Communications) specialises in the
analysis of political communications, particularly in the context of political parties. This overlaps in
key areas with the political organisation theme with a specific communications angle. Julia Lux
(Social Policy) focuses on critical political economy and discourse in her research. A significant
part of her work concerns the political and economic environment in which political actors operate,
which also has some links and overlaps with the political organisation and activism research
theme. Whilst the environment for these staff is predominantly that of their ‘home’ Schools, they
also contribute to and benefit from the environment described here.

The natural links between these subjects and disciplines in the context of the study of politics are
underlined by the participation of staff in sharing and discussing research through the Political
Studies Research Group, initiated by Dr Danny Rye. Both Dr Ridge-Newman and Dr Lux have both
been active contributors to the Political Studies Research Group.




                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Fostering and maintaining these links is one part of how the UoA has sought to develop and apply
a strategy dedicated to building on REF2014 and improving its research performance for
REF2021. In pursuing this strategy the UoA has sought to make productive use of university-wide
support structures for research as well as undertaking several initiatives of its own.

Members of the UoA have been individually and collectively committed to building networks that
support inter- and multi-disciplinary collaboration, especially through a range of research institutes
and groups built around key competencies, including understanding peace and conflict (The
Desmond Tutu Centre for War and Peace Studies) and European studies (the European Institute).
This has helped to enrich the approach to studying and researching politics at Hope University,
including exposure to a wide-range of methodological approaches, and opens up possibilities for
further cross-disciplinary cooperation on key topics, laying the ground-work for future impactful
research.

A priority has also been to encourage and strengthen the research culture through collaborative
working: sharing and supporting each other’s research in a constructively critical environment
through research seminars and participation in university and public events.

Our strategic aims were set out in our REF environment statement in 2014, and were as follows:

To increase the number of members of staff active in research in politics & international
studies:

At the last REF, the unit submitted research from seven active members of staff. In this REF, we
will again be submitting research from seven current research active staff. However, in this
submission five of these staff are core members of the Politics and International Relations team
(only two were in 2014), along with politics and IR specialists from Media and Communications and
Social Policy. There are additional submissions from two former staff.

To continue to develop and strengthen our research centres and research groups:

The research structure of the UoA is built around two research centres and two research groups,
which form the basis of research coordination and collaboration. These are:

   •   The Archbishop Desmond Tutu Centre for War and Peace Studies,

   •   The European Institute,

   •   The Political Studies Research Group

   •   The Irish Studies Research Group.


Two of these (the European Institute and the Political Studies Research Group) have been
established since REF 2014, an indicator of our active commitment to developing research
strategy and co-operation both within the team, the wider unit of assessment and across the
Faculty and University.

The Archbishop Desmond Tutu Centre for War and Peace Studies – originally established in 2004,
and named (with his permission) for the Archbishop in 2007 - was located within the Department of

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
History and Politics, and – following the reorganisation of the University into schools – now the
School of Humanities. Its direction, however, remains within the Politics and IR subject team. The
Centre seeks to promote the study of conflict and conflict resolution, including in its remit the
analysis of war, peace and the phases in between; and embracing the study of both international
and civil conflict.

Although it is based in the Politics team, it is multi-disciplinary in emphasis, enriched by a large
panel of members coming from many different departments and subject areas such as English,
Drama, Theology, Psychology, Politics, History and Media studies, creating an interdisciplinary
environment for research and postgraduate teaching.

The Director (Dr Catalina Montoya-Londoño) and Deputy Director (Dr Stephen McLoughlin) are
both located within the Politics and IR team and have been instrumental in cementing and
expanding the Centre’s presence as an active disseminator of accessible research on war, conflict
and peace-building within the University, the wider research community and in the local
community. Seventy one events (all open to the public) on relevant issues have been organised
since September 2016. A number of these events have had a direct role to play in impacting on
public debate on key issues of war, peace and related issues. For example, Windrush, Israel-
Palestine Memorialisation and Commemoration of Conflict (at the centenary of the end of the First
World War) amongst others. Unfortunately, a number of events planned to take place between
March and June 2020 had to be cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

The European Institute is a University initiative, established as a vehicle for supporting and
fostering cooperation between Liverpool Hope University and the Catholic University of Lille, in the
form of staff and student exchanges, research collaboration and other projects. Dr Michael Holmes
is its Director, playing an active role in organising events and facilitating collaboration on key areas
of research and research supervision (as well as teaching). Key events on Brexit, EU-US relations
and security, Ireland and Russia amongst others have been conducted with the participation of
academics from the UK and France, consular staff from various European countries, students and
others. The institute has also encouraged collaboration more generally: for example, research-
inspired events on Grassroots activism between 2015 and 2017 included active participation by
academics from the Catholic University of Lille. These events have contributed one of LHU 21’s
impact case studies for REF2021.

Dr Holmes has also played an important role in the Irish Studies Research Group (ISRG), an inter-
disciplinary forum which brings together the large number of researchers working on modern
Ireland within the Faculty, running a regular programme of seminars on different themes related to
Irish Studies. As well as Politics, it includes the participation of academics across the arts,
sciences and social sciences (including History, Psychology, Health Sciences, Business, English,
Media and Communications, Drama, Dance and Performance).

Dr Danny Rye established the Political Studies Research Group (PSRG) in March 2018, an inter-
disciplinary forum, showcasing politics and policy-oriented research across the University and
seeking to encourage and foster collaboration and mutual support in research and to encourage
student engagement with the University’s political research community. Eight well-attended events
were organised between March 2018 and December 2020 (around two events per term). Staff from
Media and Communications, Psychology, Sociology, Social Policy delivered sessions on a range
of topics including Brexit, Music and Protest, Politics and Technology and political organisation.

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Membership reached 54 research active staff and students. Unfortunately, a number of events
planned to take place between January and June 2020 had to be cancelled.

Further our links with external research networks and groups:

The Tutu Centre, as a prominent research centre at the University with growing external research
links has been significant in this. It has built important links with other research centres, networks
and groups, with which it has collaborated on a number of events and conferences which link with,
inform and support with key research on peace-building and conflict prevention. The European
Institute has also played a key role in building links with scholars in the Politics and IS UoA –
supporting research and impact in the key research area of political organisation and activism in
particular. It has also supported collaborations in other disciplines (such as Sociology). The
participation of individual staff in various research networks and groups, has also contributed to
building the unit’s research links and reputation on national and international levels (see Section 4
below for more details).

Increase the successful number of applications for research funding and the range of
sources with a view to increasing our research income:

Funding has proved challenging in the current environment, but staff continue to make applications
with some significant successes (see income in section 3 below).

Grow the number of MPhil and PhD students in Politics and IS:
In the REF period, team members have supervised four PhD students – one exclusively based in
the Politics and IR subject team, two conducted jointly with History and one jointly with Social
Work. This represents an increase from the three reported in REF2014 (see Section 2). Two of
these projects have been completed in the census period.

Our Strategic Aims:

Since 2014, we have increased our active research staff and number of postgraduate research
students. Our research culture has enhanced through our research groups and centres, and the
range and depth of outputs has grown, enabled in part by a supportive research culture within the
team. Our strategy going forward is to sustain this progress and enhance our standing in the
following ways:

   1. Helping our research staff to develop and flourish via the retention and development of
      mutual support mechanisms (such as research seminars and workshops, systems of
      mentoring for new staff and early career researchers), encouraging the take-up of training
      and other internal and external support, and procuring support for pursuing and applying for
      grants.
   2. Continue to develop our research capacity and capabilities to grow further the publication
      and dissemination of research that is of national, international and world leading quality. To
      develop stronger internal and external networks with a view to increasing capacity and
      develop projects for attracting research funding.
   3. Grow the impact of our Research Groups and centres by developing more public and
      community engagement activities relating to our key areas of research and by building
      relationships with regional and national networks, groups and organisations.

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   4. Strengthen our post-graduate research programme by developing and providing research
      opportunities reflecting our key areas of research (especially in peace studies and political
      organisation and activism).
   5. To create further opportunities for co-operation and collaboration within the team and
      across disciplines through our internal research institutes and bodies and by utilising the
      University’s new School structure



 2. People

Staff strategy and staff development:

The Politics and IR team as constituted on 31 July 2020 consists of five Senior Lecturers: Dr
Robert Busby, Dr Michael Holmes, Dr Stephen McLoughlin, Dr Catalina Montoya-Londoño and Dr
Danny Rye. Two staff from other subject teams in the University are included in this UoA, and they
are supported by their respective Schools, who have similar approaches to those described here.

Danny Rye joined in January 2015 as a Post Doctoral Teaching Fellow. The position was made
available following the retirement of a staff member who was not engaged in active research and
was not submitted to REF2014. The appointment represented a shift in emphasis from a teaching-
focused appointment strategy to one that sought to balance that with an expansion in the unit’s
research capacity and profile. Dr Rye had already begun to establish a strong research reputation
since defending his PhD thesis in 2012 (which was awarded the Political Studies Association’s Sir
Ernest Barker Prize). Dr Rye was promoted from Post-Doctoral Teaching Fellow to Lecturer in
2016. His growing research portfolio and engagement in internal and external dissemination and
impact activities led to his promotion from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer in 2019.

Dr Stephen McLoughlin, an expert in the field of mass atrocity prevention, humanitarian
intervention and the Responsibility to Protect doctrine, was appointed to replace Dr Stefanie
Kappler – who had, with encouragement and support from the team, helped to establish and
develop a strong reputation for war and peace studies expertise within the team. Dr Kappler left in
the Summer of 2015, and with the appointment of Dr McLoughlin, the University sought to replace
her expertise in order to continue building on that significant work. This helped to consolidate war
and peace studies expertise and add to the range of expertise within the field available in the team.
Dr McLoughlin also brought with him a strong and growing research reputation, demonstrating the
increasing priority placed upon this aspect of the team’s work. He became Deputy Director of the
Desmond Tutu Centre for War and Peace Studies in 2016 and was promoted to Senior Lecturer in
2019.

Catalina Montoya-Londoño began as a lecturer in the Department of Media and Communication
(albeit with Politics and IS interests). She increasingly became engaged in work more directly
related to the unit, particularly war and peace studies (for example, examining the role of media in
framing the peace process in Colombia). As a result, she later moved into the Politics and
International Relations subject team, and has taken a leading role in building the war and peace
studies element of the unit’s teaching and research. In particular, she has been Director of the
Desmond Tutu Centre for War and Peace Studies since 2016, since when she has greatly
expanded the Centre’s public activity. She was promoted in 2018 from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer.


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Dr Robert Busby is a Senior Lecturer, and has been an active researcher in American Politics
(including the Presidency), political marketing and political scandal for more than twenty years. He
was initially a member of the now defunct American Studies Department at Hope University and
was a founder member, with Michael Holmes, of the Politics programme in 2005 and subsequently
Politics and International Relations in 2009. More recently, he has been researching political
movements in the United States, particularly those on the right of American Politics such as the
Tea Party movement. This has brought his work into Hope’s political organisation and activism
research theme, through which he has contributed to the team’s thinking on grassroots activism
and organisation and to its impact activities in this area.

Michael Holmes, Senior Lecturer, was a founder member of the Politics programme at Hope and
also instrumental in the establishment of what became the International Relations programme. His
main research interests are in Irish foreign policy and the impact of European integration on
political parties and party systems, with a particular interest in parties of the left. In particular, he
has been researching the impact of the financial crisis on 2008 on European left-wing parties,
which contributes to Hope’s political organisation and activism research theme. He has
collaborated with researchers across Europe, including through the “Next Left” research group
associated with the Foundation for European Progressive Societies (FEPS) in Brussels and as a
Committee Member for the University Association for Contemporary European Studies (UACES).
Dr Holmes has also made a significant contribution to encouraging and developing research links
and collaborations through his co-directorship of the European Institute (see Section 4).

Two research active staff on contracts for 18 months (Dr Dimitrios Anagnostakis and Dr Kate
Mattocks) have contributed to research and the research environment. Both were employed in the
Politics and IR team between January 2017 and June 2018. Each brought with them new
specialisms which have helped to extend and expand the range of research competencies and
diversify the research culture in the Unit and which have contributed to the overall UoA submission.
Dr Anagnostakis undertook research in security studies, particularly between the EU and the US,
whilst Dr Mattocks brought expertise in public policy and decision-making, particularly at a
European level. Sadly, budgetary constraints at the time meant that it was not possible to retain
these staff permanently.

Two other contributors to the UoA from outside of the Politics and IR team (see Section 1 above)
have brought with them a range of experience which has added to the breadth and depth of our
research portfolio: Dr Anthony Ridge-Newman, joined the University as a Lecturer in Media and
Communications in 2016 and was promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2019. His work in particular
focuses on political communications. Dr Julia Lux who was recruited as a Lecturer in Social Policy
in January 2017 researches critical political economy and discourse and its impact on political
actors.

Staff Development:

Members of staff have taken advantage of the University’s programme of on-going skills training
for post-graduate supervisors and research-related skills including writing workshops, small grant
applications, applying to research councils for larger grants. As well as the usual university training
and support mechanisms for research, members of the Politics and IR team have also initiated
their own research support. The Politics and IR team in 2017-18 began a series of regular
research seminars (usually monthly in term time) designed to provide an opportunity for team

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
members to present research at whatever stage it may be – whether recently submitted or
published work or embryonic research ideas. The opportunity is to share research experience and
ideas and subject them to friendly, constructive criticism and discussion, thereby contributing to
staff development and support in research, creating a supportive and constructively critical
research environment.

The department and the team have been supportive of each other in applying for and making use
of the University’s scheme of Consolidated Research Time (CRT). Under this scheme, staff are
permitted relief from teaching and administration duties, including (until 2019 the provision of
funding for teaching cover, in order to make progress on research projects, papers and book
proposals. All members of staff in the Politics and IR team have taken advantage of this since the
scheme was introduced, and have contributed the following outputs as a consequence:

Busby, R. and Hoey, P. (2018) ‘Le Tea Party Français: Mirror Movements and Grassroots Protest’
in Journal of Comparative Politics 11:1

Dommett, K. and Rye D, (2018) ‘Taking Up the Baton: Representative Functions and New
Campaigning Organisations’ in Politics

Stephen McLoughlin (2019) ‘Atrocity Prevention, National Resilience and Implementation’, in
Cecilia Jacob and Martin Mennecke (eds.), Implementing R2P: First Experiences and a Future
Agenda (New York: Routledge).

Montoya-Londoño, C. (2017) "Development vs Peace? The Role of Media in the Law of Victims
and Land Restitution in Colombia, Media, War & Conflict. First published date: May-25-2017
10.1177/1750635217710677

Research profile:

Politics and IS academics at Hope have an increasingly high research profile regionally, nationally
and internationally. Many are active and sought after commentators on related issues, have taken
key roles in external research networks. All staff are regular contributors to specialist academic
conferences, disseminating their research, building collaborations and networks. Many staff also
maintain a public profile through regular media commentary and social media presence.

Doctoral degrees:

We have made moderate progress in the supervision of research degrees, one of which (Nina
Rogers, see below) has come from the funded PhD places provided by the Vice-Chancellor’s
scholarship scheme. Staff have made use of the available support, and investment by the
University in training for supervisors, including annual updates (all supervisors must at minimum
complete an annual training event to maintain familiarity with regulations and key developments in
supervision practice), but also in important specific elements of the supervisory process, including
structures and procedures, annual monitoring, ethics and the confirmation process.

Research students are encouraged to participate in the life of the department, research centres
and groups and have actively contributed to events organised by the Desmond Tutu Centre for
War and Peace Studies, the European Institute and the Political Studies Research Group as well

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
as subject team research seminars. Presentation of research progress and papers has been
treated as an opportunity for research students to receive supportive, constructive feedback on
different aspects of their research by a wider range of academics beyond their immediate
supervisory team.

Four current and former members of staff have been involved in supervising PhD projects in the
census period. Two of these projects have been completed and two are ongoing:

Dr Stefanie Kappler supervised Susan Forde’s project in War and Peace studies, Spaces of
Peace: Social movement as conflict transformation in Mostar, Bosnia-Herzegovina. This PhD was
completed in September 2017. Dr Forde later published a monograph and other publications
based on this work and is currently Leverhulme Research Fellow at York University researching
young people’s experience of peace and conflict in Cape Town, South Africa.

Dr Michael Holmes was supervisor for Martin Smith’s project Fascism in the 21st Century: Jobbik
and the British National Party a Twin-case Study. This was a joint History and Politics project. This
PhD was completed in August 2020.

Dr Robert Busby is a supervisor on Nina Rogers project Margaret Thatcher’s Ideological Roots, a
joint project with History. This is an ongoing project which is due for completion in February 2021.
Nina has been an active member of the PSA Conservatism Studies specialist group, and a
member of its executive committee.

Dr Danny Rye supervises Katherine Jewell’s project: Momentum: A Critical Analysis of an
Emerging Social Movement. This is a part-time project, conducted jointly with the Social Work
subject team. This project is in progress and is due for completion in 2024.

One of these projects has been based primarily in the Politics and IR Subject team (Forde), whilst
others are joint projects with History (Smith, Rogers) and Social Work (Jewell).

Promotion of Equality and Diversity:

We are committed to supporting equality and diversity within the team within the principles of
embedded in the University’s mission and values and as outlined in the University’s institutional
environment statement, including in terms of sex, race, sexual orientation, gender reassignment,
disability, age, religion, maternity or relationships.

In particular, improving the balance of the unit in terms of protected characteristics is a priority.
Although there are some improvements in here, we recognise that there are some key imbalances
in the unit still which we continue to seek to address through our recruitment processes.

The unit’s submission has a balance of male to female staff of 5:2 (28 per cent female). Whilst we
have grown the number of submitted staff, we recognise that this ratio has not improved with it (the
2014 submission had the same ratio of 5:2). We are therefore very conscious of the need to
redouble efforts to work towards parity. Two staff have been able to make use of the structures
available to declare circumstances affecting their potential research outputs because of pregnancy
/ maternity.



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Three (43 per cent) of the staff submitted as part of the unit could be classified as white British.
However, we recognise that the unit is under-represented in terms of BAME staff, something that
we will seek to address through our recruitment process.

All staff have been required to undertake the University’s on-line Equality and Diversity training.
The knowledge gained from training has been used to identify and address some key additional
issues of equality related to the unit and its research which we also would look to include in our
ongoing strategy, including:

Ensuring appropriate accessibility to internal and external events organised by or through research
centres and institutes, particularly for those with mobility issues, hearing or visual impairments.

Ensuring that our research environment is friendly and accessible to and recognises those with
caring responsibilities. This has implications for timings of meetings and events, workload
expectations, flexibility, availability and so on.

Hope University is an ecumenical Christian foundation, which recognises the value of all faiths.
The unit, subject team and School of which the Politics and International Relations team are a part,
reflects openness to a variety of religious practice and none.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

A key aim of our research strategy over the last five years has been to increase the amount of
income coming in from grant applications. This has been a significant challenge, but three key
strategies have helped to achieve at least one major success, and we expect will lay the
groundwork for future successes in this area.

   •   The specific focus on our work in two key areas – particularly war and peace / conflict
       resolution

   •   The recruitment of staff with a strong research focus relating to these areas

   •   The strategy of seeking to develop and improve external networks and collaborations

All of this is supported by an investment, particularly in terms of the commitment of academic staff,
to the development of a supportive research infrastructure in the form of key research centres and
groups. These have acted as a focus of activity, creative thinking and provided routes to external
collaborations (through invited speakers, workshops, conferences) that have contributed to a
significant development in the unit’s research culture.

Grants:

Our research on peace-building and conflict resolution has been supported by a grant from UK
Research and Innovation for £1,890,000. Dr Stephen McLoughlin is co-investigator on this project.
The Principal Investigator is Professor Parvati Raghuram, Professor of Geography and Migration at
The Open University. The project ‘Decolonising Peace Education in Africa’ runs from April 2020 to
March 2024 responds to a pressing need for alternative knowledges and values in peace

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
education curricula. It aims to develop quality Open Educational Resource (OER) materials for
peace education which are rooted in local, contextualised and gendered knowledges and values
rather than the Eurocentric approaches which have dominated. The particular contribution that Dr
McLoughlin brings to the project is a focus in his recent research on the connection between
successful peace and atrocity-prevention measures and the ‘local’ i.e. those who are directly
affected by conflict.

Research outcomes of this project include at least nine journal articles, one edited book, four
special issues of journals on peace education and one PhD. Materials to support impact include
four country briefing papers (one for each core country in the project), educational and training
material in local languages for use by peace educators. The project expects to train a minimum of
100 trainers in each of the four core countries by embedding teaching materials in universities,
colleges and see a minimum of 15,000 teachers trained in peace education. More information on
the project can be found via the UK Research and Innovation website (www.ukri.org) .

Dr Anthony Ridge-Newman contributed to a grant application through the University of Vaasa,
Finland, for a project assessing the future of journalism. The project focuses on how digital
technologies are transforming journalism, including chatbots, automated journalism, live video
platforms and social outreach apps. It is concerned with how these developments challenge
established journalism and its relationship with audiences and give rise to novel business models.
The project was granted 150,000 Euros from the Helsingin Sanomat Foundation. As well as a full
time project researcher (based in Vaasa) for two years, the funds will also cover Dr Ridge-
Newman’s research trips to Finland. The project is a collaboration with Åbo Akademi’s Experience
Lab.

The main output will be an edited collection of about 20 chapters by 30 different scholars (currently
under consideration with Palgrave Macmillan) expected in 2022. The beneficiaries are the
Helsingin Sanomat Foundation, which promotes quality journalism and freedom of speech,
especially in Nordic countries. More information can be found via the Helsingin Sanomat
Foundation (www.hssaatio.fi/en/apurahat/disrupting-the-media-scene/).

Dr Ridge-Newman was also successful in gaining two other external awards: A grant of £1,000
from UK in a Changing Europe for a knowledge exchange event. It was held at Kings College
London and was chaired by the Telegraph Newspaper. As well as organising the event, Dr Ridge-
Newman was on the panel, as were three other scholars who contributed chapters to his edited
collection Reporting the Road to Brexit: International Media and the EU Referendum 2016
(Palgrave 2018).

Finally, Dr Ridge-Newman was also awarded a ‘Pushing the Boundaries’ Grant by the Political
Studies Association for an event designed to feed back to Conservative Party stakeholders key
findings of his research for two books (2014 and 2016) about the impact of new media (internet in
the 2000s and TV in the 1950s-60s) on the organisational culture of the British Conservative Party.
Prof Tim Bale was on the panel as was a director from the Conservative Party HQ. The invited
audience included Conservative Party representatives, senior journalists, policy makers, activists,
bloggers and business people.




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Support for impact:

Dr Danny Rye has twice been granted HEIF road to impact funding by the University totalling
£4,000 to support the organisation of two workshops on activism which have made a significant
contribution to our aim to support effective grassroots political activism and organisation by building
capacity, influencing practice and strategy. Dr Anthony Ridge-Newman was also awarded £500
from Liverpool Hope impact funds to organise a one-day conference on the Conservative Party.
Forums at Faculty level (under the University’s pre-2020 structure) provided a space for sharing
and collaborating with colleagues across schools and departments to help support the practical
development of impactful research projects.

Research Groups organised from within the Unit

These are a key part of our research infrastructure that have played a significant role in supporting
our capacity to work with internal and external partners to develop and collaborate on research and
scholarship, impact, dissemination and knowledge exchange.

The Archbishop Desmond Tutu Centre for War and Peace Studies: provides a platform of
interaction for academics and practitioners in the field of peace and conflict studies. It promotes
and disseminates research into the political, economic, historical and cultural contexts which give
rise to conflict and play a part in its resolution.

European Institute: Formed in September 2016 as a vehicle for cooperation between Liverpool
Hope University and the Catholic University of Lille with the aim of establishing programmes for
collaboration in research, teaching, and development of joint degree programmes. It is a multi-
disciplinary body with a particular remit to promote greater knowledge and awareness of Europe
and European issues broadly defined.

The European Institute has a number of research clusters on a range of topics, including: the
Future of Europe (law, politics, economics, sociology); Enterprise and sustainability (business,
marketing, economics); Teaching innovation (education); Health care, society and policy (social
work, policy studies, psychology); Literature and popular culture (literature, media); Hermeneutics
(theology, philosophy); Ecology and environment (geography, ecology).

Political Studies Research Group: launched in March 2018, the PSRG is specifically designed to
foster inter-disciplinary collaboration between active researchers across a much wider range of
politics and policy research. It also provides opportunities to share research and get input from
alternative disciplinary perspectives. By bringing together researchers from different disciplines and
research traditions, it encourages the sharing and dissemination of knowledge and alternative
disciplinary and methodological approaches.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Staff in the UoA are involved in building links with the research community beyond Hope
University, establishing partnerships and contributing to the community and wider society through
research dissemination and other forms of external engagement. This links directly with our

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
strategic aims to continue to develop research centres and groups, and to further our links with
external networks and groups.

1. Building Links with Other Researchers:

Through the work of the Archbishop Desmond Tutu Centre for War and Peace Studies and the
European Institute, the unit has made significant progress in building links with and disseminating
research into the wider research community. Staff are also actively engaged in a range of other
research networks and groups.

The Tutu Centre

The Archbishop Desmond Tutu Centre for War and Peace Studies has been especially active in
building links with other research centres, networks and groups, with which it has collaborated on a
number of events and conferences, including:

   •   The Conflict Analysis Research Centre, University of Kent: Judith Large, Senior Research
       Fellow at the Centre, and with thirty years’ experience working in violently conflicted and
       post-war transition settings, led a talk and discussion on the subject of women and peace
       building in March 2017 to mark International Women’s Day.

   •   Alexandria Library, Egypt: in March 2018, scholars from Alexandria Library participated in
       three events as part of a Symposium about Religion and Conflict held at Liverpool Hope
       University.

   •   The Balfour Project: Professor Roger Spooner OBE and Dr Monica Spooner, Trustees of
       the Balfour Project UK (an advocacy organisation founded to uphold equal rights for the
       Israeli and Palestinian peoples) participated in a Public Conference on the Balfour
       Declaration (1917-2017) in November 2017.

   •   The Centre for Justice and Peacebuilding (CJP), Easter Mennonite University: the CJP
       exists to educate and train active peacebuilders by integrating practice, theory and
       research and as such provided valuable insights into their work.

   •   The Association of Commonwealth Universities (ACU): Through her key role as Director of
       the Centre, Dr Montoya-Londoño participated in a scoping session for the Commonwealth
       Peace and Reconciliation Network of the Association of Commonwealth Universities in
       Melbourne, Australia (8-10 October 2018) and subsequently in a Commonwealth Research
       Showcase of the Association of Commonwealth Universities (19 January 2019), which
       provided the opportunity to share the work of the Tutu Centre with the Duchess of Sussex,
       the patron, and with other researchers from across the Commonwealth. Dr Montoya-
       Londoño was elected as a co-convener of the Association’s research group, Peace and
       Reconciliation Network of the Association of Commonwealth Universities in which capacity
       she organised a Commonwealth Research Showcase webinar-networking event (25 June
       2019).




                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The European Institute

The European Institute is designed to foster collaboration in both research and teaching between
the partner universities – Liverpool Hope University and the Catholic University of Lille. Highlights
include:

   •   As part of the ongoing partnership between the two universities, academics from Liverpool
       Hope and the Catholic University of Lille, took part in a collaborative event organised to
       mark the centenary of the end of the First World War, Centenaire pour la Paix was held at
       the Catholic University of Lille. The purpose of the conference was to reflect on the
       changing nature of conflict since 1914, and to provide space for reflection on the
       construction of a just day-to-day peace in a globalized society based on exchange and
       communication.

   •   Academics from the University of Lille participated in a colloquium on grassroots activism in
       July 2015, which brought together research-active academics and local activists to discuss
       and share learning on activism, which included the following topics: generating and
       sustaining participation, striking the right balance between participation and effective
       campaigning, making the best use of communications technology, effective strategies and
       action repertoires. This has also contributed to an impact case study for the unit.

   •   Publications that have been impacted and enhanced by collaboration through the institute’s
       activity include:

           o   Brennan, M (ed) (2017) Theorising the Popular (Cambridge Scholars Publishing):
               based on papers at the Theorising the Popular conference held at Liverpool Hope
               University Summer 2015, which included participation by scholars from the Catholic
               University of Lille.

           o   Holmes, M. and Roder, K. (eds) (2019) The European Left and the Crisis
               (Manchester University Press): a collection which examines how left-wing parties in
               the EU responded to the financial crash, the recession and the bailouts of the past
               ten years and includes chapters on the French left by Julien Navarro and Antonella
               Seddone of the Catholic University of Lille, and the Irish left, by Michael Holmes.

Other Research Networks and Groups

Staff have and continue to participate in important UK and international research networks.

   •   Dr Michael Holmes is a committee member for University Association for Contemporary
       European Studies (UACES);

   •   Dr Anthony Ridge-Newman is convenor of The Political Studies Association (PSA)
       Conservatism Studies Group and Chair of the Tory Research Impact Network. Co-
       organised, with Dr Busby, a conference on Political Marketing and Conservatism, Edge Hill
       December 2018.

   •   Dr Danny Rye has been a board member of the International Political Science Association
       Research Committee on Political Power (RC36) (2014-16) and contributed papers to

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       conferences and panels organised by PSA specialist groups on Labour Movements,
       Conservatism Studies, and Elections Parties and Opinion Polling (EPOP);

Dr Robert Busby is engaged in and contributes to the PSA American Politics specialist group, the
Political Marketing Specialist Group and the Conservatism Studies group. In this latter role, he co-
organised, with Dr Ridge-Newman, a conference on Political Marketing and Conservatism, Edge
Hill December 2018.

2. Disseminating Research

Since 2014, a number of staff have been actively engaged in disseminating research and expertise
through widely-read public blogs, regional, national and international media.

   •   Dr Rye has written a number of blog pieces on political parties and participation for Open
       Democracy, LSE British Politics and Policy, Democratic Audit and Political Insight Plus. He
       has also given commentary and interviews on the same subjects for a range of broadcast
       media including the BBC TV and Radio, NPR, Liverpool TV and Heart North West radio. He
       has also been a regular commentator on Brexit and British politics on local radio.

   •   Dr Ridge-Newman has regularly appeared in various national and international media,
       including the likes of the BBC, Al Jazeera, Associated Press, TRT World News, Sydney
       Morning Herald, New Scientist and Newsweek.

   •   Dr Busby has been a regular commentator on BBC Radio Merseyside on American Politics,
       including the 2016 US Presidential election and the Trump presidency.

   •   Dr Holmes has made regular contributions to UK and Irish media on the subject of Brexit
       and Britain’s relationship with the European Union.

   •   Dr Montoya-Londoño has given interviews to BBC Radio Merseyside drawing on her
       research on the Peace Process in Colombia, and its relevance to Northern Ireland and
       terrorism in the UK.



3. Other Esteem Indicators

Various staff have also been actively engaged in a number of other prestigious activities:

Danny Rye

   •   Peer reviewer for various prestigious publishers and journals including: Routledge,
       University of Bristol Press, Manchester University Press, Journal of Politics, Political
       Studies, British Journal of Politics and International Relations, Information Technology and
       Politics.

   •   Member of the judging panel for the PSA Sir Ernest Barker Prize for Best Dissertation in
       Political Theory in 2018.



                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Stephen McLoughlin

   •   Honorary Research Fellow at the Asia Pacific Centre for the Responsibility to Protect, at the
       University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia.

   •   Reviewer for various journals and publishers, including Routledge, Global Responsibility to
       Protect, International Journal of Politics, Culture and Society.

   •   Guest editor for a special edition of the journal, Global Responsibility to Protect, 6:4 (2014).

Robert Busby

   •   Presented an invited public lecture at the Institute for the Americas – University College
       London, November 2014 - UCL London, ‘The Politics of Leaderless Organizations’.

   •   Board member for the Political Marketing Group, PSA Specialist Groups.

   •   Peer reviewer for Manchester University Press and for the Palgrave Political Marketing and
       Management series.

   •   External examiner for Politics at Edge Hill University and at the University of Central
       Lancashire.




                                                                                              Page 16
