Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of York

 Unit of Assessment: 27 - English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and structure

 The Department of English and Related Literature has built on its achievements in RAE 2008
 and REF 2014 through a marked increase in income generation, investment in facilities, and the
 recruitment of high-quality staff. Our research strategy has led to impact-oriented,
 interdisciplinary research with international reach; we shape the field of study through notable
 publications and dynamic collaborations. Our collegial, flexible ethos ensures that colleagues
 feel valued and supported in producing excellent research.

 Research in the Department ranges from Old English through medieval Romance to the
 Renaissance Bible, from Eighteenth-Century and Victorian literature and culture to British
 Muslim fictions, South African novels and Irish poetry. Since our inception, the phrase ‘Related
 Literature’ has encompassed research into British, Irish, US, African and Asian literatures in
 English and into literatures other than English, now including Greek, Latin, Italian, French,
 Dutch, Afrikaans, Arabic, Persian and Urdu. We work across cultures, histories and genres, with
 research strengths in drama, film, and the visual arts. Our methodologies include historicism,
 material culture, stylistics, literary and critical theory, the philosophy of literature, close reading,
 and biography. Recent developments include a strategic expansion of practice-led research in
 the creative industries and creative writing.

 On 31st July 2020, the Department had 42.8 FTE staff in post. Across the REF period we had an
 average of 38.33 staff. The Department is structured around four schools: Medieval,
 Renaissance, Eighteenth Century and Romantics, and Modern (1830 to the present day). These
 schools oversee and manage period-specific undergraduate modules, MA programmes and
 PhD supervision, and sustain and foster research. They form an integral part of York’s
 Interdisciplinary Research Centres (IRCs): Medieval Studies (CMS), Renaissance and Early
 Modern Studies (CREMS), Eighteenth Century Studies (CECS) and Modern Studies (CModS),
 in all of which English is the lead partner with the most significant financial stake (50%). We are
 one of two partner departments who support the Centre for Women’s Studies (CWS), and the
 lead partner for the Interdisciplinary Centre for Narrative Studies (ICNS).

 Research in the Medieval School is built around linguistic, chronological and geographical
 reach, and a commitment to the multilingual study of the medieval past. Eight academic staff
 work across a range of languages and cultures: Old English, Middle English, Old Norse, Latin,
 medieval French, medieval Dutch, medieval German, medieval Italian, and medieval Arabic. The
 school’s research foregrounds the connectedness of medieval literary cultures across
 continental Europe, the North Sea zone, the Mediterranean, and the Arab world. The school
 hosts seminar series in the Department and CMS, sponsors the annual Riddy public lecture and
 organizes major conferences, symposia and workshops in the UK and internationally.

 The Renaissance School is allied with CREMS and is home to researchers working on English
 and European literature, culture and history from the fifteenth to the seventeenth centuries, from
 the history of the book to the Reformation and religious change, the reception of classical texts
 to the playhouses of early modern London. Six academic staff organise a prolific programme of
 conferences, symposia, and seminars, including an annual seminar on intellectual history (‘The
 Thomas Browne Seminar’), the annual Patrides Lecture, the biennial York International
 Shakespeare Festival, printing workshops, and regular CREMS events including a lively
 postgraduate-run Cabinet of Curiosities.

 With ten academic staff, the Eighteenth Century and Romantics School plays a key role in
 the international reputation of CECS. Research addresses interrelated themes including fashion

                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and material culture, Enlightenment networks and sociability, science, medicine and literary
 culture, radical print, empire and orientalism, urban culture, religion, gender and women’s
 writing, Gothic writing and theatre history. The school organises seminar series, conferences,
 the annual Stephen Copley lecture and a Postgraduate Forum, as well as collaborations with
 local and national museums, schools and local heritage organisations.

 The Modern School houses nineteen academic staff, including five colleagues who produce
 both criticism and creative writing. The school’s interdisciplinary research is extended by
 CMoDs, CWS and ICNS. Its research covers a substantial historical range (Victorian to
 Contemporary) and crosses traditional period and conceptual boundaries, including poetry and
 poetics, gender and women’s studies, narrative theory, nineteenth-century literature,
 Modernism, Irish literature, the creative industries, global and postcolonial literatures, and
 film. The School hosts a seminar series, the annual Berthoud public lecture, numerous
 conferences, and termly lectures by Visiting Professor in Psychoanalysis and Literature, Adam
 Phillips.

 1.2 Research Strategy

 Our Research Strategy is designed to nurture a culture which integrates disciplinary rigour with
 interdisciplinary reach. English and Related Literature thrives within a University centred in ‘a
 shared community, rather than hierarchical management structures … with an emphasis on
 partnership across different career stages and the creation of strong and supportive
 relationships between academic and professional services’ (Institutional Environment Statement
 (IES), 1.3).

 In our submission to REF 2014, we laid out plans to build on our world-class reputation by
 foregrounding:
      1. work across world Englishes and an extensive range of other languages;
      2. a rich commitment to interdisciplinarity;
      3. a strong emphasis on literary criticism, history and theory;
      4. cross-cutting research addressing big questions that take in multiple periods,
          regions, languages, media and disciplines.

  We defined two further strategic aims:
      1. to extend the range and depth of our collaborations with non-academic external
          partners;
      2. to extend our interdisciplinarity through collaboration with social, natural and
          computer sciences in order to invest in risk-taking research which opens up new
          socially, politically and culturally engaged fields.

 Since 2014, we have further developed our strategy, aiming:
    • to increase the diversity and inclusiveness of our research culture;
    • to take a significant public role through external engagement, and to develop research
        with social, cultural and economic impact locally, regionally, nationally and globally;
    • to generate greater research grant income from an expanded pool of funders;
    • to consolidate the vibrant, supportive qualities of our postgraduate research environment,
        and continue to attract research students of the highest standard;
    • to collaborate with other HE institutions, creating partnerships that shape the field.

 We have implemented these strategic aims by:
   • successfully recruiting and replacing staff in areas which sustain and encourage a
       diverse and inclusive research base and curriculum (1.7, 2.2, 2.6. 2.7);
   • creating an enabling environment including financial and administrative support for
       research school events; extended research leave for all staff on ART (Academic
       Research and Teaching) contracts (2.1); targeted research support for equipment, travel
       to archives, libraries and conferences (3.1); equitable workload allocation (2.1); and
       mentoring for staff at all levels (2.1);

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   emphasising the importance of impact and external engagement across the department
        by providing financial and practical support and mentoring for impact; targeting
        mechanisms for identifying and recording impact and engagement, and translating
        engagement into impact; working closely with the Faculty Research Support Team in
        York’s Humanities Research Centre (HRC) and the University’s External Relations team
        to communicate our research and create new audiences; reinforcing the standing of York
        English as a hub of creative and heritage activity (1.4, 2.4, 4);
    •   supporting research income generation through workload relief and pump-priming grants
        offered at department, faculty and university level, as well as extensive peer review and
        sharing of best practice (3.1);
    •   offering robust support for the supervision, mentoring and professionalisation of an
        increasingly international cohort of PhD researchers, while maximising the department’s
        success in securing funding for postgraduate research (2.6);
    •   influencing the direction of the subject, and the Arts and Humanities more generally
        through membership of national and international bodies and learned societies, as well
        as communicating through specialist and mainstream media (1.4 and 4).

 1.3 Achievements 2014-2020

 Our research achievements have delivered on our REF 2014 plans and evolving strategy
 through world-leading publications, social and cultural impact, and steadily increasing research
 income. Our emphasis on literary criticism, history and theory is sustained by our size and
 recruitment strategy (2.2). Research output has increased considerably since REF 2014 for
 which we returned 29 academic books from 36 FTE, including 21 monographs and 8 edited
 books and scholarly editions. In 2021, we are returning 25 monographs and 21 edited
 collections and editions.

 We more than doubled research income from £1.1m in the five years covered by REF 2014 to
 £2.8m in the seven years to July 2020 (3.1). PhD degrees awarded have increased from 77
 during the period 2008-14 to 126.8 FTE from August 2013 to July 2020 (2.6). Our achievements
 in external engagement and impact are shown in our ICSs and section 4.

 Research highlights since 2014 include:

 Work across world Englishes and other languages
   • securing a second round of Danish National Research Foundation funding for the
       international, interdisciplinary Centre for Medieval Literature (CML; Tyler, Jagot,
       Younge, and 6 PDRs);
   • influential work on colonial and postcolonial cultures and languages including outputs
       from Attridge, Attwell, Chambers, Elmarsafy, Watt and Westall;
   • monographs by Alexandrova and Morin addressing Joyce’s multilingualism and
       Beckett’s politics in French and English;
   • a leading international role in anglophone and francophone Irish Literature through high
       quality publications, international conferences and summer schools as well as long-term
       collaboration with the Irish Embassy in Britain (Alexandrova, Attridge, Campbell,
       Coulson, Haughton, Kelly, Morin, Radley, G Russell, Welsch).

 Interdisciplinary breadth and depth
     • major AHRC-funded interdisciplinary projects on the Mary Hamilton Papers,
         Remembering the Reformation, and The Works of Thomas Browne (Coulombeau,
         Cummings, Killeen);
     • cross-faculty interdisciplinary research collaborations in the areas of Medical Humanities
         (Hall), Complex Systems Theory with Mathematics, Linguistics and Computer Science
         (Walsh), Science (Killeen, with McLeish, Physics), Environmental Humanities
         (Sierhuis);



                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   research leadership within the interdisciplinary Leverhulme Centre for Anthropocene
        Biodiversity (Smith) (IES, 11);
    •   CModS and CNS collaborations including international projects on writing, performance
        and technology with colleagues in Theatre, Film, Television and Interactive Media,
        History, Music and Philosophy, e.g. radio pioneers (Morin) and Cold War Shakespeare
        (Sheen);
    •   collaboration with Ormrod (History) on Migration, underpinned by a focus on diversity in
        the Middle Ages; McDonald was CI on the AHRC-funded ‘England’s Immigrants 1330-
        1550’; Tyler and Younge collaborated In the British Academy conference and edited
        collection, ‘Aliens, Foreigners and Strangers in Medieval England, c. AD 500-1500’;
    •   expertise in women’s writing and visual cultures as well as material, print, and urban
        cultures grounded in collaborations with History, History of Art and Archaeology leading
        to mid-career BA fellowships for Major and Wigston Smith, and a Paul Mellon
        fellowship for Wigston Smith.

 Research with impact (see also 1.4 and 4)
    • creative and critical impact on film and theatre productions grounded in significant
       research discoveries (Buchanan - ICS, Bowen - ICS) (IES,12e);
    • schools and local engagement projects on eighteenth century theatre and objects, and
       Shakespeare in schools (Mee, G Russell, Wigston Smith, Chambers - ICS);
    • collaborations with publishers, museums, libraries, arts organisations and academics in
       Bangladesh, China, Pakistan, South Africa, Uganda and the United States (Asciuto,
       Attwell - ICS, Bowen, Chambers, Morin).
    • extensive collaboration with regional history and tourism (4.1; Buchanan - ICS)

 Cross-cutting research and collaborative working
    • the establishment of Thin Ice Press (Smith, Welsch), supported by £100,000+ of internal
        funding, and combining theoretical and practice-led research into historical letterpress
        printing and contemporary small- and fine press publishing; work in book history crosses
        schools (Clarke, James-Maddocks, Mee, Raisch, G Russell, Zeldenrust);
    • extensive interests in material culture, embodiment and objects, shared across schools
        by Townend and Younge, Hunt and Smith, Wigston Smith and G Russell, Kingston-
        Reese and Morin;
    • developments in Environmental and Medical Humanities, including work by
        Campopiano and Younge, Sierhuis, Fairclough, Mee, Hall and Westall;
    • the AHRC-funded network, ‘Imagining Jerusalem, 1099 to the Present Day’ (2013-16)
        run by colleagues from all four schools (Bernard, Campopiano, Smith and Watt), with a
        wide international membership.

 We have created capacity in Creative Writing, with the appointments of Capildeo,
 Coulombeau, and Welsch, and the publication of 9 creative works, including poetry and an
 adapted film screenplay. We are proud to have supported research monographs from ECRs
 (Alexandrova, Kingston-Reese, Roche, Welsch, Zeldenrust) and to have hosted 2
 Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships (James-Maddocks, Zeldenrust) and secured a third
 starting in September 2020, as well as 8 British Academy and Leverhulme fellowships (Attwell,
 Campbell, Chambers, Cummings, Major, Mee, Smith, Wigston Smith).

 1.4 Enabling Impact

 Our Impact Strategy enables all colleagues to engage publics and beneficiaries and create
 impact. The department has a designated Impact Officer who coordinates consultations around
 projects and funding applications, as well as regular reporting, staff meetings, away days, and
 workshops. Mentors and Performance Reviewers discuss current and prospective impact with
 mentees. Thin Ice Press represents a major investment in impact infrastructure.




                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department performed strongly in impact in REF 2014 but recognized the need to better
 support the leads and fully embed impact. As a result, ICS writers received workload relief and
 we created the role of Impact Officer. Dedicated staff in the HRC enable the impact of
 Humanities research at York including from postgraduates and ECRs. The HRC facilitates
 interdisciplinary projects, offers information about impact-inclusive grants and assists in
 identifying, establishing and managing external partnerships in the media, heritage, conservation
 and cultural industries. Faculty Impact Managers and the Impact Administrator provide
 overarching and individualised support for impact, and help individuals and research groups with
 planning, identifying, and evidencing impact in research projects. They support internal and
 external impact-related grant applications and the development of ICSs. English was given
 targeted support for seven ICSs for the current REF, from which we selected four. As well as
 benefitting from departmental and University funding support, ICS writers and research projects
 with extensive impact programmes secured major external grants (Attwell, Chambers,
 Cummings, Mee, Wigston Smith and, in REF 2014, Killeen and Smith).

 Colleagues have access to multiple sources of support for impact and external engagement.
 They can apply for up to £1500 from the departmental Impact and Research Income Pump
 Priming Fund, on a flexible basis. In addition, the Faculty of Arts and Humanities administers the
 York Impact Accelerator Fund (YIAF), making annual awards in support of longer-term strategic
 impact (IES, 50). The University Research Champions offer targeted funding aimed at pathways
 to impact. Taken together this support has significantly advanced our strategic commitment to
 an increased public role, and to developing research with social, cultural and economic impact,
 detailed further in section 4.

 We have resisted a prescriptive approach to impact, and this has enabled the diverse and
 responsive activities and approaches evidenced in our submitted ICSs. Our ICSs showcase the
 range of our impact activities and our determination to reach diverse audiences locally,
 nationally and internationally. All four selected ICSs illustrate our focus on creating and
 sustaining partnerships and our investment in the mature development of impact over time.

 1.5 Research Integrity

 The Department is compliant with the ethical, legal and professional frameworks appropriate to
 the discipline, including the UUK Concordat to Support Research Integrity. Research ethics and
 integrity is overseen at faculty level by the Arts and Humanities Ethics Committee (AHEC), and
 the department is represented on this committee. Staff induction includes an introduction to the
 AHEC and the University’s codes on Research Integrity and Practice and Principles for Good
 Ethical Governance (IES, 14). All PhD students undertake an online research integrity tutorial.
 PhD supervisors are responsible for ensuring students have a clear understanding of
 appropriate practice.

 1.6 Open Research

 We are committed to developing an open research environment. We subscribe to the practice
 and principles of the University’s ‘Statement on Open Research’ (IES 15-17) and work with the
 Library’s Open Research Support Team to ensure that Data Management Plans submitted as
 part of funding applications ensure that research and research data is accessible to a wide
 audience. Our departmental OA strategy encourages staff to:

    ●   make chapters in edited collections available open access, where publishers allow;
    ●   target publications which promote green OA;
    ●   explore OA options for monograph publication;
    ●   ensure that OA publishing fees are built into grant applications.

 Responsibility for the Department’s commitments to open research and research integrity are
 managed by the Department Research Committee (DRC). Staff have been trained in


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 requirements for Open Access deposit for REF 2021 by colleagues from the University Library
 and York Open Access team.

 1.7 Future Aims and Strategy

 Over the next five years, we will:
    • build on our recent success in diversifying our staff base (including two appointments
        made in April 2020 and commencing in August and September 2020) to strengthen our
        new capacity in Black British writing and cinema, Nollywood and Ghanaian literature;
        further diversify our staff and PGR cohort; and develop our commitment to inclusivity and
        representation both in our research environment and in the resulting research (2.2, 2.6,
        2.7);
    • continue to develop interdisciplinary research and partnerships with IRCs and the wider
        academic community;
    • expand our international partnerships in order to promote research excellence, and
        further internationalise postgraduate research and research income (2.6);
    • develop our research and impact strategy to take up the challenge of the University’s
        new strategic commitment to the ‘public good’ (IES, 4,18), demonstrating the capacity of
        literary study to create change through civic leadership, community well-being and
        regional and international economic and cultural impact;
    • develop our policy on open research in the light of changing national and international
        contexts.

 2. People

 2.1 Staff Development

 Staff development is enabled by a combination of mentoring and formal review, backed up by
 financial support for research and training, and a transparent, encouraging promotions process.
 All staff have a mentor, who receives workload credit for support across the year, and
 encourages development through advising on research plans, outputs and aspirations, reading
 work and peer-reviewing funding applications. In 2018, we introduced the option of ‘reverse
 mentoring’: colleagues can request mentors from across the department, including from Early
 Career Academics. Staff are supported through probation (usually two years) by the Head of
 Department as well as their mentor, and subsequently have the opportunity for formal discussion
 of their research performance and plans with a senior colleague as part of their annual
 Performance and Development Review (PDR). The department has created its own statement
 of Research Expectations in accordance with University policy, setting out fair and flexible
 expectations of researchers according to grade (IES, 22).

 All colleagues, including research-only staff, have designated research funds. The department
 runs annual events to encourage colleagues to apply for research funding and develop
 collaborative projects. We have introduced work-in-progress workshops, in which readers,
 including colleagues from other departments, discuss draft work. We provide funding for speaker
 programmes, workshops, symposia and conferences (3.1). As part of their PDR, staff identify
 development and training needs, and are encouraged to target attendance at professional
 societies, summer schools and academic conferences. All staff and PGRs are supported and
 enabled to achieve research impact (1.2, 1.4).

 Until summer 2018, all staff on ART contracts were entitled to apply for one term’s research
 leave in seven. This has been replaced with a scheme which offers two terms in twelve in order
 to allow staff the opportunity to pursue large-scale, ambitious projects. As part of the application
 process, DRC ensures that staff plan to originate or advance research funding applications and
 develop the impact of their research. DRC evaluates applications and offers guidance,
 supported by an interim mentor meeting; the committee also evaluates research leave reports.
 In 2017 the Department implemented a new Workload Allocation Model in which research time


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 was integrated into workload for ART staff, and scholarship hours were allocated to teaching
 and scholarship staff. Workload credit for PGR supervision was increased.

 The Department has implemented the UUK Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers: all research-only staff are invited to departmental meetings, including research-
 away days; included in Departmental circulation lists; assigned a research mentor; have time
 and a personal allowance to further their research; and participate in the annual Performance
 and Development Review process. One researcher sits on the Departmental Research
 Committee and research staff are represented on the Race and Representation Working Group.
 All staff with responsibility for research become members of a research school and one or more
 of the IRCs.

 2.2 Staffing and Recruitment Strategy

 Our staffing strategy is to sustain our international research excellence, built on ground-breaking
 publications, external engagement and impact, external grant capture, and excellent PGR
 supervision, and to recruit researchers and teachers working at the highest level who represent
 the diversity of contemporary Britain.

 We have an active policy of international as well as national recruitment. Our staff comprises
 eleven nationalities. Recent appointments include scholars from the US and Canada (Wigston
 Smith, Raisch) and the securing of a University Inspirational Research Chair (G. Russell IES,
 20) formerly based in Australia. Our main focus since 2014 has been on the recruitment of
 talented early career academics, with appointments in the fields of palaeography (James-
 Maddocks), Old English (Younge), fiction (Radley, Kingston-Reese, D Russell, Roche),
 poetry (Asciuto) and Women’s Studies (Alexandrova-Isgate). We have developed strategic
 capacity in the Creative Industries and Creative Writing (Welsch, Capildeo) and the Global
 Middle Ages (Jagot). An emphasis on internal promotions ensures we retain appropriate levels
 of senior staff, and are able to engage in effective succession planning.

 The department has adopted a strategy to ensure greater diversity among its staff, support
 career progression, and encourage promotion applications across all groups (2.5, 2.7). We have
 developed our aims to encourage equality of appointment and career paths in terms of a range
 of protected characteristics, including race and ethnicity, sexuality, disability and class (2.7). We
 have drawn on best practice to encourage applications from BAME candidates; the success of
 this strategy is evidenced in the recent appointment of four Research and ART staff from BAME
 backgrounds, three on open contracts.

 We are committed to fair and appropriate contracts: in the current REF period, we supported two
 colleagues appointed on fixed-term Teaching and Scholarship contracts in moving to open ART
 contracts and converted two fixed-term ART contracts to open contracts. Our policy is to create
 1FTE rather than fractional fixed-term contracts (with flexibility around part-time working, see
 2.7).

 2.3 Early Career Researchers

 All newly-appointed lecturers receive a full induction and serve a probationary period, supported
 by regular meetings with their HoD and mentor. They are given a reduced teaching workload
 (25% reduction in year one; 20% in year two) and discuss expectations appropriate to their
 career stage. ECR research is supported by mentorship and through full inclusion within schools
 and IRCs. A professorial colleague leads an ECR forum which meets monthly to read work and
 share advice about publications, funding, collaborations and career choices. ECRs on fixed-term
 contracts are offered the same opportunities and encouraged to take up mentoring and internal
 funding.

 The department encourages applications for postdoctoral fellowships and visiting research
 positions and provides extensive advice on and support for career development. From 2020, the

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University’s Fellowships Committee has provided match funding for fellowships funded by
 charities including the Leverhulme Trust and the Wellcome Trust (IES, 20). From 2018/19 the
 Departmental Management Team agreed to underwrite applications to Leverhulme ECFs
 (subsequently also supported by the University’s Fellowships committee). James-Maddocks
 spent the last funded year of her Leverhulme with us before taking up a lectureship and two
 applications were successful in the 2019 and 2020 competitions, including Zeldenrust. CMS
 and CML have hosted eleven ECFs since 2014; in addition, one Postdoctoral Fellow (Wallace)
 has been attached to Researching the Reformation, and one 0.5FTE Postdoctoral Fellow
 (Temple) was funded by the MHRA to work with Killeen on his edition of Browne.

 The success of our ECFs in obtaining further employment include five who have secured jobs in
 other institutions (Cambridge, Surrey, Southern Denmark, Goldsmiths, Digital Repository
 of Ireland). Two former CML ECFs have been appointed to full-time lectureships in York
 (Younge and Jagot) (see 2.6 for PGR destinations).

 2.4 Exchanges between Academia, Business and Industry, and Third Sector Bodies

 With members from publishing and media, the gaming industry and heritage organisations, our
 Departmental Advisory Board was established in 2014 to facilitate knowledge of the external
 environment and partnerships with non-HEI organizations. The Department offers pump priming
 funds to bring academics together with non-academic partners. The HRC’s Impact accelerator
 and the University’s HEIF fund are increasingly used by staff to meet with potential collaborators
 and develop research with impact. More information about these activities is provided in section
 4. The appointment of Welsch (2016) was part of a strategic initiative to develop our Creative
 Industries provision and create new links with industry and third sector bodies. Key partnerships
 in this area include with New Writing North, Saraband and the National Trust.

 2.5 Recognising and Rewarding Staff

 The Department supports staff in achieving recognition through the promotions process. Since
 2014, 2 female and 1 male colleagues have been promoted to Lecturer; 6 female and 2 male
 colleagues to Senior Lecturer; 1 female colleague to Reader, and 4 female and 5 male
 colleagues to Professor. Our Workloads Model incentivises research through credit for all
 research-related citizenship roles, ICS authorship and external funding applications. The
 Department shares news of staff success through University, local and national media and is an
 active participant in the HRC’s annual research celebration. The Department has successfully
 submitted two ART staff and two members of Professional Support staff with core responsibility
 for research and graduate students for the University’s Rewarding Excellence scheme. We have
 implemented a departmental ‘Making the Difference’ rewards scheme in line with University
 guidance.

 2.6 Research Students

 The department aims:

    1.   to attract national and international students of the highest quality;
    2.   to sustain our capacity to provide excellent supervision and training for all students;
    3.   to expand access to doctoral study for under-represented groups;
    4.   to produce high quality postgraduate research with international significance and reach.

 PhD supervision and the implementation of research training and support have comprised one
 of the biggest growth areas for the department since REF 2014. We have increased research
 student numbers considerably. In the five-year period 2007/8-2013 we awarded 77 PhDs.
 Between the 2013/14 academic year and 2019/20 we awarded 126.8 FTE PhDs. We introduced
 a PhD with Creative Writing in 2019 which has recruited high-calibre applicants. Interdisciplinary
 PGRs are co-supervised by members of other departments including History, Archaeology, and


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 History of Art. We have a long history of co-supervision with CWS and mature co-supervisory
 arrangements with the Universities of Leeds and Sheffield and third sector partners.

 PGRs are supervised by an expert in their research area. Colleagues who have not supervised
 a PhD to completion are required to co-supervise with an experienced member of staff and to
 complete the University’s ‘Being an Effective Supervisor’ tutorial (IES, 32). Supervisions are
 organised responsively, generally every 2-4 weeks, and records retained in Skillsforge, the
 University’s online platform for managing the student journey.

 For students who received their PhDs between 2013/14 and 2019/20, 89% submitted within four
 years. The department delivers these excellent outcomes via doctoral research training and
 development via an induction programme, a year-long Graduate Research Student Training
 Programme, a system of Thesis Advisory Panels (TAPs), and twice-termly, student-led Work in
 Progress sessions. The University has implemented a system of Progression Reviews for all
 PGRs, with a departmental panel maintaining oversight of the process (IES, 31). Further
 professional development is delivered via a teaching shadowing scheme, whereby all
 postgraduates who teach follow a member of full-time staff in seminars for a term and have the
 opportunity to lead part of a session. We have introduced a GTA coordinator who offers
 extensive training and support to all GTAs. PGRs benefit from University-wide training in support
 of teaching, publications, professionalization, and careers (IES, 32). We have rebranded our
 annual postgraduate conference as a PhD Festival, including support for wellbeing and
 community.

 Since 2014, Home and EU students have been able to apply for AHRC funding via the White
 Rose College of the Arts and Humanities (WRoCAH), as well as studentships aimed at
 Humanities PGRs in research-led universities funded by the Wolfson Foundation. The WRoCAH
 Doctoral Training Partnership has been established in collaboration with the Universities of
 Leeds and Sheffield. It was the biggest AHRC-funded consortium in the UK in its first iteration
 and has been awarded funding for five more cohorts of students from October 2019, totalling
 £14.2m. WRoCAH offers training in research, employability, knowledge exchange, and
 internationalisation, as well as conferences and three annual colloquia. Fiercely competitive,
 WRoCAH funding is generous for research costs, archive visits, and conference attendance. It
 has international training collaborations with the Universities of Aarhus and Utrecht.

 Thirty-one students were awarded AHRC/WRoCAH studentships between 2014 and 2020. We
 have achieved yearly success in Wolfson Foundation-funded studentships, with four since 2014,
 and a further ten co-supervised in CMS. We are jointly the recipient of the largest number of
 WRoCAH awards in the consortium, and the largest number of Wolfson PhD studentships in the
 York Faculty of Arts and Humanities. We have been successful in funding students through
 WRoCAH Collaborative Doctoral Awards and interdisciplinary studentships awarded through the
 White Rose consortium of Universities, co-supervising with the Universities of Leeds and
 Sheffield. Funding for Collaborative Doctoral Awards has led to English PhDs working with some
 of WRoCAH’s 24 core external partners, including the British Library, V&A and the National
 Trust. International students have an excellent record in securing the University’s international
 scholarships. The Department provided a fee waiver to a student who was awarded the Acton-
 Goodman Scholarship, and is currently seeking asylum, part of our commitment to inclusivity
 and access.

 All research students are members of relevant schools and IRCs. They have dedicated study
 space in the King’s Manor and HRC (3.3.1) and, in addition to running reading groups and
 research projects, are involved in a wide range of research and teaching provision. PGR
 students in English can avail themselves of funding of up £300 per year from the department’s
 Graduate Research Support Fund and further support from the Leavis Fund. Our students are
 members of the organising committee for the WRoCAH annual conference, and we support a
 wide range of PGR-led conferences, workshops and events.



                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 A number of students who received their PhDs after 2014 have successfully pursued research
 and academic careers. These include: Alexandrova (York), Allitt (Leeds, Manchester) Alonso
 (Trinity, Dublin), Arnavas (Tartu), Battersby (Trinity Dublin, Bristol), Bell (Leeds), Bjerke (Oslo)
 Boast (Warwick, UCD), Boorman (York), Burdett (Warwick), Coulombeau (Cardiff, York);
 Dutta (Dhaka), Girdwood (Edinburgh), Gunn (UCL, Oxford), James-Maddocks (York),
 Karmakar (Rhodes University), Mercer (Cardiff); Milka (Adelaide), O’Hanlon (Leeds,
 Maynooth), Reynolds (York, St Andrews), Saldivar (Modelo), Santana (Universidad Nacional
 Autónoma), Scobie (Oxford), Swann (Tennessee, Cambridge, Durham), Suthren (Cambridge),
 Quin (Dublin, Birmingham), Wharton (Göttingen), Wood (Leicester).

 The next phase of strategic development is to recruit and support further talented overseas
 students. We have introduced a distance-learning PhD and are creating a 3+1 integrated PhD
 programme involving foundation modules through our PGT programmes.

 2.7 Equality and Diversity

 The department has made much progress in promoting a plural and international intellectual
 culture. We have continued to diversify our research in terms of sexuality, race and class
 through recent appointments, publications and external engagement activities: for example,
 Roche has published an important monograph on lesbian fiction; research on Arabic cultures in
 CMS has been developed by Jagot. New developments include the appointment in 2020 of
 prize-winning poet Capildeo, and recruitment for Autumn 2020 to two further lectureships in
 Black British writing and cinema. Three early career colleagues (Boorman, Jagot, Kingston-
 Reese) have launched a University-wide decolonising network, open to academics, professional
 support staff and students.

 The Department has a longstanding commitment to gender equality. We successfully applied for
 a Bronze Athena SWAN award in 2018 and are working towards our application for a Silver
 award. Actions include creating a supportive environment for female students to apply for PGT
 and PGR study, promotions support, ensuring the gender balance of our events and speaker
 series, and working towards equality in staff and student recruitment. We welcome the
 University’s commitment through its 2018-22 Athena SWAN Action Plan (IES, 35-37) to redress
 the gender pay gap. At the time of REF 2014 we had equal numbers of male and female staff at
 professorial level. A combination of retirement and colleagues moving to other positions has
 altered this balance (currently 8.1 FTE male professors and 5 FTE female professors). We are
 redressing this imbalance through targeted promotions support and other means, as for instance
 through the appointment of a female Vice-Chancellor’s Inspirational Research Chair in
 September 2018.

 A professorial committee meets in advance of each promotions round to encourage colleagues
 in applying for promotion. This committee offers feedback on all applications prior to submission.
 The faculty and university run events on applying for promotion, including events targeted
 specifically at female staff, and have adopted a proactive stance to the promotion of colleagues
 from under-represented backgrounds.

 The department participates in the University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion strategy (IES,
 35-37). All colleagues involved with recruitment must take University-provided Equality and
 Diversity Training. In addition, specialist training is compulsory for those involved with making
 decisions about REF (HoD, Chair of Research Committee, members of University Research
 Committee). Through the workloads model, we review the gender balance of staff in research-
 related leadership roles and scrutinise the research time available to male and female
 colleagues at all levels.

 Our research leave policy is transparent and fair, with all ART staff invited to apply for 2
 consecutive terms of leave every 4 years. In 2014-2020 all applications were approved. We
 have supported colleagues’ applications for career breaks and unpaid leave. All staff are


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 informed of part-time and parental leave arrangements and can request timetable adjustments
 to meet caring responsibilities. Colleagues have benefitted from: flexible working hours including
 for parents and carers, part-time working, reasonable adjustments to workload for illness, equal
 access to research leave regardless of proportion of FTE, and support for staff returning to work
 after parental or other leave. We work closely with Occupational Health to support staff. Staff are
 permitted to reduce their contract and return to a full-time contract at a later date, and can use
 their research allowance towards accommodation for family members in order to attend
 conferences and events. We have a family-friendly policy in relation to departmental social
 events as well as the timing of research events.

 We are committed to the wellbeing of staff. We review workloads regularly (termly in committee
 and annually at Board of Studies) and share information and resources on managing ill-health
 and sickness, the employee assistance scheme, and mental health and wellbeing resources for
 staff. In 2019, we introduced wellbeing activities and resources as part of our PGR annual
 conference.

 In line with the University of York’s Code of Practice for REF 2021, we have undertaken regular
 equality impact assessments during the process of selecting outputs and ICSs, analysing by
 type the outputs produced by male and female colleagues, and ensuring gender parity in our
 ICS submission.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income and Finance

 Our research funding strategy, designed to increase the scale and quality of our research grant
 applications and achieve a higher success rate in securing large and long-term grants, has
 borne fruit: in this REF period we have more than doubled our grant income. Between January
 2014 and July 2020 we made 105 funding applications as PI or CI and were awarded 24, a
 success rate of 23%. In REF 2014 (from 2007/8 to end 2013) we received £1.1m in research
 funding, an increase from £800k in RAE 2008, itself a 61% increase from RAE 2004. Between
 2013/14 and July 2020 we received £2.76m. Our average annual research funding between
 2015/16 and 2019/20 was £406,097 and external research funding per FTE was £9.2k, up from
 £8k in REF 2014, higher than the average of £9k (HESA data).

 We encourage colleagues at all career stages to submit grant applications and seek funding for
 collaborative projects, resulting in the award of 9 Leverhulme and British Academy research
 fellowships from 2014-2020. Cummings has been awarded a Leverhulme Major Research
 Fellowship for 2020-23 and Wigston Smith and Mee have secured Mellon and British Academy
 fellowships. Interdisciplinary funding beyond the Humanities is represented by an award from
 the Academy of Medical Sciences (Hall). The single biggest research grant held by the
 department is the Centre for Medieval Literature, funded by the Danish National Research
 Foundation with Tyler as CI and the University of Southern Denmark as partners. CML is in its
 second iteration with a total award of £7.37 million for 2012-2017 (£4.28 million) and 2018-2021
 (£3.09 million).

 The department is allocated approximately one sixth of its overall income from the University as
 its share of QR funds. It sets aside over £50,000 annually from its operational budget for internal
 funding to support research. This is allocated by the DRC. Lecturers receive an annual
 allowance of £900 down to £800 for professors. Typical costs are for archive trips, conferences
 and expensive research items such as scholarly editions or rare books. All staff can apply to the
 International Conference Fund, with awards made competitively and capped at £1000 per
 person every two years.

 Departmental research pump-priming funds are available up to a value of £1,500 for projects
 leading to major grant applications or pathways to impact. All staff are encouraged to apply to
 the Research Priming Fund and York Impact Accelerator Fund which are administered

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 competitively at University and Faculty level. Research Champion funds are thematically
 targeted at institutional research themes (IES, 10): as well as achieving funding for Thin Ice
 Press and a Writer in Residence, we have, for instance, been successful in securing funding for
 a preliminary event on ‘Affects in History’ (Kingston-Reese, Fairclough) from the Culture and
 Communication and Creativity Research Champions. Our departmental Leavis Fund offers
 support for research, which most often takes the form of funding for publication projects (e.g.
 image costs and indexing). This fund is also open to students, including PGRs (cf. 2.6).

 3.2 Research Management and Support

 The DRC meets termly and organises an annual Research Away Day and events including
 funding workshops. The DRC consists of a Chair, the HoD, Chair of Graduate Research, Impact
 Officer and the Chairs of all four Schools. From 2018/19 early career researchers were invited to
 sit on this committee. DRC administers department research funding for international
 conferences, research grants, and impact pump-priming. The REF Steering Group is a sub-
 committee, which reports to every meeting.

 The DRC creates a collegial research culture. It receives and disseminates reports from the
 Research Schools with the aim of promoting good practice and innovation. DRC produces an
 Annual Department Research Report (ADRR) which captures the multidimensional research
 achievements of the department and shares them with the wider community via University
 Research Committee (IES, 9), who respond with constructive and supportive feedback. DRC
 monitors research strategy and performance, acts as a conduit for targeted research funding
 and coordinates and implements a consistent research strategy and policies, informed by the
 four schools (see also 1.1, 1.2).

 The department provides dedicated administrative support to the DRC, and for managing
 research budgets and expenditure. Larger grant bids and costings are supported through the
 facilities and expertise of the Faculty Research Team in the HRC as well as the University’s
 Research Grants Operations (RGO) office. Our internal system of peer review for grant
 applications improves the quality and success of applications through contributions from the
 HoD, Chair of DRC, Chairs of Research Schools and staff members with relevant expertise.
 Expertise at Faculty level, including the HRC team, the Faculty Research Manager and the
 Associate Dean for Research, further enhances our capacity to submit high quality, ambitious
 grant applications.

 The HoD sits on the Board of the four main IRCs, which are overseen by the Faculty Dean and
 Associate Dean for Research and funded by their constituent departments. The Directorships
 rotate between departments; within the current REF period, colleagues from English have been
 Directors of each IRC. The IRCs have dedicated administrative support.

 3.3 Facilities and Support

 The HRC is located in the purpose-built Berrick Saul Building, which celebrated its tenth
 anniversary in 2019. English had a leading role in the establishment of the HRC, demonstrating
 our long-term commitment to interdisciplinary research and to fostering a thriving research
 community. The late Professor Jane Moody was its inaugural Director, a role subsequently
 taken by Buchanan as Faculty Associate Dean for Research, then Dean from 2017-2019. The
 HRC offers practical, administrative and strategic support. Its research community comprises
 nearly 300 academic and research staff and over 900 postgraduates from eight academic
 departments. Researchers from across the faculty, both academics and postgraduates, devise
 and deliver research projects for academic and non-academic communities within this
 interdisciplinary environment.

 English is supported strategically by the University and the Faculty of Arts and Humanities;
 specialist research support is provided by the staff of the HRC. This support is delivered by a
 Research Development Manager, Senior Research Coordinator, and Research Coordinator

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (appointed since previous REF) who help to identify appropriate funders and schemes and
 advise on funder regulations and guidelines. Finance staff advise on internal requirements for
 submission of grant applications, cost proposals and ensure alignment with funder regulations
 regarding inflation, full economic costing, etc. as well as University financial regulations. HRC
 staff give access to previous successful applications, review draft proposals and work with
 Research Grants and Contracts, departments and PIs to set up successful awards. A dedicated
 staff member provides post-award support, offering kick-off meetings with PIs and Department
 Managers and providing budget updates to PIs at milestone points. The significant resources
 and guidance available through these routes have contributed directly to our increased research
 income, fostered interdisciplinary collaboration, given focus and reach to our impact activities,
 and allowed for investment in facilities and staff (Thin Ice Press and our Writer in Residence).
 The Chair of DRC is a member of the Faculty Research Group, the Faculty Impact and
 Engagement Subgroup, and the University Research Forum

 3.4 University Library

 The University Library houses the Borthwick Institute for Archives, the UK’s largest record office
 outside London. It gives generous access to resources including databases through major online
 providers and publishers. Library staff work closely with the department on issues relating to
 Open Access, both operational and strategic, taking a leading institutional role in developing
 Open Research in accordance with the principles of Plan S. The library is working to expand and
 develop its specialist holdings, including the recent acquisition of the Petyt Collection, an
 important historical collection. The University is closely affiliated with the York Minster Library,
 the UK’s largest Cathedral library, for which it provides staffing and other support. The Library
 runs a weekly mini-bus service to the British Library at Boston Spa, 15 miles from York.

 3.5 University Research Champions

 We benefit from projects brokered via the University’s interdisciplinary Research Champions,
 particularly the Champions associated with the research themes of ‘Creativity’, ‘Culture and
 Communication’ and ‘Justice and Equality’. The Champions are leaders in their disciplines who
 catalyse research collaborations, offering expertise, pump-priming funding and advice on
 research impact (IES, 4). Thin Ice Press has received extensive Research Champion support
 and the department was the beneficiary of a combination of Creativity and University Research
 Committee funding for our Writer in Residence, Capildeo.

 3.6 Postgraduate Facilities

 Our students have designated research space in King’s Manor, location of CMS and CECS, as
 well as the HRC and other campus facilities. The HRC provides workspaces for 126
 postgraduate students, and hot-desking for the rest of the postgraduate community, with access
 to social spaces, seminar rooms, and the Bowland Auditorium. HRC staff organise a
 postgraduate training programme, including sessions on writing and publishing, careers, and
 research ethics, and opportunities including collaborative interdisciplinary research grants, a
 poster competition, and public engagement experience. Its project grants encourage students to
 develop research initiatives, design and deliver activities (reading groups, symposia, exhibitions,
 schools, workshops, engagement projects, research showcases, conferences) and see
 themselves as contributing to the research community. The HRC supports third-year PhD
 students through the HRC Doctoral Fellowships Competition; completed PhDs can compete for
 HRC Post-Doctoral Fellowships which come with personal workspace, access to research
 support and a modest research grant.




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The Department of English and Related Literature collaborates within and beyond York to shape
 the direction of literary study, produce high-quality research, and engage critically and creatively
 with research users. Our public engagement activities are rooted in connections with diverse
 research beneficiaries and audiences. In support of our research strategy, collaborations are
 designed to lead to excellent research outputs, create meaningful impact, nourish
 interdisciplinary work, and support grant applications.

 4.1 Local Partnerships

 Our local collaborations contribute effectively to the City’s social, economic and cultural life. One
 of the UK’s leading tourist destinations, York welcomes over 6.9 million visitors each year, who
 contribute £564 million to the local economy. The City and region's rich heritage, from the Viking
 age to the University of York's key role in the post-war modernisation and expansion of the city,
 offer numerous opportunities for collaboration.

 Significant partnerships include Townend's involvement in the redesign of the Jorvik Viking
 Centre in 2009 and 2016-17. The emphasis of the 2016-17 re-fit on the linguistic and ethnic
 diversity of Viking Age York was directly influenced by Townend’s research. Townend and PhD
 student Gunn supplied linguistic and historical training for Jorvik staff and reenactors. Townend
 translated and recorded the script for the ‘virtual reality’ recreation of the Torksey Viking camp,
 part of the Yorkshire Museum’s 2017 exhibition ‘Viking: Rediscover the Legend’. This VR re-
 creation received extensive media coverage and was awarded the ‘Excellence in Media Arts’
 prize at the York Culture Awards 2017. Townend also collaborated with artists Karen Monid and
 Ross Ashton on their sound-and-light installation ‘Northern Lights’ for York Minster: it sold out on
 both of its runs in 2018 and 2019, with 25,000 paying attendees.

 Beyond the work described in her ICS, Buchanan was advisor and university liaison for the
 award-winning, multi-million pound Shakespeare Rose Theatre in 2018 and 2019. Buchanan
 and Smith wrote programme pieces, gave pre-show talks and workshops, discussed the project
 on BBC Breakfast and commented on it for national newspapers. With Cummings, they
 collaborated on the biennial York International Shakespeare Festival, a continuing partnership
 with community theatre organisation Parrabbola and York Theatre Royal. The Festival draws in
 numerous city, regional, national and international partners, and is a member of the European
 Shakespeare Festivals Network. Members of the department contribute to the University’s
 influential annual Festival of Ideas, YorkTalks and Public Lectures programme, with topics
 ranging from electricity (Fairclough) to creative masterclasses (Welsch) and a short film
 produced in partnership with Shandy Hall (Mee).

 Russell, Wigston Smith, and Mee have collaborated with Richmond’s Theatre Royal, Britain’s
 most complete Georgian playhouse, including a comprehensive teaching resource pack, and a
 workshop on ‘Sonic Theatre’ during which audiences experimented with booing, hissing,
 laughter and sound effects. Wigston Smith partnered with Fairfax House to create The Story of
 Things, a series of schools workshops and teacher resources, focused initially on Knavesmire
 Primary School. In 2018, she extended the programme to the Yorkshire network of Home
 Educators. Our schools work includes Chambers’ Leeds Meets Shakespeare, detailed in her
 ICS; and Coulombeau’s collaboration with the John Rylands Library for a schools project on
 letter writing.

 In July 2016, Mee and Wigston Smith created a salon experience for humanities scholars and
 museum curators at the V&A’s new European Galleries. Following the successful 2018 re-
 opening of York’s Mansion House, Wigston Smith and Mee recreated the salon as ‘The Art of
 Conversation’. The Mansion House hosted a production of The Rivals, produced by Wigston
 Smith, and the debut play from PhD student Perchard, Tales of a Fashionable Life, a queer
 cabaret retelling of Maria Edgeworth’s The Absentee. A salon at the Green Howards Museum in

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Richmond, part of GeorgeFest 2018, created a cross-over between historical houses and
 military history. The department collaborates closely with York’s flourishing Georgian Society,
 whose current president is emeritus professor Charles Martindale.
 Many local collaborations have regional and national dimensions. For example, Mee’s work has
 generated substantial interest among northern Philosophical Societies in the idea of a
 ‘Transpennine enlightenment’. A public lecture in April 2016 brought together, for the first time,
 members of the Newcastle Literary and Philosophical Society and the Yorkshire Philosophical
 Society, providing both with a new sense of their joint history. A spring 2018 exhibition on the
 ‘Hidden Women’ of the YPS, researched and co-curated by graduate student Campbell,
 revealed the role of women in the institution’s early years. Commemorating the Peterloo
 bicentennial, Fairclough and Mee held a one-day conference, and public-facing events, funded
 by the US-based Romantic Bicentennials. These events included interactive 'Beer and Ballads'
 performances and an interview with the eminent director Mike Leigh about Peterloo for the
 Festival of Ideas.

 4.2 National Collaborations and Networks

 Our national collaborations enable innovative interdisciplinary research, and emphasise
 knowledge exchange with library, archive and heritage professionals. A key example is
 Cummings’ leading role in a three-year collaboration with Cambridge University Library, York
 Minster Library and Lambeth Palace Library, as CI on ‘Remembering the Reformation’. The
 resulting exhibition is the most successful digital exhibition yet housed by the CUL and was
 accompanied by a display in the Great Hall at Lambeth Palace Library, attended by more than
 2000 visitors. The project team worked closely with curatorial staff at the V&A, Fitzwilliam
 Museum and National Archives and brought together academics and cathedral librarians and
 archivists in a two-day workshop organised in collaboration with CLAN (Cathedral Libraries and
 Archives Network) at York in June 2016.

 Sierhuis collaborated with partners at the University of Warwick, Warwickshire County Council
 and Warwick Castle to organise a 2018 Fulke Greville Festival, celebrating Greville’s literary and
 architectural legacies as part of her and Cummings’ research as the editors for volume 3 of the
 Oxford Edition of the Works of Fulke Greville. The AHRC-funded Oxford Works of Sir Thomas
 Browne represents a mature partnership between Killeen and colleagues at QMUL, and
 involves collaborations with colleagues in North Carolina, SUNY, Aix-en-Provence, the British
 Library, Oxford, Queen Mary, and Cambridge. Project activities included an exhibition and public
 lecture at the Royal College of Physicians, and partnerships with the Norwich Science Festival
 (2017), Huntington Library (2016), Norwich Millennium Forum, and Norwich Castle. Mooney
 held an AHRC follow-on grant to work with the London Metropolitan Archive: this involved
 extensive public engagement, a schools programme, and training the LMA guides on their
 collections.

 Our research collaborations help to shape emerging fields of study. Having received funding
 from York’s Wellcome Trust Centre for Chronic Diseases and Disorders for research into
 memory and consciousness in contemporary fiction and life writing, and a video installation on
 adolescent health, Hall was PI on two Wellcome Trust grants to support the Northern Network
 for Medical Humanities which fosters connections between universities, arts and health
 organisations in the north. In 2017, Hall was awarded a Springboard Fellowship by the Academy
 of Medical Sciences and the Wellcome Trust for her project, ‘Cultures of Care’ (2018-2021),
 working with Carers UK.

 4.3 International Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

 Collaboration is at the heart of our ambition to nurture innovative research with international
 reach, and achieve social and cultural impact through a renewed understanding of diverse
 cultural and literary heritages. This ethos is exemplified in Attwell’s ICS, which demonstrates
 how his collaboration with Amazwi, the South African Museum of Literature, has helped to define


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 its post-Apartheid direction, and how Attwell’s research continues to impact on South African
 public discourse and linguistic diversity.

 The CML represents a longstanding collaboration between colleagues at York (particularly
 Tyler, Younge) and the University of Southern Denmark. It has created a wide-ranging
 international, interdisciplinary and multilingual research network. With the University of Milan,
 CML founded an open access on-line journal, Interfaces: A Journal of Medieval European
 Literatures. It organizes numerous workshops, conferences, doctoral summer schools and
 collaborations with universities across Europe and North America. Jagot has spearheaded a
 collaboration with the David Collection (Copenhagen), which holds the most extensive collection
 of Islamic Art in Northern Europe. This interdisciplinary project, Shared Moveable Worlds, aims
 to write a new history of medieval world literature from the Silk Roads to Northern Europe.

 The Department has continued to consolidate its longstanding expertise in Irish literature from
 1700 to the present day into a formal research grouping (Alexandrova, Campbell, Coulson,
 Haughton, Kelly, Morin, Radley), consolidated by the appointment of G Russell in 2018, and
 hosting an Irish Research Council ‘Elevate’ research project (Nic Congail). Campbell was Chair
 of Council of the British Association for Irish Studies (2014-2018) and maintains links with the
 Embassy of Ireland in London and HE institutions in Ireland and the US. He was Director of the
 Yeats International Summer School from 2013 to 2019 and plays a prominent role in the network
 that produced Irish Literature in Transition, a seminal publishing event in Irish Literary Studies.
 The department hosted the International Association for Irish Literature conference in 2015.

 We have strong links with Australian institutions, including the University of Melbourne, the
 Australian National University, and the University of New South Wales. The relationship of
 CECS with the Enlightenment Romanticism Contemporary Culture research network at the
 University of Melbourne led to a joint CECS-ERRN postgraduate conference 'Distance' in
 August 2020. Fairclough held a fellowship on the History of Emotions project at Perth and
 Adelaide; Cummings and Sierhuis were invited fellows at CHE in Brisbane in 2015; and Mee
 was scheduled to take up a visiting fellowship at the ANU’s HRC in 2020. With colleagues in
 History, Mee and Smith collaborated with the Australian Research Centre of Excellence for the
 History of Emotions to organise ‘Powerful Emotions / Emotions and Power, c. 400-1850’, one of
 numerous major international conferences organised and hosted at York (e.g. the 2017 meeting
 of the British Association for Romantic Studies).

 The Department’s commitment to combining research excellence with impact is exemplified in
 the Shakespeare in the Making of Europe network (Sheen), with partners Utrecht, Munich and
 Lodz, funded by Nederlandse Organisatie voor Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek (2014-16). Sheen
 worked with the British Embassy in Vilnius for an exhibition on European Shakespeare at the
 Lithuanian Parliament (December 2016) and this has developed into a series of collaborations
 with Bulgarian, Greek and Lithuanian contacts, following public talks in Vilnius, Kaunas, Sofia,
 Blagoevgrad and Thessaloniki. In 2014-15 she was a Research Fellow at the Center for
 Advanced Studies at Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München and gave public talks at the
 Romanian Cultural Institute in London (November 2016) and The Shakespeare Library, LMU
 Munich (December 2014). Smith was Research Leader for Early Modern Conversions, a major
 SSHRC-Funded collaborative project based at McGill. Events included ‘Converting Sounds’,
 with the Guildhall School of Music and Drama (London) and Opera McGill, giving creative shape
 to a dramatic production and new opera.

 Our international research leadership is exemplified in Walsh’s roles as President of the
 Narrative Association and Director of the Narrative and Complex Systems Group, with members
 across the UK and Northern Europe, and in Coulson’s presidency of the Henry James Society.
 The Department is a member of The Dickens Project, a research consortium consisting of over
 40 colleges and universities from across the United States and overseas. Smith is Team Leader
 5 for the Centre for Anthropocene Biodiversity, a £10 million collaboration across 10 years
 between York, Australian National University, University of St Andrews and Université de
 Sherbrooke. The multi-lingual research of Clarke and Campopiano is based in longstanding

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research links with medieval studies in the University of Florence; Minta works and lectures
 annually on Byron in Greece.

 As with all our collaborations, our international networks are designed to engage cultural and
 heritage workers and make a difference to global and local understandings. As CI for
 Development Alternatives, leading the strand on ‘Art, Activism, Archive’, Morin directed the
 process of collecting texts for an artist’s book sculpted by Bangladeshi artist Shohrab Jahan,
 advised on copyright issues, and stimulated thinking about the relations between literature and
 the political imagination. The book dummy from this project brought together researchers from
 York’s Centre for Applied Human Rights with collaborators from Chittagong University Institute
 of Fine Arts, Bangladesh; Jog Art Space, Bangladesh; Makerere University School of
 Languages, Literature and Communication, Uganda; the Ugandan Women Writers Association
 Femrite. Campopiano, Smith (PI), and Watt collaborated with Bernard (now KCL) on the
 AHRC-funded ‘Imagining Jerusalem, c. 1099 to the Present Day’ with partners from Kent,
 SOAS, Manchester, Oxford, Freie Universitaet Berlin, Helsinki Collegium for Advanced Studies,
 Hebrew University, TCD, Concordia, KCL, Western Illinois University, Cambridge, Rider,
 Sussex, Oslo, Parma, Leeds, and British School of Rome. This collaboration closed with a
 heritage and engagement workshop in York, bringing together academics with curators from the
 Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Jewish Museum, Berlin and heritage activists from ARCH
 Jerusalem.

 Early Career Researchers are supported in international collaborations. Building on the
 Department’s mature Academic Visitors programme, which supports international researchers,
 with a strong emphasis on China, Asciuto participated in a British Academy funded workshop
 with the UK-China Humanities Alliance in Shanghai and secured follow-on funding for a project
 with Nan Zhang (Fudan) to facilitate further collaboration between ECRs. Raisch is a Senior
 Fellow in the Andrew W. Mellon Society of Fellows in Critical Bibliography, and organised an
 international network of junior scholars in the US and UK. Through a funded collaboration with
 the Bancroft Library (UC Berkeley) she created an online exhibition on early modern scholar-
 printers.

 4.3 Creative Contributions

 Our creative impact has accelerated notably in the final part of this REF period and represents a
 significant strategic achievement. Well-received public-facing masterclasses and mentoring from
 Capildeo, Welsch and Chambers have contributed to local and national creative practice.
 Creative collections support established and early career writers and ensure a public space for
 writers from under-represented backgrounds. These include Chambers’ Desi Delicacies, A
 Match Made in Heaven, and Storying Collections and Welsch and Lehóczky’s Wretched
 Strangers: Borders Movement Homes, which celebrates the contribution of non-UK-born writers
 to the UK and its poetic culture. Readings in support of the volume brought authors to a range of
 audiences; all proceeds were donated to refugee rights charities. Capildeo’s verse has won
 multiple awards, and their numerous collaborations include Light Site, an ongoing partnership
 with artist Andre Bagoo. ‘Writers at York’ brings high-profile contemporary creative writers and
 new voices to the University and City. Alongside his extensive theatre work, detailed in his ICS,
 Bowen’s research inspired composer Claire Roberts to a new composition (‘Strange and Wild /
 Remote and Unfamiliar’), whose first performance was at Leeds Minster, introduced by Bowen,
 as part of the 2018 Emily Brontë bicentenary.

 Thin Ice Press is a major research and impact collaboration, founded by Smith and Welsch in
 2018. The press has been written into pathways to impact by colleagues at Birmingham,
 Newcastle and Northumbria, as well as York. It has a lively public engagement programme. The
 press’s January 2019 launch, featuring pop-up talks and demonstrations, was accompanied by
 an exhibition bringing together leading contemporary printers and artists. Smith and Welsch
 collaborated with the Albion Press (Bath Spa University) on ‘Show of Hands’, a widely-viewed
 exhibition of letterpress printing featuring more than 80 contributors, cementing the Press’s role
 as a hub for contemporary letterpress printing and innovation. This has influenced further

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research, including McDonald on the fifteenth-century scribe and compiler Robert Thornton, in
 partnership with the North Yorkshire churches and villages he was associated with, which led to
 a creative collaboration with David Armes of Red Plate Press.

 4.4 Media contributions and coverage

 Colleagues’ research features in UK and international media, contributing to society through the
 dissemination of innovative findings. Roche’s research into Hughes’ poetic debt to Lowell made
 headlines in The Guardian and The World at One. Townend has delivered content for national
 broadcasters (Channel 4 and BBC Radio 4) and was the lead contributor (editorial input and
 broadcast interviews) to the Vikings episode in Melvyn Bragg’s major Radio 4 series The Matter
 of the North. Bowen, Major, Mee and Killeen have appeared on In Our Time. Killeen appeared
 as a panelist on BBC One’s The Big Questions debating the question, ‘Is there more truth in
 Shakespeare than the Bible?’ Cummings spoke on Radio 3’s ‘The Essay’ on Martin Luther,
 appeared in several radio programmes in connection with the Book of Common Prayer,
 including BBC Ulster and the Irish National radio network Newstalk, and gave public lectures,
 including the Auckland Palace Public Lecture (April 2016); The Stationers Company (April
 2016), and the Bradford Literature Festival (2017). Coulombeau and Hall were BBC Next
 Generation Thinkers. In 2014, Hall appeared in a BBC film, ‘Fear of the Feeble-minded’;
 Williams contributed to BBC 4’s The Private Life of Books in 2015; Kelly contributed to
 ‘Literature, Economics, and Animal Spirits' on BBC Radio 4; Campbell appeared on Newstalk
 (Ireland) to discuss Irish Literature in Transition; Bowen’s research discoveries related to
 Dickens’ marriage saw him appear across international media in 2019.

 Capildeo’s monthly reports for PN Review (2013-present) are essential reading for anyone
 interested in contemporary poetry. Coulombeau has written and presented programmes for
 BBC Radio 3 about marital naming, children’s names, children’s literature, and eighteenth-
 century culture. She devised and appeared on a six-part podcast series for The New Statesman
 and has written for BBC Arts, The Guardian, The Independent and the Huffington
 Post. Chambers blogs for the Huffington Post and is a literary columnist for Pakistan’s English-
 language daily newspaper Dawn and 3 Quarks Daily. She regularly participates in literary
 festivals, including Bradford, Ilkley and Karachi, and has appeared on BBC R4, British Muslim
 TV, Radio Asian Fever, BBC Radio Manchester, and The One Show, as well as advising on
 postcolonial Shakespeare for an episode of The Big Questions.

 4.5 Contributions to the research base

 In addition to our research leadership and extensive collaborations, we contribute to the
 research base through editorships and academic service. Our numerous contributions to journal
 and series editorships include the Journal of Victorian Culture (Broughton), Cambridge
 Quarterly (Wall, Williams) PN Review and Blackbox Manifold (Capildeo), Speculum: A Journal
 of Medieval Studies and Dumbarton Oaks Medieval Library (Tyler), Journal of Commonwealth
 Literature (Chambers), York Manuscripts and Early Print Studies of the York Medieval Press
 (James-Maddocks), Renaissance Studies (Killeen), ASAP/J (Kingston-Reese), Literatūra
 (Sheen), and Literature and History (Smith). Scholarly editions include Bowen’s Barchester
 Towers (OUP), Killeen’s Thomas Browne: 21st Century Authors, Townend’s editions of Skaldic
 poems, and Williams’ edition of Alice Goodman’s History is our Mother: Three Libretti.

 Six colleagues have served as members of the AHRC peer review college. Smith has been a
 member of the International Advisory Board for projects at Utrecht, funded by NWO, 2016-19,
 the University of Copenhagen, 2015-16, and the Universal Short-Title Catalogue (ongoing), and
 is a member of the University of Padua doctoral college. Cummings is a member (2019-22) of
 the Belgian National Research body (FWO) responsible for awarding post-doctoral awards and
 doctoral funding. Attridge and Cummings are Fellows of the British Academy.




                                                                                          Page 18
