Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Heriot-Watt University (HWU)

 Unit of Assessment:
 Sub-panel 32: Art and Design
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Research Unit Context & Structure
Established in 1883, the School of Textiles and Design (SoTD) is one of five Schools in the
University. SoTD is located in Galashiels in the Scottish Borders the heart of the textile industry in
the UK. Art and Design research at Heriot Watt University sits at the nexus of textile technologies
and sustainable design and practice. Our aim is to be leaders and innovators in the field of textile
technologies and practice-led design. Over the past five years, we have continued to be a leading
centre of research in these areas using the University’s global network to extend our activities
beyond the UK.
Our research has underpinned interdisciplinary innovation and rigorous scholarship and we have
contributed to international networks, conferences and academic publications. Our research
community includes doctoral and post-doctoral research assistants, and early career and
experienced researchers. Over the REF period we have continued to extend our industry
collaborations across the design and technology communities, e.g. Mirolink, GoreTex, Johnstons of
Elgin, The Harris Tweed Authority and Iron Ocean. We have widened our reach through international
networks e.g. the Association of European Textile Universities (AUTEX), ArcInTex (the European
design network) and the Materials Knowledge Transfer Network (KTN) and the E-Textiles network.

Research Strategy & Structure
Our ambition of research excellence has been guided by a set of core values and key principles:
    To undertake research that addresses significant global challenges with the aim of developing
     increased future environmental sustainability.
    To seek partnerships that can help to address complex interconnected challenges leading to
     genuine and beneficial impact on society and industry.
    To provide a supportive research community and encourage career development based on
     equality and diversity.
Research Themes
We continue to develop and extend the thematic areas described in our 2014 REF submission of
textile technologies and design. Across both areas, our research has focussed on health and well-
being applications, including environmental, ethical, and human-centred design. In addition,
researchers have explored the development of new textile materials and processes. Across the
research themes there is considerable crossover, tackling key challenges through applying both
science and social science methodologies informed by practice-led design approaches.
Textile Technology
Our theme of Textile Technology is centred on new advanced flexible materials with applications in
the health and security sectors (Macintyre, Malins, Stylios, Sun) working in collaboration with our
industry partners. Our research has been foundational to the development of the smart textiles
                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
industry. Led by Stylios, this group’s work was among the first to develop wearable sensors that
could be embedded into textiles for health monitoring purposes. Stylios’ research has led to
commercial development with Selex/Galileo, MiroLink, Ltd. and TrueTex of a smart vest for the
armed forces which contains an ECG to monitor heartrate.
The focus from REF 2014 on new textiles and processes research has continued to evolve around
Nano Textiles and has led to the unit being a leader in the new area of nano spraying for the infusion
of colour (Stylios).
In collaboration with The Moredun Institute, Scottish Royal Zoological Society and J&D Wilkie, Ltd.,
Macintyre developed ‘Bovine Bumbags’ in response to an identified need to improve animal and
staff welfare whilst gathering Cryptosporidium from infected calves to make live vaccines for the
Dairy and Beef farming industries. Macintyre has also pioneered the use of compression garments
used to treat conditions such as lipoedema and hypertrophic scarring, which affect millions of people
globally each year (Spentex, Therapist Support Laboratory Australia, Uriel, see Impact Case Study:
Pressure Garment Design Tool); additionally, we are one of two centres of excellence in the field of
medical compression products globally through collaboration with industry and health providers.
Another important area of the unit’s technical textile research, led by Sun, has focused on textiles
developed for use in extreme environments and under extreme conditions, such as body armour for
personal protection and offshore extreme cold survival garments. As part of this research, a
collaboration with the School of Engineering and Physical Sciences developed safety garments from
an ‘Offshore Survival Garment’ project which won the Offshore Achievement Awards ‘HSE
Innovation Award’ in March, 2019. This project was funded (£214,910) by the Oil & Gas Innovation
Centre (OGIC) and Dundee-based company Iron Ocean, Ltd. The results of this research led to the
development of an offshore survival system: ‘Centurion 3’, a three-layer upper body garment that
produces heat when immersed in cold water, designed to be worn under a conventional offshore
survival suit. Though delayed by COVID-19, this system also has shown potential application to
military and sport/leisure sectors and forms the basis of one of our impact case studies. Sun
continues to work with the U.K. government’s Defence and Security Accelerator DASA and the
Ministry of Defence, collaborating within the unit and with colleagues in the University’s Institutes of
Chemical Sciences (UoA B8), Photonics and Quantum Sciences (UoA B9) and Sensors, Signals
and Systems (UoA B12).
Design Theme
Within the Design Theme, our UoA explores 21st century Textiles and Fashion design with reference
to diversity, sustainability and making cultures for resilient communities (Coburn, Jaramillo,
Kalkreuter, Keith, le Guennec, Pitsaki, Quinn, Thomas). We have taken a critical examination of
the ethics of the Fashion Industry and have drawn upon the heritage of that industry to inform future
research. In addition, our research reflects upon the importance of practice within the Design
discipline, and how this is embedded within industry and future design (Coburn, Jaramillo,
Kalkreuter, le Guennec, Malins, Schenk).
Projects have involved working with partners both locally and internationally, funded by the Global
Challenge Research Fund (GCRF) and supported by our industry partners. For example, Johnstons
of Elgin helped to fund recent travel to Mongolia to study the cashmere supply chain (Thomas).
GCRF funding has also supported projects working with indigenous textile craft makers in Sri Lanka
and India and academic networks at leading institutions in these countries (Kalkreuter). Additionally,
within the design theme our researchers explore textile heritage and archival resources to inform
contemporary culture (Kalkreuter, le Guennec, Quinn), working with organizations such as the

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Bernat Klein Foundation, the Museum of Scotland and the new Great Tapestry of Scotland Visitors’
Centre to be opened in Galashiels in the spring of 2021.
Our Unit supports research around textile heritage, fashion ethics, and cultural anthropology by using
textile archives to inform contemporary practice (Quinn, le Guennec) Studies such as those
undertaken by Kalkreuter, with funding from the GCRF, have investigated capturing intangible
cultural heritage and investigating how extant making practices interface with 21st century design,
with a long-term aim of providing new, sustainable income sources for economically challenged
groups. Thomas’ work brings insights into how fibres from the goats of nomadic herders in Mongolia
are used in the luxury fashion industry and the importance of adopting an ethical code of practice for
the manufacturing of contemporary fashion. This work has also led to investigations into how the
value of contemporary fashion can be shifted to create a longer life for products.
We have formed a consortium of companies to share best practices for technologies to support
environmental improvements. As part of this initiative, we have facilitated knowledge transfer
workshops working with textile companies such as Johnstons of Elgin, a high-end specialist knitwear
company and Alpha Solway, Ltd., a large manufacturer of personal protective clothing. These
workshops are facilitated by the unit to generate initiatives that can be taken forward through
knowledge transfer partnerships and form the basis of ongoing collaborative research projects.
Strategic collaborations
Our Unit’s diverse group has successfully established collaborative networks supporting
interdisciplinarity. Examples include Malins’ work with the Open AAL project, which brings together
researchers including those at the University’s Assisted Living Lab and its Ageing Lab and seeks to
develop technologies to assist individuals with sensory impairments, using a co-design approach.
Our researchers’ collaborative, professional networks include those working with photonics and new
materials (Stylios), medical textiles (Macintyre), and craft (Kalkreuter, Keith, le Guennec, Quinn).
Our Unit actively supports interdisciplinary research and encourages collaborations between
schools, including the University’s Schools of Social Sciences, Engineering and Physical Sciences
and the Edinburgh Business School: for example, the successful collaborative research endeavour
between Sun and the School of Engineering and Physical Sciences entitled ‘Textile Waste Disposal
Through Thermo-Chemical Processing’ and funded by the Textiles Future Forum and Harris Tweed.
This project resulted in a global patent on the process (PCT/GB2018/052494), which has the
potential to be further developed with industry partners for the processing of other waste materials.
Impact Strategy
Our unit has initiated, led and delivered collaborative projects funded by the SFC, Interface, Horizon
2020, EPSRC, RSE, Commonwealth UK and the GCRF, worth a total of £2.15M. These projects
alone involved 26 companies, four UK universities (University of Edinburgh, Royal College of Art,
Napier University, Robert Gordon University) and multiple international Universities (University of
Kelaniya, Moratuwa University, University of Jaffna, all Sri Lanka; National Institute of Design and
Srishti Maipal Institute of Art, Design and Technology, India; University of Hannover Lower Saxony;
University of Tampere, Finland; North Carolina State University, USA; Shinshu University, and
Japan, to list a few). Our research has included the development of new fabrics leading to prototype
devices and technologies (Mirolink Ltd, Selex/Es). Beyond the UK, we are a founding member of the
Association of Universities for Textiles (Autex, http://autex.ugent.be) and have close research links
with other international institutions such as Shinshu (Japan), Clemson (USA), Age (Turkey), Gent
(Belgium), Hong Kong Polytechnic (Hong Kong).


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our Unit led the Textiles Future Forum (TFF), a £750,000 initiative funded by the Scottish Funding
Council (therefore ineligible for inclusion in REF4), and supported by Textiles Scotland, Scottish
Enterprise, Interface and Highlands and Islands Enterprise. This recognised this Unit’s leadership
role in textile innovation in Scotland. Part of the funding was for sub-projects requiring match-funding
from industry. These sub-projects were competitively awarded by an independent panel and the
successful projects from our Art and Design researchers included: Collagen Fibre with Devro
Scotland (Stylios, £51k), and Thermo-Chemical Processing of Wool with HWU’s School of
Engineering and Physical Sciences (Sun £50K) and the Harris Tweed Authority (£50K). In addition,
we were able to make connections between textiles companies and other disciplines at Heriot-Watt
for successful projects such as Textile Antennas and Electronic Sensors with J&D Wilkie, Ltd. and
Leonardo (Stylios, £50k with School of Engineering and Physical Sciences).
An additional industry-facing initiative has been awarded to Sun (£45k) over the period for a series
of Interface innovation vouchers. Through these projects the school supports micro businesses,
fosters partnerships, and provides experience for staff and post graduate researchers working with
the sector. Examples of these smaller projects have included: novel hot shave wraps (with LNX
Designs, Ltd.), supportive sports socks (with Amazox, Ltd.), reusable and highly absorbent multilayer
textiles (with Lilypads Group, Ltd.) and a wearable racket (McPlay, Ltd.).
In addition to textiles and fashion-focused projects, we actively encourage interdisciplinary research.
Our researchers are involved in collaborations both with other schools within the University and
externally through contributing to national and international networks. Examples include the Use-
Less consortium between the University of Hannover, Heriot-Watt University and Robert Gordon
University. This group is exploring different approaches to the challenges of sustainable Fashion
(Malins, Keith, Kalkreuter, le Guennec). ‘Distributed Capabilities’ funded by the Royal Society of
Edinburgh, includes in its network professional textile designers from across Scotland (Jaramillo).
We were a founding member of the Scottish Academy of Fashion, funded by the SFC and including
partners from all Scottish Art Schools. This stimulated new connections across the country which
continue to result in new projects.

Future Strategy
Covid-19 Impact Statement
Our researchers were quick to respond to the Covid-19 emergency. Stylios received funding from
the National Institute for Health Research (NIHS) to work on the development of protective face
mask technology, developing fabrics capable of filtering particle sizes smaller than those of the
Covid-19 virus (<90 nanometres), and our workshops were given over to the production of PPE.
Kalkreuter was able to adapt a GCRF project to an online project working with textile entrepreneurs
in India.
There have, however, been three significant areas of future impact:
    Staff have had to continue with full-time work whilst also doing full-time caring and childcare
     (including home schooling), significantly reducing their productivity. It is anticipated that this
     will have a medium-term effect on grant income, publications and impact.
    Staff meetings, CPD training and exchanges are currently only available online. This has had
     an impact on staff development, particularly our ECRs and PhD communities where face-to-
     face networking at this stage in their careers is paramount.
    The cancellation of lab-based experiments for a significant period has presented challenges
     to the career development of both our research associates and PhD students, although no-

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      cost extensions to research grants and funded extensions to PhD studentships have been
      applied to offset this impact. We anticipate that this will have a detrimental impact on the timing
      of PhD completions.
To mitigate the challenges created by Covid-19, our Unit and the University have implemented new
processes to support our research community; for example, we introduced an online thesis
submission and online viva process for doctoral students, which has proven to be effective, receiving
positive feedback from both students and examiners. The University also created dedicated web
pages containing relevant information in the form of FAQs for the PGRs and undertook the
monitoring of its PGRs to assess the ongoing and long-term impact of Covid-19.
The University offered funded extensions to its internally funded research students, replicating
UKRI’s policy. Our Unit supported students co/funded by other sponsors in approaching their funders
to request and justify additional funding, and the University has also established a Covid-19 Student
Emergency Support Fund.
Objectives for the Future
Excelling in research and enterprise with a focus on impact is one of five themes within the
University’s Strategy 2025. As part of this strategy the University will bring together interdisciplinary
groups of researchers and resources to form a number of new Global Research Institutes (GRIs).
Our unit will contribute to this strategy through the development of projects which connect to the
University’s key initiatives, taking advantage of the interdisciplinarity connections, collaborations and
facilities that support the existing projects discussed above. The University has identified five GRIs,
two of which already exist, and three which are currently in development. These include the National
Robotarium (robotics and artificial intelligence), the Lyell Centre (earth sciences research,
specifically the marine economy), Net Zero (carbon reduction and climate change), Medical
Technology (bringing together technologies for health and well-being), and a centre for Social
Inclusion. Our researchers will actively collaborate with colleagues within these GRIs.
The following table shows the relationship between the global challenge, key areas of focus for the
UoA, and the University’s corresponding GRI. Working in collaboration with these larger clusters of
researchers will increase our UoA’s research power, leading to greater levels of impact. The areas
of research are all supported by interdisciplinary research, either led by or contributed to by our
researchers.
                                  University-Wide                  School of Textiles and Design
  Global Challenge
                          Global Research Institute/s (GRI)              Research Focus
                         National Robotarium (existing)           UX & UI Design
 Health & Well-Being
                                                                  Medical Textiles
 – Healthy Aging         Medical Technology (planned)             Smart, Wearable Textiles
                                                                  Sustainable Entrepreneurialism,
                                                                  Co-Design / Design Management /
 Sustainability          Net Zero Carbon (planned)
                                                                  New Making Practices /
                                                                  Exploration of Heritage
                                                                  Sustainable Entrepreneurialism,
 Social Inclusion        Inclusive Society (planned)
                                                                  Co-Design / Design Management


As part of its forward strategy, our unit will continue to expand its capacity for interdisciplinary
research by, for example, bringing expertise in user experience design to support projects involving
                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
robotics (Human-Computer Interface design) or the creation of sensor-enriched textiles across a
number of applications, i.e. marine biology, medical garments, or sports textiles (Macintyre).
We aim to further build on the core strengths of our research base with the rationale of focusing on
global challenges. To facilitate this, we will grow our specialist expertise in advanced flexible
materials to support a new and emerging industry creating smart, technical textiles and new
materials whilst providing a focal point in the South of Scotland for this area of growing global
importance. Our focus will continue to be on the development of future technologies whilst seeking
to be environmentally responsible. This includes projects which look for alternative sources of
sustainable fibre, fibre to fibre recycling and exploring manufacturing processes that minimize impact
on the environment, all helping to reduce the environmental consequences of the traditional fashion
and textile industries. For example: the school has recently funded a newly established project,
through its James Watt scholarship fund, examining fibre shedding from textiles to help to minimise
the contamination caused by microplastics in the environment (Macintyre).
We will increase the focus of our research around key areas, all with an overarching theme of human-
centred sustainable design, wherever possible working in collaboration with other groups within and
outwith the University: for example, developing processes for the textile industry which reduce
carbon emissions or micro-plastic release into the environment.
We will maintain and increase our research capacity by ensuring that all new academic posts are
research active. This includes the creation of three Bicentenary Professorial chairs to be appointed
in 2021-22, representing a major investment in our future research and underpinning our
commitment to the expansion of our research community. These will be aligned with the University’s
strategy and drive even stronger collaborations between our Unit and other parts of the University.
The chairs will be in the following areas: advanced flexible materials, sustainable design, and virtual
design. Core to the rationale of these new posts is a focus on research designed to address global
challenges.

Research Governance
Research Management in our school is undertaken by the Director of Research (Malins), who
reports directly to the Head of School and the University’s Deputy Principal for Research and
Innovation. Research support is provided by the University’s Research Engagement Directorate
(RED) Team, supplemented by local, flexible 1 FTE administration on the Borders Campus.
We have a Unit Research Committee chaired by the Director of Research (Malins), which meets
each semester, of which all active researchers are members. The Committee enables all members
to be kept informed on the progress of funding applications, promotes attendance at academic
conferences and oversees the ethical review process, all of which contribute to a vibrant, inclusive,
and creative research environment. Its remit is to help implement the University’s research strategy,
to actively promote opportunities and communicate research success. The Unit has representation
on both the University Committee for Research and Innovation, UCRI (Malins) and University
Research Ethics Committee (Pitsaki). Our school’s research committee includes representatives
from our research technicians, our business development officer, a member of the University’s
Research Enterprise and Development (RED) team and a research student representative, elected
annually from the PGR cohort. The School’s Research Degrees Committee, on which all
postgraduate supervisors are represented, is chaired by the School’s Coordinator of Post-Graduate
Research Studies (Macintyre).



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

Introduction
Delivery of our research strategy is underpinned by our ambitious staffing strategy. The University's
Strategic Plan requires that a greater percentage of staff conduct research and scholarship at an
international level and deliver research-informed teaching. Our staffing strategy reflects this, and we
have moved our Unit’s staffing to a greater proportion of staff on Teaching and Research contracts
with allocated research time. This has allowed us to increase our research capacity over the review
period by approximately 40%. This includes the appointment of early career and experienced
researchers (Jaramillo, Malins, Pitsaki). Our community of researchers represents a broad
spectrum of approaches including laboratory-based, experimental research through to design-led
ethnographic and practice-based forms of research.

People Support and Development
We enable and support all staff and students’ research ambitions by maximising access to time,
training, travel, equipment and facilities. This has especially benefited our ECRs. We also operate
an annual Performance Development Review (PDR) process with an emphasis on personal
development. We follow the principle of recruiting, selecting and retaining the best – in part by
ensuring vacancies are advertised globally -- and via personal approaches to high calibre staff in our
strategic areas. We operate a mentoring scheme for new academics to ensure that senior academics
connect with and support junior colleagues.
High-level monitoring and review are achieved by regular staff survey and data collection (e.g.
registration data for career development courses). Regarding equality and diversity, we require all
staff to attend training and to implement the principles of equality and diversity across the school.
We strongly support staff equally in terms of development and promotion, a policy which has resulted
in improved gender balance across the unit: 40% male, 60% female. This aids our efforts in making
sure that selection panels, boards and committees are representative.
Studentship Allocation
We use industry funds and James Watt Scholarships (HWU own fund) to support early career
researchers. Our James Watt Scholarships scheme attracts international students who are linked to
our three key priority areas. In total seven studentships have been supported in this way between
2014 and 2020.
Training and Development
The School has a training and development budget which is allocated to specialised training needs
of individuals through the PDR process and a regular programme of training is available through the
Research Futures Academy in RED.
The aim of the academy is to support doctoral students and early career researchers to develop
skills and competencies to enhance their personal and professional capabilities and future
employability.
    Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice (PGCAP - focus on early-career staff)
    Learning Enhancement and Development Skills (LEADS) courses for Approved Tutor and
     Approved Teacher status (focus on research students)



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Researcher Development: the academy offers an extensive programme of bespoke training
     courses designed to increase research capability and success. Courses include Research
     Ethics, Advanced Research Methods and Statistics, Grant Writing and PhD supervision.

Research Students
We use the above mechanisms to build on a backbone of weekly meetings of individual
student/supervisor teams, from which the main discussion points are recorded on a centralised
system, aiming to ensure a stimulating and collaborative programme for all our students. High quality
supervision is assured by the regular meetings that enables any student who appears to be falling
behind, and/or not engaging sufficiently, to be easily identified and appropriate follow-up action taken
by the school Director of Postgraduate Research Students (PGRS, Macintyre). Formal progress
monitoring takes the form of an annual report and presentation, both of which are assessed by an
internal panel. An interview takes place with the internal assessor and the student and a formal report
is written by the internal assessor and the student’s primary and secondary supervisors.
The standard experience for a research student whose studies were within the 2014-20 period
included participation in conferences and workshops, internal presentations, internal progression
reviews and short training courses. All of our Unit’s PhD students have access to a budget for
research expenses up £800, such as conference attendance or miscellaneous equipment.

Equality and diversity
We adhere to the principles of full equality and diversity in all aspects of our operation. The University
was among the first in the UK to receive the HR Excellence in Research recognition from the
European Commission in 2010 and we have now held this award for ten years. We hold an
institutional level Athena SWAN Bronze award. Our commitment to equality and diversity goes
beyond this. For example, University wide activities are overseen by the Equality and Diversity
Advisory Group (EDAG). This group is made up of representatives from across the University
community. A critical path to achieving the equality and diversity targets is to ensure everyone from
across the University community understands how they contribute to a culture of ‘Inclusion for All’.
This requires all staff, researchers and PhD students to complete the basic ethics and diversity
awareness training, but also provides the option to extend the training with other workshops,
covering various issues in diversity, equality and bias, offered through the University’s Research
Futures Academy.
In terms of recruitment, we have a twin approach of using the normal advertising avenues, but then
also tasking our senior staff to proactively approach prospective under-represented groups. We also
ensure gender balance and representation of under-represented academics groups are involved in
the selection process. This, along with our training on unconscious bias that all interview panellists
must attend, has resulted in a fair and transparent recruitment process.
In terms of valuing and supporting, we offer our academics a six-month sabbatical/study leave that
is aimed at supporting people who have had a period(s) of maternity or other unexpected leave or
have taken on a substantial administrative role. The study/sabbatical leave support covers all
teaching and administrative responsibilities, leaving the academic to focus 100% on their research.
We also support flexible working by having a policy in place regarding suitable timings for important
and regular meetings that takes into consideration child and caring needs.
Selection of Outputs
We ensured full equality and diversity in the preparation of the REF2021 submission by:
                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Creating and maintaining a gender, race and age/experience balance of internal review teams;
    Ensuring all our outputs were reviewed by external experts chosen by our internal review
     teams;
    Creating a supportive working environment for the team (in person and, latterly, remotely) that
     encourages freedom of expression, mutual respect and shared value/understanding of the
     critical importance of the preparations and the REF process;
    Ensuring that all members of the REF Team had completed unconscious bias training; and
    Embodying career development and training as a reason for inclusion in the REF Team.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income
Our total income reported in REF4 in this assessment period is £1.7M (nearly £250k per annum over
the period). This compares to £140k per annum in REF2014. In addition, our REF4 figures do not
include research and innovation investments reported separately in HESA such as £750k from the
Scottish Funding Council (to establish the Textiles Futures Forum), A further £745K of infrastructure
investment has been from industry, livery companies and the University. Dedicated research spaces
have been adapted to meet our strategic research needs, this included laboratories and workshops,
testing and presentation facilities, studio and desk research spaces specifically for PhD and ECRs,
together creating a vibrant research environment for design and technology research. As an historic
building, ‘The High Mill’ which hosts our School, following previous refurbishment has had a further
£290K of investment in the upgrading of the space and facilities, allowing the development of a
social/collaborative space for staff to come together and develop ideas. Alongside the investment in
space, significant investment in CAD hardware and software (£284K) was made to provide our staff
and students with the latest technologies for research in design, garment, fashion, weaving, knitting,
and printing. The research environment is further strengthened by a rolling programme of updating
and training, to continue to support these areas with the most current technologies. The research
activity is supported with a team of 10 technical staff supporting our specialist facilities, students and
staff. Our strong industry links have resulted in industry partners being extremely generous in their
donations of yarns and materials and equipment benefiting the School from in kind donations in the
region of £250K. Finally, we have a significant historical collection archive of Textiles which has been
utilised in research projects with national and international archives and in collaborative projects with
industry.

Infrastructure
The GRID
Another significant University investment benefitting the unit was in the GRID building, which is our
new flagship facility to advance our global research and entrepreneurship. This facility was designed
using an open space collaboration model to allow broad cohesion between academic disciplines,
industrial partners and our global community.




                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




     Figure 1: GRID Building adjacent to Loch at the Edinburgh Campus
The GRID is positioned at the heart of our Edinburgh campus, and it constitutes an investment of
£19M by HWU. The facility has many joint networked spaces where staff can discover, tackle
challenges, and explore their intellectual passions. Of particular interest and use to the unit’s
researchers and industry partners is that the GRID includes spaces to explore originality (Creative
Studio), to quickly prototype with the latest 3D and rapid prototyping technologies (Flex and Maker
Studios), to fully develop industry collaborations, visualisation and prototyping. The GRID also
includes flexible and immersive learning and teaching areas complemented with the enterprise area
to encourage interaction and design-led education. One of our main motivations for this facility was
HWU’s interest in empowering its staff and students to collaborate across disciplines and fully
develop their ideas, from the conception to launch in a global market. Most recently this has
benefitted ideation workshops urn with our industry partners. For example a workshop bringing
together the senior team from Johnstones of Elgin with design researchers, engineering researchers
and computing science researchers and generating over one hundred individual project ideas which
were narrowed down to twenty new projects, that could be taken forward as collaborative
development projects. This investment and strategic focus on engaging with industry at the
University level is demonstrated in our submission which shows annual research income from
industry increase more than 10-fold from REF 2014 (£5k/annum to £54k/annum).

Facilities
Our research is supported with a wide range of laboratories and workshops which enable us to
research anything from fibre, yarn, knit, weave, dye, finish, make-up including whole garments,
design and pattern cutting both manual and automatic, print (screen and digital) fully conditioned
measurement and physical testing of textiles to specialised facilities such as chemical synthesis,
nanofibre production, scattering SEM, microelectronics/wireless, performance yarn production (melt
and wet spinning), filtration. We have a dedicated SMART lab, both design and technical research
studios and a rich archive of Scottish Textile heritance. Dedicated technical staff service these
laboratories, support users and maintain samples of raw materials as well as equipment
maintenance.




                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
HWU and Unit Resources to Support Research
University Underpinning Support
In terms of research support for academics the university has a centralised research and business
development professional support team (RED) that provides the following:
   Research Development - provides specialist support for academic staff seeking to win
    research funding.
   The Global Challenge Research Fund - supports the implementation of the University’s
    GCRF Strategy.
   Business Development – works with academics to increase research income from industry
    and business. This team included a member of staff embedded in the unit specifically for
    supporting engagement of our Art and Design research with industry.
   Research Grants Office – assists academics with their post-award management of their
    externally funded research grants and contracts.
   Public Engagement Team- assists academics in realising the potential of their research
    results and work through supporting them in undertaking outreach events and disseminating
    to audiences outside academia (see section 4 for examples of support provide).
   Policy, Strategy & Impact – advising on application of research policies such as the use of
    animals in the ‘Bovine Bumbags’ project, working with researchers to feed the latest research
    to the University communications team, and delivering a workshop on research and impact for
    all ArchInTex partners (January 2018).
   Legal Services – Protecting the interests of the University in its research and knowledge
    exchange activities, and supporting its Excelling in Research and Enterprise strategy.
We have ten dedicated technicians within the School who support teaching delivery and the technical
needs of our research projects.
The University Information Services Research Support (ISRS) team also provides guidance, expert
advice and hands-on support for all aspects of research and research-related work to research
academic staff and schools across the University. ISRS works in partnership with the Research
Engagement Directorate (RED) and other IS divisions to help facilitate research-related planning,
and to meet the needs of both the individual researcher and the wider institution.
The key objectives of ISRS related to the REF are:
   Research Outputs Support: it is responsible for ensuring that all tangible research produced
    within the University and subsequently published and recorded in a consistent manner and
    compliant with open-access and REF mandates.
   Support for the use of High-Performance Computing facilities.
   Capability to store, preserve and access increasingly large volumes of electronic research data
    sets.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


The School has played a leading role in the transformation of the Technical Textiles sector through
the TechniTex Faraday Partnership and now TechniTex, Ltd (Stylios, Board Director 2006 onwards)
and has become part of the Materials Knowledge Transfer Network and the Institute of Physics. Our
                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
UoA played a leading role in the Textiles Future Forum, bringing industry and academics together to
drive innovation. In the final report to government, it was documented that the projects undertaken
were set to see a return of an 8:1 ratio for ‘gross value add per £ of programme cost’. On a European
level, Stylios and Keith are invited core members in the European Architectural / Design Network
ArcInTex, involving eight core and 12 associated members from across Europe, including the
Swedish School of Textiles and the Royal College of Art. ArcInTex brings architecture together with
fabric design and construction. We are also a member of Autex with 31 members from 23 countries
working in high level textile education and research. The School contributes to both the research
base for the discipline and the discipline more broadly as evidenced below, gaining reciprocal benefit
as it does so. Globally, 14 keynote addresses have been delivered in the period.

Conference Keynotes, Chairing and Workshops
In terms of academic leadership our academics in the unit have been conference chairs, Keynotes
or both.

 Keynote Speaker, Panel Chair, Workshop
                         XpoNorth Conference, 25th June 2020, panel chair ‘Time for play:
                         designing for children’, online.
 le Guennec              ‘Childhood studies and material culture: the necessity of an
                         interdisciplinary approach’, International Childhood Conference, Sofia,
                         Bulgaria, 26th October 2018.
 Macintyre               Keynote speaker at British Burn Association 2019
                         Keynote Speaker at International Conference: Art as Research in
                         Teaching and Learning 31st Aug - 2nd Sept 2016, University of
                         Wolverhampton, UK
                         Participation invited by Professor Ross W. Prior
                         Keynote Title: ‘Trialogical Learning: A New Framework for Learning
                         through the Creative Relationship between Emerging Technologies and
 Malins
                         Multiple Participants’
                         This led to a peer-reviewed book chapter: Gray, C, Malins, J. and
                         Bristow, M.(2018) The ‘epistemic object’ in the process of creative
                         doctoral inquiry in: 'Using Art as Research in Learning and Teaching' (ed.
                         Prior, R) Intellect Books
                         www.intellectbooks.com/using-art-as-research-in-learning-and-teaching
                         CIMTEC 2014; ‘A Wearable Computer Platform Wewear for Healthcare
                         Monitoring,’ 6th Forum on New Materials, Session FO-9, Wearable and
                         Implantable Sensors and Body Sensor Networks, 15-19 June 2014, Italy.
                         ITTC 2015; 6th International Technical Textiles Congress, ‘The
 Stylios
                         Electrocarding of Nanoyarns’ Izmir, Turkey 10-12 October 2015.
                         ITC&D 2016; 8th International Textiles, Clothing and Design Conference,
                         ‘New Measurement Technologies for Textiles and Clothing’, 2-5 October
                         2016, Dubrovnik, Croatia.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Keynote Speaker, Panel Chair, Workshop
                      UTIB International R&D Brokerage Event in Turkish Textile and Clothing
                      Sector, 12-13 May, Turkey 2016
                      CIMTEX 2016; Manufacturing Nanoyarns for Conventional and Technical
                      End-Uses, Symposium L: SMART and Interactive Textiles, 2016 Italy
                      UTIB International R&D Brokerage Event in Turkish Textile and Clothing
                      Sector, 27-28 April, Bursa, Turkey 2017
                      ITTC 2018; 7th International Technical Textiles Congress, ‘Fabric
                      Mechanics;’ Izmir, Turkey 10-12 October 2018
Stylios (continued)   Convenor of Special Sessions on SMART and Technical Textiles in
                      International Conferences, i.e. CIMTEC; International Congress on
                      Modern Materials; 2016, 2018,
                      UTIB International R&D Brokerage Event in Turkish Textile and Clothing
                      Sector, Bursa, Turkey 2018
                      E-Textiles Conference 2020; 2nd International Conference on the
                      Challenges, Opportunities, Innovations and Applications in Electronic
                      Textiles, ‘A Novel Exempt from Motion Artefact Wearable Vest for
                      Continuous Well-Being Monitoring’, 3-4 November 2020, UK



Editorships
Malins                Editorial Board for The Design Journal
                      International Journal of Clothing Science & Technology 2014 – present;
                      Editor in Chief, 6 issues per year – 10 papers per issue.
                      Special Issue Guest Editor Materials: Novel SMART Textiles
Stylios
                      doi.org/10.3390/books978-3-03928-571-6
                      Special Issue Guest Editor Sensors: E-Textiles and Sensors
                      ISSN 1424-8220
                      Journal of Textile Science & Fashion Technology, editor-in-chief: 25 Sep.
                      2018 – present https://irispublishers.com/jtsft/editorialboard.php
                      Journal of Industrial Textiles, editorial board member:
                      16/08/2016 – present
                      https://uk.sagepub.com/en-gb/eur/journal/journal-industrial-
                      textiles#editorial-board
Sun
                      Advance Research in Textile Engineering, editorial board member:
                      02/09//2016 – present
                      https://austinpublishinggroup.com/textile-engineering/editorialBoard.php
                      Journal of Textile Engineering and Fashion Technology, editorial board
                      member: 8/8/2016 – present
                      https://medcraveonline.com/JTEFT/editorial-board




                                                                                        Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Peer Review
                        Pasold Foundation: Grants reviewer
 le Guennec             Reviewer: Enfances, Familles, Generations
                        [https://journals.openedition.org/efg/]
                        Reviewer: Craft Research Journal (Intellect)
 Kalkreuter             Grants Peer Reviewer: EPSRC, AHRC, Innovatex, EU, USA, Sweden,
                        Belgium, Germany, Greece, Turkey, Azerbaijan, China, Hong Kong
                        Reviewer: The Design Journal
 Malins
                        Reviewer: IJETA: International Journal for Education Though Art
                        Reviewer: European Business Review Journal (2018)
                        Reviewer: Scientific Committee, Next Wave 21th Design Management
                        Institute Academic Conference 2018, [Ravensbourne University London,
 Pitsaki                UK, August 1-2
                        Reviewer: Scientific Committee, Design for the Creative Industries Track
                        Coordinator, 11th European Academy of Design Conference 2015, Paris
                        Descartes, April 17-19



Visiting/International Staff
Our strategy is to continue to widen our engagement with world leaders in areas that overlap our
interests, and/or help us better engage with global priorities. We have therefore hosted Professor
Mahmut Kayar and Professor Ilker Mistik, University of Marmara, Turkey for 12 months over 2017-
18, Professor Han Fan, Nanjin University, 1 month 2017, Professor Tao Wan, Nanjin University, 2
months 2018, Professor Shigeru Inui, Shinshu University, 3 months over 2 visits in 2019, Professor
Melda Osdemir, Gazi University, Ankara, Turkey, 2 months 2019 and Sun hosted a 2-year
Commonwealth Rutherford Fellow, Dr Sohail Yasin 2017-2020

Public Engagement
Our researchers are also highly active in the wider dissemination of their research to the public
through a range of public engagement activities in the form of lectures, public events, workshops
and exhibitions.




                                                                                          Page 14
