Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Keele University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA11 Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Computer science at Keele is a small UoA, largely within the School of Computing and
 Mathematics. The School’s historical focus is AI (especially neural networks) applications and
 evidence-based software engineering. The 2021 UoA11 return is characterised by significant
 growth, broadening of research themes and rapidly growing involvement in smart energy and
 transport sectors.

 The unit has made huge strides since REF2014 and is returning outputs from 15 staff with
 significant responsibility for research (15 FTE) plus two retired professors. This compares to 5
 category A staff in REF 2014. Average annual research income has grown by 116% (to £233k
 from £108k) since REF 2014.

 Structure and its evolution

 All staff and postgraduate students (PGRs) are part of one or more thematic groups:

 ●   Artificial Intelligence (AI: nature-inspired computation, machine learning, data analytics)
 ●   Evolutionary Systems (ES: open-ended evolution, theoretical constraints on evolution,
     neuroevolution and behavioural evolution)
 ●   Software & Systems Engineering (SSE: wearables, simulation, synthetic biology).

 Our structure is flexible, supporting widespread cross-theme and interdisciplinary collaborations.
 We have many cross-theme PhDs: for example, Brereton and Andras supervised pioneering
 work applying AI text mining in systematic reviews (https://doi.org/gf6h5m); de Quincey and
 Andras supervised highly-cited research using ML in detection of malicious content in social
 media (https://doi.org/ff2j).

 Our research on smart energy (Fan, Cao), which includes cross-discipline doctoral fellowships
 with industrial partners (Section 2) is aligned to both AI and SSE themes.

 Themes align with developing University and national priorities, and the staffing strategy reflects
 these priorities. For example, during 2020, wo new cross-cutting AI/SSE themes emerged:
 Computational Health & Biological Systems (Woolley, Day, Misirli: see Section 4 for
 collaborations), and explainable AI (Ortolani, Woolley, Polack).

 Collaboration and collaborative initiatives

 All returned staff have collaborations with other disciplines, SMEs, large companies, or health
 organisations (Section 4). All staff are supervising PGR students.

 UoA11 staff are Investigators on three major industry collaborations:
 1. The Keele Smart Energy Network Demonstrator (SEND), the largest cross-vector smart-
    energy network in the UK, underpins the University’s objective to become carbon neutral by
    2030. Funded (2017-21) by ERDF (£9.1m), Keele University (£1.5m) and BEIS (£4.7m), the
    project supports an interdisciplinary PhD programme. Academic Director, Fan, previously
    Chief Research Fellow with Toshiba Research Europe in Bristol, leads research on Internet of
    Things (IoT), smart grid, data analytics, and 5G communications. The programme supports
    Tenure Track research fellows: Cao (dynamic control / optimisation of multi-energy systems)
    and Matthews (UoA12: sustainable photovoltaics).
            ○ In 2020, engineering partner Siemens plc announced a “global case study” based
               on SEND, whilst Fan leads the first UK-based MSc in Smart Energy Management.
 2. Zero Carbon Rugeley, a sustainable smart local energy system design project for Rugeley,

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Staffordshire (2019-22, Innovate UK PFER: £1.4m + £1.5m from consortium partners), led by
    Engie plc., with Keele PIs from Institute for Sustainable Futures (Fogwill/Robinson): Polack
    and Cao are Co-investigators, communicating learning from SEND to support energy
    modelling.
 3. Building on Keele’s global leadership in sustainability, Polack is academic lead for Simulate
    Live Lab (DfT/Adept, £1.9m), led by Staffordshire County Council (SCC) with Amey plc and
    Connected Places Catapult. Simulate manages 9 mobility and air quality trials with partner
    companies,      and    evaluation     by     Keele    academics      from   many      schools
    (https://www.keele.ac.uk/business/businesssupport/simulate/).

 Further projects in smart energy and transport include: UrbanX (Innovate UK £316k partner: Qbots
 Energy, PI Fan); EPSRC PFER EnergyREV consortium (£9m; Keele Co-I Fan is cybersecurity
 lead; postdoc to be recruited 2021). The above initiatives support collaborations across Keele and
 beyond, representing a major UK and EU investment in the technology to underpin sustainability.

 Building from 2014
 In 2014, UoA11 returned 5 staff. The 2014 strategy was to build on the strong reputation of existing
 research in software engineering and computational intelligence/cognitive science. This has been
 achieved, and our new vision is to continue to grow impact and visibility, aligned to national
 priorities (Section 2 outlines staff recruitment strategy).

 The success of UoA11 since 2014 is underpinned by significant collaborative and interdisciplinary
 research, illustrated by the wide range of computer science and interdisciplinary topics covered in
 our selected outputs: theory and practical applications of large-scale data analytics/machine
 learning (supervised and unsupervised); theories of evolution and evolutionary computing;
 engineering design contributions as diverse as synthetic biology and smart energy management;
 evidence-based software engineering; use and analysis of systematic reviews; engineering of
 demonstrably fit-for-purpose simulations; pedagogic technologies; social media analysis;
 reconstruction from 3D models, design and analysis of health wearables.

 Since 2014 in Software engineering, Kitchenham and Brereton (retired 2019) consolidated their
 international leadership of evidence-based software engineering, EBSE (Google Scholar “since
 2015”: Kitchenham over 20,000 citations, Brereton over 7,500); the EASE international conference
 they founded is now in its 25th year (https://ease2019.org/previous-conferences/). Their latest
 book (Kitchenham, Brereton, Budgen (2015) CRC Press ISBN: 9781482228656) underpins the
 tool suite which is the subject of our systematic review impact case study.

 Over the REF period, through targeted recruitment, our software and systems engineering has
 developed new strands:
 ● Polack and Misirli: research building on different areas of model driven engineering (e.g.
    https://doi.org/f6qh8d, https://doi.org/f52k22; https://doi.org/f9tdq3). Polack is a founder
    member of the internationally important York-based model driven engineering group (D.
    Kolovos, R. Paige). She leads pioneering work on software engineering of fit-for-purpose
    simulation (e.g. Stepney, Polack (2018) Springer ISBN 978-3-030-01938-9). Misirli’s
    research in computational synthetic biology is within an international collaboration that defined
    and manages the SBOL language (https://sbolstandard.org/; highly-cited 2014 Nature
    Biotechnology paper: https://doi.org/f56pqg; current version 3.0.0: https://doi.org/ff5n). Misirli
    contributed significantly to the language and tool interchange standards, repositories
    (https://doi.org/gcwg8v) and visualisation (https://doi.org/ff5s); personally contributing
    underlying mechanisms (https://doi.org/ff5v) and practical application of model-driven
    workflows in synthetic design (https://doi.org/fdxf). The research has spawned public
    repositories (e.g. synbiohub.org, SEVA plasmid standardisation: https://doi.org/ff5w), and is
    used by open-source tools (e.g.                Myers Research Group's SBOLDesigner
    (https://sboldesigner.github.io/).
 ● Woolley and De Quincey have a wide range of research skills, loosely characterised as
    gadgets and usability: design and analysis of health/medical monitors, guidelines, wearables
    analysis and reliability of wearables (e.g., Woolley et al. https://doi.org/fdz3; De Quincey et

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     al. https://doi.org/fdw8). De Quincey also leads pedagogic data analytics and usability
     research (HEFCE Catalyst fund, 2016, £99,790, and JISC Learning Analytics Research
     Group, 2019, £19,880; e.g. https://doi.org/fd2n). His expertise in social media analysis (e.g.
     https://doi.org/ff2j) underpins collaborative research into the treatment of Muslims (e.g., AHRC
     AH/T004460/1/ £337,482, https://doi.org/gg24nc).
 ●   Woolley leads a multidisciplinary collaboration on virtual 3D modelling and reconstruction,
     showcased in our virtual cuneiform impact case study. The teams’s technologies support 3D
     model acquisition, visualisation, interaction and reconstruction, and augmented reality, used
     in archaeological artifact reconstruction, interactive virtual museum displays and public
     outreach activities (https://virtualcuneiform.org/ARMuseum.html).

 Since 2014, the computational intelligence/cognitive science (CICS) theme has split into two
 distinct research themes.
 ● Evolutionary Systems research (2014: Channon): Channon now leads a team that has
     established an international reputation in ALife and evolutionary computation. Channon’s
     research includes: (1) his ongoing interdisciplinary collaboration (Section 4) developing new
     theory (e.g., extinction and evolution, in evolutionary computing and biology: BBSRC £465,242
     and £268,176; https://doi.org/bd7r; https://doi.org/cf8w). (2) international leadership in open-
     ended evolution (OEE), co-founding the OEE workshop series (Section 4). The first OEE
     workshop report (https://doi.org/bpqb) reviewed OEE, revealing broad consensus on
     behavioural hallmarks of OEE plus broad hypothesized mechanisms, and led to a resurgence
     in        OEE            research          internationally       (https://workshops.alife.org/oee2/,
     https://workshops.alife.org/oee3/). The 2016 report was the most-downloaded ALife Journal
     paper in 2019 and is the most highly-cited paper ever in the ALife Journal. In 2019, Channon
     guest-edited the OEE special issue of the ALife Journal, which is the only double-issue of the
     Journal (Artificial Life 25(1) and 25(2), 2019).
 ● The wider Evolutionary Systems research includes Stanton’s neuroevolution of robotic
     behaviour (e.g. https://doi.org/59x, https://doi.org/ffm3), leading to wider research in theory
     and practice of neuroevolution (e.g., https://doi.org/ctfq, https://doi.org/ffzz); and Borg’s
     influential work on social behaviour evolution (e.g. https://doi.org/b88c).
 ● Neural networks and computational intelligence research (2014: Day, Lam): building on
     previous data analytics research, Day and Mandal research echo state networks and deep
     convolutional neural network approaches, with applications to time series, structural data,
     ultrasound, images and video. Examples of collaborative research (Day, Kyriacou, Lam, or
     Mandal) includes analysis of skeletal imaging (e.g. https://doi.org/ggsh2x), prosthetic control
     (e.g. https://doi.org/ffz5, https://doi.org/fdn3), hidden and visible defects in concrete structures
     (e.g. https://doi.org/fdn4, https://doi.org/ffm9; https://doi.org/ffz6), and a wide range
     classification problems using image or video data (Mandal et al, https://doi.org/fd2h,
     https://doi.org/fd2j ). Andras contributes novel theory and algorithms derived from
     neuroscience (e.g. https://doi.org/fd2k).

 Research and impact strategy
 Our current research strategy, aligned to University Strategy, supports our rapidly growing
 research engagement and income. It is closely coupled to our impact strategy, and sees all staff
 engaged in research collaborations across disciplines, universities, industry and health
 organisations.

 A key objective is to develop a sustained portfolio of funded research, which in turn will establish
 a community of postdocs to enhance the sustainability and resilience of research. There is already
 evidence of success, with 3 new postdocs recruited during 2020 (Fan, UrbanX; de Quincey,
 AHRC; de Quincey, data science research associated with OfS-funded MSc), and another
 starting in 2021 (Fan, EnergyREV).

 In Artificial Intelligence (including nature-inspired computation, computational neuroscience,
 machine learning, data analytics, explainable AI), our strategic aims are:
 ● Strengthen and expand theoretical and applied AI in data-rich areas, specifically smart energy
    and transport

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ●   Expand data analytics and statistical applications underpinning data science for biological and
     medical domains
 ●   Maintain and expand structural and biological applications of our machine learning research

 In Evolutionary Systems (open-ended evolution, incremental evolution, neuroevolution,
 behavioural evolution), our strategic aims are:
 ● Maintain and enhance our reputation in evolutionary systems research, in both the theory of
    incremental and open-ended evolution and applications to biological and engineered systems;
 ● Strengthen our robotics research, focusing on incremental neuroevolutionary strategies as
    drivers of evolutionary robotics and behavioural evolution;
 ● Expand our developing expertise in modelling social and cultural evolution.

 In Software & Systems Engineering (wearables, simulation, synthetic biology, digital heritage), our
 strategic aims are:
 ● Evolve EBSE research in new directions, developing our expertise in engineering complex
     system simulation and user-centred design;
 ● Extend, through collaboration with other themes and disciplines, system and software
     engineering principles and practices to data analytics, medical systems engineering, and
     digital heritage, smart energy and transport;
 ● Grow the impact of our work on digital heritage, 3D visualisation, learning analytics, usability
     and health monitoring.

 In addition, we are actively developing research that supports our growing data science teaching
 and the University’s digital strategy. We aim to consolidate emerging research on ethical and
 explainable AI (above) aligning with professional policy work undertaken independently by our
 data science lead, Dr Allison Gardner, (with IEEE; BSI; charitable organisations -- Leverhulme,
 Chatham House, G20 women's forum; UN Rapporteur on impact of AI on vulnerable groups; with
 policy makers -- UK Select Committee on Artificial Intelligence, All Party Parliamentary Group
 STEM, Centre for Data Ethics). We anticipate future impact and international recognition in this
 area.

 In relation to our large industrial projects in Smart Energy and Transport, our strategy aligns with
 National and University sustainability agendas. Our strategic aims are to:
 ● Build strong interdisciplinary research within the University’s Institute for Sustainable Futures,
     showcasing Keele’s demonstrator and live lab capabilities, consolidating the relevance and
     usability of the demonstrator/live labs to guide future (inter)national initiatives;
 ● Expand further our industrial partnerships and funding through active participation in energy,
     transport and sustainability initiatives from UKRI and others, and build on our participation in
     DERLAB, Energy Research Accelerator (ERA) and EnergyREV;
 ● Increase, and build research from, our “industry assist” roles in smart energy and transport.


 Research integrity

 UoA11 is committed to open science. Gold or green open access is a requirement, supported both
 via the University Open Access Fund and school resources; staff include open access costs in all
 submitted research proposals. All outputs are available via the University’s Symplectic repository
 and associated data management systems. Understanding of open science is now the focus of
 staff development across the School via workshops at Research Awaydays, with associated
 scholarship on data management and research ethics in data science. To further strengthen the
 rigour and integrity of our research, we are working with the University and Faculty research
 integrity champions on the development of robust data curation, and replicability of research
 (Misirli). Colleagues are actively involved in the School and Keele initiatives to ensure that
 research is conducted according to appropriate ethical and legal frameworks, obligations and
 standards. Woolley, the Faculty Ethics Director, and Polack, the School Research Director,
 provide guidance and oversight for staff and PGRs in relation to research ethics (e.g., use of the

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University Ethical Oversight Committee’s innovative risk-based ethical assessment process) and
 GDPR (e.g., Oct 2019: invited seminar by GDPR expert, Charlie Houston-Brown, RushKeep
 Solutions / BCS North Staffordshire Chair). Aligned to our developing research in bias and
 explainability in AI (Ortolani, Gardner), and our growing reputation in data science teaching,
 frameworks for data science ethics and integrity are becoming an important part of our research
 portfolio.

 Future strategic aims and impact

 Our overall research impact stems from extensive collaboration, within academia, with companies
 and with health organisations. We are establishing ongoing processes, working with University
 and Faculty impact leads, to support early identification and enhancement of research impact,
 including developing the impact of our industrially important smart energy and data science
 research -- which align to University, regional, national and international priorities in sustainability
 and inclusivity. Our strategies encourage cultivation of partners for research in AI, smart energy
 and transport, health wearables and other medical computation, and user centred design. For
 example, AI researchers collaborate with civil engineering firms MWT Engineering Ltd and Arcadis
 Ltd. Machine learning applications on medical data has partnered University Hospitals of North
 Midlands (Stoke-on-Trent) and The Robert Jones and Agnes Hunt (RJAH) Orthopaedic Hospital
 (Oswestry). A major KTP (£250k: PI Kyriacou) applies business-critical data analysis with Bentley
 Motors. Our collaborations are elaborated in Section 4.

 Looking to the future, we anticipate strategic growth in computational support for sustainability,
 notably in relation to smart energy and transport; continued development and growth in data
 science research including applied data analysis, explainable AI, bias in AI and other data
 analytics, and research integrity in data sciences. We expect broad collaborations across data-
 related research areas within Keele and the development of further academic and industrial
 collaborations in these strategically important areas.

 2. People

 Staffing and staff strategy
 Staffing strategy is embedded within, and complemented by, Keele’s People Strategy (see
 REF5a). We are returning 15 category A staff and two retired professors (cf: REF2014: 5 staff).
 Eleven of these 15 staff joined since 2014, leading to significant evolution in strategy and research.
 Our strategy allows us to maintain balance in seniority, bring in strong early-career and
 experienced staff.

 Since 2014, we have externally-recruited three professors: Andras (Newcastle), Polack (York) --
 replacing Brereton, Kitchenham -- and Fan (Toshiba). Channon was promoted to Reader. Our 3
 senior lecturers (SLs) are Woolley (appointed 2016, Birmingham); de Quincey (appointed 2015,
 Greenwich; promoted 2016) and Kyriacou (promoted 2019).

 Four Computer Science staff were Early Career Researchers (ECR) on appointment (Stanton
 2017, Misirli 2017, Mandal 2018, Borg 2018). Stanton and Borg were Keele postgraduates;
 Misirli was a postdoc at Newcastle; Mandal was a postdoc at A*, Singapore. Ortolani (appointed
 2018, from Palermo, Italy) is in his first permanent post; in 2017 he was awarded a Fulbright
 Scholarship (Missouri University of Science and Technology). Cao (recruited 2017, from Oxford)
 is an ECR in the Keele Institute for Sustainable Futures and SEND Research Fellow; he is CoI on
 bth UrbanX (PI Fan) and Zero Carbon Rugeley (Section 1) and has held a £7k Royal Society
 Grant (2019-20) and a National Natural Science Foundation China Grant (2015-17).

 Support for ECR staff
 Our ECR support combines well defined expectations and active mentoring / support. Probation
 applies to all new staff, and mandates university training and induction. ECRs also take the Keele
 Higher Education Practice MA/PGDip and become HEA Fellows. Polack and Andreas mentor

                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 first-grant submissions (e.g. by Misirli, Mandal, Stanton).
 ECR support examples. Borg joined the academic staff in 2018, having contributed significantly
 to teaching activities alongside his PhD. He has received active support (from theme lead,
 Channon, and Research Director, Polack, for instance) to (a) achieve a REF output profile on
 social evolution and noise research; (b) establish the collaborations needed to progress his
 research, through local funding for visits and visitors, etc. Misirli, by contrast, already has
 significant collaborations and strong research output.; his support has focused on developing
 independence, exploitation of funding opportunities, widening publication outlets to develop
 research impact; in addition, senior staff are supporting development of Misirli’s potential as a
 future research leader, with a goal of a leadership fellow application within two years. Cao is
 mentored by academically Fan, developing novel research in e.g. aspects of smart energy
 management and optimisation; Polack is supporting impact development by Cao and Fan, and
 contributing to development of Cao’s research leadership ambitions (he has reached the interview
 stage of UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship competition: unfunded MR/T042761/1).

 Equality, Diversity, Inclusion (EDI)
 The school is actively committed to inclusivity and holds Athena Swan Bronze (renewed October
 2020), whilst the University’s holds an institutional Athena Swan Bronze. The university’s support
 for inclusion and diversity (including, for instance, a very active BAME staff group, an LGBTI Role
 Models & Allies Programme and strong diversity leadership within Faculties) is recognised by a
 Bronze Race Equality Charter Award, Level 2 Disability Confident Employer status and a positive
 Stonewall Workplace Equality Index ranking.

 All recruitment uses positive action to encourage and support applications from underrepresented
 groups; interviewers must have up-to-date training in recruitment best practice and unconscious
 bias. Interview panels aim to include female and BAME representation, whilst respecting the need
 to avoid overloading underrepresented staff groups. BAME are strongly represented in applicants
 and interviews, and we typically interview 30-50% female candidates.

 All 15 REF-eligible staff are currently on fulltime open contracts. The unit responds flexibly to
 changing staff circumstances. For example, one member became permanent, fulltime in 2019,
 having been recruited as fixed-term 0.3 FTE (2016), rising to 0.6 FTE (2018) as personal
 circumstances changed. Other examples of adjustments to respect personal circumstances from
 the last three years include at least 4 returned staff with specific adjustments of more than two
 months (ill health, end of life care, paternity/parental leave). If we had staff returning to research
 after maternity leave, there is open access to the Keele Academic (Maternity) Returner's Fund.
 Shorter-term flexible working is considered formally in annual performance reviews, but also as
 needed in consultation with Head of School or School Research Director. All such meetings
 continue online since March 2020, with active support for staff safeguarding and working from
 home.

 Category A staff include 4 BAME and 2 female academics (Table 1.1.). IWe are returning two
 retired female professors. Ratios are comparable to the sector, but we have a higher proportion
 of women in senior roles.

 Table 1.1. Diversity detail, Category A REF-eligible staff
                 BAME          ECR on        Lecturer   SL /         Prof.        Post
                               arrival       / Senior   Reader                    2014
                                             Postdoc                              arrival

  Total     15      4 (26%)     5 (33%)       8 (53%)     4 (26%)      3 (20%)    11 (73%)


  Male      13             4             5          8            3            2             9



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Female 2                0           0            0           1            1           2


  Post      11            3           5            6           2            3          11
  2014



 Support for research and academic training
 UoA11 is fully committed to Vitae's Concordat for Promoting Excellence in Research. As the
 proportion of research-active staff increases, research leadership and mentoring has grown.
 Andras, Polack and Fan joined with extensive research experience: Polack took University of
 York’s award-winning research leadership programme, and all have undertaken Keele leadership
 training. Polack sits on Faculty Research Committee, guiding research strategy for Natural
 Science, whilst all three are in Keele Research Leaders’ Network, which meets monthly to support
 and develop the University’s research culture.

 Expectations for all staff are defined in School Role Descriptors and formally discussed in annual
 probation or performance reviews. Between reviews, research staff discuss plans and goals
 informally with School Research Director at least once a year. Formal and informal reviews identify
 promotion candidates, and identify support and development needs, as well as identifying and
 supporting potential fellowship candidates and future leaders, e.g., signposting to EPSRC FLF,
 Springboard and Aurora. We anticipate at least two promotions to Reader / Chair, and several to
 SL within the next 3 years.

 In addition to ECR support, above, more senior staff support staff identifying and applying for
 funding, and assist in develop academic and industrial collaborations; e.g., Polack supports
 Woolley and Gardiner in their career development. As noted in Section 1, Woolley (Faculty
 Ethics Director) provides extensive support on research ethics and GDPR, working closely with
 University and medical ethics staff. Staff are also supported actively by the University research
 support team (RaISE). Senior staff review all proposals, maintain an archive of highly-rated
 proposals, and support staff working on rebuttals, or reviewing rejections.

 Our research leadership activities have identified new internal collaborations, such as Day and
 Mandal on structural monitoring data analytics; Fan, Andras and Ortolani on AI for smart
 systems; Polack, Woolley and Misirli on simulation.

 The School has a research budget for consumables and travel, which is accessible by all staff,
 postdocs and PGRs, and enables researchers to attend key conferences and research meetings
 (e.g., attending annual ALife and Models conferences): the only eligibilty criterion is some
 relevance to the School research portfolio. In addition, Polack oversees our many applications for
 University funding (Faculty Research Development (RDF); Faculty PhD scholarships; Institute for
 Keele Liberal Arts and Sciences Fellowship (ILAS), Keele Impact Fund (KIF)). Examples of funded
 activities include Keele events (e.g., Misirli 2018: UK Ontology Network; Polack 2019: Agent
 Based Modelling workshop; Mandal 2019: BCS Workshop on Emerging ML), and ILAS-funded
 research visitors (e.g., S. Power, Edinburgh Napier: Borg, 2018; E. Gehlken, Frankfurt: Woolley
 2019-20). KIF grants have paid for consumables and outreach activity for 3D reconstruction, 2019-
 2020.

 There are a minimum of 3 all-staff research meetings a year (since March 2020, incorporated in
 monthly online School meetings). All staff contribute to strategy, theme evolution, and promotion
 of funding opportunities. Research seminars (weekly in termtime) include internal speakers
 (PGRs, postdocs and academic staff) and visitors from Keele and beyond: notable examples
 include Susan Stepney (York Cross-disciplinary Centre for Systems Analysis: 2016), Emma Hart
 (Napier, Editor-in-Chief of Evolutionary Computation: 2020), David McKee (CEO and founder of
 Slingshot Simulation, 2019).

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We maintain strong research relationships with retired staff, Kitchenham and Brereton, who
 continue to contribute advice and insights (e.g., on research strategy and PhD supervision). It is
 likely that 2-3 current staff will retire during the next REF cycle, with similar potential to continue
 contributing to research activities.

 Through our industry links, a number of staff have active industrial roles. All the SEND research
 fellows (below) spend a day a week with their company sponsors, and KTP researchers have all
 been based at the participating company.

 PGR recruitment and supervision
 Our total PGR population over the REF period is 80 FTE, with an annual average of 11.4 PGRs.
 We have seen a sustained rise in recruitment over the period: in July 2020, excluding submitted
 PhDs, we had 17 PGRs, with many more due to join after the REF cut-off. Our total PhD awards
 in the reporting period is 20, a 138% increase over REF 2014. Since 2017, we have had 3 to 5
 awards each year, which will be exceeded in 2020-21.

 All staff are supported in recruiting PGRs (e.g., through FindAPhD and social media channels),
 and all returned staff have supervised PGRs during the REF period.

 The school’s broad artificial intelligence and health-related research is particularly attractive to
 PGRs; with many recent recruits coming from industry or studying part-time alongside working in
 companies (including: Apple Retail Systems, Dell Healthcare, GE Renewable Energy,
 DeutscheBank). The percentage of female PGRs is at or above sector average (July 2019: 2/17),
 with BAME also well-represented (July 2019: 4/17). There is no significant difference in attainment
 across groups. Among the current cohort of PGRs, four have recognised disabilities, requiring
 adjustments to study conditions and other support. They are actively supported by School and
 Faculty PGR directors, who also provide advice and guidance to supervisors. PGRs are supported
 by the University disability services. Some PGRs have flexible working arrangements (including
 parental leave and remote supervision); during 2020, most PGRs received support for home
 working from the School, including provision of computer hardware and software. Remote
 supervision and online support groups have worked well.

 The SEND project supports 16 industry-linked doctoral research fellowships, due to complete
 during 2021-22) at Keele (Table 2.1) and elsewhere (Table 2.2), with seven in Keele Computer
 Science (these 7 are included in statistics, above). The fellowship contract for each PGR includes
 an industrial partner, two academic supervisors, and full PhD registration, establishing a wide
 range of disciplinary and commercial links1.

 Table 2.1. Keele-based SEND doctoral fellowships and sponsoring companies
 Company          School     Title
  Connexica Ltd                        Augmented / Virutal Reality as Persuasive Technologies for
                                       Reducing Energy Consumption
  Synetica Ltd                         Blockchain for the Internet of Things
  Add2 Ltd                             Electric Vehicle Charging and Control
  Assured              Computer        Privacy-preserving federated learning for IoT
  Systems (UK)         Science
  Ltd
  Astec IT                             Data Analytics for Industrial IoT and Digital-Twins
  Solutions Ltd
  Giosprite Ltd                        Deep Reinforcement Learning for Smart Energy Networks

1https://www.keele.ac.uk/business/businesssupport/smartenergy/researchdevelopmentandinnovationprogramme/three-

yearsendresearchprojects/. Details are from fellowship contracts.

                                                                                                       Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Powelectrics                     Anomaly detection for IoT Time- series
 Ltd
 JDSE Ltd         Chemical & Passivation of Transport Cylinders for Low Concentration Gas
                  Physical   Standards
                  Sciences

 Table 2.2. Other SEND doctoral fellowships and sponsoring companies
 Company          University          School           Title
 Beta Research Huddersfield           Computing &      Transient Energy Storage Sources for
 Ltd                                  Engineering      Future Electrical Power Systems
 HVDC             Huddersfield        Computing &      Grid-forming Virtual Synchronous
 Technologies                         Engineering      Machine technique
 Power            Lincoln             Engineering      MPC for Power-Constrained EV charging
 Technologies
 Ltd
 DRM Technic      Staffordshire       Creative Art &   Measuring Particulate Emissions from
                                      Engineering      Small Combustion Plant Process
 Adelan Ltd       Aston               Engineering &    Control Strategies for Micro-Tubular Solid
                                      Applied          Oxide Fuelcells
                                      Science
 Lucideon Ltd     Warwick             Warwick       Flash Sintering of Ceramic Electrolytes
                                      Manufacturing for Solid-State Batteries
                                      Group
 Environmental Northumbria            Mechanical &     Low carbon technology management and
 Essentials Ltd                       Construction     safety
                                      Engineering
 Prime Hybrid     Wolverhampton       Engineering      Battery storage in domestic applications
 Energy                                                and communal mini-smart grids

 Fan leads the SEND doctoral fellowships as a doctoral training centre (DTC), with joint training
 and cohort meetings. We have a strategic objective of winning a funded DTC, focusing on AI for
 smart energy, transport, sustainability, data science (e.g. health or medical analytics): we have
 had several highly-rated but ultimately unsuccessful bids -- notably AI and smart energy, with
 Southampton (EPSRC, 2018).

 In addition to registered PGRs, Fan supervises 2 visiting PhDs (China CSC), whilst Woolley and
 Andras have hosted Erasmus+ visiting PhDs.

 External PhD studentships are summarised in Table 2.1. We have one current Faculty-funded
 student, and have had several partial Faculty scholarships in the past.

 Table 2.1. Grants spend, PGR external funding, 2014-July 2020
  Source         Short Title                   start           end         Lead         Spend
                                                                           Supervisor

 Iraq Min.       Time Evolving Streams         9/17/2014       9/16/2017                51,000
 High. Edu. &    Analysis for SPAM
 Sci.            Detection

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Embassy of    Information security and      1/12/2015     1/11/2018                   53,100
 the United    Human computer
 Arab Emirates interaction
 NITDA           Text mining for systematic 2/23/2015      2/22/2018    ANDRAS         51,000
                 literature reviews in
                 software engineering
 University of   Testing large scale         9/29/2015     9/28/2018                   57,000
 Philadelphia    software on the cloud
 (Jordan)
 Libyan Min.     Issues in acceptance of     4/18/2016     4/17/2019                   52,798
 HE Sci. Res.    VLEs for elearning
 University      Guidelines for the          12/1/2017     11/30/2020 DE               29,714
 Hospitals of    Production of Medical                                QUINCEY
 North           Guidelines Mobile
 Midlands        Applications

 Keele’s PGR Code of Practice mandates that PGRs develop a Personal Development and
 Learning Plan. Our School PGR Director (Misirli) coordinates internal training to complement
 University (Keele Doctoral Academy) and Faculty training (e.g., Polack leads training on research
 impact, and Woolley on research ethics and data management). External training is funded by
 the School and Faculty (e.g., 2 PGRs attended BCS HCI Statistics Masterclass, 2020). PGRs and
 their elected representatives engage proactively in creation and delivery of training activities;
 there are annual school, faculty and university PGR conferences (online 2020-21).

 PGRs participate in all departmental research events contributing strongly to theme meetings. The
 success of our inclusive and supportive approach is evidenced by 2019 PRES (CS scored 91%
 overall, 98% on research skills, cf. University average, 86%).

 Technical support and administration
 Support for the School of Computer Science and Mathematics comprise 3.8 FTE technical support
 team (Section 3), and a full School administrative team complemented by four staff supporting
 industrial engagement.
 1
  https://www.keele.ac.uk/business/businesssupport/smartenergy/researchdevelopmentandinnov
 ationprogramme/three-yearsendresearchprojects/. Details are from fellowship contracts.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 During the REF period, our research income is £1.6m (202% increase from REF 2014).
 Average annual income has risen by 116%. This omits grants supporting PhD students, and
 grants where no spend had occurred by July 2020 (De Quincey: AHRC; Lam: University
 Hospitals of the North Midlands Trust).

 The raw figures hide the extent to which funding supports collaborative research. For example,
 Channon’s collaborations on theory and application of evolution have been supported by a
 series of BBSRC grants, whilst the Keele smart energy initiatives and collaborations are
 recognised by EPSRC (EnergyRev), BEIS/ERDF (SEND), Innovate/SLES (ZCR) and Innovate
 (UrbanX). Our success with large collaborative grants is allowing us to achieve our objective of
 recruiting a strong postdoctoral community, which, in turn, strengthens our ability to compete for
 grant funding.

 Kyriacou and Andras lead an Innovate UK KTP with Bentley Motors valued at almost £250,000;

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 two further Innovate UK KTPs were completed during the period (de Quincey et al, KBC Process
 Technologies Ltd: 2016-18, £130,000; Lam et al, Wood Mitchell Printers: 2015-17, £175,000).

 Like most computer science departments, our main funding target is EPSRC. However, because
 all research-active staff are engaged with interdisciplinary and non-academic collaborators, we
 are not prescriptive. For example, in the 12 months to October 2019, we submitted 7 proposals to
 EPSRC (“first grant”, responsive mode and call bids), 2 bids to BEIS, and one bid each to: BBSRC
 (responsive mode), Innovate UK, British Council, British Computer Society, Cultural Evolution
 Society, Yoti Ltd, Sarcoma UK, Cancer Research UK, Alan Turing Institute, Nvidia and Amazon;
 during the same period, Fan and Polack were academic leads in partnership bids to Industrial
 Strategy Fund and to DfT/Adept.

 For PGRs, in addition to the 8 SEND fellows, we had one BBSRC case studentship £92k (Lam:
 2013-17) and one EPSRC doctoral training studentship (Kyriacou: Regenerative Medicine CDT).
 Overseas and other awards are shown in Table 3.2.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 Staff and PGRs are co-located, sharing facilities with Mathematics. All facilities are available 24/7.
 During 2020, we have worked hard to maintain virtual machines and online access to all facilities,
 and to maintain interaction and research theme meetings, PGR meetings, and online PGR
 supervision.

 In addition to University-supported research computing, we host:
 ● private vScaler cloud, purchased with School and Faculty funds (£25,000) and maintained by
     vScaler/BIOS IT 2 (valued at ~£5,000 per annum), supporting AI/data analytics and cloud
     systems research (e.g., Ahmad, Andras, J. Cloud Computing (2019) https://doi.org/ggtz94);
 ● CUDA GPU cluster (512 virtual CPU cores, GPU compute capacity 256 teraflops: £100,000
     investment within REF period), supporting data analytics, evolutionary systems research and
     simulation.

 The cloud and cluster are used by other schools (e.g., medicine, life sciences, psychology, physics
 & chemistry), independently and in collaboration with UoA11 staff. Access is free for staff and
 student research.

 Other specialist teaching and research facilities include:
 ● state-of-the-art games lab, sponsored by Overclockers UK (~£60,000: 24 machines, plus
    accessories, maintenance and upgrades);
 ● virtual-reality lab;
 ● flexible research and meeting room that houses a robot lab with full camera tracking and
    simulation capability, and a makerspace (~£40,000).

 The robot lab has Vicom camera tracking and a range of flying and walking robots. We have two
 3D printers and a 3D scanner, primarily used in robotics and 3D model acquisition / reproduction
 (see virtual cuneiform impact case study). Our makerspace has Arduinos, Lego Mindstorm, and
 other “starter” robots,. Makersapce, VR and Overclockers’ Lab support significant outreach: e.g.
 we have a popular student-led robotics group which is enabling new directions in teaching and
 research, whilst the Overclockers’ Lab is a unique facility in the Stoke area.

 We have full access to SEND data (via Siemens’ Digital Energy Management System and
 “Mindsphere” platform), to be complemented during 2020-21 with transport livelab demonstration
 facilities and data (Simulate). All are available to any researcher, subject to ethics, data protection
 and curation arrangements. In addition, our collaboration with medical researchers and links to
 hospital research give us access to medical and health data, and associated domain expertise.


2 https://www.vscaler.com/vscaler-empowers-teaching-keele-university/


                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Our research facilities are maintained by the research software and hardware technical team.
 jointly with academic staff (Stanton, Misirli, Channon) to maximise usage and usability.

 A strategic objective is to build on our ever-widening industrial and academic links, working with
 the University to achieve its Strategy of making Keele a regional leader in digital services, teaching
 and research (a new digital centre will open in 2022). We also plan to create digital simulation and
 visualisation facilities to complement the smart energy demonstrator and transport livelab facilities
 at Keele, widening our impact on the social and environmental sustainability agendas for which
 Keele is famous (e.g., as world leaders in sustainable education, behavioural analysis and
 behaviour change; policy change).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 A notable feature of the research conducted by UoA11 staff is that almost all is undertaken in
 collaboration with companies, health trusts, and/or other academic disciplines. This is apparent
 in our selected outputs and case studies.

 Collaborations related to Smart Energy and Transport
 Keele is a sought-after partner for industry in the fields of smart energy and transport, with
 significant and growing impact on the sustainability agenda nationally and internationally. For
 instance, the key partnerships detailed in Section 1 include:

 ●   The Smart Energy Network Demonstrator (SEND: Fan, Cao): industrial and academic partners
     are listed in Tables 2.1 and 2.2. SEND researchers have a significant practical partnership
     with Siemens Plc., the lead contractor.
 ●   Zero Carbon Rugeley (CoIs Polack, Cao: Innovate PFER) is a consortium led by Engie PLC
     (full list of partners: https://www.rugeleypower.com/zero-carbon-rugeley-project). Like SEND,
     the research includes collaborations across the Keele Institute for Sustainable Futures.
 ●   Simulate Live Lab (Polack, DfT/Adept) is the only one of the eight DfT-funded live lab projects
     to have a full academic partner, alongside Staffs CC, Amey plc and Connected Places
     Catapult, and supporting nine industry-led feasibility projects (for full list, see
     https://www.keele.ac.uk/business/businesssupport/simulate/)
 ●   Fan and Cao work with Qbots Energy (Innovate UK: UrbanX project), which is implementing
     academic research such as Cao’s battery energy optimisation framework
     (https://doi.org/fdpb).
 ●   Fan is also cybersecurity lead on the Core EnergyREV (EP/S031863), a consortium of 12
     universities, led by Strathclyde.
 ●   Fan maintains links with Toshiba, and with a range of academic partners in smart energy and
     transport, e.g., Oxford and Leeds (https://doi.org/fdpb, https://doi.org/fdpc https://doi.org/fdpc)
     Aston and Sheffield (https://doi.org/gc79g8).

 Collaborations related to health and medicine
 We have extensive collaborations within Keele medical and related disciplines and with health
 trusts/hospitals, including pioneering work on data analytics, health monitoring, training, and
 various forms of app (Andras, Day, de Quincey, Lam, Kyriacou, Mandal, Woolley).

 The research reported in REF2014 and 2014 impact case studies (Lam, Day) continues, with
 partners from Oswestry (Orthopaedic Institute Ltd/RJAH) and University Hospital North Midlands.
 The work on analysis of time series and visual medical data is detailed in Section 1, representing
 a long-term collaboration with staff of the former Keele Institute for Science and Technology in
 Medicine, now at Aberdeen University.

 North Midlands Trust Charity funds research on app-based clinical care guidelines, (see Sections
 1, 3 and below: de Quincey: https://doi.org/fdw8). The research is a collaboration with Royal
 Stoke University Hospital, and surveying many other health trusts, then applying usability design


                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 expertise to create a bedside clinical guidelines app, which is being rolled out to 14 Trusts in 2021,
 with a further funded postdoc to support evaluation and development. This research collaboration
 is already generating interest and impact in clinical organisations.

 North Staffs Medical Institute is funding data analysis research due to start by 2021 (Lam: partner
 Great Ormond Street Respiratory Sleep Unit).

 Woolley’s research on the design and analysis of health-related devices led to her participation
 in Ambient Assisted Living EU COST Action "AAPELE": https://www.it.pt/Projects/Index/1921
 (2013-17); she continued to build on this collaboration in analysis of wearable health technology
 (Universidade da Beira Interior and Universidade Lusófona de Humanidades e Tecnologias),
 along with a PhD visitor from Georgian Technical University and Keele School of Health and
 Rehabilitation Keele, (e.g. https://doi.org/fdn6). Woolley’s groundbreaking research on adrenaline
 injection training was a collaboration University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust, and Birmingham
 City (https://doi.org/fdn7), whilst in 2017 Woolley and her collaborators at Manchester
 Metropolitan, Birmingham, and University Hospitals, Birmingham presented a collection of
 research under the title “the quantitative outpatient”, which received the best poster presentation
 award at European Federation for Medical Informatics Conference.

 Collaborations in theory and practice of evolution
 Our Evolutionary Systems team has a number of ongoing collaborations which reflect its
 importance in open-ended evolution and evolutionary robotics.

 Channon (see also Section 1) has ongoing collaborations in evolutionary theory, with applications
 in biological, health and environmental research, with Manchester (Environmental Research
 Institute; Evolution & Genomic Sciences) and Middlesex (Science & Technology). The research
 is summarised in papers and led to or was funded by a series of grants. For example,
 https://doi.org/skb reports research funded 2010-2013 by EPSRC £423k. Subsequent research
 funded by BBSRC £465k, 2014-2017 and BBSRC £268k , 2015-2018 is published in e.g.
 https://doi.org/bd7r -- 2016, Journal of Mathematical Biology; https://doi.org/cb9s --2017, PLOS
 Biology; https://doi.org/cf8w -- 2017, Scientific Reports; https://doi.org/cst8 -- 2018, ISME; and
 https://doi.org/ctm6 -- 2018, Heredity.

 Channon’s agenda-setting research on Open-Ended Evolution includes collaborations with
 Bedau (Reed College, USA; President of the International Society for Artificial Life 2001-2015)
 and Taylor (Monash University, Australia). The team founded the International OEE Workshop
 (https://workshops.alife.org/oee1/. Details in Section 1).

 In evolutionary robotics, Channon and Stanton are part of a team led by F. Iida (Cambridge Bio-
 Inspired Robotics Lab) that has a Leverhulme Trust proposal accepted for full application (2020):
 the research explores open-ended evolution of physical robots. Meanwhile, Stanton has a
 longterm collaboration with J. Moore (Grand Valley State University) on incremental evolutionary
 robotics (https://doi.org/cwwj, https://doi.org/ffm3, https://doi.org/fdz9, https://doi.org/ffm4).

 In social and behavioural evolution, Borg has two key collaborations: with S. Power, Edinburgh
 Napier (Keele ILAS Visiting Fellow 2019) on social evolution (e.g. https://doi.org/fgc9) ; and with
 M. Grove, Liverpool Archaeology on models of noise and historical evolution (e.g.
 https://doi.org/fgdc -- ALife conference best paper of 2020).

 Other significant academic collaborations
 The following summary exemplifies the range of our other collaborative research. Many more
 collaborations are noted in earlier sections and evidenced by co-authorships.
 ● Andras’ neuroscience work on voltage-sensitive dyes is an ongoing collaboration with
     Newcastle University (Neuroscience Institute, Digital Interaction Group, Electronic
     Engineering), and a wider network including Imperial College and South East University,
     China, (e.g. https://doi.org/fdxb).

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ●   De Quincey has a long-running collaboration with Keele Media and Communications (£337k
     AHRC Grant https://doi.org/gg24nc). He is also an authority on technology in pedagogy,
     where       he      works      primarily     with  Warwick      Mathematics     (JISC      grant:
     https://analytics.jiscinvolve.org/wp/2020/07/08/using-analytics-to-enhance-student-support-
     and-improve-learning/)
 ●   Mandal’s long-running collaboration with A*Star, Singapore (e.g. https://doi.org/fdxc) and with
     IIUT, Bhubaneswar, India (e.g https://doi.org/fdxd), has applied his machine learning and
     vision analysis technique to many data sets. Mandal is developing partnerships with the Keele
     Medical School, which funded a PGR scholarship and postdoc with P. Yeates, 2020-23. The
     same analysis approach is being applied to analysis of civil structures with Arcadis Ltd,
     Birmingham, UK (e.g., unfunded EP/V006061).
 ●   Misirli‘s significant work on computational synthetic biology (Section 1) sees collaboration with
     the ongoing £5m international consortium led by Imperial College and Newcastle University
     Centres for Synthetic Biology. His many contributions to the SBOL language and to synthetic
     biology repository and workflow frameworks have collaborators such as Universities of
     Washington, Boston and Utah in US (https://doi.org/fdxf, https://doi.org/gcwg8v), as well as
     the academic and industry partners listed on the SBOL website, https://sbolstandard.org/.
 ●   Ortolani maintains his collaborations with Universities of Missouri Science and Technology
     and Kentucky, US (e.g.https://doi.org/fdw7, https://doi.org/gdwffd) and University of Palermo,
     Italy (e.g. https://doi.org/fdw6).
 ●   Polack’s work on simulation fitness for purpose and software engineering builds on
     collaborations with York Biology, Medicine and Electronic Engineering (e.g.
     https://doi.org/fdw5), Computer Science (e.g. https://doi.org/fdw4) and others (e.g.
     https://doi.org/f7pd87, https://doi.org/ff7v). Recent collaborations include King’s College,
     London         (e.g.      https://doi.org/fdw3),   McMaster       and      Toronto,     Canada
     (https://richpaige.github.io/uncertainty2020/, https://doi.org/ggqrnv).
 ●   In addition to her health-related collaborations, above, Woolley works with Manchester
     Metropolitan, University of Nottingham Ningbo, China, and Institut für Archäologische
     Wissenschaften, Goethe-Universität, Germany, on acquisition of 3D models and virtual
     reconstruction (e.g. https://doi.org/fdw2) the research underlying the virtual cuneiform impact
     case study.

 Major funded networks in which we participate include
 ● EPSRC EnergyRev consortium (Fan, above)
 ● EPSRC MDE-Net £463k (Polack) led by King’s College, London and Edinburgh University.
 ● EU DERLAB (Fan) (https://der-lab.net/): EU consortium of leaders in distributed energy
    research, which aims to develop technology requirements and quality criteria.

 Also, arising from our major industrial collaborations in smart energy and transport, Fan and
 Polack, respectively, represent Keele on (a) ERA network: the Midlands research centre of
 excellence in energy and sustainability and (b) the Midlands innovation transport group.
 ● In October 2020, through the ERA network, Keele became a partner in the new Centre for
    Postdoctoral Development in Infrastructure, Cities and Energy (C-DICE: Research England
    funded, £4m), which will further enhance our smart energy and transport research and
    collaborations.

 Wider contributions to research and economy
 Our staff make a significant contribution to the discipline. Academics within the unit serve on many
 research bodies. Examples from the current REF period include the following:

 UKRI:
 ● EPSRC Full College members: Andras, Brereton, Channon, Fan, Polack, Woolley: in 2019,
   Woolley received a EPSRC review commendation; she served on CDT panels in 2018;
   Channon serves as a panel and interview panel member
 ● BBSRC proposal reviews: Channon


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Other UK funding organisations:
 ● Royal Society Panel Member: Andras
 ● Carnegie Trust S.E.T., Research Assessor: Polack
 ● UK Commonwealth Scholarships Commission, Academic Adviser: Lam

 International funders:
 ● EU H2020 reviewer: Andras
 ● Portuguese Foundation for Science and Technology reviewer: Fan
 ● Qatar National Research Fund, reviewer: Fan
 ● Research Council of the Sultanate of Oman, reviewer: Fan
 ● Innovation Funding Agency of Belgium, reviewer: Fan
 ● Dutch Research Council (NWO), Complexity Panel (2017-18): Polack
 ● FWF Austrian Science Fund (2017, 2019), reviewer: Polack
 ● FIT - IT Austrian Research Promotion Agency (FFG) panel member: Andras

 Examples of our current editorial roles include: Andras (Elsevier Cognitive Systems Research);
 Fan (IEEE Access; Associate Editor: IET Smart Cities). Fan was also guest editor of a Special
 Issue of Journal of Network and Computer Applications on “Smart World Systems, Applications,
 and Technologies”. Channon was guest editor of ALife Journal special editions on open ended
 evolution (Section 1).

 Examples of research invitations during the REF period include:
 ● Andras: keynote to Trust in Intelligent Machines, Edinburgh, 2018
 ● Channon: Invited talk, Robotics Seminar Series, University of Cambridge, 2019
 ● de Quincey: Keynote at Academic Practice and Technology conference 2017
    https://aptconference.org.uk/index.php/apt/apt2017/schedConf/overview
 ● de Quincey: “Who speaks for Muslims?” British Academy panel discussion.Audio:
    https://www.britac.ac.uk/audio/who-speaks-muslims 2018
 ● Fan, invited speaker at UK-KSA Workshop on clean energy and AI, 2019; Energy Live Expo,
    London, 2019; UK-UAE Science Collaboration Symposium on Clean & Renewable Energy,
    2018; China-UK Energy research partnership symposium (USTB, Tsinghua, JITRI), Jan. 2020
 ● Fan: Invited panellist, PFER showcase, London, 2020
 ● Fan: Invited lecturer, ICET (International clean energy talent programme), Sweden, 2019
 ● Polack: Dagstuhl seminars invited participant (2018: no.19481, 2019: no.18491);
 ● Polack: Shonan seminar invited participant (2020: no.168 -- COVID postponement to 2021)
 ● Polack: Festschrift invited chapters for Springer: From Astrophysics to Unconventional
    Computation (https://doi.org/ff7r); and Journal of Object Technology Special Issue 19(3)
    dedicated to Martin Gogolla (https://doi.org/ff7v)
 ● Polack: Member of Scientific Advisory Panel, Premier project, 2020-2026 (EU Partnership for
    Health IMI, grant 875508: https://imi-premier.eu/)
 ● Stanton: “Science Lives Here” event, A generalist AI panel, Royal Institution, 2019:
    https://soundcloud.com/royal-institution/a-generalist-ai-ri-science-podcast-45
 ● James Mitchell, final year PGR working clinical guidelines usability and app support
    (supervisor: de Quincey) is invited Vice-Chair of the International Medical Informatics
    Association Students and Emerging Professional SIG (2019-21) (https://imia-
    medinfo.org/wp/student-and-emerging-professionals-special-interest-group-sep-sig/) and
    Early Career Lead for BCS Health and Care.

 Other awards and recognition include:
 ● In 2019, Kitchenham was recipient of IEEE CS TCSE Distinguished Women in Science and
    Engineering (WISE) Leadership Award.
 ● In 2014, Kitchenham received the ACM SigSoft Impact Award for her seminal 2004 paper
    Evidenced-based software engineering (https://doi.org/crc8n5)
 ● In 2016, Polack was awarded an ACM Ten Year Most Influential Paper Award for 2006
    MoDELS conference paper, Merging Models with the Epsilon Merging Language by Kolovos,
    Paige and Polack. (https://doi.org/cssn9v)

                                                                                       Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ●     BCS Health & Care Scholarship Award 2019: James Mitchell (PhD, supervised by De
       Quincey): clinical guideline delivery.
 ●     Best paper awards include: Borg et al., ALife Conference, 2020: https://doi.org/fgdc; Misirli et
       al., IEEE Symposium on Computational Intelligence and Bioinformatics and Computational
       Biology, 2014: https://doi.org/fgk2; and Polack et al., Conference on Operations Research and
       Enterprise Systems 2016: https://doi.org/ffm7.

 Some of the journals for which staff reviewed repeatedly during the REF period are: ALife Journal
 (Andras, Channon, Polack, Stanton); SOSYM Journal (Polack); IEEE Trans. Neur. Netw. Learn
 Sys. (Andras); IEEE Trans. Intelligent Transportation Systems, and IEEE Trans Image
 Processing (Mandal).

 Some selected examples of our international conference activities include:
 ● Artificial Life Conference (ALife): Regular PC / reviewers throughout REF period: Andras,
   Borg, Channon, Polack, Stanton.
 ● ALife Workshop co-organisers (three international Open-Ended Evolution Workshops; four
   international Social Learning and Cultural Evolution Workshops): Channon; Borg, Andras
 ● Models Conference: PC / reviewer throughout REF period; PC Member for the MODELS ACM
   Student Research Competition-track (2020), EduSymp@Models (regularly): Polack. (Polack
   also reviews regularly for conferences such as ECMFA and ICSE.)
 ● Models Workshop co-chair: Uncertainty@Models workshop (2020); Models EduSymp (2019)
   : Polack
 ● ACM Digital Health Conference PC and Poster/Demo Chair: De Quincey (2015, 2016)
 ● IEEE Smart World Congress Programme Chair: Fan (2019)
 ● International Workshop on BioDesign Automation: Misirli, organiser (2016) and regular PC
   member.
 ● Emerging Research in Electronics, Computer science and Technology conference, advisory
   committee and invited speaker (2018): Mandal.

 Professors Kitchenham and Brereton founded the international EASE conference, and have
 been involved in chairing, PC and organisation throughout its 25-year existence.

 We are also committed to growing Keele’s profile by hosting events and conferences. In addition
 to events noted elsewhere, Keele would have hosted 2020 BCS HCI Conference (Chair: Woolley;
 organising chairs: de Quincey, Misirli, Ortolani, Mandal), the national (and increasingly
 international) showcase for the human interface of computer science. Due to Covid-19 the
 conference has been rearranged to take place in Keele in 2022.

 2
     https://www.vscaler.com/vscaler-empowers-teaching-keele-university/




                                                                                               Page 16
