Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Nottingham

 Unit of Assessment: Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience (UOA4)

 1: Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Overview
 Our vision is to deliver scientific research and societal impact through advancing scholarship and
 its implementation across the broad spectrum of psychology, psychiatry and neuroscience.
 The university hosts a vibrant and stimulating research environment in which we engage in
 discovery, applied and health science to advance knowledge and deliver impact. Our return is
 based on a multidisciplinary team of 93 FTE staff, from the School of Psychology (SP) 51.6 FTE,
 the Divisions of Psychiatry and Applied Psychology (DPAP) and Clinical Neuroscience (DCN) in
 the School of Medicine (SM) 35.4 FTE, and the School of Life Sciences (SLS) 6 FTE. We have
 grown by ~75% (up from 53.2 FTE) since REF2014 and are proud to have supported 327
 successful PhD awards in the assessment period. Other notable achievements include:
    Actively delivering patient benefit: for example, leading the mental health theme in the NIHR-
     funded (£20M since 2014) CLAHRC/ARC regional collaboration to improve the quality,
     delivery and effectiveness of healthcare in the East Midlands.
    MindTech, the NIHR-funded centre for interdisciplinary, clinically-applied research in digital
     technology and mental health, which leveraged >£109M in grant funding, with >80 projects
     recruiting >14,000 participants including major trials of digital technology for mental health.
    Directly influencing policy and shaping national and international guidelines (e.g. NICE, NHS
     England, WHO) for those with auditory impairments, multiple sclerosis (MS), attention-
     deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and schizophrenia, and for trans and gender-diverse
     people.
    Engaging with and being funded by industry (over £1M in assessment period) to improve
     real-life impact e.g. Ford, Jaguar Land Rover, The Together Agency, Health Data Research
     UK, Oticon, Tokyo Electron.
    Demonstrating impact across the breadth of our disciplines, with local and global research
     involving a diverse range of partners. For example, research collaboration with Voluntary
     Services Overseas (VSO) examining the effectiveness of an innovative educational
     intervention in low income countries, joint winner of the $15M Global Learning XPRIZE.
    Gaining £34.6M research grant income from £47.9M in awards, £2M university strategic
     funding, and benefitting as co-applicants from in total £87M in awards distributed through
     NHS trusts or other bodies.
    Contributing over 2,300 peer-reviewed publications in discipline-leading journals, including
     the Nature series, Lancet series, British Medical Journal, Brain, Neuron and Current Biology.
    Average field weighted citation impact of 1.76 exceeds the global average with 76% more
     citations than expected; 19.8% of our publications are in the top 10% citation percentiles
     (field-weighted)’ and 41.2% involve international collaboration.
    Continuing to make significant contributions to Open Science (e.g. the PsychoPy
     experimental platform used widely across academic and industry settings, Human
     Connectome Project (HCP) processing), public engagement in science (Summer Scientist
     Week, Café Connect) and patient and public involvement (PPI) in research (MindTech PPI
     panel and CANDAL annual conference).
 We play a key role in cross-university interdisciplinary initiatives (especially the Precision
 Imaging Beacon of Excellence and the Interdisciplinary Research Cluster in Health and
 Wellbeing; REF5a;2.1a), have extensive academic collaborations with other institutions, and
 lead major university-NHS collaborations including the Hearing and Mental Health Technology
 themes within the Nottingham Biomedical Research Centre (BRC), Institute of Mental Health

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (IMH) and East Midlands Applied Research Collaboration (ARC). The BRC drives innovation in
 experimental science and translates research into breakthrough treatments, technologies and
 medicines; IMH advances healthcare through promoting innovation, evaluation and clinical
 excellence across NHS services; and the ARC focuses on improving the quality, delivery and
 effectiveness of healthcare in the East Midlands. We are strongly committed to promoting and
 delivering a fair and transparent environment for all staff as demonstrated by successfully
 holding and renewing Silver Athena Swan awards since 2008 (SP), 2013 (SLS) and 2015 (SM).
 Our research is conducted in specialized laboratory and buildings across university sites,
 including co-locations within the NHS, allowing easy access to patient groups. Neuroimaging
 studies utilise and enhance (through methodological developments) state-of-the-art imaging
 facilities and expertise within the Sir Peter Mansfield Imaging Centre. Additional bespoke
 facilities include human cognitive testing facilities (e.g. EEG, TMS, driving stimulator, ‘Toddler
 lab’), biomedical-based laboratories (e.g. preclinical scanning, surgical and behavioural suites
 for in vivo work and high quality microscopy services), auditory laboratories for basic and clinical
 studies, and high performance computing (HPC) services for large scale data processing. We
 partner the £5.1M NIHR-funded East Midlands Research Design Service (RDS) providing high
 quality methodology and funding advice for applied health research.
 1.2 Research vision and overall strategy
 We aim to enhance understanding of psychological and neurological bases of behaviour and
 dysfunction whilst striving to improve patient care and deliver benefits to wider society. Our
 vision is to deliver scientific research and societal impact by advancing scholarship and its
 implementation. Our research vision is underpinned by our discipline-specific strengths and
 diverse research groupings that span the breadth of fundamental through to clinical research in
 psychology, psychiatry and neuroscience. This is delivered through our strategies for research,
 knowledge exchange and impact (see 1.7).
 1.3 Achievement of strategic aims for research during the assessment period
 We achieved our REF2014 aim to build research capacity in computational neuroscience, social
 cognition and the psychology of mental health with 13 R&T appointments. We now have critical
 mass in Computational Neuroscience, achieved by the appointment of two professorial staff,
 Humphries and van Rossum (joint with the School of Mathematical Sciences), who secured
 funding for 6 postdoctoral scientists to work on interdisciplinary projects, including the
 computational role of sleep in memory processing and the effect of metabolic constraints on
 neural computation. We led in establishing a new interdisciplinary MSc in Computational
 Neuroscience, Cognition and AI which will feed the pipeline to funded PhD opportunities, e.g.,
 via the university BBSRC and EPSRC doctoral training programmes. We now host the annual
 UK Neural Computation meeting.
 Social Cognition developed into an area of strength through the appointment of 5 staff who also
 consolidate our expertise in the psychology of mental health. We established a new MSc in
 Developmental Disorders which will also feed the PhD pipeline. SP has long-standing
 collaborations with DPAP which complement and join up our mental health research (e.g.,
 S_Jackson and G_Jackson; Townsend and Daley, Glazebrook, Sayal, Arcelus).
 We continued to capitalise on our track record in Cognitive Neuroscience. New achievements,
 building on the Nottingham Child Neuroimaging Initiative launched 2013, were supported by
 external charity funding, NIHR, and the Precision Imaging Beacon.
 New clinical research groups included Clinical Neuropsychology, bringing together researchers,
 clinicians, patients and the public to develop research portfolios for mental health and
 psychological wellbeing of people with long-term neurological conditions, specifically MS, stroke,
 and traumatic brain injuries. Arcelus was appointed as the first Clinical Professor in Transgender
 Health in the UK. The new Transgender Health and Mental Health group works collaboratively
 with the Nottingham Centre for Transgender Health, the only clinical academic centre in
 transgender health in the UK and one of only three across Europe.
 We achieved our REF2014 aim to build research capacity in the areas of psychiatry and applied
 psychology through the IMH partnership. Notable examples include: the NIHR CLAHRC/ARC

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Morriss leads the mental health theme); the NIHR MindTech centre (Hollis), which provides
 infrastructure (staff, PPI and pump priming) to support interdisciplinary clinically-applied research
 in digital technology and mental health; the NIHR Nottingham BRC mental health and
 technology theme (Hollis); and the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group, an international centre of
 excellence for systematic reviews (1,300 reviewers in 41 countries) to review schizophrenia
 therapies and maintain a sophisticated and large database of clinical trials (>300), which trained
 over 100 researchers in systematic reviews. A further aim was to develop the Centre for
 Dementia established in 2014 following establishment of a chair (Dening). Subsequent senior
 academic appointments included Orrell, Stephan (both Chairs), Rajkumar and Yates.
 We strengthened hearing research by integrating the MRC Institute of Hearing Research into the
 university and subsequently appointing three new researchers (Cederroth, Hadley, Sollini).
 Kitterick leads the hearing theme of the BRC. Major research achievements include advancing
 core outcomes and standards for questionnaire translation (Hall, Kitterick) and demonstrating
 that functional near-infrared spectroscopy offers an objective measure of speech intelligibility
 (Hartley). We also succeeded in our aim to expand neuroimaging research, especially into new
 analysis methods and understating brain architecture, with the appointments of Sotiropoulus,
 Bastiani and Chappell (Chair). Within SLS we created the division of Physiology, Pharmacology
 and Neuroscience (PPN) to deepen our molecular understanding of human health.
 1.4 Achievement of strategic aims for impact during the assessment period
 Our aim has been to embed the importance of impact throughout our research culture. We
 appointed 5 academic staff at different stages of their career as impact champions. Best practice
 is disseminated through their work on local research committees and their cross-faculty activities
 to support university-level initiatives (e.g. Pitchford is an executive panel member for the
 university’s ESRC Impact Accelerator Account (IAA) and academic lead for the Partnerships for
 Impact Network).
 The impact champions work with impact support staff and research and business development
 managers to develop research impact from planning to delivery. All staff are encouraged to
 engage in impact training in the unit (e.g. sessions for ECRs and PGRs and at staff awaydays)
 and the wider university (e.g. Impact Leaders Programme, Institute for Policy and Engagement
 training). PGRs receive impact training and are encouraged to engage in impact activities
 throughout their doctoral degrees. Training includes the writing and implementation of impact
 plans, to maximise impact potential from the conception of the research project to beyond its
 funded lifecycle. Clinical doctorate students (and other PGRs with a clinical focus) routinely
 present their research proposals and findings to PPI groups.
 We are supported by the Nottingham Impact Accelerator (NIA) to support outreach, innovation
 and business engagement (REF5a;2.2). All staff are encouraged to apply for funding including
 external UKRI/GCRF IAA funds and internally-funded impact schemes (IAA, Knowledge
 Exchange awards, Hermes Fellowships; school research committee support).
 Research from the Clinical Neuropsychology group fed into the 2018 surveillance proposal for
 MS in adults (NICE guideline CG186). Cochrane schizophrenia reviews are widely embedded in
 NICE guidelines and internationally (e.g. WHO mhGAP). The group’s clinical trials in Brazil, India
 and Lebanon on effective management for acutely aggressive psychotic people changed
 guidance and practice (NICE [NG10]). Research by Transgender Health and Mental Health has
 been adopted by the WHO to support the new diagnostic category for the ICD-11. In 2017, the
 team created and validated the first outcome tool for transgender health services, subsequently
 translated into six languages and currently under consideration as the outcome measurement by
 NHS England. Longitudinal studies on the role of gender-affirming hormone treatment in mental
 health shaped global guidelines for the treatment of trans and gender diverse people (Standards
 of Care edition 8), currently being developed by the World Professional Association of
 Transgender Health in collaboration with Johns Hopkins University.
 Technologies evaluated by MindTech and adopted by the NHS included Alpha-stim Cranial
 Stimulation (for treatment of Generalised Anxiety Disorder) and ProReal (avatar programme for
 treatment of borderline personality disorder and emotional difficulties). The Nottingham Child
 Neuroimaging Initiative is currently developing a portable electrical stimulation device for home

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 use (patented) through a university spin-out Neurotherapeutics. This self-managed therapy
 reduces tics and unwanted urges in patients with Tourette syndrome, and ~£650K of external
 investment has been raised to conduct a placebo-controlled clinical trial.
 1.5 How the selected case studies relate to strategy for achieving impact
 Impact has been realised within wide-ranging national and international policy arenas, on
 professional practice and on research methodology and teaching. Impact cases studies (ICSs)
 were developed from work in the Impact Leaders Programme or IAA-funded projects and
 several examples are award-winning. Feedback from a series of internal reviews has been used
 to further develop and evidence impact:
       Making Britain’s roads safe: Translating hazard theory into road safety practice
        (Chapman); research programme using the Nottingham Integrated Transport and
        Environmental Simulation facility, with impact activity supported by the Impact Leaders
        Programme, Institute of Policy and Engagement and collaboration with Lodestone
        Communications.
       Transforming the selection of medical practitioners in the UK and Australia with the
        application of a novel competency model (Ferguson); recruitment tool rolled out to the
        Medical Royal Colleges, drawing on IAA-funded activity.
       PsychoPy: Increased efficiency and capacity for behavioural studies through the
        development of high-precision, open-source software (Peirce); demonstrates global
        adoption by industrial, governmental and educational institutions, averaging 25,000 users
        per month; highlighting our commitment to open science.
       Unlocking talent through tablet technology: Raising attainment in numeracy and literacy
        skills in marginalised children worldwide (Pitchford); detailing the global impact of a
        research collaboration with not-for-profit onebillion and VSO, examining the effectiveness
        of an innovative educational intervention in low-income countries.
       Transforming worldwide policy and practice to prevent psychosocial risks and work-
        related stress at work (Leka); recommendations adopted by the EU and WHO.
       Transforming diagnostic assessment of ADHD in children and young people (Hollis);
        ‘QbTest’ a computerised tool adopted nationally by all Academic Health Science
        Networks.
       Tackling the taboo and lack of awareness about menopause and work for mid-life
        women (Griffiths).
 1.6 Approach to supporting interdisciplinary research
 Trans-, inter- and multi-disciplinary initiatives are fundamental to our research vision to address
 longstanding and emerging research challenges and are supported by a number of platforms as
 follows:
 Our joint NHS/university NIHR BRC’s mission is to drive innovation in experimental science and
 translate research into breakthrough treatments, new technologies and advanced medicines. Its
 themes encompass a number of our research topics, including neuroimaging, neuromodulation,
 hearing, and mental health and technology.
 The Precision Imaging Beacon aims to translate improved understanding of diseases with the
 development of revolutionary personalised treatments to have the greatest impact on society.
 We have 27 Beacon members (from PGR to professor) who collaborate in Beacon-funded
 projects and benefit from Beacon-sponsored activities. Beacon project funding of over £30K
 included: computational models of white matter networks; novel neuroimaging approaches to
 investigate brain correlates of Tourette syndrome; establishing an imaging protocol to measure
 locus coeruleus structure and function in mental health and neurological disorders; AI diagnostic
 support for medical imaging via gaze tracking; and the Global Alliance of Medical Excellence
 network (Jung champions our links with Korea). The Beacon has also supported UOA4
 appointments from fellow (Bastiani, Jung) to chair (Chappell), two non-independent research


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fellows, 3 PhD students, and enhanced our research culture with a series of funded workshops,
 seminars and ‘Evidence Club’ drop-in sessions with a senior statistician and information
 specialist.
 UOA4 members participate in an Interdisciplinary Research Cluster in Health and Wellbeing.
 This is a university-funded, academic boundary-crossing initiative which fosters networking
 opportunities to develop new research with colleagues in economics, pharmacy, arts and
 humanities, environment and food sciences, and other medical and healthcare specialties.
 Our expansion in Computational Neuroscience represents a substantial multidisciplinary
 investment. Similarly, work on mechanisms of brain injury and disease transcends traditional
 disciplinary boundaries. Staff engagement initiatives led to potential research directions to
 prioritise based on the availability of funding and opportunities to develop cross-faculty
 collaborations, e.g. the Psychology of Ageing forum and a Mental Health and Wellbeing network.
 Neuroscience@Nottingham has held an annual event to bring together neuroscientists across
 the faculties.
 1.7 Future strategy: aims and objectives for the next REF period
 Our strategies are process-based and are developed following consultations with staff
 (workshops and awaydays; drop-in sessions) and the wider research community (members of
 BPS research board, members of UKRI and NIHR panels). We have shown agility in our
 responses to the Covid-19 pandemic in the REF period in terms of practical support and policy
 advice (Daley, Hollis, Pitchford), measuring changes in mental healthcare informatics during
 lockdown (Nixon), research on behavioural responses and psychological effects of the pandemic
 (Ferguson, Tungenc), risk assessment of immune suppressant medication in MS (das Nair),
 associated ethical and societal considerations (Cassidy, Townsend), and the development of
 new online platforms and toolkits (Madan, Pitchford).

 Specific commitments include to:
 1) increase the number of successful fellowship and other research applications to support
    ECRs to build independent research careers (with 50% obtaining funding);
 2) consolidate research in interlinked research groups within the IMH, and with local NHS
    Trusts and interdisciplinary research clusters across the university, and other networks
    nationally and internationally to increase research capacity and success;
 3) lead innovation through advances in research methodology and PPI;
 4) develop capacity and opportunities for social care-related research in mental health;
 5) develop individualised action plans for knowledge exchange and impact;
 6) grow our portfolio of research with a neurodiversity or other EDI focus;
 7) build on existing research in the Centre for Mood Disorders; mood disorders also feature in
    MindTech’s portfolio, four of the subthemes of the BRC, the Precision Imaging Beacon and
    new ARC;
 8) increase NC3Rs funding (building on recent successes);
 9) pursue integrative research programmes in PPN, from structural and functional studies of
    individual molecules to whole organism neuroscience.
 1.8 Mechanisms to take our strategies forward
 Our research, impact and knowledge exchange leads promote strategic priorities at senior
 management groups and represent their schools/divisions at faculty/school research boards.
 Strategy leads and Heads of School/Division use a range of opportunities to make themselves
 available to staff informally, e.g. at weekly staff coffee meetings, career development lunches,
 one-to-one sessions and open-door drop-in sessions (replaced with Teams chat forums since
 Covid-19). Research group and centre directors represent us at both the IMH and DPAP
 strategy and management committees. The head of DPAP (Orrell) is Director of the IMH and sits


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on the School Management Committee to facilitate the development and implementation of
 research policy.
 We support grant applications with bespoke training for ECRs and Assistant/Associate
 Professors. Associate Professors can also shadow and/or deputise for the research leads at
 faculty/school research boards, to network, observe, and contribute to research strategy
 development.
 We continue pump priming funding for promising proof of concept projects and support
 applications through a variety of university mechanisms (Faculty of Science Paper Enhancement
 Fund, MRC Confidence in Concept). To promote staff engagement with our strategy to promote
 interdisciplinarity (and encourage collaboration across research groupings) we are fostering
 cross-cutting networks to address long-standing and emerging research challenges in healthy
 ageing, mental health and digital technologies.
 1.9 Open research environment
 We are committed to open access (OA) publication, open research data and open science.
 Researchers are required to make research outputs (including datasets) open access and
 deposit them in the university repository. The university supports a mixed green and gold model
 of OA publication. We have agreements with major publishers to fully/partially waive article-
 processing charges. UKRI/Charity Open Access Fund block grants are used for research funded
 by UKRI, Wellcome Trust and other health research charities. Additional gold OA is supported
 through school and divisional funds.
 Initiatives to promote open science include:
       central training courses on OA, research data management and transparency of scientific
        methods;
       awaydays and internal seminars to update staff on open science initiatives;
       developing research policies and promotions criteria based on the openness and
        reproducibility of research;
       encouraging publication of methods protocols and use of open registries for prospective
        trials;
       use of externally searchable open datasets (with fully-documented/automated analysis
        pipelines and processes);
       funding for staff to publish data articles (‘Data in Brief’);
       making peer review histories open access;
       editorial board membership in prominent open access journals (Royal Society Open
        Science, Cortex) which make transparency and openness a requirement for publication;
       creation of an open-source project providing a graphical user interface for interactions
        with research data, and ANIMA, a data-sharing initiative for neuroimaging meta-analyses
        (Reid);
       PsychoPy (Peirce), an open-source application allowing non-programmers to run a wide
        range of neuroscience, psychology and psychophysics experiments, used widely across
        academic and industry settings.
 Researchers routinely deposit all data, code, scripts and supplementary materials from
 published outputs, using a number of repositories including the Open Science Foundation, Open
 Science Framework, github, the Elsevier Zenodo and Mendeley Data Platform and the university
 research data management repository. We have contributed to a number of publicly-released
 neuroimaging databases with MRI scanning protocols and the NIH Lifespan extension to the
 HCP (Bastiani, Sotiropoulos). Sotiropoulos led on HCP processing pipelines which have
 attracted >1500 Google Scholar citations and co-developed the FSL open-source software one
 of the de-facto packages for brain image analysis (with >5,000 users in ~1,000 institutions
 worldwide). Sotiropoulos was also lead author for a number of FSL toolboxes, including

                                                                                          Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 “bedpostx”, “eddy”, “probtrackx_gpu”, “xtract” with >1400 Google Scholar citations of his FSL
 contributions since 2014. The UK Biobank (Sotiropoulos) provides population-level
 neuroimaging data from 100,000 subjects, with 50,000 already available to the community. The
 ERC Developing HCP (Sotiropoulos) provides data from 500 neonates, scanned within 2 weeks
 of birth. Bastiani has developed open-source software used widely by thousands of researchers:
 for automated processing of neonatal diffusion MRI data; for automated diffusion MRI quality
 control; and for estimation of asymmetric fibre orientation distributions from diffusion MRI data.
 All PhD theses are similarly deposited, attracting over 29K downloads in SP alone, of which 12
 have been downloaded more than 500 times.
 We also contribute to the university Digital Research Strategic Plan which included piloting the
 use of electronic laboratory notebooks (Holmes).
 1.10 How Nottingham UOA4 supports a culture of research integrity
 Ethics
 We follow the rigorous standards of the university’s Research Integrity Code underpinned with
 extensive training in research ethics and methods. Research with human participants adheres to
 BPS research guidelines, BPS Codes of Ethics and Conduct, Human Research Ethics and
 publishing standards. The University Code of Practice on Handling Allegations of Research
 Misconduct aligns with UKRIO and UUK processes. Studies involving patients are submitted to
 the Health Research Authority and National Research Ethics Services. Healthcare studies follow
 ethical principles in line with the Declaration of Helsinki, 1996; the principles of Good Clinical
 Practice and the UK Department of Health Policy Framework for Health and Social Care, 2017.
 Ethical approvals are considered by NHS committees or local ethics committees for research
 studies with human participants. Their chairs also deal with concerns/complaints.
 Research integrity is driven by the Research Ethics and Research Integrity Committee.
 Nominated staff within the unit are further points of contact and they collate data and activities
 for the Research Integrity and Research Ethics Annual Statement.
 Our Health and Safety Committees review our risk assessments. Much of our work is low risk
 but appropriate protocols are in place for higher risk projects, e.g. TMS.
 Training and information
 Researcher Academy research integrity training is mandatory for PGR students and attendance
 data evidence their engagement with the training. Staff attend courses run by the university
 Leadership and Management Academy, many of which include a research integrity component.
 Eight members of UOA4 have undertaken formal core programmes and a further 52 have
 undertaken “bitesize learning” modules online since the Academy’s launch in 2016. Induction
 materials for new staff include data management and data sharing, research ethics and integrity,
 and ways of raising concerns. Strategies to reduce risk include sessions on Open Science,
 including pre-registration, data sharing, rigour and reproducibility. Locally organised seminars
 educate researchers about the Data Protection Act and GDPR, to ensure that data collection
 and storage adhere. Support with data management plans includes internal peer review
 systems, examples from recently funded applications, and encouraging applicants to have their
 statements reviewed via the library ('DMP online').
 Animal studies
 Research involving animals is managed through our Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Body
 (AWERB) and conducted under Home Office Licence authority. In vivo studies conducted in the
 Biomedical Support Unit aim to Reduce, Refine and Replace (3Rs) the use of animals and our
 annual 3Rs workshops promote best practice across the Midlands. Published studies conform to
 the ARRIVE Guidelines. Bonardi and Sumner have been members of our AWERB.
 PPI
 Research integrity is supported by our extensive PPI activity. The Hearing group plays a
 prominent role in PPI within the BRC and SM including co-creating the East Midlands Lay
 Assessor training programme, and the East Midlands Sharebank (a novel model, based on

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reciprocation, for organisations/staff/patients/public to share PPI research knowledge and skills).
 Sharebank has been rolled out nationally by INVOLVE (the NIHR-funded advisory group for
 advancing public involvement in research). The Transgender Health and Mental Health team
 has developed a very active PPI group with over 40 members of the trans community. Clinical
 psychology doctoral students have access to a paid service users and carer involvement panel.
 There is also a MS PPI group co-chaired by two individuals with MS who have been co-
 investigators on several research projects. PPI activities by this group were identified as meeting
 national best practice (Bloomsbury REC, the MS Society’s PPI training day). Guidelines on
 involving people with dementia as peer researchers were published by the Centre for Dementia.
 We have also (with the James Lind Alliance) developed research priority lists for hyperacusis
 (Hoare) and technology use in mental health (Hollis).

 2: People
 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Staffing strategies and development plans aim for a diverse workforce and the wellbeing of our
 staff is paramount. All appointments are aligned with our initiatives to support EDI and strategies
 for research, knowledge exchange and impact.
 Our recruitment strategy is based on replacement, taking into account research and teaching
 needs, succession planning and research leadership. We aim to attract high calibre individuals
 to enhance research strengths (and teaching and/or clinical provision). We typically appoint at
 the assistant professor level (associate in the case of clinical academics) and support
 development through internal promotion of ECRs. Strategic senior appointments provide
 additional leadership in specific areas e.g. computational neuroscience, global health and
 ageing. New ECRs on R&T contracts have reduced teaching loads and research and teaching
 mentors. ECRs are well-represented across committee structures and post-docs are also invited
 to sit on relevant committees (e.g. EDI). Deputy roles are usually for more junior members of
 staff, enabling them to develop the required skills to take on future leadership roles. All our posts
 are open to working part-time, offering greater flexibility.
 Across the unit, 45.4% of academic staff identify as female of which 84% hold a permanent
 contract and 11% opt to work part-time (86% of men are employed on permanent contracts and
 2% work part-time). The available data show gender parity at the levels of assistant and
 associate professor with 34% female professors (up from 16% in 2015). Since 2014, SP
 appointed 13 assistant professors (7 female) and 5 professors (1 female). Across the unit, 1% of
 staff report a disability and 1% prefer not to say. Our ethnicity split is 12.8% BAME, 82.9% white
 and 4.3% unknown.
 We conduct regular surveys to understand the needs of staff and typically achieve over 60%
 response. These have been combined with staff focus groups, including specific sessions for
 maternity issues, for both R&T staff and clinical academics.
 Recruitment
 Adverts highlight wellbeing initiatives and family-friendly policies (e.g. flexible working, shared
 parental leave) and signpost to employee hub benefits. Template role profiles use a gender de-
 coder to avoid bias. The vacancy management system structures application questions to avoid
 unconscious bias and shortlisting is undertaken without knowledge of protected characteristics.
 We actively encourage applications from less represented groups (REF5a;1&3.1).
 Shortlisting/interview panels are gender balanced. We have engaged with a new initiative,
 Diversity by Design (see 2.3). All interview panel members undergo EDI and unconscious bias
 training.
 Induction
 New recruits have one-to-one structured inductions with their line manager, research, teaching
 and EDI leads, and are invited to local welcome events. Our ethos, including EDI policies, is
 emphasised in our induction pack. Buddy systems give new starters an informal point of contact
 outside of line management.

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Development
 Several mechanisms operate to attract and retain the next generation of high-quality
 researchers: e.g. internal funding of research fellowship posts; a dedicated fellowships officer
 who works proactively to attract high quality candidates through the Nottingham Research
 Fellowship and Anne McLaren schemes; staff can participate in university doctoral training
 programmes (NIHR, BBSRC, MRC Impact, EPSRC and ESRC); and have mentoring and
 support with grant writing.
 Study leave for 1-2 semesters is available to academic staff. Cases are considered on merit and
 in relation to the strategic aims of the school/division and university.
 An extensive range of professional development courses is available for staff and students. Our
 Leadership and Management Academy (LMA) (established 2016) provides courses, online
 resources for performance management and personal diagnostics and coaching and mentoring.
 The university’s Research Leaders Programme was completed by Webb (2014), Pitchford
 (2015), Townsend (2015), Moran (2016), Tunney (2016), Hall (2016), and das Nair (2018). Staff
 also completed the Future Leaders (Allen) and Leadership for High Performing Teams (Kitterick)
 programmes within the LMA. Subsequently staff took up research leadership roles at
 School/Faculty level: impact champions (Pitchford, Moran); PE Steering Group (Townsend);
 Vice-Provost Research and Knowledge Exchange at University Malaysia and NIHR Senior
 Investigator (Hall); DPAP Director of Research and Chair of the NIHR’s Research for Patient
 Benefit – East Midlands Region (das Nair). Kitterick was promoted to lead the BRC’s Hearing
 theme. Lawrence and das Nair completed the VC mentoring scheme including shadowing
 opportunities with the VC and PVCs.
 NIHR-funded clinical academic training posts in SM, hosted in partnership with local NHS Trusts
 and Health Education England, funds Academic Clinical Fellows/ Lecturers doing PhD/MDs
 during their clinical training.
 Recognising and rewarding staff
 Drawing from best practice, the university’s approach to performance-related reward is now
 separate to annual staff development review. The Nottingham Reward Scheme allows
 individuals and teams to be nominated/self-nominated for a range of monetary awards. Excellent
 contributions (either output- or behaviour-based) can be recognised at any time, while sustained
 excellence demonstrating positive impact and wider contribution are recognised through regular
 review.
 A workload plan model ensures (as far as possible) equitable distribution of work and measures
 are taken if individuals exceed the 100% allocation by a significant and sustained margin.
 Knowledge exchange and public engagement activities are included in the model.
 Promotion
 The annual Appraisal and Development Conversation is used to highlight excellence in research
 outputs, knowledge transfer and/or impact, which are recognised in our promotion benchmarks.
 We actively support promotion, highlighting opportunities and deadlines to all staff and working
 with applicants to develop their cases.
 Our EDI committees identified barriers faced by women and introduced specific measures to
 overcome (e.g., flexible working, promotions workshops).
 Support for ECRs
 We are committed to implementing the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers. The Researcher Academy training maps to our Researcher Development
 Framework which describes the knowledge, behaviours and attributes of successful researchers
 with a wide programme of online and face-to face short courses for PGT/PGR students and
 ECRs (Managing Your Research, Research Skills & Techniques, Research Governance,
 Writing, Communication & Networking Skills and Entrepreneurship). An online Supervisor Toolkit
 is also available.


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We appointed two internally-funded research fellows to specific projects, and independent
 research fellows supported through internal (N=4) and external funding schemes (N=4). We also
 attracted three Nottingham Research Fellowships, two Anne McLaren Fellowships and a Newton
 International Fellowship. In addition to individual fellowships, ECRs are appointed and supported
 through grants from the NIHR and charity sector. We hosted two EU funded Marie Sklodowska-
 Curie Innovative Training Networks (INDUCT and DISTINCT) which funded 30 early career
 fellowships in dementia across Europe, four based in DPAP.
 ECR and research fellows receive an induction pack and a programme, which includes meeting
 the director of research, and are allocated both a buddy and research mentor. Career
 development lunches with research leads and other senior staff are held regularly alongside
 ECR group meetings and workshops (UKRI, Wellcome, NIHR fellowships). Honorary contracts
 with NHS Trusts link clinician research with services. Further opportunities to speak to key staff
 about career progression and CV development include ‘Meet and Mingle’ and ‘CV Spa’ events.
 Astle completed a leadership programme for ECRs. DCN has a dedicated training lead (Hoare)
 and a reserved budget for training for advanced courses that ECRs would otherwise be unable
 to attend. PhD students and ECRs receive practical instruction in audiology, delivered by NHS
 professional audiologist clinical staff, and can observe audiological and implant clinics in action.
 Support with grant writing and impact
 Feedback and advice: Grant applications receive internal peer review and feedback: e.g. using a
 Grant Advisory Panel to refer applicants to academics with some track record with the specific
 (or similar) funder, for advice and support; the East Midlands RDS offers advice for grant
 applications, particularly NIHR; research and governance advice ‘clinics’ are run by
 Nottinghamshire HealthCare R&I; and online and face-to-face statistics support for SM staff
 includes a weekly drop-in statistics clinic, longer-term support and access to potential
 collaborators. Applicants are also referred to the impact and engagement champions, to help
 them to strengthen their applications and maximise delivery if successful.
 Mentoring: Mentoring is available to all staff and PGR students. We provide internal training for
 mentors and mentees and invest in external training. Engagement of staff and PhD students is
 good, and the schemes are highly rated by mentees and mentors. Mentees report benefits to
 career progression and confidence whilst mentors report that they feel they have helped their
 mentee and found the experience personally fulfilling. SM is an active member of the HEE-NIHR
 pre-doctoral and post-doctoral bridging programmes in the East Midlands. Mentorship is
 available for non-medical/allied health professionals who are working in the NHS to develop their
 PhD proposals and NIHR fellowship applications.
 Role shadowing: Staff are invited to gain experience of other roles to support personal and
 professional development as well as to strengthen collaboration and communication between
 individuals working in different areas or at differing levels of seniority. It is widely promoted via
 the newsletters, staff open days for staff at all levels and across all job families.
 Support courses and workshops for grant writing: These are organised locally. SP workshops
 were reported to be very useful, with attendance of ~20 staff of all levels of seniority; plus staff
 organised (mini retreat) writing sessions, generally as weekly half day slots during term time. SM
 hosts grant writing workshops for all academic staff and postdoctoral researchers. Advice and
 support with impact and engagement is embedded within these events and complemented by
 additional impact training events.
 Engagement and impact
 Annual public engagement training sessions for staff and students are supported by impact and
 engagement champions. Funding is available for staff to attend public engagement courses. The
 intranet also provides public engagement resources, such as toolkit posters and scripts for
 popular activities, as well as evaluation form templates, to measure changes in knowledge
 and/or opinions.
 A budget is available to support costs of travel and conference attendance. This encourages
 colleagues to seek opportunities to disseminate their work through attendance at relevant events

                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in the UK and internationally. Researchers can also apply for funding for research visits for
 collaboration or specific external training. The university Conference and Training Care Fund
 provides additional supports for staff attending conferences with (e.g.) childcare commitments.
 2.2 Postgraduate research students
 Postdoctoral degrees awarded
 PGR data calculated as FTEs/academic year total 46.7 across UOA4, compared with a
 REF2014 average of 29.28. This reflects the vitality of our PGR environment and indicates
 sustainability of the pipeline of discipline-specific strengths across the UOA. These figures
 include vocational doctoral programmes which are classified as PGR: Educational Psychology
 (10-12/year) and Clinical Psychology (16/year). Our programmes offer doctoral level training in
 research methods, funded through competitive awards, e.g. by the Department of Education and
 HEE.
 Within the unit, over the assessment period, 72% of doctoral awards (235) were to females. SP’s
 Athena Swan action plan includes strategies to attract males into Psychology. Similar
 demographics in our DPAP professional doctorates have prompted plans to increase diversity.
 Part-time study for PGRs is offered proactively.
 Building postgraduate research student capacity (sustainability and pipeline)
 Our Masters programmes included Brain Imaging, Psychology Research Methods and
 Psychology Conversion, Developmental Psychopathology, Computational Neuroscience,
 Cognition and AI, Mental Health Research, Management Psychology, Occupational Psychology,
 Work and Organisational Psychology, Workplace Health and Wellbeing (Distance E-Learning).
 19.7% of PGRs (by headcount) in the unit have been funded by the Research Councils
 (including through the institutional doctoral training centres and partnerships (ESRC, EPSRC
 and BBSRC and MRC Impact), CASE awards (ESRC, EPSRC and BBSRC). Others are
 supported by, NIHR, EU and other sources including charity and industry (e.g. Bial Foundation,
 Brain Tumour Charity, Defence Science & Technology Lab, Driving Standards Agency, Fight for
 Sight, Pain Relief Foundation, MS Society, Alzheimer’s Society). SP also has an internal
 mechanism to recruit students to specific project areas and funds two studentships per year to
 support strategic initiatives within the school (e.g., to complement research grant awards). DPAP
 hosts the two EU funded Marie Sklodowska-Curie Innovative Training Networks (INDUCT and
 DISTINCT) including 30 funded PhDs across Europe with four of these early career fellowships
 based in DPAP.
 Fostering research culture for PGRs
     High quality supervision: All PGR students have a primary supervisor and at least one
        additional supervisor. Supervisory teams support ECRs to develop expertise in
        supervision. Dedicated postgraduate tutors provide additional points of advice and
        support. A minimum of 10 formal supervision sessions per year are documented and
        held on file. Progression reviews by an independent internal assessor are used to assess
        and report on progress so that any issues with the quality or level of supervision can be
        remedied. Responsibility for students supported through the BBSRC and ESRC doctoral
        training programmes is held locally following the first year of lab rotations (BBSRC DTP)
        or other training (ESRC DTC/DTP).
       PGR student support: PGR students have access to academic and welfare support
        through a number of central or local channels; e.g. consultations with a locally-allocated
        postgraduate student advisor, access to a peer support groups and mentoring schemes,
        wellbeing and disability services and careers advice and development services.
        Maternity/paternity support is also provided by the UKRI doctoral training partnerships
        (but does not yet extend to all our vocational PhD programmes). Additional support
        during the pandemic has included IT provision for home use.
       Skills training: PGR students accrue credit for completing Researcher Academy training
        (REF5a;3.3) and any other training provided through their school or doctoral training


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        programme, e.g. workshops on conducting a systematic review and on qualitative and
        quantitative research.
       Networking opportunities: PGRs regularly attend and contribute to weekly internal
        seminar series, and present their work (in poster format as well as final year talks) at
        annual PGR days attended by post-docs and academic staff. PGR student
        representatives in DPAP organise bimonthly PGR seminars and monthly PGR-led
        discussion forums, as part of the divisional PGR community initiative framework intended
        to foster student-driven networking and knowledge and skills development opportunities.
        Additional opportunities to present are provided by our doctoral training programmes (the
        BBSRC DTP and the Nottingham ESRC DTC/ Midlands Researcher Academy DTP).
        Thus, a relatively high proportion of our students are also part of cross-school or cross-
        faculty networks.
       Research-friendly environment: PGRs are accommodated in spacious modern or
        refurbished offices, each with an individually allocated desk and lockable storage space.
        Students have use of kitchens, social spaces for informal gathering, bookable meeting
        and interview rooms. Part-time students have access to hot-desk facilities within
        designated rooms. State-of-the-art research equipment is provided locally (Section 3).
        Students also access the university platforms, e.g. for brain imaging and data storage,
        supported by allocations of scanning time and file space to support their training. For
        example, SP is allocated up to 36 hours of PGR scanning time and HPC access for
        student data requiring analysis pipelines.
 2.3 How Nottingham UOA4 supports and promotes equality, diversity and inclusion
 We have committed to promoting an environment embracing EDI for many years (REF5a;3.5).
 SP has received and successfully retained Athena Swan Silver awards 2008-2020. Our self-
 assessment committee reconfigured with a wider EDI remit, reporting to the Faculty of Science
 EDI committee. SM achieved Athena Swan Bronze in 2013, and Silver in 2015, renewed 2019.
 The local EDI committees, responsible and accountable for all nine protected characteristics,
 comprise a spread of job families and levels, student and external representatives, report to
 termly staff meetings and use awaydays to raise awareness of EDI and to deliver training (e.g.
 implicit bias). New staff receive an EDI induction from a committee lead. Completion of EDI and
 unconscious bias training is monitored and refreshed every 3 years.
 EDI features in Terms of Reference and is included as a standing item for all research
 committees and senior management groups to ensure all activities are considered with regard to
 impacts on protected characteristics/other diversities.
 Evidence of delivery on our EDI agenda includes: EDI web and intranet pages, implementation
 of core meeting hours (9.30am-4pm), activities to promote visibility of women and understanding
 of protected characteristics (plasma image screen and portrait diversification; Inspiring Women
 displays); Athena Swan workshops; open flexible working for maternity/paternity benefit (e.g. 11
 periods of parental leave were taken in SP); provision of breastfeeding rooms and fridges;
 additional gender-neutral toilet provision; improved access for wheelchair users.
 The Maternity/Shared Parental Leave Planner was developed in consultation with staff as an
 Athena Swan initiative. The planner supports individuals and their managers when planning for
 (and during) the period of maternity/shared parental leave.
 To overcome digital inclusivity challenges, we provide IT support to personalise devices, across
 the UOA, for students and staff alike, configuring individual devices to suit individual needs.
 Students are also encouraged to seek support from the university’s Disability Support Services
 to inform decisions about reasonable adjustments required.
 We are highly supportive of institutional initiatives for BAME staff including the ‘Stellar HE’
 Leadership programme. In October 2019, the university hosted the ‘BecoME BAME Leaders in
 Healthcare Conference’ to highlight the journeys of BAME leaders in healthcare, to inspire future
 leaders in healthcare, from all professions. The conference was widely advertised across our
 UOA.

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We piloted ‘Diversity by Design’ for a 2019 assistant professor recruitment; this changed the
 language used for advertisement and ensured inclusion of role-based criteria within the selection
 process.
 2.4 EDI and the construction of the REF submission
 The university supported employees to voluntarily declare relevant personal circumstances and
 their impact on volume of REF outputs (see REF5a;3.6). All researchers were asked to nominate
 any outputs they thought eligible for inclusion for REF2021 for our annual internal review
 process.
 All staff involved in REF preparations completed bespoke masterclasses: REF, Equality,
 Diversity and Inclusion Training (covering EDI legislation and principles governing REF conduct,
 protected characteristics, unconscious bias, management strategies for positive outcomes).
 To allow staff and research students without other funding to publish their research in the most
 appropriate journals (whilst satisfying the open access requirements for REF), internal funds
 supported gold open access publication in journals that lacked a suitable green alternative (in
 terms of embargo period). There was no competition for these funds, provided the research met
 the criteria of the REF2021 guidance.
 All staff were encouraged to develop the impact of their research across the breadth of our
 diverse portfolio. Of the 7 projects put forward as ICSs 4 have lead authors who are women and
 3 men (4 professors, 2 associate professors, 1 senior research fellow).


 3: Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Research income (1st August 2013 - 31st July 2020)
 Average total research spend has increased by £1.55M per year: £4.94M/year in the present
 REF as compared with £3.39M/year in the previous REF cycle. Average total award is higher at
 £6.84M/year. Income sources for the period comprised: 32% UK research councils, 29% NIHR,
 12.8% UK-based charities, 12.7% from other UK government bodies, and 5.4% from the EU.
 Industrial funding (4.5%) is strategically important for some of our applied areas of research
 outside the NHS remit (e.g. translational work with animals, see below). Proportion of income
 from other sources is presently low (<4%) and we aim to diversify our funding sources over the
 next period, also increasing funding for research in neurodiversity and other EDI lines of
 research. Research income-in-kind for the unit has totalled £6.2M, from NIHR, for MindTech.
 The NIHR awards tend to be for large programmes of research and are not fully captured in the
 income figures because these grants, and the associated Research Capacity Funding, are
 typically submitted through our local NHS Trusts. Nonetheless, through our collaboration with
 the IMH, Research Capability Funding enhances DPAP’s research capacity by contributing to
 sponsorship, governance, accommodation, financial management, and human resource
 management costs.
 IMH received 57 grants from NIHR, in total £19.8M with staff as PI, and £67.25M with staff as
 co-applicants. 29 of these awards are worth more than £1M. Projects we led included:
 assessments for children with emotional difficulties (Sayal), cognitive rehabilitation for people
 with MS (das Nair), crisis teams use in dementia (Orrell), stimulant medication for ADHD and tics
 (Hollis, Sayal), TMS for the treatment of depression (Morriss, Liddle). Arcelus has secured over
 £3M funding since his appointment in 2016. Grants as co-applicants included: group intervention
 for postnatal depression in British mothers of South Asian origin (Morriss); enhancing return to
 work after trauma (das Nair).
 The CLAHRC/ARC was awarded £11M (2014-2019) and £9M (2019-2024) to deliver a
 programme of world-class research and capacity building, working closely with its 60 partners
 across the NHS, local universities, local government, industry and the voluntary sector who have
 contributed £18M matched funding.



                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 MindTech (Hollis) was awarded a further £1.3M in 2018, leading to the NIHR Nottingham BRC
 Mental Health and Technology Theme (£3.75M; 2017–2020). MindTech has leveraged >£109M
 (ratio >40:1) in grant funding, with >80 projects recruiting >14,000 participants including major
 trials of digital technology for mental health (£1.7M NIHR funding).
 The Nottingham MS Research Group (based within Clinical Neuropsychology; das Nair) secured
 a £1.85M NIHR grant for neuropsychological evaluation and rehabilitation in MS. In total, Clinical
 Neuropsychology has secured over £9M in funding from NIHR.
 The Cochrane Schizophrenia Group has been funded continuously with further funding of £875K
 in 2020 providing support for the next 5 years.
 The AQUEDUCT research programme (£2M; Centre for Dementia) aims to reduce hospital
 admissions through improving the effectiveness of crisis teams. The PRIDE ESRC/NIHR
 research programme (£2.9M) has developed a self-management programme for people with
 dementia to enable them to remain independent for longer.
 Other major IMH grants include INDUCT and DISTINCT, two EU Marie-Curie Networks (£7M)
 comprising 30 PhD students based across the EU on research training projects in dementia care
 and technology. The Centre for Dementia is a partner with the University of Worcester in the
 Alzheimer’s Society funded TAnDem Doctoral Training Centre, which established 8
 studentships.
 Individual PIs and small groups of investigators working in basic science have been supported
 by diverse funding sources, including charitable foundations (and smaller grant schemes for
 relatively inexpensive areas of research). Awards to support our core areas of research have
 come from Action Medical Research, Alzheimer’s Research UK, BBSRC, EPSRC, ESRC, MRC,
 the Wellcome Trust, Leverhulme and Horizon 2020. We have been further supported by Arthritis
 Research UK, Autistica, the Bial Foundation, Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, Department for
 Transport, Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, Education Endowment Foundation, Fight for
 Sight, International Society for Autism Research, Jaguar Land Rover, Macular Society, Newton
 Fund, MS society, Stroke Association, Templeton Foundation, Tourettes Action, Tourette
 Association of America, VSO and the Waterloo Foundation. We have also had success with
 KTPs (with Cambridge Cognition and the Together Agency) and industrial sponsorship (e.g. for
 BBSRC-DTP awards) as well as NHS funding streams.
 Highlight outcomes included:
       evidence for new links between the rate of occurrence of fixational eye movements and
        the detectability of visual targets (Proc Roy Soc B; IOVS, J Neurophys) translated to the
        development of new methods for objectively measuring visual capacity in patients (Visual
        Neuroscience group £641K; Wellcome Trust fellowship and Fight for Sight);
       research identifying digital manipulations that enhance peripheral visual function (Roach
        £76K; Fight for Sight) is now being used to develop assistive technology for patients with
        late-stage macular disease (McGraw £176K; Macular Society);
       a comprehensive evidence base for the effectiveness of technology to support the
        acquisition of basic literacy and numeracy skills in marginalised children in Malawi and
        the UK (Pitchford £637K; VSO and EEF; plus an ESRC-funded PhD studentship);
       an evidence-based information leaflet to enable safe conversations about self-harm has
        been taken up by NHS guidelines online, as a recommended resource for supporting
        people who self-harm (Townsend; £475K Listen-up NIHR funding);
       individualised risk assessments: evidence-based on sexuality and sexual behaviour for
        UK blood donors; following 80,000 donor surveys (Ferguson £70K; UKFORUM);
       involvement in the ESRC-funded project STEMM-CHANGE, to drive positive change in
        EDI culture and practices (Wilding; CI and Programme Director).




                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Pump priming is a key component of our research pipeline and was supported by learned
 society small grants, as well as awards administered by the university. 7 EPS and 5 British
 Academy awards have fostered later success with more substantial applications (e.g. to ESRC
 and BBSRC). We have also developed our research with 7 MRC Confidence in Concept awards
 and institutional investment, e.g. from the university’s Research Priority Area funding streams
 (total £108.9K), the Interdisciplinary Centre for Analytical Science (£14.8K) and the Nottingham
 Digital Economy Hub (£97K).
 Highlight outcomes included:
       Experiments funded by an EPS small grant led to a successful ESRC DTC award
        (£27.6K) and publications in QJEP and J Exp Psychol (Haselgrove; £2.5K).
       MRC Confidence in Concept (Roach; £88K) was used for the development of new
        ‘oculometric’ methods for objectively measuring visual sensitivity from changes in
        fixational eye movements (leading to £113K from Fight for Sight).

 Hearing Research has been primarily supported by core funding from NIHR BRC (Hall, Kitterick)
 and MRC programmes (Akeroyd, Krumbholz) supplemented by grants from Technology
 Strategy Board (Hall), MRC (Hall, Hartley), EU (Hartley, Hall), NIHR (Hall, Hoare, Kitterick) and
 EPSRC (Akeroyd) plus many charity and industry awards.
 Research in PPN has established and characterised rodent models of CNS disorders to validate
 5-hydroxytryptamine receptors as therapeutic drug targets (Fone; £30.5K industry funding).
 Funding from the NC3Rs has expanded our capacity in this area, with grants awarded for
 innovations in refinement of in vivo methods for stroke assessment and multielectrode recording
 from spinal cord (Trueman, Hathway).
 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 Each research group has its own research facilities. SP and DCN have buildings on University
 Park and other neuroscience labs are based in the Medical School. All buildings have received
 continual investment from the university and other sources, to maintain and update experimental
 equipment.
 Most DPAP staff are located in the award-winning IMH building. It has outstanding office space,
 sound-proofed laboratory facilities, participant reception area, dedicated interview rooms and
 conference facilities, kitchens and social spaces, and an art gallery space which enables art-
 based research into mental health and public engagement. Both DPAP and SP resource
 psychometrics test libraries open to all staff and students.
 SP has well-established human experimental labs and maintained facilities for computer-based,
 eye-tracking, EEG and TMS studies, plus the anechoic chamber, driving simulator and ‘Toddler
 lab’, supported by 5 in-house technical and IT staff. A further investment of £200K enabled
 refurbishment of 121.5m2 (furnished offices and three testing rooms, break out/meeting area and
 small kitchen for Computational Neuroscience), a new face lab provisioned with specialist
 equipment for capturing moving faces, manipulating the images, and a 55m2 EEG memory lab
 and refurbishment of seminar rooms for lab groups and meetings (redecorated, new furniture,
 new computers, white boards, new projectors). Both of the new labs were resourced by a
 university £30-50K equipment start-up allowance. We match-funded specialist equipment
 aligned with a grant award (total value ~£60K). SP ‘Social Space’ refurbishment included new
 furniture, kitchenette and computers, providing a spacious informal setting used for career
 development lunches; promotions workshops and ECR events. Disabled access improvements
 included upgrades to access lifts, toilets and lab entrances. New gender-neutral toilet and
 parenting room provision (and signage) have been priorities for all of our buildings.
 SP invested in 130m2 bespoke laboratory space in the university Bio-Support Unit for the
 Behavioural Neuroscience group (for research supported by two BBSRC grants, an MRC award
 and industrial sponsors). PPN neuroscientists also use the Bio-Support Unit (192m2 behavioural
 suite and surgery). In addition, we can all access small animal (11.7T) imaging facilities. Shared
 infra-structure platforms facilitate collaborations (co-supervised PGRs, joint grants and


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 publications) including SP (Bast, Bonardi, Cassaday, Moran) and PPN (Hathaway, Fone,
 Pardon). Two PPN technicians support the use of these facilities, as an inclusive package when
 SP staff rent the PPN surgery and behaviour rooms.
 Hearing research benefits from bespoke auditory laboratories and equipment continually refined
 for 40 years at University Park, Ropewalk House (NHS Audiology) Nottingham, and a ‘Scottish
 Section’ at the Glasgow Royal Infirmary. Major investments include a loudspeaker laboratory for
 spatial-hearing experiments (£100K MRC Capital Funds; £48K university), paired eye-trackers
 for tracking people while they converse (£110K MRC Capital Funds) and a fNIRS system
 (£263K, MRC Clinical Research Infrastructure).
 Staff across the unit benefit from institutional investments, for example the new library and digital
 infrastructure (including the Research Information System which supports the delivery of open
 access, open science and research data management). The new HPC facility supports projects
 requiring large-scale data processing, such as neuroimaging and electrophysiology, including
 the large-scale processing of data from repositories for secondary analyses. We benefitted from
 227,674.75 CPU hours (2018-2020).The university has invested over £3.8M in its digital
 research programme since 2016.
 Increased PGR numbers have been supported by institutional investment over the period.
 New/newly-refurbished Graduate Centres exclusively for PGRs are positioned on all campuses.
 These provide bookable seminar rooms, computers, career libraries, kitchen facilities,
 lounge and relaxation areas. The £18M 2014 refurbishment of the George Green Library
 provided further bookable individual and group PGR study areas.
 The university’s Strategic Development Fund attracted significant investment for the Nottingham
 Clinical Trials Unit (NCTU). Large-scale NIHR trials (e.g. STADIA, SATURN, CRAMMS,
 ReMemBrIn) were developed and supported through collaboration with NCTU. NCTU has
 provided popular clinical trials courses and a Clinical Trials Database Support service to assist
 database design and data management and training in use of software, and REDcap database
 software and support is available. Projects such as NEuRoMS from DPAP are using such
 software. The unit is also supported by the £5.1M NIHR-funded East Midlands RDS (Orrell was
 co-applicant), providing high quality methodology and funding advice for applied health research.
 Applicants are signposted to RDS when developing proposals.
 UOA4 researchers utilise world-leading facilities for basic and clinical studies of cognitive
 function and neurological diseases within the Sir Peter Mansfield Imaging Centre. The
 university’s Research Vision awarded a £1.5M Beacon investment in Precision Imaging,
 including two new MRI scanners and major upgrades to existing scanners. The university is an
 international leader in establishing a platform for large-scale multi-centre clinical work in UHF 7T
 MRI and spectroscopy. 27 of us are members of the Beacon and we are well-represented on the
 management board (Jackson, Liddle, Krumbholtz, Kitterick, Chappell and Sotiropoulos). Jackson
 is the programme lead for brain plasticity and neuromodulation. Chappell was a Beacon-specific
 appointment as Chair of Biomedical Imaging. We have two Beacon-funded fellows, six PGR
 students, plus other Beacon-funded ECRs.
 Unit involvement in the BRC is increasing. Hollis is the programme lead for the Mental Health
 and Technology group. Jackson and Liddle lead on Neuroimaging and the Neuromodulation
 programme and four of our members are BRC group (Hall, Hartley and Hoare) or theme
 (Kitterick) leaders. We also have a BRC-funded fellow and PGR.
 New SM posts included a Research Excellence Manager, Research Development Manager, and
 part-time Translational Business Development Manager with strong ties to NHS Trusts, to focus
 on translational research and promote industrial collaboration and commercialisation (working
 with Intellectual Property leads).
 3.3 Enabling impact
 We have a variety of mechanisms to promote impact, such as pump-priming funds to support
 activities likely to lead to research impact, and an ongoing programme of impact training and
 showcase events. Since November 2018, we have been supported by Faculty Impact Officers
 (working closely with the impact champions).

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Impact is central theme of research awaydays, and embedded with regular Impact Case slots
 within our internal seminar series. The work of the SP Engagement Committee is supported by
 an annual allowance of £2500 (from the school budget). Six staff completed the university
 Impact Leaders Programme with a variety of external partners (Cambridge Cognition, VSO
 International, Jaguar Land Rover, Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency, Relate and
 Nottinghamshire Police).
 Nottingham’s ESRC IAA supported:
       Ferguson (2019) seminar on new selection and recruitment in the healthcare
        professions;
       Ropar (2018) an online training package (relating to the detention of autistic individuals)
        for Nottinghamshire Police: a PhD student was shortlisted for 2019 ESRC Celebrating
        Impact Prize;
       Blackie (2018) to develop a therapeutic tool with Relate Nottinghamshire;
       Allen (2017) scoping study with Jaguar Land Rover to explore how changing vehicle use
        and design can increase mobility;
       Chapman (2017) seminar series and networking event with the DVSA;
       Pitchford (2016) to develop integrated data handling protocols for sustainable early child
        development and wellbeing in Malawi with VSO International;
       Moran (2015) for a ‘Healthy Brains’ public event with Cambridge Cognition;
       Cragg, Einav & Ropar (2015) to develop new activities for Summer Scientist Week and
        accelerate the impact of child development research on families.
 Notably, we have also been supported by the Institute for Policy and Engagement, from its
 launch in 2018, with Pitchford and Chapman’s research both featured at the external launch
 (2019), and researchers in SP (Ropar, Cassidy and Pitchford) and DPAP (das Nair) awarded
 small grants to develop policy impact. Other support for impact included 4 Small Steps Awards
 (£8,241), 2 International Collaboration Fund awards (£12,000) and 3 ESRC collaborative PhD
 studentships (e.g, with onebillion).
 4: Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Cross disciplinary collaborations




 Figure 1 – Publications (2014-2020; by Cat A staff) by subject area (SciVal).
 Data from SciVal (Figure 1) confirms that cross-disciplinary working is embedded in this cross-
 faculty UOA. Below are some selected highlights:

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Ferguson is part of a project on energy efficiency in the workplace in collaboration with
        colleagues in Nottingham Computer Science, Southampton University and UCL (RCUK
        Digital Economy; £1.3M).
       Blackie led on grants from the Templeton Religion Trust, which include collaboration with
        Ford University Philosophy ($206,463; on adversity and wisdom).
       Hollis leads a project with the Karolinska Institute, on remotely delivered behavioural
        intervention for children with Tourette Syndrome (NIHR HTA; £1.56M), and collaborates
        with the University of Auckland, on ‘Adolescent Mental Health and Development in the
        Digital World’ (MRC Engagement Award; £100K).
       Orrell coordinates three interdisciplinary networks for dementia with national and
        international organisations: Innovation Network in Dementia Using Current Technology;
        Dementia Inter-sectorial Strategy for Training- Innovation Network for Current
        Technology; and Promoting Independence in Dementia. For example, the first of these
        involves UCL, University of Hertfordshire, Maastricht University, Vrije University Medical
        Centre, Vrije University Brussels, Karolinska Institute, Czech Technical University in
        Prague, WHO, Alzheimer Europe, Alzheimer Disease International, University of Witten,
        World Federation of Occupational Therapists, Eumedianet, Beawerk, INTRAS, Geronto
        Centrum, Saxion University and SilverFit (total £10.5M).
 4.2 Inter-institutional/international collaborations
 Many of our cross-disciplinary collaborations are also inter-institutional and/or international (e.g.
 Blackie, Hollis, Morriss, Orrell). 41.2% of our output is the product of international and 40.8%
 national collaboration (SciVal). Nationally, our top 5 collaborating institutions (based on numbers
 of co-authored papers) are University of Oxford, UCL, KCL, University of Cambridge and
 Newcastle University. Below are selected highlights, including examples of our international
 collaborations.
       Daley: Development and implementation of an evidence-based behavioural intervention
        for ADHD. This has led to increased intervention training in the UK, a national roll out of
        the intervention in Denmark, and additional parenting training in Asia.
       Dening: EU-funded Mindful Design for People with Dementia programme which involves
        6 countries (co-applicant).
       Ferguson: held a series of international collaborations on blood donor motivations with 10
        other institutions (e.g. Eszterházy Károly University, Ohio University, University of New
        South Wales, University of Queensland).
       Hollis: member of the oversight committee for the NIHR Mental Health Transnational
        Research Collaboration.
       Glazebrook: collaboration with the Universities of Zambia, and recently funded with the
        University of Malawi and an enterprise group to produce COVID-19 health education
        materials.
       S_Jackson: led BIGTIC, bringing together clinical and non-clinical scientists from the UK
        and France with Washington University in St Louis and UCLA; led the European
        Research Network Programme Investigating Human Sensorimotor Function in Health
        and Disease.
       Lawrence: Nottingham lead for the Imagen Consortium which included the Central
        Institute of Mental Health Mannheim, Dresden University of Technology, University of
        Paris-Saclay, Paris-Sud University. This resulted in over 20 publications, including in
        Biological Psychiatry, Molecular Psychiatry and Nature.
       Morriss: member of EU Horizon2020-funded RADAR-CNS consortium led by King's
        College London, involving 24 other industry companies and organisations from Germany,
        Spain, Denmark, Belgium, Netherlands, Italy and United States, and spanning neurology
        (epilepsy, MS), computer science, pharmaceutical industry, digital industry.

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Pitchford: led a project on the use of tablet technology to improve teaching and learning,
        partnered with the University of Malawi, co-funded by a Hermes Fellowship (HEIF) and
        VSO.
       Townsend: led the Global Suicide Prevention Research Hub (with Sayal and others),
        partnering with University of Guyana, University of Ghana, National University of
        Malaysia, UNNC and Hong Kong University.
 4.3 Contributions to the research base
 Prestigious externally funded Fellowships
 Amongst our ECRs, Cassidy held an ESRC Future Leaders Fellowship and Roach held a
 Wellcome Trust Research Career Development Fellowship. Reid held a Radboud Excellence
 Initiative Fellowship at Radboud University Nijmegen. Other fellowship awards were from the
 BIAL Foundation, Faculty of Occupational Medicine, Health Service Journal Innovation Award,
 the British Science Association, Royal Society for Public Health and International Society for
 Research on Aggression.
 Awards and prizes
 Our staff have received national and international recognition including the following highlights:
 BPS Margaret Donaldson Early Career Prize (Cragg); National Autistic Society's Autism
 Professionals Awards, in the most impactful researcher category (Cassidy); NIHR Senior
 investigator awards (Hollis, Morriss, Orrell); Association for Psychological Science Rising Star
 award (Madan); Young Psychiatrist Award, World Psychiatric Associaion (Katshu). We were also
 part of an international initiative which was a joint winner of the 2019 Global Learning XPRIZE
 (Pitchford with onebillion).
 Invited/keynote lectures and conference organisation
 Arcelus: invited plenary speaker at the International Conference of the Academy of Eating
 Disorders and keynote speaker at the Nordic Association for Clinical Sexology.
 Burdett: invited lectures at the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, Leipzig and at
 the Universidad Austral, Buenos Aires.
 Das Nair: invited keynote speaker at MS Ireland, Portuguese MS Study Group Meeting,
 European Rehabilitation in MS, and the Australasian Society for the Study of Brain Impairment.
 Haselgrove: plenary speaker at the International Spanish Society for Comparative Psychology,
 University of Oviedo and gave an invited talk at Waseda University, Japan.
 Hollis: keynote speaker at the NHS Research Scotland Mental Health Annual meeting, and gave
 an invited public lecture (Auckland).
 S_Jackson: invited speaker at the Federation of European Societies of Neuropsychology and
 the British Association for Cognitive Neuroscience Annual Meeting.
 Orrell: plenary speaker at the 2nd International CST, University of Hong Kong, 3rd International
 CST conference, St Louis University, and at the Alzheimers Europe and Alzheimers Disease
 annual conferences.
 Schröder: plenary speaker at the 5th International Conference of the Compassionate Mind
 Foundation.
 Pardon: invited speaker at the 5th International Symposium on Thymosins in Health and
 Diseases.
 Pitchford: invited talks sponsored by the British Neuro-Oncology Society, International
 Conference on Educational Neuroscience, Lesbos Dialogues, Posterior Fossa Society, Swedish
 Neuropsychological Society and UNESCO.
 Conference committee memberships have included the European College of
 NeuroPsychopharmacology (Moran), European Professional Association of Transgender Health
 (Arcelus), the European Symposium on Suicide and Suicidal Behaviour (Townsend), and the

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Society of Occupational Medicine (Griffiths). Trueman was co-founder of the Biennial UK
 Preclinical Stroke Symposium.
 Invited professorships and fellowships
 Internationally, S_Jackson holds the Dirk Bakker Visiting Professorship at Utrecht University and
 Townsend holds the University of Melbourne Miegunyah Distinguished Visiting Fellowship.
 Mitchell was elected as fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and of the BPS. Humphries holds
 honorary research fellowships at the University of Sheffield and the University of Manchester.
 Ison is an honorary clinical research fellow at King’s College Hospital where he established one
 of the first single-neuron recording facilities in the world. Leka was Distinguished Research
 Scholar at the University of South Australia. Das Nair held a Distinguished Visiting Scholarship
 at the University of Technology, Sydney.
 Membership of funding body/peer review college assessment and strategy panels
 Mitchell was chair of the ESRC grant assessment panel and a member of the ESRC grant
 delivery group. Townsend served as ESRC large grant panel member. We have served as
 members of the ESRC Peer Review College (Allen, Filik, Lawrence) and panel members for the
 Wellcome Trust Basic Science Fellowships (Wilding) and Sir Henry Dale Fellowships
 (S_Jackson). Strategy panel memberships included BBSRC Bioscience for Health (Cassaday)
 and Skills and Career Development (Wilding). We sat on NIHR grant panels (Hollis, das Nair,
 Morriss, Orrell). Hollis was a member of the Technology Strategy Board for Digital Health and
 das Nair for the UK Occupational Therapy Research Foundation.
 Memberships of national and international advisory boards/Provision of expert advice
 We have served on a range of advisory boards, including the Alzheimer Society (Orrell), Arthritis
 Research UK Pain Centre (Bast), Bernstein Centre Munich (van Rossum), Work Safe Canada
 (Leka), Imagine Worldwide (Pitchford), Federation of European Societies for Neuropsychology
 (Jackson), Research Council of Norway (Sayal) and the Swedish Research Council (Leka).
 Cassidy served as an expert witness for Coroner inquests (understanding the role of autism in
 those who died by suicide). Das Nair was a mentor for HEE. Ferguson was a working party
 group member reporting to SaBTO, to recommend change to blood donor deferral criteria in the
 UK, and expert panel member for NHS Blood and Transplant to review the effectiveness of
 recruitment campaigns for BAME blood donors. In addition to a portfolio of local work (e.g. for
 Nottingham City and the Nottinghamshire Healthcare Trust), Hollis chaired the NICE guidelines
 for Psychosis and Schizophrenia in young people, and advised the Cabinet Office on digital
 technology for mental health. Morriss chaired the NICE Guideline Development Group and
 joined NICE Panel of Experts. Townsend was a member of expert reference groups for the Self-
 Harm & Suicide Prevention Competence Framework (children, young people and adult), the
 BPS Expert Panel on the Psychology of Suicidal Behaviour and acted as consultant for Public
 Health England’s 'Local suicide planning: A practical resource'. Lawrence was a member of the
 UK National Partnership on Work-Related Violence. We have also acted as advisors to the UK
 Ministry of Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Haselgrove, S_Jackson).
 We further support the research community by volunteering our services as members of Health
 Research Authority Research Ethics Committees (das Nair), Trial Steering and Data Monitoring
 Committees (das Nair, Sayal). Gibson is a Non-Executive Director of the Leicestershire
 Partnership NHS Trust.
 Staff working with animals also promote best practice nationally. Gibson and Trueman were
 working group members for the NC3Rs Experimental Stroke Models and contributed to the
 IMPROVE guidelines for in vivo stroke research. Moran was on the steering panel for the
 Laboratory Animal Science Association publication Guiding Principles for Behavioural
 Laboratory Animal Science.
 Learned society committee roles
 Reflecting our interdisciplinary breadth we supported a diverse range of learned societies
 through officer roles within the Applied Vision Association (Allen, Treasurer), British Association
 for Cognitive Neuroscience (S_Jackson, President), British Association for Psychopharmacology

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Moran, Non-Clinical External Affairs), British Society of Audiology (Hoare, President; Akeroyd,
 Trustee, Journal Chair) European Association of Geriatric Psychiatry (Orrell, President),
 European Professional Association of Transgender Health (Arcelus, Co-Chair of Global
 Guidelines), Experimental Psychology Society (Cassaday, Honorary Secretary), Federation of
 European Societies for Neuropsychology (S_Jackson, Scientific Advisory Board member),
 Society for Psychotherapy Research (Schröder), International Vice-president), the British
 Association for Psychopharmacology (Fone, President Elect; King, Council Member), European
 Society for Molecular Imaging (Farr, Chair), International Society for Cerebral Blood Flow and
 Metabolism (Farr, ECR and Program Committee roles) and The International Society for
 Serotonin Research (Fone, President). Staff have also served as committee members, e.g. on
 the Academy of Social Sciences (Griffiths), British Association for Cognitive Neuroscience
 (Allen), British Neuropsychological Society (Pitchford), British Psychological Society Research
 Board (Cassaday, Mitchell) and Ethics Committee (Cassaday), British Science Association
 (Allen) Experimental Psychology Society (Filik, Haselgrove), International Association of Suicide
 Prevention (Townsend), and the Royal College of Psychiatrists (Hollis).

 Journal editorships
 Staff held over 30 roles as Editor, Deputy Editor or Associate Editor, making further contributions
 as Action, Section, Review or Guest Editors, and/or Editorial Board members to over 60 different
 journals. These include prominent open access and open science journals (Royal Society Open
 Science, Cortex, Frontiers and PLOS journals) which make adherence to transparency and
 openness a requirement for publication. Chief/Deputy editorial roles included Aging and Mental
 Health (Orrell), Autism in Adulthood (Cassidy), Child and Adolescent Mental Health (Sayal),
 Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry (Hollis), and Journal of Neuropsychology
 (S_Jackson). Associate editor roles (total 24) include Cortex (S_Jackson, Wilding), International
 Journal of Audiology (Hall), International Journal of Transgenderism (Arcelus), Journal of
 Cognitive Psychology (Filik), Journal of Experimental Psychology: Animal Learning and
 Cognition (Bonardi), Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology (Cassaday, Haselgrove),
 Trends in Hearing (Akeroyd).
 4.4 Contribution to the economy
 SciVal analysis for the period of assessment shows a count of 17 patents citing UOA4 scholarly
 output.
 MindTech, in partnership with over 200 companies, helped industry to secure more than £6M in
 grants. The majority of activity is with SMEs and cuts across a range of sectors including
 Pharma, MedTech, Life Sciences, Digital and the Creative Industries. Key partnerships include:
       Brain+ ApS (Danish SME): focused on the use of brain training technologies for pre-
        symptomatic detection and prevention of dementia (also with Alzheimer Europe).
       OxfordVR (gameChange project; NIHR i4i Grand Challenge on Mental Health): exploring
        use of virtual reality to help adults with psychosis.
       Xenzone: successful SBRI phase 1 application to develop a new peer-support service
        within their Kooth digital mental health service; development and implementation of a
        new ‘opt-in’ consent system for Kooth’s user data.
       Magstim: NIHR EME grant (BRIGhTMIND) to evaluate TMS for treatment-resistant
        depression.
       QbTech: assessment and management of ADHD and has resulted in a number of
        successful funding applications (e.g., AQUA - NIHR CLAHRC EM, £300K; QUOTA -
        NIHR RfPB, £250K). We partner with EMAHSN on national adoption of the technology.
       BfB Labs: school-based evaluation of a new game to treat anxiety in children (Innovate
        UK Digital Health Catalyst; NHS England - SBRI Phase 1, £100K).




                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Alpha-Stim: trials within Nottinghamshire Healthcare Trust to evaluate their cranial
        stimulation device for generalised anxiety disorder in adults (now adopted by the trust
        and we are exploring use for depression).
       ProReal: Avatar programme developed in partnership (NHS England - SBRI Phase 1,
        £100K; SBRI Phase 2, £1M) and now used in a number of NHS trusts for the treatment
        of borderline personality disorder (adults) and emotional difficulties (young people).
       P1vital: EU-funded PReDicT clinical trial has recently completed recruitment (913
        participants across Europe).
 SP is increasing engagement with industry. Research in Visual Neuroscience has helped
 develop new binocular approaches to treating amblyopia (lazy eye) in children. The development
 of a new device was supported by a Wellcome Trust fellowship (Roach) and an i4i award from
 NIHR (£153K). A multi-site RCT has been completed alongside regulatory approval. The device
 will now be further developed and marketed by a newly formed company called Kids Love To
 See. SP also had PhD training partnerships with a number of pharmaceutical companies,
 including b-neuro, Boehringer Ingelheim, Hoffman-LaRoche, Neuro-Bio (Bast, Moran).
 Hearing research on the cost-effectiveness of cochlear implants (Kitterick) has informed a
 change in NICE guidance on cochlear implants; questionnaires (Akeroyd) are now routinely
 used by the major international hearing-aid and cochlear-implant companies developing new
 devices.
 PPN partnered with multiple pharmaceutical companies, including Roche, Esteve, Servier, Shire,
 Proximagen, Forest Laboratories, GSK, to establish and characterise rodent models of CNS
 disorders. These were instrumental in validating several therapeutic drug targets to treat learning
 and memory dysfunction in humans (Fone, King). Pardon led on knowledge exchange awards
 (MRC Proximity) for drug discovery projects, with Eisai, Astex Pharmaceuticals and RegenRex
 Biopharmaceutical, to investigate the therapeutic potential of Thymosin β4 for
 neurodegenerative diseases.
 4.5 Contribution to society
 We have engagement committees and academic leads who support outreach and knowledge
 exchange activities and keep a rolling record of public engagement activities. Staff and their
 postgraduate students volunteer annually to present at established Festival of Science and
 Curiosity (February) and BSA Science in the Park (March) events. We also volunteer for Wonder
 and Mayfest (community events held at the University Park Campus May/June), Nottingham
 Potential and Sutton Trust Summer Schools (June/July). Widening participation initiatives
 include taster sessions for Year 10 school students, and placements for PGR Educational
 Psychology cohorts (10-12/year) in a range of schools to make sustained contributions to
 knowledge exchange in educational settings.
 Our annual Summer Scientist Week engaged children in fun science activities: posters and
 information leaflets about our research were sent out to families, to encourage children (aged 4-
 11 years) to take part in research studies and psychology-themed games. Families received a
 follow up newsletter and provide feedback. This attracted a high proportion of repeat visitors,
 resulting in longevity of the research connections and a growing family of research participants.
 Other universities now run similar events based on the Nottingham model (e.g. Oxford,
 Plymouth). Summer Scientist Week was shortlisted for the Hoop Awards 2019 in the ‘Best for
 Learning’ category – recognising and celebrating family activity organisers who go ‘above and
 beyond’ to entertain, educate and inspire children worldwide.
 Silver Scientist, a one-day engagement event specifically aimed at older adults and senior
 citizens took place for the first time in 2019 and was scheduled as a two-day event in July 2020
 but cancelled due to Covid-19. Summer Scientist 2020 was successfully adapted to run virtually.
 Pint of Science contributions included Moran’s ‘Mental Health and Me’ and ‘Bells and Smells
 predicting psychosis before the symptoms’ (2019), Sheppard and das Nair’s ‘Imagining the
 invisible: Dealing with invisible symptoms of MS’ (2018), and ‘Pour your own drink demo’ (Jones,
 2018).

                                                                                            Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Café Connect (Wellcome Trust People Award) was a finalist in the University Knowledge
 Exchange and Impact Awards 2016. Uniquely, Café Connect involved all stages of the research
 lifecycle: public interaction and engagement, exchange of research ideas, promoted participation
 across a range of research topics, data collection and dissemination of results. Café Connect
 supported the development of the bids for a Youth Digital Mental Health Research Centre
 (Hollis, Townsend).
 MindTech holds an annual national symposium bringing together 200-250 members of the
 public, mental health services users, clinicans, researchers and industry developers.
 National self-harm data were harnessed for suicide prevention research via engagement with
 the Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee (IACC). IACC advises the US government on
 autism-related policy. To date, over 650 autistic people and their allies have completed the
 online consultation, for an INSAR policy brief ranking the top 10 research and policy priorities to
 prevent suicide in autistic people (Cassidy).
 Working with Nottinghamshire police the Nottingham Impact Fellowship scheme funded work on
 the best ways to support autistic individuals in police custody, including a training video and
 toolkit (Ropar).
 Townsend has worked to transform clinical practice for self-harm, through the uptake of a
 therapeutic assessment (card-sorting task) and delivery of expert testimony and NHS training.
 Ferguson, working with the Australian Red Cross, has developed a warm-glow marketing tool to
 enhance the retention rate for first time blood donors.
 Cragg was involved in developing the content for an open resource to improve numeracy
 (PReterm Infants' Skills in Mathematics). Since its release in May 2019, this resource has been
 accessed from 58 countries by 12,641 users: teachers (41%), educational psychologists (5%),
 other educational professionals (19%), health professionals (13%), academics/researchers (2%)
 and parents (20%), with 97% users reporting that that they would recommend this resource to
 others.
 We collaborate with colleagues from the NHS, e.g. organising research days to bring together
 people with MS and their families to hear about the latest research (planned, in progress, or
 findings). We have a strong focus on PPI in research using NIHR INVOLVE and McPin
 Foundation definitions: people with and without lived-experience of mental health problems (or
 other relevant health issues) are actively involved in research. We take a multi-level approach to
 involvement at a strategic-level, e.g. inclusion of PPI volunteers at steering, strategy and
 operational group meetings and within research groups and projects. We foster a culture where
 our involvement volunteers are ‘part of the team’, their contribution valued, and its impact
 understood. Many of our clinically-focused PhD students pitch their ideas to PPI groups for
 feedback, which informs their project protocols. We engender PPI within all levels of our clinical
 research, providing expenses and offer a fee for involvement activities, with policies for these
 processes. We provide volunteers with training and development opportunities. A key feature of
 our approach is shared leadership of PPI, including staff with personal lived-experience of
 mental health difficulties.
 PPI was at the heart of the James Lind Alliance Priority Setting Partnership (PSP) on Digital
 Technology for Mental Health (led by MindTech). PPI involvement was key to communicating
 and engaging with people with lived-experience across the country in the prioritisation exercise,
 involving surveys, discussions over social media and YouTube video production. The PSP
 involved 1200 people who contributed 1500 questions. Our subsequent 2018 Lancet Psychiatry
 paper exemplifies our track record of co-authoring academic papers with people with lived
 experience.




                                                                                             Page 23
