Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Greenwich

 Unit of Assessment: 22 - Anthropology and Development Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 i) Unit Context

 This submission represents the social scientists of the Natural Resources Institute (NRI) of the
 University of Greenwich, an interdisciplinary research centre that also undertakes advisory work,
 training and education in support of global food security, sustainable development and poverty
 reduction. NRI social scientists include agricultural, environmental and development economists,
 social anthropologists, sociologists and others, and have been submitted under Development
 Studies, and subsequently under Anthropology and Development Studies, in RAE 2001, RAE
 2008, and REF 2014. They work in close collaboration with NRI’s agricultural and food
 scientists, the majority of whom are submitted under UoA6. Our research is increasingly funded
 through competitive external grants from UK research councils, the British Academy, leading
 global foundations and other sources, and remains integrated with advisory and consultancy
 activities, leading to on-going relationships with donors, research funders and research users in
 the public, private and voluntary sectors in the UK and overseas.

 During 2019 NRI was awarded a £7.5 million grant under Research England’s highly competitive
 Expanding Excellence in England Programme, for our Food and Security Initiative (FaNSI): from
 a total of 130 applications only 13 grants were awarded across the entire range of higher
 education in England. FaNSI has been designed to enable us to employ new research staff
 ranging from internationally eminent full Professors to Early Career Researchers, strengthening
 existing streams of work and developing new research areas that bolster NRI’s capacity to
 address some of the most pressing global challenges of our time. 11 FaNSI-funded staff are
 social scientists and are submitted here. FaNSI has also funded PhD students, five of which are
 lead-supervised and two co-supervised by staff submitted under this UoA. FaNSI has also
 facilitated a deepening of our relationships with selected African partner universities (all of which
 are recognised as African Centers of Excellence under World Bank Funding).

 The NRI social scientists submitted to UoA22 constitute a single Development Studies Research
 Group, covering several themes in development studies. Research spans five of NRI’s
 Development Programmes (see A iii below):

 •   Climate Change, Agriculture, and Natural Resources (leader Morton)
 •   Sustainable Trade and Responsible Business (leader Nelson)
 •   Gender and Social Difference (leader Lora Forsythe)
 •   Land, Rural Institutions, Governance and Finance (leader Quan)
 •   Food Systems for Improved Nutrition (leader de Bruyn, submitted under UoA6).

 The choice of priority research areas is dynamic, responsive and ambitious: we aim to provide
 world-leading research and evidence in response to key global societal and environmental
 challenges. For example, our work under Food Systems for Improved Nutrition is rapidly
 expanding, and our work on climate change has gained new impetus through appointment of
 FaNSI staff (e.g. de Pinto) with expertise in incorporating climate models in analyses of food
 security at the global level. We have appointed new staff (Brück and Okpara) with research
 expertise on state fragility and conflict, bringing both quantitative economics and socio-
 ecological approaches to such research. We have an expanding portfolio of research in
 quantitative environmental, resource and development economics, quantitative analyses of
 agricultural value chains, and research on rural and development finance including index
 insurance. New research areas include social mobility and accountability in governance
 (Iversen) and the impacts of mobile phone technology on agricultural outcomes and on adult
 education (Ksoll). An increasing share of our research is made up of rigorously designed impact
 evaluations of development interventions.

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 ii) Research Strategy

 Within NRI’s overall mission in support of global food security, sustainable development and
 poverty reduction, and our work as development-oriented social scientists within an
 interdisciplinary Institute, the key points of the research strategy set out in our submission to
 REF2014 were:

 a) Growth in research income and diversification of research funding sources
 b) Maintenance of a portfolio of large research projects giving financial stability and growth,
    alongside smaller innovative projects
 c) A broad-based strategy for dissemination of research outputs, including high-quality peer-
    reviewed journals, other media, participation in international scientific assessments and in
    policy fora
 d) Continued growth in PhD student numbers.

 Growth and diversification of research income
 Significant progress has been made since the 2014 submission in increasing our research
 income, as shown in Figure 1, winning large research projects, and diversifying our funding base
 in order to increase the sustainability of Development Studies research at NRI. Overall, we have
 received research funding worth £11.72 million for the academic years 2013-2020 compared to
 £4.26 million for the academic years 2008-2013. Over the same period, funding from UKRI, the
 Research Councils and the British Academy has grown from £105,000 to £1.63 million (without
 counting certain UKRI projects, such as SENTINEL – see below – where NRI is a sub-grantee).

            3,000,000

            2,500,000

            2,000,000

            1,500,000

            1,000,000

             500,000

                   -
                            13/14    14/15   15/16    16/17     17/18     18/19     19/20

                        Figure 1: Research income for UoA22 - 2013/14-2019/20 (£)

 FaNSI will take forward NRI’s work on food security, with a particular focus on sub-Saharan
 Africa, under the themes of climate change, food loss and waste, sustainable agricultural
 intensification and food systems for nutrition. NRI social scientists participated fully in designing
 and drafting the proposal, with two of the theme leaders being social scientists submitted here
 (Morton for climate change and Bennett for food loss and waste). 11 of the 24 new staff
 recruited under FANSI are social scientists focused on research issues in developing countries
 and are submitted here. FaNSI will provide core funding for these staff between 2019 and 2022,
 during which time they will transition to becoming sustainably self-funded from UKRI and other
 sources.

 Our progress in growing and diversifying research income reflects our commitment to reduce
 poverty and improve outcomes for smallholder farming households, women and other
 marginalised and vulnerable groups. We combine rigorous and original social-science
 approaches with a continued commitment to interdisciplinary research that works with the
 agricultural, food, environmental and health sciences.



                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Major projects won by NRI social scientists demonstrate our strategy of diversifying funding
 sources, working within the Development Programmes set out above and other core
 development studies areas such as rural financial institutions, and investing in new areas of
 research such as the agriculture-nutrition interface.

 •   Optimal Packaging of Insurance and Credit for Smallholder Farmers in Africa (ESRC, £700k)
 •   Intercultural models to improve nutrition and health of indigenous populations through
     gender-sensitive agroforestry practices in Peru (Newton Fund, £587k with related British
     Academy funding of £50k)
 •   SENTINEL: Social and Environmental Trade-offs in African Agriculture. NRI are partners in
     this IIED-led ESRC-funded project (NRI share £227k)
 •   Two related projects on Using ICTs to Understand the Relationships between Labour-Saving
     Agricultural Innovations, Women's Time Use and Maternal and Child Nutrition Outcomes
     (DFID/Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, £453k)
 •   Research on the role of fish in food systems in the African Great Lakes, with additional
     components on research impact monitoring and management of the broader research
     programme (WorldFish, £392k)
 •   Independent impact evaluation of private-sector and NGO delivery models within WorldFish’s
     research on ‘Aquaculture: increasing income, diversifying diets, and empowering women in
     Bangladesh’ (Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, in collaboration with the International
     Initiative for Impact Evaluation (3ie) and Innovations for Poverty Action: NRI share £216k)
 •   Evaluation of the Early Impacts of the Better Cotton Initiative on Smallholder Cotton
     Producers in Kurnool District, India (ISEAL Alliance and Better Cotton Initiative, £216k).

 Other projects have been won from the Consultative Group for International Agricultural
 Research (CGIAR) system, especially through IFPRI for research on innovative insurance-
 contingent credit. Projects have also been won from UNU-WIDER for research on social
 mobility, UNDP for research on the empowerment of women in drylands, the McKnight
 Foundation for research on farmer experimentation, the FutureDAMS consortium at University of
 Manchester, the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs for research on livestock value
 chains, and the Darwin Initiative for research on conservation of native yam species through
 improved markets.

 NRI social scientists have continued to make significant contributions to designing, winning and
 implementing interdisciplinary projects led by natural scientists within NRI and elsewhere:

 •   Cassava: Adding Value for Africa Phase 2 (Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation): NRI
     negotiated a second phase of this large-scale applied research project for 2016-19, for which
     key inputs were provided by Lamboll and Martin (total value £13.1 million
 •   Dual-resistant cassava for climate resilience, economic development and increased food
     security: an African Union-funded project led by Gowda (submitted under UoA6) which
     contains a strong economic component led by Shee (total value £704k)
 •   Sustainability-Intensification Trade-offs in Coffee Agroforestry in Central America: a BBSRC-
     funded project led by Haggar (submitted under UoA6) contains a significant environmental
     economics modelling component led by Katic (total value £1,137k).

 NRI social scientists are also involved in work on processes of agricultural and environmental
 change within the Global North. Katic, with Gatto, is leading the economic component of the
 Diverseafood project: Evaluating the potential of multi-trophic aquaculture to improve nutrition
 and ecosystem sustainability in the UK (UKRI Global Food Security Programme, NRI share
 £148k). Pant and Okpara also bring expertise on processes of change within Canadian and
 European agriculture.

 Research capacity-building projects, and projects combining research with advisory/consultancy
 services, all of which themselves have substantial research components, won by submitted staff
 since 2014, include:


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Management of the Quality Support Component for the Climate Impact Research Capacity
     Leadership Enhancement Programme (DFID through association of Commonwealth
     Universities, £350k)
 •   Provision of Liaison Scientist to the McKnight Foundation's Collaborative Crop Research
     Program (£120k)
 •   Land: Enhancing Governance for Economic Development (LEGEND) Programme – DFID
     through KPMG: NRI provided Team Leadership and other services (£594k)
 •   Independent Monitoring and Evaluation of DFID’s Responsible, Accountable and
     Transparent Enterprise Programme (£653k)
 •   Independent Monitoring of DFID’s Investments in Forests and Sustainable Land Use
     Programme.

 Dissemination of research findings
 Since REF 2014, we have seen NRI research published in high-impact peer-reviewed journals,
 including: Agricultural Economics, Agricultural Systems, Agriculture and Human Values, British
 Journal of Nutrition, Business Strategy and the Environment, Climate and Development, Climate
 Risk Management, Climatic Change, Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental
 Management, Ecological Economics, Economic Development and Cultural Change, Ecosystem
 Services, Food Security, The Geographical Journal, Global Environmental Change, Global Food
 Security, International Journal of Agricultural Sustainability, Journal of Cleaner Production,
 Journal of Development Studies, Journal of Environmental Policy and Planning, Nature
 Sustainability, Science of the Total Environment, Weather and Climate Extremes, WIRes
 Climate Change, World Bank Research Observer and World Development. New appointments
 have demonstrated their ability during their recent careers to publish in a range of the highest-
 quality journals including American Journal of Agricultural Economics, Demography, Journal of
 Development Economics and Journal of the European Economic Association, and their
 experience in designing and presenting research for publication in high-impact journals will be
 shared widely for even higher academic impact.

 Of outputs included in the current submission, 11 (19%) appear in the current list of the ten most
 highly-ranked development journals in Scimago Journal Ranking, compared to none in REF
 2014, demonstrating our progress in research excellence. For the researchers submitted here,
 50% of the publications on Scopus in the period 2014 to 2021 were in the top 10% of journals by
 Scimago Journal Rank, and 20% were in the top 10% worldwide by field-weighted citations.
 Our academic publications have made crucial contributions to important debates in development
 studies and neighbouring disciplines, as the following examples show.

 Iversen and colleagues have published a major review article “Beyond Poverty Escapes –
 Social Mobility in Developing Countries” (World Bank Research Observer, 2019). This highlights
 weaknesses in research practice as explanations for often contradictory findings, examines
 challenges to studying and measuring social mobility that are particular to developing countries,
 and points to important contrasts in the drivers of intergenerational mobility in industrialised and
 developing country settings. The article sets the agenda and provides the starting point and
 motivation for a new volume with the same authors as editors, Social Mobility in Developing
 Countries: Concepts, Methods and Determinants, forthcoming with Oxford University Press,
 which aims to be a UNU-WIDER landmark publication with contributions from leading scholars
 within sociology, economics, political science and anthropology.

 Katic and colleagues (Grafton et al., Realizing resilience for decision-making, Nature
 Sustainability, 2019) provide a rigorous definition and conceptualization of socio-ecological
 resilience involving resistance, recovery and robustness, integrated into a heuristic for resilience
 management that can be applied in multiple settings – the examples given are resilience for
 surface water flows, resilience for emergency management of communities and resilience for
 marine capture fisheries.



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Morton and colleagues (Rivera-Ferre et al., Re-framing the climate change debate in the
 livestock sector: mitigation and adaptation options, Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Climate
 Change, 2016), recast findings from three chapters of the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (for
 one of which Morton was Co-ordinating Lead Author) across two Working Groups, bridging the
 gap, both academic and institutional, between discussions on impacts and adaptation on one
 side and mitigation on the other. Findings on the significant vulnerability of livestock keepers
 (especially the large numbers of poor livestock-keepers in developing countries) to climate
 change are integrated with findings on the responsibility of the global livestock sector for
 greenhouse gas emissions, through a focus on the diversity of global livestock production and
 the livelihoods that depend on it, and their disaggregation through a concept of livestock
 systems, leading to a more nuanced analysis of potential adaptation and mitigation strategies,
 including some win-win solutions.

 Nelson and Tallontire (Battlefields of ideas: changing narratives and power dynamics in private
 standards in global agricultural value chains, Agriculture and Human Values, 2014) contribute to
 emerging understanding of power in value chains, and particularly the concept of ideational
 power and how it is exerted and resisted. The paper draws on previous work on narratives in
 development studies, by examining the way competing factions, in the context of horticulture and
 floriculture value chains linking Kenya and the United Kingdom, assert their own narratives about
 value chain relations, the role of standards and related multi-stakeholder processes. Nelson has
 subsequently co-edited a Special Issue of Business Strategy and the Environment on
 Challenges of the Sustainability Transition in Global Trade.

 Santika and colleagues (Impacts of palm oil sustainability certification on village well-being and
 poverty in Indonesia, Nature Sustainability, 2020) have contributed to debates on the social and
 environmental impacts of both oil-palm development itself and sustainability certification, through
 an integrated analysis of spatialised certification records, vegetation coverage data, and large-
 scale village census data including proxies for well-being, taking in 1087 villages across
 Sumatra, Kalimantan and Papua.

 Shee and colleagues (Design and rating of risk-contingent credit for balancing business and
 financial risks for Kenyan farmers, Applied Economics, 2019), continuing debates on index-
 linked weather insurance for developing-country agriculture, describe a novel insurance-linked
 credit model piloted in Kenya. As well as presenting the product delivery mechanism, the paper
 sets out an innovative design and methodology, illustrating the use of Monte Carlo methods for
 risk modelling that can be integrated within the general insurance and credit rating framework,
 which will be of interest to specialists in development economics and agricultural finance. In
 subsequent articles, Shee and colleagues have used contingent valuation and discrete choice
 experiments to elicit demand and supply side preferences for insurance‐linked credit.

 NRI social scientists also regularly publish in more practice-oriented journals such as
 Development in Practice and Gender and Development (both published by Oxfam) and Food
 Chain and Waterlines (both published by Practical Action), in textbooks oriented towards
 students (e.g. a recent chapter on climate change in the second edition of Agricultural Systems,
 eds. Snapp and Pound, 2017), and through international agencies (e.g. a suite of four reports on
 the Empowerment of Dryland Women published by UNDP
 (https://www.undp.org/content/undp/en/home/librarypage/poverty-reduction/empowerment-of-
 dryland-women.html ).

 Research students
 NRI has seen a significant growth since 2014 in numbers of research students working on
 social-scientific or closely allied topics. Since 2014 we have seen 19 PhD completions in this
 UoA in NRI compared to 11 (five in NRI, six in other parts of the University) reported in REF
 2014. This increasing trend, which took place before additional staff recruitment under FaNSI,
 reflects a growth of a research supervision culture, and an increased attractiveness of NRI for
 prospective research students and research funders in development studies. PhD students have
 been drawn from several African countries as well as the UK, Canada and the Netherlands, and

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research has covered a wide range of topics in development studies, using both qualitative and
 quantitative approaches. NRI staff have been involved in supervision of completed PhDs in other
 universities (Morton at Makerere University, Uganda, and Santika at University of Queensland,
 Australia).

 Future Strategy
 NRI’s Strategy, entitled Knowledge for a Sustainable World, is under development alongside the
 new University of Greenwich Strategy, which will be finalised in 2021. For its social science
 research, NRI will now build on the considerable expansion in research capacity funded by
 FaNSI. Researchers recruited under FaNSI are integrated in NRI’s departments, in the
 Development Studies Research Group, and in development programmes, for example
 presenting their work in internal seminars, entering into mentoring arrangements, and making
 joint applications for research funding with other staff.

 We will intensify our focus on research excellence by publishing research in the highest-quality
 peer-reviewed journals, while also continuing to produce user-focused research outputs to
 achieve impacts on policy and practice. We will continue to seek to expand and diversify our
 research funding, including seeking increased UKRI funding, so that the new posts created
 under FaNSI become self-sustaining after 2022. We will continue to grow research student
 numbers. Under FaNSI we will explore the feasibility of innovative dual PhDs jointly validated by
 the University of Greenwich and by our African partner universities. NRI is a member of the
 London Interdisciplinary Biosciences Consortium (LIDo) for BBSRC-funded doctoral research,
 which, although its disciplinary focus is not on development studies, will provide opportunities for
 co-supervision. NRI is also the lead organisation in the UK Food Systems Centre for Doctoral
 Training for doctoral research, funded by UKRI and other government agencies with £5 million
 over six years. While the focus is on the UK food system, some of the research will concern key
 international and developing-country issues that impact that system. Two staff submitted here
 (Po and Turner) will have key management roles within the Centre. We also intend to build on
 the experience of these programmes to pursue opportunities for long-term funding of social-
 science PhDs.

 In terms of research themes and approaches, FaNSI funding will support an expansion of our
 social science research within three areas:

 •   Climate change, agriculture and natural resources, where we will research vulnerability and
     opportunities for adaptation among the rural poor, including the role of local institutions in
     supporting adaptation, as well as taking new directions, such as large-scale modelling of
     food security under climate change, the qualitative and quantitative understanding of the
     climate-conflict-food security nexus, and issues around forest conservation and climate
     change mitigation (Morton, De Pinto and others).
 •   Food systems for improved nutrition, which includes conceptualisation and exploration of
     food environments, research on innovative methods for exploring women’s time use and
     empowerment within food systems (such as wearable cameras), and interdisciplinary
     research with nutritionists, agricultural scientists and vets (led by De Bruyn submitted under
     UoA6 , and involving Martin, Katic, Picchioni and others).
 •   Quantifying and reducing food loss and waste: research on this globally important topic
     which has to date been led by Bennett but largely carried out by NRI’s natural scientists, will
     under FaNSI also be implemented by economists and other social scientists.

 Outside FaNSI, we will continue to work on research topics where we have a strong track
 record. These include:

 •   rural institutions, under which we include land tenure and policy, agricultural research and
     extension services, financial services including index insurance, and the rural development
     impacts of ICTs (Quan, Martin, Shee, Ksoll and others).



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   sustainable trade and responsible business, under which we examine diverse standards
     initiatives, exploring methodologies for rigorous impact assessment and looking at underlying
     issues of governance and power (Nelson and Martin).
 •   gender and social difference, which we have researched in the context of food value chains
     and land policy, and in which two recently employed staff (Picchioni and Po) will add to our
     expertise. Expansions will include other facets of inequality including social mobility
     (Iversen).

 We also foresee strategic expansion into new research areas:

 •   state fragility and conflict: work by new staff on both quantitative approaches to identifying
     impacts of conflict (Brück), and the interactions between conflict and environmental change
     (Okpara), will provide synergies with existing interests in climate change, pastoralism and
     land governance.
 •   governance and accountability: Iversen and Ksoll and others will continue work on political
     behaviour, corruption and gender, and the impacts of adult education, in both cases making
     use of advanced quantitative research approaches.

 We will continue to commit social science expertise to interdisciplinary research on problems in
 food and agriculture, for example the development of value chains for root crops, the post-
 harvest management of aflatoxin contamination, and business models for fortification of foods
 with micronutrients.

 iii) Impact Strategy

 NRI’s mission is to “generate, apply and share knowledge and develop skills for a sustainable
 world”. This involves both using the findings of social scientific research directly to influence
 development policy and practice, and using findings from social-scientific research to improve
 the relevance, uptake and impact of agricultural and environmental research.

 NRI social scientists work for impact of different kinds: changes in farming practices and
 agricultural value chains; changes in nutritional knowledge and diets; changes in access to
 finance and risk management instruments; changes in the conduct of and management of
 agricultural research and extension; changes in the management of voluntary trade standards;
 changes in the design and operation of rural financial institutions; and changes in national and
 international policy for rural development and for natural resource management. We work with a
 great range of user groups: agricultural service providers; developing-country researchers in
 both the social and the agricultural sciences; community-based organisations, national and
 international NGOs; developing country governments; international organisations (World Bank,
 FAO, World Trade Organisation); international research organisations (the CGIAR and UNU-
 WIDER); FCDO; ethical trading and standards organisations; private-sector actors, etc..
 Beneficiaries include: smallholder farmers, pastoralists, artisanal fisherfolk and wild harvesters
 and their communities; farmer organisations; small and medium businesses connected to
 commodity value chains and markets; and rural labourers within the farming and trading
 systems. Research and subsequent outcomes are designed to produce differentiated impacts on
 different social groups (by gender, wealth, livelihood strategy etc.).

 Our approach to achieving impact involves both designing dissemination, uptake and impact
 strategies into our own research projects, and building on those projects in our capacity-building,
 advisory and consultancy practice.

 Design of research projects for impact
 Our research project on Upscaling Best Fit Maize-Legume Technologies has built into its design
 an integral process of dissemination of findings to end-users (smallholder farmer groups). The
 findings – learning on the performance of maize-legume technologies for different
 socioeconomic and agro-ecological contexts and development of new technologies - are
 themselves the product of joint research activities between end-users, researchers and other

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 stakeholders. Data is collected and analysed jointly and separately by farmer research groups
 and researchers. Sharing or dissemination of research findings is a multi-directional process with
 farmer researchers presenting results and providing feedback into the process.

 Impact through capacity-building
 NRI social scientists bid for, design and work on a variety of projects that are designed to
 enhance the impact of existing research, translate research knowledge into policy, build
 research capacity in developing countries, or combine research with practical interventions to
 improve livelihoods. These projects combine ongoing research with capacity-building and
 development activities in which we make use of the findings of previous research.
 Under the DFID-funded SAIRLA Programme, NRI social scientists brought to bear findings of
 previous research on agricultural innovation and multi-stakeholder social learning to add value to
 research on sustainable agricultural intensification carried out by a range of national and
 international actors in six African countries. This notably included the development (led by
 Lamboll) of multi-stakeholder learning alliances at national and international level to enable
 social learning and innovation to improve national-level policy and investment decision-making
 related to SAI, through contributions to actor and network capacity as part of the good
 governance of the evidence system.

 Under the Insurance-Linked Credit project in Kenya (led for NRI by Shee) maize farmers were
 trained and provided access to commercial credit and insurance products, in a multi-arm
 randomised controlled trial to assess unbiased impact of insurance-linked credit on agricultural
 investment, productivity, resilience, and farmer welfare.

 Under the GCRF/ESRC-funded SENTINEL project, Martin, Katic and Po contribute to building
 the capacity of African and UK research partners to co-develop and implement cutting-edge
 interdisciplinary research on the drivers, impacts and trade-offs of agricultural expansion into
 forest and woodland areas. SENTINEL works through collaborative research and learning,
 training and mentoring of students and early career researchers, and direct engagement with
 senior research managers and national stakeholders. Starting with an analysis of research
 capacity needs among partners in UK, Ghana, Ethiopia and Zambia the capacity-development
 strategy covers individual and research team competencies, research processes - including
 capacities to manage and work effectively in diverse partnerships - and research-user
 engagement. NRI social scientists have contributed to the co-development of the research
 methodologies and tools, conducted practical training in the field and remotely mentored the
 analysis of the processes of interdisciplinary research and team working.

 Morton for NRI led the Quality Support Component of CIRCLE (Climate Impact Research
 Capacity and Leadership Enhancement) which provided international specialist advisors to
 African early career researchers on aspects of climate change. Five NRI social scientists
 (alongside several other NRI staff) have fulfilled this role for 21 African Fellows, bringing to bear
 their own previous research experience on climate change and other topics, and Morton has
 also provided capacity-building to senior African climate researchers on the organisation and
 management of climate impact research.

 Lamboll, Martin and others have worked alongside NRI colleagues in food and agricultural
 sciences, and African researchers in NRI’s C:AVA 2 (Cassava: Adding Value for Africa Phase II)
 project, which has been developing value chains for High Quality Cassava Flour and other
 cassava products in five African countries, building on previous research on value chain analysis
 at both near-farm and industrial levels, innovation systems, and approaches to impact
 evaluation. The project worked with 90,000 farmers and with small- and large-scale processors
 to achieve large-scale impact (as described in an Impact Case Study for UoA6). Findings from a
 study on farmers’ decision-making on production, utilisation and market sales have informed the
 targeting of cassava development approaches according to farm scale, input level and different
 product uses by men and women.

 Impact through advisory and consultancy practice

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We also aim to achieve research impact through our consultancy and advisory practice, for
 example through DFID’s LEGEND programme, where Quan was overall team leader, building
 on his record of research work on land tenure and land policy in developing countries. The
 programme combined production of policy advice for DFID and other international agencies with
 generation of new knowledge, for example research on corruption in implementing land policy,
 and a synthesis of evidence on land governance and inclusive agri-business.

 NRI’s research on agricultural and forest value chains is now being applied to a wide variety of
 value chains through the VCA4D (Value Chain Analysis for Development) managed by the
 Agrinatura consortium, which includes NRI, for the European Commission. The programme is
 designed to provide policy-relevant advice to European Union Delegations in developing
 countries, while building the global knowledge base on agricultural value chains. Martin and
 Ulrich Kleih (now retired) contributed to the design and piloting of approaches for the economic
 and social components of value chain analysis, and NRI staff including Bennett, Katic, Lalani,
 Lamboll, Morton and Onumah have subsequently contributed to the analysis of 14 value
 chains.

 Impact through international assessments and policy fora
 NRI staff continue to participate in international scientific assessments: Morton completed his
 involvement as Co-ordinating Lead Author for the Fifth Assessment Report of the
 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) in 2014, steering the chapter on Rural
 Areas (submitted as a report to governments under REF 2014) to final acceptance and
 publication, and acting as a member of the drafting committee for the Summary for Policy-
 Makers. He was an invited participant to the Scoping Meeting for the IPCC Special Report on
 Climate Change and Land in 2017 and then served as a Lead Author on the report’s chapter on
 “Risk Management and Decision-Making in Relation to Sustainable Development”, 2017-19, in
 particular drafting sections on corruption and maladaptation, on indigenous knowledge and on
 land tenure. Quan served as a Contributing Author on the same chapter, and Pant is serving as
 a Contributing Author on the Sixth Assessment Report. Participation in IPCC reports involving
 production of policy-relevant assessments and syntheses of knowledge.

 Within the work of the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem
 Services (IPBES), Santika participated in the workshop on modelling Nature Futures Scenarios
 (2021) and is currently acting as a reviewer for the Scoping Reports for the Nexus and
 Transformative Change Assessments for IPBES-8. Nelson is serving as a Contributing Author
 on the Values Assessment.

 Santika is a member of the Advisory Committee of the IUCN Oil Palm Task Force. She has also
 worked as a Scientific Adviser to the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) with inputs to
 several working groups and committees.

 We also regularly present findings in important policy fora: Iversen was an invited participant in
 the UN Dialogue on the Intergenerational Transmission of Poverty, convened by the UN Special
 Rapporteur on Extreme Poverty and Human Rights. Quan presented, organised side-events and
 chaired conference sessions at the World Bank's Annual Conference on Land and Poverty every
 year between 2014 and 2019, and organised and presented at official side-events of the World
 Committee on Food Security at FAO in 2017 and 2019, also organising a LEGEND workshop
 with the CFS private sector mechanism in 2019. Morton presented findings of the IPCC’s Fifth
 Assessment Report to the UK Committee on Climate Change and to the official Turkish launch
 of the Fifth Assessment Report in Istanbul in 2014. He presented NRI findings on the
 empowerment of women in drylands to an official side-event of the Conference of Parties of the
 UN Convention to Combat Desertification in Ankara. He was an invited participant at a workshop
 convened by the Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel of the Global Environment Facility on
 Indicators for Agro-ecosystem Resilience in Sydney, 2014. Naziri is working within the UN Food
 System Summit National Dialogue for Vietnam and has also provided input into the review of
 IFAD’s Country Strategic Opportunities Programme.


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 NRI uses our close association with the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Agriculture and Food
 for Development, which aims to engender progressive and informed debate on agriculture,
 nutrition and wider food/water security in the developing world, to communicate with policy-
 makers.

 Overall, NRI’s corporate environment encourages creative synergy between research and
 consultancy in such a way as to facilitate impact. All staff are facilitated to create and maintain
 relationships with a broad range of partners and research users and use these partnerships in
 creating research proposals. Relationships with key stakeholders, for example different sections
 of the European Commission, The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, FCDO, and the Forum for
 Agricultural Research in Africa, are fostered by designated members of NRI’s senior
 management team.

 Senior managers provide substantive advice (e.g. on dissemination to non-academic users,
 uptake of research findings and impact) on research proposals, as part of a more general
 process of mentoring of more junior staff and strategic planning for NRI and its departments.
 Staff members with expertise on M&E, impact assessment and Theories of Change (Iversen,
 Martin, Nelson and Ravinder Kumar) are able to advise on these issues. NRI also employs a
 full-time Communications Specialist, a Communications Officer and an IT Systems Development
 Manager with three staff who can advise on developing project websites and webpages, and an
 administrator who manages our social media accounts.

 NRI’s Development Programmes, each of which connects research, advisory and consultancy
 work, promote a multi-disciplinary approach to address significant developmental challenges and
 opportunities arising from current trends and emerging policy debates. They provide a vision of
 our future work in order to attract wider donor interest and support, and translation of research
 findings into impact. The process of developing and promoting the Programmes is overseen by
 the Director of Programme Development (Martin). Since 2018-19 two of these programmes
 (Climate Change, Agriculture and Natural Resources led by Morton, and Food Systems for
 Improved Nutrition led by Julia De Bruyn submitted under UoA 6) have received funding for
 programme development from GCRF-linked QR funds, which as of academic year 2020-21 is
 extended to other programmes involving NRI social scientists, led by Bennett, Martin, Nelson
 and others.

 iv) Structures to Support Interdisciplinary Research

 NRI is a strongly interdisciplinary institute. Interdisciplinarity between economists and non-
 economic social scientists is intrinsic to our approach to research, and NRI social scientists
 collaborate with colleagues in agricultural and food sciences, as exemplified by several large
 projects won since 2014 and highlighted under A ii above. Research projects predominantly
 investigating issues in food science and post-harvest agriculture currently are and recently have
 been led by Bennett, an economist. Many of the partnerships maintained by NRI social
 scientists with UK, European and international organisations, outlined in D below, are also highly
 interdisciplinary in nature.

 In April 2018, NRI organised a one-day seminar in Greenwich on the topic of “Examining the
 Role of Development Studies in Strengthening and Promoting Interdisciplinary Research for
 Food Security and Sustainable Development”, with participation from NRI social scientists, NRI
 natural scientists and outside partners from LSHTM, the Royal Botanical Gardens, and the DSA.
 An example of our published interdisciplinary work is the paper on “Validation of a life-logging
 wearable camera method and the 24-h diet recall method for assessing maternal and child
 dietary diversity” (Bulungu et al., British Journal of Nutrition, 2020) in which NRI economists and
 gender specialists including Katic, with an NRI ICT applications specialist and nutritionists and
 public health specialists from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and African
 partner institutions, describe the design and testing of an ICT-based solution to the problem of
 measuring dietary diversity. Similar methods have subsequently been developed for assessing
 maternal workloads as a factor in women’s empowerment and child well-being.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People

 i) Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 Development of our staff and strategic use of new appointments, bringing in staff at different
 stages of their research career, are central to our strategy of improving research quality and
 increasing research volume.

 Responsibility for staff development and quality control of research activities and outputs rests
 with the Heads of NRI’s Departments, under the overall leadership of the Institute’s Director and
 its Deputy Director for Research (Bennett). Staff development is managed through annual staff
 appraisals that provide the framework for personal development. Staff are required to nominate
 a Career Pathway for their appraisal, which also informs promotion decisions: Research,
 Enterprise or Teaching. Staff with significant responsibility for research whose work is primarily
 social-scientific in nature, submitted here in line with the University’s REF2021 Code of Practice,
 currently make up the great majority of the Livelihoods and Institutions Department (Head of
 Department Iversen) and a significant proportion of the Food and Markets Department (Head of
 Department Andy Frost). For purposes of facilitating research bidding, publication, supervision of
 PhD students, funding of activities such as conference attendance, and general exchange of
 ideas, NRI’s social scientists are constituted as a Development Studies Research Group
 (DSRG), led by Morton. NRI runs a one-on-one statistics support service to provide individual
 assistance on research design and statistical analysis.

 Since 2014 NRI has made new appointments in the social sciences at all levels from AC1 to
 AC5 (Professor). 11 staff employed under FaNSI, and six other staff employed since 2014 are
 submitted here. Relative to REF2014, headcount of staff submitted has increased from 10 to 25,
 and FTE from 8.7 to 23.3. New appointments have been made in furtherance of several aims:

 •   Increasing our capacity in quantitative economics, including agricultural, environmental/
     resource and development economics (Brück, de Pinto, Iversen, Katic, Ksoll, Shee)
 •   Adding capacity on conflict and state fragility (Brück, Okpara)
 •   Employing researchers with particularly strong interdisciplinary backgrounds spanning the
     social and natural sciences (Khatun, Santika, Po, Turner)
 •   Strengthening existing areas of expertise in food systems (Turner), gender (Picchioni, Po)
     and research into agricultural innovation (Pant).

 NRI staff are able to apply for promotion under University of Greenwich procedures. During the
 current REF period Martin, Nelson and Quan have been promoted to Professor, and Katic to
 Senior Lecturer. Morton has been a Professor throughout the REF period and Iversen (in 2018)
 and Brück and de Pinto (under FaNSI) have been appointed from outside as Professors.

 Particular attention is given at Departmental level to fostering ECR development and support in
 research bidding activities and delivery, in line with the broader Greenwich Early Career
 Researcher Initiative set up in 2010 and the Vitae Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers. NRI management has been closely involved in the establishment
 of an ECR network at the level of the Faculty of Engineering and Science
 (https://www.nri.org/research/early-career-researchers-network-ecrn/background). Of staff
 submitted here, Gatto, Lalani, Okpara, Picchioni, Po and Turner are currently ECRs. Support
 and encouragement are given to staff whose experience is primarily in consultancy or enterprise
 activities to bid for research work and publish findings in peer-reviewed journals. Lamboll and
 Onumah are appearing in this REF for the first time as a result of such support.

 All staff and PhD students are invited to regular open seminars where staff, students and
 external guests present current research. These have been organised at various times at NRI or
 Faculty level: as of academic year 20-21 a new series with greater emphasis on external


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 speakers will be organised under the Livelihoods and Institutions Department. Staff are funded
 to participate in academic conferences in UK and internationally – see Section D for details.
 Staff are entitled to study internally for a part-time PhD at no cost. Since 2014 two NRI social
 scientists (Quan and Lora Forsythe) have completed PhDs under this arrangement, with Nelson
 submitting during 2020.

 ii) Research students

 We currently have 13 PhD students identified with Development Studies, and another four using
 some social-scientific methods in interdisciplinary research. PhD studies are funded from a wide
 variety of sources: larger projects, developing-country government scholarships, self-funding
 and the University of Greenwich’s own Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarships, of which Development
 Studies students have received two since 2014. Seven of the 20 studentships funded under
 FaNSI have so far been allocated to students supervised or co-supervised by development
 studies researchers, and five social scientists recruited under FaNSI are so far serving as
 supervisors.

 Students benefit from the wider facilities and opportunities enjoyed by NRI’s 50+ PhD student
 cohort, including a flourishing NRI Postgraduate Society (NRIPS). Each research student is
 supervised by a team of three supervisors, with experience of supervising at least three students
 to completion. The administration and quality control of research degrees are overseen by the
 Faculty Research Degrees Committee. From 2018, as part of the University’s response to the
 Vitae Researcher Development Framework, PGR education at the University is organized by the
 Research and Enterprise Training Institute (RETI). RETI’s objective is to work in partnership with
 postgraduate students and staff to encourage excellence, helping researchers to develop,
 personally and professionally, and to meet their research goals, through tailored training,
 coaching and mentoring.

 NRI recruits students on a flexible basis to undertake research programmes that involve work at
 NRI for most of the research period, or are based in the student’s home country, or have an
 intermediate arrangement. Of the 17 students mentioned above, 13 are African nationals, one is
 Bangladeshi, one is British of African heritage, one American and one Australian. Eight are
 women.

 Following the COVID-19 pandemic, several students have been successfully recruited and
 registered and started their research programmes while remaining in their home countries. In
 such cases, effective communications by email and Microsoft Teams are ensured and a local
 supervisor from a partner university is also appointed. Students based at NRI are allocated a
 dedicated workspace and their own networked computer, with software purchased if required,
 and students working remotely are able to purchase software and equipment to meet their
 needs. NRI runs a one-on-one statistics support service to provide individual assistance on
 research design and statistical analysis.

 PhD students present to NRI-wide staff/student seminars and to the annual NRIPS symposia.
 Research students in social-scientific and interdisciplinary topics also participate in more
 targeted seminars that have both allowed space for presentation of research plans and findings
 to a small group, and also covered methodological issues in development studies, such as
 ethnographic and case-study approaches and systematic reviews. During academic year 2018-
 19, six students presented research plans to this seminar series. These activities have also
 enhanced the peer support students give each other, which is an invaluable part of their student
 experience. Students have been funded to attend the annual conferences of the DSA – in 2019
 one student presented in a panel session, one to the PhD Masterclass, and two others attended.
 At the 2020 DSA conference one student was a panel convenor, one presented, and three
 others attended. PhD students have been funded to participate in the International Conference
 of the African Association of Agricultural Economists, held in Abuja, Nigeria in September 2019,
 and the First African Congress on Conservation Agriculture in Lusaka, Zambia in March 2014.
 Completed PhDs in the current REF period are discussed in Section a) ii).

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 iii) Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

 The University of Greenwich is committed to promoting equality and diversity, and to providing
 an inclusive and supportive environment in which all individuals have the opportunity to
 contribute to their full potential. This is central to NRI’s commitment to excellence in all that we
 do: (a) we ensure that everyone is treated fairly and with respect; (b) we recognise that students
 and staff have different needs; (c) we ensure that no-one experiences less favourable treatment
 or discrimination because of their age; any disability they may have; their ethnicity, colour or
 national origin; their gender; their gender identity or gender reassignment; their sexual
 orientation; their marital or civil partnership status; being pregnant or having recently had a baby;
 their religion or beliefs. The university has clear EDI Policies and Strategies
 https://www.gre.ac.uk/hr/edi guiding practice across the organisation. The University has the
 following accreditations: HR Excellence in Research, Disability Confident, Stonewall Diversity
 Champion , Mentally Healthy Universities and Time to Change Pledge. EDI Training is
 mandatory for all staff and “Managing Diversity” is essential for staff with management
 responsibilities. Female staff are encouraged to take advantage of the Aurora programme. NRI
 has long had a flexible policy on home-working and distance-working, and one of the staff
 submitted here has, by longstanding arrangement, worked mainly from home in view of family
 circumstances.

 NRI has taken a range of additional measures in recruitment e.g. advertising vacancies in a wide
 range of media, and internationally to attract the best available talent; advertising vacancies and
 having longer short lists to encourage diversity, and use of remote interviewing to enable wider
 participation. Of 25 staff submitted to this UoA, seven are women, eight are or have been
 nationals of developing countries, and two are British of Asian heritage.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 As described in section 1 above, NRI received research funding for Development Studies
 totalling £11.72 million for the academic years 2013-2020 compared to £4.26 million for the
 academic years 2008-2013. Research projects have been won from a variety of research
 funders.

 Research in NRI is coordinated by the Director of Research and Enterprise (Bennett) and takes
 place within the context of the University’s Strategic Plans and under the overall leadership of
 the Deputy Vice Chancellor for Research and Enterprise. NRI’s Departments are the primary
 operational units for identifying research and consultancy funding opportunities, mentoring staff,
 maintaining professional standards, and overseeing staff development. In addition. The
 Development Studies Research Group cuts across the Departments and is the vehicle for
 allocation of QR funding to NRI’s social scientists, supporting proposal development, preparation
 of journal publications, PhD supervision and conference attendance.

 Heads of Department, the Director of Research and Enterprise, the DSRG leader and other
 senior staff provide both active intellectual support for research bidding, and quality control
 under systems validated by ISO9001:2000 to ensure quality, financial viability, and responsibility
 for delivery of outputs. For larger bids, and bids combining research and consultancy elements,
 NRI’s Commercial Director, Commercial Manager and Business Development Manager also
 provide assistance. Information is disseminated throughout the Institute via the Intranet and
 departmental meetings.

 NRI regards its international partnerships, described in D below, as a core feature of our
 intellectual infrastructure, allowing us to formulate, win and implement innovative research
 projects incorporating a wide variety of Southern research expertise, in-depth understanding of
 local contexts, and opportunities for uptake by national and local stakeholders.

 The University allocates to NRI each year significant seed funding for research activities,
 stemming from funding received in respect of RAE2014. Over the academic years 2013-2020,

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funding allocated to the Development Studies Research Group and other mainly social-scientific
 streams of work, has totalled around £560,000. NRI staff benefit from access to the Medway Drill
 Hall Library, a comprehensive university library shared with the University of Kent and
 Canterbury Christchurch University; wide access to major academic journals in electronic form;
 and also the Greenwich Academic Literature Archive (http://gala.gre.ac.uk) an open-access
 repository storing published and non-published outputs of research-active staff in the University.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 NRI social scientists have contributed to the discipline of development studies and to
 interdisciplinary collaboration with agricultural, food, veterinary and environmental sciences,
 through partnerships with a range of academic and research organisations in the UK, Europe,
 and across the world. In the UK these collaborations have included:

 •   The International Institute for Environment and Development (IIED), the Universities of
     Oxford (Environmental Change Institute and Dept. of Zoology) and Reading (School of
     Agriculture, Policy and Development), University College London (Dept. of Genetics,
     Evolution and Environment, and Centre for Biodiversity and Environment Research) and
     Imperial College London, under the ESRC-funded SENTINEL programme
 •   LSE (Dept. of International Development) and UCL (Dept. of Political Science) through the
     LSE-UCL Seminar on Land Politics and Development, now transitioning into an active DSA
     Study Group, co-convened by Quan
 •   The London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine (LSHTM) under several projects at the
     agriculture-nutrition interface
 •   UCL (Depts. of Geography and of Science, Technology, Engineering and Public Policy),
     LSHTM, the Association of Commonwealth Universities, and Vitae, as well as individual
     researchers from six other UK institutions, under the CIRCLE programme
 •   The Tyndall Centre for Climate Change under the UKRI-funded Diverseafood project
 •   IIED and the Overseas Development Institute under LEGEND
 •   Science Policy Research Unit, University of Sussex; Global Development Institute (GDI) &
     Dept. of Economics, University of Manchester; King’s College, London (Dept. of Political
     Economy).

 NRI’s ongoing partnerships with research institutions and development stakeholders in the
 global South and elsewhere in the North are central to our work. For the researchers submitted
 here, 72% of the publications on Scopus in the period 2014 to 2021 involved international
 collaboration in authorship.

 In Europe we have a close partnership with CIRAD (Centre de coopération internationale en
 recherche agronomique pour le développement) through our membership of the AGRINATURA
 consortium and our frequent collaborations on value chain analyses under the VCA4D
 programme.

 We also have close collaboration with the University of Vic, Catalonia (co-authorship by Morton
 of two highly-cited articles on livestock and climate change), with Lund University, Sweden
 (extended research visit in 2015, examination of two PhD theses, mid-term review of PhD
 studies and conference participation by Morton), with Cornell University and the International
 Food Policy Research Institute (Shee co-supervised 2 MS students from Cornell, and submitted
 articles with co-authors from both institutes), with Duke University (Iversen has co-authored two
 articles and co-edited a book on social mobility), University of Auckland and Monash University
 (Iversen is co-author of two articles on rural politicians), with Wageningen University and
 Research (collaboration through AGRINATURA, especially on EU-funded research on impact of
 food fortification), and with the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs (Bennett collaborated
 in research on the international trade in beef).

 Katic is Vice-Chair of the Steering Committee of Future Earth’s Water-Energy-Food Nexus
 Knowledge-Action Network. Brück and Iversen are Honorary Non-Resident Senior Research


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fellows with UNU-WIDER, Helsinki, and Iversen is also an Honorary Senior Research Fellow
 with the International Initiative for Impact Evaluation (3ie).

 NRI social scientists enjoy close links to several of the Centres and Programmes of the CGIAR.
 NRI is a partner in the CGIAR Fish Research Programme led by WorldFish from Penang,
 Malaysia, as a part of which Bunting is engaged in research on the economics of fish in food
 systems in the African Great Lakes and Lalani is supervising a PhD student. Naziri is currently
 on secondment to the office of CIP (the International Potato Centre) in Hanoi, Vietnam, and
 engaged in multiple research activities there. NRI social scientists have participated at a senior
 level in five independent evaluations of various of the Research Programmes of the CGIAR.
 Shee, Katic and de Pinto worked within the CGIAR system immediately before joining NRI.
 We have a wide network of active partnerships with universities and research institutions in
 developing countries. This has been evident in the preparation of the proposal for FaNSI under
 which eight African Universities which have World Bank-funded African Centre of Excellence
 (ACE) status are included as partners and have pledged use of ACE funds for collaborative
 activities. Of these, Haramaya University Ethiopia and Bayero University Nigeria are currently
 providing co-supervision for FaNSI-funded research students in development studies.
 Other developing country partners include:

 •   Université d’Abomey-Calvi, and Université de Parakou, Benin
 •   Ethiopian Development Research Centre
 •   University of Ghana and Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Ghana
 •   Centre for Economic and Social Studies, Gujarat Institute for Development Studies, Indian
     Statistical Institute, Institute of Economic Growth, India
 •   Equity Bank Kenya Ltd.
 •   Lilongwe University of Agriculture and National Resources and Department of Agricultural
     Research Services, Malawi
 •   LI-BIRD, a leading Nepalese NGO
 •   Instituto de Investigacion Nutricional, Pontificia Universidad Católica del Peru and Instituto
     de Investigaciones de la Amazonia Peruana, Peru
 •   Makerere University, Uganda (joint holders with NRI of a GCRF networking grant, and
     providing external supervision of a PhD student) and National Crops Resources Research
     Institute, Uganda
 •   Hanoi University of Science and Technology, Vietnam
 •   Copperbelt University, Zambia.

 We have particularly close relationships with a number of African regional bodies: the Forum for
 Agricultural Research in Africa, the African Forum for Agricultural Advisory Services, and the
 Regional Universities Forum for Capacity Building in Agriculture, based in Uganda.

 Iversen is Co-Editor of the Journal of South Asian Development and on the Editorial Board of
 Journal of Development Studies.
 Shee is Associate Editor of Agricultural Finance Review.

 A number of staff are members of the Editorial Boards of other journals, including:
 Bennett – Food Chain and Enterprise Development and Micro Finance
 Khatun – Frontiers in Sustainable Food Systems
 Martin – Experimental Agriculture
 Morton – Tropical Animal Health and Production.

 Staff including Morton and Pant regularly review research proposals for ESRC and NERC, and
 Morton served until 2015 as a member of the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission’s Panel
 of Academic Advisers. Nelson served on the Council of the Development Studies Association
 until 2015, and Quan between 2017 and 2020.




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 NRI social scientists continue to participate in high-level academic conferences, including
 Adaptation Futures 2014 (Fortaleza, Brazil), the Conference on Transformative Global Climate
 Governance (Berlin 2016), the Annual Conference of the International Sustainable Development
 Research Society (Portugal 2016 and Italy 2018), the International Conference of Agricultural
 Economists (Vancouver 2018), the Agricultural and Applied Economics Association Conference
 (Washington DC 2018 and Atlanta 2019), Agricultural Economics Society Annual Conference
 (UK 2019), the Annual Conference of the European Association of Environmental and Resource
 Economists (Manchester, 2019), the Fourth International Conference on Global Food Security
 (virtual, 2020) with regular participation in Annual Conferences of the Development Studies
 Association.

 As discussed in A iii above, impact on broader society, especially in developing countries, is a
 core part of our mission, which we seek to achieve through research and its dissemination,
 advisory and consultancy work. Impact Case-Studies submitted under this UoA detail the way
 NRI research has had an impact on the design, implementation and monitoring of voluntary
 standards and responsible business initiatives internationally, on the formulation and uptake of
 an indicator to measure global progress in securing land rights within the SDG framework, and
 how a model of agricultural risk management through empowering farmers’ organisations has
 had widespread impact in Africa. Additional examples (also discussed above) include:

 •   Impact on DFID policy on land tenure and on the design of internationally-recognised
     indicators on land policy through the LEGEND programme and associated consultancies
 •   Impact on the policy and programming of EU delegations towards specific agricultural value
     chains through the VCA4D programme
 •   Impact on livelihoods through linking farmers and small-scale processors to cassava product
     value chains through C:AVA 2.




                                                                                            Page 16
