Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Cambridge

 Unit of Assessment: 27: English Language and Literature


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Faculty of English at Cambridge is one of the largest concentrations of researchers in the
 subject in the UK, supporting research into literature in English from the Middle Ages to the
 present. An international Strategic Research Review in 2015 observed that ‘the long and
 distinguished traditions… remain strong’, and that ‘the broad historical range… would always be
 a great source of strength’. In the REF 2021 period, however, the Faculty has increasingly focused
 on new, outward-looking developments and the diversification of the discipline. We have drawn
 on the natural interdisciplinarity of a collegiate university that fosters innovation alongside rigorous
 training in methods and approaches, and which provides the platform for the Faculty’s long-
 standing and more recent contributions to many fields. These include intellectual history, literary
 and cultural theory, language studies, rhetoric, poetics, music, landscape arts, visual culture,
 aesthetics, histories of the book and material culture, social and political history, theories of the
 concept, performance studies and digital humanities.

 Research structure

 Research activity in the Unit of Assessment (UoA) is centred on the Faculty of English, which is
 part of the School of Arts and Humanities (SAH). All researchers are members of the Faculty and
 have access to its facilities, funding, and other support. The Research Policy and Support
 Committee (RPSC) has responsibility for the development and implementation of research
 strategy, for the support of individuals and groups in undertaking research, and for ensuring that
 measures related to Equality and Diversity are put into practice. The Chair of the RPSC sits on
 the Faculty Board, the executive committee of the Faculty. This ensures that research
 considerations are strongly represented, and in turn ensures that the RPSC is informed by the
 wide range of perspectives available on the Faculty Board (which includes a postgraduate student
 representative).
          The decentralised system of the university and the inclusive nature of the Faculty bring
 many benefits. The colleges enable research interactions between experts in different fields, and
 they provide support of various kinds (such as libraries, research funding, conference venues).
 They also fund Junior Research Fellows (JRFs) who are a crucial part of our research profile. Our
 research is given greater structure and focus by groups and clusters of different kinds. Two in
 particular are Centres providing strategic infrastructure and impetus. The Centre for Material Texts
 celebrated its tenth anniversary in 2019 and energises the study of editing, book history, and many
 other aspects of literary materiality across the humanities in Cambridge and internationally. The
 Judith E. Wilson Centre for Poetics was constituted in 2019 to foster the work in poetry and
 performance that has been a feature of the Faculty’s research and impact for generations. A set
 of Research Groups (American, Contemporaries, Eighteenth Century and Romantic, Medieval,
 Nineteenth Century, Postcolonial, Renaissance) act as hubs for information-sharing within and
 beyond the Faculty. Colleagues also make substantial contributions to research institutions
 outside the Faculty, such as the Centre for African Studies (Warnes), the Centre for Greek Studies
 (Wallace), the Centre for Visual Culture (Berenbeim), the Cambridge Group for Irish Studies
 (Kerrigan, Wills), and the Cambridge Language Sciences Interdisciplinary Research Centre
 (Wright, as co-Director).

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         In recognition of the complexity of research interactions in such a large group, we
 developed a digital ‘Research Map’, which represents colleagues’ interests and expertise in a
 dynamic visualisation. It is designed to allow RPSC to recognise and enhance potential clusters
 and enable individuals, especially new arrivals, to find possible collaborators outside their
 immediate fields. It has proved useful, for example, in the assessment of research strengths and
 needs when considering replacement appointments. The next step has been for the information
 contained in the Research Map to become outward-facing, including an efficient and nuanced
 People Finder, giving prospective research students and others better access to information about
 individuals and networks.

 Research goals

 The emphasis in the REF 2014 Environment statement was on achieving critical mass in the key
 fields traditionally represented by the Faculty: period coverage from the Middle Ages to the present
 day, American literature, post-colonial literatures, and drama. In 2014 the stated ‘aims above all’
 were:

          1) to maintain its position as a centre for research in English studies across the
          full range of the discipline;
          2) to sustain its commitment to research in fields by which English studies have
          traditionally been defined;
          3) to develop its research capability in fields more recently emerged and still in
          formation;
          4) to consolidate the Faculty’s Research Groups;
          5) to integrate further into its research policy and practice the College Teaching
          Officers (CTOs), JRFs and other postdoctoral appointees;
          6) creatively to pursue opportunities for Open Access publishing;
          7) to extend the Faculty’s collaborative relationships;
          8) to foster the development of high-quality applications for external funding;
          9) to use demonstrable excellence in research as well as teaching as the basis
          for fund-raising.

 We have addressed these aims; some are by nature ongoing. Progress in relation to Open
 Research and external funding is described later in this document. Our increased focus on impact
 has led to considerable advances in the external links envisaged by aim 7). The intent to create a
 research culture incorporating all categories of staff, aim 5), has been met by a series of inclusive
 policies and demonstrated by specific instances of research collaboration, as will be evident at
 numerous points in this document. The final aim, related to fundraising, has not yet resulted in a
 new funded post, but the Faculty’s collaboration with CUDAR (the University’s development office)
 continues, with current priorities relating especially to the Centre for Digital Humanities and the
 SAH’s ‘Global Humanities’ strategic initiative.
         Over the REF 2021 period we have shifted our emphasis in research policy concerning the
 interaction of goals 2) and 3) above, referring to the ‘traditional’ and the ‘recently emerged’ fields
 of research. Sustained commitment to the Faculty’s strengths/growth was consolidated when the
 University awarded the Faculty nine University Teaching Officer (UTO) posts, with the first
 appointments starting in September 2012 and continuing into the REF 2021 period. However, the
 2015 Strategic Research Review identified further priorities that have shaped the approach since.
 These included a number of ways of contributing energetically to the developing discipline
 nationally and internationally:


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


        1) An emphasis on interdisciplinary work done by individuals and as part of larger
        collaborative projects funded externally;
        2) The recognition that the period-based research group structure did not wholly
        capture the state or potential of our research activity, which involves many cross-
        cutting connections inside and outside Cambridge;
        3) The founding of the Centre for Poetics;
        4) An encouragement to use new and replacement appointments to aim at growing
        research fields.

 We have embraced the recommendations of the 2015 Review. The founding of the Centre for
 Poetics fulfils 3); the recruitment strategy described below fulfils 4). RPSC has supported research
 beyond traditional field-boundaries, in keeping with 1) and 2), with a multi-faceted approach. For
 example, the Faculty has notable strengths in the environmental humanities and in creative work,
 and colleagues have done pioneering work at the interfaces of these two fields (Gorji, Macfarlane,
 Milne, Svendsen). This work has been fostered by various means, several of them resourced from
 the Faculty’s Judith E. Wilson Fund: there has been support for individual projects, funding for
 impact and collaborations, continued investment in the Centre for John Clare Studies and the new
 Centre for Poetics. There are also clusters of interests around the intellectual history of human
 rights, in the digital humanities, and exciting work is happening at the interfaces of these fields (De
 Bolla, Jones, Schramm). These activities have also been fostered by a diverse approach, here
 focused more on externally-funded research, with the Concept Lab (funded by Mellon) to the fore.
 An increasing number of colleagues, ECRs, and PhD students are working on post-colonial
 literature, the history of racism and migration (including Gopal, Meer, Morgenstern, Warnes, Wills),
 and in this case the method of furthering and developing work with a global perspective has been
 to make an appointment in World Literature (Hawas, taking up her post in October 2020).
          Over the next five years we aim to continue to find varied ways of enhancing our
 contribution to the development of English studies nationally and internationally. The key strategic
 aims, developed through periodic Faculty Awaydays, a dedicated Strategy Open Meeting in 2019
 and finalised at RPSC and Faculty Board are:

        1) To encourage research that points towards future directions in the discipline,
        devoting resources to new initiatives in ways appropriate to the projects
        themselves;
        2) To develop all colleagues’ research careers in the best ways possible, continuing
        to refine staff review, development, and mentoring procedures;
        3) To follow through and expand on recent progress in incorporating Equality and
        Diversity considerations in our research planning;
        4) To enhance grant capture: Cambridge is fortunate to have the resources to
        support individual research well, but the advantages of outward-looking
        collaborative projects are manifest;
        5) To develop the Centre for Poetics, and to use the Judith E. Wilson Fund to
        encourage a wider range of practice-led research with a new, dedicated fund;
        6) To consolidate and expand on existing partnerships with institutions in
        Cambridge, such as the Botanic Garden, the Fitzwilliam Museum, libraries, and
        beyond;
        7) To work closely with the new Cambridge Digital Humanities centre, drawing on
        well-established interests in DH, and fostering those among PhD students and
        ECRs;


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        8) To introduce Faculty Research Themes, concentrations of activity drawing in a
        range of researchers around emerging interests, eligible for ringfenced funding;
        these will last for a maximum of two years, starting in 2021;
        9) To set up a Working Group into environmentally-friendly forms of conferencing
        and academic communication, and to act on its findings, becoming a centre of
        excellence and sharing good practice.

 Progress in these aims will be monitored by RPSC which then reports to Faculty Board.

 Enabling impact

 A very significant change since 2014 has been the greater prominence of impact in the Faculty’s
 work. Directly after REF 2014 we created the new role of Impact Officer (first Dillon, then Da Rold).
 This role has led to cultural change of two kinds. First, those already engaged in impact work, and
 heading towards potential Impact Case Studies, were supported in their efforts throughout the
 whole period; second, anyone considering enhancing the impact of their work had a contact with
 whom to discuss their options. In the case of the ‘A Good Death’ case study (Davies) this involved
 collaboration from an early point, when activities were just beginning to take place. In the case of
 the partnership with the BBC and First Story on the Short Story and Young Critic Awards, the
 Impact Officer helped build a team of colleagues to make the most of that project’s potential. It is
 supported by a partnership including the Institute of Continuing Education, the University Library,
 and the SAH, as well as the Faculty of English.
         The Impact Officer within the Faculty has been supported by the SAH, which has an Impact
 Facilitator alongside its other Research Facilitation provision. This new appointment has proved
 vital, not least in providing advice, feedback, and advocacy, in relation to applications to the
 University’s Arts and Humanities Impact Fund (AHIF), a new source of support in designing and
 executing impact activities. Sometimes this has involved considerable help in redrafting
 applications to enhance their chances of success, with good results: colleagues have been
 awarded £41,789 to date. The development of Svendsen’s performance project ‘We Know Not
 What We May Be’, which offered new ways of considering climate crisis, was substantially
 supported by the AHIF. The School Impact Facilitator has also organised events and surgeries
 designed to foster new as well as established pathways to impact. We also designated a
 ‘Research Support Fund’ from our own resources, to be administered by RPSC, which supported
 impact alongside other research-related expenses (such as copyright permissions, payment for
 images, etc.).
         The Case Studies selected for REF 2021 demonstrate wide-ranging benefits with particular
 concentrations in policy, education, public discourse, and the creative economy. They come from
 colleagues at different career stages, and they include CTOs as well as UTOs. They were selected
 from a larger group of cases that includes yet further diversity among the PIs: innovative
 performance-based work with young people by a JRF (Seita, now at Boston University), a well-
 established collaboration with the Wordsworth Trust by a relatively recently appointed UTO
 (Abbott), and a long-standing project bringing research to audiences of schoolteachers, with a
 track record of inspiring teachers and enhancing their professional practice, involving numerous
 colleagues in various categories (e.g. Alexander, Lees-Jeffries, Lyne, Parker, Russell, Wilson).
 Mukherji’s ERC-funded ‘Crossroads of Knowledge’ project culminated in ‘Migrant Knowledge’, an
 event leading to a range of changes of practice and attitude in artists, activists, and academics.
 There were of course many significant but smaller-scale interactions between researchers and
 other institutions such as museums (including Berenbeim, Gonda, Lees-Jeffries). In the REF 2021
 period we have emphasised impact linked to funded research projects, collaborative impact


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 projects, and plans from ECRs. This, alongside the support and funding structures outlined above,
 should ensure the sustainability of impact’s place in our work into the future.

 Interdisciplinary research

 A great deal of the research undertaken in the Faculty is interdisciplinary. Colleagues have made
 significant recent contributions to fields such as literature and law, cognitive literary studies, digital
 humanities, intellectual history, medical humanities and the history of music. This interdisciplinarity
 arises across the Research Groups and Centres, but we benefit particularly from a close
 association with the Centre for Research in the Arts, Social Sciences, and Humanities (CRASSH),
 and provide its current Chair (Connor) and recent Deputy (Schramm, 2017-20).
          CRASSH is one of the leading interdisciplinary research centres in the UK, with many
 international links. It offers opportunities for engagement with interdisciplinary work to colleagues
 at all career stages: from PhD students as members of seminars, to Professors as PIs of grants.
 Interactions between the Faculty and CRASSH range from research networks, such as the
 ‘Theologies of Reading’ Group (co-organised by JRF Kilbride), to much larger projects such as
 Mukherji’s ‘Crossroads of Knowledge’, for which CRASSH was the co-host, offering support during
 the application process and subsequent administrative infrastructure. It also hosted De Bolla’s
 ‘Concept Lab’, and Knight’s ERC-funded and now Leverhulme-funded Fellowships. Among the
 externally-funded schemes run by CRASSH is the Crausaz-Wordsworth Interdisciplinary
 Fellowship, which is for ‘scholars developing interests in philosophical study from an
 interdisciplinary perspective’; colleagues have been outstandingly successful in winning this
 Fellowship (five in the first ten years: Haggarty, Hurley, Joy, Schramm, Wilson).

 Open research, research ethics and integrity

 RPSC takes responsibility for compliance with, and implementation of, the University’s policies
 relating to research ethics and integrity. Its policy is to refer substantial applications to the School-
 level Ethics Committee In recent years we have had more cause to call on their expertise, owing
 to a growing number and range of impact activities. The Committee’s advice in handling the ethical
 challenges posed by working with potentially vulnerable young people (Seita), the prison
 community (McDowell, Wilson, and others), and the general public (Davies, for the ‘A Good Death’
 Impact Case Study), has helped shape the development of particular events and also contributed
 to growing experience within the Faculty.
         In relation to Open Research colleagues have been notably pro-active in exploring
 possibilities and promoting innovative practice. The stated aim of the REF 2014 Environment
 Statement was to proceed ‘creatively rather than simply as a matter of obligation’; this commitment
 to engage positively has been fulfilled. Individuals have been involved in developing the policies
 on Open Research matters by which the Faculty is guided: Da Rold served on the Open Research
 Working Group that wrote the University guidelines, and also sat on the Review Panel for the
 Office of Scholarly Communication. While Director of the AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership
 (DTP), Dillon was involved with University-level discussions about open access e-theses. In
 addition to numerous colleagues engaging with the topic as journal editors, Boddy was involved
 in extensive discussions in her capacity as a member of the Academic Publishing Committee at
 Cambridge University Press. Connor is on the Editorial Board of the Open Humanities Press, and
 co-edits the Technographies book series.
         Our commitment to a more general openness in research is explored further in Section 4,
 but one particular strand to note here is the use of social media. This includes colleagues
 disseminating their research to wider audiences in blogs and personal web-pages (Connor, Dillon,

                                                                                                    Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Lees-Jeffries, Lyne, and Blackbox Manifold, an online poetry journal co-edited by Houen).It also
 includes the exemplary case of Scott-Warren’s long-distance collaboration with Professor Claire
 Bourne (Penn State) over the identification of Milton’s copy of the Shakespeare First Folio. Social
 media here provided a form for sharing exciting findings, and also enabled them to present
 conclusions for scrutiny and share credit appropriately throughout.




                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2. People

 The University’s inclusive policy means that in REF 2021 our Category A staff list properly reflects
 the wide-ranging and diverse energies of English research in Cambridge. 48 FTE are UTOs,
 employed directly by the University. 33 FTE are CTOs, whose primary teaching responsibility is
 to colleges, and who sometimes have very large responsibilities in the wider University, as Senior
 Tutors, Admissions Tutors, Librarians, and Art Curators. 23 FTE are ECRs and others in research
 posts, including college JRFs and Leverhulme ECRs.

 Staff Development

 The staff development strategy of the Faculty has progressed considerably since REF 2014. The
 last Environment statement described a tradition, and a policy, of appointing good people and
 letting them do their work. In recent years we have aimed to preserve the best elements of this
 non-interventionist culture, while also making the most of the evident benefits of appraisal and
 mentoring throughout colleagues’ careers. We focus on two main structures: firstly, biennial review
 meeting for all UTOs with the Faculty Chair and the incoming Faculty Chair, aimed at a strategic
 overview of plans and priorities; secondly, a ‘peer-to-peer’ structure, available to all members, in
 which colleagues are encouraged to request, and to offer, the most helpful mentoring for the
 individual. This has ranged from colleagues sharing drafts to a more systematic overview of a
 colleague’s research career, past and future. Information about peer-to-peer mentoring is
 gathered annually, with the biennial Staff Reviews collating an overview of good practice and
 monitoring the effectiveness of peer-to-peer meetings.
          CTO appointments are made by colleges with multiple priorities in mind: research
 excellence is invariably a key criterion, and typically there is a Faculty-appointed member or
 advisor on appointments committees whose main role is to attend to the quality of the research.
 JRF appointments are handled by separate college committees dealing with very large fields
 (several hundred applicants in a wide range of subjects) and choosing according to individual
 excellence.
          In the recruitment of UTOs there has been a clear move towards strategic research
 planning. This process is overseen by Planning and Resources Committee (PRC), on which the
 Chair of RPSC sits. This group considers the overall staff profile and future developments,
 including forthcoming retirements. Of the 18 appointments made within this REF period, in terms
 of research fields only five have been like-for-like replacements for colleagues retiring or leaving
 (which previously had been the routine practice). Three of the most recent (Barr, Berenbeim,
 Hawas) have been targeted at research fields highlighted by the Strategic Research Review and
 different from those of the colleagues whose posts were being filled (Gender and Sexualities post-
 1700; Literature and Visual Culture; World and Global Literatures).We have also recently
 welcomed the first Cambridge Professor of Digital Humanities (Bassett).
          In addition, although the underlying rationale of the nine new posts awarded to the Faculty
 was to secure critical mass in established research areas, a number of these were also aimed at
 fields identified as emerging strategic priorities (Da Rold and Lees-Jeffries, in Literature and the
 Material Text; Demetriou, Dillon, and Svendsen in Drama, Film and Performance). These
 appointments have greatly strengthened our profile in these fields. It is worth noting that Svendsen
 was originally appointed as a Research Fellow in Drama and Performance (2009-12) in order to
 enhance the creative and impact-oriented activities that are part of our long-term strategic aims.
 Her permanent position is thus the fulfilment of a long-term Faculty aspiration.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         UTOs are normally appointed with a five year probationary period and benefit from a
 reduced load in their first three years (20% overall stint reduction in the first year; 14% in the
 second and third). Progress is monitored through a formal University probationary system, and
 support is provided by a Faculty mentor and annual meetings with the Chair of Faculty to monitor
 progress in all respects, with research a key component. There are no temporary posts with
 responsibility for research at the UTO level. Where there are temporary appointments (such as
 Teaching Associates replacing colleagues undertaking funded research), our practice is to make
 these last twelve months (or longer; the point being to avoid appointments that leave an un-
 salaried summer). JRFs are appointed for three or four years; other post-doctoral researchers are
 appointed for periods that depend on research grant funding or early career fellowships. CTOs
 have a variety of contracts: the majority of those appearing on the Staff List are appointed
 permanently, but some are earlier career positions with a fixed term (typically five years).
         The demographic profile of the Faculty overall is, in comparison to many, weighted at the
 junior end, owing to the early-career nature of JRF and some CTO posts. This increases the need
 for thoughtful career mentoring, for which the colleges and Faculty share responsibility. The
 demographic profile among UTOs has also shown a bias towards the junior, given the number of
 new appointments. These appointments have enabled us to address historic inequalities in the
 gender profile of the Faculty: of 18 appointments since September 2013, 13 are women, including
 three senior positions: the Professor of Medieval and Renaissance Literature (Zeeman, 2016), the
 King Edward VII Professor (Wills, 2018), and the Professor of Digital Humanities (Bassett, 2019).

 Early career researchers

 The Faculty makes all provision fully available to ECRs – funding, mentoring, seminars, and
 research groups. The Faculty Research Seminar, a forum in which staff share their ongoing
 research with each other, was introduced in 2016 as a means of cross-fertilising research across
 our many clusters and institutional affiliations. Among the speakers at this seminar CTOs, JRFs,
 and other Post-Doctoral Researchers (PDRs) have all been represented. ECRs have contributed
 substantially to initiatives such as the Grants Incubator (see below). The colleges at which JRFs
 and most PDRs are based have their own means of mentoring and supporting ECRs (and CTOs
 too), and they also have their own streams of funding for travel and other research costs. ECRs
 benefit from the colleges as interdisciplinary environments, offering a variety of models of research
 practice and career development.
         CRASSH recognises the difficulty of sustaining research in the early years of a teaching
 post, when colleagues face many other demands; it has a scheme providing an additional term of
 leave for CTOs and early-career colleagues. Faculty colleagues have proved successful in
 obtaining these fellowships (Abbott, Hrebeniak, Haggarty, McDowell, Morgenstern, Svendsen).
 The Isaac Newton Trust has its own CTO Research Leave programme; Chalmers is one recent
 beneficiary. CRASSH provides a formal and informal hub for ECRs in the humanities: the regular
 work-in-progress seminar provides a valuable forum. One former English Faculty PDR (Holmes,
 working on an ERC project) devised a forum for post-docs based at CRASSH, providing a subject-
 specific complement to the University’s broader support. This has been greatly enhanced by the
 2013 founding and subsequent development of the Office of Postdoctoral Affairs (OPdA), now
 Postdoc Academy, a central hub for support, development, advocacy, and practicalities such as
 housing. The last has been a priority in the University’s strategy, with the North-West Cambridge
 / Eddington project aimed at providing affordable housing for junior academics. Another
 noteworthy innovation has been the creation of the Career Management Tool for Research Staff,
 with which, it is hoped, ECRs will be able to make the most of their time and to prepare for



                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 challenges ahead. The Postdoc Academy’s aims and activities are aligned with the Concordat to
 Support the Career Development of Researchers.

 Enabling and supporting research

 UTOs are entitled to one term in seven as sabbatical research leave. In recent years we have
 begun to exercise flexibility in awarding this leave, allowing colleagues (for example) to mortgage
 terms so that they can take sabbatical earlier, in order (for example) to take up a fellowship and
 thereby enable the completion of a major project. To claim sabbatical leave, staff must have their
 programme of research approved by the Faculty Board and must also report back afterwards.
 CTOs on the staff list have a more variable entitlement, depending upon their college employer
 and their specific responsibilities, but almost all are entitled to sabbatical leave.
          Through the Faculty’s Research Support Fund, and University initiatives such as
 Cambridge Enterprise, there is a good framework for exchanges between academia and other
 sectors in society. The role of Dillon in the Centre for the Future of Intelligence (CFI), has resulted
 in numerous exchanges with global business; her project using storytelling methods to understand
 public perception of autonomous flight is funded by Boeing ($120K). A very different kind of
 exchange has been enabled by work with prisons, especially the ‘Learning Together’ project
 organised with HMPs Grendon and Whitemoor (Ashmore, Ettenhuber, Wilson, and McDowell, the
 last of these now at Warwick; her research on ‘Reading Together’ intersected especially strongly
 with the project). The Cambridge Centre for Science and Policy brings policy professionals,
 especially civil servants, into contact with researchers in all fields; nine colleagues have had 24
 meetings with policy-makers and experts, and in the case of Dillon in particular this has resulted
 in an ongoing collaboration.
          The Faculty manages the allocation of administrative roles carefully, partly through a well-
 established numerical ‘stint’ workload model for UTOs which evolves constantly. Recently it was
 updated to include the Impact Officer, the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Officer, and the
 Athena SWAN Chair. Its fundamental purpose is to manage workloads (especially in relation to
 administration) and thereby to ensure that all have time for research. A number of key research-
 related roles are significantly weighted: REF Chair and REF Impact Officer are both valued among
 the Faculty’s key administrative posts; acting as the PI on an Impact Case Study is equivalent to
 chairing a major committee. The PRC oversees the stint, and has begun to use a bespoke
 software package to create reports on the overall distributions. This enables efficient assessment
 of the short- and medium- term patterns of contribution, individually and across groups (gender,
 age, seniority), thereby creating a management environment which is sensitive to the full range of
 obligations.
          The University’s internal promotion scheme underlines the importance of international
 quality research and impact at all levels of promotion. At the Readership and Professorship level
 the emphasis is strongly on substantial achievement in research; at Senior Lectureship level
 research and impact are among a variety of criteria that demonstrate a developing academic
 career. We have been notably successful in promotions: since REF 2014 there have been 19 UTO
 promotions (three to Professor, ten to Reader, six to Senior Lecturer; thirteen women and six
 men). Fostering further senior promotions for the next REF cycle is a high priority.

 Research students

 In the REF period 131 PhD degrees have been awarded. The limit on the number of doctoral
 research students is of course related to funding. We benefit from local factors that enable us to
 sustain a strong community of doctoral research students. The development of the Cambridge-

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Oxford-Open AHRC DTP has secured one stream of funding, and opportunities to create
 collaborative DTP awards (supervised so far by Gopal, Scott-Warren). At University level the
 Gates Trust provides funding for 100 overseas students, while the recent Harding donation will
 fund 100 home students. The Faculty has also devoted considerable funds from within its own
 resources (accumulated trust fund reserves and annual income) to support two PhD studentships
 annually; amid numerous challenges, support for postgraduate research is one of our very highest
 priorities. Other sources of funding include the Cambridge colleges, several of which provide
 studentships, and the Cambridge Trusts, which provide funding for overseas PhD students.
 College funding and Trusts funding is competitive across subjects: our students’ success in
 gaining these awards shows the strength of the applicant pool and the recruitment process. As a
 result, 67.7% of our new students in this REF period have been fully-funded and 4.4% part-funded;
 the remainder includes overseas students funded under schemes organised in their home
 countries as well as self-funding students. Most colleges also have hardship funds, which can
 contribute to an extra term’s support at the end of a PhD, to ensure timely completion.
          Admissions procedures focus on the ability of the Faculty to provide appropriate expert
 guidance for each PhD project (a supervisor, an advisor, and a back-up supervisor, for all), as well
 as the academic strengths of the applicant. A review of admissions procedures led to the
 consolidation in 2019 of multiple subcommittees into one Postgraduate Admissions Committee,
 which will enable consistency and informed comparisons across fields. We have also adopted an
 improved online system to handle admissions and funding decisions. These reforms run in parallel
 with a new structure for MPhil courses in the Faculty (scheduled for 2021, but postponed because
 of the COVID pandemic): we will replace five period- or topic-based MPhils with one umbrella
 course that allows the kind of innovative interactions promoted consistently across the Faculty’s
 work, in line with the recommendations of the Strategic Research Review.
          The review of postgraduate administration has also led to the consolidation of support
 activities (reviewing progress; addressing areas of concern and individuals with problems) into a
 Postgraduate Oversight and Welfare Committee. Students also benefit from support of various
 kinds (pastoral, financial) offered by colleges. Although college systems differ somewhat,
 invariably students can turn to a college Graduate Tutor, who is kept informed of termly progress
 via the graduate reporting system. In 2017-18 the Director of Graduate Studies (Meer) undertook
 a review of the training programme, instituting a structured set of Faculty-based sessions designed
 to equip students for progression in their degrees and subsequent careers. These were developed
 in consultation with current students as a more subject-specific complement to other training and
 information programmes: (1) those offered by the AHRC-DTP; (2) those run by colleges (such as
 the Gateway programme, focusing on study skills and handling the academic environment, at
 Murray Edwards); (3) bespoke courses organised by the Faculty Library; (4) the University’s
 training provision (centred on the Researcher Development Programme, also open to all ECRs).
          Two further initiatives aimed at fostering an intellectually dynamic PhD community, steered
 by students with support from colleagues, stand out. One is the Flash Forum, a termly event at
 which PhD students, and researchers at all levels, including some from outside the Faculty
 (especially librarians), meet to give five-minute presentations on issues in their work. An online
 version has been ongoing during the pandemic isolation period. The other is the Sweet Set-Up, a
 showcase (with a sequel) of ways that research in English could benefit from software and social
 media, initiated by a PhD student with professional experience in IT. These events are innovative
 evolutions of the Graduate Research Forum, which has for the last fifteen years given PhD
 students orientation in practical matters such as publication. PhD students have also been key
 participants questioning the practice of the discipline in both teaching and research. The
 Cambridge ‘Decolonise’ initiative started in English, and was fuelled by the combined energies of
 students and members of staff. It has spread widely, and conversations about its consequences
 for research have involved participants at all levels of seniority.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          In addition to the many excellent publications arising from their doctoral research, PhD
 students, supported by funding from the Faculty, have organised successful conferences and
 smaller events, alongside the regular pre-1750 and post-1750 graduate conferences organised by
 MPhil students. There has been a series of outstanding events steered by individuals or groups
 of PhD students, such as Art / Money / Crisis, Books in the Making, The Children’s Book as a
 Material Object, The Life of Art in Early Modern Europe, and Philosophy, Poetry and Utopian
 Poetics. As a PhD student Nickerson (now JRF) convened the first international conference on
 Walter de la Mare, and curated an exhibition of phonographic materials in the University Library;
 an interdisciplinary collection of essays is now under contract. PhD students in Postcolonial
 literature have been notably active, taking the lead in running their graduate seminar. One group
 brought the Race, Poetry and Poetics in the UK conference to Cambridge in October 2018, and
 organised a Climate Fictions / Indigenous Studies conference in January 2020.
          These events and achievements are backed up by further material support. In addition to
 the library workspace offered in the University, the Faculty, and in all colleges, the Faculty building
 has a dedicated and well-used Graduate Common Room (for group discussion) and Study Room
 (for solo work in a congenial environment). PhD students benefit from funding aimed at particular
 pressure points in their careers, in particular the Completion Awards which aim at the period just
 after external funding. The Judith E. Wilson Fund and the Research Student Development Fund
 have supported students involved in creative and other activities relating to poetry and drama (in
 the case of the former), and in other innovative schemes designed to enhance the experience of
 PhD students. The latter included a Coding Workshop (organised by Jones) aimed at increasing
 Digital Humanities literacy and agency (enabling them to build their own projects).
          Our contribution to the discipline nationally and internationally is evident in the progression
 of PhD students, and ECRs too, into post-doctoral and permanent posts. In our survey at the
 beginning of 2020, 60 PhD students who had completed during this REF period had already gone
 on to post-doctoral and other academic positions, while another 22 were working in related fields
 as poets, writers, research administrators, and archivists; some of course were in the early stages
 of looking for jobs. Furthermore, a gratifyingly high proportion (46 of 52) of those who had
 completed JRFs and PDR posts were in teaching or research roles in HE, with the others taking
 career breaks, working in different sectors, or looking for a new position having just completed
 one.

 Equality and diversity

 The process of compiling our successful application for the Athena SWAN Bronze award led to a
 series of initiatives and a considerable culture change. As the application says, ‘the energy that
 has fuelled our Self-Assessment Team, and parallel initiatives such as “Decolonise”, shows that
 Athena SWAN is timely, coinciding with a groundswell of desire for change from right across the
 Faculty of English. Inspired by a decisive commitment from academic and administrative leaders
 to improve the experiences and careers of all female Faculty members, we have begun the
 exciting work of preparing this application and all that follows from it’. The award letter praised ‘a
 strong submission with a comprehensive and ambitious action plan’.
         English is one of the first two Faculties in the SAH to apply and succeed, and the
 Committee continues to meet in order to monitor progress towards the numerous targets (some
 directly and many indirectly related to research). The primary focus of Athena SWAN is on equality
 between women and men, but the process of application, and the focus of the surveys and policies
 associated with it, have been on equality across the board, taking into account ethnicity and
 recognising that the question of gender and sexuality goes beyond the men-women binary. This
 work is done in collaboration with other Faculty Officers, including the Chair of RPSC and the EDI


                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Officer (Da Costa). The latter is a new post since 2018, with a seat on Faculty Board and a budget
 agreed with PRC.
          The application noted the ways in which research leave arrangements and career
 pathways intersect with questions of Equality and Diversity. It identified causes for concern in the
 ‘pipeline’ starting with excellent women undergraduates and ending with women professors. New
 procedures (including the changes to postgraduate admissions and staff review and mentoring)
 have been devised to address this, and annual monitoring of progress is ongoing. The Athena
 SWAN process also led to clarifications of practical policies relating to funds for travel and other
 research expenses. The standard maximum for Faculty Research expenses applications has
 recently been increased to £1000 per person per year, but further funds have been made available
 from 2018 onwards where there are caring responsibilities, aimed at accompanying children,
 partners or others.
          In addition to measures under its own control, the Faculty benefits from the wider
 University’s EDI provisions. All rooms on all floors of the Faculty building are wheelchair-
 accessible, its location on the Sidgwick Site means other facilities (prayer room; breastfeeding
 room) are close by. The University has a range of schemes aimed at improving Equality and
 Diversity. The BAME Staff Network and Race Equality at Cambridge initiatives contributed to the
 Bronze Award won by Cambridge in 2019 under Advance HE’s Race Equality Charter. Other Staff
 Networks (Women, and LGBT) also promote the development of communities and the sharing of
 information. In some key initiatives, Faculty colleagues have taken the lead: in her role on the
 University’s Harassment Avoidance Working Group, Abbott helped develop ‘Breaking the Silence’,
 a major campaign against sexual misconduct.
          The Faculty has been an enthusiastic exponent of the University’s Returning Carers
 Scheme, which enables those returning from leave (such as parental leave) to bid not just for a
 reduced teaching load, but also for other kinds of help (such as reprographics costs from distant
 libraries) towards an effective resumption of their research. In this REF period six colleagues have
 benefited from this scheme. The Faculty has also shown itself willing and able to make workload
 adjustments in order to enable colleagues with health problems and disabilities to remain
 research-active. Similarly, the Faculty seeks to accommodate requests for flexible working and
 has been able to respond positively to all requests thus far. The University has a range of policies
 promoting well-being, and when necessary staff are able to access the Staff Counselling Service.
 Colleges are also a valuable source of social as well as academic and material support, many of
 them organising events for members’ families.
          The Athena SWAN process led to numerous insights into the pressure points arising from
 work, and a series of interventions is in progress, all aimed at creating an inclusive research
 culture. This includes general and generic measures such as pushing towards family-friendly
 meeting times. It also includes specific research-related measures, leading to a Focus Group
 exercise designed to ascertain what affects the confidence of colleagues in undertaking grant
 applications. The creation of Faculty Awaydays and the Grants Incubator meeting are two
 examples of the way we have tried to design productive and informal meeting formats.
          The Faculty membership of the REF Committee from the outset has aimed at 50-50 men
 and women, and this has been sustained throughout the period of outputs selection between 2018
 and the deadline. One member was designated the Equality and Diversity lead. In addition to this,
 key procedures and documents (the framework and scoresheet for selecting outputs; equality
 considerations in approaching the Staff List) benefited from consultation with the Faculty’s Athena
 SWAN Chair and the EDI Officer, thus going beyond the requirements of the University’s Code of
 Practice. This included discussion of the outputs profile, aiming to ensure that, with an informed
 understanding of the interactions between gender, seniority, and career breaks, the submission is
 unbiased and optimal.


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 The Chair of RPSC sits ex officio on the PRC, as well as the Faculty Board. This ensures that
 research is central in the Faculty’s financial administration and policy-making.

 External funding

 The generation of research income to undertake major projects is a key priority. In the REF 2021
 period the UoA’s external research funding award value totalled £4.75M, a large increase on the
 REF 2014 period, where the equivalent figure was £1.49M. A considerable amount of incoming
 funding is attributable to two major collaborative projects: Crossroads of Knowledge (ERC, PI
 Mukherji), and the Concept Lab (PI De Bolla). Funding for the Leverhulme CFI is attributed to
 Philosophy where the PI is based, but Dillon has played a major part in the AI Narratives strand
 of the project, including a year seconded to the Centre, and was Co-Investigator on the ‘Global AI
 Narratives’ grant (Templeton World Charity Foundation, £175K). She has also won funding for a
 Mellon Sawyer seminar on ‘Histories of AI: A Genealogy of Power’ ($225K), running 2020-21.
         The Faculty has again proved successful in winning funding for individual fellowships, such
 as Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships (Charteris, Hester, Knight, Morgan, Nabugodi, Tobin),
 Leverhulme Research Fellowships (Boddy, Hrebeniak, Morgenstern, Toner, Waithe, Warnes,
 Wilson, Wilson-Lee, Zeeman), British Academy Mid-Career Fellowships (Da Rold, Macfarlane,
 Wilson-Lee), a Mellon/Newton Interdisciplinary Post-Doctoral Research Fellowship (Wood, based
 at CRASSH), and a Riksbankens Jubileums fond Fellowship at the School of Advanced Study in
 Uppsala (Jones). Further funding has come in for collaborative projects based at other institutions
 (Newbould, AHRC project on the Sterne Digital Library; Abbott, on the Wordsworth print and digital
 editions, based at Newcastle), from the DAAD and Cambridge-LMU (Munich) partnership for
 projects linked with Germany (Bowman, Mellor, Schramm), from the Arts Council and other arts
 organisations (substantial funding that does not appear in the above figures supporting
 Svendsen’s projects, and the folk music response to Macfarlane’s Lost Words), the Cambridge-
 Africa ALBORADA fund, which has enabled Dillon and Morgenstern to undertake collaborative
 research in Africa.
         Winning more research funding is a key priority for the future. Collaboration in a pilot
 scheme with the SAH Research Facilitators, who offer generic and individual support to grant
 applicants at all stages of the process, aims to identify potential projects and to steer them through
 stages of development from initial idea through to full application. The particular emphasis of this
 collaboration is the building of applications over a longer development period, to enhance the
 chances of winning large grants. RPSC monitors progress and statistics relating to applications;
 the Research Support Fund it administers has had future applications as one of its priorities. PRC
 has awarded seedcorn grants when new projects are in development. The stint model now awards
 significant points to anyone writing a grant application, acknowledging the time taken and the
 contribution to the Faculty.
         The EDI implications of research funding were an area of interest in the Faculty’s work
 towards Athena SWAN accreditation. The result, as was mentioned in the previous section, is a
 set of actions designed to understand and address impediments. The institution of a termly ‘Grants
 Incubator’ meeting aims at culture change. Open to all, it is designed as a means of sharing
 information and experience. In the case of ECRs the aim is not only to provide encouragement for
 applications, but also to lay foundations for future careers. This commitment to sharing information
 and experience is reflected also in the creation of a collection of past applications to ensure the
 sharing of best practice and experience of grant application and project management. These

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 initiatives have not had long to take effect, but early signs are promising: applications in the
 academic year 19-20 totalled £5M, up from £1.8M in 18-19.
          The funding of JRFs does not count as research funding in the REF criteria; nevertheless,
 these colleagues have been successful in securing highly competitive posts bringing outstanding
 early-career researchers from across the world to Cambridge. Every year more established
 colleagues help run the competitions, sitting on JRF appointments committees, assessing
 applications, and reading written work, and thereby contributing a great deal to the effort (shared
 with many colleagues nationally and internationally) of sifting applications. Each JRF is a post-
 doctoral post won in intense competition for the Faculty, and these ECR posts, and the work put
 into them by Faculty members, are a valuable contribution to the discipline nationally and beyond.
          Over the REF period research funding has led to excellent outputs and impact of varying
 kinds. In the case of the Crossroads of Knowledge project (ERC-funded) the emphasis was on a
 very wide range of events, followed up with landmark collections of essays, which brought together
 the range of scholarly perspectives on which the project was based. In the case of the Concept
 Lab a pioneering suite of digital tools was constructed for parsing conceptual forms both
 synchronically and diachronically. These tools are now hosted by the University Library digital unit
 and are already being used by research projects both within and outside Cambridge (Groningen
 and London). The Lab also founded a new area of research, distributional concept analysis, and
 has published papers in leading international journals setting out this new research agenda. The
 AI Narratives project has placed both more and less specialised essays in a range of journals and
 collections, aiming to reach the various audiences for whom that project is devised. Dillon and
 Dihal were also involved in policy reports (including ‘Portrayals and Perceptions of AI and Why
 They Matter’ for the Royal Society, and ‘AI and Gender: 5 Proposals for Future Research’) that
 provided another outlet for their research. The productivity of colleagues using individual research
 leave to write important articles and books has also been evident. Overall, in this REF period we
 have used a wide range of funding sources to devise projects and outputs in a range of carefully
 tailored combinations.

 Internal funds

 The Judith E. Wilson Fund exists to support the study and practice of poetry and drama, and its
 contribution to the Centre for Poetics is a key strategic use of the Fund (with a capital value
 standing at £6.5M, generating an annual income of £249,000). It enables us to support research
 in a variety of ways, including funding the Judith E. Wilson Reader in Drama and Poetry (Milne),
 and supporting a visiting fellowship for a poet / dramatist in residence. During this REF period the
 Judith E. Wilson Fellows have been Redell Olsen, Vahni Capildeo, Peter Hughes, Lee Ann Brown,
 Anne Boyer, and Bhanu Kapil: all of these distinguished figures have made very significant
 contributions to creative practice and practice-based research in the Faculty. The Judith E. Wilson
 Drama Studio is a venue for practice-based research as well as poetry and drama events. The
 Faculty has some smaller trust funds (e.g. the Members’ English Fund, and the Charles Oldham
 Trust Fund, which between them support the Centenary PhD bursary, awarded annually). These
 are used partly to provide grants to research students to assist with attendance at conferences
 and dissertation completion. The allocation of these funds is administered by the Graduate
 Funding Committee, while the operation of all internal sources of income is overseen by a Fund
 Managers Committee.
         The Faculty’s other research funds are managed by PRC and are available to all. They
 support conference attendance and other expenses (where an individual can claim up to £1000
 per year), the organisation of conferences, and the costs of running research groups. In early 2020
 the PRC decided to allocate funds resulting from the secondment of Connor and Schramm to


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CRASSH to additional administrative support for research, namely a part-time post to provide
 support for grant applications, Open Research, research ethics, and research initiatives and
 activities in general. The commitment to continued progress indicated by this decision remains,
 though the pandemic-influenced freeze on appointments suspended the appointment.
          Alongside this provision the Research Support Fund, already mentioned above, provided
 resources for a significant direction of resources towards non-routine research expenses, and
 impact-related activities. Beyond that, the SAH administers both the Small Research Grants
 scheme (funded by the Newton Trust) and the inter-school Cambridge Humanities Research
 Grants scheme (funded directly by the Vice-Chancellor’s office), both newly established during the
 assessment period. Colleagues have made successful applications to both schemes (total
 awarded £129,336 in the REF period). These funds have enabled, amongst other things, important
 groundwork towards Da Rold’s work on Medieval paper, Jones’s work on Digitising Tennyson, and
 Svendsen’s World Factory performance.

 Organisational infrastructure

 The REF 2014 Environment Statement describes a large and lively core of Faculty research
 seminars and research groups, fitting with the Faculty’s commitment to research across the
 subject from the Middle Ages to the present. This range remains: there are currently fourteen
 seminars, which are generally named ‘graduate seminars’ as a reflection of the fact they (in
 different ways) include PhD and MPhil students as key participants. Each seminar has a budget
 to pay for speakers’ travel and accommodation, and between them they ensure the Faculty hosts
 cutting-edge researchers from around the world. There have been innovations in fostering an
 enabling and energetic research culture within the Research Groups, with innovations such as the
 Renaissance Research Workshop, an informal lunchtime group where visitors to the Faculty and
 all researchers discuss work in progress and emerging issues in the field. A good proportion of
 the seminars and group activities have found ways of continuing to run remotely during the
 Coronavirus pandemic.
           As was mentioned above, the Faculty Research Seminar is an innovation aimed at cross-
 fertilising research between colleagues across and beyond their immediate specialisms. It brings
 together colleagues working on different periods but focusing on intersecting thematic interests,
 for example, poetics and theology, the theory of tragedy, and the idea of ‘rights’. It has also been
 a forum for representatives of major research projects to present developments in their work to
 the wider Faculty. As such it is addressing one of the initiatives identified by the Strategic Research
 Review, namely the generation of new intersections and research clusters without being bound by
 historical or topical specialism.
           The innovative work of the Centre for Material Texts continues: it has become a forum for
 numerous Faculty colleagues, in combination with other Cambridge scholars (from MML and
 History, and numerous librarians) and many visitors invited from outside, to share work focused
 on the material history of reading and writing. It has organised and sponsored conferences that
 have brought yet larger numbers into the Faculty; recent examples include Exuviae: Distributing
 The Self In Images And Objects, Paper-Stuff: Materiality, Technology And Invention, and News
 from No Place: A Conference on John Taylor, the Water-Poet. The institution of the Judith E.
 Wilson Centre for Poetics aims to achieve the same in relation to poetry and drama, with a
 particular focus on creative work. It is already acting as a host for a project to digitise the Jim Ede-
 David Jones correspondence held in the archive at Kettle’s Yard (Co-PI Kilbride). The presence
 of creative outputs in the REF submission, as well as creative elements in several Impact Case
 Studies, is further evidence that creative work is a crucial component of our work.



                                                                                                 Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          Library provision is a prominent part of the outstanding and extensive infrastructure
 supporting research. The University Library is a copyright library, ensures access to all necessary
 electronic resources, and has a globally-significant collection of rare books and manuscripts. The
 English Faculty Library is much more than a teaching collection. It is also an exhibition space, and
 most of all a highly innovative centre for research skills, copyright information, and IT. For PhD
 students in particular it is a crucial part of the research culture. The college libraries bring
 enormous value to many researchers, especially those working in earlier periods and book history.
 Many of the older colleges have significant holdings of valuable material, especially Gonville and
 Caius, Emmanuel, King’s, Pembroke, Queens’, St John’s, and Trinity; there are world-renowned
 collections, especially the Parker Library at Corpus Christi and the Pepys Library at Magdalene.
 The college librarians are valued colleagues who collaborate with the Faculty; some colleagues
 hold positions of great responsibility for these collections (notably Hughes, who is the Pepys
 Librarian, and Milne, Keeper of the Lewis Collection at Corpus Christi / Fitzwilliam Museum).
          The Faculty has its own Computer Officer and also draws upon the IT support offered by
 the SAH. Systems are constantly upgraded: one key change during the REF period has been a
 rolling replacement of desktop computers with laptops, supported by virtual workspaces and back-
 up. One of the key innovations of the first Faculty Impact Officer, extended by her successor, was
 an impact database which is a stable location for information, drafts of studies, and evidence.
 Participation in the Cambridge Digital Library, a University Library initiative creating a platform for
 digitisation projects, has been a key recent development. Researchers have been able to enhance
 the accessibility and sustainability both of rare materials and their digital versions. The CDL is now
 the venue for a collection of digitised Tennyson manuscripts (edited by Jones) and is the new
 home for the AHRC-funded Scriptorium project (transition steered by Burlinson, Lyne, and
 Zurcher).
          The colleges are very significant sources of infrastructural and other support. In particular,
 they provide, in varying ways, substantial benefits in kind for their Fellows, especially when it
 comes to organising events. Fellows of colleges (which means nearly everyone) can often expect
 discounted or even free venues, subsidised catering and accommodation, reception, clerical, and
 publicity support. Colleges are often sophisticated and modern conference venues, which makes
 these benefits in kind all the more valuable. Overall, we aim to maximise what we take from, and
 make of, the wide range of resources that the structure of the collegiate university affords.




                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The excellence of research in the Faculty is evident in the awards won by colleagues, including
 the Pattern Award (De Bolla);the Roland H. Bainton Book Prize in Literature (Kerrigan); the EM
 Forster Award for Literature, American Academy of Arts and Letters, the Children’s Book of the
 Year Award, the Premio Itas Award for Mountain Literature, the NDR Kultur Prize (Germany), an
 Honorary Professorship at Sheffield Hallam University, an honorary DLitt at the University of
 Aberdeen (Macfarlane); the American Musical Instrument Society Prize and Fellowship of the
 Academia Europaea (Page); an Honorary Fellowship of the Royal Irish Academy and of the Orwell
 Foundation (Wills); the Society of Authors Cholmondeley Award for poetry (Kapil, Mengham) and
 a Windham-Campbell Prize (Kapil); during the REF 2021 period Connor and Wills became FBAs.
 Alongside these accolades for senior colleagues, more junior colleagues and PhD students have
 also had distinctive success, such as the British Association for Irish Studies Essay Prize (Dukes)
 and the Review of English Studies essay prize for PhD students (Brammall, Bowles).
         There are further indications of the esteem in which our research is held, and the wide-
 ranging international connections made by colleagues, in the international lectures and fellowships
 they have given or held. Among hundreds of examples in dozens of countries, certain clusters
 stand out. Major research projects have led to prestigious engagements, some related to ongoing
 collaborations, some to promoting these projects around the world. Those related to AI Narratives
 (Dillon and Dihal), are covered in the relevant Impact Case Study; Crossroads of Knowledge
 (Mukherji and her Research Associates) led to many more. The Concept Lab (De Bolla, Jones, et
 al.) has led to events at Berkeley, Chicago, Helsinki, the New York/Abu Dhabi Centre, NYU, Oslo,
 Södertörn, South Carolina, Stanford, Stockholm, Turin, UCSB, Uppsala, Vancouver and
 Vanderbilt.
         Further major lectures include the Sidney Society biennial Jan van Dorsten memorial
 lecture (Alexander), the Alexander Lecture and the Churchill Lecture (Toronto and Bristol;
 Connor), the Oxford Wells Shakespeare Lectures (Kerrigan; also lectures in Athens, Georgia,
 Berkeley, Caltech, Copenhagen, Lisbon, Rome, Stanford), the British Academy Shakespeare
 Lecture (Lyne), the Shannon-Clark Lecture and the UNESCO City of Literature Lecture (University
 of Virginia and Nottingham; Macfarlane), the Ruskin Lecture and the Claridge Lecture (Millennium
 Gallery, Sheffield, and Illinois College; Waithe), lectures at the University of Canterbury,
 Christchurch, New Zealand, Durham University, Global Justice Academy, Centre for Cultural
 Relations and Social Trends Institute, University of Edinburgh, Freie Universität Berlin, University
 of Otago, Dunedin, ICI Institute for Cultural Inquiry, Berlin, Institute of Georgian Literature, Tbilisi,
 Georgia (Wallace), and the Brooke Lecture (Manchester, Zeeman). Bassett gave a series of major
 talks in Finland and the Baltic States in the course of her Helsinki Fellowship (see below). Wills
 has given a series of major lectures on Irish literature and the literature of migration, including the
 Adele Dalsimer Annual Lecture, Boston College; the Keynote Address at the 25th Annual British
 Commonwealth and Postcolonial Studies Conference, Savannah, Georgia; the President’s
 Distinguished Lecture, Framingham State University; the Annual Distinguished Irish Studies
 Lecture, University of London; the Madden-Rooney Annual Public Lecture, Dublin; the 15th Annual
 Parnell Lecture, Magdalene College, Cambridge, and a public lecture at the American Repertory
 Theatre, Cambridge, Massachusetts, organised by the Consulate General of Ireland, to mark the
 centenary performance of The Plough and the Stars.
         Again, prominent lectures by senior colleagues are matched by those given by relatively
 junior researchers. Among research fellows, for example, Dukes gave a plenary Lecture at the
 Sorbonne, Paris, while Lazarus was invited to give papers at seminars at Bard College, Berkeley,
 Chicago, CUNY Graduate Center, Harvard, University of Pennsylvania, Princeton, and the
 University of Texas at Austin. The Faculty and colleges are themselves the hosts of several major

                                                                                                  Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 lectures and series of lectures, such as the Raymond Williams lecture and the Clark Lectures
 (hosted by Trinity College).
          A similar pattern can be observed in the fellowships won by colleagues at universities and
 institutions around the world: Abbott to the Harvard University Institute for Renaissance Studies
 (Villa I Tatti, Florence) and Shanghai University of Finance and Economics; Bassett to the Helsinki
 Collegium for Advanced Studies as an Helsingin Sanomat Foundation Fellow; Kerrigan to
 Princeton; Lyne to a BritInn Fellowship in Innsbruck; Macfarlane to the Centre for Advanced Study
 at the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters in Oslo; Toner to Università degli Studi della
 Tuscia, Viterbo; Wallace to the University of Canterbury, Christchurch, New Zealand, and the
 University of Michigan; and Zeeman to the Radcliffe Institute of Advanced Study, Harvard.
 Meanwhile ECRs have been successful in winning library fellowships to key research collections
 in the USA: Hone at the Beinecke Library, Yale; Knight at the Huntington Library; and Lazarus at
 the Folger Shakespeare Library and the Harry Ransom Center Research Fellowship, Austin.
 Others have been selected for the BBC’s New Generation Thinkers programme (Hester,
 Moshenska, then a recently appointed CTO, Murray, Walker-Gore) and for the British Academy’s
 Rising Star Engagement Awards (Harris, Wood).

 Contribution to the discipline, nationally and internationally

 Our contribution to the discipline nationally and internationally is evident in participation in
 numerous grant- and fellowship-awarding bodies, in assessing many promotion and tenure
 applications, and in advisory roles on major research projects. The diversity of this list can be
 represented in a selection of examples: the American Academy in Berlin Fellowship (Boddy),
 Aberdeen Humanities Fund (Kerrigan), Austrian Science Fund (Bassett), British Academy (Da
 Rold, Macfarlane, including Connor as Chair of the Culture, Media and Performance Postdoctoral
 Fellowships Panel), ERC (Da Rold, Mukherji), Graduate School of Historical Studies, Tel Aviv
 University (Boddy), Helsinki Collegium for Advanced Studies (Bassett), Irish Research Council
 (Boddy), National Research Foundation of South Africa (Warnes), National Science Foundation
 Postdoctoral Awards (Wallace), Research Council KU Leuven, Research Foundation Flanders
 (FWO) (Dillon),Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council, Canada (Boddy, Da Rold,
 Dillon, Joy), Swiss National Science Foundation (Bassett), UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships
 (Connor), Wellcome Trust Funding Panels (Connor, Hillman). Judges of creative writing prizes
 include Gorji (Resurgence / Gingko Prize), and Milne (Cholmondeley Awards).
         Colleagues have made notable contributions to the AHRC peer-review college. Alexander
 and Hillman are current members; Da Rold’s period of service, which included sitting on the Digital
 Transformation Panel, was formally recognised for ‘outstanding contribution’. Wood was a
 member of both the AHRC Research Careers and Training Advisory Group and the AHRC
 Emerging Research Leaders Focus Group. Within Cambridge, colleagues have made major
 contributions to the AHRC DTP, including Bassett, Boddy, Connor (as coordinator and
 contributor), Da Rold (on steering committee), Dillon (as Deputy Chair), and Ettenhuber. Bassett
 has refereed for the EPSRC as well as the AHRC (including vice-Chairing the selection panel for
 the ‘Next Generation Immersive Experiences’ call) and has contributed to doctoral training
 programmes in the UK (CHASE, Oxford), in Finland, and the Young European Communication
 Research Association Conference. Corfield-Carr has acted as a respondent and tutor for practice-
 based PhD researchers in the Department of Art, Goldsmiths University. As has already been
 mentioned, the efforts devoted to the process of selecting JRFs (and also CRASSH fellowships)
 are a further contribution to the landscape of early career research in the UK, and thus to the
 sustainability of the discipline.



                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          Another form of contribution to the discipline nationally and internationally is in the editing
 of journals, in the refereeing process for publication more generally, and in contributing to learned
 societies. Bavidge is the President of the Literary London Society; Boddy is a Member of the
 Steering Group of the European Network for Short Fiction Research; Connell is an Executive
 Committee Member of the British Society for 18th Century Studies; Maddison is the President of
 the Elizabeth Von Armin Society, which gathers experts and enthusiasts from around the world;
 and Wills has been a Member of the Executive for the Irish Panel, Modern Languages Association.
 Colleagues are constantly involved in assessing material for publication in journals or as books.
 They also sit on the editorial boards of more than 30 journals. These include journals that represent
 the field with which we are traditionally associated, such as Critical Quarterly (Boddy), The Hopkins
 Quarterly (Hurley), Romanticism (Kerrigan), The Seventeenth Century (Tilmouth), Shakespeare
 Survey (Lees-Jeffries), and The Yearbook of Langland Studies (Zeeman), and also journals in
 innovative, international, interdisciplinary fields, such as Medical Humanities (BMJ) (Barr),
 Children’s Literature in Education (Joy), Early Music (Page), Fantastika (Dillon), ForeCAAST
 (Forum for European Contributions to African American Studies; Meer), Green Letters
 (Macfarlane),Interference: A Journal of Audio Cultures (Connor),Irish University Review (Kerrigan,
 Wills), Journal of African Cultural Studies (Warnes), Journal of Historical Sociolinguistics (Wright),
 Journal of Transnational American Studies (Meer), Re-Frame (Bassett), The Senses and Society
 (Connor).

 Interdisciplinary research

 The Faculty supports a great deal of interdisciplinary research, drawing on the energies enabled
 by the Cambridge environment, CRASSH, and the priorities derived from the Strategic Research
 Review. In many cases, the practice and implications of this research reach beyond Cambridge
 and academia. One particular strength of REF 2021 period is the concentration of research
 focused on problems and priorities faced by contemporary society, such as Artificial Intelligence
 (Dihal, Dillon), Hate Speech (Knight), Migration (Wills, and the Migrant Knowledge strand of the
 Crossroads of Knowledge project) and the history and purpose of universities, with Abbott and
 Wood (former RF at CRASSH) co-PIs on ‘University Keywords’, a digital humanities experiment
 to chart shifts in keywords related to Higher Education.
         One such concentration, involving multiple colleagues, has been on the literature of
 ecological crisis. Gorji has contributed to a poetry and environment workshop organised by the
 Cambridge Conservation Initiative (CCI). Under the auspices of the Centre for John Clare Studies,
 she organised an interdisciplinary conference on John Clare’s Birds, again in collaboration with
 CCI, and a conference on John Clare’s plants in collaboration with the Cambridge University
 Botanic Garden. She has also set up an interdisciplinary Environment Research Group in
 Pembroke College. Also in collaboration with the CCI, Wormald organised the conference ‘Owned
 by Everyone’, marking the International Year of the Salmon with a unique gathering of activists,
 anglers, anthropologists, biologists, conservationists, ecologists, historians, literary scholars,
 poets, and politicians from North America and Northern Europe. Macfarlane’s work on the
 language of nature and the idea of the Anthropocene is described at length in Impact Case
 Studies. He is also part of the Luce Anthropocene Working Group, a three-year project based at
 Duke University, North Carolina, which brings together fourteen philosophers, theologians,
 lawyers, anthropologists and Traditional Ecological Knowledge specialists to think through the
 challenges of The Anthropocene. Milne’s multiple creative and critical projects, publications and
 performance events, especially those relating to lichens and their place in the environment, offer
 another original response to ecological crisis.



                                                                                                 Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         De Bolla’s Concept Lab evolved out of, and still features, an interest in the history of the
 concept of ‘rights’. This is another strand in which the work of the Faculty has tackled a subject of
 intense contemporary as well as historical interest. Schramm has spoken about her work on rights
 at DAAD Zenko, Berlin, University of Tasmania, University of New South Wales, Sydney,
 University of Technology, Sydney, and about censorship in Lancaster, Florence, Melbourne, and
 RHUL. Her work on forms of law includes analysis of current attempts to reform the Australian
 Constitution so that it explicitly acknowledges indigenous rights. Schramm’s paper on global
 citizenship and literary culture at the DAAD Zenko in Berlin was attended by a group of Brazilian
 constitutional lawyers. This led to a plan for a collaborative conference as part of the DAAD-
 Cambridge programme, with the working title of ‘New Directions in Global Citizenship’; this was to
 take place in November 2020 but has been postponed as a result of the pandemic.
         Finally in this account of engagements with pressing social issues, credit is due to Toner’s
 work on ellipsis in literature, cited as part of an attempt to fathom Donald Trump’s speeches in
 The Week, February 21, 2017.
         More generally our research profile is characterised by very substantial interdisciplinary
 projects. The Sound Reading Group and ‘Auralities’ network based at CRASSH (Connor, Gorji)
 share an interest in the aural with the Cambridge Interdisciplinary Song Group and Seminar
 (founders Alexander, Russell), and include contributors from classics, philosophy, theology,
 Music, modern languages, theology/religious studies, as well as English. Alexander has also
 collaborated in the research towards two new recordings of the English Verse Anthem repertoire
 (Fretwork/His Majestys Sagbutts and Cornets/Magdalena Consort).
         Da Rold has been a leading figure at the interface between medieval studies, book history,
 and digital humanities, as a member of the consultative committee of The Quadrivium (Universities
 of Birmingham, Glasgow, QMUL, York) and as a member of the Medieval Manuscript Research
 Consortium (Universities of Birmingham, Glasgow, Leicester, QUB, St Andrews, York). She
 helped develop the Palimpsests ‘Hackathon’, a training programme organised by Cambridge
 University Library and QMUL, which provides advanced students in medieval studies with practical
 experience in digital methods, technologies, design and collaboration. De Bolla’s Concept Lab is
 another leading Digital Humanities project that has already generated further research projects
 outside Cambridge, one funded by the ERC; and De Bolla participates in the ‘Re-Enlightenment’
 Project, funded by an ERC grant (PI Andrea Sangiacomo, University of Groningen), whose aim is
 to map the history of scientific and philosophical concepts in the European Enlightenment. Further
 expansion in this field is planned, following the appointment of Bassett, who has won an AHRC /
 Irish Research Council Networking grant in collaboration with the universities of Sussex and
 Maynooth.
         Again it is not only senior figures whose work shows such ambition. JRF Corfield-Carr’s
 poetic residencies and site-specific work include collaborations with museums, galleries, and sites
 include caves, an orchard, and a passenger ferry. This is part of a broader involvement of
 colleagues with exhibition, installation, and performance work (Hrebeniak, Kapil, Milne; and
 Mengham, who acts as Curator of the important art collection at Jesus College, as well as a poetry
 editor at Equipage press.) As JRFs, Brljak and Lazarus organised an interdisciplinary ‘Poetics
 before Modernity’ project (funded by CRASSH, the Faculty and by colleges), which included a
 lecture series featuring international speakers, an early-career conference, and two publications
 (an essay collection and a journal special issue). Leverhulme ECR Tobin co-curated Theatres of
 War: 1914-1918, a special issue of the Paul Mellon Centre’s open access online journal, British
 Art Studies, comprising a digital exhibition, film, and interactive map.
         Other examples include – the Interdisciplinary Dance Workshop (Wills, Thaventhiran),
 Joy’s role as a member of the Advisory Group of the National Children’s Poetry Archive, the
 Wellcome-funded Blood Project (Lander Johnson), Svendsen’s contributions to the theatre /
 climate crisis ‘Season for Change’, and Morgenstern’s collaboration with the University of the

                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Western Cape (SA) on a conference about periodicals in the Global South. The colleges are also
 locations for lively interdisciplinary research groups that bring colleagues into contact with experts
 in different fields: the Trinity Early Modernists reading group, for example, and the Peterhouse
 Theory Group. These are just selected instances of a research culture that prizes and supports
 research pushing at the boundaries of the subject.

 Reaching recipients outside academia

 Members of the Faculty have worked with a range of institutions outside academia to present their
 research to wider audiences. These range from Lees-Jeffries speaking regularly at the Globe
 theatre, to one-off events such as Meer’s Bath Minerva lecture, and her participation in activities
 related to the 200th anniversary of the birth of Frederick Douglass, including an essay in History
 Now, an online journal for primary and secondary school teachers in the US. Before his retirement
 Page gave twenty-eight lectures aimed at the general public, all filmed and available on YouTube,
 in his role as Gresham Professor of Music (2014-18). Hurley’s work on faith and poetry underlies
 his contribution as Trustee and Chairman of the Christian Heritage Centre at Stonyhurst College.
 Waithe has given a series of talks about craftsmanship, mostly related to the work of John Ruskin,
 at such venues as the Art Workers’ Guild, London, Millennium Gallery, Museums Sheffield, and
 the Walkley Community Centre (Heritage Lottery-funded ‘Ruskin in Sheffield’ project); he has also
 collaborated with the letter-cutter Lida Cardozo Kindersley on a book, The Ins and Outs of Public
 Lettering (2020). As one of the editors of the new OUP edition of the works of Fulke Greville,
 Alexander co-convened and spoke at a ‘Fulke Greville’ public day event at the Warwickshire
 County Record Office, May 2015. Joy is the Chair of the steering committee for a major public
 annual lecture on children's literature, The Philippa Pearce Lecture, given by a prominent
 children’s writer, and each year since 2016 she has introduced and responded to the lecture. The
 lead-up to, and reception of Gopal’s book Insurgent Empire (2019) has led to numerous
 appearances at academic, policy, and popular events, and essays / interviews in Al Jazeera, The
 Guardian, The Hindu, HuffPost, The Independent, India Today, Medium, The Nation, New
 Humanist, New Statesman, Open, Open Democracy, Outlook India, and The Times Literary
 Supplement.
          Colleagues have been involved in broadcasting, both in ad hoc slots on programmes such
 as In Our Time (and The Verb, Seriously…, Free Thinking, Today, etc.), and in more substantial
 engagements with the development of programming. Wills has spoken on BBC Radio 3, BBC
 Radio London, BBC Radio Northern Ireland, RTÉ Radio One, Newstalk, and Dublin City FM,
 discussing literary and historical topics including Irish neutrality, the poetry of Louis MacNeice,
 literature and the centenary of the 1916 Rising, Eamon de Valera, postcolonial literatures, Irish
 feminism, and post-war migrant cultures in Britain. Her research has been the subject of profiles
 and interviews in The Guardian, BBC History Magazine, The Irish Times, Irish Independent, Irish
 Examiner and iNews, and her book Lovers and Strangers was used as the basis for the BBC2
 series A Passage to Britain in September 2018.The reception of Riley’s book The Bad Trip led to
 interviews on BBC Radio London, 5Live, Talk Radio, Talk Radio Europe, Monocle Radio, BBC
 Radio Scotland, RTÉ, National Public Radio (US), Canadian Broadcasting.
          Wright’s contribution to Radio 4’s Word of Mouth helped shape a unique combination of
 scholarship and popular radio, both as co-presenter (with Michael Rosen), and in choosing
 academic guests. Her work on house naming was also featured on a Royal Mail blog. Dillon has
 been involved in devising and presenting the BBC Radio 3 programme Literary Pursuits, historical
 and biographical investigations related to great literary works. She has also developed and
 presented the segment ‘Close Reading’, part of Open Book on BBC Radio 4; and she has also
 worked on Proms Extra Live Events and Broadcasts, and hosted discussions at the Cambridge


                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Film Festival. Boddy has contributed to programmes such as the BBC Culture Show, BBC2’s
 Portillo’s Secrets, a documentary on the boxer Jack Johnson, a documentary on boxing narratives
 for Al-Araby TV, and in a Talking Politics podcast on great political novels. Boddy has written for
 non-academic journals such as Prospect, and has also acted as interviewer and chair at the
 Cambridge Literary Festival for sessions with Dermot Galgut (2014), Richard Ford (2017), and
 Olga Tokarzcuk (2018), and a special event with Lee Child.Copies of Boddy’s cultural- and literary-
 historical work Blooming Flowers were also included in ward staff care packages organised by
 Sussex Partnership NHS Health Trust’s mental health charity Head On. Among a range of
 broadcasting arising from her New Generation Thinker award, JRF Murray helped develop
 episodes of Free Thinking on the Declaration of Arbroath (700th Anniversary) and Boethius.
          Colleagues have also supported and created a range of exhibitions and other events that
 grow out of their research. An online exhibition at the Fitzwilliam Museum was one result of the
 Crossroads of Knowledge project; Mukherji also organized and participated in a range of public-
 facing events with visual artists, theatre professionals, and legal practitioners. Connor contributed
 to the Guardian podcast conversation ‘How Do Human Voices Work?’, arising from the Wellcome
 Collection exhibition This is a Voice. Wills’s collaboration with the Migration Museum has involved
 several talks and film introductions. Gonda has been an invited speaker at the British Art Network:
 Queer British Art conference held at Tate Britain in 2017, and wrote commissioned essays for the
 Queer British Art exhibition catalogue and for the Modern Couples: Art, Intimacy and the Avant-
 Garde exhibition (Barbican, 2018). Wallace spoke about poetry and classical sculpture at the
 ‘Body Beautiful’ exhibition at the British Museum. Hester devised an audio tour of the Queer
 Spaces of Cambridge. Tobin acted as advisor and contributor to the public engagement
 programme and exhibition catalogue for a touring Tate St Ives exhibition entitled Virginia Woolf:
 An Exhibition Inspired by her Writing; she also lectured on the exhibition at Tate St Ives, at Pallant
 House, Chichester, and Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge. Toner curated a Jane Austen exhibition
 in the Cambridge University Library, which brought together for the first time Austen letters in
 Cambridge collections (University Library, King’s College Library, Fitzwilliam Museum), along with
 rare printed material; this exhibition is now permanently available in Persuasions On-Line.
 Wormald’s project to bring the archive of Irish painter and environmentalist Barrie Cooke (closely
 connected to poets including Heaney, Hughes, and others) to Pembroke College Library has been
 achieved, with £275K funding from a range of sources, including the National Heritage Memorial
 Fund, the Friends of the National Libraries, the Art Fund, and the Victoria and Albert Museum
 Purchase Grant Fund. It is already apparent that this archive is likely to be supplemented by further
 materials from the Cooke-Heaney-Hughes circle, and will catalyze interdisciplinary research in the
 years to come'
          Finally, taking this sustained effort to reach audiences outside academia into another
 medium, Wallace’s research into the reception of Greek Tragedy has led to a leading role on the
 Committee of the Cambridge Greek Play, which is performed every three years at the Cambridge
 Arts Theatre, to large audiences. She has organised the associated scholarly symposium in 2016,
 and in 2019 was the producer of the play. This involved selecting the director and liaison with the
 theatre, the creative team, the British Council in Athens, and the British Ambassador to Greece
 about a subsequent transfer of the show. Wallace has also been Judge and Chair of the London
 Hellenic Prize.

                                                   *

 Cambridge is fortunate to be able to sustain a large PhD and ECR community, and to support staff
 research with the material resources and multi-disciplinary intellectual environment provided by
 the Faculty, the Colleges, and the University. The successes of students and colleagues show
 that we have made use of these opportunities to provide an environment in which scholars at all

                                                                                               Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 career stages can thrive. Our focus in the REF 2021 period has been to expand the disciplinary
 horizons, engaging with developments nationally and internationally and producing leading work
 in a variety of fields. We have also aimed to enable all our diverse group of scholars to fulfil their
 research aspirations, and to disseminate their research to contribute to society, policy and culture.
 These remain our intentions looking ahead to the challenging years ahead, recognizing that the
 way to make the best of individual excellence is to foster a Faculty that is more than the sum of its
 parts.




                                                                                               Page 23
