Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of York

 Unit of Assessment: 2 - Public Health, Health Services and Primary Care

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1a – Unit context and structure
 Health research at University of York (UoY) has built on, and benefitted from, its achievements
 in REF 2014, not least our 100% 4* rating for research environment, which created a
 springboard for our success in this assessment period. In 2020 health research accounted for
 26% of all UoY research income contributing to our long-standing reputation for innovative,
 rigorous, interdisciplinary and influential health research and exceeding the objectives outlined in
 the 2014 REF submission.

 Substantial investment in staff and infrastructure (section 2 & 3) has almost doubled the number
 of staff submitted, from 52 to 92 FTE and grown research income to an average of £14.4m per
 year (over £101m in period). Our supportive and inclusive culture, positive environment and
 commitment to professional development (section 2), combined with a forward-looking strategy
 has enabled our health research community to thrive.

 UOA 2 research is carried out principally within four applied health research departments: the
 Centre for Health Economics (CHE), Centre for Reviews and Dissemination (CRD) Department
 of Health Sciences (HS) and Hull York Medical School (HYMS). These departments span two
 faculties (Sciences and Social Sciences) that provide physical space and research support to
 facilitate cross-disciplinary working, while maintaining the core disciplinary focus of each. Across
 these departments, researchers from many disciplinary and professional backgrounds work
 together to address national and global challenges. Our research is strengthened by established
 research networks with longstanding national and international partners (section 3 & 4).

 Implementation of our health research strategy, aligned with the UoY strategy as contextualised
 in the Institutional Environment Statement (IES), has created an infrastructure that builds on our
 disciplinary strengths and facilitates interdisciplinary research across contiguous departments.
 As part of our strategic approach, the University and health related departments have invested in
 staff, and new workspace and practices, to create a culture of interdisciplinary working that is
 conducive to producing innovative, impactful research. (IES paragraphs 2-4, 8). Our impact case
 studies (section 1c) highlight how our research contributes methodologically while informing
 policy and practice.

 1b – Research strategy
 Our 2014 UOA 2 strategic intent was to: ‘...make a significant contribution to the level and fair
 distribution of population health and the safety, quality and efficiency of services through high
 quality research across applied health and social care’.

 Since then we have created new knowledge that has underpinned the introduction of novel
 healthcare interventions and systems and facilitated changes in health policy and practice,
 nationally and internationally (section 1c).

 In this assessment period the UoY Research Strategy has been supported by new institutional
 structures and investment (IES paragraphs 8 to 10), including the establishment of seven
 university wide interdisciplinary research themes (IES paragraph 4), two of which were led by
 senior health researchers who facilitate novel interdisciplinary research across Health and
 Wellbeing (Bloor) and Justice and Equality (Pickett). UOA 2 departments’ investment in research
 staff and networks has been instrumental in supporting the academic collaboration that
 underpins the policy and practice relevant research for which York is renowned. Engagement
 across the UOA 2 departments, with other disciplines through York departments: Biology,
 Environment and Geography, Psychology, Social Policy and Social Work, Sociology, Education


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and externally with other HEIs and research institutes is evidenced by 90% of our UOA 2
 research outputs being flagged as interdisciplinary (REF 2).

 Our 2014 research plans stated that we would build on our ‘thematic architecture’, which we
 summarised in three core areas: Health Technology Assessment, Health Policy and Public
 Health. Each of these areas has subsequently grown and we have expanded global health
 activities across the whole research portfolio (section 1c & 4). Through developing and refining
 methodological approaches, as well as designing and evaluating innovative interventions, our
 research has demonstrated quantifiable impact in health policy and practice (see REF 3).

 Health Technology Assessment (HTA)
 UoY HTA is known for innovation and rigour, drawing on expertise in evidence synthesis, clinical
 trials and economic evaluation to produce best evidence for decision-making. Future aims in our
 REF2014 submission - to advance methodological development; expand the scope of our trials
 of complex interventions; and increase the global reach of our research methods - have been
 delivered and exceeded.

 Our methodological research has developed and refined the methods and processes of HTA,
 informing the activities of NICE and other agencies internationally. Examples include
 development of population-adjusted indirect comparisons in medical decision-making (Dias,
 Palmer); modelling methods in advanced cancer (Palmer, Rothery, Soares, Woods); methods
 for the assessment of regenerative medicines and cell therapy (Palmer, Hodgson); elicitation of
 expert judgements to inform decision models (Bojke, Soares); methods for stratified,
 personalised and precision medicine (Iglesias, Manca); methods to establish the value of
 diagnostic and prognostic testing (Sculpher). Our methods research on handling uncertainty to
 support decision-making and research prioritisation won an international award (Bojke,
 Griffin, Palmer, and Rothery) and Rothery leads an International Research Task Force on these
 methods. More generally, we have been instrumental in the development and application of
 complex methods of synthesis such as network and IPD meta-analysis (Dias, Simmonds,
 Soares, Stewart) as well as qualitative synthesis and synthesis without meta-analysis
 (Flemming, Sowden) and living systematic reviews (Simmonds).

 Our evidence syntheses cover a broad range of topics with particular strengths in mental health
 (Bojke, Churchill, Coventry, Dias, Gega, Gilbody, McMillan, Siddiqi, Wright), neonatal care and
 nutrition (McGuire); paediatric cancer supportive care (Morgan, Phillips) and orthopaedics
 (Hewitt, McDaid, Rangan, Torgerson). Our impact case studies demonstrate this (see REF3).

 In the assessment period, UOA2 staff authored over 200 evidence syntheses, including over 60
 Cochrane reviews, across a broad range of health topics (section 4). In addition to providing
 best evidence for decision-making, our evidence syntheses have identified research needs, and
 in discussion with stakeholders we have prioritised research questions, many of which have led
 to the development, piloting and evaluation of interventions through large-scale pragmatic trials
 (Churchill, Gilbody, Hewitt, McDaid, McGuire, Phillips, Torgerson and Wright).

 Since 2014, York Trials Unit (YTU), a UKCRC registered clinical trials unit led by two UOA 2
 professors (Torgerson and Hewitt), has completed 105 projects, including 76 randomised trials.
 The YTU research portfolio has expanded in scope and depth, particularly in the evaluation of
 complex interventions, as evidenced by our large-scale trials in mental health and orthopaedic
 surgery. In 2014 we established the British Orthopaedics Association Surgical Research Centre
 at York, and in 2015 YTU became a Royal College of Surgeons accredited Surgical Trials
 Centre and established a series of trials in orthopaedic surgery (Rangan).

 We major in mental health trials coordinated through our Mental Health & Addictions Research
 Group (led by Gilbody) where we evaluate complex interventions across the life course including
 screening, psychological and behavioural interventions and innovative and scalable methods of
 delivering evidence-based interventions. Completed and active trials include telephone-delivered
 collaborative care for older people with depression (Gilbody, Macmillan), computerised CBT as a

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 treatment for young people (Wright) and single session treatment for children with specific
 phobias (Gega).

 York's sustained leadership in the broader field of evaluation is evidenced by the many years
 that we have led/co-led Department of Health/NIHR funded policy research programmes and
 units in this field, including the Policy Research Unit in Economic Methods in Health and Care
 Interventions (EEPRU 2013-2018 and EEPRU II 2019-2023 (Sculpher) in collaboration with the
 University of Sheffield. Research within EEPRU has advanced methods and influenced policy,
 including the use of novel methods and datasets to estimate the marginal productivity of
 health expenditure in the NHS, social care and public health sectors (Sculpher). This work has
 also contributed to one of our impact case studies (see REF 3) and influenced PHE and DHSC
 policies; providing a framework for evaluating new antimicrobials (Palmer Rothery, Sculpher,
 Woods), which informed government policy for countering antimicrobial resistance and is now
 used by NICE in the context of new payment mechanisms for antibiotics. We have also created
 and hosted an extensive range of applied and policy informing clinical and economic data sets
 that are used for modelling and evaluation by a range of research teams and external networks.
 We conduct decision analytic modelling studies and economic and statistical evaluation of
 observational and registry and observational data sets, funded by the MRC, NIHR, NHS, EU,
 DfID and the charitable sector (e.g., British Heart Foundation - BHF).

 Our aim to increase economic evaluation, decision modelling and policy evaluation in low and
 middle income countries has been realised and is epitomised by our flagship GCRF
 funded “Thanzi la Onse” (Health of All) programme. Through interdisciplinary working within
 strong partnerships between epidemiology, economics and political science, this programme
 generates high quality research to inform resource allocation decisions in Southern and East
 Africa. This led to the creation of a Health Economics Community of Practice within the East
 Central and Southern (EC&S) African Health Community; an intergovernmental organisation
 representing ministries of health and universities in nine countries (Eswatini, Kenya, Lesotho,
 Malawi, Mauritius, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe).

 Health Policy
 UoY’s commitment to ensuring that health policy is informed by rigorous research has further
 strengthened since 2014 and delivered in key areas, all of which will be sustained and
 developed as part of our future strategy, in part through our long-established success in leading
 NIHR funded Policy Research programmes and units, most recently the Economics of Health
 Systems and Interface with Social Care - ESHCRU II, (Mason, in collaboration with LSE). These
 include: the measurement of the overall performance of the healthcare systems in terms of
 productivity (Castelli, Chalkley) which by building on our established expertise, developed
 methods for taking account of quality improvements in the NHS, assessed the feasibility of
 measuring performance at the level of individual hospitals, and applied a lens on productivity
 with regard to the impact of COVID-19. Research on the impact of different methods of
 payment on the delivery of healthcare (Chalkley, Doran, Goddard, Gravelle, Gutacker,
 Mason), has been distinctive in combining the concepts of theoretical economics applied to
 incentives with cutting edge empirical analysis of natural experiments in healthcare deriving from
 the phased or differential introduction of new payment systems, evaluating impact of pay for
 performance schemes and the effectiveness of activity based finance, including payment for
 mental health (Jacobs, Chalkley, Mason). We have examined the role of provider ownership,
 market forces and competition in shaping the efficiency and quality of healthcare, with a
 particular focus on patient choice (Gravelle, Gutacker).

 Our health policy research has expanded to achieve other objectives from 2014. This includes
 improving methods to assess the fairness of policy change and NHS financing, which has
 been achieved partly through the creation of the Wellcome-funded EQUIPOL (equity in health
 policy) research group (Doran and Cookson 2017-2022). Our objective to explore better
 methods for rapid but robust evaluation of complex interventions has been achieved
 through the work of the NIHR Health Services and Delivery Research Programme Evidence
 Synthesis Centre (Eastwood), the NIHR Policy Research Programme (PRP) Policy Reviews

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Facility (Sowden), and the NIHR PRP Fast-response Analysis Facility (Bloor). These two policy
 facing facilities provide timely, responsive research findings to DHSC and related organisations
 to inform policy developments - see details in section 3. The development and application of
 methods using linked clinical and administrative datasets to monitor health service
 performance has helped drive impact in policy, clinical and patient decision-making. This is
 evident in our impact case studies (section 1c and REF 3).

 Public Health
 Public health research is carried out collaboratively across departmental and disciplinary
 boundaries enabling us to focus on real world problems and global challenges to population
 health, with research on the impacts of ecological conditions such as climate change,
 biodiversity loss, chemical and air pollution, clean water, food and energy; and broader social
 determinants, including housing, social security, work and income, social relationships, human
 rights and social justice. In 2014 our stated aim was to: ‘...use advanced epidemiological
 approaches, evidence synthesis and Trials Within Cohorts to investigate social and healthcare
 delivery factors affecting inequalities in health and the effectiveness of non-NHS interventions’.

 We achieved this by strengthening our partnerships, developing novel methods and studying
 complex interactions as evidenced by our work with the Bradford Institute of Health Research,
 co-leading the current MRC/ESRC-funded primary school-age wave of the Born in Bradford
 (BiB) cohort study (Pickett) to understand the factors that affect child socio-emotional wellbeing,
 cognition, and healthy growth.

 We are a centre of excellence for methods of public health economics (Cookson, Griffin,
 Suhrcke, Bojke). Our research on distributional cost-effectiveness analysis (Cookson, Griffin,
 Sculpher, Walker) pioneered the development and application of new methods to integrate and
 quantify health inequality impacts in economic analysis of health interventions which informed
 NICE policies; as well as the development of health equity indicators now used routinely in the
 NHS (Cookson). Public health economics is also embedded in the Yorkshire and the Humber
 Applied Research Collaboration (ARC) and in ActEarly programmes (Bojke, Cookson,
 Richardson). Other methodological expertise lies in data linkage and sophisticated analysis of
 cohorts and administrative data (Doran, Fraser, Prady) and evidence synthesis in public
 health (Sowden).

 We are at the forefront of research on interactions between physical and mental health:
 aiming to prevent a) physical ill-health of people with severe mental ill-health (Gilbody, Siddiqi N,
 Ratschen) and b) mental ill-health among those with longstanding, chronic conditions such as
 diabetes (Siddiqi N, Jacobs). This research is embedded in our Yorkshire and the Humber ARC
 (Gilbody) and sits alongside our developing focus on public mental health, in the UK
 (Coventry) and in South Asia (Siddiqi N). We have developed targeted smoking cessation
 interventions for people with severe mental ill-health (Gilbody); focused on reducing the use of
 smokeless tobacco in South Asian countries and South Asian populations in the UK; and
 developed educational interventions to encourage ‘smoke free homes’ in Muslim communities
 (Siddiqi, K).

 An ambition in our previous REF submission to develop trans-disciplinary work with biological
 and environmental sciences has been achieved through the work of our Epidemiology and
 Cancer Statistics Group who work with biomedical researchers and clinical partners on
 haematological malignancies; research across health and the environment including the ESRC-
 funded Health of Populations and Ecosystems study; Wellcome-funded Lancet Countdown;
 Tracking Progress on Health and Climate Change; and the Leverhulme Centre for Anthropocene
 Biodiversity, which includes research on interrelationships between ecosystems, societal
 inequalities and wellbeing.




                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1c - Impact strategy and achievement
 UoY measures research success by the difference we make and the impact we have on
 population health - locally, nationally and globally. In 2014, our stated objectives for impact were:
 ‘to ensure research has high visibility nationally and internationally, and is relevant to policy
 makers and practitioners.’

 Our research impact strategy, appointment of departmental impact leads (Bywater, Churchill,
 Moreno-Serra, Wright) and implementation of research expectations have all helped achieve this
 objective, as have UoY initiatives to promote collaborative research and value wider societal
 impact, as part of positioning York as a University for the public good (IES paragraphs 1, 4-6).
 Our approach has resulted in a significant body of impactful research (see REF 3 and section 4).

 All our impact case studies (ICS) align with our impact strategy in that they are based on long
 standing external funding and have extensive stakeholder engagement (section 4). Impact is
 evidenced across our core areas of research - HTA, Health Policy and Public Health - (section
 1b), each of which has benefited from new staff appointments since 2014 (section 2). Examples
 of staff appointments that directly influenced our submitted ICS include: two research fellows
 (Ochalek, Woods) in 2014 who have contributed to ‘Using Economics to Inform Budget
 Allocation in Global Health’ ICS (see REF 3); a senior academic and former NHS National
 Clinical Lead (Doherty) in 2014 to direct the BHF National Audit of Cardiac Rehabilitation
 (hosted at UoY) and lead on ‘Cardiovascular prevention and rehabilitation’ (see REF 3); a
 Clinical Lecturer (Morgan) in 2016 who has contributed to our ‘Improving management of
 neutropenic sepsis in paediatric cancer patients’ ICS (see REF3).

 Working together, our researchers receive support to secure long-term programme funding,
 which has enabled us to forge and sustain long standing relationships with policy makers.
 Continuous funding of policy research units and programmes over more than 25 years has
 underpinned the production of research with substantial impact as illustrated. Over the
 assessment period our staff have utilised a range of methods of engagement to foster impact,
 including national and European professional committee memberships; advisory board roles;
 clinical and patient network events and meetings; regional, national and international steering
 group work (see REF 3 and section 4). UoY and health research infrastructure (section 3),
 including the York Research Impact Forum brings together researchers from across the
 University to share best practice and discuss issues and problems in aspects of their knowledge
 exchange or impact work.

 We encourage PIs and ECRs to engage actively with their stakeholders and beneficiaries, and in
 many of our research programmes this forms a core and funded component of the award.
 Departmental, UoY and external schemes (e.g., UKRI Impact Acceleration Awards) have also
 provided funding for impact development (see REF 3) including protected time, impact leave and
 travel to facilitate collaborative working within the university and in partnership with national and
 international stakeholders and end-users (IES paragraph 12-13). Most of our researchers have
 time for pursuing impact built into their projects. When this is not possible research leave can be
 requested for two to three weeks to carry out collaborative work and attend external meetings
 that support grant applications or impact related activity.

 Patient and public benefit is core to what we do and is evident in all our research groups and
 programmes of research through patient and public involvement and engagement (PPIE). This is
 embedded in our approach and often involves PPIE colleagues costed into grant applications as
 formal collaborators in our research. One example of PPIE in action is through our Cochrane
 Common Mental Disorders Group where we routinely involve patients and the public in priority-
 setting, co-production of protocol formation and dissemination outputs, and active peer review
 and co-authorship of publications, as well as engaging with them in wider PPIE opportunities
 (e.g., through the Cochrane Consumer Network and group webinars).

 At institutional level the UoY provides financial support for PPIE through a network led by senior
 researchers in partnership with local and regional NHS and social care service leads (section 4).

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research integrity, data governance and ethics
 Our approach to research governance and integrity (IES paragraph 14) is well-established,
 adhering to national and international standards and principles in accordance with the UK
 Research Integrity Office and the UUK Concordat. Our 2015 Health Research Strategy (updated
 in 2018) expressed our longstanding commitment to providing an infrastructure and culture to
 support staff and students in carrying out research underpinned by the highest level of integrity,
 professional conduct and governance. HR colleagues and Faculty Associate Deans for
 Research provide support to investigate fully (and if necessary, act upon) any possible research
 misconduct and any concerns about research integrity. Our working practices are reviewed and
 updated by UoY and relevant departmental research committees every three years; or in
 response to new challenges, such as the coronavirus pandemic, in respect of international and
 NHS based studies.

 Standard operating procedures across UOA 2 Research Committees require ethical approval
 before any form of participant involvement or primary data collection occurs. Our ethics and
 research governance committee (chaired by a senior independent academic) meets every two
 months and comprises researchers from UOA 2 along with at least one lay member. Time for
 chairing or supporting research ethics/governance/data committees is recognised in workload
 models. This process extends to NHS Health Research Authority applications, where we have a
 research governance oversight role. We work closely with our principal investigators and NHS
 research ethics committees to provide the necessary resources to support the ethics approval
 processes.

 Health research at York adheres to the UK Data Protection Act 2018 in accordance with General
 Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) requirements, and ensures that all research data are
 safeguarded and used only for the purpose for which it was gathered. This is monitored through
 our Data Governance Committee, which checks all research applications that intend to collect
 and store data with personal identifiers. This committee verifies data agreements with external
 agencies supplying York researchers with data and that departments holding NHS data meet
 NHS Information Governance Toolkit requirements, supported by mandatory staff training.
 These measures assure the public of York’s compliance with information governance standards.

 Open research environment
 Support for open access (OA) publishing
 We are committed to openness and transparency and make our research freely accessible,
 whenever possible. Our success in securing funding for long-term research programmes from
 NIHR, UKRI (e.g., MRC) and many charities for example the Charity Open Access Fund
 (COAF) has help provide substantial support for open access publishing. Open access funds
 for other research are provided by research groups and departments. UoY strategy (IES
 paragraph 15), with support from the Director of Library and Archives (who has responsibility
 for OA), has helped staff to move beyond compliance, by creating a culture that values and
 actively promotes open access. Our Research Committees and Faculty Research Groups
 have taken positive action to ensure that all grants factor in UKRI access, open research
 requirements, and adhere to UoY Policy on the publication of research. Academic staff,
 supported by experienced research administrators using PURE software, share operational
 responsibility for monitoring OA publishing and for placing research outputs in publicly
 accessible repositories in a timely fashion. Our ability to do this is enhanced through our
 White Rose University Consortium (section 2: Postgraduate Research Students).

 Support for ‘open data’ including sharing and management of research data
 Supported by the UoY Open Research Strategy Group and York’s approach to open research
 (IES paragraph 15) we are committed to the long-term development of an open research
 culture underpinned by strong governance structures. We operate in accordance with the
 Concordat on Open Research Data and UoY Research Data Management Policy. In 2018 we
 constituted a Data Governance Committee to review data management and governance
 processes focusing on research consent and data use beyond the formal end of a study. UOA


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2 researchers have taken proactive steps, adhering to GDPR guidance, to make their
 research data accessible and reproducible. Examples of open research activity include:
    ● Development and management of PROSPERO as an open resource, enabling
       researchers to register systematic reviews, and any user to access records, free of charge.
       Over 14,000 reviews were registered from 138 countries in 2019 (>100,000 registrations
       since inception in 2011); over 3,000 related to COVID-19 were registered to August 2020;
       there were over 2.7 million page views in 2019. Critical summaries of systematic reviews
       and economic evaluations are also available free of charge in archived versions of DARE
       and NHS EED databases.
    ● The Epidemiology and Cancer Statistics Group makes population-based data on
       disease occurrence and outcomes for haematological cancers freely available on the
       Haematological Malignancy Research Network website. This is the only place worldwide
       where accurate incidence, prevalence and survival data can be accessed and
       downloaded across all ages for all clinically meaningful diagnostic groups (WHO ICD-
       O3). Datasets from this project are also made freely available through the European
       Genome-Phenome Archive (Nature Genetics).
    ● YTU policy on open data enables researchers to access underpinning research data
       relating to published trials. Requests for anonymised (de-identified) patient level data
       are made through the corresponding author and reviewed by the trial management
       group.
    ● YTU’s Trial Forge Studies Within a Trial (SWATs) Centre, is part of an international
       initiative providing resources, freely and openly to help improve trial efficiency. Our
       Centre initiative ‘PROMETHEUS’ is used to pump-prime clinical trial teams to include
       SWATs routinely.

 Research objectives and activities for the next five years
 Our overarching strategic aim is to act in accordance with the principles of social justice to
 generate research evidence that drives the necessary policy and practice change required to
 improve the level and equitable distribution of population health. Our objectives for the next five
 years are to:
   ● Continue to grow and enhance the research underpinning evidence-based policy and
       practice in health and social care and public health;
   ● Develop further our research evaluating the impacts of population- and system-level
       policies on health and health inequalities;
   ● Contribute to improving efficiency and equity in health provision nationally and
       internationally, with a particular focus on low-and middle-income countries;
   ● Grow our knowledge translation and mobilisation activities, extending co-production, co-
       creation of knowledge and engagement with citizen science;
   ● Inform resource allocation decisions across sectors with the purpose of improving
       population health and wellbeing from limited resources.

 We will achieve these objectives through investing in, developing and employing novel empirical
 methods and cutting-edge theory, leveraging the best available data and understanding the
 experience of patients and the public. Our plans to further develop health research include:
   ● Leading and championing co-production of mental health research by working across the
      institution and with local, regional, national and global partners;
   ● Generating sustained interdisciplinary research translating fundamental science into useful
      clinical interventions and insights by working with the York Biomedical Research Institute
      and partners;
   ● Undertaking research to support the resilience and sustainability of global healthcare
      systems, in partnership with decision makers in the UK as well as in some of the world’s
      poorest countries, which includes investigating the medium and long-term determinants of
      future health arising from the pandemic;
   ● Ensuring our research reflects a diverse range of experiences, consistent with the social
      and cultural make-up of the societies in which it occurs.



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 In the assessment period we increased category A staff from 52 to 92 FTEs (101 staff in total),
 which enhanced our critical mass of expertise and generated significant impact (sections 1c &
 4). At the same time, we increased our average research income by £2.8m per year compared
 to REF 2014 (section 3). Growth was achieved through targeted recruitment and a proactive
 approach to staff retention; enabled through career development support, flexible working
 practices flexibility in the proportion of activity allocated to research, teaching and citizenship
 roles and opportunities for research and impact leave (with commensurate adjustment for part-
 time working) across all academic and research career stages. Our approach and success has
 contributed to a vibrant culture of interdisciplinary team working (section 1b) and regular open
 consultation with staff creates a transparent and positive working environment and a supportive
 culture.

 Our approach to building our research expertise and capacity is: (1) to recruit academic and
 senior research staff who are (or will become) leaders in their relevant research areas; (2) to
 appoint and retain career researchers whose interests and skills align with our established and
 emerging research areas; and (3) through ongoing guidance and support, to enable them to
 become future research leaders.

 Staff development strategy
 UoY’s commitment to professional development and career pathways (IES paragraph 9) has
 been recognised by two successive HR Excellence in Research awards (IES paragraph 27). In
 2016, as part of our Researcher Development Concordat (IES paragraphs 27 -28), we
 established a Contract Researchers Forum. This brings together career researchers and PhD
 students to share experiences and provides training and development opportunities to help
 support their career progression and enhance their role. The Forum is chaired by research staff
 and has dedicated administrative support, coordinating quarterly meetings and organising
 career-focused workshops and social events. Development is also supported through the UoY’s
 Mentoring Scheme and Research Excellence Training Team (IES paragraph 32).

 Strategy for academic and research appointments
 Our recruitment strategies reflect those of UoY (IES paragraph 20-21). To build capacity and
 strengthen the areas of strategic development outlined in REF 2014 and expertise in emerging
 methodologies, we appointed 23 senior staff across UOA 2, including two clinical academic
 professors, in key areas such as: Mental Health and Addictions (Churchill, Coventry, De
 Oliveira, Gega, Hawkins, Madden, McCambridge, Ratschen, Taylor, Van der Feltz-Cornelis,
 Wright); Health Technology Assessment (Dias); Cardiovascular Health (Doherty); Global Health
 (Dogar, Elsey, Moreno Serra, Siddiqi N, Suhrcke; Implementation Science (Glidewell) and a
 senior qualitative methodologist and health sociologist (Sheard) to embed a wider sociological
 perspective in our clinical trials. YTU was awarded capacity funding through the Mary Kinross
 Trust to appoint two professors (Adamson, Rangan). We have also invested in wider public
 health intelligence and economic expertise (Ferguson).

 Through our recruitment processes and ability to retain staff our overall staff base has grown to
 101 category A staff submitted. Of these 60 (59%) are women representing a 93% increase in
 the number of female staff submitted compared with REF 2014.

 Departments take an active approach to career development, including through individual
 performance and development review and mentoring alongside the collective efforts of
 Departmental Management Teams, Research Group Leads, Research Committees and the
 Contract Researchers Forum. Criteria for promotion and the annual promotion time scales are
 made available through our staff webpages, staff meetings and often discussed in staff open
 forums. Promotion is regularly discussed at meetings with mentors and line managers.



                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have successfully supported staff through promotion during the REF period. Of 93 staff that
 applied for promotion, 76 were successful representing an 81% success rate. Promotion
 outcomes (in-period) were in accordance with our Athena Swan action plan as evidenced by:
    • 57 women applied and 46 were promoted, (81% success rate). 36 men applied and 30
        were promoted (83% success rate).
    • 20 professorial applications (9 female, 11 male) were made, 18 (90%) were
        successful
    • 13 reader applications (9 female, 4 male) were made, 11 (84.6%) were successful
    • 6 women and 1 man who joined the UoY as ECRs or lecturers were promoted to
        professor.
    • 60 staff (39 female and 21 male) applied for promotion to lecturer/senior lecturer or a
        higher research grade with an 82% success rate for women and 80% success rate
        for men.
    • Of the 14 women working part-time, ten applied and all were promoted; of the nine
        men working part-time, one applied and was successful (six of these men were
        professors in the last REF).

 Integration of clinical academics
 York has a longstanding commitment to providing an environment that enables collaboration
 with the NHS. This is further supported by clinical academic appointments including eleven
 more made since 2014, resulting in a total of nineteen clinical academics who lead or collaborate
 in research within our health research groups and have strong links to other UoY departments
 including Biology and Psychology. The Hull York Medical School (HYMS) is the chief facilitator
 of our clinical academic appointments. HYMS promotes early clinical exposure and clinician-led
 problem-based-learning, which is allied to a research focus on evidence synthesis; intervention
 development; clinical trial evaluations; and public good. This is integrated with support from
 CRD, CHE, HS and strong regional and national clinical networks (section 1b HTA/Trials). This
 partnership brings together academic and clinical multi-disciplinary researcher teams who work
 together to improve the lives of patients and positively influence health service delivery as
 evidenced through our impact case studies (see REF 3). In the REF period we have also
 supported three NIHR Academic Clinical Fellows and one NIHR Clinical Lecture (Section 4).

 Our capacity to support clinical academics is enabled by UoY structures (section 1a) and
 through multiple, strong and sustained local and regional partnerships supporting clinical
 collaborations with, for example, York Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, South Tees
 Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Tees, Esk and Wear Valleys NHS Trust and Leeds and York
 Partnership NHS Trust. These partnerships and those with our global partners (e.g., The Aga
 Khan University and Khyber Medical University, Pakistan) enable our clinical academics to lead
 interdisciplinary research in designing and evaluating interventions through a range of
 methodological approaches. Our clinical academics also lead national NHS initiatives: for
 example, our trials in children and young people's mental health services within the Centre for
 Addiction and Mental Health (Wright); and global research in mental health and tobacco
 cessation (Gilbody, Siddiqi N, Siddiqi K). Our ability to further integrate and support clinical
 academic roles across mental health, global health and public health was enhanced by
 investment through the 70% expansion in undergraduate medical places awarded to HYMS in
 2017. Integration across our clinical and translational research environment (IES paragraph 45)
 has also been realised through the York Biomedical Research Institute helping to create
 academic and NHS clinical collaboration for our health researchers (Crouch, Lacey, Mason-
 Jones, Newton, Roman, Smith, Van Der Feltz-Cornelis).

 Early career researchers (ECRs)
 ECRs are vital to the success of health research at York. Our 23 UOA 2 ECRs (21.6 FTE), are
 embedded within established research groups where, in addition to formal training, they are
 supported and mentored to develop skills and expertise in grant submission, managing research
 projects and teams, publishing and research impact. In addition to the mechanisms described
 above, we commit time and resources to supporting their development and career progression
 including through conference attendance, external and internal training, research leave, and

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 career development mentorship for internal promotion. As an example of helping individuals to
 build research skills, we offer a developmental small research project scheme, which awards
 protected time for ECRs to undertake (mostly methodological) projects in their area of interest.
 Our probation approach includes mentoring (IES paragraphs 29) and we have embedded the
 Concordat principles into how we support the Career Development of Contract Research staff
 (IES paragraphs 27-28). Our research expectations include supporting teaching which is
 exemplified through our Research Integration and Career Support group supported by a senior
 nursing academics (Flemming, Galdas) and senior career researchers (Mdege, Tharmanathan).
 Our expectations also take account of probation periods with adjustment in terms of grants and
 outputs. Our research committees have oversight of the expectations and support processes.
 Research group leads and senior departmental staff oversee our proactive approach to career
 development and redeployment, which has been successful in retaining staff.

 We have benefited from the UoY Research Fellowship Programme which supports postdoctoral
 fellows and ECRs to develop their research careers at York and we have a strong fellowship
 support network. Heads of Department, research leads and our research officers encourage
 and support staff to pursue career fellowships from a range of funders (e.g., NIHR, ESRC,
 Wellcome and MRC), at all levels of seniority. These opportunities, advertised and promoted
 through our research groups, are allocated one-to-one support from a staff member with proven
 experience in securing and mentoring successful applications, and harness the experience and
 knowledge of our research leaders and previously successful applicants. Our commitment to
 supporting the continuity of careers means we encourage staff to move through different levels
 of fellowships (section 4). During successive awards we support and mentor staff to achieve
 independent status; and in turn encourage recruitment of the next generation of research
 fellows, doctoral students and research leaders. As an example, a current member of staff who
 was a PhD student in the last REF period (supervised by Siddiqi K), was appointed as a
 postdoctoral researcher in global health (2014) and then as a global health lecturer in 2018
 (Dogar). Her research contribution is evident in the studies underpinning impact where she
 played a major part in facilitating practice change in tobacco cessation behaviour interventions in
 Pakistan.

 Postgraduate Research Students
 We continue to prioritise provision of doctoral research supervision as evidenced by securing 59
 funded studentships over the period: 12 through external partnerships (e.g., White Rose and
 NHS Trusts, Born in Bradford project); 8 through doctoral fellowships (Wellcome, NIHR, MRC)
 and 39 funded by UOA 2 departments/UoY. We also secured 10 international doctoral
 studentships funded by cultural bureaus, embassies and education ministries in countries such
 as Chile, Indonesia, Kuwait, North America (Mexico), Peru, Saudi Arabia and Turkey.

 Our staff engage potential PGR students early in the application process which is helped by our
 web pages specifying research areas of interest with contact details. Our reputation for
 supervision of international PGR students means that on average around 40% of PhD students
 are from overseas. We have established a European Training Network (Improving Quality of
 Care in Europe), a collaboration between six European Universities funded by the EU Marie
 Skłodowska-Curie Actions Programme, to support research by PhD students.

 Research students are valued members of our research groups and their careers are supported
 in accordance with the Researcher Development Concordat. They are supervised and mentored
 to acquire their desired qualification whilst benefiting from - and contributing to - our research
 ethos (IES paragraphs 30 – 34). Our doctoral research and PhD supervision is operationalised
 through York Graduate Research School and Departmental Research Committees, both of
 which monitor supervision and progress. Integration of PGR students into the research culture is
 supported initially through their research group, but extending into wider interdisciplinary teams
 of staff and other PGRs. As members of our researchers’ forum, they are made welcome at
 seminars, discussions and social events. PGRs are represented on Athena Swan and EDI
 committees.


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our PGR students gain additional support and resources from our two faculties (Sciences and
 Social Sciences), aided by significant UoY investment in the Research Centre for Social
 Sciences (ReCSS), which provides dedicated office space and access to research infrastructure.
 Across UOA 2 we run regular seminars, where PGRs are encouraged and supported to present.
 As part of our initial and ongoing COVID-19 response the UoY emphasised that all PGR
 students should be supported to the same extent as our staff.

 Throughout the assessment period we recruited over 100 doctoral students, 15% of whom
 studied part time, aligning with our commitment to support professional development of NHS
 staff. Sixty-seven students were awarded PhDs in the assessment period.

 PhD success is underpinned by support and monitoring to aid progress and to help identify any
 students who are struggling, either because of the demands of their PhD, or as a consequence
 of other social/family situations. Student mental health is a priority and is supported by a Student
 Mental Health and Wellbeing Strategy and virtual Student Mental Health Hub launched in 2018.
 Students also have access to the UoY Open Door Team and to a designated departmental
 student welfare team in DoHS. Mental health awareness is instilled in our staff through their
 initial induction and thereafter through our research forums, mentoring scheme and PhD related
 meetings (e.g., thesis advisory and progression meetings), where students are given time to
 reflect and raise any challenges or problems. Doctoral supervision forms part of our
 departmental research expectations with staff time allocated to carry out supervision and
 associated support in the form of Thesis Advisory Panel and Progression meetings.
 Postgraduate supervision is promoted as a mutually beneficial partnership between the student
 and supervisor leading ultimately to PhD success with the added benefit of successful
 publications based on their doctoral studies (e.g., an average of 2 published papers per PhD
 student). Our students have won awards for their research for example ‘Best Paper published in
 the journal Heart in 2016’ by Valtorta (supervised by Gilbody, Kannan); Vitae 3MT® UoY winner
 and national semi-finalist in 2020 by Kidwai (supervised by Kanaan, Mdege, Siddiqi K); New
 Investigator Award (2019) British Association for Cardiovascular Prevention and Rehabilitation to
 Sever (supervised by Doherty, Golder).

 We are partners in The White Rose University Consortium, a strategic partnership between the
 Universities of Leeds, Sheffield and York, which includes support for Clinical Doctoral
 Fellowships for Nurses, Midwives and Allied-Health Professionals. We support training in
 research-related activities including an Academic Foundation Programme. To support topic-
 specific learning and broaden the learning experience, supervisors work with PGRs to create an
 appropriate package of level 7 PG modules.

 We also facilitate teaching and citizenship opportunities to help students acquire broader life
 skills and experiences; and to improve their opportunities for future employment. Supervision
 sessions regularly discuss these options, tailoring them to align with the individual’s needs,
 requirements of planned studies and future career aspirations. Employability is considered part
 of module learning outcomes and a feature of supervision. Further, students are offered career
 advice, interview support and CV writing by the UoY careers’ service, which also offers access
 to career fairs. Final destination statistics for UOA 2 indicate that research students report 86.7%
 positive alignment between PhD topic area and first job following graduation; and 96.7%
 employment at six months.

 York’s Research Student Community is run by researchers and research students. This ensures
 ‘state of the art’ communications including interactive forums and blogs alongside relevant news
 and information to support students through progression, thesis submission and viva voce
 preparations. PGR students in health research at York benefit from and contribute to our
 Researchers Forum, which spans UOA 2 staff and PGR students. We have also secured NIHR
 and Wellcome doctoral fellowships and subsequently obtained career and advanced fellowship
 for the same individuals (Golder, Fraser).



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality and diversity
 Our approach to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion is underpinned by UoY infrastructure and
 resources in the form of the Athena Swan, Researcher Development Concordat and Equality,
 Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) committees; all of which have health related researchers as
 committee members. UoY commitment to EDI is operationalised through four departments, three
 of which are led by women (Goddard, MacLeod, Stewart). Our approach is tailored through
 performance and development reviews overseen by our research committees, research leads
 and principal investigators, departmental management teams and heads of department. We
 work hard to create an inclusive culture that supports career development and promotion by
 offering opportunities to all. We invite expressions of interests, with supporting role specification,
 for all key committee appointments and we monitor equality in terms of applications and
 appointments.

 In concert with UoY research performance expectations (IES paragraph 22) our UOA 2 research
 expectations were developed through discussion and consultation with academic and research
 staff, Concordat Leads and the Contract Researchers Forum. This resulted in a proportionate
 and flexible approach, including adjustments to reflect individual circumstances.

 All UOA 2 departments hold either a Silver or Bronze Athena Swan award; and the principles of
 Athena Swan underpin our working practices. This is evident through inclusive staff membership
 of our departmental committees, working groups (e.g., Concordat, Athena Swan) and our
 transparent approach seen through our regular staff open forum and researchers’ forum. We
 take seriously our responsibilities under the UK Equality Act, 2010 and take positive action,
 through our committee memberships and expressions of interest, in respect of individual
 protected characteristics. Staff and PGR students have access to multifaith prayer rooms across
 the university, one of which is allocated within a UOA 2 department. Our approach remains
 vigilant to discrimination and disadvantage. We continually adapt our processes and promote
 inclusiveness through positive action. An example of this is seen through our EDI work by having
 an LGBTQ champion on our EDI committees and the Athena Swan Working Groups.

 We recognise that each individual researcher has different personal circumstances. We are
 committed to ensuring that everyone's needs are respected and considered. Throughout UOA 2,
 we offer and support flexible and remote working arrangements for our researchers, taking into
 account working practices and equipment requirements. Our approach to remote working has
 further advanced in response to the pandemic and social distancing rules, but equally we have
 supported researchers who wish to return to the workplace to do so safely, in accordance with
 government guidance, in order to optimise staff well-being. We also adapted our Domestic
 Abuse and Violence policy around safety at work and our researcher safety policies for
 interviews in response to COVID-19.

 We implement flexible policies and supportive working practices to ensure staff are able to
 develop their research careers (IES paragraph 24-25). This includes career breaks, to support
 researchers in work - respecting protected characteristics (IES paragraph 36) - and when staff
 return from periods of leave or ill-health, are managing long-term conditions or have caring
 responsibilities.

 Across our departments we regularly interrogate data of PI/CI participation in grant applications
 by individual characteristics. This enables us to track the effectiveness of our research
 expectations, Athena Swan and EDI action plans. We also have a ‘bank’ of successful
 promotion applications, which are shared with those considering promotion. There is a
 collection of ‘readiness for promotion’ data, following conversations with line managers.
 Guidance is developed for chairs of all recruitment panels setting out good practice and
 mitigation of unconscious bias. Training on equality and diversity is mandatory for all staff.

 One example of empowerment is through the work of our Contract Researchers’ Forum and
 their awareness raising event on tackling inequalities in securing research support, promotion
 and external funding. Forum events in 2019/2020 highlighted the benefits of adopting a proactive

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 approach to ‘Black Lives Matter’, which generated considerable interest and led to a shared aim
 to increase staff awareness of the biases that can pervade decision making. This led to an
 online discussion, jointly hosted by our EDI committee and the Forum, where individuals shared
 their experiences of bias and inequalities. The event was recorded to ensure staff had the
 opportunity to increase their awareness and adopt proactive approaches to tackling inequalities
 including monitoring to ensure the cultural sensitivity of their research grants. Core members of
 Our Black Lives Matter group and Chair-EDI committee are actively involved in shaping our
 research expectations.

 Throughout the first COVID-19 national lock down we used our open staff forums to check how
 staff were feeling about adjustments to working practices (i.e., home working). Supported by one
 of our mental health research professors (van der Feltz-Cornelis) we gained further knowledge
 of the extent of these challenges through a staff and student survey which raised awareness and
 helped inform our approach to staff wellbeing, which included the introduction of a range of
 flexibilities, especially the principle of ‘do what you can, when you can’ for those with caring
 responsibilities.

 Using UoY REF equality data the average number of outputs per researcher by 10 year
 incremental age categories from 30 to 69 years, was 2.2, 2.0, 2.6 and 2.5 per FTE staff. The
 same analysis by ‘declared disability’ compared to ‘no declared disability’ showed equal
 numbers of outputs between categories. Analysis demonstrated a slightly lower number of
 outputs per researcher for those identifying as belonging to Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic
 groups, when compared to staff where ethnicity was reported as ‘White’. There was a slightly
 lower number of outputs per female researcher, compared to males. Further equality analysis
 (considering age, disability, ethnicity and gender) of ‘predicted quality rating of outputs’ showed
 no significant differences in relation to protected characteristics. Our audit data is shared with
 the EDI committee and continues to inform strategy.

 Our research activities contribute to intellectual debates whilst actively seeking to identify
 disadvantage, reduce inequalities, and tackle discrimination through national awareness,
 implementation of policy and change in health and social care practices. Research
 collaborations and partnerships are distributed locally, nationally, regionally and globally. We
 maintain a network of academic institutions and researchers from the UK, Europe, Americas,
 Asia, Asia Pacific, Africa and the Middle East. These collaborations are equal, as we work
 together to develop and implement solution based interventions to improve health service policy,
 delivery and outcomes (section 1c).

 Over the REF period all staff involved in this submission underwent EDI training and adhered to
 the UoY Code of Practice. These staff took care in adhering to EDI principles when considering
 eligibility of staff (e.g. independent researcher status), output section/attribution and ICS
 inclusion and authorship. REF related communication with staff was carried out in accordance
 with the UoY Code of Practice. We also applied appropriate checks and balances in that all
 decisions around staff eligibility, outputs and ICS were done collectively through our UOA 2 REF
 team and the relevant Head of Department.




                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income summary
 Aided by the strategy and structures outlined in section 1 UOA 2 staff have, over the
 assessment period, been awarded research grants representing a total research income of
 £101,078,504, with an average of £14.4m per year. In 2019/20 research income was £18.14
 million, a £5.5 million increase compared with 2013/14 (figure 1) and accounting for 26% of all
 UoY research income (Figure 2).




 Figure 1. Research income in REF period               Figure 2. UOA 2 proportional research
 income.

 Infrastructure and facilities
 We have made (in-period) strategic appointments (section 2) across our three core areas of
 (HTA, Health Policy and Public Health) ensuring critical mass which has helped secure record
 levels of grant income. Examples of how our core research infrastructure has supported staff to
 sustain funding are highlighted below.

 Health Technology Assessment
 Building on a substantial and successful infrastructure, during this REF period our staff expertise
 and data analytical capacity has expanded (section 1 & 2) enabling us to bid successfully for two
 further NIHR Technology Assessment Review (TAR) awards; the latest (£6.4 million) funding our
 TAR programme of research to 2027 (Bojke, Dias, Eastwood, Hodgson, Palmer, Rothery,
 Soares, Simmonds, Stewart, Walker, Wade); two NIHR Cochrane Infrastructure awards, the
 latest (£950,500) funding the Cochrane Common Mental Disorders group (CCMD) from April
 2020 to 2025 (Churchill) and three NIHR Cochrane Programme grants (McGuire 2014 to 2022).

 We have continued to invest in senior leaders (Adamson, Rangan, Sheard) in YTU alongside
 enhanced IT software and modelling capacity allowing us to handle large and sometimes
 complex datasets. Collectively our staff and infrastructure has sustained a research programme
 that collectively generates £4m per annum, including notable trials such as: CASPER and
 CASPER PLUS; Collaborative care in screening positive elders with major depressive disorders
 (Adamson, Gilbody, Hewitt); SCIMITAR and SCIMITAR + Smoking cessation for people with
 severe mental illness (Gilbody, Hewitt, Parrot); NIHR PROFHER (1&2); and UK FROST surgical
 trials (Corbacho, Hewitt, McDaid, Rangan, Torgerson).

 Strategic investment in global health including five senior appointments (section 2); MoUs with
 international partners (section 4); and support for long term secondments working in and low-
 middle income countries has enabled our researchers to develop interventions and implement
 trials in LMICs. These include evaluations of varenicline among hookah smokers in South Asia
 (£144k - Kanaan, Siddiqi, K); brief motivational intervention to modify life-style behaviours to
 improve TB outcomes in South Africa (PROLIFE £132k - Dogar, Parrott, Siddiqi, K,); NIHR

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Global Health Research Group: Improving Outcomes in Mental and Physical Comorbidity and
 Developing Research Capacity (IMPACT) in South Asia (£7478k - Gilbody, Churchill, Hewitt,
 Jacobs, Siddiqi, N. & Siddiqi, K); Development of health opportunity costs in the global context
 (Revill, Suhrcke). Major funding for the Thanzi La Onse programme and the NIHR Global Health
 Econometrics and Economics Group was obtained in the first tranche of GCRF funding (£2.5m -
 Sculpher, Chalkley, Griffin, Revill, Walker and Woods).

 Other significant grants include two European Commission funded projects exploring the
 development of evaluation guidelines across Europe and personalised medicine (£778k; £577k,
 Iglesias, Manca); a project on the ‘wearable clinic’ (EPSRC, £456k Iglesias, Manca) and
 research on expert elicitation (MRC, £369k, Bojke, Soares).

 Health policy
 We have secured long term funding from DHSC/NIHR to support health policy research for over
 25 years. Policy research at York has grown substantially, reflecting the quality of our research
 outputs and partnerships. Testimony to the calibre of our infrastructure and staff expertise is the
 continued leadership of two NIHR Policy Research Units (PRUs): the NIHR PRU in economic
 methods of evaluation in health and social care interventions (EEPRU, 2010-2018, £3.1m) and
 (EEPRU 2018-2023, £2.5m) led by Sculpher; and the NIHR PRU in economics of health
 systems and interface with social care (ESCHRU 2010-2019, £5.8m and ESCHRU II 2019-2023,
 £3.1m) led by Mason. CRD (Sowden) co-leads the NIHR Policy Research Programme (PRP)
 Policy Reviews Facility to support national policy development and evaluation, in partnership
 with the EPPI Centre at UCL (2014-2020 £1.2m) with ongoing funding agreed until 2025 (1.4m).
 The NIHR PRP Fast Response Analysis Facility is co-led by Bloor in partnership with the King’s
 Fund (Partnership for Responsive Policy Analysis and Research (PREPARE - 2015-2020
 £1.25m, 2020-2025 £1.25m).

 UoY is a collaborator in the multi-institutional Policy Research Unit in Public Health (2019-2024)
 (Sculpher, Sowden) which builds on earlier success via the DHSC PRP funded Public Health
 Research Consortium (2005-2019, £1.7m).

 Our ability to carry out real world policy analyses is enhanced through our strategic investment in
 the form of secure data storage. Data linkage with NHS Digital and high performance computing
 allows us to better analyse complex data across linked datasets most notably through Clinical
 Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) and Hospital Episodes Statistics (HES) data.

 Since 2014 we have developed our global health policy research, with a particular focus on low
 and middle-income countries. This is a cross-cutting theme drawing on expertise from different
 research groups, through the University’s Interdisciplinary Global Development Centre (IGDC). It
 includes:
     ● Evaluation of the impact and value for money of population and system level
        interventions with partners in Brazil, Indonesia and South Africa NIHR Global Health
        Econometrics and Economics Group (2017-2021) (Suhrcke, Moreno-Serra, Chalkley);
     ● Investigating the consequences of long-term internal conflict in Colombia for health and
        the health system, providing evidence-based guidance for the design of policy pathways
        that address post-conflict health system needs. MRC/ESRC/DFID/Wellcome Trust (Joint
        Health Systems Research Initiative) (2018-21) (Moreno-Serra);
     ● The role of fiscal policy in improving health behaviour, mostly on sugar-sweetened
        beverage taxes in both high and LMICs (e.g., Peru, Chile, S Africa) (Suhrcke);
     ● Improving diet, reducing obesity and other chronic diseases, BBSRC, MRC (Newton);
     ● Defining and Implementing Novel Psychosocial Interventions, EU Horizon 2020 funds for
        Refugee Emergency (Churchill).




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Public Health
 Our public health research infrastructure has expanded through stronger partnerships and
 networks aided by strategic appointments in global public health (Elsey, Dogar, Suhrcke). Born
 in Bradford’s Better Start experimental Phase 2 birth cohort (£1,327m, Bloor, Bywater, Pickett,
 Richardson) and Innovation Hub (£989k, Pickett) are Big Lottery-funded projects leading to the
 evaluation of 20+ preventive interventions to improve health in pregnancy and the early years.
 The BiB infrastructure and partnership also underpin the public health research centred on
 families within the NIHR Yorkshire & Humber Applied Research Collaboration which builds on
 our research within the former Yorkshire CLAHRCs (Pickett, Bywater). Our Yorkshire-London
 based ActEarly collaboration, funded by the UK Prevention Research Partnership, focuses on
 system-wide change for children for the long-term prevention of chronic disease (Pickett,
 Cookson, Bywater) and innovative school-based screening and assessment programmes for
 autism (Wright). We were an active partner in the DHSC PRP Public Health Research
 Consortium until 2019 and continue this work through our current collaboration with the NIHR
 Public Health Policy Research Unit (Sowden, Sculpher, Griffin). We also have a strong research
 programme on food policy and food insecurity (Power, Pickett) within the York-led N8 Agrifood
 partnership and the Global Food Security-funded programme Integrating Knowledge for Food
 Systems Resilience (IKnowFood).

 We continue to optimise our infrastructure through networks which are built on collaborative
 expertise from long-standing relationships with policy makers and external bodies to undertake
 policy-relevant research (for example, see above Policy Research Unit in Public Health). Our
 health research environment and network of collaborators has enabled our success across
 NIHR programmes of research and benefitted from the extension of a Policy Reviews Facility in
 partnership with UCL (Sowden) re-tendered until 2025; long-term funding from the BHF from
 2014 to 2022 (Doherty); ESRC Improving health and reducing health inequalities for people with
 severe mental illness: the 'Closing the Gap' Network+ (Gilbody).

 UOA 2 researchers have also built on established collaborations and networks in LMICs. Those
 which have played a key part in our Global Challenges Research Funding (GCRF) success
 include: Tobacco control capacity programme MRC (Siddiqi K); NIHR Global Health: Improving
 Outcomes in Mental and Physical Comorbidity and Developing Research Capacity (IMPACT) in
 South Asia, (Gilbody); NIHR GCRF: GHE2 - The Economics and Econometrics of Global Health
 Systems, Programmes and Policies (Suhrcke); MRC GCRF: Thanzi la Onse (Health of All) and
 Frameworks and analysis to ensure value for money healthcare (Sculpher, Revill).

 Wider infrastructure supporting research and impact

 Our departments enjoy close working relationships with the UoY Research and Enterprise
 Team, who support strategic and operational aspects of research, knowledge transfer and
 impact. Grant development support has been significantly enhanced, including designated UoY
 Research Grants Operations team support to reduce the burden on our staff in respect of
 contracting, data sharing agreements and IP and legal matters. The combination of this support
 and the skills of our researchers has enabled us to achieve a 1 in 3 grant application success
 rates in recent years.

 UOA 2 researchers work across three large connected or adjacent buildings that incorporate the
 Alcuin Research Resource Centre (ARRC), which houses a dedicated suite of research facilities
 including research interview, focus group discussion rooms and a data analysis laboratory.
 ARRC houses a 150-seater modern auditorium and exclusive use of seminar rooms by research
 teams. We also benefit from the Research Centre for Social Sciences (ReCSS), which has
 facilities for research meetings, conferences and a well-used training suite. ReCSS facilitates
 interdisciplinary research across doctoral programmes and provides PhD students access, 24
 hours a day, to printing, photocopying and scanning facilities; and with lockers, kitchens and
 social space (see section 3) as well as providing desk space for up to 80 PhD students and NHS
 researchers. All PGR students benefit from the full suite of IT systems and software that includes
 qualitative and quantitative analysis systems supported by senior data analysts and academics.

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoY has invested in technology and IT infrastructure (IES paragraphs 10, 41) including a Data
 Safe Haven, Viking Research computing cluster and high-performance computing to enable
 complex analyses of extremely large datasets. Health research at York has benefitted from such
 investment, enabling us to link and analyse health datasets to address policy questions and
 evaluate the impact of health interventions. Projects using linked data include decision analysis
 and economic evaluation in cardiovascular disease (Walker, Manca, Sculpher, Palmer); tackling
 under-diagnosis in dementia (Mason, Goddard, Jacobs); quality of primary care for serious
 mental illness (Jacobs, Mason, Goddard); evaluating the impact of medical revalidation (Bloor,
 Gutacker); and analysing the impact of payment mechanisms on healthcare delivery (Gravelle,
 Doran, Gutacker, Jacobs, Chalkley). Through our annual courses in analysing patient level data,
 we have trained academics, policymakers and health professionals to understand and analyse
 administrative health data.

 Our operational infrastructure has enabled us to host clinical registries to evaluate and optimise
 clinical care including: Haematological Malignancy Research Network (Roman, Smith); Patient
 Case Management Information System for mental health services (PCMIS) (Gilbody and
 McMillan) and the BHF National Audit of Cardiac Rehabilitation (Doherty).

 Our clinical academic resources have benefited from a £5.8 million infrastructure investment as
 part of the expansion of our Medical School (HYMS), which has also helped develop new clinical
 research facilities with York Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.




                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations
 Our commitment to working in partnership with local, regional, national and international
 stakeholders is a key part of our research and impact success (figure 3). Our partnerships are
 built around a common recognition that research is most useful when done collaboratively with
 people and organisations with shared values. Utilising our infrastructure and facilities (section 3)
 health researchers at York are supported (section 2) to pursue positive and sustained
 stakeholder engagement and funding across all sectors of society. Examples of this, over the
 assessment period, are evident in our illustrated impact approach (Figure 3) and in our seven
 submitted ICS (see REF 3).




 Figure 3. Exemplar illustration of University of York health research impact approach.

 We collaborate widely with academic, practice and policy partners, and with patients, service
 users and the public, to ensure that our research combines excellence with relevance and
 impact. Our commitment to collaborative working is evidenced by over 80% of our research
 outputs and research grants involving national and international partners. Publication metrics
 show that 83.5% of our UOA 2 outputs were the product of national (43%) and international
 (40.5%) collaborations; and 95% of our UOA 2 outputs involved more than one author, with a
 mean Field-Weighted Citation Impact of 3.26.




                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Aligned with UoY strategy (IES paragraph 6,9,20), international partnerships are integral to our
 research. Analysis of research grant activity shows successful collaborations with nineteen
 European countries; thirteen Asian countries, eleven African countries; five South American
 countries; North America (Canada and America); Australia and New Zealand. Of 581 successful
 grant applications made during the assessment period 45% were internationally collaborative.

 Analysis of grant collaboration by sector shows the highest levels of collaboration with other
 universities (42.9%), followed closely by the NHS & charities combined (39.3%) (Figure 4).




                  Figure 4. Percentage of research grant collaboration by sector.

 Our success is underpinned by a commitment to collaboration and partnership including through
 hosting visiting researchers and senior fellows, and honorary fellows and professors (e.g., Elias
 Aboujaoude (psychiatry and behavioural sciences); Martin Bland (statistics); Tony Culyer (health
 economics); Keith Derbyshire (health economics); Sally Kinsey (paediatric haematology); Sam
 Oddie (neonatology); Mike Reed (surgery); John Wright (public health and epidemiology).

 Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society

 International contribution
 Across UOA 2 we work internationally with government agencies, NGOs and voluntary and
 community organisations. In Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal, we collaborate with health
 ministries to lead intervention development and successful trials in tackling TB. These include
 Action to Stop Smoking in Suspected Tuberculosis (ASSIST) (Siddiqi K) and impact work
 focusing on integrating and scaling-up smoking cessation within TB control programmes in
 Bangladesh, Nepal and Pakistan (Dogar, Elsey, Kannan, Parrott, Siddiqi K).

 We have developed and refined methods of economic evaluation for application to public health
 interventions in Low & Middle Income Countries (LMICs), most notably for health benefit
 package design and evaluation to promote health and reduce health inequalities in LMICs
 (Griffin, Revill, Sculpher, Walker).

 We have initiated MoUs between the UoY and the Health Services Academy (Islamabad,
 Pakistan); East, Central and Southern African Health Community; Makerere University School of
 Public Health (Kampala, Uganda); and the Ministry of Health (Uganda). One impact related
 example comes from our TB & Tobacco (Siddiqi K, Dogar) research, which through long-term
 funding (e.g., DFID UK AID, GCRF, HERD International, Wellcome and the UoY Centre for
 Future Health) and partnership working (see Figure 3), produced impact on tobacco cessation
 interventions in Pakistan.

 UOA 2 researchers have led wider education, training and capacity building activities. This
 includes creating the first knowledge hub in global health economics on the Global Health
 Network, funded by GCRF and in partnership with the East Central and Southern Africa Health

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Community (launched May 2020). The hub provides free education and training in health
 economics. We also have hosted annual (since 2015) health economics training for Overseas
 Development Institute Fellows before they take up their postings in Health Ministries and other
 organisations in LMICs.

 International collaborations and partnerships in evidence synthesis are exemplified by roles
 within Cochrane. We host the editorial base of CCMD (Churchill) working with more than 1200
 authors across 35 countries and in the assessment period have managed and supported the
 conduct and publication of 99 new or updated reviews in the Cochrane Library (12 of these co-
 authored by York researchers).

 We co-lead Cochrane Neonatal research through NIHR Cochrane Programme grants (McGuire),
 working with more than 1100 authors in over 62 countries. During the reporting period,
 Cochrane Neonatal has supported and published 196 new or updated systematic reviews (23 of
 these authored by York researchers).

 We provide methodological leadership through co-convenorship of four Cochrane methods
 groups: Adverse Events (Golder); IPD Meta-analysis (Stewart); Qualitative and Implementation
 (Flemming) and Statistical Methods (Simmonds). We co-authored four chapters of the most
 recent Cochrane Handbook (Flemming, Golder, Simmonds, Stewart), the MECIR Standards
 based on this (Churchill) and contributed to a reporting guideline on synthesis without meta-
 analysis funded through the Cochrane Methods Innovation Fund (Sowden). We have also led or
 been members of international groups developing PRISMA reporting guidance for several types
 of systematic review (Golder, Stewart) and tools for assessing risk of bias and conflicts of
 interest in reviews (Churchill, Stewart).

 We offer a suite of short training courses to national and international participants annually in
 economic evaluation methods and data analysis to professionals from health care, national HTA
 organisations, the pharmaceutical industry, as well as academics; training in IPD meta-analysis;
 the Cochrane risk of bias tool; qualitative evidence synthesis informing guideline development;
 and the evaluation of medical devices.

 National, regional and local contribution
 Nationally, we work collaboratively to support research and use of research evidence, within
 health, social care and third sector stakeholders. As well as working directly with governmental
 organisations and policy makers through our Policy Research Units, Policy Reviews Facility and
 Fast-response Analysis Facility (section 1b), we have worked with NHS England, for example,
 on QoF (Cookson, Doran) and quality indicators for CVD prevention services (Doherty - see
 REF3). Staff are members of NICE appraisal and highly specialised committees (12 staff during
 the assessment period), which recommend new drugs and technologies should be made
 available in the NHS in England and Wales. In addition, we provide methodological support and
 guidance to NICE through the NICE Decision Support Unit (Dias, Palmer).

 Our UOA 2 mental health researchers working with NHS colleagues, developed and embedded
 a national Patient Case Management Information System (PCMIS) in routine primary care
 practice (Gilbody, McMillan). Building on a Grow MedTech award in 2019 PCMIS has
 developed patient outcome feedback technology for 49 NHS Trusts in England utilised by over
 250,000 patients per year as part of Improving Access to Psychological Therapies (IAPT)
 services. PCMIS is now a subsidiary company of the University of York.

 Partnership with - and provision of - research leadership for third sector organisations include
 serving as Head of Research for Hospice UK (Flemming, seconded two days per week); and
 directorship (Fraser) and board membership (Bloor, Phillips) of the Martin House Research
 Centre, a partnership between Martin House Children’s Hospice, the University of York and
 University of Leeds Academic Unit of Palliative Care. The Equality Trust was founded by one of
 our professors (Pickett). We also work closely with the Mental Health Foundation (Churchill,
 Gilbody, McMillan).

                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Regional research collaborations include: the White Rose Consortium involving York, Sheffield
 and Leeds, which has a longstanding history of carrying out health related research projects that
 also benefits from shared supervision of PhD studentships; participation in the N8 Research
 Partnership, a collaboration of the eight most research-intensive universities in the North of
 England; and membership of the Northern Health Sciences Alliance, a collaboration bringing
 together ten universities, ten research-intensive NHS Trusts and four Academic Health Science
 Networks. York UOA2 staff also co-lead Rapid Evidence Synthesis Training across the N8
 AgriFood programme.

 York health research supports local decision making through the development of evaluation
 methods to inform resource allocation decisions in situations of limited and imperfect data,
 working with Hospital Trusts, Clinical Commissioning Groups and Local Authorities (Bojke,
 Richardson).

 Our research infrastructure and leadership extend across Yorkshire and the Humber. We are
 currently partners in two NIHR ARCs, the Yorkshire and the Humber ARC where York is
 responsible for three key research topics (mental health (Gilbody), health inequalities (Pickett)
 and health economics (Bojke); and the North East and North Cumbria ARC, where we contribute
 to two themes (Integrating Physical Health, Mental Health and Social Care (Churchill, Van Der
 Feltz-Cornelis); and Science of Knowledge Implementation and Mobilisation (Churchill), aiming
 to link priority themes across both ARCs. From 2014-2018 we led research themes within the
 CLAHRC delivered over a five year period of funding from NIHR. We are academic partners in
 Yorkshire and the Humber Academic Health Science Network and the Improvement Academy in
 partnership with the Bradford Institute for Health Research.

 The UoY Centre for Future Health (IES paragraph 43) has enabled innovative research across
 all disciplines whilst supporting external partnerships and advancing knowledge exchange. A
 core collaborative project, supported by the Centre for Future Health, included the development
 of a region-wide PPIE network utilising the expert knowledge of patients and carers with
 experience of NHS and social care, to ensure the continued relevance of our research.
 Following piloting in 2018 the network ‘Involvement@York’ was launched in January 2019. This
 is a collaboration project with York Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and Tees, Esk
 and Wear Valleys NHS Foundation Trust.

 Responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives

 Health research at York response to the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic
 In recognition of the impact of the first-wave of COVID-19 we prioritised research relating to
 health service delivery and the urgent need for rapid analysis and evidence reviews. Our
 response centred purposefully on existing research and clinical strengths, delivering evidence to
 support DHSC, NHSE and PHE decision-making, particularly through the PRUs, NIHR PRF and
 PREPARE. This included rapid research on post-ICU syndrome and COVID-19 (Bloor); risk of
 infection transmission from aerosol generating medical procedures, for the Independent High
 Risk Aerosol Generating Procedures Panel and DHSC (Sowden). Since March 2020, CRD
 working with UCL and LSHTM produced a living systematic map of COVID-19 research
 evidence (Sowden) and in March 2020 PROSPERO prioritised registration of COVID-19 reviews
 to support international efforts to understand the evidence pipeline and reduce duplication of
 effort (Stewart), also becoming a partner in the international COVID-END initiative.

 Our mental health researchers secured NIHR funding in May 2020 for a clinical trial (BASIL-C19)
 aimed at preventing and mitigating the onset of depression and loneliness among the most
 vulnerable in society as a result of the COVID-19 lockdown (Gilbody). This is the only mental
 health study registered as part of the NIHR Urgent Public Health COVID-19 Studies call.

 Policy focused research include mixed-methods research on ‘levelling up’ health and wellbeing
 in the face of inequalities produced by COVID-19 (Griffin); GCRF/Newton funded research

                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 investigating the impact of social distancing on violence against women in Brazil (BRAVE)
 (Moreno-Serra) and rapid reviews on palliative care as part of the Oxford COVID-19 Evidence
 Service (Flemming).

 We led rapid development and implementation of national guidelines for treating neutropenic
 sepsis in children with cancer; enabling more children to be treated on a 'virtual ward', reducing
 risk of COVID-19 infection and pressure on services, which is captured in one of our ICS (see
 REF 3 Morgan, Phillips, Stewart, Wade).

 At the request of NHS England and NHS Improvement we carried out first wave COVID-19
 analysis using BHF national registry data (hosted at UoY) quantifying the impact of cardiac
 rehabilitation service adaptation and NHS staff redeployment on service uptake (Doherty). We
 co-led a UK wide initiative, including training of NHS staff online, to enable older patients -
 shielding with heart failure- to exercise safely at home which, is captured in one of our ICS (see
 REF 3 Bojke, Doherty, Harrison and Hinde).

 Indicators of wider influence

 Journal editorial roles and refereeing
 UOA 2 submitted staff had senior editorial roles with the following journals during the REF
 period: British Journal of Psychiatry; Cancer Epidemiology; European Journal of Psychiatry;
 Frontiers in Psychiatry; International Journal of Mental Health and Deafness (Chief-Editor); NIHR
 Journals Library; Scottish Journal of Political Economy; Systematic Reviews (Co-Editor in Chief);
 Social Science & Medicine; Medical Decision Making; The Cochrane Library, Value in Health;
 Cogent Psychology; Health Economics and Health Policy. Staff also held associate editor roles
 with Archives of Disease in Childhood; British Medical Journal (BMJ); BioMed Central (BMC);
 Health Services Research; Bulletin of Economic Research; Ethnicity and Health; Maternal &
 Child Health Journal; Open Health Services and Policy Journal; Research Synthesis Methods;
 Systematic Reviews; The Cochrane Library BMJ Open; Journal of Health Economics; Journal of
 Health Services Research & Policy; Health Services Research; Value in Health The Cochrane
 Library; NIHR Journals Library, Archives Diseases in Childhood; Research Synthesis Methods.

 All staff submitted as part of this UOA 2 regularly referee for most of the above journals
 alongside other leading health related journals including: American Heart Journal; BMJ; Bulletin
 of Economic Research; Ethnicity and Health; JAMA; Journal of Health Economics and the
 Lancet.

 Participation in research funding committees
 Academy of Finland (Bloor); Asthma UK Research Review Funding Panel (Iglesias); Brain
 Tumour Charity 2015 (Howell); British Heart Foundation (Doherty); British Society of
 Haematology (Roman, Smith); Commonwealth Fund/Institute for Healthcare Improvement
 International Program for US; Health Care Delivery System Innovation, International Expert
 Panel (Doran); Cancer Research UK's Prevention and Population Research Committee (Smith);
 Definitive Intervention and Feasibility Awards Full Application review panel (Hewitt); GCRF
 Project (Newton); Global Alliance for Chronic Diseases - Cancer Prevention Panel (Siddiqi k);
 Health Foundation COVID-19 call expert panel (Goddard); Irish Cancer Society (Howell);
 Medical Research Foundation (Siddiqi); MRC's Cross-Board Cohort Advisory Group (Roman);
 MRC Public Health Intervention Panel (Elsey); MRC/FCDO African Research Leader scheme
 (Siddiqi K); NERC's environmental exposures and health initiative (Roman); Newton Fund
 (Newton); NIHR Academy pre-Doctoral Fellowship Panel (McDaid); NIHR Advanced Fellowships
 (Macleod); NIHR Clinical Scientist (Goddard); NIHR Clinical Trials Unit Standing Advisory
 Committee (Hewitt); NIHR Doctoral Fellowships (Manca (deputy chair), Iglesias); NIHR Public
 Health Research Commissioning Board (Ferguson (Programme Director), Sowden); NIHR
 Health Technology Assessment Commissioning Board (Hewitt, Gilbody, McGuire); NIHR PRP
 ‘Recovery, Renewal, Reset (Bloor (co-chair), Gutacker, Mason); NIHR Systematic Review
 Training Fellowships (Stewart); NIHR programme awards review panels (Gilbody, Glidewell,
 Churchill); NIHR Programme Grants for Applied Research (Sub-Committee D) (McDaid); NIHR

                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research for Patient Benefit Yorkshire and North East (McMIllan, Sheard); Research Council of
 Norway (Goddard); Royal Society Future Leaders – African Independent Research (FLAIR)
 Fellowship Committee: Biological Sciences (Pickett); Wellcome Trust Society and Bioethics
 Expert Panel (Goddard, Doran).

 Fellowships
 The support structures for fellowships described in section 2, have helped secure the 28
 externally funded competitive fellowships in the assessment period: BHF Postdoctoral Research
 Fellowship (Collins); NIHR Academic Clinical Fellowships (Cleminson, Hassan, Walsh); NIHR
 Clinical Lecturer in Paediatrics (Morgan); NIHR Systematic Review Fellowships (Beresford,
 Dale, Dietz, Walker, Walton); NIHR Pre-Doctoral Fellowships (Walker, Watson); NIHR Doctoral
 Fellowships (Bosanquet, Featherstone, Grasic, Jarvis, Moriarty, Santos, Valtorta); NIHR Post-
 doctoral Fellowships (Fraser, Golder, Valtorta); NIHR Senior Fellowships (Cookson, Fraser,
 Golder, Phillips) and Wellcome Senior Investigator Awards (Doran, Prady).

 Prizes
 UOA 2 staff (including ECRs) have won many national and international awards for the
 importance and content of their published work. These have been awarded by journals and by
 professional and academic bodies: BMJ, American Economic Journal, Value in Health, Journal
 of Integrated Care, Journal of Mental Health Policy and Economics, Value in Health, Medical
 Decision Making. Other prizes recognising the contributions made to academia and beyond,
 include awards for: outstanding contributions to cost-effectiveness analysis awarded by the
 Centre for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health, Tufts University, Boston; excellence in
 methods research on handling uncertainty to support decision-making and research prioritisation
 awarded by the International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research
 (ISPOR), and an ISPOR award for distinguished service for leadership of methods taskforce;
 Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health SPARKS Young Investigator of the Year, 2015,
 CHE was listed by Universities UK as one of the UK’s best breakthroughs for significant impact
 on people’s lives by making healthcare systems fairer and more efficient.

 Research councils and national and international committees
 In this assessment period UOA 2 staff have been active members of:

 National organisations: Association of Medical Research Charities Chair; Health Foundation
 Efficiency Research advisory group Chair; High Pay Commission and Living Wage Commission;
 Irish Health Research Board; Lancet Commission on the Future of the NHS; Macmillan Cancer
 Support Research Advisory Panel; MRC Molecular and Cellular Medicine Board; MRC
 Population Health Sciences Group; NICE Technology Appraisal and Highly Specialised
 Technology Committees; NICE Methods Committees; NICE clinical guidance and topic based
 committees; NICE Public Health Advisory Committee, NHS Digital Board; NHS England Health
 Inequalities Delivery Group; NHSE&I National Strategic Nursing Research Advisory Board;
 Public Health Research Consortium; Royal College of Obstetrics and Gynaecology Academic
 Board and Council; Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health Advisory Committee; Strategic
 Skills Fellowship panel; The Children’s Society; WHO Panel on Research into Traditional
 Medicine; UNICEF UK.

 International organisations: Advisory Group for the National Collaborating Centre for Methods
 and Tools, Public Health Agency of Canada; Bergen Centre for Ethics and Priority Setting;
 Centre for Evidence based Medicine Odense Advisory Board East, Central and Southern Africa
 (ECSA) Health Economics Community of Practice, lead external technical advisor; European
 Training Network - Improving Quality of Care in Europe (IQCE); International Network on the
 Economics of Mental Wellbeing; University of Twente (NL); International Scientific Advisory
 Board of the Graduate School of Health Economics and Management at Catholic University,
 Rome, Italy; ISRCTN Advisory Group; Luxembourg Institute of Health; MatchNet, a national
 research network funded by the MRC-led Prevention Research Partnership; Prioritarianism in
 Practice, an international research network; NHS England Independent Assurance Panel for
 Clinical Services; Society for Research Synthesis Methods; Systematic Review Data Repository

                                                                                         Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Governance Board; WHO: Coordinating qualitative evidence synthesis informing guideline
 development for complex interventions; WHO European Observatory on Health Systems and
 Policy and World Psychiatric Association Section on Mental Health Economics.

 Invited keynotes, lectures and conference chair roles
 Our staff are regularly invited to deliver keynote lectures and chair panels for academic and
 clinical conferences and are actively supported to do so. Some leading examples include; British
 Embassy: Japan-UK Symposium on Health Economics, Japan, Jan 2014; EuroPrevent 2018;
 First International Summit on Interventional Pharmacoeconomics, US, June 2020; HTA Asia Link
 Conference, Thailand, 2018; British Association of Perinatal Medicine 2019, UK Nicotine and
 Smoking Cessation Conference in 2014; School of Public Health, University of Michigan, 2017;
 British Society of Neuro-radiologists Annual Meeting, 2016; International Diabetes Federation
 conference, South Korea, 2020, Peruvian Ministry of Health, Peru, June 2020; WHO,
 Switzerland, 2016.




                                                                                         Page 24
