Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Oxford Brookes University

 Unit of Assessment: 28 History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 N.B. Bailey submitted to REF2014 is now Begiato.

 Unit Context and Structure
 History at Oxford Brookes has a long-standing reputation for excellence, and we have continued
 to build on this through our ground-breaking research. We work on a broad range of themes,
 including the histories of race, religion, crime, emotions, and gender, domestic and international
 governance and policy development. Covering the early modern to present day, researchers
 range widely in geographical terms, spanning the U.S., Russia, Japan, Eastern Europe, Germany,
 Italy and India, as well as Britain and Ireland. We operate at the cutting-edge of disciplinary
 developments, with skills in a combination of empirical and theoretical approaches, and qualitative
 and quantitative methodologies. Our themes engage policy makers and our researchers regularly
 reach wider audiences beyond academia through conferences, exhibitions, podcasts, blogs,
 media, and consultancy. The strategy since REF2014 has been to deepen and widen our
 expertise through investment in staffing and encouraging a collegiate and nurturing environment;
 as a result, our production of monographs has increased as have PhD student completions.

 The Unit consists of six research clusters: History of Crime; History of Art and Visual Culture;
 History of the Family and of Emotions; Medicine, Health, and Society; Public Policy and
 International Relations, and Religion and Belief. There are also two major research centres:
 Oxford Centre for Methodism and Church History (OCMCH); Centre for Medical Humanities
 (CMH). Both clusters and centres facilitate collaboration and foster impact and public
 engagement. Most of the UoA staff are in the School of History, Philosophy and Culture in the
 Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences. Other historians are based in English and Modern
 Languages (Giraud, Lobreglio) and the Oxford Brookes Business School (Datta, Iordanou).

 The History of Crime cluster includes Guiney, Kilday, Nash, Watson and West and explores
 law, deviance, and dissidence. Kilday is editor of a monograph series, The History of Crime,
 Deviance and Punishment (Bloomsbury); seven volumes have been published to date, and three
 more are in press. Kilday’s own monograph challenges the myth of the ‘violent North’ in the
 historiography of crime in Scotland. With Nash, she has published a series of joint monographs
 using microhistories to explore wider issues in crime. Nash’s work on the crime of blasphemy has
 influenced public debate and was instrumental in the repeal of the Republic of Ireland’s blasphemy
 law in 2018 (ICS 1). In addition to her monograph on medico-legal practice in England and Wales
 (2020), Watson’s publications have covered poisoning and vitriol-throwing. In 2017 two historical
 criminologists were appointed to enrich this cluster: Guiney and West lead a joint seminar series
 and ran a workshop titled ‘Confronting the “Violence of the Archive”: Crime, Punishment, and the
 Modern State’ (May 2019). Guiney’s monograph traces the early release for prisoners in Britain
 between the 1960s and 1990s. Researchers from other clusters also contribute to this area.
 Begiato’s co-edited volume, Law, Lawyers and Litigants in Early Modern England (CUP, 2019)
 brought together notable legal scholars such as David Sugarman (Lancaster) and Michael Lobban
 (LSE).

 Art historians, with a strongly historical emphasis in their research, form the cluster History of Art
 and Visual Culture. Craske’s monograph is a major reassessment of the career of Joseph Wright
 of Derby (Yale, 2020). Allington-Wood, Craske, Darling, Mann, O’Neill and Payne have a
 shared interest in exhibitions, enabling their research to have an impact beyond academia.
 Significant exhibitions include: Allington-Wood: co-curator of ‘Edward Allington: Things Unseen’
 (Leeds Art Gallery, October 2019–January 2020); Darling: ‘AA Women in Architecture 1917–
 2017’ (Architectural Association, London, 2017); Payne: ‘Fire: Flashes to Ashes in British Art,
 1692–2019’ (Royal West of England Academy, Bristol, 2019) (one of the six exhibitions curated

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by Payne referenced in ICS 2); O’Neill: ‘Modern Citizens: Myths and Realities’ (Penlee House
 Gallery Museum, Penzance, 2014), based on her doctoral research at Brookes on paintings of
 fishing and fisherfolk in late nineteenth-century Cornwall. Research collaborations include
 Craske’s essay for Payne’s exhibition catalogue Air: Visualising the Invisible in British Art, 1768–
 2017 (Sansom and Company, 2017).

 The History of the Family and of Emotions cluster includes Begiato, Holloway, Levene and
 Stevens Crawshaw, now moving to work on space, emotions and material culture. Begiato
 followed up her earlier publications on marriage and parenting with a monograph reassessing the
 role of bodies, emotions and material culture in constructing manliness in Britain (2020). She
 collaborated with Gibson on a monograph exploring the Church of England’s stance on sex and
 sexuality. In addition, she co-edited two collections of essays on military and naval masculinities:
 Martial Masculinities: Experiencing and Imagining the Military in the long Nineteenth Century,
 (MUP, 2019) and a forthcoming volume from a 2016 conference on ‘Maritime Masculinities’.
 Levene’s book on Jewish family households in nineteenth-century cities has developed out of her
 earlier research on the children of the poor. Holloway, appointed to enrich this cluster, published
 her first monograph, The Game of Love in Georgian England (OUP) in 2019.

 Medicine, Health and Society brings together the work of Quirke, Turda, and Weindling. They
 contributed to the edited volume, Healthcare in Private and Public from the Early Modern Period
 to 2000 (Routledge, 2015) with other historians from this UoA: Crook, O’Hara, Levene and
 Watson. Quirke’s research on pharmaceuticals includes her article on tamoxifen, published in
 Frontiers in Pharmacology. Giraud’s article focusses on hygiene and its literary representation.
 Weindling has published widely on Nazi medical experiments, and medical refugees from
 Nazism. With collaborators in other countries, and Brookes-based researchers, Weindling
 developed a comprehensive database of victims of Nazi medical experiments with 27,000 victims’
 biographies. It includes a provenance analysis of the Max Planck Society’s collections of brain
 specimens, identifying Nazi victims, and documenting subsequent scientific use and disposal. His
 book drawing on this database, Victims and Survivors of Nazi Human Experiments (2014), was a
 finalist for the 2015 Yad Vashem Book Prize. Weindling’s other research databases include 6221
 refugees in health care (1930–1946); and c.4000 children registered in Vienna (1938–1939) for
 the Kindertransport to the UK.

 The Modern Political and International History cluster links the work of Crook, Iordanou,
 Landis, Leary, LoBreglio, O’Hara, Robb, Scriven (and initially Cooper). It spans a broad
 chronological period, beginning with Iordanou’s monograph establishing the roots of modern
 surveillance systems in Renaissance Venice. Crook and O’Hara have produced substantial
 studies on, respectively, Victorian public health and the politics of water in twentieth-century
 Britain. Cooper and Robb founded the International History and Grand Strategy Group in 2014,
 which holds events with distinguished outside speakers. At its launch Charles Powell (Margaret
 Thatcher’s foreign policy adviser) lectured on Anglo-American relations during the 1980s.
 Subsequent lectures and roundtable discussions included Sir David Omand (former Director of
 GCHQ) and Sean Donlon (Ireland's former Ambassador to the U.S.). Several symposia brought
 former U.S. Congresspersons to Oxford Brookes as a part of the ‘Congress to Campus’ initiative
 in conjunction with the Eccles centre at the British Library.

 Crook and O’Hara have jointly organised interdisciplinary conferences and workshops that
 include policy-makers. For example, ‘Digital Democracy in Britain: Big Data, Social Media and the
 Open Society’ symposium (June 2019), with colleagues from Social Sciences. Contributors
 included representatives from the Electoral Reform Society, Ipsos-Mori and Open Democracy-
 UK, along with our local MP, Anneliese Dodds. O’Hara works with the Tony Blair Institute for
 Global Change and his research reaches a wide audience through political journalism and social
 media. Beverton was appointed in 2019 to strengthen our expertise in American history. Her
 article on Mexican War veterans in post-Civil War America complements Robb’s research. His
 work on twentieth-century diplomatic relations resulted in two monographs in this REF cycle.
 Research Fellows Leary and Scriven published major monographs on, respectively, the Irish
 border and the Chartist movement, broadening the reach of this group’s research.

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Religion and Belief cluster encompasses Dillinger, Gibson, Nash and Spicer. Nash edits
 the Palgrave book series, Histories of the Sacred and Secular, 1700–2000; Gibson is on the
 editorial board. Nash’s work on blasphemy intersects with the history of crime (ICS 1). Dillinger
 edited the Routledge History of Witchcraft, an interdisciplinary collection of essays by scholars
 (including Nash) from 13 countries. His research reaches a wide audience, since he is academic
 adviser to a bestselling historical novelist, Deanna Zinssmeister, and regularly gives lectures to
 non-academic audiences on popular beliefs such as dragons, witches and ghosts. Spicer
 researches on the socio-cultural aspects of the Reformation, including church architecture,
 material culture of worship and sacred space.

 Boulter, Datta and O’Brien’s research in intellectual history has synergies with this group.
 O’Brien founded the Oxford Hume Forum. It has held five workshops per year since 2012, and
 the annual Oxford Brookes International Hume Conference. He also runs the Oxford branch of the
 Royal Institute of Philosophy, which organises five public lectures a year. The cross-fertilisation of
 our research clusters is demonstrated by Gibson, O’Brien and Turda’s edited volume, Teleology
 and Modernity (Routledge, 2019).

 The Oxford Centre for Methodism and Church History (OCMCH), funded by the Westminster
 College Oxford Trust (see below) and led by Gibson, has a full programme of lectures,
 conferences (including an annual Ecclesiastical History Colloquium) and seminars, often held in
 collaboration with other organisations. The Methodist Studies seminar, for example, is held jointly
 with the universities of Durham, Cambridge and Manchester. The Journal of Religious History,
 Literature and Culture (published by University of Wales Press) has its home here, as does the
 Routledge Methodist Studies Monograph series. The Centre also publishes Wesley and Methodist
 Studies, in collaboration with the Manchester Wesley Research Centre. Forsaith’s monograph on
 the portraits of John Wesley has added an interdisciplinary strand to the Centre’s work. OCMCH
 regularly hosts visiting research fellows: in 2017–18 these included scholars from the University
 of Tulsa, University of Sassari and the Einaudi Foundation, Italy. OCMCH also fosters doctoral
 research with six research students in 2018–19, working on topics ranging from patterns of
 patronage in eighteenth-century York to the Welsh evangelical revival of 1904–5.

 The Centre for Medical Humanities (CMH) is led by Turda, a pioneer of the comparative study
 of eugenics in eastern Europe. It has a programme of interdisciplinary and international workshops
 and seminars, bringing together researchers from across the university, including colleagues in
 Anthropology, Drama, Law, Life Sciences and Social Sciences. Its subgroup, the History of Race
 and Eugenics (established in 2006), maintains contact with researchers in 19 countries (including
 Australia, Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Hungary, Italy, U.S). It helps train the Centre’s graduate
 students with Georgescu, Merricks and now Ross Brooks serving as Directors. CMH
 collaborates with CEU Press (Budapest and New York) on a book series Studies in the History of
 Medicine. Twelve books have been published to date, including Georgescu’s The Eugenic
 Fortress (2016). Recent CMH workshops and conferences include ‘Back to the Future: Medical
 Humanities' Contribution to the Education and Training of Mental Health Professionals’ (2017) and
 ‘What’s Sex Got to Do with It? Gender, Sexuality & Eugenics’ (2018). Currently there are six
 research students: three enrolled in our doctoral programme and three co-supervised by Turda in
 Romania and Italy. Their research relates to Turda’s interests in the history of eugenics, evolution,
 Darwinism, anthropology and biopolitics.

 Cross-disciplinary Work

 Our particular strengths in British social, political and art history have led to cross-disciplinary work
 across the University. Holloway, for example, ran a seminar on the history of the emotions with
 Ingrid Medby in Social Sciences. In 2018 Crook worked with the Modern Political and International
 History cluster, Barrie Axford and Ricco Isaacs in Social Sciences, and the Research Centre for
 Global Politics Economy and Society, to organise a symposium on ‘Populism 2.0’. Cross-
 disciplinary collaboration also extends beyond British history. In 2019 Stevens Crawshaw co-
 organised the annual Venetian Seminar at Brookes with Iordanou. Collaboration between O’Hara

                                                                                                   Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Brownill (School of the Built Environment) resulted in an article (output 185744332), which
 was awarded the 2015/16 International Planning History Society/Planning Perspectives Paper
 Prize. It led to a successful AHRC grant application titled ‘Spaces of Hope. The Hidden History of
 Community Led Planning’ (£604,638) with O’Hara as a co-investigator.

 The university’s new interdisciplinary research networks provide further opportunities for historians
 to develop their work in conjunction with colleagues across the institution. The ‘Inclusion, Diversity
 and Gender’ network, for example, has clear synergies with Begiato’s research and the Centre
 for Medical Humanities. Spicer is on the steering committee for the ‘Migration and Refugees’
 network.

 Research and Impact Strategy

 The future strategy outlined in REF2014 was to sustain and enhance our international research
 strengths by

     ●   Retaining core staff, strategically replacing those leaving
     ●   Intensifying the impact of research clusters in and beyond our disciplines
     ●   Continuing to strengthen the career development of our research students and ECRs,
         through protected research time and training
     ●   Developing national and international research linkages
     ●   Ensuring the publication of international and world-leading quality research

 We have achieved the first of these objectives by creating a culture in which research careers
 flourish. As a result, our staffing statistics demonstrate a high level of staff retention over the REF
 cycle: 21 of the staff submitted in 2014 are submitted again to this REF. We have made strategic
 appointments of ECRs and Research Fellows to replace staff who have left the institution or
 retired, using these appointments to strengthen and expand our research clusters, as described
 below.

 The UoA has invested in training for public engagement and impact. All our researchers attended
 a training session with Fast Track Impact in 2016, and further training sessions on podcasting and
 working with the media in 2017. Also starting in 2017, the School facilitated the dissemination of
 research to a wider readership through its Cultural Thinking blog, encouraging most staff to
 contribute (https://www.brookes.ac.uk/hpc/blog/). The faculty’s ‘Think Human Festival’ (2018) was
 a further initiative which enabled staff to achieve an influence beyond academia. Begiato, Crook,
 Holloway, Kilday and Payne devised activities at the Ashmolean Museum and elsewhere which
 drew on their recent research to engage with local audiences. The expanded programme for
 ‘Think Human Festival’ (2020) also included input from historians, notably Begiato on masculinity.
 Staff are now invited to fill in details of their public engagement and impact activities in their annual
 Personal Research Plan, and impact is taken into consideration in workload allocations and
 applications for promotion.

 We have fulfilled our strategy of delivering on impact: the impact activities of the UoA have
 expanded significantly. Researchers who produced Impact Case Studies (ICS) for 2014 have
 intensified their work in this area. Nash, whose advisory work on blasphemy law was the subject
 of a 2014 ICS, played an important part in the repeal of the law in the Republic of Ireland in 2018
 (ICS 1), and has contributed to public debates on blasphemy by publishing a book and articles for
 a popular audience. Payne curated six exhibitions (ICS 2) compared to a single exhibition for her
 2014 case study. Awards totalling £12,000 from the university’s Central Research Fund (CRF)
 enabled Payne to work with institutions in developing activities around their exhibitions, thereby
 increasing their overall impact. The Royal West of England Academy, Bristol hosted conferences
 in 2014 and 2017 to discuss issues arising from the ‘Sea’ and ‘Air’ exhibitions. Similarly, CRF
 funding contributed to Study Days and workshops for families and teenagers at the Higgins
 Bedford, and to the production of a catalogue for ‘Dreams and Nightmares’ (2019). A series of
 exhibitions and events relating to Turda’s research on eugenics in Romania (ICS 3) were held in
 collaboration with the Romanian Academy of History, Municipal Museums of Bucharest and other

                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 institutions. These have influenced the development of educational curricula and led to the
 foundation of Centre for the Study of Racism and Eugenics. His research contributed to the
 Romanian Parliament passing anti-discrimination legislation relating to the country’s Roma
 population.

 O’Hara and Crook contributed to the development of policy debates, through their conference on
 digital democracy and O’Hara’s aforementioned work for the Tony Blair Institute. Weindling’s
 expertise on Nazi medical research led to an invitation to contribute to the Yad Vashem expert
 meeting on 14 May 2017 resulting in the Vienna Protocol on the handling of Jewish (and other)
 remains.

 Further UoA28 research impact can be seen from other exhibitions and public engagement.
 Quirke has represented ‘Modern History of Science, Technology and Medicine’ on English
 Heritage’s Blue Plaques Panel (London) since 2017. Darling was co-curator of a landmark
 exhibition at the Architectural Association in 2017 and is a member of the London Advisory
 Committee to Historic England. In 2019, she acted as consultant to Tate Britain for their spotlight
 display on the Bauhaus in 2019. Weindling curated ‘Science and Suffering: Victims and
 Perpetrators of Nazi Human Experimentation’ at the Wiener Library, London in 2017:
 (https://wienerholocaustlibrary.org/exhibition/science-and-suffering-victims-and-perpetrators-of-
 nazi-human-experimentation/). It was favourably reviewed in The Lancet. Iordanou was
 appointed as historical consultant and guest curator at the International Spy Museum in
 Washington DC. She designed a new permanent exhibition on Renaissance Venice as the
 progenitor of centrally organised intelligence operations. Several members of staff have
 disseminated their research through blogs. For example, Watson’s blog, ‘Legal History
 Miscellany’ (with Sara M. Butler and Krista Kesselring) includes posts on ‘Acid attacks in
 Nineteenth-century      Britain’   and     ‘Unsolved    Early    Modern      Murder    Mysteries’:
 https://legalhistorymiscellany.com/author/watsoncassie/.

 We have fulfilled our commitment to strengthen the career development of our research students
 and ECRs. Training for research students (see Section 2) has been expanded and restructured.
 For newly appointed ECRs there is a faculty mentoring scheme. They are fully supported in their
 research through being allocated the maximum hours for research as part of their workload plan.
 In addition, they are included in the call for applications for school research funding and support
 each semester.

 National and international collaborations (described in more detail in section 4) have continued to
 grow. Kilday, for example, has collaborated with historians of crime in Denmark, Holloway and
 Begiato work with scholars in Australia, and Weindling has strong links with institutions in
 Germany and Austria. Spicer is president of the interdisciplinary Sixteenth Century Society &
 Conference, and works with academics in Europe and the United States.

 We have ensured the publication of research of international and world leading quality. Staff have
 published a large number of monographs, articles and book chapters over the REF period. Of
 particular note are the following monographs: Begiato; Begiato & Gibson; Craske; Crook;
 Kilday; Levene; O’Hara; Robb; Turda; Watson; Weindling. They each represent the
 culmination of many years’ research while employed at Oxford Brookes. All the authors were part
 of our 2014REF submission. They are joined in our 2021 submission by ground-breaking books
 by newer appointments: Georgescu; Guiney; Holloway; Iordanou; Leary; Merricks; O’Neill;
 Scriven.

 Some research outputs have received wider recognition and were awarded prizes. Leary’s
 Unapproved Routes was awarded the Donald H. Murphy Prize for Distinguished first book by the
 American Conference for Irish Studies (2017). It was also shortlisted for the Royal Historical
 Society’s Whitfield Prize and Iordanou’s monograph for the society’s Gladstone Prize (2020).
 O’Hara’s article with Brownill won the 2015/16 International Planning History Society/Planning
 Perspectives Paper Prize and Spicer was joint winner of the 2020 Douglas Murray Prize for his
 article in Reformation & Renaissance Review (output 1857511823).

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Staff have deposited articles and book chapters in the institutional repository, RADAR. In addition,
 colleagues have been making data openly available as well as increasing public access to archival
 resources. Weindling’s biographical database of 27,000 victims of Nazi medical experiments will
 be sustained as a permanent reference resource by the German National Academy of Sciences
 Leopoldina. Some 100 interviews (‘The Thompson Tapes’) recorded for Weindling’s biography
 of John W. Thompson (2010) were upload in 2016 to YouTube. Kilday deposited the dataset,
 ‘Judicial Statistics relating to Scotland, 1805–1960’ (https://doi.org/10.24384/000546), which
 underpins her monograph Crime in Scotland. In 2018, OCMCH appointed a Public Engagement
 Officer (Reed) and, in 2019, a Digitisation and Collections Officer. These appointments have
 supported OCMCH’s programme of digitisation and public engagement. This includes the
 digitisation of 10,000 images of British Methodist Buildings (https://ocmch.wordpress.com/bmb/),
 which have been viewed over 355,000 times since January 2019. A further 180,000 digitised
 items, including over 2,000 Methodist Portrait Prints has been added. Resources from the
 university’s special collections relating to the History of Medicine and Science have been digitised.
 In November 2017, the Occupational Therapy archives and papers of Dorset House
 (https://radar.brookes.ac.uk/radar/s/dha) were made available and, in 2018, the ‘Medical Sciences
 Video Archive’ of interviews with 130 leading figures in clinical medicine and science
 (https://radar.brookes.ac.uk/radar/s/msva) (see below). It was digitised with the support of the
 Wellcome Trust.

 Since 2014 we have focused on (a) providing support for individual researchers and (b)
 encouraging collaboration between them. We have used the QR money devolved to the School
 to create two funds: History, Philosophy and Culture Research Fund and a Research Events Fund.
 These have supplemented research funding available through university and faculty schemes
 (described elsewhere). Staff have been able to bid to these funds twice a year, with upper limits
 of £750 for the Research Fund and £1,500 for the Events Fund. On average we have allocated a
 total of £20,000 annually to support these initiatives. In several years QR money has also been
 made available to research students, supplementing the monies already available to cover travel
 to archives and attendance at conferences. With these funds we have been able to offer targeted
 support that is linked to the production of high-quality publications or events

 We have been able to use our QR funding, along with grants from the Faculty Events Fund, to
 support a wide range of conferences, symposia, seminar series and workshops. Including, for
 example, ‘Maritime Masculinities, 1815–1940’ (December 2016); ‘Reproductive Rights and
 Wrongs: Fertility and Family in Historical Perspective’ (December 2016); ‘Breath, Flight and
 Atmosphere: the Theme of Air in British Culture’ (June 2017); ‘Populism 2.0’ (January 2018). The
 allocation of QR money has also demonstrated our commitment to these events and has been
 instrumental in securing external funding. This was the case with Darling’s conference in June
 2017, ‘Architecture, Citizenship, Space: British Architecture from the 1920s to the 1970s’, which
 won a large grant from the Paul Mellon Centre for Studies in British Art.

 Our devolved QR funds have also been used to finance archival research and support attendance
 at conferences in the UK and abroad so that colleagues can disseminate their research widely.
 For example, in 2018 it supported research trips to collections and repositories in Aberystwyth,
 Boston, Dorchester, Edinburgh, Kew, Mainz, Newcastle, The Hague, and Venice, and to enable
 colleagues to give papers at conferences in Birmingham, Budapest, Ghent, London, Lyon,
 Nevada, Prague, Rome, Stirling, and Utrecht. These funds for conference attendance have
 enabled colleagues to expand their research sources, disseminate their findings to international
 audiences and forge new partnerships (see section 4).

 We have also used devolved QR to appoint two research assistants who are themselves active
 researchers. Mann has assisted staff with such tasks as proofreading, bibliographies and image
 permissions, for example, for the monographs by Begiato, Craske and Holloway. O’Neill has
 worked with staff on their ICS, collecting evidence and giving advice on the writing of the narrative.



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To encourage collaboration and create a supportive research culture, we hold School Research
 Days twice a year, at which staff and research students present papers and have the chance to
 talk informally to one another about their projects.

 Future Strategy

 In the next period, we intend to strengthen the research profile and activities within this UoA. This
 will be achieved through continuing and developing the following approaches:

    ●   To diversify our sources of external funding. As noted in section 3, the school has been
        awarded research grants from foundations and UKRI funding agencies during the current
        REF cycle. Funding has also been secured from commercial organisations and other
        charitable bodies for historical research projects. While continuing to support grant
        applications to UKRI funders, colleagues will also be encouraged to explore alternative
        sources of research funding.
    ●   To continue to revitalise our staff base through the appointment of research-active ECRs
        when opportunities arise. This includes strengthening existing clusters of historical
        research but also working to develop further synergies and connections with other
        disciplines, as illustrated by O’Hara, across the university. This will be furthered by
        engagement with the university’s interdisciplinary research networks (see section 4).
    ●   To diversify our staff base and develop further areas of research expertise when
        opportunities arise. As the school prides itself on a research-based approach to teaching,
        this will be particularly important in the context of efforts to diversify the degree curriculum
        to reflect greater inclusivity and geographical reach. For example, in the current cycle,
        Beverton’s appointment has not only strengthened UoA’s research in American History
        but also engages with issues of race and slavery in the nineteenth-century United States.
    ●   To continue to support our impact activities for existing projects, those being currently
        undertaken in connection with research grants as well as developing new initiatives in the
        UoA. Wider public engagement and the development of these impact activities broadens
        and strengthens the school’s research base. Financial support will be provided through
        QR funding but colleagues will also be encouraged to apply to the university’s research
        excellence awards and, where appropriate, external funding to underpin this aspect of
        research.
    ●   To continue using QR funding to create a flexible and supportive environment, both for
        academic staff and research students. This will be achieved by providing financial support
        for both for research work (archival visits, reproduction and scanning costs, copyright fees
        etc.) and events (research days, seminar series, symposia). This will be in conjunction with
        encouraging applications for external or university funding for these activities.
    ●   To continue to use QR funding to provide regular periods of leave or teaching relief for
        researchers in the school to complete existing projects or to develop new initiatives and
        areas of research. These will continue to be awarded on a competitive basis but in a
        manner that fully engages with Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity issues.

 Besides the further development of these research initiatives, there are several research projects
 that are already well advanced. The monographs which are due to come out in the next REF cycle
 include Spicer’s book, War, Revolt and Sacred Space: Cambrai and the Southern Netherlands,
 c. 1566–1621 (Brill); Kilday and Nash’s Deviant Damsels: The Criminal Female in the Nineteenth
 Century (OUP). Future monographs under contract, include O’Hara’s New Labour, New Britain?
 The Blair Government and the Government of the United Kingdom (MUP, to be delivered in 2023)
 and Gibson has a contract for Samuel Wesley and the Crisis of Tory Piety, 1685–1720 (OUP).
 Stevens Crawshaw received a university Research Excellence Award to complete Cleaning Up
 Renaissance Italy in 2020–21 for Oxford University Press. Turda is also the general editor for A
 Cultural History of Race, a six-volume publication for Bloomsbury due in 2021. O’Hara has
 recently secured an AHRC grant (£803,711) for a new research project titled ‘In All Our Footsteps:
 Tracking, Mapping and Experiencing Rights of way in post-War Britain’.



                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 2. People

 Staffing Strategy

 Our staffing profile since 2014 has been consolidated and grown with a high level of staff retention
 and a strategic investment in ECRs and Research Fellows. Crossman, Ernst, Griffin and Lowry
 have retired. Continuing access to the proven expertise of Ernst and Griffin has been secured by
 their appointment to Emerita/Emeritus Professorships.

 Our recruitment policy has been to strengthen crucial areas of research with ECRs and Research
 Fellows. The ECRs in Criminology, Guiney and West, have been appointed on permanent
 contracts. Guiney brings his expertise on the history of parole to the history of crime cluster, while
 West’s interest in visual criminology adds a novel strand to the research of the art historians.
 Beverton and Allington-Wood have been appointed recently, strengthening our expertise in
 nineteenth-century American history and Renaissance Art, respectively. Beverton’s interests
 complement those of Robb, while Allington-Wood’s ground-breaking study of garden sculpture
 has affinities with Craske’s work on sculpture history and Payne’s on landscape painting.

 The university has invested in areas of research excellence through its Vice-Chancellor’s
 Research Fellowship scheme. The three awards (£526,129) made to History have been used to
 strengthen our expertise in social and cultural history and public policy. Holloway and Leary have
 been appointed on four-year contracts. Holloway’s work on the history of romantic love and
 emotional objects supports the interests of Begiato and Levene in family structures and the
 history of emotions. Leary’s publications on the Irish border augment the research of the public
 policy and international relations grouping. His work also has strong synergies with Nash’s
 successful impact activities relating to the repeal of Ireland’s blasphemy law. Our latest
 appointment, Scriven, adds a new dimension to our work on nineteenth-century British social,
 political and cultural history with his research on the moral politics of working-class radicalism. His
 research ties in with Crook’s interest in governance and Begiato’s on sexuality. These three
 appointments represent an investment in succession planning and sustainability. The fellows have
 very light teaching and administrative loads, the main purpose of their roles being to undertake
 research, publication and impact.

 In order to boost our overall research capacity, Weindling continues to be employed as a
 Research Professor (partly funded by the Max Planck Society), with minimal teaching and
 administrative responsibilities, leaving him free to pursue his high-level connections with research
 organisations in France, Germany and Austria (see Section 4).

 Reed’s contract as Public Engagement Officer has been amended to allow time for research, so
 that he can continue his work on the eighteenth-century Church of England. With a combination
 of central university funds, and our own devolved QR, we have been able to make research
 appointments for scholars who were already working with us in an administrative or research
 assistance capacity, and maintaining an active presence in our research culture since completing
 their PhDs: Georgescu, Merricks, Mann and O’Neill.

 Staff Development

 University, faculty and school funds have been used strategically to ensure that staff are given
 periods of dedicated research time. The School has used devolved QR funding to support an
 enhanced sabbatical scheme. Each year, all lecturers, whether full-time or fractional, temporary
 or permanent, are invited to apply for a semester without any teaching or administrative
 responsibilities. These sabbaticals are awarded competitively, according to the proposed
 outcomes and the time that has elapsed since the individual last had research leave. They are
 often timed strategically to help with the completion of a particular output, grant application, or
 impact-related event. For example, O’Hara used his sabbatical in 2014–15 to write The Politics of
 Water in Post War Britain (2017); Craske’s (2017–18) enabled him to complete his monograph
 Joseph Wright of Derby (2020). Robb’s sabbatical (2018–9) gave him time to check footnotes,

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 complete a bibliography and final edit for his monograph, Divided Allies: Security Cooperation in
 the Asia-Pacific, 1945–55 (2019). There is an expectation that all active researchers will be
 awarded sabbaticals, but the competitive scheme allows for a focused use of time, where projects
 are considered to be in an advanced state.

 Staff submitted to this UoA have also benefited from the CRF Research Excellence Awards. One
 of these awards (2016–17) financed a research assistant to work with Kilday in completing her
 monograph, Crime in Scotland. In 2017–18 Darling, Payne and Nash were all awarded funds to
 enable them to pursue public engagement and impact activities. Darling co-curated an exhibition
 celebrating the anniversary of the first female students at the Architectural Association, and
 organised related educational activities. Payne curated an exhibition, ‘A Walk in the Woods’ at the
 Higgins Bedford, and organised a conference on ‘Trees and Wellbeing: Past, Present and Future’
 (May 2018). Nash completed his book for a popular audience, Acts Against God. A Short History
 of Blasphemy (Reaktion Books, 2020).

 The OCMCH has provided targeted research leave during the assessment period to support work
 on religious issues. Staff who have benefited include Begiato (2014–15) Spicer (2017–18),
 Levene (2018–19) and Craske (2019–20). Spicer wrote a chapter of his monograph, War, Revolt
 and Sacred Space; Begiato worked on her co-authored monograph Sex and the Church. Levene
 used the time to establish her database of Jewish households in Britain, which has provided the
 basis for an article and a monograph.

 The Faculty Grants Panel (see section 3) organises regular training events, e.g. planning
 proposals, coping with resubmissions, and other topics. Some of these are targeted at particular
 groups of staff, for example ECRs, research students or professors. The panel also arranges visits
 from funders. In recent years we have had talks from representatives of the AHRC, ESRC,
 Leverhulme Trust, Wellcome Trust and British Academy. Such visits are usually followed by a
 spike in applications for the schemes concerned.

 Promotion to Reader and Professor is managed through a university-wide scheme with clear
 criteria. Colleagues are advised on the timing of promotion applications, usually during their
 annual PDR interviews. In this REF cycle, Begiato, O’Hara and Turda have been promoted to
 Professor, and Boulter, Iordanou, O’Brien and Watson have been promoted to Reader

 The university’s ‘First Three Years’ scheme for ECRs is complemented by the allocation of support
 for mentoring, training and funding at faculty level. Each ECR is eligible to apply for money for
 conference attendance, equipment, and, in their third year, teaching buyout to support well-
 defined research projects. At the end of each year they submit a report on their use of the funds.
 They are assigned a mentor within the School whose research interests closely align with their
 own, with Holloway, for example, working with Begiato, and West with Kilday. This is in addition
 to mentoring that is available through the university scheme, which matches ECRs with a mentor
 from a different academic area. Training sessions for ECRs are devised so that they complement
 the central university provision, covering such topics as project management.

 Training of research staff is managed at faculty and university level. Research-active staff
 complete a Personal Research Plan each year, indicating their plans for publications, grant
 applications, knowledge exchange and impact for the next three years. Research hours are
 allocated in the workload (a maximum of 640 out of 1600) according to the plans presented and
 the delivery on the previous year’s plan. This process is managed by the faculty’s Associate Dean
 for Knowledge Exchange in conjunction with Payne as Research Lead and Begiato as Head of
 School.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity

 Oxford Brookes has a Centre for Diversity Policy Research & Practice, and Stevens Crawshaw
 is the Faculty Lead for EDI (Equality, Diversity and Inclusion). The university Athena Swan
 committee includes Holloway and Darling; the UoA comes under the umbrella of the Faculty

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Athena Swan Bronze Award. Outside Brookes, Spicer is on the Royal Historical Society’s LGBT+
 working group. West delivered the University of Oxford 2020 Annual Disability Lecture, and is
 working with the Mitchell Library, Glasgow, on their accessibility for autistic readers.

 The practical application of EDI issues complements staff research interests in race, gender and
 marginalisation. This is reflected in Spicer and Stevens Crawshaw’s co-edited volume The Place
 of the Social Margins, 1350–1750 (Routledge, 2017). Turda’s academic research into eugenics
 in Eastern Europe is complemented by his editorship of the internal publication, Upstream, which
 publishes articles by current staff and students on issues of race. Several colleagues work on
 aspects of gender history, including Darling’s research on women architects and reformers.

 Of the 43 staff (by headcount) eligible for UoA28, 38 (88%) have significant responsibility and a
 workload allocation for research. This equates to 94% of the women in the unit, 85% of men and
 100% BAME. Overall, 42% of the 38 staff returned are women and 5% are from BAME
 backgrounds. There were no significant differences in the return attributable to any of the
 protected characteristics. Female professors occupy key roles in the School: Begiato is Head of
 School; Payne is Research Lead. Since July 2018, Kilday has been Pro-Vice Chancellor (Staff
 and Student Experience), after serving five years as Dean of the Faculty. Staff with young children
 – Crook, Dillinger, Levene, O’Hara, Stevens Crawshaw, Turda – have had flexible working
 arrangements to take into account their caring responsibilities. They have been able to combine
 a high level of research activity with involvement in childcare. The ‘teaching constraints’ scheme
 enables staff to organise their teaching week to facilitate caring responsibilities.

 Due attention has been paid to equality and diversity in developing the UoA’s submission. The
 unit has been fully compliant with Oxford Brookes Code of Practice for REF2021. During
 preparatory audits, equality impact assessments have been undertaken, and action taken to
 ensure equal distribution in the distribution of outputs across this submission. For example, in
 deciding which outputs to submit, we have undertaken a review to ensure a spread of work from
 younger and more established researchers, as well as a spread across genders.

 Research Students

 Our numbers of PhD completions have increased substantially, from 25 in REF2014 to 41 in the
 current cycle. This is thanks partly to our success in securing funding from the AHRC, the
 Wellcome Trust, and a central university scheme (see section 3). The research culture of the art
 historians in the unit has also benefited from the presence of two PhDs by Published Work,
 completed by J. Bryant, Keeper of Word and Image at the Victoria & Albert Museum, and B.
 Bryant, a renowned expert on the work of George Frederick Watts.

 In 2018–19, as chair of the faculty’s research degrees committee O’Hara oversaw the introduction
 of a new faculty-wide Doctoral Training Programme (DTP), which all our students are expected to
 take part in. The DTP combines two types or levels of event: faculty-wide sessions and DTP
 workshops, pitched at all our PGR students; and School/Departmental events which are more
 discipline specific, but which are advertised to and open to all students. This allows History PGRs
 to attend sessions in other disciplines (e.g. Education, Law, etc.) that may be relevant to their
 research. There are three faculty workshops each year which have addressed issues such as
 ‘diversity and inclusion in the academy’, social media (led by O’Hara) and careers. The subject
 level training within the DTP, overseen by the School PG Research Tutor (Crook), includes a
 training event and student-led symposium in each semester. The former includes talks on
 university PGR procedures but also advice on working with your supervisor; applying for jobs;
 public speaking; writing; teaching. Students are also encouraged, where appropriate, to take
 specialist research training offered by external bodies such as the Institute of Historical Research,
 the National Archives, the Courtauld Institute of Art. PGRs have taken advantage of Institute of
 Historical Research courses on visual sources for historians; the practice of oral history; and
 databases for historians. They can draw on the university’s financial support for research students
 in the faculty (£500) for such specialist training. In addition, there are three ‘shut up and write’
 sessions each semester lasting either a day or half-a-day.

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The student-led symposium each semester allows PGRs to present their work to their peers.
 Additionally, they are encouraged to contribute to the faculty research conference each year. The
 programme also includes a ‘three-minute thesis’ session for research students. At school level,
 PGRs are invited to the biennial Research Days, both as speakers and as members of the
 audience. They also contribute to specialised seminars such as the History of Art Forum (the latter
 also includes papers from former students). PGRs are also encouraged to participate in the
 conferences, seminars and workshops organised by the CMH, OCMCH (e.g. the bi-annual
 Methodist Studies Seminars) as well as the UoA research clusters.

 Research students play a full role in the research culture of the UoA through coordinating internal
 events and groups: for example, Ross Brooks succeeded Merricks as Director of the Race and
 Eugenics Group. Research students are supported in the organisation of external conferences.
 For example, in 2019 Robert Wilkes co-organised the Burne-Jones conference at the Ashmolean
 Museum, and ‘Pre-Raphaelite Sisters: Making Art’ at York. Liz Lutgendorff organised a conference
 at South Place Ethical Society, and published an article in the subsequent journal special issue.

 Staff stay in touch with their research students after completion, and encourage them to publish
 their research. Our PhD graduates have published a substantial number of monographs, in
 addition to articles and chapters. Clive Norris published a book with OUP: The Financing of John
 Wesley’s Methodism, c. 1740–1800 (2017). He is now co-editor of the journal, Wesley and
 Methodist Studies (Penn State University Press). Linda Ryan published her thesis with Routledge:
 Gender, Class and Piety: John Wesley and the Education of Children (2017). Sarah Prendergast
 has a contract with the University of Wales Press, for a book based on her thesis. Nash’s former
 PhD student, Susannah Wright, published Morality and Citizenship in English Schools: Secular
 Approaches, 1897–1944 (Palgrave Macmillan 2017). O’Hara’s earlier PhD student, George
 Gosling, is now a Senior Lecturer in History at the University of Wolverhampton and published
 Payment and Philanthropy in British Healthcare, 1918–48 (MUP, 2017). A monograph by another
 of O’Hara’s Brookes students, Ceci Flinn, was published in 2018: Rebuilding Britain’s Blitzed
 Cities: Hopeful Dreams, Stark Realities (Bloomsbury).

 In addition to university provision, we have been able to use some of our QR to finance additional
 activities undertaken by research students. For example, in 2017 we supported a trip to
 Washington DC so that Emily Stacey could interview journalists, a former speechwriter and a
 former Congressman, for her research on policy ideas in the 1970s.

 In summary, our thriving research culture, growing numbers of PhD students, organisation of
 flexible research clusters and investment in ECRs provide an excellent basis for sustainability in
 the longer term.
 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income

 Since 2014, we have maintained a high overall level of funding and have diversified our sources,
 with a total income for the cycle of c.£2,900,000. Grant applications have continued to be a
 mainstream activity, undertaken by a range of colleagues. Staff have focused more intensively on
 proposals with a good chance of success, as the funding landscape becomes more challenging.
 Our funding over the period includes several grants from the Wellcome and Leverhulme Trusts,
 as well as funding from the Humboldt Foundation, the Max Planck Society, a studentship from the
 AHRC and funding from the Paul Mellon Centre, the Templeton Foundation, the British Society
 for the History of Philosophy, the Institute of Historical Research and the Westminster College
 Oxford Trust.

 Landis was awarded a Leverhulme Research Fellowship to write a history of the Russian
 Revolution for Yale University Press, and Darling a Mid-Career Fellowship from the Paul Mellon
 Centre to write up her research on BBC Broadcasting House. A Wellcome Strategic Award (2007–
 14) was followed up by a Wellcome Programme Grant (2011–17) (£530,986). A volume,

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Healthcare in Private and Public from the Early Modern Period to 2000, edited by Weindling, was
 published in 2015, representing the successful completion of the outputs projected in the Strategic
 Award. The Programme Grant was entitled ‘Disputed Bodies: Narratives of Medical Research in
 Europe, the 1940s–2001’. Its outcomes include monographs by Turda and Weindling, and
 articles by Quirke, Turda and Weindling.

 In 2015 Weindling was awarded the prestigious Anneliese Maier Prize (€250,000) by the
 Humboldt Stiftung. He has organised workshops in Germany, all involving earlier career
 researchers, and an initial conference on brain sections has led to a c.€1,800,000 collaborative
 grant to research the provenance of specimens in terms of location, scientific exploitation and
 ultimate disposal. Weindling has also received funding from several other sources, including the
 Humboldt Foundation, the Max Planck Society, and the Austrian Zukunftsfonds. The Conference
 for Material Jewish Claims against Germany has funded a project on the causes of the infertility
 of female prisoners in Nazi concentration camps.

 The Westminster College Oxford Trust has awarded £285,000 rising to £303,000 per annum, over
 the period 2017–22, to support the work of the OCMCH, including the salaries of Gibson, Forsaith
 and Reed together with a centre administrator and collections officer. It also supports visiting
 fellows as well as teaching release for Brookes staff working on (broadly construed) religious
 themes (see section 1). It also supports the Centre’s aforementioned public engagement activities,
 the digitisation of collections and regular online exhibitions.

 The CMH has been awarded €12,000 by Farmec, the leading Romanian cosmetics manufacturer,
 for Turda to research ‘Rejuvenation, Gerontology and Senescence in Romania'. This will serve
 as the foundation for a larger grant application to the Wellcome Trust.

 O’Brien received two grants from the Templeton Foundation for workshops series: $8,600 for
 workshops on intellectual humility (through St Louis University, 2014–15) and £10,000 (through
 Oxford University) for a series on Special Divine Action (2015–16). Nash and Callum Brown
 (Glasgow) jointly obtained £78,000 from Humanists UK to write a History of the Humanist
 Movement in Britain.

 Begiato was successful in securing AHRC funding (£43,001) for her network, ‘Inheriting the
 Family’, to explore the role of emotion in explaining why some objects and stories (and not others)
 are transmitted across generations and from the private sphere of the family to public spaces like
 museums and archives. The network brings together academics from across the world, along with
 heritage, museum and family history professionals, and members of the public with an interest in
 family history and inheritance. The network involves academics from Adelaide, Leeds, Macquarie
 and Melbourne, and will be run in partnership with the Family History Centre, Leeds Central
 Library, and the State Library of South Australia.

 An AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award was granted in 2014. The student, Hilliam, has been
 supervised by Payne and Leino in collaboration with Campbell at the National Gallery, London.
 Two Wellcome Trust studentships were awarded to Freebody (2015) and Brooks (2017). We have
 also been successful in securing funding for research students from the university through the
 ‘150 Anniversary studentships’ scheme: Carpenter and Morra were funded in 2015; Wilkes and
 Kosta (2016); Dezeque (2019).

 Infrastructure and Facilities

 Oxford is an excellent base for a historian. In addition to the Brookes Library, academics and
 research students benefit from full access to the rich scholarly and archival resources of the
 Bodleian Library and other libraries of the colleges and faculties of the University of Oxford. A
 recent example of these resources being used within the UoA is Wilkes’ PhD on Frederic George
 Stephens, a member of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, whose papers are in the Bodleian.



                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 For specialist research the OCMCH offers the Wesley Historical Society Library, an important
 collection of published material and archives on British Methodism, including the papers of leading
 20th-century British Methodists. Oxford Brookes Special Collections includes the newly digitised
 ‘Medical Sciences Video Archive’ of interviews with prominent doctors and scientists from the UK
 and Australia. A significant resource for the history of modern medicine and oral history, it provides
 insights into the culture and practice of biomedical science in the second half of the 20th century.
 There is also the digitised ‘Dorset House Archive’ relating to the UK’s first school of Occupational
 Therapy, established in 1930.

 Grant applications from historians benefit from a very effective support system provided by the
 school, faculty and university. Advice and support are provided by the Faculty Grants Officer with
 the university’s RBDO office providing guidance on costings. All applications over £10,000 are
 reviewed by members of the interdisciplinary Faculty Grants Panel, which includes Darling,
 Spicer (vice chair) and Watson. Mentors from the panel with subject specific expertise work with
 the applicant on refining their applications, which are then reviewed by another member of the
 panel to ensure they are of sufficient quality. The Grant Panel’s chair, vice-chair and faculty
 research officers meet monthly to discuss grant applications and arrange events, such as visits
 from funding bodies. For example, while Spicer was acting chair (2016–18), there were visits from
 the Independent Social Research Foundation and the Wellcome Trust as well as smaller funding
 organisations of interest to historians and ECRs, such as the Marc Fitch Fund and Institute of
 Historical Research (Scouloudi Foundation). Research Lead (Payne) organised workshops for
 the school on impact and making large grant applications. The latter included internal and external
 speakers talking about their experiences of applying for and securing grants for large research
 projects from AHRC, ESRC, Wellcome, and the Templeton Foundation. Darling and Leino
 arranged a workshop exploring issues of Intellectual Property and working with the media and
 television, the speakers included Janina Ramirez.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

 There is a strong record of collaboration with HEIs and other organisations. The OCMCH
 organises biennial seminars in conjunction with the Wesleyan Research Centres in Cambridge,
 Durham and Manchester. The Centre’s annual Ecclesiastical History Colloquium is sponsored by
 Brigham Young University (Provo, Utah) with keynote papers from international speakers. The
 2019 Colloquium speakers came from the universities of Heidelberg, Harvard and Arizona State,
 as well as the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, D.C.

 UoA members also have strong research networks with international institutions that have led to
 publications. Weindling’s connections include the German National Academy of Sciences (of
 which he is a member), the Max Planck Society (which contributes 20% of his salary), the
 Humboldt Foundation, the University of Strasbourg, and the IFK Cultural Studies Institute. He has
 been a Senior Fellow of the Vienna Wiesenthal Institute and a Visiting Professor at La Sapienza
 University of Rome. He is currently collaborating with Wolfgang Maderthaner, Director of the
 Austrian National Archives, and Dr Wolgang Grisold of the Austrian Society of Neurology, on
 Austrian Neurology under National Socialism, and has produced an overview on German and
 Austrian ‘euthanasia’ of psychiatric patients for a volume published by the European Holocaust
 Research Infrastructure.

 Kilday’s Visiting Professorship at the National Archives in Denmark (2016–17) led to her Cultural
 Histories of Crime in Denmark 1500–2000 (Routledge). This edited collection was the first
 published on the history of crime in Denmark and stemmed from the collaboration of Danish
 academics and archivists. Iordanou held a Descartes Fellowship at the Netherlands Institute for
 Advanced Study in the Humanities and Social Sciences where she worked with scholars from
 Austria, Belgium, Germany, the Netherlands and the USA. Spicer was a visiting fellow at the
 Huntington Library, Los Angeles. Several publications have stemmed from Holloway’s
 collaboration with the scholars from the Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for the

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 History of Emotions: Feeling Things: Objects and Emotions through History (OUP, 2018), co-
 edited with Stephanie Downes (University of Melbourne) and Sarah Randles (University of
 Tasmania); a special issue Cultural and Social History (2019) on ‘Interrogating Romantic Love’.
 In another example of international collaboration, Watson’s blog is produced in collaboration with
 scholars from Ohio State University and Dalhousie University, Nova Scotia. As mentioned in
 Section 3, Begiato’s ‘Inheriting the Family’ network also involves scholars and institutions in
 Australia.

 Alongside these international collaborations, there have been notable research partnerships with
 UK-based scholars and institutions that have led to publications. These have included the
 monograph Divided Allies co-authored by Robb and David James Gill of the University of
 Nottingham. Nash works closely with Callum Brown, of the University of Glasgow, on histories of
 secularisation. Begiato’s Martial Masculinities: Experiencing and Imagining the Military in the
 Long Nineteenth Century (Cultural History of Modern War) (MUP, 2019) was co-edited with
 colleagues at Roehampton and the Royal College of Music and the aforementioned Law, Lawyers,
 and Litigants in Early Modern England (2019) with scholars at Durham University and the London
 School of Economics. A different form of academic collaboration is represented by Holloway’s
 position as co-convenor of the ‘British History in the Long Eighteenth Century’ seminar at the
 Institute for Historical Research, London.

 Staff regularly organise conferences at Oxford Brookes, many of which have been previously
 mentioned, as well as workshops and symposia, which lead in turn to publications. For example,
 Crook organised a conference on the history of corruption in January 2019 with Ian Cawood from
 Birmingham Newman. The resulting edited collection is under contract with Manchester University
 Press; a transcript of the round table appeared on the History and Policy website.

 Contributions to Society

 Nash’s ICS on blasphemy and Turda’s on race and eugenics (see section 1) illustrate aspects of
 the contribution made by UoA members to shaping public policy and encouraging wider
 understanding and learning through their academic work and its public engagement. Further
 contributions in this area include West’s collaboration with Lloyd (UoA18) in hosting an event for
 secondary school pupils relating to consent and media depictions of consent. Weindling is a
 longstanding Trustee of CARA, the academic refugee assistance organisation, and from 2016–21
 he supported the new Philipp Schwartz Initiative for Threatened Researchers, developed by the
 Humboldt Stiftung, as a member of its grants panel. In 2017, Griffin gave a presentation of his
 theory of radicalization (the basis of his ICS in the last REF) to the head, directors and counter-
 terrorism agents of Europol in The Hague.

 O’Hara’s research expertise in twentieth-century politics resulted in news briefings and newspaper
 articles on political parties and the general election (e.g. The Guardian) and subsequent public
 engagement through blogs on professional and commentary websites (including the New
 Statesman) covering contemporary political issues such as Brexit, Boris Johnson and the General
 Election. Griffin gave media interviews (LBC, BBC Radio (Oxford, Scotland, Wales)) and made
 television appearances speaking on issues such as the Islamic extremism, fascism, rise of
 populism, and terrorism.

 Besides Brookes’ ‘Think Human Festival’, research within the unit has been disseminated through
 media appearances. For example, in 2019, Kilday spoke on a forgotten murder in inter-war
 Scotland (Radio 3); Nash on shame (Radio 4); Begiato on the eighteenth-century ‘cult of
 maternity’ (Radio 4). Begiato also participated in the BBC television series ‘Who do you think you
 are?’ Dillinger has contributed to documentaries for German broadcasters on treasure hunting
 (ARD, SWR) and witchcraft (SWR) as well as being the anchor for a series of television
 programmes on alternative/counterfactual histories (Phoenix). Turda gave expert advice in a
 Channel 4 programme on eugenics in Britain as well as being interviewed on Romanian television.
 Payne’s research on trees prompted invitations to the Hay Festival (2017) and Cheltenham
 Literature Festival (2019).

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Contributions to the Research Community

 The UoA makes a strong contribution to the research base through editing academic journals and
 book series. The Journal of Religious History, Literature and Culture (University of Wales Press)
 edited by Gibson, and Wesley and Methodist Studies (Penn State University Press), until 2018
 also edited by Gibson, are based in the OCMCH. Nash has co-edited Cultural and Social History
 throughout this REF cycle, while Spicer edits Transactions of the Royal Historical Society and co-
 edits Studies in Church History. Alongside journals, several UoA members edit book series, which
 include the aforementioned Palgrave Histories of the Sacred and Secular (Nash); CEU Press
 Studies in the History of Medicine (Turda); Routledge Methodist Studies Series (Gibson).
 Bloomsbury’s History of Crime, Deviance and Punishment series (Kilday), specifically helps
 doctoral students publish and begin their academic careers.

 A further contribution is made through the leadership roles in academic organisations. Spicer, for
 example, is a Literary Director of the Royal Historical Society, on the Ecclesiastical History
 Society’s governing committee, and in 2020 became the first President of the Sixteenth Century
 Society & Conference from outside North America. Weindling holds crucial positions in
 organisations in France, Germany and Austria. From 2017 to 2020, he was Co-President of the
 Université de Strasbourg commission on the Medical Faculty of the Reich University Strassburg
 under National Socialism.

 Recognition of UoA expertise has led to regular invitations to deliver lectures and keynote papers
 in the UK and internationally. Crook, for example, spoke in Vienna and Los Angeles in 2018 and
 2019. Weindling gave lectures in Berlin, Frankfurt, Fribourg, Jena, Linz, Rome, Strasbourg
 Tacoma, and Vienna. Stevens Crawshaw was invited to speak at events in Amsterdam, Dublin
 and Rome. Iordanou gave guest lectures at the Universities of Amsterdam, East Anglia,
 Edinburgh, Graz, Tübingen, and Utrecht. O’Brien delivered keynote lectures in Aviero (Portugal),
 Freiburg, and Prague; he was a Visiting Researcher at Porto and Valencia Universities. Nash
 gave keynotes in Lisbon, Mainz and Umeå (Sweden). Gibson held visiting professorships at the
 universities of Clermont Auvergne (France) and Sassari (Italy); he was a plenary speaker at
 conferences in Halle-Wittenberg and Montreal. Mann was invited to give the McDougall Lecture
 at the Courtauld Institute in 2017, in recognition of her publications on Burne-Jones in the
 Burlington Magazine.

 Staff review applications for a wide range of funding bodies including the AHRC (Begiato, Nash
 and Spicer were on the Peer Review College); American Philosophical Society; British Academy;
 Carnegie Trust; Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft; ESRC; Fonds Wetenschappelijk
 Ondoerzoek – Vlaanderen (Belgium) (Spicer was on the expert panel 2014–20); Fulbright
 Commission; Historic England; Irish Research Council; Leverhulme Trust; Marc Fitch Fund, and
 the Wellcome Trust.

 They act as peer reviewers for a large number of journals, including the American Historical
 Review, Art History, British Art Journal, British Journal for the History of Science, British Journal
 for the History of Philosophy, Cultural and Social History, Eighteenth-Century Studies, English
 Historical Review, Gender Studies, International History Review, Historical Journal, Journal of
 British Studies, Journal of Contemporary History, Journal of Ecclesiastical History, Journal of
 Legal History, Journal of Transatlantic Studies, Journal for Eighteenth-Century Studies, Law,
 Crime and History, International Journal of the Humanities, Nineteenth-century Gender Studies,
 Philosophica, Philosophical Quarterly, Religious Studies, Sculpture Journal, Social History of
 Medicine, Sophia, Women’s History Review.

 They have reviewed book manuscripts for the following publishers:
 Ashgate, Auckland University Press, Berghahn, Bloomsbury Academic, Brill, Cambridge
 University Press, De Gruyter, Lexington Books, Manchester University Press, Oneworld, Oxford
 University Press, Palgrave, Pennsylvania University Press, Polity, Routledge, University of Wales
 Press, Wiley Blackwell, Yale University Press.

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                          Page 16
