Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Wales Trinity Saint David

 Unit of Assessment: 26

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Centre for Advanced Welsh and Celtic Studies (CAWCS) was first established by the
 University of Wales (UW) in 1985. UW and UWTSD have been in the process of institutional
 merger since 2011, and a joint submission in Celtic Studies was made to REF 2014. The merger
 is now in its final stage, and all CAWCS staff were transferred in 2020 from UW to UWSTD,
 where CAWCS is now a free-standing research centre within the Institute of Education and
 Humanities. Collaboration between researchers at CAWCS and staff in cognate disciplines in
 UWTSD has been a strategic priority throughout this period, in terms of both research projects
 and postgraduate provision. CAWCS is unique within the UK as the only dedicated research
 centre in the field of Celtic Studies, specialising in long-term team-based projects. Its strong
 track record of attracting external research funding has continued in this period, enabling
 achievement of strategic aims stated in the previous submission. Partnerships have been
 increasingly important, those with other academic institutions adding interdisciplinary and
 international dimensions to its research, and those with public bodies being a vital element in its
 impact strategy. Research continues to be focused on the five main areas set out in REF 2014,
 each led by a senior member of staff.

 Welsh Lexicography
 Geiriadur Prifysgol Cymru (GPC), a historical dictionary of the Welsh language, is the longest-
 running research project of the University of Wales, established in 1921 and now funded mainly
 by the Welsh Government as part of its strategic investment in the infrastructure of the Welsh
 language (see REF3 Hawke). The managing editor Hawke leads a team of two senior editors
 (1.6 FTE), three assistant editors (2.4 FTE) and a technical officer. GPC Online was launched in
 2014 as a free Web service and followed by free apps for Apple and Android smartphones and
 tablets in 2016 with Welsh Government funding. The project team has concentrated on
 supplementing the dictionary by adding new vocabulary throughout the alphabet: approximately
 3,000 new entries have been published online (26-AHAF1). Certain groups of words have also
 been selected for thorough re-editing, in some cases in response to specific requests from public
 bodies and other institutions.

 Early Celtic Languages
 Work in this field is leading the development of new multidisciplinary methodologies for the study
 of the human past, this drawing on approaches from archaeology, historical linguists and
 genetics. This approach was first developed in the AHRC-funded project ‘Atlantic Europe and
 the Metal Ages: questions of shared language’ [AEMA] led by Koch (2013–2016) in collaboration
 with archaeologist Sir Barry Cunliffe (Oxford University). CAWCS’s research in early Celtic
 languages has expanded in two directions. First, breakthroughs in full-genome sequencing of
 ancient DNA have produced results consistent with the project’s working hypothesis that Indo-
 European reached Europe’s Atlantic façade before the Iron Age and evolved into Celtic there.
 Thus, the ‘archaeogenetic revolution’ and its implications became a major theme of one of
 AEMA’s sizable outputs, Exploring Celtic Origins (2019) (26-JK2). Secondly, AEMA’s work on
 the Bronze Age ‘warrior stelae’ of Iberia threw new light on parallels with Scandinavian rock art;
 coming together with the discovery that copper from Wales and from Spain was used in Nordic
 Bronze Age artefacts. These findings have led to a series of ongoing collaborations between
 CAWCS and the University of Gothenburg. Most notable is a 4-year research project (2019–
 2023), funded by the Swedish Research Council, investigating prehistoric connections between
 Scandinavia and the Atlantic West as reflected in archaeology and linguistic contact.
 Other major outputs disseminating AEMA research include the multidisciplinary Celtic from the
 West 3 (26-JK3); the philological e-monographs Celto-Germanic on the early history of those
 two language families and contact between them (26-JK4) and Common Ground and Progress
 on the Celtic of the South-western Inscriptions, this being a detailed collation of proposals
 concerning the Celticity of the ‘Tartessian’ language with exhaustive comparanda (26-JK1). The

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 AEMA interactive on-line database (www.aemap.ac.uk) is designed and maintained by King’s
 College London. Research continues in this area, with Koch collaborating with
 archaeogeneticists at the University of Huddersfield and Professor Johan Licg in Gothenburg on
 a further multidisciplinary project (bid submitted to the AHRC in November 2020).

 Medieval Wales
 The ‘Cult of Saints in Wales’ project was funded by the AHRC for four years from April 2013 to
 March 2017. The team led by PI Parsons with CIs Cartwright, Lewis (until Sept 2014) and Parry
 Owen (2014-17) included research fellows Crampin, Alaw Edwards, Eurig Salisbury (until Sept
 2015) and Day (2015-17). Edited texts of Welsh prose and poetry produced by the project
 (including contributions by Johnston) have been published online at by National Library of Wales
 http://www.seintiaucymru.ac.uk/. This uses technology developed by King’s College London
 Digital Humanities. A related project, ‘Vitae Sanctorum Cambriae: The Latin Lives of the Welsh
 Saints’ was funded by the AHRC for three years 2017-19, led by Paul Russell of Cambridge
 University with CI Parsons and research fellows Crampin and Angela Kinney based at CAWCS.
 Latin texts with English and Welsh translations have been published on the same website.
 International conferences were held in Carmarthen, Aberystwyth and Cambridge, and related
 print publications include the volume of essays and textual edition (Cartwright 26-JC1 and 26-
 JC2). AHRC funding for a one-year follow-on project for public engagement activities has been
 secured (Visualizing the Saints of Wales), in collaboration with the Royal Commission on the
 Ancient and Historic Monuments of Wales (RCAHMW). The project will commence in January
 2021.

 Further work on medieval Wales is centred on the ‘Sacred Landscapes of Medieval Monasteries’
 project, which is funded by the AHRC for three years 2019–21. This is led by PI David Austin of
 UWTSD (submitted to UoA 31), with CI Parry Owen and research fellow Day based at CAWCS
 and partners at Leeds University. Parry Owen and Day will produce editions of Welsh poetry
 relating to the monasteries of Strata Florida and Valle Crucis with commentary interpreting
 landscape elements. A future objective developing out of this work is a full edition of the poetry
 of Gutun Owain which will form part of the ‘Beirdd yr Uchelwyr’ series, under the editorship of
 Parry Owen. Other work in this includes Diana Luft, who was a Wellcome Trust Research Fellow
 at CAWCS 2015–19 and produced the edition and translation, Medieval Welsh Medical Texts
 Volume One: The Recipes (UWP, 2020). Nayling’s research as a maritime archaeologist
 demonstrates the provenance of the fifteenth-century Newport Ship (26-NN1).

 Enlightenment and Romanticism in Wales
 Work at CAWCS over the last two decades has significantly opened up the study of
 Enlightenment and Romantic literature and history, not only in Wales but across Britain and
 Europe. Welsh texts, authors and ideas from the period are now referenced far more frequently
 in academic work, and Wales has a much stronger presence than formerly in so-called ‘Four
 Nations’ criticism and in overview works which act as a gateway to the subject (e.g. Constantine,
 Oxford Handbook of British Romanticism and Routledge Historical Resources; Constantine and
 Edwards chapters in Cambridge History of Welsh Literature; Edwards in Literature Compass).
 New work since 2014 includes four further outputs of the ‘Wales and the French Revolution’
 project (2009–12), bringing the total number of volumes in that series to ten: Political Pamphlets
 and Sermons from Wales 1790–1806 (Löffler 26-ML1), Liberty’s Apostle: Richard Price, his Life
 and Times (Paul Frame, 2015); Y Chwyldro Ffrengig a'r Anterliwt: Hanes Bywyd a Marwolaeth
 Brenin a Brenhines Ffrainc gan Huw Jones, Glanconwy (Ffion M Jones 26-FJ1), and Welsh
 Correspondence of the French Revolution 1789–1802 (Ffion M. Jones, 2018).

 The AHRC-funded project (2014-2018) ‘Curious Travellers: Thomas Pennant and the Welsh and
 Scottish Tour 1760–1820’ has been successful in engaging with diverse audiences, combining
 disciplines, and publishing online open-access material, along with blogs by artists, academics
 and walkers (www.curioustravellers.ac.uk). Led by PI Constantine and CI Nigel Leask (Glasgow
 University), with research fellows Edwards and Jones at CAWCS, it has produced an online
 edition of Pennant’s correspondence relating to his tours of Wales and Scotland (currently some
 500 letters, with more in progress), an interactive map of the Scottish tours, 20 previously-

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 unpublished tours written by other travellers, and two separate exhibitions (REF3-Constantine).
 Printed outputs include a volume of essays deriving from two British Academy-funded day-
 conferences held in 2013, (Constantine 26-MAC1), 20 articles and chapters by team members
 (including two from CAWCS PhD student, McHugh), and monographs by Leask (2020) and
 Constantine (forthcoming). Plans for further development of the Curious Travellers material
 include an application with Glasgow and Trinity College Dublin to be submitted in March 2021 to
 the AHRC/IRC UK-Ireland Collaboration in Digital Humanities focussing on Pennant’s tours of
 Ireland.

 Another project in the field of travel writing is ‘European Travellers to Wales 1750–2010’, funded
 by the AHRC for three years from July 2013 and led by PI Carol Tully of Bangor University with
 CIs Kathryn Jones of Swansea University and Williams of CAWCS and an RA based at
 CAWCS. A further year’s follow-on funding enabled Bangor and CAWCS to work with the
 RCAHMW to enhance the impact of the research. The project produced a special issue of
 Studies in Travel Writing, a monograph co-authored by Jones, Tully and Williams (Williams 26-
 HW2) and an online database of travellers’ accounts in French and German (etw.bangor.ac.uk).
 CAWCS’s research on travel is also being applied for public benefit in the project ‘Ports, Past
 and Present’, funded by the EU Ireland-Wales Interreg programme for four years from May 2019
 in collaboration with University College Cork, Aberystwyth University and Wexford County
 Council.

 Expertise in editing early-modern correspondence has been a research strength at CAWCS
 since the three-volume edition of the Iolo Morganwg letters (2007) and the Edward Lhwyd
 correspondence published on ‘Early Modern Letters Online’ in 2012. In addition to work in this
 period already noted on the correspondence of Pennant, Stephens, and the French Revolution,
 the letters recounting La Villemarqué’s visit to Wales in 1838–39 have been edited and
 translated by Constantine (https://hal.univ-brest.fr/hal-02350747/document), and CAWCS is
 currently developing a proposal with academic and community partners focussing on the letters
 of the Morris brothers of Anglesey and Lewis Morris’ coastal maps of Wales. Leverhulme funding
 likewise enabled Löffler to work with an RA (2014–16) on the Welsh historian Thomas Stephens,
 and make his correspondence available on the NLW website,
 https://archives.library.wales/index.php/letters-534.

 Translation, related to work on Enlightenment and Romanticism, has resulted in two conferences
 funded by the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol in 2015 (papers in special number of Llên Cymru,
 39 (2016), edited by Löffler and containing Johnston’s output 26-DJ3) and 2017. See also
 Williams output (26-HW1) on the bilingualism of Iolo Morganwg. A PhD student is working with
 Löffler and Johnston (now with successor E H G Jones) on 19th-century translations into Welsh
 (Löffler left CAWCS at end 2017 to take up a lectureship in Cardiff University).

 Edwards, who was a member of the ‘Curious Travellers’ project team, is CI on an AHRC
 application being developed by Professor Kirsteen McCue (Glasgow) for a project on national
 songs in Britain 1750–1850. From 2017-2019 both she and Constantine were partners in the
 Romantic National Song Network https://rnsn.glasgow.ac.uk/. In April 2016, she co-presented a
 series of podcasts on eighteenth-century women’s writing for the New Statesman, titled ‘The
 Great Forgetting: Women Writers before Jane Austen’:
 http://www.newstatesman.com/culture/fiction/2016/04/hidden-histories-podcast.

 Kaminski-Jones also works in the field of Romanticism. He gained his PhD at CAWCS in 2017
 and took up a three-year British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship in September 2018 to work
 on William Owen Pughe, mentored by Constantine and Johnston. He co-edited the volume
 Celts, Romans, Britons (OUP, 2020), his output (26-RKJ1), which also contains Constantine’s
 third output (26-MAC3).

 Name Studies
 The Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2016 established a statutory ‘List of Historic Place
 Names’, to be maintained by RCAHMW (https://historicplacenames.rcahmw.gov.uk/). Parsons

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 advised Cadw and RCAHMW on the development, structure and contents of the database, and
 contributed material from the historical gazetteer developed at CAWCS. Since 2016 he has been
 seconded at 0.2FTE to oversee work on the collection. Parsons, Parry Owen and Fychan
 (Secretary) continue to serve on the council of the Welsh Place-Name Society while Fychan and
 Parry Owen serve on the Welsh Language Commissioner’s Place-name Standardization Panel
 (see REF3 Hawke). In 2019 Parsons was appointed Director of the Survey of English Place-
 Names, the longest-running of the major research projects supported by the British Academy.
 Parsons is completing a monograph on the relationship between Welsh and English in the place-
 names of the hundred of Oswestry, a region that was significantly Welsh-speaking throughout
 the Middle Ages. The English Place-Name Society will publish his substantial Survey volume on
 that region (publication of which has been delayed by Covid rules). This work derives from the
 AHRC-funded project on the place-names of Shropshire in collaboration with Nottingham
 University (2013–17) on which Parsons was CI.

 Place-names have been an element in the two projects on the saints of Wales. Work assembled
 as part of that research, on church-dedications and place-names containing saints, forms much
 of the material for the follow-on project 'Visualizing the Saints of Wales'. The work will involve
 further collaboration with RCAHMW, and will enhance both the List of Historic Place-Names and
 the national 'Coflein' record of the built heritage of Wales. In these respects, it is a pilot for
 further collaboration on a research project about place-names and the early Welsh church. An
 application for this involves the University of Chester where the AHRC network Early Christian
 Churches and Landscapes was based. Parsons’s publications on Merthyr (2013) and Place-
 Names as Evidence for the Church in Early Wales (26-DP1) set the agenda for this project.
 CAWCS was also involved in the Leverhulme-funded 'Flood and Flow: Place-Names and the
 Changing Hydrology of River-Systems’ (£375k, 2017–19), which examined the value of place-
 names as an indicator of changes in flood-risk over the centuries. A volume arising from the
 project is in preparation with partners at the Universities of Leicester, Nottingham and
 Southampton.

 In addition to these five main areas, the visual culture of Wales has been an area of research
 strength at CAWCS since the project led by Peter Lord in the 1990s. A former RA on that
 project, Crampin, has developed as an independent researcher, gaining his PhD in this period
 and publishing a major monograph on stained glass (Crampin 26-MC1/2). The ‘Stained Glass in
 Wales’ catalogue (http://stainedglass.llgc.org.uk/), produced and maintained by Crampin, is a
 unique searchable database containing over 7,000 images from over 500 sites across Wales,
 with the facility for users to contribute new material and information. He has contributed his
 expertise to the two Saints projects and now to ‘Ports, Past and Present’.

 Impact
 As demonstrated by these projects, key elements of CAWCS’s impact strategy are: embedding
 impact in project planning; collaboration with external partners; creation of essential resources;
 dissemination by open access; involvement of public in creation of resources; geographical
 range of outreach events; and crossing disciplinary and cultural boundaries. ‘Curious Travellers’
 for example was planned in consultation with members of the Thomas Pennant Society while
 AHRC follow-on funding enabled us to concentrate entirely on impact creation in the case of
 ‘European Travellers to Wales’. This contributed to the work of Visit Wales in the area of cultural
 tourism (REF3- Constantine)). This is also now the case for our work on the Saints of Wales.
 ‘Ports Past and Present’ was likewise designed to utilize existing research on travel for the
 benefit of Irish Sea port communities, and is funded from the European Regional Development
 Fund (Ireland-Wales Programme).

 Central to CAWCS’s overall strategic aims is the significance of its impact on the linguistic,
 cultural and economic contexts at home and more widely in terms of international understanding
 of Welsh and Celtic culture. To this end, CAWCS works in strategic alignment with public bodies,
 especially the National Library of Wales, National Museum of Wales, RCAHMW, and Welsh
 Government, as our research assists them in fulfilling their remits. The Welsh Government
 provides core funding for the Dictionary because GPC is an essential resource in the linguistic

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 infrastructure necessary for achievement of its strategy for the future of the Welsh language, an
 indispensable source of information on the history of the Welsh lexicon and providing the
 authoritative base upon which other Welsh dictionaries are developed (see REF3-Hawke).
 CAWCS works in close collaboration with academics at other institutions on joint proposals and
 our relationship with Oxford has been further consolidated through the new Jesus Chair of
 Celtic, part of a strategic alliance to foster new opportunities to promote Celtic and Welsh
 studies. While the two case studies were chosen to exemplify all these elements, more detail on
 these impacts and partnerships is provided in Section 4.

 Open Access
 Providing unrestricted access to research outcomes is a key principle for all CAWCS research
 projects. This is achieved by making outputs freely accessible online, as has been done in this
 period for GPC (website and free apps), texts relating to the saints of Wales, the AEMA
 database, Pennant correspondence and manuscript tours of Wales and Scotland, travelogues
 by European travellers to Wales, La Villemarqué’s letters, and e-books by Koch (26-JK1, 26-
 JK4). Databases relating to the visual and material culture of Wales are hosted by CAWCS,
 including Crampin’s ‘Imaging the Bible in Wales’ and ‘Stained Glass in Wales’, and that of the
 imagery of saints embedded in the ‘Seintiadur’. RCUK funding was received for open-access
 publication of articles by Edwards (26-EE1), Day (26-JD1) and Williams (26-HW1). Some
 articles are published in open-access journals (Constantine 26-MAC2). All other journal articles
 are made available in the UWTSD open-access repository with embargo periods as required by
 publishers. The Wellcome Trust also funded publication of Luft’s work on medieval Welsh
 medical texts as an open-access e-book.

 Research Integrity
 Every new research project must be approved by the University’s Ethics Committee, and project
 leaders are responsible for ensuring that all research is carried out according to appropriate
 ethical standards. CAWCS now provides one of three Institute representatives on the central
 Ethics Committee, who acts as mentor to promote understanding of research ethics at centre
 level. Training in research ethics is mandatory for all new supervisors and research students,
 and doctoral proposals are subject to ethical scrutiny (see REF5A).

 2. People

 Overall responsibility for management of CAWCS lies with the Director, Johnston, who chairs a
 Management Committee of five other senior staff members, Constantine, Hawke, Koch, Parry
 Owen and Parsons. The senior staff has remained unchanged throughout this and the previous
 assessment periods, ensuring stable leadership for development of the core research areas set
 out above. Their contributions were recognized in 2016 by promotions for Parry Owen to a
 professorship and for Constantine, Hawke and Parsons to readerships. Cartwright was awarded
 a professorship in UWTSD. Johnston retired at end 2020 and his successor Prof E.H.G. Jones
 started in post in January 2021.

 Career Pathways
 Professional development opportunities are equally available for all members of staff, whether
 full-time or part time, fixed term or permanent. All staff participate in the Performance and
 Development Review Scheme to identify short and longer term career, performance and
 development goals. Mentoring of ECRs is done by project leaders. Rolling programmes of
 research are dependent on retention of staff expertise gained from previous projects and
 CAWCS engages in strategic succession planning in its key areas of research. Team members
 are research fellows who are normally given open-ended contracts after successful conclusion
 of their first project. Once staff have sufficient experience they are given opportunities for
 progression to research leadership by making grant applications as CIs and eventually PIs,
 mentored by senior staff and supported by the research development staff. Thus Williams having
 been a team member of the ‘Wales and the French Revolution’ project (during which she had a
 period of maternity leave), was CI on the ‘European Travellers to Wales’ project and is now
 preparing an AHRC application as PI in collaboration with a colleague at the University of Brest.

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Some transfer has been possible between project areas within CAWCS. Following the
 retirement of Manon Roberts from GPC (2017), Parry Owen filled the role of Senior Editor on a
 part-time basis, strengthening the GPC team by her expertise in textual interpretation, whilst
 continuing to work in the field of medieval literature. Day holds a part-time post as Assistant
 Editor at GPC and has been a member of the Saints projects and maternity cover on the ‘Flood
 and Flow’ place-names project. Crampin has contributed expertise in visual culture as
 researcher on the two Saints projects, and played a key role in planning the follow-on application
 ‘Visualizing the Saints of Wales’.

 Researchers at CAWCS are supported by a Secretary, an Administrative Officer, an Editorial
 Officer who assists with preparation of publications, and a part-time librarian for the Celtic
 Studies specialist collection. Staff training, aligned to the Researcher Development Concordat, is
 provided by UWTSD Research Office, with support covering generic topics such as funding
 sources, grant applications, publishing of research, postgraduate supervision, and research
 ethics and integrity. Project-specific skills such as palaeography, lexicography, and software are
 dealt with by sharing expertise in-house as well as through contributions from external providers
 e.g. Digital Humanities at Oxford Summer School. Staff are encouraged to give papers at
 international conferences, drawing on the CAWCS travel budget for costs not covered by project
 grants (see Section 4). Involvement in UWTSD distance-learning schemes in Celtic Studies at
 BA and MA levels, led by Cartwright, has enabled CAWCS staff to gain experience of research-
 led teaching which is valuable for their own career development as well as providing a stream of
 potential research students. Four of the PhD students completed the MA in Celtic Studies at
 UWTSD before progressing to doctoral research.

 Equality and Diversity
 In preparing its submission to UoA26, the University has complied with the processes detailed in
 the REF Code of practice, in order to ensure that equality and diversity responsibilities are fully
 considered. This has included regular reporting through the University’s governance process, a
 University wide process in activity profiling, a full staff briefing programme, ongoing opportunity
 to declare personal circumstances, an appeals process and data analysis to undertake equality
 impact assessments. This submission has a near even gender balance overall with (47% male,
 53% female), and at senior level with two male and two female professors. The selection of
 outputs is consistent with this distribution (46% male 54% female). While there is a bias towards
 staff above 45 years old, 26-34 (7%), 35-44 (7%), 45-54 (53%), 55 -64 (20%) and 65+ (13%)
 outputs submitted are consistent with this profile and the unit is considering plans to increase
 ECR and younger research staff in forthcoming recruitment exercises. Staff are from diverse
 cultural backgrounds, with about half having learnt Welsh as adults, and all participating in a
 Welsh-medium working environment. Further analysis is published in the full equality impact
 assessment. More generally, the principles of equality and diversity are fully embedded across
 all employment related polices and processes. Flexible working arrangements, including working
 primarily from home (facilitated by VPN connection to the IT network) and job-sharing, have
 enabled colleagues with carer roles to adapt work patterns to diverse personal circumstances,
 thus ensuring retention of experienced staff. This flexibility has been essential to ensure
 continuity of research projects during the periods of national lockdown in 2020/21.

 There has always been an expectation at CAWCS that some researchers will move on to
 lectureships in teaching departments when opportunities arise, as did Eurig Salisbury (2015) and
 Marion Löffler (2017), or to a more senior research post, as when Barry Lewis was appointed to
 a professorship at DIAS. Alaw Edwards benefitted from experience gained at CAWCS when she
 moved on to an editorial post with Barddas. Fixed-term researcher contracts are sometimes
 given for discrete projects, such as Diana Luft’s post funded by the Wellcome Trust which ended
 in 2019.

 PGR students
 CAWCS first took postgraduates in 2011, and has had a small cohort of high-quality PhD
 students working on topics closely aligned with research project areas. Since Aug 2013, 7
 students have graduated while a further 2 are enrolled, and we aspire to grow this number to a

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 community of some 10+ PhD students, with 3 new candidates per academic year. Our
 postgraduate cohort has had a strong international element, with two from the Netherlands, one
 from Belgium now writing a PhD thesis in Welsh on the cult of Mihangel in Wales, jointly
 supervised by Cartwright and Parry Owen, and four from North America supervised by
 Cartwright. Cartwright is currently supervising seven PhD students (three of whom have second
 supervisors at CAWCS), Nayling four and the new Director brings with her an additional four
 PhD students.

 Supervisory arrangements: Student progress has been monitored by the CAWCS Research
 Degrees Committee (RDC) reporting to the UW Degrees and Awards Board until 2019, and now
 to the UWTSD RDC. CAWCS Head of Graduate Studies (Edwards, preceded by Löffler until
 2017), with responsibility for student admissions, welfare and training, works with the Manager of
 Graduate Studies who oversees all research students in the Institute. Doctoral research students
 are supervised by a team of lead and second supervisor, often a mix of ECR and experienced
 staff, and is a valuable aspect of career development. PhD students are initially accepted on
 probationary status and must submit evidence at regular intervals to the Progress Review Board
 which monitors all research students. Additional support, training and action plans are put in
 place for students who do not meet key milestones. These systems are centrally monitored by
 the Postgraduate Research Office of the University (Academic Office).

 Training: Both CAWCS and UWTSD have been partners in the AHRC Centre for Doctoral
 Training in Celtic Languages (2014-20). One student was funded by the CDT to study at
 CAWCS, and staff have co-supervised with other institutions within the network (Bangor,
 Glasgow, Swansea x2). CAWCS hosted a training event for all CDT students at NLW (2016)
 facilitating work experience at the manuscripts department. Another studentship was funded by
 the AHRC ‘Curious Travellers’ project and five other students have been funded by full
 University of Wales scholarships which have allowed us to develop areas of research strength
 such as Welsh philology, Name Studies, Translation and Romanticism.

 CAWCS PhD students have a training programme tailored to their needs covering the whole
 PhD process from proposals and research questions through to writing up, preparation for viva
 and career development. The centrally organised Research Development Plan includes a series
 of training events as webinars in order to accommodate distance learners. This programme is
 fully aligned to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework and all students and staff are
 encouraged to establish personal development plans using Vitae’s online RDF planning tool.
 Students are invited to present at the annual Summer Graduate School (Lampeter) and at the
 Postgraduate conferences including via online facilities. CAWCS students are supported and
 encouraged to give papers at national and international conferences, including the International
 Celtic Congress at Glasgow and Bangor, the Celtic Studies Association of North America Los
 Angeles, the Harvard Celtic Colloquium and the Paul Mellon Centre for British Art, Yale. CAWCS
 students have organised their own conferences: ‘Language Diversity in Wales’ (2014); ‘Gair am
 Air’ focusing on presentational skills in collaboration with CDT students (2018), and two at
 Oxford co-organized by Kaminski-Jones, ‘Celts, Romans and Britons: Classical and Celtic
 Influence in Britain, 55 BC-AD 2016’ (Kaminski-Jones output 1) and ‘Change of Air: Atmosphere,
 Health and Locality in the Romantic Era, 1760-1840’ (2018, papers to be published in a special
 issue of Romanticism (2021)). Papers by students have been published in Studia Celtica
 (2015), Studies in Travel Writing (2019), Llên Cymru (2016) and Transactions of the Honourable
 Society of Cymmrodorion (2017) and in 2018 Elizabeth Krajewski published a monograph
 entitled Archetypal Narratives: Pattern and Parable in the Lives of Three Saints with Brepols
 based on her PhD thesis supervised by Cartwright.

 Career Development: PhDs at CAWCS have been stepping-stones to academic careers for
 one student who now lectures on early medieval hagiography at Colby-Sawyer College, and
 three students who now hold postdoctoral fellowships, two at CAWCS (Crampin, Kaminski-
 Jones) and one at Leiden. Three others hold academic-related posts at NLW, the National
 Library of Scotland and in the heritage sector.


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Future Plans: CAWCS is in discussion with external partners and colleagues submitted to
 UoA31 regarding partnership funding and provision, which is being supported centrally by a new
 Doctoral College through new doctoral routes (Professional Doctorates and Doctorates in
 Professional Practice).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Grant income awarded (rather than drawn down) within the REF period totals £5.08m, which
 funds both basic and applied research. Funding to develop the research base in partnership with
 academic colleagues in other institutions has been secured through recognised research routes
 such as the AHRC, with nine grants at a total grant value of £2.67m; four grants from
 Leverhulme, the Wellcome Trust and British Academy (£459k), and the Swedish Research
 Council (£117k). A key strategic priority for developing research impact has been to seek
 funding for collaborative research and knowledge transfer activities with industry, the public
 sector and communities. Funding from the European Regional Development Fund, Welsh
 Government and RCAHMW has secured £1.83m in this respect.

 In detail, this £5.08m includes three major AHRC grants led by CAWCS: Curious Travellers:
 Thomas Pennant and the Welsh and Scottish Tour 1760–1820 (PI Constantine, £786k), Atlantic
 Europe and the Metal Ages: questions of shared language (PI Koch, £593K) and the Cult of
 Saints in Wales (PI Parsons £700k). A further project, The sacred landscapes of medieval
 monasteries: an inter-disciplinary study of meaning embedded in space and production led by
 colleagues in the University (submitted to UoA31) includes funding for CI Parry Owen and RA
 Day (£37K). Additional AHRC funding led by other collaborating universities includes European
 Travellers to Wales 1750–2010 (£53k), Vitae Sanctorum Cambriae: The Latin Lives of the Welsh
 Saints’ (CI Parsons, £317k), The Place-Names of Shropshire (CI Parsons, 203k). Leverhulme
 funding was awarded for 'Flood and Flow: Place-Names and the Changing Hydrology of River-
 Systems’ (CI Parsons, £66k), and ‘Knowledge Transfer and Social Networks: European
 Learning and the Revolution in Welsh Victorian Scholarship’ (PI Löffler, £85k). Fellowship
 funding was awarded from the Wellcome Trust for Luft (£143k) and from the British Academy for
 Kaminski-Jones (£117k). Overseas funding was awarded for Nayling’s work with Istanbul
 University from the Newton fund (£49k) and from the Swedish Research Council for Koch’s work
 with Gothenburg University (£118k). Smaller sums were received from the British Academy, the
 AHRC, the Learned Society of Wales and the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol for conferences,
 workshops and publications, while Constantine was awarded a Bodleian Visiting Fellowship
 (Pennant correspondence at Oxford, 2019)

 Income for research-based knowledge transfer activity has been secured from the EU’s Ireland-
 Wales Programme for the Posts Past and Present Project (£454K), from the Welsh Government
 for Geiriadur Prifysgol Cymru (£1.3m), and from RCAHMW for work on place names (£68k).

 Next five years
 Over the next five years CAWCS will seek to further consolidate its research networks and
 partnerships to build upon this significant track record of AHRC funding. Since the REF5 census
 date, we have for example secured follow-on funding for Parsons (PI) and Crampin’s (CI)
 Visualizing the Saints of Wales project (£68k), and have submitted an application with Glasgow
 University and Trinity College Dublin to the AHRC-IRC Collaboration in Digital Humanities fund
 (£620k). Koch has likewise submitted an application with the University of Gothenburg (£800k).
 Parry Owen has submitted (CI) with Cardiff (PI) and Swansea (CI) an application (£881k) on ‘An
 Edition of the Welsh Merlin Poetry’. Other pending applications include projects on place names
 and the early church, on Brittany, and collaborative projects with the new Chair of Celtic at
 Oxford (see below). We are aware that the post-Brexit funding landscape will be dynamic and
 shifting as the UK seeks to adjust to new international relationships, and this includes new
 opportunities and priorities at UKRI. While CAWCS has not been reliant on structural funds of
 the framework programmes and H2020, we will explore the proposed Shared Prosperity Fund,
 especially where this responds to our knowledge transfer priorities with new levels of support

                                                                                          Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 that are available through the University’s funding specialists. The appointment of the new
 Director brings additional expertise to CAWCS in terms of networks and grant capture,
 expanding on two areas of existing research activity, namely literary translation and intercultural
 exchange between Wales and the world, and language policy and planning in the context of
 Welsh and other Celtic and minority languages. These areas align with Welsh Government
 priorities (International Strategy and Cymraeg 2050).

 Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure
 CAWCS is housed in purpose-built accommodation on the National Library of Wales site in
 Aberystwyth, with a direct link into the NLW building. The relocation of the RCAHMW to the
 same site in 2016 created a heritage cluster which has facilitated collaboration between the
 three institutions. The CAWCS building consists of individual study rooms for researchers, a
 seminar room, office and communal space, a library, and accommodation for the Dictionary Unit.
 IT support is provided by UWTSD, whilst the Dictionary Unit has a dedicated Technical Officer.
 Library facilities are a particular strength. CAWCS’s own specialist Celtic Studies library, based
 on core collections bequeathed by several eminent Celtic scholars, is run by a professional
 librarian who has a substantial budget to purchase books and periodicals and exchanges
 publications with sister institutions, the Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies (DIAS) and the
 Centre de recherche bretonne et celtique [CRBC] in Brittany. The Dictionary Unit has a purpose-
 built archive room housing over two million citation slips. Staff at CAWCS are especially
 fortunate to have privileged access to NLW resources. The collections of manuscripts, printed
 books, periodicals, paintings and photographs at this copyright library are indispensable to our
 mission. Merger with UWTSD has significantly strengthened CAWCS’s research infrastructure,
 with support for project development and management from Research, Innovation and
 Enterprise Services, library facilities and subscriptions to online resources, and the open access
 repository. The Roderic Bowen Library on the Lampeter Campus of UWTSD is also a unique
 research collection with particularly strong holdings in Celtic Studies and travel writing.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 Collaboration with academic partners has always been essential to the work of CAWCS,
 enabling us to extend the geographical, temporal and disciplinary scope of our research.
 Partnerships are primarily project-specific, enabled by shared funding and formalised in the
 grant application process, but certain institutions are key partners in more than one research
 area, particularly Glasgow and Oxford. Collaboration strengthens projects led by CAWCS in our
 areas of strategic priority, and enables CAWCS staff to contribute to projects led by other
 institutions.

 Collaborations are noted above under Early Celtic Languages with Archaeology departments at
 Oxford, Gothenburg and Cork, and with Genetics departments at Harvard, Huddersfield and
 Jena. The insights into population movements and connectivity in prehistory produced by these
 interdisciplinary collaborations are far more significant than anything which could be achieved by
 historical linguistics alone. The wide-ranging scope of our work on travel writing is due to
 collaborations with Glasgow English Department, which enabled parallel treatment of the Welsh
 and Scottish tours of Thomas Pennant and others, and with Modern Languages departments at
 Bangor and Swansea for travelogues by European travellers to Wales. Partnership with
 University College Cork and Aberystwyth University facilitates work on travel between Wales
 and Ireland within the current Interreg project. The partnership with Glasgow led to the
 opportunity for Edwards to be CI on an AHRC funding application, PI Kirsteen McCue of the
 Department of Scottish Literature.

 Work on Brittany has been facilitated by CAWCS’s close relationship with the CRBC at the
 University of Brest, established by joint workshops and co-publication reported in the last REF
 period, and has resulted in the online edition of La Villemarqué’s account of his journey to
 Wales, co-edited by Constantine and Postic (2019). An AHRC funding application for a project

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on connections between Wales and Brittany since 1789 in collaboration with Nelly Blanchard of
 the CRBC is in preparation by Williams. Constantine’s Miracles and Murders: An Introductory
 Anthology of Breton Ballads (British Academy, 2017), co-authored with Éva Guillorel of the
 Université de Caen, was a product of the latter’s Newton Fellowship, and makes these texts
 accessible to an international audience.

 Collaboration on the two Saints projects, with UWTSD (before merger) and Cambridge
 University respectively, ensured a wide range of expertise on both Welsh and Latin texts, and
 staff movement within the lifetime of the projects has resulted in further widening of the
 institutional network to include DIAS in Dublin (Lewis), Aberystwyth (Salisbury), and most
 recently Cardiff (Callander). Cartwright is a named collaborator who has contributed editions of
 Welsh Saints’ Lives to a DFG-funded priority program led by Prof. Erich Poppe in Marburg,
 ‘Translation cultures of the Early Modern period’ (2018-20). The ‘Seintiau’ website is now the
 primary source for hagiographical texts in Welsh and Latin, and the ‘Seintiadur’ to be produced
 by the follow-on project will be a hub for data and visual material relating to the saints.
 Collaborations with Nottingham, Leicester and a planned joint application with Chester are noted
 above under Name Studies. Parry Owen is CI on an AHRC application submitted by Dylan
 Foster Evans and David Callander of Cardiff for a project to edit the early Myrddin poetry,
 building on the online platform established by Swansea for the Guto’r Glyn edition. Further
 collaboration has begun with the recently appointed Chair of Celtic at Oxford, Professor David
 Willis, with a view to a joint AHRC submission for a multi-strand project on relationships between
 the Welsh and English languages in Flintshire, involving work on dialects, place names and
 literature.

 GPC participates in various international lexicography networks. Within Britain and Ireland it has
 strong links with other historical dictionary projects: the OED in Oxford (which Hawke serves as
 a specialist consultant), the Dictionary of Medieval Latin from Celtic Sources and Foclóir Stairiúil
 na Gaeilge in Dublin, New English-Irish Dictionary and eDIL in Belfast, Digital Archive of Scottish
 Gaelic in Glasgow and Faclair na Gàidhlig in Skye (with Hawke serving on the Advisory Board),
 and further afield with the recently revived Middle English Dictionary in Ann Arbor (Michigan) and
 the Dictionary of Old English in Toronto. Hawke was a member of the management committee of
 the EU-funded COST Action 'European Network of e-Lexicography' (2013–17) with over 30
 participating countries. CAWCS has been formally accepted as an 'Observer' institution of the
 successor to ENeL, the Horizon 2020 project ELEXIS (European Lexicographic Infrastructure)
 which includes 17 partner and 40 observer institutions from 32 countries, including Russia and
 the USA.

 CAWCS staff (Johnston, Hawke, Parry Owen) have been regular participants in the ‘Datblygiad
 yr Iaith’ series of annual workshops on Welsh philology funded by the British Academy, and this
 international scholarly network has been a valuable stimulus for Johnston’s work on Dafydd ap
 Gwilym’s vocabulary (Johnston output 23-DJ1/2) and a source of lexicographical advice for
 GPC. Parry Owen participated in a workshop on medieval Celtic grammars and her work on
 ‘Gramadeg Gwysanau’ was published in the resultant volume of papers, Hayden and Russell
 eds, Grammatica, Gramadach and Gramadeg: Vernacular Grammar and Grammarians in
 Medieval Ireland and Wales (2016).

 Impact
 Strategic partnerships with three public bodies in the field of heritage are vital to the public
 impact of CAWCS projects, providing direct access to research users and beneficiaries. Our
 collaborators with the National Library of Wales focuses on the manuscripts, archives and
 printed book collection, which form the essential research materials for almost all CAWCS
 projects. Collaboration on a number of specific initiatives also enables delivery of project aims.
 The Saints projects have contributed to NLW’s digitisation programme by funding digitisation
 and transcription of manuscripts on the ‘Seintiau’ website developed and hosted by NLW. The
 project team designed and curated a public exhibition at NLW to mark the end of the ‘Cult of
 Saints in Wales’ project in 2017. An exhibition on ‘Revolution’ was held at the Senedd in Cardiff
 in 2016 in collaboration with NLW’s Political Archive, drawing on materials produced by the

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘Wales and the French Revolution’ project. Daniel Huws’s Repertory of Welsh Manuscripts and
 Scribes will be co-published by NLW and CAWCS in 2021 (see Contribution to the Discipline).

 The Dictionary of Welsh Biography / Y Bywgraffiadur Cymreig (DWB) is a collaboration between
 NLW and CAWCS to maintain and develop a fully bilingual reference work of national
 importance. Now published online only, DWB is hosted by NLW and edited since 2014 by
 Johnston and assistant editor Marion Löffler (formerly CAWCS, now Cardiff), with the support of
 the Honourable Society of Cymmrodorion which published the original print volumes from 1953
 onwards. It was relaunched on a new web platform in 2018 following extensive consultation with
 users and now attracts about 13,000 users per month. A programme of revision is gradually
 replacing some outdated content, addressing gender balance and diversity representation and
 new articles are commissioned regularly to fill gaps which have arisen since publication of the
 last print volumes (covering up to 1970). Articles are contributed by recognised experts in their
 fields based on original research. Those on Saunders Lewis, Alun Llywelyn-Williams, T. H.
 Parry-Williams, Caradog Prichard, Kate Roberts and Waldo Williams are examples of
 authoritative contributions to the study of Welsh literature.

 The National Museums Wales was a key partner on the AEMA project, contributing data to the
 database and images for publications, and a chapter in Celtic from the West 3, Adam Gwilt et
 al., ‘Ephemeral Abundance at Llanmaes’. The ‘Curious Travellers’ project organised two
 conferences at the National Museum in Cardiff, one in 2014 on the impact of classical Greece
 and Rome on travellers to Wales and Scotland to coincide with the Richard Wilson exhibition,
 and another in 2015, ’Layered Landscapes: Geology and Travel in Romantic-Era Britain’ to
 coincide with an exhibition celebrating the bicentenary of the publication of Williams Smith’s
 Geological Map of Britain. Edwards’s paper at that conference is her output (26-EE1). The part-
 time secondment of Parsons to RCAHMW since 2016 to oversee the statutory list of historic
 place-names is noted above under Welsh Name Studies, while European Travellers to Wales
 and the Saints follow-on project are noted above under Impact.

 Collaboration with societies both local and national enables CAWCS researchers to target
 particular interest groups and reach audiences throughout Wales and beyond. The two Saints
 projects toured their travelling exhibition to churches and cathedrals at Bangor, St David’s,
 Llantwit Major, St Asaph, Holywell, Llandaff, Llanbadarn and Gloucester, holding public
 engagement events at each location for the benefit of church and regional groups and societies.
 The ‘Beirdd yr Uchelwyr’ annual forum was held at Brecon in 2015 in collaboration with the
 Brecknock Society, and at Clynnog in 2017 with Cymdeithas Hanes Uwch Gwyrfai. ‘Löffler
 collaborated with the Merthyr Tydfil Heritage Trust in a public event in Thomas Stephens’s home
 town in 2015. A workshop with Cymdeithas Morrisiaid Môn in Llangefni was part of the planning
 for new work on the Morris Brothers.

 Crampin’s particular expertise on post-medieval stained glass resulted in his appointment to the
 Diocese of Llandaff as advisor on stained glass, and to the Church of England’s Church
 Buildings Council as advisor on policy, casework and funding applications for conservation of
 stained glass. Through the ‘Experiencing Sacred Wales’ project, run by the National Churches
 Trust and funded by Visit Wales, he is advising on the development of new Faith Tourism
 initiatives, which intersect with CAWCS’s links with the other current Ireland-Wales Interreg
 projects, ‘Ancient Connections (the Saints)’ and ‘Celtic Routes’.

 Members of the public have been directly involved in creation of resources for some CAWCS
 projects through citizen science. The ‘Stained Glass in Wales’ catalogue has a user submission
 facility and GPC instigated a crowd-sourcing digital initiative. The ‘Cymru1900Wales’
 crowdsourced recording of Welsh place-names, in collaboration with NLW and RCAHMW
 formed the basis for a further project covering the whole of the UK, ‘GB1900’ (gb1900.org).

 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline
 CAWCS also contributes to the discipline of Celtic Studies by publishing work by external
 scholars. A two-volume scholarly edition by A. Cynfael Lake (formerly of Swansea University)

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 was published in the ‘Beirdd yr Uchelwyr’ series (series editor Parry Owen) in 2015. ‘Yn llawen
 iawn, yn llawn iaith’: Proceedings of the 6th International Colloquium of Societas Celto-Slavica
 was published by CAWCS (2015). Honorary Fellow Paul Frame published an important
 biography, Liberty’s Apostle: Richard Price, his Life and Times (2015) in UWP’s ‘Wales and the
 French Revolution’ series edited by Constantine and Johnston.

 A scholarly resource of major significance for the whole field of Welsh Studies is Daniel Huws’s
 three-volume Repertory of Welsh Manuscripts and Scribes co-published by CAWCS and NLW in
 2021. Huws is a Senior Honorary Fellow of CAWCS, and his work on the Repertory has been
 supported since 2010 by Parry Owen, with copy-editing assistance funded by the University of
 Wales Vernam Hull Fund. The British Academy’s Neil Ker Fund contributed to costs of
 preparation of images. A research assistant post (2019-2021) is funded jointly by NLW and
 CAWCS, and a conference originally scheduled to mark the publication in September 2021 will
 now be held in 2022.

 Conferences organised by CAWCS have related mainly to specific projects as a means of
 disseminating research and widening scholarly networks, such as the ‘Cult of Saints’
 conferences (2014, 2017) and the AEMA conferences (2014, 2015) involving archaeologists and
 geneticists and leading to the publication of Celtic from the West 3 (2016). The main event of the
 ‘European Travellers’ project was the “Minority” Cultures and Travel conference (2015), and the
 two travel-writing projects co-organised the ‘Wales and Scotland in European Travel Writing’
 conference (2016).

 Occasionally conferences have been held on themes not directly related to current projects,
 such as the international ‘Fontes Epigraphici Religionum Celticarum Antiquarum’ conference, co-
 organised by Koch at UWTSD (2014), and the papers were published by Koch’s Celtic Studies
 Publications, Häussler and King, eds, Celtic Religions in the Roman Period: Personal, Local and
 Global (2017).

 CAWCS hosts public seminars fortnightly during the academic year in order to engage with
 current work in our various research areas and explore potential collaborations. It organizes the
 O’Donnell annual lecture in Wales and sponsors two distinguished annual lectures, the Sir T. H.
 Parry-Williams Memorial and the J. E. Caerwyn and Gwen Williams Memorial, eight of which
 have been published during this period. In 2021, it will host the first of a new series of CAWCS
 annual lectures by the Jesus Chair of Celtic.

 CAWCS staff make a substantial contribution to the discipline by their editorial work, both of
 edited volumes as noted above and of major journals. Johnston has been chief editor of Studia
 Celtica throughout the period, and Koch has been philology editor since 2014; Parry Owen will
 succeed Johnston as chief editor in 2021, and has also been editor of the Welsh Place-name
 Society’s newsletter since 2019, and joined the Editorial Board of the Modern Humanities
 Research Association's 'Library of Medieval Welsh Literature' in 2020. Parsons has been editor
 of Nomina, the journal of the Society for Name Studies in Britain and Ireland, since 2016.
 Williams was one of three editors of a special issue of Studies in Travel Writing published in
 2014, and is currently co-editing a special issue of Nottingham French Studies on Brittany.
 Edwards was guest editor of a special issue of Romantic Textualities, 22 (Spring 2017), ‘Four
 Nations Fiction by Women, 1789-1830’ (http://www.romtext.org.uk/issues/issue-22/), which
 includes Constantine’s output (26-MAC2. Parsons likewise has been a member of the AHRC
 Peer Review College since 2014. Staff have acted as external examiners for PhD and MPhil
 theses at Aberystwyth, Bangor, Oxford, and the University of South Wales.
 CAWCS staff were invited to give the following prestigious statutory lectures (all of which have or
 are being published): J. E. Caerwyn a Gwen Williams (Parry Owen 2015, Cartwright 2019)
 Kathleen Hughes, Cambridge (Parsons 2018), Kelleher, Harvard (Parry Owen 2014), O’Donnell,
 Oxford (Constantine, 2017), Quiggin, Cambridge (Johnston 2016), T. H. Parry-Williams
 (Edwards 2020, postponed to 2021), Whithorn (Parsons 2019).



                                                                                            Page 12
