Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: St Mary’s University, Twickenham
 Unit of Assessment: 31, Theology and Religious Studies
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

          This submission comes from the staff of Theology and Religious Studies (hereafter ‘The
 Unit’) presently mainly located within the Institute of Theology and Liberal Arts (hereafter ‘The
 Institute’) of St Mary’s University, Twickenham (hereafter ‘St Mary’s/the University’).

         The Institute consists of staff and students from the former Institute of Theology (formed in
 2018 from the School of Education, Leadership and Theology), who are supplemented by Liberal
 Arts staff and students after a university-wide restructuring in summer 2020. The Unit presently
 contains staff who submitted under two Units of Assessment in the Research Excellence
 Framework in 2014: UoA 33 (Theology and Religious Studies) and UoA 32 (Philosophy). Thus,
 the present Unit encompasses research in theology and religion as studied using philosophical,
 theological, historical, psychological, sociological, and anthropological methodologies. This has
 enabled a rich multi- and cross-disciplinary approach to the subject to flourish in the Unit which
 reflects the interdisciplinary research culture that has been fostered at St Mary’s.

          The submission represents the work and research culture in a thriving Institute with over
 350 students in a range of Theology and Religious Studies Foundation, Undergraduate, Masters
 and Research Degrees, not only taught at the campus in Twickenham but with collaborative
 provision arrangements in partnership with the Beda Pontifical College in Rome; St John’s
 Seminary, Wonersh; the Southern Catholic Dioceses Diaconate Formation Programme; the
 Catholic Bishops’ of England and Wales Westminster Interns scheme and the Institut Catholique,
 Paris. These national and international connections have enhanced the impact and outreach of
 the Unit’s research, especially with regards to wider Catholic Christian pastoral concerns. All the
 Unit’s research active staff participate in teaching at all levels, which ensures that their expertise
 is being used to develop research enriched teaching as we create an environment that not only
 facilitates internationally recognised excellent research but also nurtures future generations of
 researchers in its undergraduate and postgraduate student programmes.

          In 2019 the Holy See approved that St Mary’s would host Mater Ecclesiae College which
 would reside in the Institute. These ecclesiastical faculties of theology and philosophy were
 originally granted in 1614 and confirmed by Pope Pius XI in 1932. This marked a new departure
 for the University and has strengthened our international research culture as we have formed
 closer research links with Catholic universities globally, as will be evidenced in the submission. As
 well as the Institut Catholique in Paris these have included collaborations with Katholieke
 Universiteit, Leuven (Belgium); Catholic University of Portugal; University of Notre Dame, Boston
 College, Ave Maria University, Oblate School of Theology (USA); Christ University, Benguluru
 (India); Australian Catholic University and University of Notre Dame, Australia; Pontifícia
 Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul (Brazil); Universidade Catolica de Mozambique and
 Leeds Trinity and Newman Universities in the UK. These developments accord with the
 University’s founding principle to contribute to the life of the Catholic Church. As will be evidenced
 in this statement this is focussed on pushing research into new directions exploring the numerous
 religious and ethical challenges of the contemporary world whilst rooted in the richness and depth
 of the Catholic Christian tradition.

         The development of the Unit’s thriving research culture over the past seven years is
 marked by us having seen 15 candidates through to completion at Doctoral level during the REF
 submission period, with more than 30 doctoral students currently under supervision. Most of the
 outputs discussed emerge from four research centres within the Unit associated with four research
 clusters: the Benedict XVI Centre for Religion and Society (hereafter ‘The Benedict Centre’),
 the Centre for Bioethics and Emerging Technologies (hereafter ‘The Bioethics Centre’), the Centre



                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for Initiatives in Spirituality and Reconciliation (hereafter ‘The Spirituality Centre’) and the Centre
 for the Social-Scientific Study of the Bible (hereafter ‘The Bible Centre’).

 The Benedict XVI Centre for Religion and Society (Benedict Centre)

          The Benedict XVI Centre (Benedict Centre) is an international hub for research and
 engagement activities in religion and the social sciences (primarily economics, sociology, and
 political science). It was founded in 2015 with Professor Stephen Bullivant as its first Director. The
 Centre holds regular public events and convenes a monthly research seminar for its doctoral
 students. The Centre regularly releases free-to-download research reports, several of which
 have generated major media coverage (e.g., Time, Fox, NBC, Economist, BBC, Guardian,
 Telegraph, Times). Reference to the impact of these is made in the Unit’s Impact Case Study 2. In
 the six years since its foundation the Centre has maintained a strong track record of grant capture,
 including the AHRC, John Templeton Foundation, Porticus UK, and the Catholic
 Bishops’ Conference of England and Wales. During the assessment period these have amounted
 to over £350,000, as detailed below.

        See www.stmarys.ac.uk/research/centres/benedict-xvi

 The Centre for Bioethics and Emerging Technologies (Bioethics Centre)

         This was established in 2008 by Professor David Albert Jones and Professor Geoff Hunt.
 Professor Trevor Stammers became director in 2016. The Centre was founded in response to the
 challenges posed by recent developments in biotechnology, which have brought advances in
 terms of science and technology. The Centre’s work focuses both on perennial questions of life
 and death as these pertain to biomedicine and on emerging questions surrounding the use and
 development of such technologies. These concern how human dignity and human rights
 intersect with the fundamental anthropological question of what it means to be human, the
 epistemological question of the limits and promise of knowledge, and ethical questions of what
 should and should not be done in medicine and bioscience.

        The Centre’s approach to bioethical enquiry is primarily focused on natural law philosophy
 and theology, rooted in the universal dignity of the human person. During the assessment period
 the Centre has held regular public events (detailed below) and engaged in significant research
 impact outlined in the accompanying Impact Case Study 1. It has also been active in grant capture
 as well as editing and compiling the quarterly issues of The New Bioethics – A Multidisciplinary
 Journal of Biotechnology and The Body published by Taylor and Francis.

        See www.stmarys.ac.uk/research/centres/bioethics-emerging-technologies

 The Centre for Initiatives in Spirituality and Reconciliation (Spirituality Centre)

          Established in 2010 with Professor Peter Tyler as its first Director, the Centre has three
 primary aims: to promote reconciliation within individuals between the apparently conflicting
 demands of faith and reason; to promote reconciliation between individuals and communities both
 in British society and globally, and to promote reconciliation between humanity and the created
 world. This is all done within the context of engaging in study and outreach, primarily centred on
 Christian spirituality. To this end the Centre sponsors regular international conferences on themes
 connected to spirituality and reconciliation, details of which are given below. Three of these have
 led to significant international publications which have shaped current research in the area. Over
 the assessment period it has supervised five doctoral students to completion and is presently
 supporting 11 research students in their studies. In addition it promotes dialogue between different
 traditions, as well as reflecting on the practice and principles of dialogue, and most recently
 receiving grants to develop dialogue between Muslims, Christians and Jews around de-
 radicalisation.


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        See: www.stmarys.ac.uk/inspire

 The Centre for the Social-Scientific Study of the Bible (Bible Centre)

         The Centre for the Social-Scientific Study of the Bible was created in 2012 with Professor
 Chris Keith appointed as its first Director. The Centre’s mission is to foster social-scientific
 research in Biblical Studies in the UK and internationally. It accomplishes these goals through
 funded research projects, organisation of international conferences, hosting visiting colleagues on
 research leave, and recruiting and supervising postgraduate students. During the REF submission
 period it has convened conferences which were both interdisciplinary and international which
 typically led to publications. More details are given below.

        See: www.stmarys.ac.uk/research/centres/social-scientific-biblical-studies-centre

 Research and Impact Strategy

         Following the last REF assessment in 2014, the Unit identified three key strategic priorities
 which were informed by the activities and visions outlined in our REF 2014 Environment Statement
 and reflection upon the feedback received from the REF 2014 sub-panel. These were as follows:

  1. To develop a thriving and sustainable research environment, putting our research centres at
 the heart of the Theology and Religious Studies research culture.

         In 2014 the Unit had two active research centres: the Spirituality and Bible Centres.
 Following positive feedback from REF 2014 we decided that the research centre structure was the
 most beneficial means of nurturing a sustainable research culture in the Unit owing to constraints
 of size and staffing. This was supported by the University Research Action Plan (2012-2016) which
 encouraged us to ‘actively enhance the quality and quantity of research across all core discipline
 areas, with activity focused on research centres of excellence.’ Accordingly, as well as
 consolidating the work of the two existing centres, we established the Benedict Centre in 2015
 following discussions with the Holy See and the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of England and
 Wales. This was followed by the incorporation of the Bioethics Centre into the Unit in 2016
 (previously based in the Philosophy Unit). This structure helped us to build a robust, inclusive and
 sustainable culture of research involving students and staff at all levels based on the active
 network of the four Centres. The fruits of this investment are seen in the 75% increase of staff
 returned to this unit of assessment since the last assessment: 2014: 4.8 FTE vs 2021: 8.4 FTE.

         The establishment of the four Centres has enabled us to nurture our research culture,
 recruiting new research talent and developing existing researchers, both early career and
 established. Of those being returned Dr Costigane, Professor Crossley, Dr Playford, Dr Phillips
 and Professor Booth have all been recruited post-2014 whilst Professors Bullivant, Stammers and
 Tyler have all received their chairs during the assessment period. Leading international scholars
 such as Professors Jones and Keith and Dr Matthews have been retained and have deepened
 their involvement with the Unit demonstrating the retention of existing researchers and the
 development and nurturing of a new generation of internationally excellent researchers.

         Examples of this successful approach are found in the international conferences that have
 been held at the Unit during the assessment period. As well as bringing internationally leading
 scholars to St Mary’s, our conferences have created opportunities for PGR students to attend
 with scholarships and sponsorships, and for early career researchers to give papers. The
 final published proceedings have become important reference points for future research, some of
 which are included in our research outputs for assessment. Examples include:




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Evil in Second Temple Judaism and early Christianity, sponsored by the Bible Centre in Spring
    2014 which led to the publication of: Chris Keith and Loren T Stuckenbruck eds., Evil in Second
    Temple Judaism and Early Christianity (2016).

    Mystical Theology: Renewing the Contemplative Tradition held at Durham, September 2014
    with conference partner, Durham University which led to the publication of: Peter Tyler, Chris
    Cook and Julienne McLean (eds), Mystical Theology: Renewing the Contemplative Tradition
    (2018).

    Teresa of Avila – 1515 to 2015: Mystical Theology and Spirituality in the Carmelite Tradition
    at St Mary’s, June 2015 with conference partners, the British and Irish Carmelites, Heythrop
    College (London), Sarum College (Salisbury) and the Mystical Theology Network. This led to
    the publication of: Peter Tyler and Edward Howells (eds), Teresa of Avila: Mystical Theology
    and Spirituality in the Carmelite Tradition (2017).
    Memory Theory and Historical Jesus Studies, Spring 2016 which led to two publications. The
    first was a special edition of the Journal for the Study of the Historical Jesus (16 [2018]). The
    second was a three-volume reference work: Chris Keith, Helen K. Bond, Christine Jacobi, and
    Jens Schröter, eds., The Reception of Jesus in the First Three Centuries (2020).

  2. To promote the highest levels of excellence in research and scholarship by recruiting research
 students, developing a research student culture and encouraging early career researchers.

          We have worked over the assessment period to attract increasing numbers of research
 students to the Unit and provide them with an excellent doctoral research programme that will
 support the successful development of their degrees and future careers. Assisted by funded
 scholarships and central support from the University we have awarded 10 scholarships over the
 assessment period. We have seen a year-on-year increase in PhD registrations since 2014 with
 the number doubling from 17 to the present 34. Alongside this growth in PGR students the number
 of staff in the Unit who are eligible to act as Director of Studies has doubled from three in 2014 to
 six at present.

         In collaboration with charities such as Porticus UK we have sought to recruit students who
 would normally not have the opportunity to study at a British HEI. For example: Nate Shedd was
 awarded a studentship for the Bible Centre commencing 2016-2017. He passed his viva with ‘no
 corrections’ in September 2019 and is expected to publish his thesis in a major monograph series.
 Similarly, Mark Murphy was awarded a St Mary’s scholarship to complete his Doctorate looking at
 aspects of St John of the Cross and Jacques Lacan in 2013. He passed his viva with minor
 corrections in summer 2019 and is presently working at Nottingham University.

         During the assessment period the Unit has supported the progress and development of
 the work of its ECRs. For example, Dr Jacob Phillips was appointed as a lecturer in Theology in
 January 2016, shortly after undertaking his successful Doctoral defence. He was subsequently
 appointed to a permanent Lectureship in Theology in August 2016. Since appointment and with
 the support of the Unit he has completed eight articles and two monographs, some of which will
 be included in the submission. He has conducted four PhD examinations in the past year and is
 on the supervision team for four research students. In Autumn 2019 he was promoted to Reader.
 He is presently the Director of the Institute. Staff development and support in research and
 scholarly activity has thus enhanced the capacity and quality of research in the Unit.

  3. To host public lectures, colloquia, blogs and conferences that disseminate the fruits of
 academic and scholarly research to a wider public whilst increasing the quality and quantity of
 external funding.



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         These areas have been developed both at the St Mary’s Twickenham site and at the new
 media centre at ‘The Exchange’, Twickenham, as well as with partners nationally and
 internationally. Of note are the postgraduate spirituality seminars presently being run in
 association with the Margaret Beaufort Institute for Theological Research, Cambridge and Sarum
 College, Salisbury. Although the Covid-19 pandemic has meant we have not been able to hold
 ‘face to face’ events over the past year, this work has continued online with Zoom events. Online
 work continues to be done by the Bible Centre with its Jesus Blog, edited by Professors Keith and
 Crossley with international collaborators since 2012. The blog currently hosts an average 9,000
 viewers per month across the globe and is the leading website on social scientific research into
 the Bible (see www.historicaljesusresearch.blogspot.com).
        We also draw attention to the series of annual day conferences on the wider topic of mental
 health and spirituality (2015–2019) run in conjunction with the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of
 England and Wales, the Maudsley Trust, Mind and the Catholic Children’s Society on topics such
 as ageing, mental health, dementia and spirituality; addiction, mental wellbeing and spirituality and
 young people.
         As part of our ongoing collaboration with ecclesial communities both nationally and
 internationally we have sought to disseminate the fruits of our research especially in promoting
 dialogue and the common good, notably the 2014 conference held at the Unit in collaboration with
 the Catholic Universities of Leeds Trinity and Newman to promote dialogue within and beyond the
 Catholic Church in celebration of the 50th anniversary of Pope Saint Paul VI's encyclical
 Ecclesiam Suam. Supported by a Porticus UK grant, the conference was open to PGR students
 and ECRs at no cost and conformed to the Unit’s commitment to open access. The proceedings
 were published in a special edition of The Journal of Dharma in 2018 by our collaborative partners
 at Christ University, Bengaluru. The work of the conference resulted in day conferences,
 publications and doctoral research into dialogue and de-radicalisation which is ongoing.
        Of note in this context is the visit in 2015 to St Mary’s by His All Holiness, Bartholomew,
 the Ecumenical Patriarch to celebrate the fifth anniversary of the visit of Pope Benedict XVI to the
 campus. His All Holiness delivered a lecture entitled ‘Religion in Dialogue: The Importance and
 Imperative of Dialogue in our World’. The dialogue continued with the conference Religion, Identity
 and Conflict held at St Mary’s in 2016 which again has spurred initiatives around de-radicalisation
 and the promotion of interfaith dialogue in social context which will continue into the next REF
 cycle.
         Details of the increase of our external funding are given in Section 3 below. This has
 increased markedly during the cycle with the Unit having captured c. £450,000 in grant income
 during the assessment period. As illustrated below, much of this has been invested in the
 infrastructure of the Unit to ensure a sustainable research culture, especially with regards to the
 development and prioritisation of our PGR students and ECRs.

 Future Research Priorities

     Having successfully accomplished the three strategic priorities that we set out after REF 2014,
 we go forward as the new Institute of Theology and Liberal Arts (ITALA), updating our research
 strategy to align with the University’s overarching Vision 2025 strategy. With this vision in mind we
 have identified the following research and impact priorities for the next REF cycle in the period
 2021–2027:

    1. To continue to build a robust, inclusive, open and sustainable culture of research involving
    students and staff at all levels based on an active network of research centres.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    2. To attract increasing numbers of research students and provide them with a high-
    quality research degree programme to support their development, to achieve success in their
    degree and in their future careers.

    3. To develop opportunities for increased engagement in collaborative and interdisciplinary
    research activity with external researchers and research centres thus enhancing the
    Unit research environment.

    4. To develop and promote the quantity and success of research funding applications,
    enterprise and income generation.

    5. To continue to develop the Unit’s open research culture and environment enhancing its
    impact and benefit to society.

      As in the previous cycle, the primary focus for the implementation of these research priorities
 will be outlined in plans for the Unit’s four research centres:

     The Bible Centre aims to accomplish these goals by continuing its collaborative work with
 international scholars via conferences that lead to publications. Having nurtured emerging
 scholars and ECRs in the past cycle (see below) the Centre aims in the next cycle to secure
 postdoctoral positions to provide early career research opportunities for promising scholars. The
 Centre is also developing strategic cooperation with the charity Panacea’s Centre for the Study of
 Apocalyptic and Millenarian Movements, possibly sharing costs for PhD studentships as well as
 developing joint conferences.

     The Benedict Centre seeks to continue its recent grant successes and is currently involved
 in two joint bids to the John Templeton Foundation (with the Universities of Oxford, Notre Dame
 Australia, Queen’s Belfast, Coventry, and Kent), in both cases developing existing collaborative
 relationships with colleagues at other institutions.

     The Bioethics Centre will continue to build its doctoral research degree programme which has
 already seen three of its MA students (on the Bioethics and Medical Law MA) obtain their
 doctorates since the last REF cycle. The Centre will be supporting doctoral students through
 regular scholarships, at present awarded from the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of England and
 Wales, the most recent of which was appointed in autumn 2019. In line with the priority of
 promoting an open research culture the Centre will continue to promote fully funded events open
 to the public for free (see below).

     Finally, the Spirituality Centre will continue to support doctoral students through their research
 programmes with scholarships and staff input. It will continue to develop international scholarly
 links through its partnerships with organisations such as the Franciscan and Carmelite orders and
 the Mystical Theology Network. These will contribute to major international conferences, the next
 ones planned for 2021 looking at the Carmelite spirituality of St John of the Cross and the Healing
 of the Impact of Modern Slavery jointly with the St Mary’s Centre for the Study of Modern Slavery
 and the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of Thyateira and Great Britain. The Centre was awarded a
 grant from Porticus UK in 2020 to continue its interfaith dialogue work of reconciliation.
 A colloquium and publication are now being planned for 2021/22 leading to further colloquia and
 publications later in the cycle.


 2. People
 Staffing strategy and development
         St Mary’s seeks to retain its most talented staff, an aim reflected in the Unit, where a core
 of senior and established research active staff who were returned in REF 2014 have been retained
 and are returning in the present exercise (Professors Bullivant, Jones, Keith, Stammers, Tyler and
                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Dr Matthews). These staff have enhanced our strategy of creating a nurturing environment for
 developing researchers. This is illustrated by the number of staff recruited in the cycle who are
 now being submitted for assessment (Profs Booth, Crossley and Drs Costigane, Phillips,
 Playford).
         The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (2008/2019) informs
 the implementation of the Unit’s research strategy by supporting both researchers, supervisors
 and supervisees in developing integrity, probity, equality, and diversity in the Unit’s research
 environment. Every new staff member and ECR considered to be a ‘developing researcher’ is
 allocated a research mentor (this is also available to all staff who request it). In addition, staff meet
 with the Institute Director of Research on an annual basis to agree a Personal Research Plan
 (PRP) for the coming year. This covers all proposed research activity and the resources to be
 allocated for its successful execution. The Research Plans are reviewed on an annual basis and
 a report given to the University Research Office. All staff are annually invited to make bids for
 allocated Institute research funding, such funding may be used to support attendance at national
 and international conferences, assist with data collection, to develop an external profile and
 disseminate research. Experienced researchers, such as the Directors of the research centres,
 act as mentors for ECRs and research students. This is done through participation in research
 seminars, supervision, and co-supervision of research students, and sharing experience of
 research, supervision, and publishing, especially with ECRs.
        The success of the Unit in fostering the work of ECRs can be seen in their inclusion in this
 REF submission. A good example of the developing and mentoring of staff is Dr Richard Playford
 who joined the Unit as a Lecturer in Religious Studies (0.5) in September 2017 having completed
 his doctorate in June 2017 on Natural Law and Ethics. As an ECR he has been mentored and
 encouraged by the Unit’s staff and will be submitting several outputs for this Unit, his first
 submissions for REF. Similarly, Dr Nate Shedd began his doctorate in October 2016 under the
 supervision of Professors Keith and Crossley. From 2018–19 he worked as a graduate assistant
 on the BA Theology, Religion, and Ethics degree whilst being mentored by Professor Crossley.
 He successfully defended his doctorate in September 2019 and is presently working on the staff
 of St Mary’s.
          Staff are invited annually to bid for up to one semester’s research leave to write up a major
 piece of research. These sabbaticals are generally awarded annually, and over the past cycle
 seven have been awarded. Many have used this opportunity to complete monographs that are
 being submitted as outputs in REF 2021. For example, Professor Keith had a sabbatical leave in
 Semester One of the 2018-19 academic year, which enabled him to finish his monograph, The
 Gospel as Manuscript, which will form part of his output submission. He also spent the sabbatical
 finalising and submitting all three volumes of The Reception of Jesus in the First Three Centuries,
 for which he served as lead editor. However, research leave is not tied to REF preparation. All
 staff attend the Unit’s research seminars and present their work in this forum. Each semester
 priority in allocating seminars is given to research students and to ECRs. New members of staff
 are encouraged to present their work in their first academic year so that they can participate fully
 in the research life of the Unit. These seminars, run at least once a month over the academic year,
 are attended by research active members of staff and postgraduate students, owing to the
 pandemic, at present remotely.
 Research Students
         As well as open selection of doctoral candidates, during the REF assessment period ten
 competitive studentships have been awarded to doctoral students by the Unit, covering all degree
 costs and in most cases with additional funding for research needs. These have been openly
 advertised and the students selected from a panel of fellow students and academics. For example,
 Marc Barnes and Stephen Nakrosis received Benedict Centre studentships for projects on gender
 theory and Catholic Social Teaching respectively. Both are on course to complete within the next
 12 months.
        The development of the PGR community is shown in the number of our registered students
 doubling from 17 in 2014 to 34 at present. The University’s application for Research Degree

                                                                                                   Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Awarding Powers was approved on 16 March 2021, and we will be able to award research degrees
 from 1 April 2021. During the period covered by this report, our cohort was primarily comprised of
 students registered at Liverpool Hope University, with one remaining from an older collaboration
 with the University of Surrey. Both universities have rigorous monitoring systems and St Mary’s
 has supplemented this with its own progress monitoring review under the aegis of the
 University Committee for Research which reviews the support and training provided to all research
 students through the Annual Report and Interim Review processes.
         A research students’ ‘Module’ is hosted on the St Mary’s Virtual Learning Environment.
 This contains all relevant administrative documents and research programme resources. A central
 PGR skills training programme is provided at St Mary’s in addition to the sessions available at
 Unit level. As well as increasing PGR numbers we have endeavoured to create an environment
 that supports and values the PGR community so that they can thrive and flourish within the Unit.
 Each student is attached to a research centre and as well as the programme of Unit-led events
 each Centre actively involves its students in conferences, colloquia, seminars etc. All registered
 PhD students are required to have a minimum of eight formal PhD supervisions per annum – with
 most exceeding this.
         Progress is closely monitored with both the interim review and annual review each year,
 the results of which are discussed at the Institute sub-committee for research. The annual review
 requires each student to produce a 2000-word report about which they are questioned at the hour-
 long review meeting by their supervisory team. In line with Liverpool Hope and Surrey regulations
 the progress of each student is reviewed mid-way through their course in a Confirmation Review.
 This requires a 20,000-word report detailing their progress to date and an in-depth interview with
 the supervisory team and external auditors. Each student is allocated £340 per annum for research
 expenses (conferences, books, research materials etc) from central funds, however many
 students have been allocated more than this owing, for example, to the need for extra expenses
 for conferences abroad.
         We encourage each student to feel themselves part of the international scholarly
 community and encourage them to present at international conferences. Over the assessment
 period graduate students have engaged in teaching undergraduates (maximum of two per year)
 to prepare them for a future career in the academy (such as Dr Nate Shedd and Dr
 Leonora Butau). Students engaging in teaching are required to undertake training for this
 role. They are assigned to a member of academic staff involved in the programme or module who
 will coordinate their teaching activities and brief them fully on the objectives, academic content
 and programme regulations. The student is also required to take relevant modules on the
 University College’s Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice and/or attend compulsory
 training for PGRs. The success of these measures in nurturing a thriving PGR student culture is
 seen in our completions over the REF cycle:
 Table 1. PhD completions per year and cumulative since 2013/14

                         2013-     2014-     2015-     2016-     2017-     2018-     2019- 2020
                         2014      2015      2016      2017      2018      2019

  PhD completions                  2         0         4         3         3         3




  PhD    completions               2         2         6         9         12        15
  (cumulative)




                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Each research student is supervised by a team to give greater support. This is led by a
 Director of Studies, assisted by a Research Supervisor, and in many cases supplemented by a
 Research Advisor, the latter can be appointed from outside St Mary’s. In consequence of this
 targeted and person-centred support the Unit is proud to have mentored and launched the careers
 of international scholars over the past cycle period. For example, Brandon Massey, currently
 studying for a PhD with Prof Keith, recently had an article published in the prestigious PRJ New
 Testament Studies that draws on research he is undertaking for his PhD. Dr Leonora Butau, a
 former undergraduate of St Mary’s who was awarded her doctorate in the last cycle, is presently
 Director of the John Paul II Foundation, Houston, Texas where she draws on her research
 completed at St Mary’s on Pope St John Paul II’s Theology of the Body.
 Equality and Diversity
          Consistent with the University’s core value of Inclusiveness, the unit has a commitment to
 providing equal research opportunities regardless of age, race, gender, religion or sexual
 orientation. The international nature of our doctoral supervision has supported a growing number
 of PGR students from BAME and LGBTQ+ backgrounds. Recent doctorates awarded to the
 Institute’s students include Vincent Mannings’ 2019 doctorate on people with HIV living in church
 context and Sangthong Phenrisai’s 2019 doctorate investigating Buddhist views of euthanasia in
 Thailand. As detailed above, our scholarships and research mentoring systems are enabling us
 to grow and develop support for these groups to assist their doctoral work.
         The present pandemic conditions have made online supervision and seminars more
 important than ever, and we have continued to fully support our students in an online and digitally
 interactive fashion. The Bible Centre had already pioneered international online supervision, so it
 did not require a large shift in the Unit’s environment to embrace the challenges of Covid-19. Thus,
 students who may have been affected detrimentally by the pandemic due to their ethnic or family
 circumstances have had their situation ameliorated.
         Several staff and research students have caring responsibilities, family needs (including
 the need for parental leave) and long-term illness. The Director of the Institute and the Director of
 Research have taken all this into account when allocating funding, leave and other Institute
 resources and the allocation of these resources is regularly monitored by the Institute Research
 Committee to ensure it is fairly distributed according to the University’s Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion Policy Statement (2020).
         See, www.stmarys.ac.uk/services-departments/HumanResources/equality-diversity-
 inclusion/SiteAssets/Pages/Equality
          Two specific examples illustrate this wider commitment. In this last REF cycle the Institute
 has been instrumental in setting up the first MA programme in Catholic Social Teaching in the
 British Isles, to date the only one of its kind. Students for the degree include interns supported by
 the Bishops Conference of England and Wales Faith in Politics programme and final year students
 training to be permanent deacons, who are expected to be specialists in this branch of moral
 theology. The nature of the degree, with its emphasis on combating inequality and promoting
 liberation, presents a significant statement of the Unit’s commitment to equality and diversity.
        Finally, a grant received between 2018-21 from Porticus UK to the Bioethics Centre:
 ‘Towards a Catholic understanding of Gender identity’, PI Professor David Albert Jones. This
 grant has enabled the development of a project that is both academic and pastoral, engaging with
 trans-sexual people who are Catholic and facilitating dialogue on gender identity within the
 Catholic community.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Evidence for Successful Generation of Research Income.
          Each of the four Centres has a budget and Director who is tasked with developing the work
 and operations of its research. In addition to income provided by St Mary’s each Centre has
 successfully generated substantial amounts of research income during the cycle. Examples of
 this include:

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The Benedict Centre
        This Centre has received over £350,000 in grants over the assessment period. Recent
 substantial grants include:

    •   2015-16 John Templeton Foundation: 'The Scientific Study of Nonreligious Belief’, co-PI
        Professor Stephen Bullivant on 15-month project in collaboration with colleagues at the
        Universities of Kent, Coventry, and Queen's Belfast (£215,000 of which c.£20,000 was
        direct to St Mary’s).

    •   2016-20 John Templeton Foundation: 'Understanding Unbelief', co-PI Professor Stephen
        Bullivant on 3-year project in collaboration with colleagues at the Universities of Kent,
        Coventry, and Queen's Belfast (£2.3 million; c. £70,000 direct to St Mary’s).

 These two grants have facilitated Professor Bullivant’s work on the role of non-belief and its wider
 social implications, leading to several significant reports that have impacted on wider society.
 These impacts are detailed in the accompanying Impact Case Study. Other Benedict
 Centre grants include:

    •   2016-19 Porticus UK: ‘Evangelising Parishes’, PI Professor Stephen Bullivant (£31,500).

    •   2019-22 Porticus UK: ‘Signs of Hope: Catholic Growth in the UK’, PI Professor Stephen
        Bullivant (£80,000 direct to St Mary’s).

    •   2018-19 Ryan Foundation: ‘Teenage Pregnancy: a cross-country analysis’, PI Professor
        Stephen Bullivant (£61,000).

    •   2019-21 AHRC: ‘Catholics in Britain: Faith, Society, Politics’, co-PI Professor Bullivant in
        collaboration with colleagues at Leicester University (£170,000; c.£60,000 to St Mary’s).

    •   2019-22 St Barnabas Society: ‘The experiences of clergy from other denominations (and
        religions) within the Catholic Church in the British Isles’; PI Professor Stephen Bullivant
        (£100,000).

     From these grants the Centre has been able to develop research scholarships and
 studentships that have led to several doctoral completions during the cycle.

 The Other Centres
       These have achieved cumulative grants of c. £100,000 over the assessment period.
 Substantial examples of these include:

    •   2015 Bible Society UK: ‘Engaging Poverty in the Early Church and Today’ (£5,000).

    •   2015 Caritas Diocese of Westminster Conference Sponsorship Grant: ‘Engaging Poverty
        in the Early Church and Today’ (£5,000).

    •   2018-21: Grant from Porticus UK to the Bioethics Centre: ‘Towards a Catholic
        understanding of Gender identity’, PI Professor David Albert Jones (£30 000 total to St
        Mary’s).

    •   2019 Grant to the Bible Centre from the Franklin Humanities Institute, Duke University,
        USA: ‘Cultures of Reading in the Ancient Mediterranean: Jews, Christians, Greeks,
        Romans’ ($11,000).



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   2020 Porticus UK grant to the Spirituality Centre (£20,000) to initiate an international
        dialogue event in Toledo, Spain, on de-radicalisation in Islam, Christianity and Judaism
        leading to a publication and further on-line events.

    The number and size of the awards attests to the Unit’s growing ability to foster internationally
 recognised research ventures that have been recognised by a range of significant funding
 bodies. A significant proportion of income each year is ring-fenced for PGRs (£340 x 40 students
 = £13,600).

 Scholarly infrastructure supporting research
          The Institute has a Research Director for Theology and Religious Studies as well as an
 Associate Dean for Research and Enterprise. Accordingly, all PGRs have an independent point
 of contact to offer support and guidance beyond supervisory teams. The Research
 Director manages interim and annual monitoring reviews of PGRs, as well as PhD enquiries and
 enrolments. Research activity in the Institute reports into, and is formally monitored by, the
 Institute’s Research Sub-Committee. This Sub-Committee meets three times per year and is
 chaired by the Research Director, with the committee comprising of the Director of the Institute,
 Associate Dean for Research and Enterprise, Head of Research Office, Representatives of
 research centres, Library representative, and PGR student representative. To ensure the
 presence of the student voice, the PGR student rep has a fixed agenda item to report on PGR
 activities and issues arising. The Sub-Committee receives reports on progress of research
 projects, research outputs, and grant applications, and is responsible for monitoring PGR progress
 and considering PhD applications. The Sub-Committee reports into the University Research
 Committee on which both the Director of Research, Associate Dean for Research and Enterprise
 and Faculty PGR student representative also sit.
        To develop the international excellence of the Unit’s research facilities in 2004 St Mary’s
 acquired the archives of The Tablet, a Catholic weekly founded in 1840. This archive is a unique
 resource for understanding the development and self-understanding of the Roman Catholic
 Church in England from 1840 to the present. The archive supports the research of PGR students
 in the Institute and is utilised by staff and visiting scholars. In 2017 St Mary’s acquired the
 Franciscan Study Collection after the closure of the Franciscan Study Centre, University of
 Canterbury. It is one of the most substantial collections of Franciscan and Mendicant studies in
 Northern Europe and is currently housed in the main campus library. In September 2019, the
 Centre for Marian Studies, established 1995, moved to the St Mary’s as an affiliated centre,
 making St Mary’s the custodians of their significant library collection of 1800 volumes
 on Mariology.
         The development of St Mary’s Doctoral College during the cycle has given the Unit’s
 research students a well-equipped and appointed space in which to pursue their research. ECRs
 and research students who have been engaged in teaching have been given access to an office,
 computer and phone-line, which has enhanced their ability to deepen their belonging to the St
 Mary’s research community. The University Library continues to invest in high quality theological
 and religious resources for the use of researchers including subscribing to all key research journals
 and databases of relevance to our students.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
       The Unit has always prized its links with the Third Sector, in particular the Educational and
 Church-based initiatives that have developed from its research culture. This is outlined in the
 accompanying impact statements.
 Support for Interdisciplinary and Collaborative Research Joint Research Projects


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         As outlined above, St Mary’s has always recognised that theological research is inter-
 contextual and inter-disciplinary. Since 2018 Professor Tyler has worked in collaboration with the
 Centre for Spirituality, Theology and Health at Durham University. One of the fruits of this
 collaboration was the multidisciplinary conference and publication cited earlier. Other examples of
 collaborative work undertaken by the Unit include the work done by Professor Stammers with
 Professor Mohammed Ghaly of the Centre for Islamic Legislation and Ethics in Doha. Having
 presented at a conference in 2017, he contributed a chapter towards a subsequent volume of
 papers published by Brill in December 2018 as Islamic Ethics and the Genomic Question. The
 Bioethics Centre has also collaborated with the Scottish Council for Human Bioethics (SCHB) with
 its annual Edinburgh Bioethics Film Festival each November up until 2018. In January 2020, the
 SCHB and the Bioethics Centre jointly hosted a two-day residential conference on the Ethics of
 Engendering Non-Human Persons.
          Prof Keith is currently collaborating with Professor William Johnson, Chair of Classics at
 Duke University, on a multi-site research project, ‘Cultures of Reading in the Ancient
 Mediterranean: Jews, Christians, Greeks, Romans.’ This involves three events leading to the
 publication of a major collection of essays. The first event was a workshop held at Duke University
 in 2019. The second event was a two-day conference held virtually at St Mary’s in 2020. The third
 event will be a panel review of the published proceedings of the two earlier events at the Society
 of Biblical Literature’s annual meeting in 2021. This project is interdisciplinary, placing scholars of
 ancient Judaism, ancient Christianity, and Classics in discussion over the common theme of
 ‘reading cultures’.
          Professor Bullivant is currently involved in the following major collaborations: Co-PI of
 ‘Understanding Unbelief’, funded by the John Templeton Foundation, with Drs Lois Lee (PI; Kent),
 Jon Lanman (co-PI; Queen’s University Belfast), and Miguel Farias (co-PI; Coventry); co-PI of
 ‘Catholics in Britain’, funded by the AHRC, with Dr Ben Clements (PI; Leicester University); co-
 editorship of two-volume The Cambridge History of Atheism (forthcoming 2021), with Professor
 Michael Ruse (Florida State University), with whom he previously co-edited The Oxford Handbook
 of Atheism (OUP, 2013); ongoing work on social network analysis with Dr
 Giovanni Sadewo (Swinburne University of Technology, Australia), and a project on Catholic
 statistics in Britain and Ireland, in collaboration with Dr Alana Harris (King’s College,
 London) and Tim Kinnear (Benedict Centre PhD student). By including Mr. Kinnear in the project
 Professor Bullivant will be helping to develop his involvement in future research projects in the
 academy.
 Professional Associations and Editorial Work
        Staff in the Unit have been substantially involved in their Professional Associations and
 associated editorial work during the assessment period. Examples include the Revd Dr Ashley
 Beck who has been President of the Catholic Association of Great Britain (2018-20) and Professor
 Peter Tyler who is presently Treasurer of the Mystical Theology Network (2019 – present).
         In terms of editorial contributions examples include Professor Tyler who is Deputy Editor
 of Vinayasāsadhana: Journal of Psycho-Spiritual Formation, published at Dharmaram College,
 Christ University, Bengaluru and Editorial Adviser to Mount Carmel Journal, Journal of the
 Teresian Carmelites of the Anglo-Irish Province. Other examples of editorship include Professor
 Crossley who is Editor of the Journal for the Study of the Historical Jesus and Professor Keith who
 is Editor of the Library of New Testament Studies monograph series; Co-editor of the Reception
 of Jesus in the First Three Centuries monograph series; Editor-in-Chief of the T&T Clark Jesus
 Library digital database and (with Professor Johnson of Duke University) Co-editor of the Cultures
 of Reading in the Ancient Mediterranean series (Oxford University Press). He is also on the
 editorial boards of Journal for the Study of the Historical Jesus, Journal for the Study of the New
 Testament, Catholic Biblical Quarterly, and Stone-Campbell Journal. During the cycle he has also


                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 served as editor of two reference volumes: The Reception of Jesus in the First Three Centuries
 (T&T Clark, 2020) and The Dictionary of the Bible and Ancient Media (T&T Clark, 2017).
 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
        As well as the major International Conferences outlined in Section One, the Bioethics
 Centre co-hosted a November 2014 conference on euthanasia in Belgium in collaboration with the
 Anscombe Bioethics Centre, the Scottish Council on Human Bioethics, and the Centre for
 Biomedical Ethics and Law at the University of Leuven. This led to an academic publication
 with Cambridge University Press included in the outputs for REF 2021. The contribution of the
 Centre to the debate over assisted dying nationally and internationally is explored in
 the accompanying Impact Case Study.
 Refereeing Academic Publications and Consultancies
        Staff are widely involved in the review and referee of academic publications. For example,
 Prof Bullivant is a regular reviewer of monograph manuscripts for Oxford University Press,
 Cambridge University Press, Routledge and Bloomsbury Academic and Journal Peer-Reviewer
 for (among others): Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion, Religion, Journal of Contemporary
 Religion, Journal of Sociology, Critical Research on Religion, Religion and Politics, Secularism
 and Nonreligion, Religion and Gender, and Antiphon. He has also reviewed grant
 proposals during the assessment period for the European Research Council, the ESRC and the
 John Templeton Foundation.
        Professor Jones is a peer reviewer of manuscripts for the American Journal of Public
 Health, Bioethics, BMC Medical Ethics, Clinical Ethics, The Hasting Centre Review, The Journal
 of Medical Ethics, The Kennedy Institute of Ethics Journal, Medical Humanities, Melita Theologica,
 Modern Theology, The National Catholic Bioethics Quarterly and Theology & Sexuality and for the
 publishers Cambridge University Press, Continuum, InterVarsity Press, Palgrave Macmillan,
 Routledge, Springer and T&T Clark.
        Unit staff are frequently asked to assist with the work of the Catholic Bishops of England
 and Wales. For example, during the assessment period Professor Bullivant has been a member
 of the Catholic Bishops' Conference's Mission to Nonreligious Sub-Committee; Prof Tyler has
 worked on Catholic-Buddhist dialogue with the Conference’s Department of Dialogue and
 Unity and Professor Jones has worked on the Healthcare Reference Group of the Conference,
 his accompanying impact statement shows the depth of his consultancy work with this and other
 major national and international bodies.
 Scholarly Awards, Fellowships and Invited Keynotes
     Unit staff have featured highly in their specialist areas in terms of national and international
 esteem over the cycle. Examples include:

    •   Professor David Albert Jones was awarded the Paul Ramsey Award for Excellence in
        Bioethics in January 2017.

    •   Professor Chris Keith was awarded a HUMEVAL research fellowship to the University of
        Oslo in 2020 which, due to Covid-19 restrictions, he will take up in 2021.

    •   Recent keynotes delivered by Professor Tyler include:
    Melancholia, the Dark Night and Spirituality: John of the Cross, Teresa of Avila and Mental
    Health. Part of the lecture series to accompany the exhibition, The Anatomy of Melancholy, at
    the Bethlem Museum of the Mind, The Maudsley NHS Trust, London, March 2019.




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Sannyāsa, Monasticism and Dual Belonging at ‘Dual Religious Belonging in Hinduism and
    Christianity’, Faculty of Divinity, University of Cambridge, July 2018. This will be published
    during the next REF cycle.
    Jeanne-Marie Guyon: Christian Mindfulness or Mystic Contemplation? at ‘Madame Guyon
    (1648 – 1717) Mystique et Politique à la Cour de Versailles’, Université de Genève,
    Switzerland, November 2017. Christian Mindfulness and Contemplative Dialogue at ‘Congrès
    Dialogue des Rationalités Culturelles et Religieuses’, Institut Catholique de Paris, June 2016.
 Wider Contribution to Society
         The wider contribution to society made by the Unit’s research often occurs through
 ecclesial channels. Our close collaboration with the national and international work of the Catholic
 church has provided numerous instances of the impact of our research. This has meant that the
 Unit, as detailed throughout this statement, has contributed significantly to ongoing debates
 concerning some of the most pressing religious and ethical questions of the day. Three examples
 of this are provided to conclude this statement by referencing the ongoing work of the Bioethics
 Centre and Professor Booth’s input to the work of Parliament as part of his role in the
 Benedict Centre.
         Since its inception one of the Bioethics Centre’s primary objectives has been to increase
 public awareness of bioethical issues. Since 2017 it has hosted four to six public seminars each
 year on topics ranging from Big Data in Healthcare to Regulating Bio-Law in 2050. The Centre
 also hosted an art exhibition in May 2017 by Antonia Rolls on the theme of “Graceful Death” in
 association with The Art of Dying Well project, which is also hosted at St Mary’s. In January 2020,
 the Centre hosted (in association with the Scottish Council for Human Bioethics) a two-day
 residential, fully grant-funded conference, which was free to the public, concerning the ethics of
 engendering post-human persons (part of the Unit’s ongoing commitment to an Open Research
 Environment as evidenced throughout this statement). This attracted an audience of 50 people.
 The proceedings from this conference are being published by Bloomsbury Academic in March
 2021 under the title ‘The Ethics of Generating Posthumans: Philosophical and Theological
 Reflections on the Creation of New Beings.’
         In 2015 H.H. Pope Francis appointed Dr Pia Matthews as an expert of the XIV Ordinary
 General Assembly of the Synod of Bishops in Rome. As an expert she helped the Special
 Secretary in the preparation of synodal documents and assisted the General Relator in the drafting
 of his report. This final report paved the way for Pope Francis's Apostolic Exhortation Amoris
 Laetitia. Dr Matthews has represented the Catholic Bishops' Conference of England and Wales at
 a conference organised by the Dicastery for Laity and Family Life. She presented a paper on
 catechesis and people with disabilities at the Pontifical Council for Promoting the New
 Evangelisation and this has fed into the Council's 2020 publication The New Directory for
 Catechesis.
         Finally, as a last example of the wider social impact of our research, mention is made of
 the work of Professor Booth in giving evidence at Parliamentary select committee hearings in the
 last six years. One of them (the Department for Work and Pensions Select Committee's Inter-
 Generational Fairness inquiry) related directly to his work on government debt, pension obligations
 and demographics:
 (see https://www.parliament.uk/business/committees/committees-a-z/commons-select/work-and-
 pensions-committee/inquiries/parliament-2015/intergenerational-fairness-15-16/publications/).
 As well as giving oral evidence Prof Booth’s statements were quoted in the final report.




                                                                                             Page 14
