Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Nottingham Trent University (NTU)

 Unit of Assessment: B12 – Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Solving modern engineering problems requires an interdisciplinary approach. At Nottingham Trent
 University (NTU) Engineering, we embed this principle in the way we do research, by bringing
 together complementary strands of multidisciplinary research in the applied sciences. Reflecting
 our interpretation of NTU’s institutional strategy, ‘Creating the University of the Future’, our vision
 is: ‘To create creative engineering and engineers that will shape the future world.’

 Building on the strengths documented in RAEs 2001/2008 and REF2014, we have enhanced our
 established world-class research in the areas of imaging and materials and expanded our
 research focus to include smart technologies and medical technologies. Since 2014, we have
 undergone a period of growth, with significant investment in staff recruitment and in facilities:

       we have added over 20 new academic positions across the Unit of Assessment (UoA),
        more than trebling its size;
       we have matched this with over £50m capital investment in three state of the art new
        buildings and corresponding equipment;
       this steep upward trajectory is reflected in our research income capture which delivered
        £1.7m/year of spend in REF2021 with a rising trend of £4.3m of new awards in 2020; and
       in our ability to attract high-profile award-winning scholars and in recognition such as the
        Queen’s Anniversary Prize.

 1.1 Engineering Research Unit Structure

 NTU maintains complementary structures for the development of teaching (by department) and
 research (by research centre). The B12 submission is structured around the Imaging, Materials
 and Engineering Centre (IMEC) and includes staff from the departments of Engineering, Physics,
 Maths, Chemistry and Computer Science, all housed within the School of Science and
 Technology. The School Research Management Team is led by the Associate Dean for Research
 (ADR), a role created for all academic schools at NTU since 2014 (see REF5a). The Team also
 comprises the four School Research Centre Directors and Postgraduate Research Tutor. The
 ADR is a member of the University Leadership Team and the Academic Research Leadership
 Team and collaborates closely with the Deputy Vice-Chancellor - Research and Enterprise.

 As a central point, IMEC coordinates activities supporting the development of a vibrant research
 community and an inclusive research culture. These include weekly seminar series,
 research/impact leave, and support for early career researchers (ECRs) and postgraduate
 researchers (PGRs). The Centre’s interests are balanced through an advisory group consisting of
 the relevant heads of department, departmental research coordinators and selected professors.
 The advisory group manages the distribution of resources available to IMEC and provides
 leadership related to the implementation of our research strategy, along with targeted support and
 mentoring.

 This interdisciplinary centre is then comprised of four research groups which represent critical
 masses of similar interests, and which aim to nurture highly impactful research. Expertise includes
 the different stages of impact (e.g. applied research, industry involvement and spin-out
 companies) working within each group.

       Imaging (in REF2014, Imaging and Sensing) encompasses cutting-edge non-invasive
        imaging techniques and their applications. Examples include: the Imaging Science lab,
        headed by Evans, whose pioneering X-ray technology can rapidly scan for the presence
        of illicit materials, with impact in airport security via spinout HALO X-ray (and cited in NTU’s
        Queen’s Anniversary Prize, 2015); and Liang’s ISAAC (Imaging and Sensing for

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Archaeology, Art History and Conservation) lab, whose suite of 3D spectral imaging,
        remote sensing and sub-surface imaging links to institutions including the British Museum,
        the National Gallery, the Smithsonian Institute and the Louvre.

       Advanced Materials (in REF2014, Bio-materials and Materials Engineering) describes
        our approach to the design of functional materials from the bottom up. Examples include:
        3D molecular scaffolds with tuneable functionalities for applications in catalysis and high-
        specificity sensors (Addicoat); Perry’s Biomolecular Materials Interface Research lab,
        which works at the boundary between biomolecules and other materials (recognised by
        the Royal Society Wolfson Merit Award); and the iSMART (Innovations in Surfaces,
        Materials and Related Technologies) facility of Stevens, Koutsogeorgis, and Kalfagiannis,
        which specialises in the custom-modification of surfaces, such as the self-assembly of
        nano-particle arrays with optical/photonic properties (e.g. for anti-counterfeiting
        applications). Our newest hire (Rahmani) in this area adds capabilities in nano-sensing
        and nano-materials, recognised by Royal Society and UKRI fellowships.

       Smart Technologies (developing from Imaging and Sensing in REF2014) is an approach
        for innovative engineering solutions that makes use of embedded sensors and control to
        produce truly responsive systems and materials. Examples include: smart wearables
        which unobtrusively collect data for healthcare and competitive sport applications (Wei,
        Faulkner in C24); arrays of vibration-sensors deployed in honeybee colonies to monitor
        swarm health and inform decision-making (Newton, Bencsik in C14); and the human
        factors lab, championed by Mansfield, which focusses on approaches to optimising human
        performance and well-being in the context of increasingly automated cyber-physical
        systems, including projects on autonomous vehicle occupants, aircraft, surgery expertise,
        and human-autonomy teaming.

       Medical Technologies (developing from Bio-materials and Materials Engineering in
        REF2014) describes the application of modern engineering and materials design to
        medical science. Examples include: tissue engineering for biomedical implants and
        regenerative medicine (Reinwald); bespoke 3D printing of composite bio-compatible
        materials for bone replacement (Siegkas); electrospinning nanofiber materials for wound
        dressing (Stevens); and breakthrough therapies, devices and technology to repair,
        augment and regenerate damaged tissues (Hunt).

 This structure, and the supporting infrastructure investment, is summarised in the figure below.




                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These groups reflect a balanced approach to hiring and staff development, each hosting a leading
 distinguished or senior professor (Evans, Perry, Mansfield and Hunt) as well as early and mid-
 career researchers (see §2.2.1). Within the framework of the four groups, smaller labs or teams
 are encouraged to develop as bottom-up collaborations.

 1.2 Research and Impact strategy

 1.2.1 Achievement of REF2014 research strategy

 In REF2014 we aimed to promote excellence in our engineering research via: (i) a new cross-
 disciplinary research facility with embedded industrial engagement and prototyping laboratories;
 (ii) growth of research and support staff; (iii) growth of international collaborations; and (iv)
 expanding our postgraduate courses. These aims have been achieved by:
   i.    Investing ~£50 million in UoA-focussed buildings (see §3.3) including the Interdisciplinary
         Science and Technology Centre (ISTeC, £11m, 2018), a new Engineering building (£23m,
         2019) and the Medical Technologies and Innovation Facility (MTIF, £23m, 2020, §1.2.2,
         §1.2.3, §3.2).
   ii.   Creating 20+ new research-active academic staff positions including two research-
         intensive early-career positions (§2.1.3). New support staff include two industrial liaison
         officers, six technical support staff in the Engineering building, a technical lead of our
         imaging suite and two technical support staff strengthening existing services.
  iii.   Growth of international collaboration such that the majority of our research publications in
         this REF review period have at least one international co-author (source: Scopus/SciVal,
         57% in 2020, compared to 37% in 2014), and academic hires in the period have been
         mainly international, enhancing our research network with their collaborations.
  iv.    New postgraduate courses including integrated-Masters MEng courses and the research-
         intensive degrees of MRes in Medical Imaging and MRes in Physics. These complement
         pre-existing postgraduate courses in Chemistry, Analytical Chemistry and Advanced
         Materials Chemistry, and reflect our established strengths in research-informed teaching.
 A suite of School-wide, long-term staffing initiatives aimed at increasing all research-active staff
 time for research is detailed in §2.1.1.

 1.2.2 Achievement of REF2014 impact strategy

 In REF2014 (REF3a), we aimed to: (i) Promote diverse end-user engagement of our research in
 Imaging/Sensing and Materials; (ii) Increase industrial collaboration, including impact fellowships
 and industry-linked postgraduate courses, and; (iii) Build industry collaborations, including through
 developing our iSMART advanced materials R&D hub infrastructure, resources and networks.
 These aims have been achieved by:
   i.    Our significant and diverse impact in the REF period, showcased in our Impact Case
         Studies. These range from keeping an estimated 5.56 billion person-journeys of the flying
         public safe in the US alone using NTU-enabled novel X-ray security screening systems,
         through enabling the Louvre’s successful 2016 restoration of Leonardo da Vinci’s ’Saint
         John the Baptist’ that employed NTU’s novel optical imaging instruments, to providing the
         ‘brain’ of the 17 metre metal ‘Hive’ immersive artwork that has brought honeybee
         conservation issues to over 5 million visitors of the 2015 Milan World Expo and Kew
         Gardens.
   ii.   Our staff have secured 13 Innovate UK projects, including KTP, Feasibility, and Innovate
         UK/EPSRC R&D grants, with NTU as lead or participant organisation. Through these we
         have partnered with 19 companies across 8 English regions on projects worth £3.0m in
         total (£701k NTU income). On KTP projects (§3.1) high-calibre associates enable
         technology transfer, supported by NTU academic expertise, with, for example, an
         associate permanently employed after a KTP with Cole-Parmer Ltd. The new industry-


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
             linked MEng courses (§1.2.1) were developed in consultation with 26 businesses across
             Biomedical, Electronic and Sport Engineering industrial sectors.
  iii.       We secured £9.7m competitive D2N2 Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP) Regional
             Development co-funding to support the building of a new Medical Technologies and
             Innovation Facility at the University, TRL1-TRL2 Research Centre, and on the Boots
             Enterprise Zone, TRL3-TRL6 Technology and Prototyping Centre (§1.2.1, §1.2.3, §3.2).
             MTIF was conceived by industry sector professionals from NTU’s strategic partners,
             MediCity Nottingham, Medilink East Midlands, Cheata Clinical Trials, Derby Teaching
             Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust, and Boots
             plc. Market insight was gleaned from 25 interviews with CEOs and MDs responsible for
             business growth and new product development of D2N2-based healthcare companies.
             Senior academic staff from iSMART contributed significantly to the bid, planning, and
             implementation stages.

 1.2.3 Enabling and facilitating impact

 The UoA has provided a range of sustainable mechanisms to help incubate optimal impact of our
 research at all stages, and we have targeted resources including funds, studentships and
 sabbaticals, towards prioritising cases for support with planned impact routes. Examples include:
            The realisation of impact of Evans’ research on aviation safety (HALO X-ray Technologies
             Ltd Impact Case Study) was underpinned by extensive NTU support and investment,
             including work to patent the technology and arrange licensing terms (IP Manager), and
             spin-out the company including developing the business model and launching the
             company in the MediCity business incubator supported by NTU loans. The underpinning
             research was supported by 3 NTU-funded PhD studentships.
            The realisation of impact of Bencsik and Newton’s research (The ‘Hive’ Impact Case Study)
             that produced machine-learning algorithms analysing real-time honeybee colony activity
             on the creation of major competitive sculpture installations (the ‘Hive’) at Milan Expo and
             Kew gardens and in the Middle East (‘Project B’), was supported by travel funds, sabbatical
             and teaching buy-out, and two funded PhD studentships. Funding and technical and
             estates resource enabled the custom-built apiary infrastructure.
            The realisation of impact of Liang’s research (Cultural Heritage Assets Impact Case Study)
             was supported with funds for bridging skilled research staff between external/industry
             contracts to retain a senior research fellow which provided critical stability of skills and
             expertise for impact development.
            Morris and Newton’s development of a new class of MRI/Radiotherapy-compatible patient-
             positioning boards using natural fibre composites was supported by seedcorn funds from
             NTU’s Enabling Innovation Programme and validated using our new MRI Imaging Facility
             (2016) leading to Innovate UK funding with project partner Medibord Ltd.
             Commercialisation was enabled by sabbatical/impact leave and supported by the School
             Commercialisation Officer, with IPR protection. The first sales, since March 2020, have
             improved the treatment of hundreds of cancer patients, and collaborations with Ohio State
             University and OncoRay (Germany) have led to auxiliary products.
 Other examples include: NTU Strategic Theme (§1.3) seedcorn support, e.g. Zhang’s human trial
 of belts to monitor foetal motion; staff recruited from technology translation institutes, e.g. Afazov
 from manufacturing technology centre catapult; equipment support for Stevens’ applications of
 electrospinning in biomedicine, matched by external funds and leading to two patents, IP
 commercialisation and Innovate UK funding; contributions to site-licenses of ANSYS modelling
 software, along with industry workshops/seminars on its applications, leading to bespoke
 packages and a network of international industry partners (e.g. Bridgestone Japan).
 The impact showcased in the case studies from our more mature groups reflects our pedigree of
 excellence in imaging and sensing. These, and further examples in §4.2, also reflect our strong
 commitment to interdisciplinary research.


                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.2.4 Research and Impact objectives

 As we consolidate from a period of growth, our overarching ambition is to use this expansion to
 extend and enhance our international reputation for creative engineering and engineers. To this
 end, we will:
   i.    Develop innovative technologies towards future manufacturing and engineering practice.
 For example, Rahmani’s £1.2m UKRI Future Leaders fellowship will use photonics and
 nanotechnology to upgrade glass surfaces to NIR-imaging devices, while Evans’ new £1m EPSRC
 project will apply sporadic sampling to improve the efficiency of X-ray diffraction to identify powders
 and soft materials in next-generation imaging systems for security. The infrastructure investment
 (MTIF/ISTeC/SWIFt) supporting our Medical and Smart Technologies groups is further aimed at
 developing a >£4m/year income stream via contract research and industry-sponsored projects.
   ii.   Foster complementary pathways to impact by academic, industrial and civic partnerships.
 For example, with match-funding from the D2N2 local enterprise partnership and working with the
 Digital Catapult, NTU is investing £800k in a Smart Wireless Innovation Facility (SWIFt, see §3.3)
 as part of our ‘Smart Campus’ initiative. SWIFt will be a centre for developing 5G and other
 wireless applications and will create a testbed for researchers and enterprise. To support this
 facility, and to shape the research direction of the Smart Technologies group, we will establish a
 new Chair in Digital Engineering Innovations.
  iii.   Exploit our interdisciplinary strength to develop novel applications of engineering problems.
 For example, a £486k project newly awarded to Perry combines research in microbiology,
 engineering and materials to enable the tailoring of future functional composite materials based
 on fungal mycelia. Similarly, recent AHRC capital investment of £898k will enable Liang to stay at
 the forefront of heritage science research and benefit national and international collections. This
 is further supported by NTU’s first Research Peak in Cultural Heritage (£500K pa investment,
 REF5a), with Liang as co-lead, which brings together state-of-the-art scientific methods for
 analysing and preserving heritage with an understanding of the cultural context, involving
 collaborations in over 20 countries.
  iv.    Address societal grand challenges such as aging society and sustainability.
 The investment in MTIF will accelerate the translation of our Medical Technologies research
 towards personalised medicine improving the quality of care. This ambition will be achieved by
 provision of state-of-the-art research and incubation facilities and by linking researchers to industry
 and clinicians. Our recently awarded BBSRC Doctoral Training Partnership with the University of
 Nottingham (§2.2) will provide further investment to this area. We will also establish a new chair
 and group in Sustainable Engineering to address energy challenges in the context of diminishing
 resources.
   v.    Recruit and support excellent researchers, embedding diversity, inclusion and innovation
         in our ways of working.
 Our objective is to recruit, support and retain the highest quality staff aligned to our research
 groups, with a focus on developing early career staff to research leadership. This is particularly
 important with the planned growth of the Engineering Department by over 20 more academic staff
 to 2025.

 1.3 Approach to Interdisciplinary Research

 NTU proactively supports inter-disciplinary approaches to research and has structures that
 encourage collaboration across academic disciplines. At the forefront of these are NTU’s Strategic
 Research Themes, supported by targeted resources totalling £1.8m across the REF cycle (see
 REF5a). These bring together cross-disciplinary teams to collaborate on innovative responses to
 the challenges faced by stakeholders.



                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The structure of IMEC, including engineering as well as allied branches of the applied sciences,
 naturally lends itself to encouraging interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary research. We do this in
 a variety of ways, including:
       Our research groups are cross-departmental by design, and smaller teams are
        encouraged to follow this direction. As typical examples: our engineering design and
        simulation team provides a forum for the exchange of insight and technical expertise in
        modelling research from the density functional theory of interfaces (Shuttleworth, physics)
        to the search-based design of functional materials (Addicoat, chemistry) and the
        simulation-based design of 4D metamaterials (Bodaghi, engineering) whereas our smart
        wearables team combines approaches from physics (Newton/Morris, designing sensing
        elements into yarn) and engineering (Yang/Navaraj, incorporating flexible electronic
        circuits into clothing) members.
       Similarly, our shared research infrastructure (§3.2) is aimed at supporting excellent
        research across the School, regardless of discipline; most labs have an open-door policy
        of at-cost use by other researchers. This is facilitated by technical support staff, training
        and equipment which operate outside any specific department. For example, the Imaging
        Suite, and its technical manager, supports the characterisation of novel biomaterials,
        plasmonic sensors, colloidal materials and so on.
       To encourage cross-disciplinary discussion and collaboration, the School’s Science and
        Technology Annual Research (STAR) conference brings together speakers from across
        the STEM disciplines, with high-profile external speakers and a trade/employment show.

 Reflecting this support for multidisciplinary research, IMEC has active collaborations with the
 Schools: of Animal, Rural and Environmental Sciences (Burton, silica supplements in animal feed);
 Arts and Humanities (Hodgson, materials analysis of historical manuscripts); Architecture, Design
 and Built Environment (Al-Habaibeh, smart buildings); and Art and Design (Downes, image
 processing). NTU Engineering is cross-disciplinary across a wide range of arts as well as sciences.

 1.4 Strategy for an open research environment

 Recognising the value of open access to the outputs of publicly funded research and anticipating
 the move towards an ever-more open research environment, IMEC’s open-research strategy
 combines basic requirements with additional encouragements and incentives to develop a culture
 of open research.

 Specifically, we work to ensure that all research outputs are made open access via our institutional
 repository (IRep); monthly summaries are compiled by library research support, such that
 oversights may be addressed promptly. We aim for open access for all publications, including
 reviews, book chapters, etc.. Many academic staff also use preprint servers to increase their
 work’s reach (e.g. ~65 arXiv preprints deposited between 2014-2020). Support and advocacy
 around open research are provided by the library with all staff made aware of their responsibilities,
 and the available resources, at induction.

 We also actively encourage staff to go above and beyond these minimum requirements. We have
 been supported in this by the NTU Open Access Publication Fund, which has provided immediate
 gold open access to selected outputs, prioritising expected high-quality contributions. Within IMEC
 this fund has invested £112k in supporting 55 open access publications. Additionally, publisher
 deals (e.g. Wiley, Springer, SAGE) allow NTU authors to publish via the gold route at no cost.

 Furthermore, the UoA works with the University leadership to encourage appropriate data
 management and sharing. In accordance with the Concordat on Open Research Data, we require
 a research data management plan for all new research projects. Library services offer training for
 and liaise with academic staff and assist in the planning and implementation of funding
 opportunities with data management requirements. Again, we actively encourage staff to go
 beyond any required needs. As examples: Addicoat, Benjamin and Wei routinely publish open

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 data supplements alongside their papers, including prominent work (Nature Comms. 7:12325,
 6:7786; RSC Adv. 7:48754;); Goehring has published environmental data on a public repository
 (doi.org:10.5194/essd-12-2881-2020), and has work used as an exemplar in a Communications
 Physics editorial on open science (doi.org:10.1038/s42005-020-00403-4); and Addicoat, Wei and
 Vanheusden publish open-source codes, or code incorporated into open software packages.

 1.5 Supporting a culture of research integrity

 We are committed to the highest standards of research integrity and the relevant professional
 frameworks including the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. Matters relating to research
 integrity, including research ethics, Code of Practice for Research, and a Responsible Metrics
 Statement are overseen centrally (see REF5a) and managed locally. Robust scrutiny of projects
 requiring ethical approval undertaken by staff and PGR candidates within the UoA is overseen by
 specific School of Science and Technology-wide Research Ethics Committees (invasive human,
 non-invasive, animal, GMO work). This ensures projects are scrutinised from different disciplinary
 perspectives. Training resources are available to all staff and students in the form of online
 modules which cover different aspects of research integrity. This central resource complements
 training arrangements at local level, which are designed to meet the needs of specific committees.
 Our library Research Data Management Officer provides advice and support on GDPR and safe
 and secure data archiving. Training on good research practice is promoted as part of ongoing
 professional development. GDPR, equality and diversity, and unconscious bias training are
 required for all staff members.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 We aim to strategically recruit and thoughtfully develop strong research-active staff at all stages
 of their career. We ensure a positive, diverse and collaborative working environment, where staff
 are motivated, performing highly and empowered to realise their career ambitions. This approach
 is informed by and implements the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development
 of Researchers and the Vitae Researcher Developer Framework.

 The success of our strategy is evidenced by our excellent staff retention and promotion record,
 our ability to attract award-winning world-class researchers, and high levels of staff satisfaction.

 2.1.1 Staffing and Recruitment policy

 Taking advantage of a period of rapid growth and investment has allowed for a hiring strategy
 aimed at (i) enhancing the proven potential of our two established groups (imaging and advanced
 materials) while also (ii) building up sustainable teams in medical and smart technologies, and (iii)
 maintaining our characteristic interdisciplinary strength. This strategy also makes best use of
 concurrent expansion of buildings and infrastructure (§3.2). Highlights include: launching a general
 Engineering Department, whose members join teams of established applied scientists working
 across disciplinary boundaries; the recruitment of key staff with experience in the translation of
 research from academic to industrial/applied environments (§1.3); the creation of independent
 research fellowships intended to foster the next-generation of research leaders; and strategic high-
 level appointments intended to guide and inspire our growth in medical and smart technologies.

 During the assessment period the UoA has grown significantly, trebling in size from 15 staff (14.6
 FTE) in 2014 to our current 48 members (47.2 FTE). Mostly this results from the new general
 Engineering Department, with its first courses delivered in 2017-18: since 2016 we have added
 approximately 3-5 new academic staff positions in engineering annually (currently 18 Category A
 staff, including two sports-engineering academics returned in C24).

 This growth of the UoA has been guided by staffing policies including:


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Recruitment of world-leading, high-level staff to provide research leadership: Mansfield
        (2016, from Imperial) to head the Engineering Department with his unique vision of human
        factors engineering; Hunt (2017, Liverpool), who specialises in biomedical materials and
        tissue engineering, as a Head of MTIF and lead of NTU’s Medical Technologies and
        Advanced Materials Research Priority; Biggs as Head of College (2018, Dean of School
        of Science, Loughborough) to champion equality issues (e.g. lead in NTU Athena SWAN)
        and international networking; and Rahmani (2020, Australian National University) who
        adds new award-winning directions to our materials group involving tuneable
        nanostructured materials.
       A School initiative to expand academic ‘headroom’ and increase the average allocation of
        research time for research-active staff via additional staffing, without commensurate
        increases in teaching. This resulted in two new positions aligned with our materials group,
        in soft and advanced materials (Goehring, from Max Planck Society and Volodkin, from
        Fraunhofer).
       The creation of a new role of academic associate, a 5-year position that combines PhD
        training with teaching duties. These roles provide training for future leaders outside the
        traditional research-intensive academic roles and add teaching capacity to the School.
       An Independent Research Fellowship programme with two UoA-relevant hires (Addicoat,
        previously at Universität Leipzig, and Kalfagiannis, retained from a Marie Curie Fellowship)
        in advanced materials. This early-career opportunity is also intended as succession
        planning, for replacement of retiring senior staff with new ambitious and high-achieving
        researchers (§2.1.3).
       Impact-targeted hires of staff with experience of academic/industry crossover, such as
        Abdelgaied (medical devices, e.g. Tissue Regenix), Afazov (High-value Manufacturing
        Catapult Centre), Richards (QinetiQ/Ministry of Defence) and Simpson (ANSYS).

 On the census date IMEC consisted of 9 professors (8.6 FTE), 10 associate professors/principal
 lecturers (10 FTE) and 29 lecturers/senior lecturers (28.6 FTE). Thus, the UoA retains a balanced
 structure with good staff representation at all levels, allowing for the long-term sustainability of
 career progression. Excepting our independent research fellows (‘tenure-track’ positions), all
 Category A staff are permanently employed. The UoA also has high levels of staff retention. For
 example, of the 15 staff returned in REF2014, 12 remain at NTU. Of these, the majority have been
 promoted during the intervening period: one to senior lecturer; three to associate professor; one
 to principal lecturer; one to professor; and two to Distinguished Professor.

 2.1.2 Staff Development Strategy

 NTU operates a system of Academic Career Pathways (see REF5a) and through this ~60% of
 staff in the School of Science and Technology have significant responsibility for research and thus
 a core allocation of time protected each year to engage in research, as reflected in their individual
 workload plan. All staff, including research, support, and technical staff, participate in an annual
 appraisal cycle with their line manager that includes three formal meetings per year to set and
 review objectives and workload. Newly hired staff are typically hired with a one-year probation
 period that follows a similar cycle, but with an additional independent mentor to guide them through
 the process of integrating into the University and IMEC.

 Outstanding research accomplishments by our academic staff are celebrated and recognised by
 the University in various ways including the Vice-Chancellor’s Outstanding Researcher Award
 scheme. Academic staff in the UoA are well-represented in these awards, including Chappell
 (early career researcher award, 2016), Addicoat (early career researcher award, 2019) and Liang
 (established researcher award, 2020).

 Within the UoA, all research-active staff below professorial level are paired with a research mentor.
 These relationships are designed by mutual agreement and typically involve overlap in research
 areas within the same group, adding to the sustainability of the research environment. With their

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mentors, staff develop Individual Research Plans that identify short-term goals to feed into
 appraisal objectives and longer-term goals in relation to career progression. Mentors also help
 ECRs identify funding opportunities and develop funding applications, as per our early career
 research policy (§2.1.3).

 Staff have access to a wide range of development opportunities. These are coordinated through
 NTU’s Researcher Development Framework and aligned to Vitae, which champions the personal,
 professional and career development of research staff. Over 50 modules include: essential
 learning for all staff (e.g. equality and diversity, GDPR, unconscious bias, health and safety);
 School-specific development coordinated by our research support librarians (e.g. data
 management and open access, maximising research impact); research leadership training
 including workshops on postgraduate research supervision and the design of independent
 research programmes; workshops and individual support for HEA fellowship applications; health
 and well-being workshops, and so on. Additionally, a themed quarterly researcher forum allows
 for a rolling induction of topics to staff; past themes include the Concordat for the Career
 Development of Researchers and Publishing and Open Access.

 Staff survey results consistently show high levels of staff satisfaction with our environment. For
 example, in the 2018 survey, in our main constituent departments, over 90% agreed with
 statements of positive job satisfaction (“Generally, I enjoy my work” or “My work gives me a sense
 of personal achievement”) and collegiality (“I feel valued by my colleagues” or “I am satisfied with
 the support I get from my work colleagues”).

 2.1.3 Early Career Researcher (ECR) Support

 Given our recent expansion, early career researcher (ECR) support is particularly important to the
 long-term strategy and the sustainability of the UoA’s research. A wide range of support for ECRs
 is available, including:
       Tailored aspects of the appraisal cycle and staff development opportunities (see REF5a),
        including an Early Career Academic Development Programme and a Winning Grant
        Funding Programme;
       New ECR staff are paired with both a research mentor (from their department/research
        group) and a teaching mentor;
       IMEC regularly contributes to the start-up costs of researchers, to help establish their
        research capability, including nine grants totalling over £65k in the REF period. The School
        allocates funds directly for ECR research support, e.g. £250k in 2019/20 academic year;
       ECRs can revitalise a research stream with new expertise and techniques. Thus, they are
        prioritised with new equipment through a capital investment programme (School-wide
        ~£1M/year, see §3.2). For example, Khalid secured his first EPSRC project grant (£60k)
        based on capital investment in our robotics lab;
       ECRs are prioritised in internal competitions for research funds, to help them become self-
        sufficient in grant income, e.g. funding for a six-month postdoc helped develop Benjamin’s
        successful EPSRC First Grant proposal;
       Similarly, ECRs are prioritised with studentships, and senior academics are encouraged to
        pair with ECRs on such bids and on PhD supervision teams; and
       ECRs benefit from reduced teaching load over the first three years of starting a new
        position, with additional protected research time in their academic workload.
 An example of our ECR strategy is the Independent Research Fellowship programme. These 5-
 year ECR roles with reduced teaching (initially 50 rising to 100 contact hours/year) and dedicated
 research support (£10k/year) are intended as ‘tenure-track’ routes to permanent lectureships. Of
 our two fellows, hired in 2016:
       Kalfagiannis adds long-term sustainability to our advanced materials group. His rapidly
        developing research leadership includes conference organisation, guest editorship,

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        multiple PhD supervisions, and a visiting academic position (Ioannina). His research in
        thin-films received £200k of NTU capital investment (IR Spectroscopic Ellipsometer
        system, also developed into MSci lab demonstration), and attracted a KTP to exploit
        security applications of photonics (Opsec Security) and a Competitive Research Grant
        (KAUST, project budget $1.5M) to develop photonic processing of metal-oxide thin-film
        transistors.
       Addicoat revitalises our computational-focussed engineering design and simulation team
        and brings focus to a cluster of research excellence involving the smart design of materials.
        He was supported by additions to our high-performance computing (HPC) facilities in 2017
        and has been primary supervisor on two PhD projects. His work is prolific and high-profile
        (>40 peer-reviewed publications since hire, including in Science, Nature Communications,
        Angewandte Chemie) and he has recently attracted an EPSRC New Investigator Award
        and a Royal Society International Exchange grant.

 Postdoctoral researchers are supported by a similar range of professional development
 opportunities as other ECR staff and participate in NTU’s Researcher Development Framework
 and Appraisal cycle. Additionally, to assist their transition into a full academic career, they are
 guided by regular career development meetings with senior academic staff and can take Careers
 and Employability Service courses. UKRI-funded researchers teach up to 3 hours per week and
 are supported by experienced module leaders in building their experience from project and lab
 supervision to developing and delivering lectures and examining on taught modules. The UoA’s
 approach to attracting and supporting high-quality postdoctoral researchers can be demonstrated
 by the career prospects of former researchers, including e.g. Ladak (lecturer, Cardiff); Roach
 (lecturer, Loughborough); Wells (lecturer, Edinburgh); Baldwin (lecturer, NTU); Hamlett (outreach
 officer, Birmingham); and Evans (systems engineer, Rolls-Royce).

 2.2 Research Students

 Postgraduate researchers (PGRs) are an integral part of our research culture. As with staff
 numbers, our PGR programme is expanding, with 39 PhDs awarded in the census period,
 compared to 27 during the last period. As with staff numbers and grant income, PGR intake has
 increased more rapidly in recent years, with 51 PGR candidates currently in progress with a
 Director of Studies in IMEC.

 This growth of a dynamic and sustainable population of research students has been supported by
 a diverse strategy of securing PGR funding, including:
       NTU PhD Studentships are competitive, fully-funded scholarships that cover tuition and
        stipends and have supported 35 PGRs in our UoA since 2013.
       NTU’s Match-Fund scheme (launched 2016) covers half of PGR costs, where an external
        sponsor contributes the other half. It is particularly attractive to industrial and applied
        partnerships in IMEC, with five funded projects to date (see §4.2).
       Industrial CASE awards (e.g. Brown with Merck for liquid crystal devices) and projects fully
        funded by industry (e.g. Perry with AbVista for exploiting silica as nutritional supplement).
       BBSRC Doctoral Training Partnership, led by the University of Nottingham. Aligned with
        NTU’s Medical Technologies and Advanced Materials strategic theme, this £15m
        programme started in 2020. Proposed projects from our UoA include functional scaffolding
        for tissue regeneration (Volodkin) and modelling age-related bone loss (Hunt).
       The national Doctoral Training Alliance (DTA) Energy and Applied Biosciences for Health
        programmes have funded several PhD projects (Gao, Volodkin and Giannakidis).
       AHRC studentships for heritage science applications of our imaging group, involving the
        National Gallery (material properties of varnishes), the British Museum (conservation of
        vitreous materials) and the British Library (maritime silk road).



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Support for the PGR community is coordinated by the Doctoral School (see REF5a) and School-
 level Postgraduate Research Tutors. This includes:
 Recruitment. To ensure a fair, consistent approach the School’s PGR tutor, or deputy, normally
 chairs all PGR interviews. These chairs are trained in this role, including unconscious bias training.
 Applicants are expected to have a master’s degree or a first-class honours degree.

 Supervision. Supervisory teams include at least two NTU staff with experience of at least two
 PhD completions between them. All supervisors attend a two-day training course and are invited
 to meetings of the School Supervisors’ Forum, which supports best practice in the supervisor
 community. External supervision is possible and encouraged for industry/match-funded PhDs.

 Monitoring. Students typically meet their supervisors weekly and prepare at least 12 documented
 supervision-meeting reports per year. Progress is formally monitored via a supervisory panel and
 independent assessor, with annual monitoring as well as key deliverables around Month 6 (Project
 Approval) and Month 18 (Transfer from MPhil to PhD).

 Training. Training opportunities are covered during induction with the School PGR tutor and
 postgraduate representative and reviewed as part of annual monitoring. The NTU Doctorate Plus
 Programme (see REF5a) maps PGR training to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework,
 the requirements of the UK Research Councils and the Quality Assurance Agency.
 School-specific training supplements NTU-wide opportunities, such that PGRs can create
 bespoke packages of activities to support their development. This includes workshops in research
 methods, report writing, project management, research data management, and equality and
 diversity awareness. An effective researcher course is targeted at first-year PGRs, and additional
 English classes for researchers with English as a second language. Training in research methods
 can include specialised equipment (e.g. AFM, SEM/TEM, 3D printing) and software (e.g. Matlab,
 ANSYS, CAD). The School also coordinates subject-specific health and safety training.
 Throughout their degrees, PGRs have opportunities to share their research and develop
 presentation skills, including:
       In our School-wide STAR conference (§1.4) PGRs typically present a poster in their first
        year and a talk in their second. In 2020 presentations were adapted to an online/virtual
        setting, incorporating a 3-minute thesis competition.
       All departments run weekly seminar series, with a mixture of invited external and internal
        speakers from engineering and related disciplines. PGRs are invited to present their work
        at a full seminar in their third year.
       Many of our teams and labs coordinate their own research meetings, with informal
        opportunities for PGR presentations, such as practice talks for conferences.
 The success of our PGR strategy can be seen in our high level of on-time thesis submission rates
 (89% for 2017/2018) and the overall satisfaction of PGRs in the School, as tracked in the
 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES), which has averaged 82% since 2014.

 2.3 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI)

 Our School is a vibrant place to work, enriched by the diversity of perspectives, cultures and
 backgrounds brought by our students, staff, visitors, and local, national and international partners.
 Within IMEC we recognise that diverse teams encourage more creative and innovative solutions
 to engineering problems and, supported by the Royal Academy of Engineering, we recently
 appointed a Visiting Professor in Human Factors: Innovation Through Diversity, to apply human
 factors engineering to drive change through inclusive, mission-led innovation.

 The University was awarded the bronze Athena Swan charter mark in April 2019 (see REF5a) and
 targets a silver submission in 2023. Supporting this, our School strategy aims at departmental
 Athena Swan submissions from 2022; application teams are currently conducting reviews,
 including cultural surveys on gender identification, promotion prospects and support, as a basis
                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for developing an action plan for moving towards gender equality. Our School’s Athena Swan
 Champion leads these efforts and coordinates School-level EDI activities including nominations
 to the Advance HE Aurora programme (6 in the School in REF2021), events for International
 Women’s week, international women in engineering day, Black History month, and LGBT History
 month, the installation of an on-campus nursing room for nursing mothers, and maintenance of an
 EDI intranet with links to staff networks, policies and resources. Our Engineering course manager
 (Smith) is also a trustee of the Women’s Engineering Society, and we share its aim to support and
 inspire women to achieve as engineers, scientists and leaders.

 Recruitment across the School has transitioned, through gender decoding of recruitment materials
 and mixed-gender interview panels, to attract a more diverse staff pool. Staff training improves
 knowledge and understanding of equality and diversity within the workplace and we have
 introduced mandatory unconscious bias training for all staff. Across all academic and research
 staff in our School, 32% identify as women (28% in 2014), 16% identify as Black Asian and Minority
 Ethnic (13% in 2014), and 4% declared with a disability in 2019 (4% in 2014). We support (and,
 within IMEC, have reached) NTU’s institutional target to increase the representation of women
 within the professoriate to 35% by 2022. Furthermore, we encourage a flexible and inclusive
 approach for staff working from home, or remotely. The Support of Academic Returners (SOAR)
 scheme funds up £5k following a period of caring-related leave to support career pathway
 development (e.g. one recipient bought out teaching time to finish two papers), while IMEC has
 prioritised several internal funding requests related to flexible working arrangements or parental
 leave (e.g. ~£5k contract extensions or variations).

 Staff perception of EDI issues is very positive. For the main departments composing IMEC, the
 2018 staff survey showed 84-100% agreement with all statements of equality of opportunity and
 protected characteristics, including “I believe the University is committed to equality of opportunity
 for all of its staff” (93%) or “I feel the University acts fairly, regardless of protected characteristics
 regard to development opportunities” (92%).

 Finally, our REF submission and output portfolio were developed in accordance with our
 institutional code of practice. Category A staff were advised by email about the window for the
 voluntary declaration of Individual Staff Circumstances, and the University’s Head of Equality,
 Diversity, Inclusion and Wellbeing provided a Q&A session and debrief for IMEC.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Reflecting the recent period of strategic growth of our research base, the UoA has benefitted from
 significant investment in infrastructure and facilities. This includes over £50m of new buildings and
 research labs, targeted to our newer medical and smart technologies groups. This investment has
 started to see returns in increased grant capture and external income, in line with our forward-
 looking strategy prioritising a sustainable research environment (§1.2).

 3.1 Income

 The UoA attracts a diverse stream of research income, reflecting its multidisciplinary and
 international strengths. In addition to the research councils (AHRC, BBSRC, EPSRC and STFC),
 we have received significant investment from the US Air Force and Department of Homeland
 Security, the National Grid, Merck and Bridgestone, KTP agreements and match-funded
 studentships (§2.2/4.2) with industry, and competitive in-kind support, particularly from X-
 ray/neutron facilities. As a result, the average annual research income in the REF period has risen
 to £1.7m (from £1.4m/year for REF2014). Much of this growth has been within the past three
 years, reflecting successful grant capture from new hires in the Engineering Department; in 2020
 staff in our UoA secured £4.3m in external funding.




                                                                                                   Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Exemplary of the multidisciplinary nature of the UoA’s impact, and our network of collaborations,
 we currently participate in four EU Horizon 2020 projects (€19.7m combined value with £1.2m to
 NTU):
        ComfDemo (Mansfield, Vanheusden and Faulkner in C24) is a collaboration between NTU,
         VHP Human Performance and German research institutes. Using Mansfield’s expertise in
         human factors and ergonomics, it aims to improve comfort on turboprop air travel.
        B-Good (Newton, Bencsik in C14 and Chuzhanova in A03) involves 17 partners in 13
         countries, succeeding the FP7 Swarmonitor programme (REF3 Impact Case Study). It
         seeks to use a broad spectrum of data collection (smart technologies) to monitor hives for
         health and risk assessment.
        TopSpec (Kilgour) involves 8 partners and aims to develop a ground-breaking top-down
         tandem mass spectroscopy platform capable of rapidly sequencing antibodies and other
         large proteins/molecules. Involving eight partners and industries, this applies our medical
         technologies focus towards solving one of the greatest challenges in the top-down mass
         spectroscopy of large molecules.
        IPERION HS (Liang) is a consortium of 67 institutions from 23 countries contributing to a
         pan-European research infrastructure on heritage science, offering training and access to
         a wide range of high-level scientific instruments, methodologies, data and tools for
         advancing knowledge and innovation in heritage science. NTU participates via our ISAAC
         Lab providing mobile remote imaging and spectroscopy facilities (see REF3).
 Evans’ £5.2m US Department of Homeland Security contract has allowed for exploitation of a
 breakthrough in multiple-view imaging in the field of airport security (see REF3). The results,
 published in a series of Optics Express papers and protected by patents commercialised by spin-
 off company HALO X-ray Technologies Ltd, have enabled deployment of over 6,000 next-
 generation X-ray aviation security systems worldwide, with a follow-up test underway at Schiphol
 Airport.

 Liang’s £200k National Grid project has likewise applied our imaging focus to a new industry,
 specifically to the remote detection of corrosion during inspection of electricity towers and
 substations.

 Perry’s US Air Force Office of Scientific Research funding (2 awards, £1m total) has led to
 fundamental understanding of the events occurring at bio-materials interfaces. Combined with
 work on biomolecular binding on silica, it has led to numerous publications and has been taken up
 by Toyota, Samsung and Corning (e.g. anti-finger printing surfaces).

 Knowledge Transfer Partnerships are another significant part of our research income strategy,
 with their particular potential for long-term impact. Following a concerted campaign to increase
 funding in this area, including regular School-led KTP workshops, the UoA has been successful
 in capturing Innovate UK awards worth £800k, including those with OpSec Security (Kalfagiannis,
 Koutsogeorgis), Cole-Parmer Ltd. (Fairhurst), Far-UK Ltd. (Chappell), Opus International
 Consultants Ltd. (Liang) and Tecquipment Limited (Simpson).

 Reflecting the strengths of our Imaging group, we are also particularly successful in competition
 for time at advanced imaging facilities such as synchrotrons/neutron sources (e.g.
 ISIS/Diamond/ESRF/CLF), generating ~£400k of STFC research-income-in-kind and a match-
 funded PhD studentship that includes a further ~£180k of beam-time at the Diamond Light Source.
 More prominent results have included: development of a microfluidics goniometer utilising acoustic
 signals to rotate crystals (doi:10.1039/C7LC00812K), currently being installed at Diamond for
 general use; and elucidation of fractional crystallisation effects in colloids, allowing for novel routes
 to complex crystal formation (doi:10.1103/PhysRevLett.124.058003).

 Finally, three of our ECR staff have attracted ECR-focussed funding, in the form of an EPSRC first
 grant (Benjamin, to design a new Lewis acid catalyst, and Chappell for stochastic modelling of


                                                                                                  Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 transport operators) or new investigator award (Addicoat, to develop flexible molecular framework
 materials). Other ECR successes include: Richards’ Defence Science and Technology Laboratory
 award to develop human-autonomy working teams; Abdelgaied’s collaboration with Leeds to study
 wear in artificial limbs; and Khalid’s EPSRC/PepsiCo award to study occupational safety in the
 context of smart factories.

 3.2 Facilities

 New build: NTU has made significant infrastructure investments since 2014, commensurate with
 strategic growth in engineering and reflecting our research strengths. Three new buildings have
 transformed our Clifton Campus, designed to enhance research and research-informed teaching
 in the STEM disciplines in general, and in engineering in particular.

       The Engineering Building (£23 M, 4370 m2, completed 2019) focuses on the ‘Engineer of
        the Future’, including facilities for applied research in Industry 4.0 and:
            o     Houses extensive labs including: robotics/drone lab (e.g. sensors and coordination
                  in drone swarms; industrial robots for human-robot automation); virtual reality suite
                  (vehicle ergonomics; Bridgestone); biosensors suite (smart wearables);
                  aerodynamics lab; fluids lab; mechanical testing suite; human factors suite with
                  isolated recording lab (industrial psychology applications); mechanical workshop;
                  3D printing suite; sports lab (professional cycling; Huub); controlled environment
                  chamber (human factors; sports engineering); biomedical engineering suite;
                  medical engineering design suite (medical robots); and nano-photonics lab. These
                  open-plan labs are designed around combining teaching and research
                  opportunities in the same space, emphasising our commitment to research-
                  informed teaching methods.
            o     Acts as a centre for commercial activity and industry partnership in industrial
                  digitisation, including companies such as Bridgestone, Siemens, PepsiCo, ANSYS
                  and Fujitsu.
            o     Will host the Smart Wireless Innovation Facility (SWIFt, see also §1.2.1), a ‘living
                  lab’ that will have the capacity to connect up to a thousand devices and provide
                  cross-technology capability that allows businesses and other users to test and
                  develop 5G-enabled solutions. This will include workshop equipment, development
                  sensors, data loggers and a rapid PCB prototyping system.
       The Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (ISTeC, £11m including £5m from
        HEFCE/Research England, 800 m2 research wing, completed 2017) brings STEM subjects
        together to support collaboration between different subject areas, outreach activities, and
        industry engagement. Within our context, this includes:
            o     Hosting the Imaging and Sensing for Archaeology, Art History and Conservation
                  (ISAAC) laboratory, with a suite of in-house and mobile non-invasive optical
                  instruments and users such as the British Museum and National Grid.
            o     Providing spaces for collaborative and multidisciplinary research within one facility,
                  including e.g. robotics lab (B11/B12), sports labs for biochemistry (A03/B12/C24),
                  chemistry labs also used for materials synthesis, specialist computing labs
                  including high-performance computing (B11/B12), and general IT resource areas.
                  As with the Engineering building, these spaces are designed to encourage
                  research-informed teaching opportunities.
       The Medical Technologies and Innovation Facility (MTIF, £23m including £9.7m from
        D2N2 Local Growth Fund, 3318 m2 on two sites; completed 2020) aims to enable early
        stage research and development in medical technology and medical devices. It supports
        our activities in medical design (e.g. printable 3D cell scaffolds), biomimetics and
        biomedical implants (overlapping with A03). It provides an unprecedented new product
        development facility in the Midlands for partners to utilise, with an anticipated return of
        £3M/year of industrial or contract research opportunities (see §1.2.1). The Clifton campus
                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        building supports early-stage innovation and impact-generation activities from our
        researchers, while the Boots Enterprise Zone building features an additional state-of-the-
        art manufacturing facility, focussing on industrial pilot projects.
 Providing for a sustainable research environment, there have been regular opportunities for
 refurbishment of existing labs, for both existing and new staff including: £110k for refurbishment
 of applied chemistry lab; £20k for refurbishment of thin films lab to add microfluidics capability;
 £30k for expansion of ISAAC lab.

 Communal research facilities: Our staff have free/at-cost access to state-of-the-art facilities
 operating on an open-door policy across campus, including expert training. Of particular relevance
 to IMEC are the imaging suite and computing facilities.

 The UoA’s strength in imaging is supported by a cutting-edge dedicated Imaging Suite, featuring:
 Atomic force microscope (Dimension ICON, 2016, £185k); Confocal microscope (Leica SP5, £17k
 upgrade, 2017); Scanning electron microscope (Jeol JSM-7100F + EDX, 2015, £250k);
 Transmission electron microscope (Jeol JEM-2010, replaced 2019, £640k). This suite is centrally
 financed and supported by technical support staff, including regular training sessions.

 The School hosts two HPC clusters, for Linux (installed 2017/2018, currently 44 nodes of 16-20
 cores each, up to 128 GB RAM / node and 30 TB storage) and Windows (installed 2016, 480
 cores, half-funded by external income). The clusters enable computational work in advanced
 materials and medical technologies, including search-based design strategies for functionalised
 metal organic frameworks (Addicoat), molecular dynamics studies of chemical catalysis at
 interfaces (Shuttleworth) or lipid membranes (Robinson), and an industrial partnership with
 Bridgestone on modelling polyurethane foam at nano-scale. They have facilitated high-impact
 results (e.g. Nature Comms. 9:3757, 2018), allowed for prototyping code to be run on competitively
 allocated centralised computing facilities (e.g. Shuttleworth’s £60k and Addicoat’s £20k of
 computing time, UK Materials Chemistry Consortium) and supported EPSRC New Investigator
 submissions by Addicoat and Robinson.

 Additionally, the School supports a capital investment programme of ~£1 million/year, to which
 IMEC recommends priorities. Spending has included >£1m of upgrades to the imaging suite
 equipment supporting incoming ECR’s research strengths e.g.: Benjamin with NMR Spectrometer
 (£270k) and XRD replacement (£229k); Kalfagiannis with ellipsometer (£200k); Reinwald with
 biomedical engineering workstation (£89k); Bodaghi with materials testing rig (£42k); and Siegkas
 with high-speed camera (£47k). Another £900k supported the installation of the Engineering
 Building labs.

 Other facilities include a broad range of research labs operating across campus. For example:

       The iSMART lab (now within MTIF) specialises in advanced materials, incorporating
        electrospinning facility, thin films fabrication with Class 100 clean room, plasmonic
        materials fabrication and metrology facilities.
       Our soft materials suite complements this with labs incorporating soft lithography and
        microfluidics fabrication workstations, rheology and fluids characterisation facilities, a liquid
        crystals research lab, and imaging systems (high-speed imaging, fluorescence
        microscopy, etc.).
       Our magnetic resonance imaging suite supports applied/medical research including our
        Medibord spin-off commercialisation (§1.3) and incorporates a Bruker Biospec MRI
        Scanner (£190k) and mobile NMR Mouse scanner (£25k).
       Bio-materials research is carried in two specialist biochemistry laboratories (170m2). Multi-
        functional materials synthesis/analysis benefits from an organic synthesis facility
        (204m2,16 fume hoods) plus a 103m2 wet/dry lab equipped with materials NMR (Jeol
        9.388T 400MHz), and X-ray diffraction systems.


                                                                                                 Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.3 Organisational and operational infrastructure supporting research and impact

 Technical support is provided by a diverse team of about twenty technical support staff, including
 a School technical manager and three building-specific technical leads. Six additional technical
 support staff, recruited from industry, are embedded in the engineering building (with plans for 9
 FTE at full capacity), providing jointly for research and teaching laboratory support. A dedicated
 technician runs our imaging suite and impact generation is facilitated by two commercial
 development officers. Applied research in the Chemistry and Physics departments is together
 supported by four research and four teaching-focussed technical support staff. The technical
 support team also operates a technician apprenticeship programme. The University is a signatory
 of the Science Council’s Technician Commitment, which aims to support career development and
 sustainability for technical support staff in research.

 To support ECRs applying for and securing their first competitive research grants/fellowships, NTU
 established a ‘Winning Grant Funding’ programme that has provided support including academic
 peer review and mentoring as well as masterclasses on proposal development, pathways to
 impact and developing external partnerships. There is also a School-specific mentor for early-
 career grants (e.g. EPSRC new investigator awards). The University’s Research Operations
 supports grant application processes, facilitated by our ‘Worktribe’ research management
 platform, and Research and Strategic Partnership Development supports research grant and
 external partnership development, including Innovate UK and EU funding (§3.1, and see REF5a).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research network

 Global engagement is a strategic aim of the School (see §1.2). It is realised by well-subscribed
 schemes and opportunities including match-funded PhDs (§2.2), visiting fellowships for external
 academics, PGRs and industrial collaborators, internship programmes, funding for international
 research exchanges and bilateral agreements with strategic industrial and academic partners.
 Consequently, we support an exceptionally strong international network of collaborators. For
 example, most of our publications involve international co-authors, we maintain a wide portfolio of
 international and consortium grants (§3.1), our staff base is drawn from over a dozen countries,
 and 34% of our PGRs are recruited from outside the UK/EU.

 Our visiting scholars programme (3-5 years, renewable) encourages high-profile networking,
 including industrial partnerships. Over the REF period this supported 28 visitors, including:

       Prof. Glen McHale (Northumbria, 2012-2017): work on complex fluids and
        superhydrophobic surfaces, resulting in 19 collaborative outputs including Science
        Advances, Communications Physics, Physical Review Applied, and Materials Letters.
       Dr. Rajesh Naik (Air Force Research Laboratory, 2012-2015), in collaboration with Perry’s
        US Air Force funded work on biomaterials, which continues to generate high-impact
        publications in e.g. Nature Communications (2020).
       Dr. Ian Sage (Abelian Services, Technical Consultancy, 2014-2022), contributing to four
        co-authored publications on liquid crystals and manipulation of droplets with electric fields.
       Dr. Helen Dudfield (QinetiQ, 2020-2023, see also §2.3) is a leading technical strategist on
        utilising diverse engineering teams in addressing complex needs, and will mentor our
        human factors and digital human teams.
 Other notable visiting appointments include David Wilkinson (Institute of Physics), Michael Waller
 (Nano Products Ltd), and Alan de Asha (C-Motion Inc). Similarly, our visiting students programme
 allows for hosting international PGRs, including those from Japan, Mexico and Spain.



                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Mirroring these hosting arrangements, research-active staff and PGRs have opportunities for
 national and international exchange and travel, supported both by NTU and external funding.
 Many staff have held visiting/guest positions elsewhere (e.g. Perry at MIT; Gao at Southwest
 University; Hunt at China Medical University; Goehring at Max Planck (MPIDS), Volodkin at
 Fraunhofer (IZI-BB)). A School fund supports travel to develop networks and build collaborations
 at specific research-intensive institutions (e.g. recently focussing on universities in Paris, Berlin,
 Barcelona). Academic staff collaboratively co-supervise PGR research projects at other
 universities including Leeds, Liverpool, Coventry and Heriot-Watt, and can allocate time for this
 supervision within our academic workload model (§2.1.2). Strategic bilateral agreements (e.g.
 research exchanges, networking events, joint PGR projects) also exist between target universities
 such as the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay and Panjab University. Finally, academic staff
 have developed their own international networks through external funding, including Addicoat
 (Royal Society, Russia), Goehring (Royal Society, Japan), Martin (Leverhulme and JSPS, Japan;
 Royal Society, China), Perry (DFG/Mercator Fellowship, Germany), Tranter (Institute of
 Mathematics, Italy) and Volodkin (Marie Curie/Humboldt; Germany).

 Our Strategic Partnerships programme links NTU to 23 select partners from outside academia.
 For example, our partner BioCity complements the research facilities in our new MTIF building
 and offers applied research work opportunities for undergraduates and PGRs. Within IMEC, our
 Engineering and Digitalisation partners are AECOM (focusing on NTU’s Smart Campus initiative
 and degree apprenticeships), Siemens (supporting research activities on smart meters, and
 Nottingham’s Smart City ambitions) and Fujitsu (positively addressing societal challenges, co-
 creation, and Smart Campus). These partnerships extend across all levels of academic activity,
 including research-informed teaching: e.g. Fujitsu sponsored our 2019 Grand Challenge event, a
 5-week opportunity to exchange ideas and build collaborations with industries, aimed at
 undergraduate students, and centred on the theme of smart technologies.

 4.2 Research Impact and contributions

 Our academic staff engage in diverse contributions to society and the economy and are supported
 in these activities by a range of competitive internal funding opportunities. Some exemplars, not
 already captured in our impact case studies include:

       Stevens’ commercialisation track-record with Flexotronix (R&I director, 2018); Audition
        Therapeutics Ltd. (2015), SFZ Tech Ltd. (2014), and Nano Products Ltd. (2013). For
        example, Flexotronix developed conductive inks for hybrid electronics, RFID
        manufacturing and smart temperature-monitoring tags (with contract to QinetiQ).
       Perry and Burton (C14) developed silica-based dietary supplements for chicken feed to
        reduce lameness and poor bone health (with AB Vista providing £335k support): 11 feed
        trials have explored optimisation of delivery and biological impact, resulting in patents on
        the bio-silica source and a roadmap for further exploitation.
       Omurtag’s clinical and ergonomic applications of EEG and brain-computer interfacing
        includes observing the mental workload of surgeons via EEG in operating rooms (Houston
        Methodist Research Institute) and training physicians to detect sub-clinical seizures using
        EEG (Downstate Medical Center, Brooklyn).
       Biggs has championed partnerships with local communities, including membership on:
        Making Mansfield Place; Discover Ashfield; Mansfield Health Partnership; BioCity plc.; and
        Nottingham Festival of Science and Curiosity boards. Afazov (Ashfield council) and Khalid
        (Newark and Sherwood District council) have also supported regional manufacturing bids.
       Chappell coordinated EU FP7 grant MHiVec (€1.9m) on modelling vehicle noise and
        vibration, with subsequent commercialisation of the DEA software tool (inuTech) contract
        research (Yanmar Co.) on full-scale tractor model, benchmarking tests (Jaguar Land Rover
        Ltd.) and KTP (Far-UK Ltd.) on virtual prototyping of automotive structures.



                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Brown’s long-standing relationship with Merck include consulting for ~£60k, contributions
        to PhDs, and work on tunable optofluidic devices (patent WO2017025167) and to solve
        ‘mura’ defect problems that can occur when filling LCD panels.
       Brown co-led NTU’s involvement in the NUCLEUS Horizon 2020 project. This €4 million
        project (26 partners in 15 countries) brought Responsible Research and Innovation to life
        in universities and research institutions across Europe, China and South Africa.

 Our policy of free/at-cost staff usage of our common base of technical equipment and services
 (§3.2), encourages proof-of-principle trials including industrial and academic partners. Industry
 access to facilities is supported by our Scientific Services to Industry (SS2i) initiative, staffed by
 two Commercial Technical Specialists, who have worked with industrial partners including 3K,
 BioPharma, Greenway Environmental, NVisiQ, OpSec Securities (kickstarting development into
 KTP), and Quotient. A database of School academic staff skills and expertise is used to facilitate
 commercial and contract research opportunities.

 Our match-funded PhD programme (§2.2) also prioritises collaboration, industrial sponsorship and
 networking opportunities. Partners include: Diamond Light Source (Morris/Newton), including
 ~£180k in-kind contribution of beam time and resulting in new crystallography upgrades at their
 beamlines; Micromass/Waters Corp. (Kilgour), including ~£100k equipment contributions, to
 develop multiplex tandem mass spectrometry; Kymira Ltd. (Wang); and the Max Planck Society
 (Goehring).

 Similarly, our undergraduate research internships allow the best undergraduate students at NTU
 to participate in research. This reflects our advocacy of research-informed teaching methods, with
 results that feed back into the curriculum and benefit the wider community. The University-wide
 SPUR internships (see REF5a) have offered 13 scholarships within IMEC since 2014, contributing
 to 5 research outputs. The Engineering Research Opportunity Scheme, Physics/Maths
 Undergraduate Research Scheme and summer internships in Chemistry now provide for over 50
 such internships annually, or about one per research-active staff member. These interns are
 authors on at least 18 peer-reviewed publications (e.g. Phys. Rev. Lett. 121:184501, 121:064502;
 Dalton Trans. 47:11680; Int. J. Mech. Sci. 173:105451) and generated preliminary results for
 subsequently funded projects (e.g. Bridgestone; EU project ComfDemo).

 The School and IMEC also support a range of community outreach activities, including the annual
 Nottingham Festival of Science and Curiosity and Science in the Park. We were one of three lead
 outreach providers within the £1m Chemistry for All (Royal Society of Chemistry) programme of
 widening participation, involving over six thousand young people, and which has set national
 guidelines for outreach providers. With BioCity we host an Ada Lovelace Day to inspire the next
 generation of female STEM scientists. Morris and Vanheusden collaborated on the Sung Tieu: In
 Cold Print exhibition at the Nottingham Contemporary gallery. Perry participated in a Royal Society
 pairing scheme with local MP Lillian Greenwood. Hunt is a STEMNET and MerseySTEM
 ambassador.

 4.3 Indicators of influence, contributions and recognition

 Reflecting their international profile, the academic staff of the UoA are well-recognised with
 positions of esteem, as well as external awards and prizes.

 Highlights of staff prizes include:
       Evans’ Royal Society Wolfson Fellowship (2018), Gabor medal (2017, Institute of Physics)
        and Times Higher Education Award for Outstanding Contributions to Innovation and
        Technology (2016), for his work on X-ray security technology, which was also integral to
        NTU’s Queen’s Anniversary Prize (2015).
       Perry held a Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award (2013-2017) in recognition of
        her studies of the biomolecule-mineral interface.

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Martin held a Leverhulme Senior Research Fellowship (2017) for his work in 2D and chiral
        superconductors, allowing for development of his Japan/China research network.
       Whittaker’s Sir Paul Curran Prize for academic communication (2019, The Conversation)
        cites his “compelling narratives … read 1.5m times and republished around the world” and
        contributions to raising the public awareness of science.
       Rahmani’s Royal Society Wolfson Fellowship (2020, Engineering nano-materials for
        optical technologies), UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship (2020) and ECR awards (Eureka
        Prize; Australian Optical Society; Optical Society of America; IUPAP).

 Staff contribute to academic publishing as members of editorial boards, including Scientific
 Reports (Liang, Perry, Biggs), Biomaterials (Hunt), Applied Surface Science (Shuttleworth),
 Ergonomics (Mansfield), and have guest-edited special/theme issues in journals such as
 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society, Chemical Engineering Science, Applied
 Ergonomics. In more senior roles, Goehring is subject editor at Proceedings of the Royal Society
 A; Hunt is subject editor at International Journal of Artificial Organs; Biggs was executive associate
 editor of Chemical Engineering Science; and Gao is deputy editor-in-chief of IET Nanodielectrics.

 Similarly, our academic staff have also helped organise e.g. the International Conference on
 Materials Research and Nanotechnology; the World Congress on Materials Science and
 Engineering; Innowave (2017, at NTU with ~50 industry delegates); and three of the UK Fluids
 Network’s special interest groups (e.g. Industry day at NTU on bio-inspired and smart surfaces,
 Ouali). Fairhurst co-founded the international Droplets conference (2013, subsequently biannual).
 Mansfield co-founded the International Comfort Congress (2017, subsequently biennial).

 Other indicators of wider influence include: Hunt is honorary academic consultant of the
 Nottinghamshire Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust and chairs a Royal Society of Chemistry
 (RSC) committee; Biggs is a Fellow of The Institution of Chemical Engineers; Volodkin is a Fellow
 of the RSC; O’Neill was variously member and chair of the ERC FP7 systems and communication
 engineering panel, while Biggs chaired EPSRC Energy Storage Challenge panel; Perry sits on
 several RSC committees, the Ramsay Trust advisory panel, the Royal Society Newton Fund
 Fellowship selection committee and the Radcliffe/Harvard Fellowship committee; Mansfield was
 president of the Chartered Institute of Ergonomics and Human Factors; Brown is treasurer of the
 Dielectrics and Electrostatics Institute of Physics Group and was treasurer of the British Liquid
 Crystal Society.




                                                                                               Page 19
