Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Chester

 Unit of Assessment: 3 - Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

A. Achievement of Strategic Aims
With a thriving research environment and research culture, Allied Health at Chester represents the
largest research corpus at the university, with internationally recognised research staff, a vibrant
postgraduate student community, and an expanding network of collaboration with professional,
community and industry partners. Post REF 2014 has been an enriching transformational period,
building on the future plans outlined in the previous Environment Statement, and evidenced by; a
significant increase in category A staff numbers, consolidation of research infrastructure and group
themes, the development of a new medical division, expansion and enhancement of doctoral
provision, substantial growth in research income, and globally significant outputs shaping policy,
practice and pedagogy.

Across the university, strategic aims of research have been primarily driven by the institutional vision,
goals and objectives, encapsulated in the University of Chester’s 5-year corporate plan (2015 -
2020). These have been further elaborated in the 2021-2026 Research and Knowledge Transfer
Strategy; with a commitment to “Ensure that high quality research and innovative practices contribute
to exceptional learning and teaching, that helps influence the development and improvement of
society”. The University of Chester is primarily a teaching and learning focused Institution, therefore,
the Vision of the unit going forward is to embed Research and Practice and facilitate Learning in
Practice. The practice-based strategy recognises the importance of building an integrated research
and teaching culture; creating an environment that is collaborative, partnership-based, solution-
focused, and supportive of both staff and students.

Since 2014, there has been a significant restructuring and reconfiguration of the disciplines
which constitute Unit of Assessment 3, culminating in the establishment of three primary research
strands; Social Science (Allied Health and Nursing, based at the Faculty of Health and Social Care),
Clinical Science (Clinical Sciences and Nutrition, located within the Faculty of Medicine, Dentistry
and Life Sciences), and Biomedical Science (Chester Medical School, also located within the
Faculty of Medicine Dentistry and Life Sciences). These three strands encompass seven primary
research groups, namely Public Health; Food and Nutrition; Ageing and Veterans; Learning
Disabilities and Mental Health; Clinical Care; Tissue Disease and Repair; and Cell and
Molecular Pathology, and one research cluster, Pedagogy (see fig.1).

The period of transition, reform, and consolidation across Allied Health between 2014 and 2020 is
reflected in changes to these primary research groups; three new groups emerged (Ageing and
Veterans; Public Health; and Food and Nutrition), two were reconfigured following the formation of
the Medical Division (with Clinical and Biomedical Sciences evolving into Clinical Care, Tissue
Disease and Repair; and Cell and Molecular Pathology), one was renamed to reflect the expertise
of the group (becoming Learning Disabilities and Mental Health), and the other (Health Education
and Practice Development) has been incorporated into the Pedagogy Cluster.

To achieve the plans identified in the previous REF submission, and to move our wider research
agenda forward, we initiated a period of reflection, review and refocus, seizing the opportunity to
realign our research ambition and strategy. The outcome has been a transformation of our
operational systems, processes, and organisational culture, providing clarity and coherence,
specifically:

Governance, Leadership, and Accountability – Subsequent to changes in senior management
structure, the appointment of Dean Simpson in the Faculty of Health and Social Care in 2018 and
Dean Alcolado in the Faculty of Medicine and Life Sciences in early 2020 has provided stability and
a cohesive direction. The result has been greater clarity and quality of the research culture, an

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
integrated agenda, and robust governance systems and processes, underpinned by enhanced
principles and practices based on the values of openness, transparency, honesty and trust. Further,
the establishment of the Chester Medical School with appointments of a new Head of School in
2019, a new Executive Dean of Faculty in 2020, and a series of recent academic staff from
Professorial level to new investigators/lecturers, has initiated a renascence in research emphasis
and research. This university investment and leadership has resulted in major increases in research
outputs and postgraduate student recruitment.

Quality Systems and Processes – A move towards an integration agenda between research,
teaching and learning and knowledge transfer has improved cohesion of postgraduate provision,
standardising the learning experience and staff allocations, and establishing a clear postgraduate
student pathway from pre-application to completion. A Review of Quality and Research (Q&R)
finances has streamlined funding processes, resulting in strategic allocation decisions and more
wide-ranging sourcing of grants (advised by Research Committee and Faculty Management Group)
with awards aligned to Research Group theme, staff expertise and areas with stronger research
impact.

Workforce and Planning – In the Social Sciences strand, targeted recruitment of internationally
recognised and distinguished scholars Kingston (2014), Finnegan (2016) and McSherry (2019)
reaffirms the new strategic direction of research. The revised research strategy led to the
establishment of the Centre for Ageing Studies in 2014 (facilitated by Kingston), evolving to include
the Westminster Centre for Veterans Studies (first formed by Finnegan in 2016), and becoming the
amalgamated Westminster Centre for Ageing, Mental Health and Veterans (2017). Chester Medical
School matched this activity with the appointment of internationally recognised and distinguished
scholars Michelangeli, Johnson (both 2015), and Steven Jones (2019), who have led additional
appointments of research focused senior academics (Lucas and Randles) and several younger staff
appointed to their first academic posts. These appointments and investment facilitated the
establishment of the Chester Medical School Research Strategy, development of new research
groups, i.e., Clinical Care, (led by Steven Jones), Tissue Disease and Repair (led by Johnson) and
Cell and Molecular Pathology (led by Michelangeli), and the provision of an enhanced postgraduate
training programme within the School. Refinements in postgraduate and staff development have
culminated in the central alignment of services and provision, accompanied by greater lines of
communication between Heads of Department and institutional level resources (i.e., the Research
and Knowledge Transfer Office).

Performance and Research Management – Within the Social Sciences strand, the function of the
Research Office was reviewed post REF 2014, and its roles and responsibilities were integrated into
the newly created position of Faculty Co-ordinator for Research (Kingston). A similar role has
recently also been created within the Chester Medical School (Steven Jones and Johnson). The
ongoing refinement of research groups has been accompanied by a reduction in the range of staff
research interests, but growing research and output delivery within the focused research themes. As
a consequence of this refocus, an initial drop in staff numbers post REF 2014 was followed by a
period of strategic external recruitment and internal promotion, enabling the achievement of a critical
mass of staff aligned to the research expertise of the faculty. The revised organisational structure
and research strategy is depicted in the following conceptual model (fig. 1).




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Figure 1. UoA3 Organisational Structure




By remaining flexible to change during this transitional period, we have strengthened capability,
capacity and confidence of the workforce and systems, progressing in our aspiration of an
Integrated Framework for Research, Teaching and Learning, and Knowledge Transfer, as outlined
in the emerging institutional strategy for multi- and interdisciplinary research under the Core Theme
“Health and Wellbeing” (see Section 1. C. Future Strategic Aims).

B. Impact during the Assessment Period
This section explores the sub-themes, significant impact of research, and future research aims within
each research group. Scholars from research groups also contribute to the cross-group Pedagogy
Cluster, promoting an integrated vision of the Unit by undertaking research into teaching and learning
theories and methodologies, and disseminating research findings to inform curricula designs and
student experiences.

Research Group: Public Health

Overview:
The ethos of the Public Health group is in exploring health inequalities, targeting under-researched
and neglected areas of society. Research interests include health promotion and healthy lifestyle
behaviours targeted at vulnerable, high risk and hard to reach people, on both national and
international levels (with specific interests in low- and middle-income countries in Africa, and the
Middle East).

Significant Impacts:
Mabhala’s research focuses on homelessness, sociology, and health. Research has conceptualised
homelessness as manifestation of wider socioeconomic determinants, using novel qualitative
methods with members of the homeless community, and leading to changes to homelessness
strategies at county level. The work won the 2018 Educate North award and has fed into cross-
national work with the European Federation of National Organisations Working with the Homeless
(FEANTSA). Speed’s research also focuses on under-researched groups, including a long-term
qualitative investigation into the effects of honour killing on families in Palestine, studies into the
health of older Chinese people in the UK, and a project looking at weight loss following breast surgery
and adjuvant therapy showing that a telephone/minimal face to face support programme for exercise
and diet enabled women to lose weight and keep to their diet long term.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Research Group: Ageing and Veterans

Overview:
This group originated following the targeted appointments of two distinguished, world leading
Professors within the specialities of Ageing, and Nursing and Military Mental Health. Research
interests include societal views of ageing across the life course, dementia care, safeguarding,
veterans’ mental health and well-being, military nursing, scams, and social isolation.

Significant Impacts:
Finnegan researches the health and well-being of veterans with studies funded by the Ministry of
Defence and the Armed Forces Covenant Fund in excess of £250,000. The “Finding the Forgotten”
NHS-funded project sought to motivate veterans to notify primary healthcare (PHC) staff of their
armed forces status, or register with a general practitioner, and to improve PHC staff’s understanding
of veterans’ health and social care issues. This research adds to the limited international empirical
evidence exploring help-seeking behaviour in an armed forces community. Kingston’s research has
explored social isolation and loneliness in an ageing population (£650,000 grant from the National
Lottery); safeguarding adults at risk (as a co-applicant to the Economic and Social Research Council
seminar series ‘Safeguarding Adults and Legal Literacy’),the public understanding of Dementia
utilising Mass Observation Data (presented at the 2020 International Annual Conference of the
International Psychogeriatric Association), and the Health impact of ‘Scams’ (again using Mass
Observation Data and accepted as a Symposium at the 2019 Gerontological Society of America). In
2019 Kingston was the Principal Investigator in a successful application to the United Kingdom
Prevention Research Partnership, and was awarded £308,000 to develop (PETRA) Prevention of
Disease Using Trade Agreements (https://petranetwork.org), involving multidisciplinary collaboration
of UK universities, non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and charities.

Future aims of this group are to continue the development of studies on later life, with a particular
focus on healthy ageing and quality-of-life enhancement.

Research Group: Learning Disabilities and Mental Health

Overview:
This well-established research group has continued to flourish and expand post REF 2014, gaining
national recognition in a predominantly neglected yet fundamentally important area of research.
Under the transformational leadership coordination of Lovell, the group has undergone a major
period of review and refocus. Significant staff investment involving mentoring, coaching, and
supervision has allowed the realignment of the group, maximising the potential of both senior staff
and early career academics. The renaming of the Learning Disabilities and Mental Health group
(from the Mental Health and Learning Disability Group submitted in REF2014) emphasises the
group’s expertise in the largely overlooked area of Learning Disability (LD) research. Research
expertise includes forensic LD studies, cognitive behavioural therapy, violence and self-injury,
control and restraint, stigma, and sleep therapeutics.

Significant Impacts:
Clinical violence within (LD) practice has been the focus of Lovell’s research, with emphasis in the
area of de-escalation of violence, culminating in the development of a theoretical model and
commissioned teaching in LD secure services. This work has formed the basis of a case study for
REF 2021, has been presented in a number of international and national forums, and has impacted
LD staff practice, transforming practitioner’s conceptualizations of de-escalation. Mitchell was
involved in a commissioned project funded by the Department of Education “Constructing and
Delivering Services of Support: an Evaluation of the Northwest Post-placement Adoption Support
Service”, investigating children deemed ‘hard-to-place’ due to a variety of mental health issues.
Chapman’s work centred on health consultations for people with LD. Bowen’s work investigates the
stigma of mental health across various forms of media, with novel studies examining newspapers’
“Twitter” feeds in relation to mental health (the first study of its kind), contributing to a growing interest
in social media, the news, and mental health. Sutton has focused on sleep hygiene education

                                                                                                      Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
amongst children with developmental disabilities, and the use of storytelling and audio podcasts in
qualitative research.

Sharma is Vice Chair of the Global Rural Mental Health section of the World Psychiatric
Association, holding Visiting Professorships at the Indian Institute of Health Management
Research (Rajasthan) and Datta Meghe University (Maharashtra) India. Sharma has contributed
many significant developments in global mental health throughout his career as a consultant
psychiatrist and senior academic, especially throughout the past decade. His focus is on low- to
middle-income countries (LMICs) which have a huge burden of untreated mental illness, with
insufficient mental health professionals. Sharma has developed and disseminated a Global Mental
Health Assessment tool for use in primary care (GMHAT/PC) and a training package that can be
used in many populations within existing limited resources. GMHAT/PC is a public domain (free to
use) software education package for non-mental health professionals to carry out mental health
assessments, generating diagnostic possibilities and treatment recommendations. GMHAT is
reliable and practical for mental health assessments in LMICs where there are inadequate numbers
of mental health professionals to offer services to the whole population, delivering a truly important
global research impact (see Impact Case Study). Recent research has focused on GMHAT/PC’s
feasibility and acceptability to different populations, its validation in a variety of languages, and its
use in co-morbidity cases.

Future aims of this group include the development of the further understanding of violence as a
social phenomenon, and addressing interventions for utilisation by health and social care
practitioners.

Research Group: Food and Nutrition

Overview:
Research within this department is incorporated into four key themes:
• Cardiometabolic Health – encompassing several aspects of cardiometabolic health with particular
expertise in: micronutrient metabolism (particularly vitamin D) and cardiometabolic risk; nutritional
clinical trials; cellular and metabolic alterations in cardiovascular disease and modulation of
cardiovascular disease progression.
• Functional Foods – key theme of this Research Centre is to explore mechanistic understanding of
how food nutrients influence human cellular processes, how they impact our understanding of the
human microbiome and how the responses vary through population groups and across the life-
course.
• Hydrocolloids –research objective to remove natural built-in variability and enhance functionality of
hydrocolloids, with research expertise including emulsification technology; molecular weight
characterisation of hydrocolloids; gelling properties of hydrocolloids; texture; and rheology.
• Public Health Nutrition and Physical Activity - research to understand the role of behaviour and
supportive environments to enhance health and wellbeing.

Significant Impacts:
Mushtaq leads the Micronutrient Metabolism research group with a focus on investigating the effect
of nutritional components, particularly vitamin D, on biomarkers of disease. This involves carrying
out nutritional clinical trials, with published findings having significant potential on the treatment of
nutritional deficiencies and disease risk. Key trials include a study to investigate the effect of vitamin
D3 supplementation on asthma symptoms in adults (ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02359214); and a study
investigating the effect of vitamin D3 supplementation on iron status in iron deficient women
(ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT02714361). Mushtaq also set up a collaborative project with the Medical
Research Council (MRC), Human Nutrition Unit at the University of Cambridge, to investigate the
inhibitory effects of tea on iron absorption (ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT02365103). Li worked on an
international collaborative research project (research partners including Massey University and the
Christchurch Clinical Studies Trust) that generated new scientific evidence of the health benefits of
Greenshell mussels to assist the industry in identifying and developing optimal Greenshell mussel-
based functional food products (appealing to the emerging market of wealthy, ageing, health-
conscious consumers, predominantly in China). Li contributed to the human intervention trial in

                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
measuring the concentration of active ingredients in the mussels and how much was absorbed by
human participants.

Al-Assaf’s research focuses on the structure-function relationship of hydrocolloids, molecular
assemblies, formulations, emulsion technology, encapsulation, and radiation chemistry of
hydrocolloids. Ellahi is one of the collaborators of the large-scale international collaborative project,
the Gene–Nutrient Interactions (GeNuIne), investigating the effect of gene–nutrient interactions on
cardiometabolic traits using population-based studies from various ethnic groups in lower middle-
income countries. Ellahi has long-standing interest in the quality of training for nutritionists, being
the only nutritionist member of the QAA review group for the Subject Benchmark Statement for
Agriculture, Horticulture, Forestry, Food, Nutrition and Consumer Sciences (2016). Morris
developed a 15-metre Shuttle Running Entrance Fitness Test for the College of Policing which has
been rolled out across several police forces. Kennedy developed a novel compact training protocol
for midwives to build knowledge and confidence in giving nutrition advice during pregnancy, leading
to changes in the pre-registration curriculum for midwives in Wales.

Future aims include expanding on the high-quality research in the area of micronutrient metabolism
and functional foods in health and disease, as well as continuing to conduct impactful research
aiming to improve workplace health.

Research Group: Clinical Care

Overview:
The focus of this group is interdisciplinary clinical practice and research for patient benefit. The group
(led by Steven Jones) recently developed with the recruitment of several academic appointments
and experienced clinicians from the disciplines of psychology, nursing, physicians associate,
treatment radiography, and medicine. The group aims to cultivate clinical academic staff towards
clinical research careers. This group strengthens our research emphasis on national and
international mental health development. Steven Jones is working with local NHS Trusts (Cheshire
and Wirral Partnership NHS Trust) to develop collaborative research grants. Appointing two visiting
Clinical Professors of Psychiatry (seconded from the NHS) has strengthened the clinical care group
at Chester Medical School (Professor Taj Nathan in 2018 and Professor Sujeet Jaydeokar in 2020).
To support interdisciplinary collaborations with other faculties, and local and national stakeholders
(already underway with the Faculty of Health and Social Care), each group member will have special
interests and the group ethos is to nurture these interests. Finally, group members of the three
medical school research cluster groups may move between the groups or attend more than one
group with the aim of sharing ideas and experiences for staff research development.

Significant Impacts
Steven Jones is professor of mental health at the Chester Medical School, working between the
medical school and Faculty of Health and Social Care. He has been a project leader and
coinvestigator for many international education and mental health research projects, for direct patient
benefit, with long-standing international partnership with clinicians and academics from India. His
research has concentrated on four major areas: deliberate self-harm, later life cognitive disorders,
suicide reduction and substance misuse. Mason-Whitehead has worked in collaboration with
clinicians at the Countess of Chester Hospital, conducting research focused on bowel disease, a
condition with often devastating consequences where it is rewarding to have even a small impact,
particularly in relation to quality of life. Ongoing work seeks to enhance critical understanding of
stigma relating to health and illness through research, teaching, and supervision engagement.
Buckley has been at the forefront of pragmatic approaches that inform clinicians how best to reduce
cardiovascular risk and improve rehabilitation in patients and the wider community, i.e., worldwide.
He has been a major influential figure in national and international bodies, most recently including
the World Health Organisation (WHO); delivered keynote lectures at international academic
meetings; and been widely engaged by the media as a subject expert. Buckley led on the British
National Standards and Core Components for Cardiovascular Disease Prevention and
Rehabilitation, and contributed to a global statement on the delivery of cardiac rehabilitation in


                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
LMIC’s, serving on a specialist panel of the WHO 2017 – 2020 as part of the Rehabilitation 2030
Initiative.

Future aims are to develop work in neuro-psychiatry and neurodevelopmental disorders.

Research Group: Tissue Disease and Repair

Overview:
This group researches normal tissue function, how disease and injury result in aberrant tissue
function, and how this can be corrected by enhancing the processes of tissue repair and
regeneration. There are several newly appointed young investigators and more established
academics with strong research activity in the fields of musculoskeletal pathophysiology, including
orthopaedics, neurological damage, aspects of pre-and postnatal development, and cancer, with
substantial integration into research activities within the Cell and Molecular Pathology group. The
group has published extensively and widely, totalling 44 papers since 2014 in high impact factor
journals including Nature Communications, Stem Cells, Stem Cells and Development, Scientific
Reports, Redox Biology, Journal of Orthopaedic Research, Bone, FASEB Journal, Oncotarget, and
Biomaterials.

Significant Impacts:
Johnson has a long history of research into musculoskeletal pathology, stem cells and regenerative
medicine, with a focus on spinal cord injury (SCI). He has engaged with industry through iCASE
awards, most recently establishing collaboration with the Veterinary Tissue Bank (VTB) in Chirk UK
(BBSRC funded) to explore the potential application of adult stem cells for SCI in dogs with naturally
occurring lesions. The VTB already treats arthritic dogs with MSCs to relieve symptoms, and
cartilage repair is another important area of research in the Johnson group. These activities have
been reported in international journals of repute, with papers recently on adult stem cell transplants
for cartilage repair, the role of retinoic acid signalling in tissue regeneration, and biomarkers of spinal
cord repair, through continued collaboration with researchers at the Robert Jones and Agnes Hunt
(RJAH) Orthopaedic hospital. Johnson has collaborated extensively with clinicians and scientists
internationally, working with orthopaedic specialists in Japan, and SCI specialists across the world,
but centred in China to provide guidelines for clinical treatments using stem cells in humans. Pickard
researches across a range of disease conditions and tissue repair/regeneration strategies, leading
to a series of international and world-leading outputs. He has examined novel cell and gene therapies
for neurological damage, including the use of nanotechnology, and reported the roles of long non-
coding RNA in regulating gene expression and cell phenotype in relation to cancer. Pickard is a
highly experienced cell and molecular biologist who has published more than 60 papers and several
chapters, and continues to work in collaboration with other experts since his recruitment to Chester
Medical School.

Nye was the first to summarise and detail the importance of oxygen levels within the human placenta.
He has explored a novel method of measuring oxygen within the placenta and identified the use of
advanced imaging techniques in proposing a new hypothesis for differential fetal growth in a major
review, cited 18 times since publication in 2018. Wilson’s research is focused on orthopaedics
disease and repair, including cartilage damage and drug induced osteoporosis through combined
genomic and proteomic analyses. Wilson was recruited from the Robert Jones and Agnes Hunt
(RJAH) Orthopaedic hospital as an early career researcher, and has advanced to become a senior
lecturer, continuing to collaborate with academics and clinicians based at the RJAH hospital, and
has co-supervised Keele University PGR students through this research collaboration. Power has
continued his research on an ovine model of skeletal under loading, receiving QR grant funding in
2019-20 from the University of Chester to continue an ‘Investigation of osteocytic regulation of bone
mass in an ovine skeletal model of mechanical under-loading’, aiming to map in situ, osteoclastic
bone loss with parameters indicating osteocytic regulatory activity in an ovine skeletal model of
disuse osteoporosis. Data generated is expected to provide insight into the biological role of
osteocytes within bone tissue experiencing conditions of reduced mechanical strain.



                                                                                                   Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research Group: Cellular and Molecular Pathology

Overview:
This group is particularly interested in the molecular and cellular basis of diseases and their
treatments. The group (lead by Michelangeli) has been expanding with the recruitment of several
new academic appointments of highly experienced researchers and academics, who have shown
great potential to further develop their research. One of the current major areas of research is the
molecular basis and treatment of a range of cancers, encompassing basic cell-matrix biology,
immunology, virology and vaccine development, pharmacology, and drug delivery in the research.
Both Lucas and Michelangeli have been focused on translational medicine approaches to treating
leukaemia and anti-cancer-drug resistant cancers, which crosses to research in tissue disease and
repair – examining the potential of drug repurposing strategies for the treatment of human bone
cancers and brain cancer. The group also has a strong research profile through research outputs,
totalling 46 papers in high impact journals including Nature Nanotechnology, Haematologica,
Leukaemia, Journal of Controlled Release, Scientific Reports, Matrix Biology, British Journal of
Pharmacology, Journal of the American Society of Nephrology, and Human Molecular Genetics.

Significant Impacts:
Michelangeli’s research focuses on discovering new drugs that can target and kill cancer cells
through autophagic cell death pathways. Many cancer cells become mutated to de-activate the
apoptotic cell death pathways through caspases, which is the cell death pathway utilised by many
standard anti-cancer drug therapies. Thus, over time many cancers become resistant to standard
treatments. Several papers published by the group in collaboration with others have led to the
possibility of targeting and killing caspase-resistant cancers by inducing cell death through an
alternative Ca2+-dependent, autophagic pathway. Lucas has previously shown that CIP2A is a
clinical biomarker for patients with chronic myeloid leukaemia and suggested that patients who
expressed high levels of this biomarker at diagnosis should not be treated with the current first line
therapy. This study led to a grant to investigate the biomarker as a part of a national clinical trial.
This is the only biomarker to predict which patients will progress to an advanced phase of the disease
known as blast crisis, and will influence future treatment of patients. Her future work aims to
understand the biology of CIP2A in cancer. Randles’ research focuses on investigating Alport
syndrome, a disease that impacts basement membranes in the eyes, ears and kidneys. His research
also focuses on basement membrane ligands which affect signalling networks to direct cell shape
and kidney filtration barriers.

Harrison is first author on a human Phase I trial for a Chikungunya vaccine. This uses the same
vaccine vector as the current COVID-19 vaccine developed by the University of Oxford (also the site
of the Chikungunya vaccine trial), and the results are extremely promising. Future research
collaboration being funded with fellow CMS lecturer Dr Gareth Nye involves the Human Milk Bank
at Exton Park, examining the immunological and molecular components of breast milk, and the role
played by infectious diseases. Harrison is also collaborating with the Computer Science department
to develop a novel, artificial intelligence-based programme to create a point-of-care diagnostic test
for urinary tract infections. Christopher Jones’ early career research involves the molecular
mechanisms of HIV infection and immunoevasion, innate cellular mechanisms of antiviral immunity,
and immune responses to infection. Specifically, his research investigates the activity of cellular
proteins called ‘restriction factors’. These proteins prevent viral infection by inhibiting specific steps
in the viral life cycle, however, their mechanisms of action and mechanisms of regulation are not well
defined. It is hoped that once these proteins are better understood, opportunities to harness their
antiviral activity therapeutically will be identified. This research spans virology, biochemistry,
microbiology, and immunology. Favretto’s research has resulted in major papers of high impact
detailing the application of nanotechnologies for gene and drug delivery. His work highlights novel
procedures to enhance drug targeting, and maximise transfection efficacies, in addition to providing
important new knowledge on the underlying mechanisms at play. Favretto’s work was recently
recognised when he was a key speaker at a Young Investigator Workshop of the Mercia Stem Cell
Alliance annual meeting hosted at Chester in 2019, with over 60 participants.



                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Future aims of the group are to increase research impact through clinical collaboration, strategically
target funding streams, maintain high quality research outputs, foster staff development via the peer
group system, and further integrate education and research training programmes with staff research
activities.

Research Cluster: Pedagogy

Overview:
Since 2014, the Health Education and Practice Development research group has been transformed
into the Pedagogy research cluster. This has been driven by both external and internal factors, the
former involving major changes in policy and practice within the Health and Social Care sector.
Primarily, the development of the NHS Improvement Agenda has underlined the need for adopting
an integrated excellence framework, shaping the way this research cluster has evolved. The
constitution of this innovative cluster is in recognising the interplay between Research and Practice
and Learning in Practice (an enhancement of practice development). Staff within the Pedagogy
cluster sit within specific research groups but are collaboratively involved in work which informs
curricula, teaching and learning, and the research agendas of the wider health and social care sector.
Topics within this cluster include organisational and workplace culture, person-centredness
(workforce), patient safety, quality and standards, evidence-based practice, clinical governance, and
service improvement. Reaffirming the vision of the unit, the overriding aim of the Cluster is the pursuit
and delivery of excellence in learning, research, and practice.

Significant Impacts:
McSherry’s research into professional doctoral programmes led to the establishment of the 360
Degree Stakeholder approach to Professional Doctorate Programme Evaluation incorporating the
(POPE) personal, organisational, professional and employer framework. The protocol for a Campbell
Collaboration entitled ‘Evidence-Informed Practice Educational Interventions for Improving
Knowledge, Attitude, Understanding and Behaviour (Application of Evidence-Based Practice) of
Undergraduate Health and Social Care Students: A comprehensive Systematic Review’, was
accepted and published in July 2019. Chapman has worked in cross-collaboration with colleagues
in psychology, specifically Dr Claudine Clucas, to research respect in student nurses and nurses.
This has yielded four co-authored papers in peer-reviewed journals. Taylor’s research has explored
the impact of Preceptorship for new registrants across the North West Region. The outcomes of this
study have been disseminated both nationally and internationally and are published in the Journal
of Clinical Nursing (2018). Two further studies have evaluated the impact of new workforce models
in acute care service; ‘The value of embedded secondary-care-based psychology services in
rheumatology: an exemplar for long-term conditions’, and ‘An evaluation of the role of Cancer Nurse
Specials and Cancer Support Worker’, presented as a poster at the UK Oncology Nursing Society
Conference (2020). All studies identified significant implications for workforce design and service
improvement and have pedagogical implications for the health and social care curricula.

C. Future Strategic Aims

Strategy
The appointment of a new Vice Chancellor in 2020 has facilitated a renewed energy, and following
a period of reflection, a revised strategic direction for many areas of provision including research has
been enacted. The revised strategic agenda has conceptualised a coordinated approach to the
innovation and delivery of research activities encapsulated within four key themes designed to build
upon University core values and expertise. For UoA3, the key theme concerns Health and
Wellbeing. To direct future strategic research aims, this theme will be developed into a Research
Institute to integrate health and wellbeing research across the university, and pool expertise across
professions and specialities.

The Vision of the Health and Wellbeing Research Institute is to improve lives and communities
through the design and delivery of innovative, high-quality, world-class research and impactful
activity. This will be achieved by collaborating and working with our NHS, Social Care services, Local
Authority, Councils, Research Councils UK, charitable organisations, local business, and

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
commercial partners. In developing the institute there is a recognition that our work is targeted
towards benefiting society and is undertaken in partnership with our patients and the public. The
Institute of Health and Wellbeing, through collaborating with our partners and relevant stakeholders,
will use novel and innovative research designs and methods to resolve complex problems.

The Health and Wellbeing Research Institute will provide the structure to further our research
ambitions, by bringing together existing strengths, as well as developing new areas of collaboration
and interdisciplinary working. This model of working through integration is aligned to the real world
of work for our students, partners and visiting professors who are familiar with the social policy drive
towards the integration agenda. This clarity of vision will further enhance the postgraduate research
culture for our existing students in addition to creating opportunities for innovative PhD scholarships
which reinforce partnerships with local communities and truly aspire to embed the Citizen Student
philosophy.

Resources and Activity
Through strategic resourcing, we anticipate that our combined activities include:
   • Increased quality and quantity of publication outputs
   • Submission of more ambitious, higher value funding applications, including individual PhD
      and Doctoral Training Partnerships and post-doctoral fellowship funding applications.
      Existing QR funding might usefully be realigned to support this activity in our University
      Research Theme areas
   • PhD supervision teams and enhanced supervisor mentorship schemes that support our new
      interdisciplinary research strategy. Research Themes will better encourage interdisciplinarity
      and ultimately increase the quality of the resultant research and impact
   • Expanded international partnerships that connect existing individual activity and grow
      networks, including better utilisation of visiting researchers and professors
   • Staff development and support to increase interdisciplinary research across faculties and
      Centres
   • Increase board appointments, for example, journals, Non-Executive Director, Local
      Enterprise Partnerships (LEPs) and commercial sponsorship boards. Develop local
      connections to the LEPs, Academic Health Science Network, Clinical Research Network,
      local providers and commissioners of health and social care, and the third sector and private
      providers, and forge closer links with charities and government departments.

Cross-faculty projects are already taking place at the University, for example, Computer Science
working with the Medical School and Public Health and Wellbeing on innovative uses of virtual reality
for both teaching and in healthcare. To this end, the driving ethos of the Institute of Health and
Wellbeing is to be inclusive, to bring together the collective expertise within the University of Chester
(and beyond), and to maximise our capacity to solve real-world problems within the field.

 2. People

A. Staff

Staffing Strategy
Staff strategy and development are driven by both the institutional vision, goals and objectives, (as
encapsulated in the University of Chester’s 5-year corporate plan 2015 - 2020), and the unit-level
research vision regarding the integration of research, scholarly activity, knowledge exchange, and
entrepreneurial endeavour. By taking account of these complementary visions, reflecting on the
Unit’s transformational period, and acknowledging feedback from REF 2014, the Unit has articulated
four staff-specific strategic objectives.

Firstly, to improve understanding of the Integration Vision of the Unit linking research,
teaching, and learning, and to increase opportunities for staff and students to participate in
knowledge transfer activities. This is evidenced by targeted recruitment and retention of staff with


                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research expertise in learning theories, methodologies, and practices; facilitated workshops for both
staff and students; and by working alongside the Research and Knowledge Transfer Office.

Secondly, to further raise the research profile and expertise of the Unit by consolidating
research themes and collaborating with partners within and across research groups,
faculties, and the wider health research community; locally, nationally, and internationally. This
is evidenced by targeted recruitment of world-leading specialists, the reformulation of research
groups around these areas of expertise, and high-level joint peer review publications resulting from
collaborations with fellow renowned academics from esteemed institutions worldwide.

Thirdly, to address real-world health and well-being challenges and needs by developing,
strengthening, and utilising partnerships and links to wider Allied Health Networks and
communities. This is evidenced by extensive consultancy and partnership work alongside NHS,
third sector and industry stakeholders, the revalidation of the professional doctorate programme to
accommodate sector needs and establish an alumni network of professionals across Allied Health,
and the development of community partnerships to better identify health and wellbeing challenges
with a goal to facilitate the co-production of potential solutions.

Fourthly, to maximise capacity, capability, and culture for research excellence through the
continuous development of new and existing staff. This is evidenced by supporting staff to
undertake further qualifications and other continuous professional development opportunities
(including leadership training, supervision preparation and mentoring), the use of career
development tools and programmes to ‘grow-our-own’ and allow staff to take control of their own
career progression within a supported framework, and to provide funding and allocated time to allow
staff to undertake advanced research skill development.

Staff Development
For the past 6 years, the university has successfully retained the Europe wide “Vitae HR Excellence
in Research Award”, with key projects linked to staff development (such as mentoring schemes,
training via online Researcher Hubs, and an annual Research Festival), in addition to the “Investors
in People Gold Award”, in recognition of outstanding institutional workforce support. This Unit has
fully participated in developments, making use of centralised tools such as new starter online
induction packages and digital training for new supervisors.

At the Unit level, there have been significant changes to our staff workforce since REF 2014. There
has been a high rate of staff turnover resulting from retirements, promotions, and staff moving to
other institutions. This presented an opportunity for the faculty to refocus around remaining staff
members’ expertise, and to streamline research themes into consolidated groups. Further targeted
recruitment and promotions have increased category A staff numbers from 23 FTE during REF 2014
to 34.11 FTE in REF 2021. To further reinforce the streamlining and focus of research groups, and
to increase associations with both academic and professional allied health partners, eminent Visiting
Professors have been appointed to collaborate with research staff on specific research and
consultancy projects.

The Unit is proactive in supporting staff to undertake professional continuous development
opportunities at both institutional and faculty level. Institutionally, all staff participate in annual
Personal Development Reviews and Plans (PDRP), reviewing performance indicators linked to
corporate objectives and personalised career targets. The university-wide Leadership Development
Programme provides tools and techniques by which staff can improve their leadership knowledge,
skills and confidence. At Unit level, research group leaders provide informal career-linked mentoring
to Early Career Researchers; there are plans in place to formalise this highly successful strategy.
Faculty-based lunchtime seminars and research masterclasses are open to all staff and students
and are often opened up to public attendance.

From 2017, the Faculty Research Conference, which originated as a student only forum for
presentations, has expanded into an annual, two-day, themed event which is open to all (staff,
students, research partners, and the general public). The conference includes research training

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
workshops, postgraduate presentations, staff lectures, keynote guest speakers and opportunities for
networking. Each conference has a key theme; these are based around contemporary issues in
health and social care, and how they impact on the development of curricula. For example, the 2019
event was themed around changing approaches to health and social care, including how the health
community can collaborate with arts and humanities specialists in developing novel treatment
methodologies, and the implications of cutting edge digital and technological advances on workforce
training opportunities and patient experiences.

Investment in staff, in terms of both time and funding, has been extensive in the years following REF
2014. Results are apparent and still increasing, producing a vibrant, sustainable research culture,
where staff are afforded opportunities to develop their individual career pathways, expertise, and
ambitions. The vitality of the Unit wide staff research culture is reflected in that of its research
postgraduate community.

B. Postgraduate

PGR strategy
Nearly a fifth of all postgraduates at the University of Chester sit within UoA3 (131 research
postgraduate students, of whom 94 are doctoral). Since 2016, numbers of postgraduate students
within the unit have increased by 20%. Of these, in 2016 25% were working towards professional
doctorates, rising to 50% in 2019; this is indicative of the Unit’s Vision, exemplified by Research and
Practice, and Learning in Practice, and of the Unit’s links with the wider professional health
community and service demands. There are increasing numbers of international students joining
MRes, feeding into increased PhD recruitment, and Doctorate in Public Health programmes.

A university restructure in 2017 led to the closure of the Graduate School and devolution of
responsibilities for postgraduate strategy and development to Registry, Academic Quality and
Standards (AQS), and individual Faculties. Senior Faculty Postgraduate Tutors (SFPGT) were
appointed by Faculty Deans to lead on the operationalisation of strategy within Faculty. SFPGTs
have been responsible for innovating and informing policy at a strategic level via University
Postgraduate Sub Committee, Postgraduate Forum and University Research Ethics Advisory Board
whilst communicating and implementing change in Faculty. This has enabled a more cohesive,
robust, and targeted approach, and improvements in many areas of the provision have been
achieved including enhanced metrics in the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey, students
completing doctoral studies in a shorter time frame (for part-time students this is now on average 6-
7 years), and increasingly students obtaining minor amendments at the viva voce examination.
Consequently, the changes have impacted positively on the PG student experience and overall
satisfaction.

PGR Development
There has been significant investment and improvement in the PGR research culture both
strategically and within Faculties. The university appointed a Postgraduate Engagement and
Enhancement Officer into AQS who led on the strategic offer. Working in co-production with SFPGTs
and student representatives, there is a programme of generic interprofessional activities including
an annual student-led symposium, a two-day writing workshop, study skills, and a newsletter. This
encourages PG students to engage with the wider University PG cohorts, sharing learning and
networking.

This has led to a steady increase in successful PhD completions across this REF period:
2013/14 – 1
2014/15 – 1.75
2015/16 – 9.65
2016/17 – 3.3
2017/18 – 8
2018/19 – 6.3
2019/20 – 7.1


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Complementing the University offer, Faculties provide a range of PG activities which are available
to all PG students, including conferences and symposia, journal clubs, lecture series, specialist guest
lectures and masterclasses. National and international conference attendance has increased and
included PGR training in specialist workshops hosted at Chester, or with attendance elsewhere, e.g.,
the university is a partner member of the Mercia Stem Cell Alliance (MSCA), which holds annual
workshops for PhD students and early career researchers in secretome biology (Chester), flow
cytometry (University of Birmingham), and real time 3D culture (University of Manchester).

Within Faculties, the implementation of a revised, robust Annual Progress Review (APR) process
has enhanced and improved the doctoral journey for students and supervisors. In the APR system
experienced independent assessors are appointed at intervals throughout the programme of study
to assess student achievement against pre-set criteria (milestones). This has been well received by
students and supervisory teams and has led to improvements in student satisfaction and
achievement.

C. Equality and Diversity
The unit adheres to the robust equality and diversity policies of the university. These are designed
and implemented to maximise the potential and aspirations of all staff, including researchers. Post
REF 2014, the university has successfully implemented a range of new standards, culminating in
the achievement of a number of respected awards including an Athena Swan Bronze award, the
Navajo Merseyside and Cheshire LGBTQA charter mark (one of only two universities to hold the
award), the Equality Challenge Unit’s Gender Equality mark, and the Job Centre Plus Disability Two
Ticks symbol. All staff are required to undergo statutory equality and diversity training (including
unconscious bias) via online modules. The Disabled staff group continues to make a significant
impact, and further networks have now been created to support staff across the university, including
the Women’s network, the LGBT+ staff group, the Parents’ network and the Carers’ network, and a
new Menopause network established in 2019. The Students’ Union are working alongside the Time
to Change organisation to combat mental health discrimination for students and staff. The annual
Diversity Festival continues to be an important event in the university and local community calendars,
with unit staff contributions in both attending and presenting.

At a unit level, two newly formed groups have contributed to resolving oft-overlooked issues linked
to equality and diversity; a Student empowerment group and the Neurodiversity group, open to all
staff and students, both those who identify as neurodiverse and those who wish to learn more about
neurodiversity.

To capture the PGR student voice, enhance the student experience, and improve the quality of
programmes, nominated student representatives attend relevant unit level boards and committees,
which include the Research committee, Ethics committee, Doctoral programmes committee, and
Professional Doctorate Programme management team.

The PGR student profile at the unit is diverse, with a range of age groups and professional
backgrounds; this diversity is supported by offering variety of part-time and full-time study
opportunities, with flexibility built into the design and delivery of curricula (for example, flexible
modular learning, targeted timetabling), in order to accommodate the distinctive needs of students.

The Unit recognises the need to consistently reassess equality and diversity measures so as to avoid
complacency or regression. Consequently, we acknowledge there are still some shortcomings in our
current provisions as regards recruitment and development of research staff and students. Unit-level
workforce analyses have revealed a lack of women in senior research positions, reductions in
research career opportunities linked to unbalanced managerial workloads as teaching seniority
increases, and the need for a review of the BAME strategy. To address these issues, the Unit is
following institution level advice on fair recruitment outlined in the university-wide Positive Action in
Recruitment Guide (such as ensuring mixed gender chairs and vice chairs on recruitment and
research committees to try to tackle unconscious bias), conducting a Unit-level staff review regarding
research vis-a-vis teaching workload allocations and consulting with specialist colleagues at both
the International Centre and the University’s Equality and Diversity team to raise awareness of

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
developments to BAME staff and student policies across the University of Chester as a whole. The
Unit’s future equality and diversity aspirations are to continue to vigorously adhere to equal
opportunities guidelines and policies, thus ensuring all staff and students are supported to realise
their research and career ambitions.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

A. Income
The faculties contributing to UoA3 have seen year on year increases in research income (see table
below).

 Year                Health & Social     Medicine & Life     Social Sciences Grand Total
                     Care                Sciences
 2013/14             £241,137            £14,168             £172,500            £427,805
 2014/15             £497,206            £138,429            £157,500            £793,135
 2015/16             £784,683            £171,985            £22,833             £979,501
 2016/17             £336,498            £103,188                                £439,686
 2017/18             £1,812,417          £171,295                                £1,983,712
 2018/19             £1,807,473          £49,089                                 £1,856,563
 2019/20             £763,773            £146,080                                £909,853
 Grand Total         £6,243,187          £794,234            £352,833            £7,390,254

The increases suggest income more than doubles between 2013/14 to 2019/20, and increases also
shows a substantial escalation over RAE/REF cycles with:
RAE 2008 - £1,500,000,
REF 2014 - £2,741,665 &
REF 2021 - £7,390,254

This demonstrates REF 2014 income was 1.8 times higher than RAE 2008, REF 2021 2.6 times
higher than REF 2014, and 4.7 times higher than RAE 2008.

B. Infrastructure & Facilities
In order to undertake cutting edge molecular and cellular medical research, the University of Chester
is equipped with much of the key equipment to facilitate such research. This includes all the basic
laboratory equipment, e.g., cell culture facilities, UV-vis and fluorescence spectrophotometers, UV-
vis and fluorescence plate readers, ultracentrifuges, qPCR and thermocycler systems, gel image
analysers, HPLC and other chromatography systems, and 3 multi-channel flow cytometers. We have
a dedicated cell imaging facility with 5 fluorescence microscopes of different capabilities, plus an
Electron microscope facility (based at our Thornton site).

Chester Medical School (CMS) also has a contract with the Liverpool Technology Directorate, to
allow staff and PGR students to access their facilities. This includes access to MRI, Cell Imaging
suites, Proteome Research, NMR Metabolomics, Cell Sorting and Isolation, Computational Biology,
Biomedical Electron Microscopy, Pre-clinical Imaging, Genomic Research and the Gene Mill, and in
vivo research facilities.

Through the Mercia Stem Cell Alliance, of which Professor Johnson was a founding member, and is
still active on the organising committee, CMS PGR students are also able to access additional
facilities through partner organisations.

There are facilities available for human clinical interventions including a phlebotomy suite, as well as
an exercise physiology lab with gas (O2/CO2) analysers, cycle ergometers, treadmills, ECG
equipment, bioelectrical impedance equipment, ambulatory blood pressure and pulse-wave velocity
monitors and spirometry equipment. Researchers have access to NOWFOOD, an EU-funded centre
of excellence supporting food and nutrition research, incorporating equipment for food chemistry and
analysis, food rheology texture and structure, nanotechnology, allergens, contaminants, and

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
authenticity. The centre also incorporates a fully equipped industrial production kitchen and a
sensory suite.

There are four interprofessional simulation facilities available on central campus sites. The simulation
suites were fully refurbished in July 2019 with a £500,000 investment and are designed to provide
an immersive research and learning environment. Developing research utilising simulation is
emerging, in particular in the incorporation of virtual reality to explore and experience the effects of
an illness or sensory defect, for example following a stroke, hearing or sight loss. During the first
wave of COVID-19, the facilities were utilised to train student nurses in the use of personal protective
equipment, and to concurrently evaluate the experience of student nurses during a period of
unprecedented national crisis. This has shown the potential of these facilities to serve not only as
training resources but also to offer an immersive research environment, especially as regards
pedagogy and professional practice studies.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

A. Collaboration and Contribution
Innovative collaboration and impactful contribution are core elements of the research culture at
Chester; seeking to solve complex societal issues through the utilisation of key networks and
partnerships.

Collaboration
From local to international level, researchers have formed effective collaborations with both
academic and societal partners. Projects conducted alongside regional NHS partners include
Taylor’s work on Rheumatology, Steven Jones’ on the impact of Coronavirus linked lockdowns on
people with intellectual disabilities, Nye and Harrison’s research into pregnancy related immunology
alongside partnerships with the NOWfood milk bank and local midwives, and Kingston’s work co-
chairing NHS England National Safeguarding Steering Group, and chairing NHS England
Safeguarding Adults National Network. Internationally, Buckley worked alongside the Azerbaijan
State Academy of Physical Education and Sport evaluating standards for cardiac rehabilitation. Li
researched with Massey University and the Christchurch Clinical Studies Trust in New Zealand and
in China on the 'Musseling up: high-value Greenshell™ mussel foods' project. Mabhala’s
Homelessness research led to work with the European Federation of National Organisations
Working with the Homeless (FEANTSA). Ellahi collaborated on the international project, the ‘Gene–
Nutrient Interactions (GeNuIne) Collaboration’ (led by the University of Reading), investigating the
effect of gene–nutrient interactions on cardiometabolic traits in Ghana, Turkey and Sri Lanka.), while
Mushtaq worked with the US National Institutes of Health (NIH) on their Vitamin D Standardisation
Program (VDSP).

Staff have relationships with universities across the world, including Mysore Medical College and
Research Institute India (Steven Jones), University of South Florida USA (Finnegan), University of
Fukui Japan (Johnson), Macau University China (Michelangeli), University of Oxford UK
(Harrison), University of Guelph Canada (Li), University Burgundy Dijon France (Al-Assaf), The
Singapore Institute of Technology (Speed), Hacettepe University Turkey (Ellahi) and The University
of Medical Science Iran (McSherry). A network of eminent visiting professors has allowed the
formation of significant research partnerships and alliances. Novel techniques and methodologies
have allowed greater collaboration with audiences oft excluded from research, for instance,
Kingston and Taylor led researchers evaluating the Brightlife project, which worked alongside
project partners to recruit and train non-academic ‘co-researchers’; fostering local connections,
facilitating research by people embedded within diverse communities and groups under study, and
creating a new route into research for those from non-academic backgrounds..

Contribution
Allied Health at Chester seeks to use research to propose novel solutions to real-life problems,
whether affecting local communities, or global populations. The following are some examples of
contributions to communities, organisations, and the research base in general. As a non-executive
Director of Brio Leisure (a Cheshire-based leisure centre operator), Kennedy has implemented

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research into the social-return-on-investment (SROI) for physical activity locally, showing a £15
million SROI of Brio Leisure services (a Cheshire-based leisure centre operator) to the local
economy and population, influencing leisure service delivery by the Local Authority. Mitchell was
jointly involved in a commissioned project funded by the Department of Education ‘Constructing and
Delivering Services of Support: an Evaluation of the Northwest Post-placement Adoption Support
Service’, which looked at hard to place children due to a variety of mental health issues. Mabhala’s
work on homelessness received front-page coverage in Chester-based newspapers and on BBC
news, stimulating debate on social media and amongst the public, and continues to inform Cheshire
West and Chester homelessness reduction strategy.

Buckley has appeared on both BBC and Channel 4 programmes on the Sedentary Office. His
expertise in cardiac rehabilitation has led to advising MacMillan Cancer Care and the Royal College
of Anaesthetists in developing national exercise standards for patients with cancer, and authoring
contributions to the International Olympic Committee Manual of Sports Cardiology. Li’s work on food
salt content has contributed to successful creation of products with full flavour and healthier levels
of fat and salt; a marketable attribute with significant opportunity to improve consumers’ health.
Sainsbury is selling 10% more meals as a result of generating competitive advantage through health
differentiation. McSherry’s Professional Doctorate Programme Evaluation incorporating the
Personal, Organisational, Professional and Employer (POPE) framework has influenced doctoral
teaching on a national scale. Speed’s long-term qualitative investigation into the effects of honour
killing within Palestinian families showed such killings increased shame and stigmatisation within
communities, contributing significantly to an understudied topic. Investigating new drugs that can
target and kill cancer cells through autophagic cell death pathways, Michelangeli has collaborated
on research which has led to the possibility of destroying caspase-resistant cancers by inducing cell
death.

With plans for the new Health and Wellbeing research institute underway, there is potential for ever
closer working relationships between staff within and across units at the University of Chester,
promoting sustainability of research across the institution, with consequent facilitation and
encouragement of opportunities to contribute to impactful research with partners, stakeholders and
communities.

B. Indicators of Wider Influence

Keynotes/Expert panels
   • Al-Assad: Keynote, The World Conference on Gum Arabic organised by United Nations
      Conference on Trade and Development “UNCTD". Khartoum, Sudan 2019, postponed due
      to the political situation in Sudan. Represented the UK in the Technical Experts Meeting
      organised by the International Atomic Energy Agency on the use of Radiation Technology in
      the Development of Active Packaging Materials, Budapest, Hungary, 2019.
   • Buckley: Keynote, International Congress of Cardiology, Beijing, China, 2015.
   • Ellahi: Keynote, Pakistan University of Agriculture Faisalabad, Palm Oil and its Future
      Perspectives, 2020. Keynote, Nutrition Research Methods conference Dec 2016 University
      of Agriculture, Pakistan. Invited speaker and delivered two workshops for capacity building
      at the Federation of African Union of Nutrition Scientists Conference (Tanzania 2015).
      Speaker at UK-Pakistan Research collaboration workshop funded by the British Council in
      Islamabad March 2015.
   • Finnegan: 3rd Nurse Education Today International Lecture, Scotland 2016. USA Academy
      of Nursing Expert panel Military Veterans Research Collaboration, Washington USA 2018.
      North West Academic Research Forum UK 2015.
   • Johnson: Global Initiative for Academic Networks, DST/UKIERI Symposium, Stem Cells and
      Tissue Regeneration, Chennai, India.
   • Kingston: Co-investigator for ESRC funded seminar series SALLY 'Safeguarding Adults and
      Legal Literacy' Economic Evaluation of Serious Case Reviews, 2018. Invited Annual lecture:
      The Frank Glendenning Memorial Lecture, Educational Gerontology, 2017.
   • Li: Nutraceuticals and Healthy Diets, New Zealand, 2016.


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Lovell: Grundlegende Voraussetzungen der Behandlung und Heilung im Massregelvollzug
       (20th Forensiche Fachtagung) (Bergen Hau, Germany) 2014. Engaging with Families and
       Communities’, University of South Australia, Adelaide, Australia 2015.
   •   Lucas: Invited speaker European School of Haematology Portugal 2014, 2015 and 2017.
   •   Speed: Older Chinese people in the North West of England, attitude to health and illness.
       Invited presentation, HUST University, Wuhan, China, The issues, challenges and problems
       of talking about end of life care with Chinese people: a review of the preliminary evidence.
       Singapore Institute of Technology, Singapore 2014.
   •   McSherry: SYNAPSE-2018 1st International Physiotherapy Conference, Exploratorium,
       Chitkara University, Punjab, India, 2018. An Introduction to Improvement Science. 5th
       International Conference on Professional Doctorates (ICPD-2015), Belfast, Ireland United
       2016. Practice Development & Patient Safety Keynote/Workshop Tehran University of
       Medical Sciences School of Nursing and Midwifery Tehran, Iran 2015. Visiting/keynote
       Speaker Essence of Nursing - quality. Croatia Nurse Association, Croatian Director
       Association and Nurse Association for Quality 2014.

Editorial Boards
    • Al-Assaf: International Journal of Food Science & Technology Editor, International Journal
        of Biological Macromolecules
    • Finnegan: Nurse Education Today (Assistant Editor), Journal of Advanced Nursing
        International Board
    • Steven Jones: Mental Health Nursing
    • Johnson: Spinal Cord (Nature Journal), Bioscience Reports, Veterinary Neurology and
        Neurosurgery
    • Kingston: Journal of Adult Protection, Social Welfare Ethics and Health Expectations
    • Michelangeli: Nature Cell Biology, Journal of Cell Science, Journal of Bioscience Reports
    • Speed: Associate Editor for Primary Healthcare Research and Development

Patents
Lucas: New priority patent application FI20195315, filed 18.04.2019, METHOD FOR PREDICTING
RESPONSE TO TREATMENT WITH TYROSINE KINASE INHIBITORS AND RELATED METHODS

Staff Memberships of Associations
   • Al-Assaf: Technical Expert and Consultant, International Atomic Energy Agency, Life
       membership, International Society for Hyaluronan Sciences
   • Finnegan: North West Armed Forces Network Committee and MOD Veterans' Strategy
       Academic Advisory Group
   • Johnson: Steering Committee for the Mercia Stem Cell Alliance
   • Michelangeli: Executive Committee member / Trustee, UK Biochemical Society Education
       Committee, member of Federation of European Biochemical Societies (FEBS) education
       committee

Visiting Professorships
    • Sir Professor Paul Cosford (Emeritus Medical Director of Public Health England)
    • Professor Jennie Harries (Deputy Chief Medical Officer England)
    • Professor David Hunter (former Chief Executive, Nuffield Foundation)
    • Professor Duncan Selby (previous CEO Public Health England)
    • Professor Richard Parish (previous CEO The Royal Society of Public Health)
    • Professor Susan Benbow (previous Chair of the Faculty of Old Age Psychiatry)
    • Professor Paul Lincoln (previous CEO The Health Forum)
    • Professor Martin Vernon (National Clinical Director for Older People and Integrated Care
        NHS England)




                                                                                          Page 17
