Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution:
Sheffield Hallam University
Unit of Assessment:
UOA28 - History

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context and structure

History is firmly established as one of Sheffield Hallam University's (SHU’s) strongest research
areas. We specialise in modern and contemporary history from the late eighteenth century. Our
vision is a global one, and we make distinctive contributions in six key thematic areas: transnational
histories and imperial encounters; war, violence and society; labour, work and social movements;
women, gender and sexuality; race and ethnicity; and business and finance. We are committed to
producing outputs of the highest quality and to widening and deepening our engagement with
audiences beyond the academy.

The Unit comprises ten professors, three readers and three senior lecturers (15.41FTE), who all
combine research with teaching as members the History Subject Group within the Department of
Humanities. All have Significant Responsibility for Research.

History research takes place under the umbrella of the Humanities Research Centre (HRC), which
promotes ground-breaking international research, applied knowledge and creative practice
in English, History and Stage & Screen. It provides an essential community of enquiry for humanities
scholars and encourages interdisciplinary connections. It is our main source of support and finance
and fosters connections to key partners in the Sheffield City Region, as well as nationally and
internationally. The HRC is one of four constituent centres in the University's Culture and Creativity
Research Institute (CCRI) through which History scholars connect to researchers and research
facilities across disciplines.

Research strategy

Our research complements and supports the University's mission to ‘transform lives’ (see
Institutional Environment Statement), and is designed to advance knowledge and offer fresh
interpretive perspectives on modern and contemporary history. Our strategy aligns to that of the
HRC, and to the University's commitment to applied knowledge.

Implementation of the strategy outlined in our REF2014 submission has resulted in the following
achievements:

   1. An increase in the number of research active staff from 15.0 to 15.41 through new
      appointments at early career (Evans, Offiler) and more senior levels (Robertson, Hamilton),
      with both research leadership potential and grant capture considered in the selection
      process.

   2. Enhancement of the quality of our research outputs through continuation of our annual
      study leave programme and allocation of up to £2,000 per annum for individual research
      expenses. This approach enabled us to complete a large number of high-quality outputs
      across the Unit, including ten monographs (all entered into REF2021), thirty-five peer-
      reviewed journal articles (twenty entered into REF2021), eleven (co-)edited collections (five
      of them entered into REF2021) and thirty-two book chapters (four entered into REF2021).
      Our decision to double-weight eight of the ten monographs reflects not only our confidence in
      their scholarly weight and world-leading quality, but also feedback taken on board from
      REF2014.

   3. A substantial increase in PhD numbers, with successful completions jumping to fourteen
      from only three in REF2014. This has been achieved through significantly enhancing the

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       infrastructure supporting our postgraduate students, the provision of university-funded
       studentships, and recruitment from our new MA by Research in History. One student was
       funded through our partnership in the North East Consortium for Arts and Humanities
       (NECAH), which provided an interdisciplinary collaborative PhD studentship programme in
       cultural heritage. We are also currently supervising seven NECAH PhDs (one at SHU, six
       with second supervisors at SHU), and two PhDs through the AHRC Heritage Consortium
       (AH/L002442/1) (2015-20), both at SHU and both due to submit in early 2021.

   4. Significant advances in our formal international research collaborations, linked to
      awards of visiting fellowships (three to Australia, three to the United States, one to South
      Africa and one to China) and participation in externally-funded projects.

   5. Raising our external grant capture to £103,929, from £71,140 in REF2014. This has
      included a notable increase in income from UKRI Research Councils and via collaborations
      with partners overseas. Our strategy was based on regular workshops and talks from
      internal and external experts, the sharing of successful applications across Humanities,
      establishing a system for advising on draft applications, and providing teaching relief to
      individuals preparing applications. Although we would have liked to have achieved more in
      this area, we have managed to produce a large number of high-quality outputs and to sustain
      a vibrant research environment without relying on a huge amount of external funding.

Our informal and overlapping research groupings have advanced research agendas in six key
thematic areas:

Transnational exchanges and imperial encounters
We have played a leading role in reshaping the field of transnational and imperial history through
placing women at centre stage (Midgley, Stibbe, Twells). We have shown the new insights to be
gained from situating nation-focused histories within wider global contexts – for example, through
exploring how the global dynamics of development, repression and decolonisation informed South
African apartheid (Evans). We have advanced the project of ‘deprovincialising Europe’ by
demonstrating the deep interconnectedness and cross-currents of influence between European and
extra-European histories (Aitken, Midgley, Stibbe, Thoral). We have excavated overlooked forms of
cultural exchange between and beyond empires (Hamilton, Stibbe). We have also offered new
perspectives on well-established areas of research – for example, showing how a focus on the
British navy in the Caribbean informs the history of African enslavement (Hamilton); how a focus on
Iran throws new light on US Cold War foreign policy (Offiler); how study of the shipping industry
illuminates processes of twentieth-century globalisation (Petersson); and how understanding of
popular political movements is enhanced by exploring the transnational networks within which they
developed (Hamilton, Roberts, Taylor).

War, violence and society
We have thrown new light on the history of war and its impacts. Our work has illuminated the
hitherto under-researched topics of siege warfare and colonial counter-insurgency in the nineteenth
century (Collins, Thoral); offered new insights into the history of WW1 through the first examination
of civilian internment as a global phenomenon (Stibbe); presented new insights into the shaping of
wartime masculinities and sexual violence on the ‘home front’ in WW2 (Twells); and illuminated how
the militarisation of the Bantustan state during the late apartheid years affected South Africa’s
transition to democracy (Evans).

Labour, work and social movements
Our researchers have explored commemoration and memory in relation to the forging of working-
class politics. Roberts has shown the importance of the cult of the radical hero to the Chartist
movement, while Taylor has outlined how migrant memories of Britain were at the heart of the
political platform of the early Labour party in Australia. We have also excavated the history of
neglected sectors of the workforce, including the English farmworker (Verdon); white-collar workers
in Britain after WW1 (Robertson); Africans who lived through apartheid-era mass relocation to
Bantustans (Evans); and the workforce in international shipping (Petersson).

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Women, gender and sexuality
Our research in this field has widened understandings of the impact of WW1 on women’s work
through study of two important but neglected groups: female office workers (Robertson) and rural
women (Verdon). It has also deepened knowledge of women’s activism after WW1 (Robertson,
Stibbe); deployed under-used sources such as pocket diaries to access the interiority of ‘ordinary’
women and develop insights into sex and romance as aspects of wartime masculinities (Twells);
traced and challenged the marginalisation of women in heritage discourse and community history
projects (Twells); and delineated the emergence of ‘cosmopolitan feminisms’ while highlighting
South Asian feminist agency (Midgley).

Race and ethnicity
We have undertaken painstaking research uncovering how the historical presence of sub-Saharan
Africans in Germany challenges representations of Europeanness and Blackness as mutually
exclusive categories (Aitken), and have also sketched out a decolonising agenda in relation to
regional and public history in Britain (Twells). We have uncovered the histories of black naval
officers and explored questions of race and liberty in the eighteenth-century British navy (Hamilton).
We have produced a detailed study, drawing on oral histories, of the experiences of Africans
subjected to apartheid-era relocation (Evans); highlighted the new ways of thinking about
citizenship, nationality and ‘race’ associated with civilian internment during WW1 (Stibbe); explored
the role of cultural memory in Australian emigrant and diasporic families and communities (Taylor);
and offered a new perspective on the location of ‘home’ in relation to the politics of race and ethnicity
between metropole and colony (Midgley).

Business and finance
Our research in this area has provided the first in-depth study of the collaboration between business
and the British state in arming the western front during WW1 (Lewis); shown how international
shipping became a twentieth-century engine of globalisation (Petersson); applied to economic
history the disaster management cycle framework to reveal how financial and economic disasters
unfold through the same stages as natural and industrial disasters (Singleton); and illuminated the
political economy of the financial sector in mid twentieth-century Britain through analysing plans by
the Labour left to nationalise high street banks (Singleton).

Research strategy for the next REF cycle

Midgley retired at the end of 2020 and was replaced by Stibbe as UoA coordinator from 1 January
2021. Stibbe has worked continuously with Midgley in the research leadership team since 2007 and
deputised for her during a period of research leave in 2015-16.

For the next cycle, we have set the following strategic goals:

   1. To increase grant capture. Mechanisms will include asking all colleagues to develop clear,
      long-term research plans that identify funding streams as well as outputs; participation in
      peer review and mentoring schemes at the UoA and wider levels; and using quality-related
      (QR) income and academic work planning to direct resource to support the development of
      major grants.

   2. To maintain and enhance support for high quality output production. This will be
      achieved through the proven system of regular study leave and university funding of seed
      corn research expenses. Support will be particularly targeted at early career researchers
      (ECRs) appointed to replace colleagues leaving or retiring, including additional teaching relief
      during their first year of appointment and a rigorous mentoring system. As we enter the next
      REF cycle, we have five monographs and one edited collection of essays in an advanced
      state of preparation and a further two monographs, four edited collections and one journal
      special issue under contract.



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   3. To build on and develop our world-leading research excellence in histories of
      transnational exchanges and imperial encounters, and to consolidate our strengths in our
      other overlapping key thematic areas.

   4. To boost interdisciplinary collaborations, for instance through intellectual engagement
      with other research groups within the recently formed Culture and Creativity Research
      Institute. This will include formulating major grant applications, for example in the developing
      field of creative history (Twells) and the study of race and inequality (Aitken, Evans,
      Hamilton, Petersson).

   5. To nurture and expand existing external collaborations, including our strong link with La
      Trobe University, Australia, to maximise opportunities for the capture of large-scale research
      grant awards at international level.

Impact strategy

Implementing the strategy we outlined in our REF2014 submission enabled us to identify areas
where public engagement work had strong potential to be translated into measurable impact. This
involved a number of processes:

   1. Cultivation of partnerships with creative arts institutions, NGOs and cultural heritage
      projects. At a national level, these include Verdon’s work for major TV series for BBC1,
      BBC2 and Channel 4, and Hamilton’s collaboration with the National Maritime Museum and
      the National Trust for Scotland's Facing our Past initiative. In Sheffield we have developed
      closer relationships with a range of local partners (including Weston Park Museum, Kelham
      Island Industrial Museum, Graves Art Gallery and the Millennium Gallery) and have engaged
      with local heritage policy development through Twells’ membership of Sheffield City
      Council’s Joined-up Heritage Group. Further afield, Stibbe has worked closely on exhibitions
      and study days with the Internment Research Centre at Hawick, the Centre for WW1
      Internment at Knockaloe, Isle of Man, and the Zitadelle Museum in Spandau, Berlin. Aitken
      has collaborated with local branches of the Goethe Institute in Yaounde, Cameroon and
      Freiburg, Germany, the Treptow and Schöneberg-Tempelhof Museums in Berlin, and two
      NGOs: The Initiative of Black People in Germany and Postkolonial Berlin.

   2. Integration of research and impact planning. We achieved this through regular audits of
      engagement activities, staff annual performance review, HRC awaydays, and participation in
      workshops - at which internal and external experts on impact and practitioners of public
      engagement spoke. As a result, the majority of staff are actively embedding impact pathways
      in their research activities and disseminating their findings to wider publics through events
      and collaborations in line with Sheffield Hallam’s ‘research mission to become the world’s
      leading applied university’ (see Institutional Environment Statement).

   3. Close liaison with SHU impact officers. This allowed us to draw on their expertise in the
      following areas: data collection and preservation, measuring reach and significance, offering
      constructive criticism on ICS drafts, and running impact workshops. It also enabled us to
      respond to feedback from REF2014 in respect to clarifying unit and institutional support for
      individuals.

   4. Allowing mutually-reinforcing impact work to grow organically across the Unit. For
      each potential ICS up to £3000 could be applied for per year, while all Unit members could
      bid for internal financial support for public engagement activities connected with their
      research projects. The two ICSs eventually selected for inclusion (Aitken on ‘Germany's
      Black Diaspora Community, 1884-1945’; Midgley on ‘Feminism, Anti-Slavery and Dissent’)
      are exemplars of our strategy for identifying and implementing different pathways for impact
      on individuals, under-represented communities, heritage projects and museums, while
      providing rigorous measures of reach and significance. They also grew out of our collective
      world-leading research in histories of race, transnational exchanges and imperial encounters.

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   5. Appointment of an Impact Fellow in History, Gertie Whitfield, using monies (£6000) from
      the University’s Strategic Research Funding Initiative. With Stibbe, she developed an
      education pack on WW1 internment for Y5 and 6 primary school children, which was first
      trialled at a local school with 25 pupils (March 2016).

   6. Allocation of substantial QR funds (£17,200) to assist the development of impact across
      the Unit. This was in response to the sub-panel’s feedback from REF2014, namely that
      ‘impact, to be properly achieved, requires investment’. For instance, QR funds enabled
      further school visits by Stibbe and Whitfield (five schools; 264 pupils) and the enhancement
      of teaching materials. In 2016-17 Twells received £3000 to produce a teaching resource with
      Whitfield for secondary schools based on WW2 diaries, and in 2018-19 Stibbe and Twells
      received a further £4,800 to develop a web platform with Whitfield for open access teaching
      resources. This is steadily being scaled up (https://whitworks.co.uk/free-resources.html).
      Further QR funding supported a travelling exhibition on Germany’s black diaspora
      community at venues around Britain and Germany and to Cameroon, accompanied by
      Aitken. This contributed to his ICS.

Impact strategy for the next REF cycle

For the next cycle, our strategy will be:

   1. To continue to embed impact from the outset in research projects, in mentoring and the
      Annual Research Away Day, in the application process for periods of research leave, in the
      annual Performance and Development Review process, in inter-disciplinary and international
      collaborations, and in support given to ECRs in their first year in post.

   2. To push forward with our organic approach to impact work, meaning that we will support
      a total of three continuing projects (Robertson, Stibbe, Verdon – see further details in section
      4) while keeping substantial funding in reserve to foster new and emerging activities. The
      entire strategy will be monitored through regular peer review and audits of the public
      engagement and impact work/potential of all members of the Unit.

   3. To build on our now considerable collective expertise in writing teaching packs, creating
      online resources, conducting school-based activities, mounting public exhibitions, engaging
      with social media and collaborating with heritage projects. Above all, we will continue to see
      impact, like outputs, as a whole group enterprise.

Interdisciplinary research

Staff exchange/Secondments within SHU
The location of History researchers in the HRC fosters awareness of commonalities of research
interest between historians and their Humanities colleagues. This led to an interdisciplinary
conference ‘Reassessing the Penguin Specials’ at the University, convened by Taylor with Professor
Chris Hopkins, Head of the HRC, and the SHU Middle-Brow Readers and Readership Group (June
2017), and including papers by Taylor and Verdon. The Penguin Specials were a series of books
dealing with topical issues published between the 1930s and 1980s and are an important source for
social historians.

Interdisciplinary engagements extending beyond Humanities are also actively encouraged. We were
partners in the ‘Human Rights Futures’ conference in the Helena Kennedy Centre for International
Justice in December 2018. Taylor’s election to a Sheffield Institute for Policy Studies (SIPS)
Fellowship at the University in 2017 has enabled him to contribute a valuable historical perspective
to its initiatives in influencing policy-making at national and local level. Since 2020 he has been on a
SIPS working group considering the theme of ‘injustice’, again offering historical perspectives drawn
from his own research on social activism and protest movements.


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Pump priming research through internal schemes
With Hamilton as PI, Petersson, Aitken, Evans and Thoral founded the Race and Inequalities
research cluster, supported by funding from the University’s Creating Knowledge Implementation
Plan (CKIP). The cluster draws together colleagues from across the University (including Law,
Criminology, Social Policy, Arts and Media) to explore historical and contemporary forms of racism
and inequality, and actively to promote diversity and equality of opportunity in the academy. The
group has been advised by Professor Hakim Adi (Chichester) and by the Stuart Hall Foundation.

Twells, together with colleagues from Sociology and Psychology, received a CKIP Challenge Fund
Award (£17,500) in December 2018 for collaborative work on a project ‘Learning about Sex,
Relationships and Power: A Cross Disciplinary Approach’, which feeds directly into our ‘women,
gender and sexuality’ research area. The group has so far produced three educational resources,
one of which draws on Twells’ research on a young woman’s diary from WW2.

Open research

The Unit complies with University policy and strategy (see Institutional Environment Statement),
including depositing of work with Elements (the University’s publications management system) and
SHURA (its institutional repository). Gold open access was supported from the University’s QR
funding for two history outputs submitted: one journal article (Midgley, output 2206) and one edited
volume (Petersson, output 3739). In addition, we have developed open access teaching resources
as part of our public engagement work (see point 6 of our impact strategy above). Finally, Stibbe
published a peer-reviewed, research-based article in the open-access international journal Studies
in National Movements (Vol. 5, 2020); and contributed two 8,000-word handbook essays and two
shorter pieces to the open-access, peer-reviewed academic website: 1914-1918-online, housed at
the Free University, Berlin, and Aitken’s 2015 article in German History (output 3556), was included
in a ‘Race in Modern Germany’ virtual open access issue of the same journal in October 2020.

Research integrity

Members of the Unit receive regular ethics training and updates at the annual HRC Away Day,
including from the Head of the University Ethics Committee, as well as at departmental meetings
during each year. We have all completed training on how to submit ethics reviews to the University’s
online review system and have access to continuing 1:1 support from specialist staff. This has
proved especially important in relation to our work on histories of sexuality in the public sphere and
education. In addition, our PGR students have to complete basic and, if their project involves human
participants, advanced ethics training through the Epigeum online system. This is again
supplemented by 1:1 support where needed. Approval of a student’s programme of research six
months after registration is dependent on completing the appropriate level of Epigeum training, and
ethical approval for the project is checked at confirmation of PhD stage.


2. People

Staffing strategy and staff development

Staff profile
During the cycle, three staff members left, and one moved to a 0.41 fractional contract. We recruited
four members of staff, two at lecturer level (Evans, Offiler) and two at more senior level (Hamilton,
Robertson). Factoring in internal promotions, by the end of the cycle our profile looked like this (with
the 2014 position in brackets):




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                 Female                    Male                     Total
 Professors                       3 (1)                   6.41 (5)                 9.41 (6)
 Readers                          1 (1)                     2 (0)                    3 (1)
 Principal Lecturers              0 (1)                     0 (1)                    0 (2)
 Senior Lecturers                 2 (3)                     1 (3)                    3 (6)
 Total                            6 (6)                   9.41 (9)                15.41 (15)

Staff development
The Unit organises specific disciplinary support, and aligns to the HRC, which has an over-arching
strategy for, and a programme of, staff development. This includes a year-long mentoring
programme for ECRs involving senior researchers from across the disciplines, with further support
offered thereafter. There are also university-wide mentoring schemes which unit staff have taken
part in both as mentors and as mentees. The Head of HRC, Head of Department and UoA
coordinator ensure that researcher development plays a central part in the annual Performance and
Development Review with line-managers, in which all staff in the University participate. The Unit’s
approach to researcher development aligns to the University implementation of, and support for, the
Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (see Institutional Environment
Statement).

Staffing and recruitment policy
In appointments since 2014, we have prioritised transnational encounters (Hamilton, Offiler); race
(Evans); and labour history (Robertson). We recruit all academic staff on permanent teaching and
research contracts and support all such staff to develop high-quality research sustained across the
whole of their careers. The Unit has taken full advantage of progression opportunities within the
University and has the highest proportion of professors and readers of any unit at SHU (see the staff
profile sub-section above). All staff are fully integrated into the Unit’s research culture and have
opportunities to progress (see the staff development and research support sub-sections). The Unit
and the University have enabled flexible working and support for staff wishing to reduce their
fractions. The demographic of the Unit makes retirements after the current REF period likely: we aim
to replace departing staff with scholars working in the broad field of transnational exchanges and
imperial encounters to ensure that we remain world leaders in this area. We will continue to provide
a vibrant environment for ECRs to establish themselves and for mid-career researchers to progress
to senior research roles.

Research support
All staff in the Unit have equal entitlement to apply for research funding (including for impact) which
amounts to just under £52,000 per annum, these funds being allocated to the Unit from QR income.
All staff in the Unit have been awarded research leaves lasting for a full semester during the current
REF period, with twenty-one having been taken since January 2014. The sequence of research
leaves is determined by an application process which considers the needs of individual researchers
and the Unit as a whole.

Impact support
In 2013 all staff in the Unit were encouraged to identify potential impact projects arising from their
research, with six, then three, being developed over the next five years. Two of them were submitted
as ICSs to this exercise. We allocated targeted impact funding of £17,200 for impact and enabled
ICS leaders to apply for additional funds. All the provisional ICS leaders were readers or professors,
and the initial work was done in their research time allocations, but after 2018 an additional sixty
hours per year were allocated to the leaders of the three continuing case studies. In 2018 the Unit
worked with other Humanities ICS authors to peer-review all draft case studies and to share
approaches. The University’s professorial and readership criteria were updated in 2014 to include
the leadership and achievement of impact. This contributed to successful progression for several
unit members in the period (Aitken, Roberts, Robertson and Twells to readerships; Aitken, Hamilton,
Twells and Verdon to chairs).



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research students

We have seen a very significant growth in our postgraduate community, with a more than four-fold
increase in successful completions since REF2014. History research students are located in the
CCRI, which provides an administrative infrastructure and enables them to be part of a wider
community, with links to those researching in cognate areas. Alongside the fourteen successful
completions, there are currently ten students at various stages of work on their PhDs. Thesis topics
are spread across all six areas of research focus within the Unit.

Recruitment
We recruit students with the independence of mind and drive to complete a study making an original
contribution to knowledge in a timely fashion, and who bring with them a feasible project in one of
our areas of strength and expertise. Our system of learning contracts and disabilities advice enables
reasonable adjustments so that students are supported in producing and defending PhD-quality
work. Suggested research areas listed in PhD advertisements are phrased in a way to include topics
aligned to the agenda of decolonising the curriculum, and members of staff publicise our PhD offer,
including grants, through networks that reach students of BAME backgrounds.

Over this REF cycle we offered two types of scholarships: three-year VC’s scholarships without a
teaching element attached, and three-and-a-half year Graduate Teaching Assistant (GTA)
scholarships. Holders of the latter are required to contribute to teaching from the second year. They
are prepared for their task through a ‘PhD students who teach’ course in their first year. This also
qualifies them for the HEA Associate Fellowship.

All PhD students, whether GTAs, VC’s scholars, self-funded or funded by other bodies, are given the
opportunity to develop their teaching skills.

Studentships from major funding bodies
SHU was part of the AHRC Heritage Consortium and the North of England Consortium for the Arts
and Humanities (NECAH), and three students based at SHU received studentships through these
schemes. In addition, six students funded through NECAH have a second supervisor at SHU.

Monitoring and support mechanisms

Monitoring
Students pass through formal stages of assessment after the first six months (Approval of Research
Programme) and twelve months (Confirmation of PhD). Outside these stages, monitoring is
achieved through various formal and informal mechanisms. Supervisors and students have regular
supervision meetings and alert the Postgraduate Research Tutor (PGRT) should any problems
arise. The PGRT regularly sees PhD students and makes use of these occasions to monitor
engagement and mood. Annually, all supervisors are surveyed electronically about their students’
progress. PG students’ general opinion is tested through the PRES (and a localised version of it in
years PRES does not run). Recently, a survey on PG student mental health and the issues affecting
it has been conducted and proposals on how to address the issues highlighted are currently being
drawn up.

Support
Existing support mechanisms include the role of the PGRT; mechanisms to raise issues such as
harassment, discrimination, hate crime and violence with a university-wide Report and Support team
outside the Graduate School; disability services and learning contracts; and forums for peer support
that have emerged from and are sustained by a PGR student community that is now much more
vibrant than in the past.

Covid-19
In response to the Covid-19 pandemic, CCRI intensified monitoring, and PGRTs and administrators
met more frequently to review student engagement and progress. Students are offered weekly drop-
ins and regular catch-up events with their PGRTs. Based on the outcome of an initial review of the

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
risks posed by Covid-19 to the timely completion of PGR projects, the University introduced
additional support measures, including a fee-free three-month extension offered to all PGR students;
a three-month extension to all studentships, irrespective of the source of funding; and a further
extension of studentships for up to three months available on application.

Postgraduate research training
Humanities PG students go through a formal programme of six fortnightly two-hour Research
Methods workshops over their first semester. The workshops end with project presentations
attended by supervisors and PhD students in their second and third years.

Throughout the teaching year there is a programme of fortnightly events addressing key skills such
as presenting and writing conference papers, stages in the PhD lifecycle, and topics suggested by
the students themselves. Occasionally, larger, full-day events are held on issues such as careers
and personal development.

Humanities research students meet monthly in a Postgraduate Research Group where they present
research and discuss readings, as well as matters of common concern. This group, launched by
Professor Robbie Aitken, is now firmly established and has continued long after the foundational
cohort of students completed their studies. It has its own web presence:
https://postgradgroupshu.wordpress.com/

PhD students are integral to the research activities of the Unit and the HRC. PGR students have
taken an active role in the staff research seminars in recent years, not just attending sessions and
participating in discussions, but also presenting their own research papers and proposing themes
and speakers. Stibbe’s and Aitken’s involvement in the informal group ‘German History in the North’,
which runs occasional day workshops at northern universities, has allowed three of our PGR
students to present their findings to peers and academics over the cycle.

Finally, since 2018, PGR students have organised their own full-day, multi-panel PG research
conference at SHU. These conferences, supported with funding from the Graduate School and the
HRC, have been extremely successful in terms of developing and showcasing the organisational
skills and academic achievements of our PGR students. It is a sign of a vibrant and sustainable PGR
community that the responsibility for organising these conferences is both shared and passed on
from cohort to cohort.

Postgraduate achievements

Among our 2014-20 doctoral students, Dr Alan Malpass has published his thesis as a monograph
with Palgrave and has secured a full-time permanent lectureship in Military History at Bishop
Grosseteste University, Dr Robert May has published a peer-reviewed article in the Journal of
Imperial and Commonwealth History, and Dr Joseph Stanley won the Yorkshire History Prize for his
article ‘Infatuated men! Confrontation and combination in the Yorkshire coalfield, 1786-1801’. Dr
Chris Corker has a full-time lectureship in International Business Strategy at the University of York
and won the 2017 Coleman Prize from the Association of Business Historians for excellence in new
business history research. Dr Adam Gilbert is HE Quality Assurance Lead at Doncaster College and
University Centre, Dr Alan Manry is an associate professor in history at Rochester University, USA,
and Dr Tessa Dunlop is a broadcaster and author of several history books. Among current PhD
students, Victoria Taylor has conducted a podcast with Dan Snow on the 80th anniversary of the
Battle of Britain, won the 2020 Royal Air Force Museum Doctoral Bursary, and is writing a chapter
for a CUP volume on ‘Churchill and bombing’; and Alex Wilson runs a new vimeo channel
showcasing films and videos linked to his research.

Equality, diversity and inclusion

The Department of Humanities and the HRC deploy University policies and processes, such as the
Hallam Deal, Race Charter, and mandatory leadership and management training, to promote
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (ED&I) in everything we do, including the recruitment of staff and

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
PGRs and allocation of research funding and sabbaticals. For example, all staff complete mandatory
Unconscious Bias training, and recruiting managers complete a second recruitment-focussed
Unconscious Bias training module, to ensure that we are actively aware of barriers to ED&I.

The Department has a dedicated Equality Lead, who is a senior colleague responsible for
Department and HRC-wide initiatives, in order to widen participation and support inclusion for
students and staff. Research students and Unit staff are encouraged to get involved in a number of
initiatives including decolonising curriculum work, a new anti-racism reading group, as well as
advising on ways of advertising and opening up opportunities for research students from non-
traditional backgrounds.

The HRC research leave scheme allows for postponing research leave due to long-term illness.
Research students have access to University-wide processes for suspension of studies for long-term
illness; students in the Unit with reported disabilities or additional learning needs can apply to have a
‘learning contract’ established, which takes into account reasonable adjustments and is agreed with
supervisory teams and the Head of Department to enable flexibility including deadline extensions.
Research in disability studies in the HRC has been shared to help to incorporate disability
awareness into our practice as research leaders, managers and PGR supervisors in the HRC and
Humanities Department.

We recognise our responsibility to staff and research students who are carers or returning from
parental leave, and effectively deploy University policies covering flexible working and parental
leave. Flexible working has been enabled for a number of research staff in the Unit to ensure that
they can maintain a balance between caring responsibilities and research and teaching. The
Department-wide research leave scheme allows for postponing research leave due to parental
leave, including in the case of one member of the Unit during the 2014-20 cycle. Arrangements are
also in place for an enhanced process for research leave application for eligible applicants returning
from periods of parental leave to ensure equality of access to support.

Through HRC funding, Unit staff with caring responsibilities are supported to attend conferences and
to engage in other research-related travel; for example research staff with young children or lone
parents have been enabled to travel to conferences with their child via the usual University booking
processes, with guidance from Health and Safety.

The greater gender diversity among the most senior members of the Unit (three women professors,
compared to just one in 2014) has been partly aided through university mentoring schemes such as
ASPIRE. The latter was originally designed to support increased progression by female staff to
readerships and chairs, and is now extended to all staff and different kinds of career progression.
Verdon was appointed to a personal chair in 2018 after participating in this scheme in 2016-17.

Sheffield Hallam is a Stonewall Diversity Champion and runs an initiative called LBGT+ Allies which
invites any member of staff to become a visible advocate. Several members of the HRC and
Department are active members of the Allies network, helping to create a working environment
where LGBT+ members of the Department feel welcome and included. Recent doctoral completions
and research projects by members of the Unit and Humanities colleagues tackle questions of gender
and sexuality in the public sphere and education, including Higher Education.


3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research funding

During the cycle the Unit had three major successes with grant bids:

Hamilton: PI, AHRC Research Network Grant, ‘An empire of islands: concepts, contexts and
collections’, in partnership with Dr John McAleer (Southampton) and the National Maritime Museum.
Award: AH/N003225/1, £44,282 (fec). 2016-17, with £20,192 coming to SHU. Hamilton led the

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
project and convened two of the three international workshops. The project produced an online
exhibition ('Islands and Empires') and a companion volume in the Oxford History of the British
Empire series (forthcoming June 2021).

Midgley: Australian Research Council Research Project Award: Partner Investigator in collaborative
project ‘Beyond Empire: transnational religious networks and liberal cosmopolitanisms 1860-1950’,
led by Dr Jane Haggis at Flinders University. Three-year project January 2017-December 2019.
Project ID: DP170104310 total award: AUD 333,500, of which AUD 34,665 (£19,895) came to SHU.
Midgley participated in a series of conference panels and co-organised a symposium on
‘Cosmopolitics: past and present’, which led to her journal article in Itinerario (output 2206) and to a
forthcoming journal special issue.

Robertson PI, AHRC Leadership Fellowship (£114,855 fec, of which £47,738 came to SHU), ‘The
Clerical Profession and the Administrative Revolution: The Rise of the Modern Workplace in Britain
1919-1979’. Partner institutions: The Working-Class Movement Library, Salford and the Bishopsgate
Institute, London), 2015-17. This led to the publication ‘Women at Work: Activism, Feminism and the
Rise of the Female Office Worker’ in Laybourn and Shepherd (eds.), Labour: The British Labour
Movement and Working People’s Lives (Manchester University Press, 2017) and a set of public
engagement activities and impacts (see section 4 below).

On top of this, the University allocated £1,831,340 of QR income to the Unit in the period 2014-20,
including £363,923 to fund non-pay research support such as travel, conference and archive
attendance, and permissions.

Members of the Unit also received external funding totalling £12,460 + US$8,099 + AUS$9,970 that
was not reported in HESA returns. The vast majority of this was for the personal visiting fellowships
abroad listed in section 1 above (point 4 of our research strategy). The principal outcome of all
visiting fellowships was high quality research outputs. The fellowships also fed into our strategy for
broadening and deepening international collaborations by allowing participation in cross-border
scholarly networks and research bids.

Infrastructure and facilities

Administrative support is provided by the University’s Research and Innovation Service (RIS) which
operates a hub and spoke model of service delivery via a centrally-based unit (29FTE). RIS assists
with grant applications to Research Councils and other funders, as well as hosting a monthly forum
for UoA Coordinators and Impact Leads across the University. It also provides an overarching
researcher training programme and manages the University's Doctoral School. In addition, the CCRI
team (9FTE) offers dedicated support for events organisation, project administration, Postgraduate
Research (student, supervisor and management support), Health and Safety, research surgeries,
and communications and online presence. An Innovations Manager works across the CCRI.

The Library provides quality academic resources in electronic and hardcopy format, with excellent IT
facilities. Staff members have access to an unlimited Document Supply Service. Databases include
British Periodicals, Periodical Archives Online, AM Explorer, Mass Observation Online, Historical
Abstracts with Full Text, ProQuest One Literature, Historical Texts and UK Parliamentary Papers.
The Library Research Support team has a member with liaison responsibilities for the CCRI. The
team is also responsible for providing detailed guidance through its website, training sessions and
1:1 support. Open Access is facilitated through information provision and training, including for use
of Elements and SHURA.


4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaboration and contribution to the research base

In line with the University’s Creating Knowledge Implementation Plan, we have initiated, fostered

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and participated in a range of collaborative research projects and intellectual exchanges at local,
national and international levels. These have been developed through visiting fellowships (eight in
total), the formation of research networks and the co-organisation of international workshops,
symposia and conferences, leading to the publication of co-written and co-edited books and journal
special issues.

We have drawn on a set of collaborations to advance the research base in the following areas:

Transnational exchanges and imperial encounters
This is exemplified by Midgley’s award of a Visiting International Fellowship at Flinders University in
2014, which resulted in a co-authored book Cosmopolitan Lives on the Cusp of Empire (Palgrave,
2016) and a successful application by Jane Haggis (Flinders) to the Australian Research Council for
a Discovery Project Grant, leading to a larger collaborative research project with Midgley as Partner
Investigator working alongside Haggis, Margaret Allen (Adelaide) and Fiona Paisley (Griffith). An
interdisciplinary project symposium on Cosmpolitics: Past and Present, involving leading historians
and sociologists from Britain, Australia, the USA and India, was hosted by Midgley at SHU in
December 2017, and project participants organised a series of panels at conferences in China,
Vancouver and Sydney. Outcomes include Midgley’s article ‘Cosmotopia delineated’ in Itinerario
(output 2206) plus a special issue of the Journal of Colonialism and Colonial History, forthcoming in
2021, to which Twells is also contributing.

Women, gender and sexuality
Stibbe’s collaboration with Ingrid Sharp (Leeds), as joint leaders of an international network
exploring women’s movements and activists during and after WW1, forms a core part of our
contribution to the research base on ‘women, gender and sexuality’. Its outcomes in the period
2014-20 include a special issue of Women’s History Review (2017) and an edited volume of essays
with Bloomsbury (2018). Development of a further co-edited volume on socialist women and war,
1914-23 (forthcoming with Bloomsbury) was enhanced by the involvement of Kathleen Canning
(Rice University, Texas), Visiting Professor in the Department of Humanities in June 2019, at an
international workshop hosted by Stibbe at SHU. In 2018 Stibbe (with Sharp) contributed an article
in German to the journal of the Kassel-based Archive of the German Women’s Movement, marking
the centenary of the November 1918 revolution.

Labour, work and social movements
Robertson's collaboration with the Bishopgate Institute, London and the Working-Class Movement
Library, Salford, which was supported by the AHRC, deepened our understanding of the role of
women in the workplace in twentieth-century Britain. Through her publications, she enhanced the
knowledge base and through exhibitions and online programming had important impacts beyond the
academy, as the next section on public engagement and impact explains.

Business and finance
Petersson’s co-organisation with Nicholas White (Liverpool John Moores) of a workshop in 2016 led
to the formation of an international research network advancing the ‘business and finance’ strand of
our research. The network explored the labour and business history of international shipping and
involved scholars from Britain, Denmark, Greece and Norway. It produced conference panels at the
European Business History Association’s 2017 and 2018 congresses, the hosting of the
Association’s annual congress at SHU in July 2019, and two edited collections, one with Campus
Verlag (2014) and the other with Palgrave (2019).

Public engagement and impact

Our public engagement and impact-related activities are informed by the University’s mission to
‘transform lives’ (see Institutional Environment Statement) and by the ambition to apply the
knowledge produced by our world-leading research to generate wider economic, social and cultural
betterment. We have selected three key projects to describe in detail. They were undertaken
alongside a wide range of public engagement activities by the Unit’s members and are additional to
those which form the focus of our two impact case studies.

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

World War 1 and its legacies
Colleagues drew on their diverse research into political, military, economic, social and cultural
aspects of WW1, collaborating with staff across the Humanities to organise a series of ten public
lectures on ‘the First World War and its Legacies’. We also engaged with a broader range of the
local public through a lecture series on WWI at the Weston Park Museum over 2014-15 (six
lunchtime sessions, average attendance of fifty), and in April 2015 a day conference on
‘Commemorating WW1 in South Yorkshire’, organised by Twells at Kelham Island Industrial
Museum. The latter event showcased research undertaken by SHU undergraduates, postgraduates
and academics and by local public and community historians. Stibbe wrote an online piece for The
Conversation on German commemorations of the WW1 centenary (3,198 readers by 31 December
2020), and a piece in German for the museum guide accompanying the main WW1 centenary
exhibition in Austria (Jubel und Elend: Leben mit dem Großen Krieg, 1914-1918, Schloss
Schallaburg, 2014). Finally, we hosted two of our own WW1 study days at SHU. The first, in June
2016, was organised by Stibbe and sponsored by the Gateways to the First World War public
engagement centre. The second, multi-disciplinary, event in January 2017, was organised by
Robertson on the theme of ‘Women’s work: women’s employment during the First World War and
Interwar Years’ and was co-funded by the AHRC and SHU History QR funds.

Central to our impact in this area were Stibbe’s activities underpinned by his research into civilian
internment in WW1 as a global issue, which ‘wrested the internment phenomenon from oblivion'
(Director, Zitadelle Museum, Spandau). Aside from his engagement with schools (see impact
strategy in section 1 above), Stibbe advised, and helped bring to fruition, pioneering cross-border
youth projects in Wakefield and Berlin; and made invited contributions to a permanent exhibition
(3,500 visitors to the Isle of Man); two temporary exhibitions (13,000 visitors to Spandau) and a
travelling exhibition (over 20,000 visitors worldwide, including at venues in Salt Lake City, Utah;
Oldcastle, Republic of Ireland; Newcastle, UK; Saskatoon, Canada; Pietermaritzburg, South Africa;
and Barbados, Caribbean). He also delivered public lectures on internment at Douglas, Isle of Man
(September 2014); Hawick (on three occasions 2015-20); Regensburg, Bavaria (January 2018);
Canterbury, Kent (March 2018); and Knockaloe, Isle of Man (March 2019), reaching a total of over
300 people. He sits on the international advisory board of the Internment Research Centre at
Hawick. He was interviewed by the German SWR2 radio station for a programme broadcast on 22
November 2019 with 35,000 listeners. He recorded a podcast on his new monograph for the
Western Front Association (1,310 hits by 31 December 2020); and wrote a blog on internment,
isolation and mental health for the National Library of Medicine, Bethesda, Maryland (2,683 views by
31 December 2020).

The rise of the modern workplace in Britain, 1919-1979
Robertson’s AHRC Leadership Fellowship on ‘The Clerical Profession and the Administrative
Revolution: The Rise of the Modern Workplace in Britain 1919-1979’ involved working closely with
two non-academic partner institutions, the Working-Class Movement Library, Salford and the
Bishopsgate Institute, London, over 2015-17. It produced a free, eleven-panel public exhibition
entitled ‘Office Life in Twentieth Century London’ at the Bishopgate Institute, which was then
digitised for the Institute's website (1,000 hits per month). It attracted an international audience,
being viewed in the UK, Italy, Australia, the US, Spain, Ireland, Belgium, Germany, France and
Hong Kong. The exhibition was accompanied by public lectures and a community learning workshop
on ‘Office Girls and City Gents’ (January 2017), which enabled the public to handle and work with
historical materials in creative ways, and had an online legacy in the form of a Pinterest page.
Robertson also collaborated with the Working-Class Movement Library, interpreting and utilising
their internationally renowned collections on clerical trade unions for a public lecture as part of their
‘Invisible Histories’ series in October 2016. This connected present-day/former office workers with
the historical campaigns of their forbears and raised awareness of trade union activism among non-
manual workers. Robertson also contributed to the WCML’s ‘Object of the Month’ (March 2016)
series (average 300-450 hits per month) and wrote an article on her research for the WCML’s
magazine, Shelf Life (Autumn 2017), (digitised on the WCML’s website, plus hard copy circulation of
2,000 per quarter).


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
English rural history
Verdon’s investigations of rural working-class lives, agricultural labour and trade unionism led to her
participation as expert discussant in eight episodes of several major TV series which gained a mass
viewing audience. The programmes highlighted collective and individual family histories as well as
the significance of local stories within a national framework. They included single episodes of
BBC2’s Great British Railway Journeys (January 2015, 1.68 million viewers) and Cake Bakers and
Trouble Makers (July 2015, 1.44 million viewers); two episodes of Channel 4’s The Restoration Man
(February 2014 and January 2016, 2 million and 1.9 million viewers); and an episode of BBC1’s
Who Do You Think You Are? (August 2018, 3.9 million viewers). Closer to home, Verdon worked
with impact fellow Gertie Whitfield to deliver sessions on ‘Food and Farming in the First World War’
to two local primary schools (fifty children reached).

Contributions to the discipline and indicators of esteem

In line with the outward-looking, world-shaping research strategy of SHU as a whole, and the Unit’s
desire to foster the vitality and sustainability of the discipline at national and international level, we
have – in addition to our excellent publications and public engagement activities – contributed our
time and professional expertise in a number of ways. Across the Unit we secured eight overseas
fellowships; were invited to give ten conference keynotes and four seminar papers at overseas HEIs;
acted as editors-in-chief, associate editors or editorial board members of nine international journals;
held executive positions in seven learned societies; peer-reviewed book manuscripts for eleven
leading academic publishers and submissions to fifty-seven international journals; externally
examined twenty-two PhDs, fifteen at UK HEIs and seven at overseas institutions; and peer-
reviewed bids to four UK-based research councils and five overseas ones.

We are particularly proud of the international fellowships awarded to eight members of the Unit, all at
different stages of their careers, and representing a good cross-section of the different strands of our
research. The contributions we made to the discipline by way of reviewing book manuscripts and
journal article submissions, and external examining of PhDs in the UK and abroad, were again
undertaken by members of the Unit at every career level and in all targeted areas of our research.
Perhaps not surprisingly, invited keynotes, lectures and seminars, and positions in learned societies,
were more heavily weighted towards senior staff. However, experience gained is regularly
transmitted to ECRs and mid-career colleagues through formal and informal mentoring processes.




                                                                                               Page 14
