Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution:                Queen's University Belfast


 Unit of Assessment:         14

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a. Overview
 Geography at Queen's (QUB) is a well-established and influential unit. Though comparatively
 small (19.5 FTE), Queen’s geographers have shaped key research agendas across the
 discipline spanning the human and physical worlds, both past and present. In Human
 Geography (HG) we have led debates on the role of space and place in the global geographies
 of knowledge, politics, power and religion, and provided critical understanding of ethnic and
 residential population change. In Physical Geography (PG) our work is providing new insights
 into climate change impacts on peatlands, soil erosion and Quaternary ice-ocean interactions,
 while our innovative work in geoforensics is having wide application in criminal investigations. In
 GI Science we apply novel analytical approaches to interrogate health and the environment and
 longitudinal population trends, amongst other themes. We are an outward-facing unit with a
 strong tradition of forging transnational, regional and local connections with external partners,
 giving geographical research at Queen's a critical role in contemporary debates about social and
 environmental futures.
 The vitality of our research environment is illustrated by our achievements since REF 2014,
 which include: (i) a large body of work in leading geography and geoscience journals and
 influential book contributions; (ii) our success in increasing our research income from £5.25m to
 £7.14m and our PhD completions from 14 to 33 between REF 2014 and REF 2021; (iii) strategic
 investment in a new Centre for GI Science and Geomatics; (iii) the award of a NERC-funded
 DTP (QUADRAT) co-led by staff in the Unit which is delivering leading PGR training; and (iv)
 major cross-disciplinary projects and partnerships which have strengthened impact and public
 engagement, including an AHRC-funded national public engagement centre.
 b. Unit Context and Structure
 Geography is one of five disciplinary units in QUB School of Natural and Built Environment
 (SNBE), established following the merger of the former School of Geography, Archaeology and
 Palaeoecology (SGAP) and the School of Planning, Architecture and Civil Engineering (SPACE)




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in August 2016 (Fig. 1). In REF 2014 SGAP was returned as a single unit to UoA17. In July
 2020 QUB Geography comprised 18.5 FTE permanent academic staff, (including one
 permanent research fellow and a lecturer who has taken up a NERC fellowship), and one fixed
 term lecturer. Research in the Unit is promoted through two large cross-disciplinary SNBE
 research clusters, both led by Geographers; Culture and Society (C&S) (Lilley) and
 Environmental Change and Resilience (EC&R) (McKinley) (Fig. 1). These have enabled us
 promote our disciplinary strengths, whilst nurturing productive new research directions.
 Geography also hosts three QUB research centres, the Centre for Data Digitisation and
 Analysis (CDDA), which works with public bodies to create digital content and infrastructures,
 the QUB Centre of Canadian Studies (CCS), which connects interdisciplinary research in
 Canada to international policy agendas, and the recently formed Centre for GIS and
 Geomatics (CGISG), which reflects a strategic commitment to expanding GI Science research
 and impact in QUB. Strong links exist with the QUB Centre for Climate, the Environment and
 Chronology (14CHRONO), the School of Biological Sciences, and members of our HG group
 are active within the University's Senator George J. Mitchell Institute for Global Peace,
 Security and Justice (SGMI).

 c. Research Strategy: 2014-2020
 Our research strategy has evolved since 2016 with the creation of the School of Natural and
 Built Environment and as a result of new strategic investments. Our research foci in Geography
 are informed by key questions within and between our School disciplines, by research council
 funding priorities and opportunities, and University-level strategic themes.
 The key aims of our REF 2014 research strategy for Geography were to:
    1. lead and contribute measurably to critical and scientific enquiry in human and physical
       geography;
    2. develop and disseminate new techniques of data analysis, visualisation and interpretation;
    3. inspire and facilitate new researchers through a proactive strategy of attracting and
       supporting PGR students and embedding early career researchers in our grant-funded
       projects;
    4. develop the impact and outreach of our research;
 In addition to the above, since 2016 our priorities have included:
    5. building on our strengths in GI science and the newly formed CGISG, to address multi-
       disciplinary themes in HG and PG;
    6. further develop interdisciplinary research, harnessing opportunities across SNBE, QUB
       and beyond.
 In all areas of activity, we have delivered against our priority aims [bold italics A1-6 below].
 Our strategy was implemented as follows:
  Contributions to intellectual enquiry and scholarship in Geography: [A1,2]
   In Historical-cultural geography a long-standing area of strength in QUB Geography, our
    publications have defined historical geographies of knowledge and knowledge-making
    practices. Major outputs have examined geographies of reading and speaking about science,
    especially Darwinism, explicated urban histories of scientific and cartographic enterprise, and
    explored inter-connected spaces of gender, empire and natural history. Conceptual
    innovation in this area includes the elucidation of ‘speech spaces', relations between science
    and civic and colonial geographies, and distinctive contributions to medieval studies. Novel
    applications of historical GIS have challenged understanding of mapping histories.[A2]
    Noteworthy also, are the scholarly contributions from our PhD students. For example, the
    monograph, 9 articles and 2 book chapters produced by our PhD students in historical and
    cultural geography have added substantially to understanding the places and spaces of
    scientific knowledge.
   In Political geography our work has made a compelling contribution to critical geopolitics,
     post-colonialism and the securitization of borders. Key outputs have addressed the literary

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       geopolitics of twentieth-century space exploration, apocalyptic and conspiratorial geo-political
       imaginaries, the fundamental reconfiguration of social ‘abnormality’ through border surveillance
       technology, and an ‘indigenous studies’ approach to post-colonial identity. This work has probed
       and expanded a lexicon of theoretical categories including bio-power, gender, identities,
       imaginaries, imperialism, (in)security, nationalism, performances, post-colonialism, technology
       and more. Other key outputs offer a cogent analysis of the geographies of religion, including
       rigorous empirical research on Evangelical apocalypticism, Zionism, Christian millennialism and
       conspiracism, amongst other themes.
      In Population geography, our research excellence is demonstrated via leading and novel
       analyses of socio-spatial inequalities and longitudinal population trends. These have had
       international scholarly impact, generating robust and significant new empirical, theoretical
       and methodological contributions to the literatures on ethnic diversity and segregation, the
       geographies of long-term deprivation, population structure and change, and internal
       migration propensities. Our outputs reflect our reputation for the application of advanced
       spatial analysis of Census and other population data, at a range of scales [A2,5]; these have
       been influential in shaping academic debates and policy agendas (see Section 4c).
      In Physical geography we have continued to build on our established profile of expertise in
       the area of long-term environmental change from REF 2014, with the support of the
       14
         CHRONO Centre. Major outputs have analysed the response of European peatlands to
       recent climate change, the role of Holocene climate in modulating volcanic eruptions, and the
       interactions of global climate, polar ice sheets and palaeoceanographic processes around
       sensitive glaciated margins. Other contributions have developed new methodological tools
       and analytical approaches, including innovative geophysical approaches to examine the
       influence of subglacial lakes on ice dynamics, novel geoforensic and geostatistical
       approaches to interrogate soil geochemistry datasets and estuarine lithofacies, and the
       relationships between soil geochemistry and kidney disease [A2,5]. We have made a leading
       contribution to applied research with testate amoebae (e.g., as a new tool for tracking
       Arsenic pollution in lakes and in quantitative palaeohydrology [A2]).
      In total, our 20 (19.5 FTE) staff members published 250 journal articles, 10 edited books, 66
       book chapters, and two monographs, and delivered 468 conference presentations, seminars
       and research talks in 35 countries. Of our peer-reviewed journal articles, 188 (75%) were
       published in Q1/Q21 journals, including seven papers in Nature journals (-Geoscience;
       Climate Change; -Communications), and five in Transactions of the Institute of British
       Geographers.
      The recognition of our scholarly work is evidenced by distinguished honours and awards
       conferred upon our staff during the REF period, notably a CBE to Livingstone for his
       contributions to scholarship in Geography, History of Science and Intellectual History, and
       other prestigious RGS and Geological Society of London and RIA awards (see Section 4e).
     Research awards which enhanced PGR & ECRs: [A3]
        A significant increase in research income during the REF period (from £5.25m in 2014 to
        £7.14m in 2021), has enhanced vitality by supporting post-doctoral researchers and PhD
        students, advanced our disciplinary research agendas (see Section 3a), and our impact and
        interdisciplinary activity.
     Examples of projects which supported postdoctoral researchers include the 'Northern
       Ireland Longitudinal Study ' (NILS) (ESRC; Shuttleworth PI; >£2.2m), 'Mapping Lineages'
       (Leverhulme; Lloyd PI) and a Templeton Foundation award to Finnegan (each supporting 1
       PDRF). Through these and other awards, we supported 10 fixed-contract PDRFs in REF
       2021. We also significantly increased our PhD awards and our PGR community increased
       from 34 to 50 between REF 2014 and 2021 (see Section 2).
      Our success in delivering outstanding PGR training has been strengthened by the £5m
        QUADRAT NERC DTP award in 2018 (co-led by McKinley; £2.46m to QUB), which is run
        jointly with Aberdeen and QUB Biological Sciences and a broad network of collaborative
        partners. Our emphasis on Biodiversity, Earth Systems and Environmental Management


1
    Journal Citation Reports 2019
                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    research themes is enabling us to address significant environmental and societal challenges
    in line with the NERC remit. [A1,3,6]
  Maximising research impact and outreach: [A4]
   Our strategy was underpinned by the following objectives:
     - Targeting opportunities for impact via our research centres, QUB networks and major
        grants
     - Expanding links with external partners
     - Embedding an impact culture across the discipline
   The strategy was advanced as follows:
  A Geography impact lead (Ruffell) acts as a key link for connecting academic and non-
   academic partners by working closely with QUB Impact champions and co-ordinating impact
   training, seminars and workshops.
  A School Impacts Fund and cluster funds support projects with impact (e.g., Mullan's work
   assessing soil erosion risk with stakeholders in Belgium).
  Impact objectives and achievements are also embedded in our mentoring and appraisal
   processes. Events run with partners (e.g. Ulster Museum) have helped to generate
   awareness of outreach amongst our postgraduates.
  Our Research Centres are a major vector for achieving impact, enabling us to strengthen
   relationships especially with non-HEI partners and increase public awareness of our
   research:-
     - Through CGISG, for example, we are leading outreach in spatial science,
        geomatics/geodetics, geostatistical analysis, geo-programming and digital mapping.
        Notable hosted resources include Lloyd's ESRC-funded 'PopChange', a novel Britain-
        wide population data resource and analytical tools which allow researchers to explore
        neighbourhood changes [A1,2,5]. This and associated policy briefings have been used
        widely by local government (with >40 local authorities registered to use the resource),
        charities and academics.
     - Through CDDA, one of the leading Digital Humanities centres in the UK, we used e-
        resources and innovative digitisation, visualisation and web technologies in >30 projects,
        benefitting government, NGOs and community groups (e.g. NI Executive, National
        Museums of NI (NMNI)). [A2] Notable examples include GCRF projects in Assam, India,
        focusing on sustaining heritage at risk, and the 'Digitising Scotland' project (DSP), which
        is enabling online provision of Vital Registration Data forms for Scotland via National
        Records Scotland.
  Major awards which strengthened links with external partners include the ESRC-funded
   'NI Longitudinal Study', undertaken in partnership with NI Statistics and Research Agency
   (NISRA). The resulting co-produced resource embeds social science and public health
   research within NI labour market mobility frameworks (see Section 4).
  Strong cross-sector partnerships have also been forged through the QUB Heritage Hub
   (HH). Led by Geography, with scholars from QUB History, HH bridges cross-disciplinary
   expertise and capacity in heritage (built, cultural and natural) at QUB, developing heritage
   networks, projects and initiatives locally and globally, in line with QUB’s Engaged Research
   Action Plan. [A6]
  In total, our staff delivered 109 outreach or public engagement talks (from KESS talks at
   Stormont, to NI Science Festival talks), and were involved in the organisation of 78 outreach
   events (from a large public event to raise public awareness of research on Irish Peatlands
   involving >25 NGOs and government agencies (lead: Roe), and many events for the LL-PEC,
   amongst others). We published 52 journal articles with industry or non-HEI partners (e.g.
   public health; geological survey collaborators).
    Our impact case studies illustrate key aspects of our approach to impact and outreach:-
     - 'Innovative Aquatic Geoforensics' (Ruffell; McKinley) developed and applied new
       analytical approaches for forensic search in water, integrating GIS with GPR-based
       geophysics [A2], and building on our significant networks in geoforensics to achieve


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         impact. The work was undertaken with police and other agencies; beneficiaries included
         the National Crime Agency and the Home Office amongst others (see ICS-219632057).
     -   The AHRC-funded 'Living Legacies 1914-18 - Sharing contested heritage through
         digital and spatial humanities' (Lilley with Ell, Director CDDA) embedded digital and spatial
         geohumanities approaches in community coproduction during the Centenary of WW1 (2014-
         19), with a wide range of partners and beneficiaries. LL is profiled by the RGS-IBG as an
         exemplar case study (see ICS-219632062).
  Interdisciplinarity: [A6]
  Geography staff play a leading role directing our two cross-disciplinary research clusters
   (Fig. 1) which have led to significant new collaborations reaching beyond QUB:
    - In Culture & Society, examples of Geography-led projects include GCRF-supported
        projects framed around the UN's Sustainable Development Goals, including human-
        environment interactions in Bangladesh and the economic and cultural value of
        intangible and dissonant heritage in South Asia, connecting architects, planners,
        archaeologists and geographers.
    - In Environmental Change & Resilience, geographers have played a leading role in the
        ERC-funded FRAGSUS project with QUB archaeologists, which examined human-
        environment interactions and heritage conservation in Malta, with Ruffell leading project
        geophysics, and the EPSRC-GCRF 'VERTICES GeoEnergy' project (McKinley PI), which
        integrated geochemistry data in the development of versatile energy solutions with Civil
        Engineers (CE), Geological Survey NI (GSNI), UNESCO Centre for Global
        Geochemistry, Chinese Academy of Geological Science and other partners, resulting in
        a student workshop (15 Chinese UG students) and collaborative journal outputs.
  Our Centres further support our interdisciplinary research. CDDA supports diverse projects
   with Archaeology, History, Languages, Creative Arts; and CGISG with QUB Biology,
   Engineering, Computer Science, Archaeology and Public Health. The Centre for Canadian
   Studies connects multi-disciplinary research in Canada to international and policy agendas.
   The high-profile annual CCS Eaton Lecture attracts diverse academic and public audiences.
  In addition to the Heritage Hub, projects led by Finnegan (AHRC; Templeton Foundation)
   have partnered historical geographers with prominent researchers in history, history and
   philosophy of science and theology, generating several highly inter-disciplinary outputs.
  Geographers also played a major role in the GSNI-led €4.5m EU INTERREG IVA-funded
   'Tellus Border' ground-based and airborne data acquisition project (McKinley; Ruffell). Inter-
   disciplinary research stemming from Tellus on the links between health and the environment
   with CGISG [A5] has included the QUB Nephrology Research group, Belfast Health Trust
   and the UK Renal Registry.
  Our strong DTP links have enabled us to foster numerous cross-disciplinary PgR projects.
   In HG, projects funded by ESRC NINE and AHRC Northern Bridge DTPs have developed
   through collaborations with QUB Archaeology and History especially. In PG, the NERC
   QUADRAT-DTP reflects our ability to deliver interdisciplinary PGR training across SNBE
   disciplines with Biology.
  Our commitment to fostering interdisciplinarity is also evidenced by major hosted
   conferences where geographers play a leading role. The 2018 GeoEnv conference, for
   example, saw geographers interact with international scholars from mathematics and
   engineering; and the 2019 'Dignity and Respect' conference co-run with QUB Senator
   George Mitchell Institute, British Council and SGI-UK, with scholars from law, anthropology
   and environmental governance, amongst others.
 d. Future Research Strategy: 2021-2026
 To ensure the continued vitality of our research environment in the next REF period we will
 continue to pursue our key strategic objectives A1-6 as above, with additional priorities identified
 as follows:




                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   increase and diversify our funding base by targeting strategic calls which harness our
    disciplinary strengths and cross-disciplinary networks (e.g. in the heritage, conflict, socio-
    economic change, wetlands and climate change, and environment and health areas);
   to build capacity, enabling us to lead and contribute to world-leading cross-disciplinary
    research that addresses global challenges in our core research areas;
   further expand and sustain impactful co-produced research through strengthened
    partnerships, with integration of our research centres CDDA, CGISG, and 14Chrono.
 e. Open Research Environment
 We comply with the University's arrangements for Open Access, making outputs and data from
 grant-funded projects publicly available via QUB repositories. Between April 2016-Dec 2020 we
 achieved 89% compliance in uploading journals and conference outputs to the repository; an
 increase of 30% from 2014-16. We make our major datasets freely-available through our
 centres (e.g., weather data from our monitoring station, hosted by CGISG), or through national
 facilities such as the UK Data Service (e.g., PopChange resources), along with an array of
 public outputs including interactive mapping tools (e.g., HSC 'Dementia' project; Leverhulme
 'Mapping Lineages'), and policy briefings (e.g., PopChange). Our staff engage widely in public
 dissemination (see above) and national media engagement (e.g. The Conversation) and
 coproduced research is shared with government (e.g. NISRA) and NGOs.
 f. Research integrity and ethics
 We have a well-developed framework for ensuring that our research meets high ethical
 standards in line with the UK Concordat for Research Integrity. Grant proposals are assessed
 via a Faculty Ethics Committee, while School and Geography (Shuttleworth) Ethics leads
 oversee PGR and UG research related ethics. Major projects involving co-produced database
 resources follow professional codes of practice (e.g, NILS has approval from ORECNI). Catney
 has taken a lead role in developing a major new initiative supporting postdoctoral staff in the
 Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences (EPS), which includes research integrity and
 ethics. This is providing a model of best practice for other areas.

 2. People

 a. Staffing strategy and recruitment
 Our staffing strategy aims to recruit, motivate and retain high quality staff to implement our
 research priorities [A1-6]. Since the formation of SNBE in 2016, we have increased the
 geography academic staff contingent to re-energise research capacity in existing and new
 research areas, and capitalise on the interdisciplinary focus of the new School:
   Developing emerging research strengths: The strategic appointment of Lloyd and Catney
    in 2018 has strengthened our expertise in population geography and helped to develop the
    impact of CGISG in line with A5. Their influential work in ethnic and residential change,
    labour market mobility, and important policy and resource contributions make the QUB
    population geography group a leading international centre. Lecturer appointments have also
    added expertise in climate change and soil erosion modelling (Mullan) and in
    palaeoceanography and ice-ocean interactions (Newton), complimenting existing strengths in
    the environmental change research area. Since appointment, Newton has been awarded a
    NERC Industrial and Innovation Fellowship (IIF) and Flood has joined the PG staff on a fixed-
    term contract, adding expertise in coastal processes and geostatistics. Sturm's appointment
    in 2015 augmented existing strengths in cultural geography. A new permanent GI senior
    research scientist further strengthened CGISG.
   Developing interdisciplinary research capacity: The appointment of Lloyd and Swindles
    (both at Chair), who both address the environment via strongly interdisciplinary frames, have
    helped to forge cluster connections. Lloyd's research integrates strengths across the S&C
    and EC&R cluster groups Environment and Health, Spatial-temporal modelling, and the
    emerging area of GIScience and Cities [A5], whilst Swindles' work on peatland-climate
    interactions, a core focus of expertise in the EC&R cluster (with CE and archaeologists),


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    enhances our ability to tackle pressing issues in climate change and anthropogenic impacts
    on peatlands. [A1]
 In total, six permanent academic staff have joined the Unit since 2014; three in PG and three in
 HG. Overall, our permanent academic staff body increased by 2.5 FTE (from 16 to 18.5) during
 the REF period, the recent appointments partly balancing earlier retirements and two staff who
 left. Our current academic staff profile includes research-active staff at all career stages
 including 7 Professors (4 HG; 3 PG), 1 Reader (PG); 8 SL (6 HG; 2 PG); 3 L (1 HG; 2 PG) and 1
 permanent PDRF (Ell). We have supported a further 10 post-doctoral researchers during the
 REF period, including a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions Fellow (MSCA).
 Future Staffing Plans: To achieve our strategic goals over the next 5 years (Section 1d), we
 aim to increase our staff base in HG and PG, particularly in the geopolitics and climate change
 modelling/impacts areas, augmenting our existing strengths. Appointments at the lecturer level
 will help us to balance our demographic profile and allow succession planning, covering
 anticipated retirements in the next REF period.

 b. Staff Development and Career Progression
 We provide an intellectually stimulating and supportive research environment for our staff at all
 career-stages and recognise the primacy of staff development for promoting research:
   We are committed to supporting early-career researchers (including postdoctoral
    researchers) alongside established staff. Probationary and ECR lecturers are allocated a
    senior mentor to advise on career development, have full access to training courses (e.g.,
    PGCHET; ‘Supervising Research Students’). They also have an initially light teaching load
    and priority access to ring-fenced PhD (DfE) studentships.
   A streamlined appraisal process, introduced by QUB in 2019, supports staff development
    and career progression. During this REF period we have also prioritised support for mid-
    career staff by providing internal review of grant applications (see Section 3b) and
    encouraging staff to undertake leadership roles (e.g. Johnson, Lilley, Roe and McKinley
    were SNBE cluster directors). The success of our support strategy is evidenced by 10 staff
    promotions in the unit during the REF period.
   A Geography Work Load Model developed since the last REF guides managerial
    decisions on work balance. A rotating sabbatical policy further increases staff research
    time. Staff can request sabbatical leave at the rate of one semester per three years' work
    (or 1yr/6yr). During the REF period, 13 staff (6 female, 7 male) had sabbatical leave.
    Recent achievements during sabbaticals include development of successful international
    collaborations in India (Lilley, 'Surveying Empires' project; Kumar, DfE-GCRF awards) and
    the development of an MOU in China (McKinley) (see Section 3a).
   Since the last REF staff have played a leading role in setting up new mentoring initiatives
    in SNBE for post-doctoral researchers (Roe) and the development of a Faculty-led
    Mentoring Programme for contract researchers (Catney). These provide guidance, for
    example, with research writing, ethics, time-management and employability skills.
   To further support our post-doctoral researchers we have prioritised delivery of an
    informal peer-review system to support grant and lectureship applications. During the REF
    period four of our PDRFS (Wright, Doebler, Porter, Leidenhag) and two PGRs (Song, Flood)
    have successfully gone on to secure lectureships or other HEI posts.
   We supplement training offered through the University’s Learning and Development
    Programme with in-house training (e.g. R in biogeography; fossil chironomid analysis).
    Cluster fund awards (up to £1000/staff member) support external training, conference
    attendance, career development as well as active research.
   We adhere to the principles of the Researcher Development Concordat, as evidenced by
    our commitment to staff development, our recruitment strategies, recognition procedures,
    reflective review of staff progress, and our Equality and Diversity strategy (see below).
  .



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 c. Training and Supervision of PGR Students
 The Unit provides an excellent and supportive environment for PGR students, and all of our
 submitted staff are, or have been involved in supervising students during the REF period.
   Growth in numbers: The success of our strategy to expand our PGR research community
    though increased external funding [A3] is further evidenced by a significant increase in
    our PhD completions, which rose from 14 for geography FTE in REF 2014 to 33 PhDs
    (plus one MPhil) in REF 2021. Our total PhD students increased from 34 students to 50
    between the two REF periods. This rise occurred in spite of a large reduction in core
    studentship awards from NI Department of Employment and Learning (DEL) (pre-2017) and
    NI Department for Economy (DfE) (post-2017). Faculty re-structuring of taught Masters
    programmes has also impacted the pool of well-qualified students available to undertake
    PhDs.
   The NERC QUADRAT DTP further underlines our commitment to outstanding PGR training.
    This will bring 25 ring-fenced awards to the School between 2019-2023. The DTP also
    includes an accredited strategic management and leadership qualification, promoting career
    development. Other awards have come from the AHRC Northern Bridge and ESRC NINE
    DTPs, EPSRC, regional government agencies (e.g. DAERA), third-sector stakeholders (e.g.
    Historic Scotland) and private funding. We regularly review strategies to increase PGR
    recruitment and widen the funding base. For example, a newly approved (June 2020) MA in
    Geopolitics to be run jointly with QUB Politics and International Studies (commencing 2021)
    has been developed to expand the number of qualified students available for our PhD
    programmes.
   Training and management: PGR education and training are co-ordinated by a SNBE
     Postgraduate Research Co-ordinator, supported by a postgraduate research committee,
     which manages the selection of PhD projects and offers of core (DfE) awards. DTP awards
     are administered by separate committees involving staff from the Unit and partner centres.
     PhD students receive at least 30 days of training over their three or 3.5 years of study.
     Students avail of a wide range of generic courses in the QUB Graduate School. In-house
     training is also facilitated (e.g. geophysical survey techniques; R courses). Students may
     apply to clusters for additional funding (average: £500/student) for costs which cannot be
     covered from other sources (e.g. external training). Three fieldwork prizes are awarded
     annually to geography PGRs for innovative projects.
   Supervision and progression: Each student has at least two supervisors and supervision
     proceeds in line with the University's Postgraduate Code of Practice, supported by a
     dedicated progress committee. Students have regular supervisory meetings with agreed
     plans of actions and undergo a rigorous performance review after the first nine months.
     Supervisors receive training in the University's Research Student Lifecycle System, which
     provides supervisory teams with visibility of students' progress and reporting. Policies are in
     place to monitor completion rates, temporary withdrawals, and other support needs. During
     the Covid-19 pandemic all final year students were granted no-fee extensions, and all
     students supported via regular online meetings.
   Research environment and employability: Postgraduate students are an intrinsic part of
     our research community and are actively involved in cluster activities, the Geography
     seminar series and other School events, e.g. the School's annual Research Day, a lively
     event which promotes interdisciplinarity and fosters engagement. Geography PGRs also
     participate in a student-led seminar series co-run with Archaeology-Palaeoecology (Arc-Pal)
     students and Faculty events (e.g. poster competitions). Students are encouraged to engage
     in research-related outreach events and enhance career development via teaching support.
   Employer-focussed and skills development days led by PGRs and developed through our
     strong NI employer networks (e.g. linked to our 'Geography at Work' UG module) have
     further helped students to develop employability skills and secure employment outside
     academia. Examples of recent students who have benefitted include: Gerrow, Heritage



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Projects Officer, Ulster Architectural Heritage; Bell, ESRI, UK; Quail, Refugee resettlement
     manager Bryson Intercultural).
   PRES scores increased for the Unit between 2015-2019 showing increasing levels of
     PGR satisfaction, taking them above the sector average (86% versus 81%).
   Wider contribution of submitted staff to doctoral programmes and training:
     Geographers play a central role in strategic PGR development and management; McKinley
     co-led the successful QUADRAT DTP bid, Roe was QUADRAT co-lead in 2019-20 and
     Johnson and Dunnett are members of the Northern Bridge DTP panel.
 d. Promotion of Equality and Diversity
    We are committed to creating a research environment in which staff and students can reach
      their true potential and with equal opportunities for male and females. We have 14 (70%)
      male and 6 (30%) female academic staff in our REF 2021 return (with a small (4%) increase
      in females since REF 2014), and 3 international staff (from S. Asia, N. America and the
      Middle East). Our contract research staff (PDRAs plus RAs) for the REF period comprised
      8 males; 9 females and our PGR students 31 males; 19 females.
   School-wide policies offer support for flexible, family-friendly working arrangements, and
    follow QUB policies on maternity and adoption leave. Wherever possible, all meetings and
    seminars are scheduled for school-friendly times. All staff receive training for interview
    panel membership, with a focus on equality and diversity. Review of our staff equality and
    diversity policies is assured at School meetings as a fixed agenda item.
   Members of the Unit form an active part of the School's Athena SWAN Action Team
    (SAT), co-led by Warke, and previously led by Sturm and McKinley. Encouraging more
    female staff to train and apply for leadership roles has been one of the team's priorities.
    The appointment of three of the Unit's six female staff to DR roles, one to Head of
    Discipline, and DTP appointments during the REF period highlights success here. All six
    staff also achieved promotion success (3 to Chair; 3 to SL).
   The former School of GAP was awarded Athena SWAN Silver in 2010 and 2015. Whilst
    significant work has been undertaken to bind together the different Athena SWAN cultures
    within the significantly enlarged School, SNBE has yet to achieve SWAN accreditation,
    although a submission for SWAN Bronze (November 2020) is pending, and a clear set of
    SAT priorities have been formulated. Amongst these are measures to promote gender
    balance in future PGR and staff applications (e.g. through increased visibility of female staff
    role models). We are aware of the significance of EDI (Equality-Diversity-Inclusion) and
    have embedded EDI principles in grant applications. We are working with RGS and QUB to
    inform future practice in this area.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 a. Income
 Our commitment to increasing our research funding base has been successful; total
 income spend increased from £5.25m in REF 2014 (for Geography FTE in our submission to
 UoA17) to £7.14m (=£366K/FTE) in REF 2021. Our income from BEIS Research Councils,
 Royal Society and British Academy notably increased by a factor of six per FTE since REF
 2014, rising from £43K/FTE in REF 2014 (=UoA17 mean) to £250K/FTE in REF 2021, and
 forming 68% of our total. We added new income streams from the European Union (H2020) and
 UK Government and Health Authorities (e.g. PHA) and diversified our charity awards.
 Examples of awards that have been driven by our strategic priorities (A1-6; Section 1c) and
 which underline the reach of our research include:
   In the impacts area, the AHRC-funded 'Living Legacies 1914-18' Public Engagement
    Centre (Lilley, PI; £1.7m), shaped stakeholder practices around the 2014-19 Centenary of
    WW1; and the ESRC-funded NILS-RSU (Shuttleworth, PI, >£2.2m), is providing key social
    and economic data analyses to policy and research bodies in N. Ireland and beyond (see
    Section 4 for details). [A4]

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   Capitalising on our interdisciplinarity [A6], GCRF-funding has supported research on
    climate change and heritage in SE Asia, an international workshop for enhancing UK-South
    Asia networks, and a study of the spatial analysis of human development in India, amongst
    other projects. Two tripartite DfE US-Ireland awards have addressed the repurposing of wind
    turbine blades (Re-Wind McKinley PI) and future coastal flood risk in Belfast (UrbanARK;
    McKinley CI with SNBE collaborators). [A4,6]
   Grants from the Leverhulme Trust ('Mapping Lineages'; Lloyd, PI), and the British
    Academy ('Surveying Empires'; Lilley, PI) are challenging orthodoxies in the histories of
    maps and map-making. [A1]
   The NERC QUADRAT DTP (£2.4m to QUB), is delivering leading PGR training across three
    thematic NERC areas [A3,6]; Newton's NERC IIF is testing the efficacy of Carbon capture
    and storage in the North Sea region, and the NERC-funded 'InSAR for Geotechnical
    Infrastructure' project, has enabled stakeholders to remotely assess environmental risk and
    resilience in relation to geotechnical infrastructure (McKinley, with SNBE collaborators). [A4]
   The EU INTERREG-IVA Tellus Border project has had significant application for
    understanding the sustainable development of natural resources in the Irish border region;
    this and other Tellus resources have led to several projects (e.g. with the UK renal registry;
    Section 1c) and an international MOU with the Chinese Academy of Geological Sciences
    and other international partners, signed on behalf of the QUB EPS Faculty in 2017. [A4,5,6]
   Programmes of work funded by HSC R&D (Catney, PI) and Belfast City Council (BCC)
    (Lloyd, PI) are providing novel new perspectives on the geographies of age and ageing
    and deprivation in NI, and the incorporation of spatial data analysis into resource allocation.
    This ongoing research is already changing the ways in which spatial data are consumed
    and used to shape policy interventions within NI. Project outputs have generated significant
    interest among government agencies and charities aimed at supporting people with
    dementia and those in disadvantaged neighbourhoods. [A4,6]
   ESRC-funded research (Lloyd, PI is exploring spatial inequalities in South Africa, with an
    innovative exploration of the lived experience of inequalities through linked-in attitudinal
    data from surveys. Building on scholarly outputs and a web-resource, the work is creating a
    major tool for policy-makers aimed at guiding future schemes to reduce economic
    disparities between communities. [A2,4]
 b. Organisational infrastructure and support for research and impact
 Effective interplay between support structures at University, Faculty, School, and at the discipline
 level is crucial in the management of research and in the generation of research income.
 Measures undertaken by the Unit to support research include:
   The SNBE Research Committee (chair: Lilley), overseas research strategy development,
    strategic PGR matters (e.g. DTP applications) and communicates funding opportunities to
    staff.
   The Directors of Research lead cluster-based activities, and direct staff to University
    teams and resources for research support. Our staff benefitted from: QUB Research Grant
    Incentivisation Scheme; REF-support fund, Faculty Impact and Internationalisation funds,
    amongst other awards.
   We made effective use of international QUB-networking awards: e.g., Amir ran two major
    workshops and developed outputs on spatialising political thought with a QUB International
    Engagement award; Roe collaborated with biologists in USP, São Paulo, to develop a
    successful EU H2020-MSCA application (application of microfossil traits for water quality
    monitoring) with a QUB-FAPESP award.
   A SNBE Director of Internationalisation (Kumar) provides further support with
    international funding applications (e.g. GCRF), partnerships and MOU development.
   SNBE clusters fund primary research, including proof-of-concept work to promote
    applications, fieldwork and conference attendance.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   Our Work Load Allocation model guide decisions on research time allocation; staff are
    given increased time both to prepare applications and also manage active projects.
   Research expertise (e.g. new project development, grant applications and pathways to
    impact), is shared through workshops, School Research days and Geography Staff Away
    Days, and through peer-review of grant applications. A strategy to support mid-career staff
    applications has resulted in several successes.
   Staff liaise with Research and Enterprise (R&E) Directorate and a Faculty Research team
    to identify funding and impact opportunities, avail of tailored grant writing courses and
    develop applications. Peer review of research applications by R&E staff has significantly
    increased the success rate of our research applications.
   To diversify our engagement with the wider RCUK and UKRI research agendas, we
    are working with QUB Biological Sciences to develop a new interdisciplinary 'Sustainability
    and Environmental Solutions Centre'. This will provide a hub for strategic research
    planning and development in NI, bringing together national and international working
    groups, industry, government and NGOs, and a forum to review ideas for future UKRI
    funding.
 c. Operational infrastructure and facilities
 The School has dedicated laboratories to support PG research, with one full-time technician.
 The extensive facilities include 14CHRONO Centre, which provides support for 14C dating
 (palaeolimnological/peatlands research), with discounted AMS-dates for SNBE staff. In Spring
 2020, QUB committed to upgrading this facility with a new state-of-the-art £1.7m MiCADAS-
 AMS, which will be operational by mid-2021. Other resources include well-appointed
 microscopy and microfossil preparation laboratories, a mass spectrometer (C:N isotopes); X-ray
 diffractometer, Infra-Red spectroscopy, Atomic-Absorption Spectrophotometry, Laser particle-
 size analyser, Magnetic Susceptibilty (for sediment/geochemistry and water property analyses),
 coring and geophysical survey equipment, including ground-penetrating radar (for geoforensics
 and lake/peatlands research), laser scanners and equipment for airborne pollen surveys.
 CGISG has several data-servers and a large suite of dedicated PCs with commercial, open-
 source GIS and remote sensing software, and Small Unmanned Aerial Vehicles for geospatial
 data collection and web-enabled digital mapping. The facilities support a large array of projects,
 from cluster-based research to public engagement activities. CGISG also hosts a dedicated
 weather station with live data-streaming. We have recently expanded server resources to
 extend the impact of Lloyd and Catney's research in population geography, facilitating the
 hosting of databases (e.g. PopChange) and interactive models and supporting ongoing ESRC
 and Leverhulme projects.
 CDDA occupies a dedicated wing of the Geography (Elmwood) Building (Fig. 1), and has a
 large digitisation laboratory, a laboratory to showcase the centre's work (e.g., through public
 engagement events), and specialist machine rooms.
 The Elmwood building also has a large map library and a refurbished staff common room, which
 has been instrumental in supporting research meetings, student-led initiatives and is important
 space for informal discussions and society events.
 Collaborative access to infrastructure: SNBE share a Scanning Electron Microscope with
 QUB School of Mathematics and Physics, supporting our research with microfossils, volcanic
 ash and stone weathering research.
 d. Benefits in kind
 Land and Property Services (LPS) provide access to spatial data through the NI Mapping
 agreement (worth £250K/year in in kind support). In collaboration with LPS, a Continuously
 Operating Reference Station is installed in the Elmwood building. This provides the National
 Active GNSS Network (Island of Ireland) and serves the Greater Belfast Area. The high
 accuracy geodetic information is key for field research and research in Geomatics.




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Geography at Queen’s has a strong tradition of forging transnational, regional and local
 connections, collaborations, partnerships and engagements both within Northern Ireland and
 across the island of Ireland. In addition, QUB Geographers all, without exception, have
 extensive and far-reaching collaborations and networks that span the globe, and through
 research initiatives and collaborations have yielded deep and meaningful relationships world-
 wide, with research communities, policy makers, NGOs, third sector organisations, including
 community groups and grassroots bodies. Through both individual and collective enterprise, the
 geographical reach of QUB Geography since 2014 has been further consolidated, especially in
 South-East Asia, South Africa, China, North America and in Europe and the Middle East. Much
 of this collaborative engagement has involved cross-disciplinary research partnerships, built
 up particularly through continued strengths in transdisciplinary research areas, including
 cultural and natural heritage, geoforensics, GISCi, environmental change, palaeoecology,
 peatlands research, and social policy.
 a. Research collaborations
 In Human Geography, collaborations are particularly fostered through our expertise in digital
 and big data. CDDA and CGISG have played a pivotal role in creating new collaborative
 research projects and initiatives that have enabled external organisations to undertake major
 research using spatial big data. The NILS Support Unit (NILS-RSU) has strong external
 relationships with a number of ESRC investments – Administrative Data Research (ADR) NI and
 the other UK LS support units – and non-ESRC/UKRI partners – NISRA, Business Services
 Organisation, LPS, and the Public Health Agency (PHS).
 A second area of strong research collaboration is fostered through expertise on natural and
 cultural heritage. In India, Kumar has led a team of international collaborators in a GCRF
 project on climate change and hidden heritage in Majuli (Assam), with collaborators from Indira
 Gandhi National Centre for Arts India, (IGNCA), three Indian HEIs and NGOs in Assam. QUB
 Geography also played a key role in the delivery of the ERC-funded FRAGSUS project ‘Fragility
 and Sustainability in small island environments’ in Malta (led by QUB Arc-Pal), involving Ggantija
 Visitor Centre (World Heritage Site), and the National Museum of Archaeology Valletta.
 In other areas of PG, strong collaborations have developed through our expertise in wetlands
 palaeoscience and climate change reconstruction. Swindles led large teams of European
 researchers to examine climate change impacts on peatlands resulting in major multi-authored
 outputs (e.g. Nature Geoscience); Newton is a proponent on the successful International Ocean
 Discovery Program Proposal 909, a multi-million-pound project to drill a 40 Myr climate record
 from NW Greenland; with the support of CCS, Roe, an Adjunct Research Professor at Carleton
 University, Ottawa, has collaborated widely with Canadian HEI researchers and NGOs (e.g. lake
 associations) to develop biomonitoring approaches in lakes.
 b. Networks, partnerships and beneficiaries
 We are involved in multi-scalar partnerships with non-HEI organisations and bodies in NI, RoI
 and GB (e.g. RSPB, National Trust, NIEA, Public Health Agency, GSNI, LPS, Met Office,
 Armagh Observatory, An Garda Síochána, GSI), and internationally (e.g. Southern African
 Social Policy Research Institute; Columbian Forensic Laboratory), amongst many others. Our
 partnerships are strong and meaningful and include, since REF 2014, new and strengthening
 partnerships with NMNI, Department for Communities (NI) and NHLF, forged through particular
 projects, including Landscape Partnership Schemes in NI, (e.g. Mournes LPS), and via public
 engagement and engaged research initiatives such as CDDA’s WW1 Community Platform, an
 online resource for NHLF Centenary community digital data, funded through Living Legacies
 PEC. In partnership with the Met Office, we provide seasonal pollen counts that are used in
 national daily weather bulletins.
 Partnerships are also evidenced by our MOUs. In addition to a MOU organised by McKinley on
 behalf of EPS Faculty with the Chinese Academy of Geological Sciences (knowledge transfer,



                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UG/PGR exchange), CDDA has MOUs with the Polis Center, Indiana University, Purdue
 University Indianapolis, and the Electronic Cultural Atlas Initiative based at UC Berkeley.
 c. Wider contributions to research base, economy and society
 QUB Geography makes a significant contribution to culture, economy and society in the UK and
 beyond. This is evidenced especially by the key roles played by two major funded programmes
 housed in the Unit.
   First, on economic and social contributions, NILS is part of a wider programme of UK
    longitudinal studies. The strategic contribution of census and administrative LSs is their
    temporal span, which permits analyses of intra- and inter-generational demographic and
    social change, their facility in collecting data on household and family relationships, and the
    breadth of consistent socio-demographic profile information that they can hold. NILS is an
    integral part of N. Ireland's data infrastructure, and is important in the delivery of Public
    Housing Association strategies to facilitate and maximise the use of health and other data
    routinely collected by the public sector for the benefit of regional service users and the
    public. It has helped to ensure successful delivery of the current R&D Strategy by HSC
    R&D Division on behalf of the Department of Health.
   Second, public engagement and outreach delivered through the Living Legacies PEC
    has contributed to a programme of cross-community cohesion during the Decade of
    Centenaries in NI. This has been achieved through grassroots engagement with hard-to-
    reach communities in NI, including ex-offenders’ support groups, women's groups, and
    diverse community networks (e.g. NW Migrant’s Forum), groups from deprived areas (e.g.
    Shankill Area Social History group), and through partnership with HEIs and non-HEIs,
    including Public Record Office of NI, amongst many others. The results of these
    community-based engaged research programmes led by LL were published by the NI
    Community Relations Council in 2018 (see ICS-219632062).
   Third, on public and social policy, research by Catney on ethnic residential segregation
     informed the 2016 Casey Review into Opportunity and Integration, a national review by
     Department for Communities and Local Government (now MHCLG). The research provided
     evidence to the review team and was used to inform policy interventions for local
     communities. Also, Department for Work and Pensions, used Catney’s research on ethnic
     inequalities in employment in 2017 to inform their response to the Prime Minister's 2017
     pledge to increase ethnic minority participation in labour markets, as well as the
     Government's Race Disparity Audit and the McGregor-Smith Review of Race in the
     Workplace, 2017.
 End-user collaboration is also fundamental in our research in Physical Geography, where we
 also provide the academic evidence-base to inform policy and practice and co-create
 projects with stakeholders to ensure research is of wider value beyond academia.
   For example, in geoforensics, Ruffell's significant contributions to developing search
    methodologies have been widely employed in humanitarian search casework by rescue and
    law enforcement agencies, including the Department of Science & Technology, UK Home
    Office/MI5. Inputs from beneficiaries (e.g. National Crime Agency) have enabled search
    protocols to be refined, permitting enhanced decision making (see ICS-219632057).
   Swindles' research on ash particle size and dispersal patterns of Icelandic volcanic
    tephras derived from European peatlands has been used by the aviation industry (including
    NASA's Vehicle Integrated Propulsion Research group and jet engine manufacturer Rolls
    Royce) to model ash-cloud conditions and better understand the threat to aviation safety
    from volcanic eruptions. This work is being submitted as an ICS for REF2021 by Leeds
    University, where Swindles was formerly employed.
 d. Contributions to sustainability of discipline
 Our staff are active in promoting geographical thinking and Geography as a discipline. In
 addition to our scholarly works (Section 1c), our contributions range from professional service
 roles that provide leadership and guide strategic developments, to outreach and PGR/PDRA



                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 training which seek to promote inter-generational renewal. Examples of our varied and
 significant contributions during the REF period include:
   Royal Geographical Society-Institute of British Geographers' (RGS-IBG) committee and
    strategy group involvement, including leadership roles (e.g., Lloyd, Chair, Quantitative
    Methods Research Group; Shuttleworth, Chair, Population Geography Research Group);
    our leading role in Northern Ireland RGS-IBG (including a hosted seminar series overseen
    by Dunnett); our participation in the 2015 RGS-led Review of UK Physical Geography; RGS
    accreditation for our UG degrees;
   our record of service on external policy and allied disciplinary committees: e.g., Catney
    serves on the ONS Ethnic Group Assurance Panel, informing policy feedback on ethnicity
    statistics and census output use by policy-makers; McKinley: President, International
    Association of Mathematical Geosciences and IUGS Executive member; Roe: QRA
    Honorary Secretary; Warke: Director, Ulster Architectural Heritage Society; Lilley: Chair,
    British Historic Towns Atlas. Our staff served on 7 Royal Irish Academy committees,
    including the Geosciences & Geographical Sciences and Climate Change & Environmental
    Sciences committees;
   our strategic investments to RCUK and other funding bodies. Eight staff have served
    on major grant review panels, including ESRC, AHRC and NERC Peer Review Colleges,
    NERC Radiocarbon Facility Steering Committee, NERC Global Challenge Fund Panel, and
    the Carnegie Fund Panel, amongst others;
   our commitment to developing capacity and ideas in the discipline and beyond though
    our QUB Centres and research and engagement centres (NIL-RSU and LL);
   our service through major editing roles; e.g. Ell is Founding Editor of the International
    Journal of Humanities and Arts Computing; Lloyd, Associate Editor, Journal of the Royal
    Statistical Society. Our staff served on 15 journal editorial boards (including Scientific
    Reports; Population, Space & Place) and edited 4 major monograph series;
   our conference organisational activities; including Irish Geographers' Conference 2015
    (with GSI); GeoENV 2018; European Forensics, 2018; 9th International Symposium on
    Testate Amoebae 2018 (ISTA9), amongst others. In total we organised >40 conferences
    and workshops and convened 33 conference sessions;
   our Geography seminar programmes, which lie at the heart of scholarship in Geography,
    ranging from high-profile public lectures (e.g. CCS annual Eaton Lecture), RGS-IBG NI
    lectures, Geography and cluster seminars, 'reading groups' to 'lunch & learn' seminars run
    by ECRs;
   over 35 international visitors and formal visiting scholars (>3 week visits) (e.g. John
    Agnew, Geography UCLA; Les Cwynar, University of New Brunswick) who have inspired
    staff and PGR researchers and extended the reach of geographical research at QUB;
   our media activities, including contributions to The Conversation (4 staff) press coverage
    (e.g., Newton's 2018 Nature Geoscience paper) and radio and TV appearances (e.g.,
    McKinley, BBC's 'Great Irish Journeys');
   our broad array of geography-themed outreach events (see Section 1c); Geography
    Employer Panel events; lectures for schools (5/year);
   our textbook contributions, which are influencing UG/PG Geography teaching e.g. Lloyd's
    co-authored 'Principles of Geographical Information Systems' (OUP);
   the use of our research in the A-Level Geography Curriculum, e.g. Catney's work on
    ethnic diversity and segregation is detailed extensively in the Edexcel A-Level textbook.
 e. Indicators of wider influence
 The wider reach and influence of QUB Geography are further evidenced by numerous prizes,
 prestigious fellowships and awards conferred on staff during the REF period. In addition to the
 award of CBE to Livingstone, Johnson was elected as a MRIA for her contributions to historical
 geography. We also received major RGS awards (Lilley: Cuthbert Peek award; Catney: Gill
 Memorial award); Geological Society of London awards (Ruffell: William Smith Medal;
 Newton: Wollaston Fund); and distinguished fellowships (e.g., Roe: Ireland-Canada
 Foundation's James Flaherty Professorship 2018). We delivered 3 named lectures (e.g.,

                                                                                         Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Livingstone: Dudleian Lecture, Harvard University, 2015); 27 plenary talks and keynotes (e.g.,
 Lilley: Medieval Congress, Leeds 2015) and 79 invited conference/workshop contributions. 'The
 Wiley-Blackwell Companion to Cultural Geography' edited by Johnson et al. was a Choice
 'Outstanding Academic Title' in 2014. A festschrift volume (John Hopkins University Press) was
 published in 2020 to celebrate the work of David Livingstone, with contributions from
 internationally recognised geographers.




                                                                                         Page 15
