Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Brunel University London

 Unit of Assessment: 11 – Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

i. Research structure & context, achievements in the Past REF Period

Brunel University London is a multidisciplinary research-intensive technology institution. It integrates
academic rigour with the needs of governments, industry and the not-for-profit sector to deliver
creative solutions to global challenges. It also brings economic, social and cultural benefit to a wide
range of end users through an organisational culture of research excellence and innovation (Brunel
Strategic Research Plan 2013-17; Brunel Vision 2030). The research strategy of the Department of
Computer Science is aligned with this and produces significant world-class impactful Computer
Science research that is both rigorous and applied within a vital, sustainable and supportive
environment.     Our research strategy can be found at https://www.brunel.ac.uk/computer-
science/research-and-phd-programmes.

In 2014 we submitted to UoA 11 for the first time, achieving 63% 3*/4* research output, 90% 3*/4*
environment and 50% 3*/4* impact. All our eligible staff are research active (31 FTE 2014 to 38 FTE
2020). Our ongoing performance demonstrates increasing strengths and investment around our two
core, complementary themes: Intelligent Data Analysis and Software and Systems. Both are mature,
groups that have existed for over a decade and are the backbone of our research strategy (all staff
are members of either group). According to the NTU Performance Ranking of Scientific Papers for
World Universities, we are 3rd in the UK overall in 2020 (one of only six UK Universities) and, for
three years in succession, 1st in the UK for H-index and Highly Cited Papers (2018-2020).

The Intelligent Data Analysis (IDA) group meets the challenges of analysing, visualising and
integrating a variety of high-dimensional, fast evolving, real-world noisy data by making many world-
leading contributions to Artificial Intelligence and by developing innovative intelligent data analysis
methods and algorithms that have found successful applications in a range of societal and industrial
areas, including biology, business, computing, engineering, networks and healthcare. The group has
made major advances in High-Performance Computing (HPC) architectures and Digital
Infrastructures in both developed/developing countries and has had significant impact in industry.
Feedback from REF 2014 noted that our contributions to Artificial Intelligence research were
particularly strong. Indeed, we have published more Highly Cited Papers in Artificial Intelligence
than any other university in the UK over the past 11 years (WoS). We are also 1st in the UK for H-
Index in Discrete-event Simulation (Microsoft Academic). Members: Professors (4): Z. Wang, Liu,
Taylor, Gilbert; Readers (2): Li, Tucker; Senior Lecturers (6): Swift; Grosan, Pandini, F. Wang,
Groen, Cribbin; Lecturers (4): Anagnostou; Payne, Sassoon, Mashan; Independent researchers (3):
Arabnejad, Sams, Zou. The Software and Systems (SAS) group (also known as the Brunel
Software Engineering Lab) continues major themes in software engineering and human-centred
computing. Research ranges from novel software engineering techniques aimed at eliminating
costly “bad code” in large-scale codebases, through investigating cutting-edge distributed enterprise
systems architectures, to advancing human-computer interaction with novel digital technologies and
innovative sensorial interaction. Industrial partnerships play a key role and SAS continues to
influence the sector through effective knowledge transfer. Members: Professors (7): Ghinea,
Macredie, Shepperd, Counsell, Hone, Perry, Louvieris; Readers (2): Bell, Serrano-Rico; Senior
Lecturers (5): Ali, Blackman, McGrath, Money, Sengul; Lecturers (6): Aburumman, Arzoky,
Destefanis, Koulouri, Neykova, Lauria.

Notable achievements beyond significant research collaborations (Section 4). Professor Z.
Wang became an elected member of Academia Europaea in 2020 and has made fundamental
contributions to stochastic complex networks with incomplete information (output includes 40 IEEE
Transaction papers cited more than 8,000 times (WoS)) and novel techniques such as the new state
estimation H-infinity (used by many authors; around 20 instances in top journals). Cited over 24,000
times in this REF period (Google Scholar), he received the IET Control Theory & Applications

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Premium Award in 2018 and IEEE A. Sage Best Transactions Paper Award in 2020. Professor Liu
has advanced IDA algorithms using a combination of techniques from Artificial Intelligence,
engineering and statistics and has been consistently recognised as a Highly Cited Researcher for
publishing papers among the top 1% most-cited for their subject field/year of publication (Thomas
Reuters/Clarivate Analytics, 2014-2020). He has the most cited paper in the Artificial Intelligence
journal since November 2015 and the most cited paper in ACM Transactions on Software
Engineering and Methodology since 2016 (WoS). Taylor, Anagnostou and Groen’s work on High-
Performance Computing (HPC) infrastructures and Simulation resulted in over GBP 13,000,000 of
increased turnover and savings for SMEs as well as guiding the development of African National
Research and Education Network services provided to over 300 Universities and 4 million students
annually. With Bell, their work enabled the rapid development of simulation tools to help two London-
based NHS Trusts to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic. Professor Shepperd developed
experimental methods to evaluate machine learners (yielded more than 20,000 experimental results
and has become the definitive result in the field of defect prediction). Ghinea invented the new area
of Mulsemedia (multiple sensorial media) and has received widespread recognition (e.g., ACM
Computing Reviews Notable Article in Computing).

The success of our research strategy is demonstrated by staff regularly publishing in top venues.
For example, our 38 FTE published over 650 distinct journal papers since 2014 (48% increase since
last REF). Of these approximately 50% were published in journals with impact factor over 4 (JCR).
This includes over 190 papers in IEEE and ACM Transactions (240% increase), with 26 colleagues
(140% increase) publishing one or more papers in top journals in areas such as Artificial Intelligence
(IEEE Transactions (Evolutionary Computation, Cybernetics, Fuzzy Systems, Neural Networks and
Learning Systems), Neural Networks, Swarm and Evolutionary Computation, Artificial Intelligence,
Pattern Recognition), Software Engineering (IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, ACM
Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Empirical Software Engineering),
Computational Systems (IEEE Transactions (Parallel and Distributed Systems, Multimedia), Future
Generation Computer Systems), Information Systems (Management Science, European Journal of
Operational Research), Theoretical Computer Science (Information Sciences, Information Fusion)
and domain specific areas (IEEE Transactions (Industrial Informatics, Medical Imaging), IEEE
Journal of Biomedical and Health Informatics). Roughly 80% of articles in our submission pool of 93
papers were published in Q1 Computer Science journals and 50% were published in journals in the
top 10% of their subcategory. Our staff have a mean H-index of 26 (up from 17) (Google Scholar);
mean i10-index of 60 (GS). CWTS Leiden rankings in terms of highly-cited publications: we are
ranked (globally/UK) 31st/4th (top 5%) and 14th/3rd (top 10%). CWTS recognises that many of our
collaborations are international and this is reflected in our publications (14th globally/1st UK for
internationally co-authored publications). THES World Ranking recognises that 95% of our
publications are co-authored internationally. These show the quality and reach of our work. We are
increasing our open access publishing (12th (UK) in our area for Gold open access). Overall, while
these metrics are not absolute, these do show that our research is highly influential in wide areas of
Computer Science.

Our Principal Investigators have been awarded over GBP 9,600,000 in grants in this REF period,
including over GBP 4,500,000 from UKRI, GBP 3,000,000 from the EU, GBP 1,100,000 from UK
central government/health authorities and GBP 400,000 from industry/public corporations. We have
graduated over 120 PhD students in this period with many having taken up senior positions in
industry or lectureships/postdoctoral positions at institutions such as Cambridge, Oxford, Imperial
and UCL. Our staff have high visibility and include editors of major journals, members of executive
committees of major organisations such as the ACM and eight members of the EPSRC College. In
addition, staff have given keynotes at, or have organised, many major international conferences (see
section 4 for summary).

ii. Future strategic aims over the next five years.

Our groups aim to address several adventurous challenges. IDA: advancement of Phase-wise and
Many Objective Optimisation in complex networks across lifecycles, especially in the context of
Industry 4.0; exploration of the relationship between Artificial Intelligence and Modelling & Simulation

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
in terms of addressing large-scale data-rich and data-sparce environments (e.g., in the current
Covid-19 Pandemic, migrations, etc.); and Artificial Intelligence explainability, especially the effect
Artificial Intelligence adoption has on our national policies. SAS: leveraging of advances made by
the IDA group to continue work in the analysis of large-scale software systems; reliability, security,
performance and quality of large-scale concurrent and distributed software (e.g., Industry 4.0,
microservice architectures, blockchains and future quantum computing systems); creation of even
stronger relationships with the software engineering industry and apply expertise to the analysis of
very large-scale problems (e.g., migration to microservice architecture and the reduction of technical
debt; difficult problems that will continue to plague the IT industry); and exploration of how our world-
leading expertise in rich multisensory experiences and interactions on mobile devices combined with
Internet of Things/sensor-based systems enabled by the new 5G infrastructure can enhance users’
Quality of Life by incorporating Artificial Intelligence techniques for hyper-personalisation. We will
use our relationships with user groups to identify long-term developments to which we can contribute
and we will continue to seek to ensure that our work has as strong and broad a public benefit as
possible. Our Athena Swan team, Industry Advisory Board, work-placement program, annual Made
in Brunel exhibitions, and involvement in industrial/user bodies all feed into our research strategy
and will help us to ensure that we engage with a wide range of user/industrial interests in the above
contexts. We will also continue to be focused around the two existing groups and our main
application domains of healthcare and bioinformatics. In this REF period, we have also made
significant advances in digital infrastructures in Africa and, again where possible, we will seek to
apply our scientific advances with our partners in several African countries through equitable
partnerships. Overall, we will aim increasingly to contextualize our research with respect to
sustainable and green computing.

iii. Support for interdisciplinary research

The University encourages interdisciplinary research at a strategic level through four Institutes, in
which we have wide participation. All staff are members of the Institute of Digital Futures. Nine staff
are members of the Institute of Environment, Health and Societies. Two are members of the Institute
of Energy Futures. These have facilitated new interdisciplinary collaborations in 5G and digital health
(e.g., mulsemedia, work in virtual rehabilitation (Aburumman, Grosan), new HPC applications
(Groen), digital Infrastructure development in Africa (Taylor/Anagnostou), synthetic biology (e.g.
drug design) (Pandini). Digital health is further supported by the Brunel Partners Academic Centre
for Health Sciences (BPACHS) which works with The Hillingdon Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust
and the Central and North West London NHS Foundation Trust (e.g., applying machine learning
techniques to A&E performance improvement and leading 12 members of the department to develop
evidence-based COVID-19 decision-making tools supporting local NHS Trusts in the current
pandemic).

iv. Research and impact strategy and achievements against them.

Our Head of Research (Taylor) and the Research Group heads (Tucker and Counsell) lead the
Department’s Research Strategy. Our Impact Strategy is led by our Impact Champion (Shepperd).
Both strategies are annually reviewed by the Department’s Management Board, in conjunction with
the Department’s Industry Advisory Board and Athena Swan team, and reported to the College’s
Vice Dean (Research). We maintain a strong portfolio of impactful research with mature international
collaborations, a balance of academic rigour and theoretical advancements and strong engagement
with many end-user groups (see section 4). In conjunction with our Athena Swan team, we monitor
the diversity and range of our end users. End users include Microsoft, Ford, Green Valley, Kew
Gardens, Moorfields Eye Hospital, Tongren Eye Hospital (China), Sellafield, Three, DEFRA, Ministry
of Defence, Qinetiq, several NHS Trusts, and several SMEs in digital technologies and
manufacturing. Indeed, most of our projects include industrial partners. We also engage through two
start-ups that came from our research in this REF period (HecoAnalytics and CloudSME UG). At the
beginning of this REF period, we made the decision to continue to support REF2014 impact cases
and to identify further candidates. This led to a pool of seven impact cases from which four have
been selected. For example, Counsell and Swift have worked with Green Valley to create novel
methods to reverse engineer software architectures from over 25 million lines of source code. Taylor

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
has led high-performance simulation work with Saker Solutions/Sellafield and Ford that has
developed a high performance simulation infrastructure (large scale models of nuclear waste
reprocessing and engine manufacturing respectively). Taylor and Anagnostou have led digital
infrastructure research in East and West Africa that has significantly enhanced digital education and
student experience in African universities (over 4 million end users annually) and the delivery of new
government digital policies in 11 African nations. Our research groups regularly review impact within
research projects and the Department regularly runs seminars in impact-related issues. This is also
one of the key elements of our mentoring program. We introduce early career researchers to
industrial and NGO partners through our established networks and Institutes and support them via
our University’s Research Services and Development Office (RSDO) (e.g., Destefanis working with
Hexxcell Ltd. to improve software testing, Anagnostou working with the Ghana Health Service to
develop approaches to evidence-based decision making, Groen working with UNESCO in refugee
studies, etc.). This makes possible agile responses to new research initiatives (e.g., Bell leading
around a third of the department to develop COVID-19 decision support tools for local NHS Trusts
in the pandemic). We also seek to support impact in Brunel’s research environment. For example,
within the context of the University’s GCRF and ODA impact strategy, Taylor founded Brunel’s Africa
Group which provides focus to the University’s work across that continent and supports research
and collaborations in equitable partnerships; the Department was also key to the development of the
Institute for Digital Futures and the Brunel Partners Academic Centre for Health Sciences
(BPACHS).

v. Progress towards and open research environment

We are progressing towards an open research environment through contributions to reproducibility
and Open Science in research, especially with respect to empirical studies. We disseminate these
across the Department and University. Taylor, in 2019 with colleagues from Southampton and
Loughborough, developed the Strengthening the Reporting of Empirical Simulation Studies
(STRESS) to standardise how empirical simulation studies are reported in different types of discrete
simulation (Monks, et al. (2019), Journal of Simulation, cited 34 times). Taylor is a member of the
ACM SIGSIM (Simulation and Modelling) Steering Committee and has led discussions on Open
Science – one output of which is the adoption of the ACM Reproducibility Initiative by the ACM
Transactions on Modeling and Simulation and the ACM SIGSIM Conference on Principles of
Advanced Discrete Simulation. Shepperd is a member of the working party for Empirical Software
Engineering and the Mining Software Repositories (MSR) conferences to identify protocols/results
at the pre-registration stage. As part of a wider initiative, Taylor and Anagnostou co-led the
development of FAIR (in the sense of Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Re-usable) Data
Infrastructures and Open Access Repositories in Africa to enable African researchers to make the
outputs of their work (articles, data, results, etc.) more visible. This is currently being adopted by the
West and Central Research and Education Network (WACREN) as part of the AfricaConnect3
project and has been adopted by the Ethiopian government (https://nadreweb.ethernet.edu.et/) as
their national Open Science policy. All our staff practice Open Science to some degree, with a
common baseline of green open access for all publications via the University’s publications database
BRAD, gold open access for publications where possible, and it is common practice for us to use
access repositories to share our data/software. Around one third of our staff have produced open
source software with total downloads of around 50K/year (with some being part of well-known
packages).

vi. Research Integrity

Brunel has adopted the Universities UK Concordat to support research integrity. The University’s
Research Integrity Code of Practice provides clear policies regarding research conduct overseen
by the Vice Provost (Research). Research Integrity is part of the University’s commitment to the
Research Councils’ UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (see
section 2 – People). We also follow equitable partnership guidelines from Research England to
ensure that our work with partners in developing countries is done on a fair/equal basis. Research
ethics is overseen by the University Research Ethics Committee (UREC) which provides a
framework for policies, processes and procedures to ensure that all research meets established

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
ethical standards. For Research Data Management, we follow the University’s policy (based on the
10 Principles of the Concordat for Open Research Data) and comply with all legal, ethical, funding
body and organisational requirements for the collection, review, publication, storage, preservation
and re-use of data (in line with the University’s Data Protection Policy). Institutionally we are
committed to free access to all our research outputs as part of our Code of Research Integrity
(green access supported by our University’s publications database (BRAD) and Institutional
Repository (BURA)). The University provides a full training programme with respect to the code as
well as having support staff from its Research Support and Development Office to provide advice
as required.

 2. People

i. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
Brunel received the EU HR Excellence in Research for its research support environment and its
alignment with the Researcher Development Concordat (first awarded in 2011, renewed every two
years – most recently 2019). The University’s Concordat Action Plan is at
https://www.brunel.ac.uk/about/documents/pdf/BUL-Concordat-Action-Plan-2017-19-FINAL.pdf.
The University’s Researcher Concordat Action Plan (RCAP) is managed by the Researcher
Concordat Implementation Group (RCIG); the Department’s Management Board follows
recommendations made by the group in line with each of the Concordat’s. In parallel, our Athena
Swan Self-Assessment Team was set-up in 2014 (currently led by Sengul; our Bronze award was
renewed in September 2020) to provide input to our staffing strategy.

Balancing/rewarding excellence in academic life is supported by the University’s Academic Life
Cycle (ALC) that focuses on mentoring and nurturing. It identifies clear promotion criteria across a
balanced portfolio of research, teaching and learning, and leadership. All staff have an annual
Professional Development Review (PDR) where feedback with respect to development and
promotion is given, annual goals are set, workloads are reviewed and staff development needs are
identified. Online unconscious bias training is available to all staff, and all research and academic
staff must complete the University’s compulsory Equality and Diversity (E&D) compliance training,
refreshed every three years.

Line-managers meet with new staff to welcome them to our Department and discuss with them their
responsibilities, including their teaching allocation. Line-managers are trained in effective induction,
and HR checklists are used to guide the process. Probation is set at two years; realistic goals are
regularly reviewed by the Head of Department and the Research Director (25% teaching load in year
1 and 50% in year 2 to support completion of the Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice
programme). New academics can also apply for a BRIEF (Brunel Research Initiative and Enterprise
Fund) award to jump-start their research. All new staff must attend University induction and
compliance training sessions (including E&D). Details of the University’s flexible working policy and
family-friendly policies are available on the HR intranet. However, staff focus groups have highlighted
that staff might not be aware of all their entitlements/Department policies and we are now providing
regular briefings. On-going induction programmes introduce research support (research services,
grant development, internal peer review of papers/grant proposals, a strong seminar programme,
etc.) We continue to improve our induction process/support for new staff and in 2020 we introduced
a new departmental mentoring scheme. We have two annual away days where all staff are given
time to brainstorm new research themes. There is a strong collegate culture in the department;
research groups meet regularly and hold vibrant seminar programme.

Each Researcher within our UoA also has a PDR (Principle 5) and new grant holders (PI and CI)
must attend PDR training for managers (including E&D). One-to-one coaching is provided by the
University for Research staff to explore personal development and career aspirations. Importantly,
during PDR discussions, if a Researcher expresses a desire to become a Lecturer, we recognize
that many academic appointments require excellence in research and also excellence in teaching
and therefore discuss opportunities with Researchers to develop teaching experience, obtain
relevant qualifications (supported by the Graduate School) and encourage them to apply for
Associate Lecturer (AL) positions (four Researchers have recently joined us as AL – two successfully

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
promoted to Lecturer). When new grants are received, in partnership with our Researchers, we also
attempt to identify continuity of employment by redeploying them to new projects (Principles 2, 3
and 4).

We have strategically recruited to our two research groups and will continue to do so. We are a
maturing department with many staff moving from the 40-49 to the 50-59 group during the REF
period – these staff contributed 47% of our research outputs. We have replaced all staff that have
moved on from us (all FT with no significant gender difference; 72% cited better career prospects as
their reason for leaving with the next most common reason being a career change (e.g., non-
academic position along with retirement)) and have added a further 7 FTE. These form part of the
balance of our staff in the 30-49 group (50%) – this group contributed 35% of our outputs. 31% of
our staff are women (29% of our outputs) – most are in the 30-49 group – and we aim to raise this
percentage.

We believe that we have created an atmosphere that is conducive to staff retention and promotion
with almost half the staff promoted in this period, primarily through a balance of research and
teaching excellence (three AL to Lecturer (L), seven to Senior Lecturer (SL) (Capiluppi, Money,
Cribbin, Groen, Grosan, Pandini, Wang), four to Reader (Bell, Li, Serrano, Tucker) and four to
Professor (Counsell, Hone, Perry, Taylor)). The AL posts, introduced in 2017-18, also give a career
path for our Researchers (40% women – three promoted to L (one woman)) and, as all three were
also PGRs, we see this as an encouraging staff development trend. Approximately 40% of AL, L and
SL are women. However, this falls with increasing seniority. We are addressing this by running
open discussion panels with women from the College who have been successful in their
promotions/increasing research outputs, tracking staff length-of-service/promotion readiness based
on PDRs and exploring gender issues in applying for promotion. All promotion/recruitment panel
members are trained in topics such as E&D, unconscious bias, etc. (Principle 1). Since August
2018, when recruiting we have attempted to shortlist women in proportion to applications received
(aspiration of 50/50) by being more flexible on research/teaching expertise without compromising
criteria stated in the job description.

Of the three academic PT staff, two are women, and all have chosen to go PT (flexible retirement).
We make effective use of flexible working with job-sharing for named leadership roles, which may
lead to more staff working FT. Our fixed-term contracts are mostly held by Researchers but also a
few AL (AL contracts are otherwise open-ended).

Brunel has invested in staff development with approximately GBP 150,000 supporting a range of
schemes. Research Leave: (6) – enabled, for example, advanced algorithms for optimisation (Liu),
software fault detection in large scale systems (Hierons), re-engineering the popular Chorus Twitter
data harvesting tool (Cribbin). Knowledge Transfer Leave: (6): enabled industrial collaborations, for
example, Grass Valley to investigate bad code elimination techniques in large code bases
(Counsell), high speed simulation experimentation Ford Powertrain Operations, Sellafield PLC and
Saker Solutions (Taylor). Further examples: Pandini (BRIEF award) – worked with Francis Crick
Institute/Lawrence Berkeley National Lab to prepare a successful Leverhulme Trust project; Grosan
(Athena Swan Research Award) explored machine learning methods for highly computational
problems from biology; Tucker (seminar series award) disseminated Artificial Intelligence techniques
that led to closer collaboration with UK government bodies (e.g., DEFRA); Perry (Tampere University
I3 partnership) disseminated his work in digital money. We have had over 30 visitors from a range
of countries including China, Germany, Italy, New Zealand, Norway, Mexico and Spain, and
members of our Department have held over 20 visiting positions.

We provide financial support with: GBP 55,000 pa ring-fenced research funding for research travel;
an ad hoc budget for small equipment for support research; GBP 32,000 pa for undergraduate
students to work on short research projects (launched in 2018; 16 students participated; 2 went on
to begin PhDs). All awards are made on the basis of successful research and impact; monitored by
the Athena Swan team. The College’s focus on interdisciplinary research is supported through
internal funding for interdisciplinary projects with the other Colleges (with competitive bids for funding
requests over GBP 10,000). Our approach to Research Integrity is described in section 1.

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Research and impact are recognised and rewarded as part of the annual PDR and the promotion
process of the Academic Life Cycle. The Head of Research discusses individual research plans with
staff to reflect on them and to identify collaborative opportunities derived from our extensive
networks. Our Impact Champion liaises with the Head of Research and the Research Group leads
to regularly review impact and potential impact cases. Success is rewarded by balancing research
and teaching workloads to give more time for research and impact, and to recognise working patterns
(e.g., attempting to load teaching into one term, supervision of only UG or PG projects, etc.). Impact
is supported in several ways. We regularly discuss impact in Research Group meetings and related
seminars are run annually in conjunction with the University and we attempt to introduce early career
researchers to industrial and NGO partners through our established networks. This is supported by
the University’s Research Services and Development Office which also identifies potential partners
from the many companies that annually approach the University with an interest in collaboration.
We make use of funded impact support (e.g., through the Innovation Voucher scheme – 8 staff (e.g.
Destefanis and Hexxcell Ltd. to improve software testing; Li and Veritas Advisory to investigate the
development of an AI-based system for automated Capital Allowance assessment, etc.)) and
Innovate UK grant applications (e.g. Taylor/Anagnostou (GBP 180,000) to work with Saker Solutions
and Hobsons Brewery; Bell/Serrano (GBP 80,000) to work with EnterpriSE Nation, etc.). University
internal impact accelerator funding is also available through different schemes (supported
Taylor/Anagnostou/Groen to develop digital evidence-based decision-making services in Ghana
Health Service and the Ethiopian government/UNHCR). Impact is also supported through the
University’s research environment (e.g., Brunel’s Africa Group, the Institutes and the Brunel Partners
Academic Centre for Health Sciences (BPACHS)).

ii. Research Students

Our PhD cohort is critical to the health of our research environment. We attract doctoral students
through our external profile, which has proved a successful approach that has been strengthened
by our web team’s maintenance of our research web pages to reflect the vital and exciting nature of
the Department. Brunel provides EPSRC Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTP) studentships to
support postgraduate research opportunities in our College and 19 have been awarded since the
scheme started in 2016. We also have had one NERC London DTP awarded to the Department.
Further, we support several research students awarded under the ESRC Grand Union DTP as
second supervisors.

Overall, we have graduated 124 research students in this period. Around 35% of our cohort (and
completions) are woman (above the national benchmark of 26%). Fewer women choose part-time
mode (26% compared to 38%) and we are investigating if there are any barriers to PT study. The
majority of our PGR students either come from other UK universities or overseas with an ethnicity
split of around 45% Asian, 30% White and 25% Black. Students are split on average around
35%/65% UK/international (roughly 20% EU, 15% African, 15% Middle East, 15% Asian), with a
recent shift towards UK students (50%) (reflecting impacts of BREXIT and international restrictions).
A focus group also reported that information about academic careers and PhD funding is not readily
available. We will do more to promote academic careers to both PGT and UG students via Q&A
sessions and dissemination of research funding information. Additional financial support for doctoral
researchers is available through the University’s hourly-paid academics (HPAs) (Hourly-Paid
Lecturers) and Graduate Teaching Assistants schemes (GTAs)). HPA roles have become more
gender-balanced over the years, achieving around a 40:60 ratio of women to men. GTA roles are
popular amongst PGR students, offering income and teaching experience.

Research students are supported by a supervision team consisting of two supervisors and a
Research Development Advisor (RDA). Research students regularly meet with their first supervisor,
with summaries of meetings being recorded on our eVision system. Having two supervisors provides
input from researchers with complementary expertise and allows senior staff to share their expertise
with junior colleagues. Students produce reports at 9/18 months – these are discussed in a formal
meeting (student, second supervisor, RDA and an independent academic). We encourage career
development and give opportunities for our research students to become GTAs, give lectures and to

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
formally take roles in research projects. All research students are encouraged to publish during their
studies (we support up to one EU and one non-EU conference for each student – students can also
bid for the Vice Chancellor’s travel prizes of GBP 500 (12 winners since 2014). There is an annual
away day for research students, which helps foster a community as well as contributing to research
training. Brunel recognises excellence and encourages interdisciplinary work through its annual
Research Students Poster Conference, with in the order of 150 students contributing posters each
year (approximately 10 of our students annually). Three of our research students won Brunel’s
Doctoral Research Prize in the period.

In 2017, led by Ali, we instigated a PhD Colloquium, encouraging students to make 10-minute
presentations and to get feedback from a panel of internal and external academics. The Department
is also involved in running PhD Colloquia at international conferences. For example, Sengul was
co-chair of the Student Research Competition at ACM SIGCOMM (2015) and Anagnostou has been
chair and committee member of the PhD Colloquium at the ACM/IEEE Winter Simulation Conference
(2016-2019). Bell chaired the ACM SIGSIM Travel Grant Committee that awards travel support to
around 20 students annually from across the world to attend high quality conferences. We also
encourage students to take part in international competitions in which they acquire new skills (e.g.,
supported by NASA volunteers, the Simulation Exploration Experience (www.exploresim.org) that
supports students in developing large-scale multinational simulations of a lunar settlement). Locally,
we support PhD students in collaborative exercises for team building and paper writing (e.g.,
machine learning for robotics) (approximately GBP 1,000/year).

Developmental activities provided by the Brunel Graduate School are complemented by specialised
research methods training, including a one-year-long Research Methods Course led by senior
members of the department. The library also provides a training programme to help our research
students develop their scholarship skills and the Language Centre provides English language
training and support. Training by the Brunel Graduate School offers a comprehensive programme of
personal and professional skills development in line with our Researcher Development Programme
aligned with the EU HR excellence in research award. (http://www.brunel.ac.uk/services/graduate-
school/training-development-and-support/researchstudents/researcher-development-programme).
Training is also offered in GTA roles towards the Associate Fellowship of the Higher Education
Academy. The University also has a dedicated research careers advisor.

Many of our research students have won awards and prizes, both internally and externally. For
example, over 10 students have been awarded best paper awards in international conferences,
including IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation (CEC-2014) and Bioimaging 2018. 8
students won the Vice Chancellor’s Prize for Doctoral Research or the Dean’s Prize for Innovation
and Impact. Furthermore, Miqing Li was the winner of the Chinese Government Award for
Outstanding Students Studying Abroad in 2015 (Ranked No. 1 in the Information Science field in the
UK), while Bashir Dodo’s work on OCT retinal analysis was featured in the mainstream media, such
as BBC World and TVC News Nigeria.

On completion, many doctoral graduates moved to lectureships or postdoctoral positions at other
universities, including Oxford, Cambridge, Imperial and UCL, while others moved to positions in
industry (for example, as a data analyst at The Times). Our research students authored papers in
top journals, including: IEEE Transactions (Evolutionary Computation; Cybernetics), Computers &
Graphics, Journal of Mobile HCI, IEEE Journal of Biomedical and Health Informatics, Optics Express,
Pacific Graphics, IEEE Journal of Biomedical and Health Informatics, IEEE Access, PLOS One, AI
in Medicine, Ecological Informatics, Carcinogenesis, Future Generation Computer Systems, etc.

iii. Equality and Diversity

Brunel has an E&D Office and Champion that manage E&D Policy (updated annually with concrete
objectives). They also support women intending to apply for promotion – the promotion’s process is
subject to an annual Equality Impact Assessment which is used to drive improvements in the equity
of the process. Our department has a balanced Athena Swan Self-Assessment Team (awarded
2016, renewed 2020). The department ensures Athena SWAN principles and actions are promoted

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and enacted wherever possible, at meetings, open days, in our recruitment, decision making and
through our teaching policies and practices. Institutionally, Brunel is developing guidance on the use
of named researchers on grant applications, conducting focus groups with BME researchers to
further explore issues raised within the local CROS 2017 survey and to better inform specific actions
around intersectionality. We strive for a representative balance of gender, disability, ethnicity and
age at all levels of staff, including at supervisory and managerial level. The Department has also
implemented a mechanism of regular data collection and analysis by gender and race of membership
of University boards and committees (e.g., College Management Boards), with data reported to the
University’s RCIG for monitoring (Principle 6).

All staff undertake compulsory E&D training as part of their compliance training. Athena Swan (AS)
awareness, initiatives and actions are included in all role descriptions. We encourage all staff to
engage with the implementation of previous actions through workshops. We present the results of
the actions taken at meetings, and staff and student away days, motivating staff to engage more as
they observe the difference their efforts are making. Additionally, we have had AS events where
prominent women researchers (e.g., Prof. Ann Blandford from UCL and Ita Richardson from
University of Limerick) have presented their work; AS champions from other universities have given
talks on their best practice of implementing AS principles to staff and PhD students. Over 90% of
our staff report they are satisfied with their awareness of diversity issues and did not feel
discriminated against at work in the last 12 months. We continue to expand our dissemination
activities by running further activities and events to allow our students and staff to see how AS actions
are changing the culture in computing.

We have made significant progress in communicating the ability to work flexibly, with 100% staff
agreeing that flexible working is supported in the Department (Brunel Voice staff survey in 2019).
Our staff of all grades prefer to agree requests with their line manager (rather than through a formal
HR request). This way, arrangements can be changed in an agile way (e.g., home working, hours
compression, etc.) Any change to contracted hours, however, still have to be approved through a
formal HR process. A potential concern with the COVID-19 pandemic is that the impact of working
from home will differ for staff with different caring responsibilities (men or women). The University
and the Department are very understanding of the situation and ask all staff in this position to do the
best they can with support from the Department (we are already supportive of flexible working).

We implement the University Parental Leave policy and insist on the use of the optional Pre-Parental
Leave Checklist for Staff to assist both the employee and the line manager to plan for the leave. All
staff, including PDRAs, are offered 52-weeks parental leave: 18 weeks at current salary; 21 weeks
at statutory pay; and 13 weeks unpaid. For shared parental leave (SPL), the mother must take the
first two weeks, and the partner can take any of the remaining leave (SPL entitlement is 50 weeks;
16 weeks fully paid). The line manager and the employee discuss the use of Keep-in-Touch (KIT)
days before the maternity leave starts. Arrangements are made for covering workload during the
absence by reallocating tasks to others in the Department. During pregnancy, allowances (changes
or adjustments) are made for the employee to undertake lighter duties to ensure their continued
good health. We are concerned that not all staff are aware of these issues and we are ensuring
better awareness of parental leave entitlements and better hand-over arrangements for staff
covering others, including recruiting parental-leave cover. The University invites staff who have
returned from a parental leave of longer than four months to submit applications to the University’s
competitive Athena SWAN Research Award grant scheme, which funds projects up to GBP 15,000
(e.g., for buying out teaching time, attending conferences, or employing research assistants). One
member of staff took two periods of maternity leave and applied/was awarded through the above
scheme.

Note that with the COVID-19 pandemic, following University guidance, promotion (and also
appraisal) criteria give the opportunity for staff to demonstrate how they have helped the University
through this challenging situation.

Overall, Brunel, as a research-intensive university, is submitting 100% of all eligible academic staff.
We followed the processes set out in our Code of Practice for the fair and transparent identification

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of independent researchers and to ensure that the submitted outputs provide a balanced and
unbiased representation of the work of our diverse academic community, their characteristics and
contractual positions (age, disability, race, sex, part-time workers and fixed-term employees). Output
selection was monitored through regular Equality Impact Assessments. Our Equality Impact
Assessment indicates that the outputs submitted for Computer Science are a well-balanced
representation of the protected characteristics and contractual positions of staff. Our submission has
a high proportion of outputs selected for staff of Asian ethnicity (16% staff of Asian ethnicity
contributing 22% of the outputs). The 40% staff aged 50-59 contributed 47% of the outputs indicating
the maturity of the unit.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Given our commitment to carry out world-leading applied research with commensurate impact, we
see external funding and engagement as crucial and aim to grow both further. We strongly
encourage colleagues to apply for external funding to support high-quality research and maintain a
world-class research culture. In the current REF period, we were awarded in excess of GBP
9,600,000 in grants, including over GBP 4,500,000 from UKRI, GBP 3,000,000 from the EU, GBP
1,100,000 from UK central government/health authorities and GBP 400,000 from industry/public
corporations. From the total grant value, GBP 3,000,000 can be classed as capacity strengthening
with countries including Nigeria, Malawi, Tanzania, Ethiopia, Ghana, India and Malaysia. Our
industrial/commercial sponsors included: Hutchison 3G UK Ltd; GlaxoSmithKline; Level Business
Ltd; Sharp Laboratories of Europe Ltd; Fujitsu Laboratories of Europe Ltd; Microsoft Research
Limited; and Ford Power Train Operations. Our researchers frequently collaborate with user groups
and attracted a significant amount of consultancy (over GBP 110,000) and this helps develop the
impact of our work. We also were awarded GBP 40,000 of industrial innovation vouchers. This
consultancy was with a mixture of industrial and not-for-profit organisations including Ipsos MORI,
Merck Serono, Veritas Advisory, DSTL, Thales, Quantel, Sellafield and the Medicine and Health
Regulatory Authority. Our Department was also recognized as part of the UKRI World Class Lab
programme and we received GBP 150,000 investment to bring together Artificial Intelligence and
Health in the new Brunel Artificial Intelligence Lab.

Our strategy to attract funding is based on strong research collaborations supported by numerous
mechanisms for finding and developing new industrial and academic collaboration. These include
our Department’s Industrial Advisory Board and work placements schemes, the University’s
Institutes and the University’s Research Services and Development Office (RSDO). We support
new members of staff by identifying opportunities for grant development through discussions with
senior members of staff and colleagues in research group meetings, internal peer-review and
workshops, and through mentoring discussions. We promote large projects that involve members of
both groups and will continue to organise focused workshops around themes that involve both
groups and to provide internal funds to support the development of interdisciplinary proposals. This
will be supported by Brunel’s Research Development Fund (for researchers working on major grant
applications) and its panel, chaired by the Vice Provost (Research), which provides additional peer
review for large funding applications. We introduce new staff to our existing industrial and academic
networks and help them to develop mature collaborations of their own through initial involvement as
Co-investigators, and support them as Principal Investigators with collaborations through existing
academic and industrial partners. We also recognise and reward successful proposals in the annual
PDR, workload allocation and promotion processes, and monitor equality and diversity issues to
ensure that grants are pursued equitably across our Department. The University’s Institutes were
introduced in this period and the Department play a major role in the Institute of Digital Futures, the
Institute of Environment, Health and Societies and the Institute of Energy Futures. The Department
is also part of Brunel Partners Academic Centre for Health Sciences (BPACHS), which works with
NHS Trusts and the University’s Africa group, helping to develop collaborations in that region. These
structures have proved invaluable in generating successful research proposals.

In addition to the elements of Brunel’s strong research infrastructure noted above, the University’s
library provides electronic access to a large selection of journals, conference proceedings and

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
facilities such as Web of Science. It also has an institutional archive (BURA), an open access
repository (Figshare), an Open Access Mandate, and an Open Access Publishing Fund. Our physical
environment has received significant investment in recent years – in 2016 we moved to a newly
refurbished building (GBP 12,500,000) which has a dedicated STEM centre on the ground floor and
three floors for Computer Science. The building has shared offices (organised by sub-
groups/projects), a large research student office, ample meeting rooms and lab spaces.

Our two groups have associated specialist hardware facilities that support their research. This
includes investment of GBP 10,000 in updating a PC-based Grid infrastructure used by Modelling
and Simulation researchers to mimic secure industrial settings (e.g., high performance simulation
impact at Saker Solutions and Sellafield (Taylor/Anagnostou) and GBP 60,000 for six rack mountable
server base units with dual CPUs and two GPU cards (10K cores) with 10 TB of storage to support
the analysis of large data sets (e.g., to support research at Green Valley (Swift/Counsell)).
Additionally, both groups make use of a further GBP 60,000 computing facility consisting of a 32-
core computer system (e.g., used for advancements in protein modelling (Pandini)). We also make
use of national HPC centres (e.g., Edinburgh Parallel Computing Centre Archer and the London-
based Materials and Molecular Modelling (MMM) Hub that both provide significant HPC resources)
and, through European collaborations, we have significant access to European HPC facilities
(Leibniz, Stuttgart, Poznan, etc.) This investment has led to joint papers, funding proposals and
research projects.

While we have had much success in obtaining funding from the Research Councils, we recognise
that in future we will have to obtain more funds from other sources including the EU. Our groups will
continue to support the development of large funding proposals through, for example, mentoring,
internal peer review and the provision of internal funds for activities that facilitate the development
of high-quality proposals. We will develop large funding applications and through this look to further
develop our presence in Industry 4.0, which is an area we will grow. We expect most large projects
to involve members of both groups and so will continue to organise focused workshops around
themes that span the groups and provide internal funds to support the development of
interdisciplinary proposals. This will be supported by Brunel’s Research Development Fund (for
researchers working on major grant applications) and its panel, chaired by the Vice Provost
(Research), that provides additional peer review for large funding applications.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

On the REF 2021 census date there were zero Category C staff.

Our approach to support effective research collaborations, networks and partnerships is enabled by
numerous mechanisms for finding and developing new industrial and academic collaboration
including our Industrial Advisory Board and work placements schemes, University’s Institutes and
the Research Services and Development Office. We support new members of staff by introducing
them to our existing industrial and academic networks. We help them to develop mature
collaborations of their own through initial involvement as Co-investigators and/or joint authors in high
quality publishing. For example, this strategy enabled Anagnostou (joined 2018) to be awarded GBP
370,000 as part of the H2020 STAMINA European pandemic crisis prediction project, Groen (joined
2017) to win two H2020 projects worth GBP 900,000 in exascale computing (VECMA) and HPC
(HILDALGO), and Destefanis (joined 2018) to obtain an innovation voucher with Hexxcell Ltd to
assess, design and implement improved testing processes.

Our reach is demonstrated by almost all of our papers having one or more international authors (95%
THES) and by the downloads of our open source/freeware software (around 20 available with
downloads totaling around 50K/year). We have many examples of successful collaborations noted
below and with the Chinese Academy of Sciences, EPFL, Google, GSK, Loiretech, MRC, Philips,
Royal Free Hospital, Zoological Society of London and Royal Botanical Gardens at Kew, and with
Duisburg (Germany), Hong Kong, Pavia, Sheffield, Swinburne (Australia), Tsinghua (China) and
UCL universities. Examples of significant research collaborations by area include:

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Commerce
Z. Wang, Liu and Lauria in the H2020 INTERGRADDE project (2018-2022) are applying advances
in Phase-Wise Many-Objective Optimisation across the Additive Manufacturing lifecycle. This is with
several prominent end users in the area including Loiretech (France), Hogskolan (Sweden), GKN
Aerospace (Sweden), Arcelormittal (Spain), DGH Robotica (Spain), and the Atomic Energy
Commission (France), and involves Imperial College, University of Sheffield and the Jules Verne
Institute of Research Technology (France). Similarly, Liu and Z. Wang are applying similar
techniques in the H2020 Z-BRE4K predictive maintenance project with the Spanish Metallurgical
Association, Atlantis Engineering (Greece), Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft (Germany) and Philips
(Netherlands). Counsell, Hall, Hierons and Swift [EPSRC projects Using Fault Characteristics to
Improve Software Fault Prediction (2014-2017), AQUATIC: Assessing the Quality of Test Suites in
Industrial Code (2015-2018) and Exploiting Defect Prediction for Automatic Software Repair (FIXIE)
(2019-2021), and the EPSRC network FIAR-NET: Faults in industry and academic research (2015-
2019)] have made major contributions to understanding how faults can be found and fixed in software
through machine learning. This work has included Green Valley, Sky Broadband, Bloomberg,
Microsoft USA, BAE Systems, Quantel Ltd, FlossLab Srl, TESM Ltd and Cagliari (Italy), Stuttgart
(Germany), Queen Mary and Lancaster Universities, and the Polytechnic of Montreal. The research
builds on a highly-cited review by Hall et al. on software defect prediction and has delivered many
industrial benefits as well as publications in IEEE Software. In this context, Destefanis and Counsell
have also investigated the impact of developer team composition in the development process
through data collection from large open source software repositories (e.g., GitHub).

Ali designed and developed an architecture recovery tool with Lero, The Irish Software Engineering
Research Centre, which has been adopted to support software maintenance in four companies
(including Fineos and Fidelity) and has influenced the practice of 17 practitioners. Work continued,
through an InnovateUK project (2014-2016), with the extension of the techniques to support the
migration of legacy systems to a more structured and service oriented architecture (Travel Places
(SME UK), and has been subsequently extended to support the migration of microservice systems
with in-kind support from several companies, including: EMERGEIQ; WESTPAC; CONNECTPME;
ACURIS; and WOOD. Taylor and Anagnostou co-designed the CloudSME Simulation Platform, with
the University of Westminster, the Institute for Computer Science and Control (SZTAKI) (Hungary),
CloudBroker (Switzerland), Inycom (Spain) [FP7 Cloud-based Simulation Platform for Manufacturing
and Engineering (CloudSME) project (2013-2015)]. CloudSME is being used to develop cloud-
based systems for high-speed simulation experimentation by many European companies (e.g.,
Saker Solutions (UK), DH CAE Tools (Germany), PODACTIVA (Spain), etc.) and a spin-off company
CloudSME UG (Germany). Subsequent research [H2020 Cloud Orchestration at the Level of
Application (COLA) (2017-19)] developed the MICADO-Scale auto-scaling cloud system. This is
being used by several companies (e.g., Outlandish, The Audience Agency, Sellafield PLC (UK)) to
develop scalable cloud services. The InnovateUK CraftBrew Whole Brewery Management System
project (2015-2018) applied some of these innovations to the UK brewing industry. Perry and
Louvieris [EPSRC project Smart Money: Precision Data Management for Distributed Ledger-
enabled Central Bank Issued Digital Currencies (2017-19), EPSRC project Digital Personhood
(2013-2016) and Royal Society project Chinese ‘Money Work’: Studies of Use and Interaction Design
for Digital Money] have worked with the Bank of England, Office of National Statistics, Ministry of
Justice and GCHQ in collaboration with City University and the Chinese University of Hong Kong to
explore how users access and use digital banking and payment services. They contributed to UK
government policy (e.g., the Technology (POST) Report on Alternative Currencies).

Healthcare/Bioinformatics
Z. Wang and Liu [Royal Society travel grant (UK-China Industry Academia Partnership Programme)]
have worked with the Fujian Key Laboratory of Medical Instrumentation and Pharmaceutical
Technology at Fuzhou University (China) to develop a series of algorithms for quantitative evaluation
of gold immunochromatographic assay (GICA). This has helped to develop/improve specific medical
devices used to test for Downs syndrome and Acute Myocardial Infarction (AMI); the devices have
been trialled in China with 468 patients having used them in two city hospitals and in five other county
hospitals with approximately 1000 patients for each hospital per year and a saving of GBP 10 per

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
patient per test. Grosan [InnovateUK Intelligent medical system with customised exercises for
personalized home telerehabilitation (IntelliRehab) project (2016-2019)], with MIGHT Malaysia,
developed gesture correctness algorithms used in the quality assessment of rehabilitation sessions
through machine learning. This is being used by Mira Rehab (UK SME) and ProvenPac (Malaysian),
and several UK-based Hospital trusts are adopting these technologies (Manchester University NHS
Foundation Trust, Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital NHS Trust, Guy's and St. Thomas' NHS
Foundation Trust, St. Helier Hospital and Great Ormond Street Hospital). Money developed ‘Falls
Sensei’, a first-person 3D exploration game that aims to educate older adults about extrinsic risk
factors associated with falls within the home environment for older adults in the UK [supported by a
Royal Society grant]. He continues to work with Disabled Living Foundation (London), Staffordshire
and Stoke-on-Trent Partnership NHS Trust, Homerton University Hospital NHS Foundation Trust,
Stoke-on-Trent Mobility and Independent Living Centre and The Shaw Trust (London). Li worked
with Moorfields (UK) and Tongren (CHINA) Eye Hospitals on medical imaging with respect to
segmentations of retina layers and diseased regions in the eye to support diagnosis. He developed
automation techniques to help improve the effectiveness of their work and to develop new protocols
in clinics. This has provided domain expert knowledge and data and has advanced the research
base in terms of level set method and graph cut in retinal analysis.

Not-for-profit Organisations
Taylor and Anagnostou in the H2020 Sci-GaIA and TANDEM projects led improvements and
strategy in digital infrastructures in National Research and Education Networks (NRENs) across
Africa. This work has benefitted over four million students and three hundred universities (with
stakeholders including WACREN (Ghana), UBUNTUNET (Malawii), Eko-Connect (Nigeria) NRENs
in Ethiopia, Kenya, Malawi, Tanzania and Zambia). This has also led to the adoption of Open Science
by the Ethiopian government. Groen [H2020 HPC and Big Data Technologies for Global Systems
(HILDAGO) project (2018-2021)] is developing large-scale HPC simulations with partners including
ATOS SE (Spain), the High Performance Computing Centre Stuttgart (Germany), Poznan
Supercomputing Centre (Poland), University of Salzburg (Austria), National Technical University of
Athens (Greece), European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (UK) and the Hungarian
Public Road network (Hungary)). Groen leads the technological development and also refugee
migration simulation (FLEE). The FLEE modelling code is being trialled by several agencies (e.g.,
the German Foreign Office and the UNHCR innovation service) and has led to the adoption of agent-
based simulation as a research priority in the UNHCR Innovation Fund. Ali [The Royal Academy of
Engineering Newton – An Autonomic Software Architecture for Knowledge Management in Medical
Diagnosis, and The Royal Society – An Autonomic Architectural Approach for Health Care Systems
(2015-2017)], in partnership with Universidad Autonoma de Mexico, led the application of self-
adaptive techniques in the Instituto Nacional de Rehabilitacion (a Mexican Hospital Centre) to reduce
the maintenance of their systems and aid doctors in the diagnosis of patients through ontologies.
The hospital adopted the ontologies and over 20 GP doctors and 500+ patients have benefited from
early diagnosis. Ghinea [The Royal Academy of Engineering Newton-Bhabha Industry Academia
Partnership Programme – Making Deep Learning and Artificial Intelligence Skills Mainstream in India
(2018-2020)] worked with Bennett University (India) to train over 6000 Trainers in Artificial
Intelligence resulting in 69 Indian Institutions adding AI-related courses in their UG Curriculum. This
has received widespread attention in India with 100+ news items in mainstream media. Ghinea has
led and applied innovations in Mulsemedia (multiple sensorial media); in the H2020 NEWTON
(Networked Labs for Training in Sciences and Technologies for Information and Communication)
project (2016-2019), with ATOS (Spain/Slovakia), SMEs (Apierian Ltd (Ireland), Kybertec (Czech
Republic), etc.) and Dublin City, Fundacion (Spain), Slovakia Technical, and Bucharest (Romania)
Universities, Mulsemedia was used to increase learner quality of experience and outcomes in novel
state-of-the art teaching labs and this created a pan-European learning network platform. Hone
worked with QinetiQ in the Defence Human Capability Science and Technology Laboratory to
investigate the role of the processing of social signals in interventions for skills training for the Ministry
of Defence as part of the EMPATIC project funded by DSTL Commercial Services. This has resulted
in new training capabilities for QinetiQ.




                                                                                                    Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Note that work on open research environments and reproducibility are described in Section 1.

Indicators of the Department’s wider influence include:

Advisory board membership: Taylor, ACM SIGSIM Steering Committee/International Computer
Simulation Archive; Bell, ACM SIGSIM Education Chair; Groen Flemish Tier-1 Allocation Board and
PRACE User Forum Steering Committee; Sengul, ACM-Women Europe Communications Chair and
Secretary; Liu, Springer Natural Computing Book Series Advisory Board, British Classification
Society Steering Committee, and IEEE Computational Intelligence Society Task Force on Many-
Objective Optimization; Perry, ACM SIGCHI Executive Committee Member; Z. Wang, Member of
the IEEE Press Editorial Board (2015-present).

External leadership roles: Bell, NHS Data Governance; Grosan advised Government Digital Services
Academy on the Emerging Technologies Programme (Artificial Intelligence topic); Liu, Member of
the international panel to assess the quality of computer science research in the Netherlands; IDA
Founder and Honorary Member of the Council; Louvieris, Confederation of British Industry (CBI) AI
Working Group, CBI Data Protection Working Group, Co-Director, Trusted Open Models Institute,
Hartree Centre, STFC; Perry, contributor and reviewer on Parliamentary Briefing paper on
‘Alternative Currencies’ (UK Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology, 2014); Sengul,
standards: IETF ACE Workgroup: ACE MQTT-TLS Profile, Kantara UMA; Shepperd, Chair of
international quinquennial review of universities Gothenburg and Chalmers; Taylor chaired DSTL
Numerical Simulation and Analysis Group formal audit, model reviewer for Ministry of Defence and
Sellafield, member of SISO- STD-009-2017 Simulation Reference Markup Language delivery team;
Tucker, Medicine and Health Regulatory Authority.

Research Councils: EPSRC College: Ali, Gilbert, Hone, Liu, Perry, Shepperd, Taylor, Wang.
Reviewer: Ali, Science and Technology Facilities Council, Dutch Research Council; Young,
European Research Universities Network (YERUN) Research Mobility Awards 2019-2020, UK
National Commission for UNESCO Newton Prize 2020; Anagnostou, EC Innovation and Networks
Executive Agency (INEA), National Science Centre (NCN), Poland; Ghinea, EU H2020 programme,
national research councils of Greece, Portugal, Kazakhstan, and Oman; Grosan, Royal Society
International Exchanges Committee, Newton Fund (the British Council) panel member; Liu, Member
of EPSRC Grant/Fellowship/Research-Hub Panels (ICT, Engineering, Healthcare), ESF College of
Expert Reviewers, Assessor for the Turing Institute Senior AI Fellowship Programme; Louvieris,
EPSRC Directed Assembly Network (Steering Committee), EPSRC Digital Personhood Network
(Steering Committee), STFC Trusted Open Models Institute (Steering Committee); Perry, IKTPLUSS
programme Panel Member (Research Council of Norway), NordForsk programme Panel Member
(Nordic research advisory body), EPSRC ICT Panel; Member of international award panels (Science
Academy of Finland, KK Foundation (Sweden) and NSERC (Canada)); Taylor, H2020 reviewer.

Journal Editors: Counsell: IEEE Software; Macredie: Virtual Reality (Springer); Taylor: Journal of
Simulation (Taylor & Francis); Z. Wang: Neurocomputing (Elsevier), International Journal of Systems
Science (Taylor & Francis), Systems Science & Control Engineering (Taylor & Francis). Associate
Editors: over 40.

Fellowships: Ghinea, Royal Academy of Engineering Newton Katip-Celebi Distinguished Visiting
Fellowship; Koulouri, Parliamentary Fellowship, House of Commons Library; Lauria, DUO-India
Fellowship; Perry, Royal Society Kan Tong Po International Fellowship; Aburumman, CMI
Fellowship at the Institute for Research in Computer Science of Toulouse (IRIT).

Keynotes: over 40, including: 2nd IEEE/ACM Second International Workshop on Emerging Trends in
Software Engineering for Blockchain (Destefanis); 11th IEEE International Conference on Ubi-Media
Computing (Ghinea); 13th International Conference on Computational Intelligence methods for
Bioinformatics and Biostatistics, 21st IberoAmerican Congress on Pattern Recognition (Liu);
IEEE/ACM Workshop on Distributed Simulation and Real Time Applications (Taylor); 13th
International Conference on Natural Computation, Fuzzy Systems and Knowledge Discovery (Z.
Wang)

                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Learned Societies: Elected member of Academia Europaea, IEEE Fellow (Z. Wang); FBCS
(Shepperd, Counsell, Li, Liu, Macredie); IEEE Senior Member (Li).

Conferences: more than 70 instances of organisation committee membership (56 IEEE/ACM); more
than 400 instances of International Programme Committees membership (300 IEEE/ACM); 17 best
papers awards (15 ACM/IEEE conferences).




                                                                                    Page 15
