Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Durham University
 Unit of assessment:
 UoA4 – Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience


 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Context and overview
 Durham Psychology, a department of 34 FTE, is an internationally recognised centre of research
 excellence and interdisciplinarity across the breadth of psychological and behavioural science.
 Significant investment in buildings and staff over the assessment period has allowed us to meet,
 and exceed, our 2014 strategic ambitions. We have consolidated our staff onto the main
 University campus, having been previously split across two sites 20miles apart, and we have
 expanded our globally recognised strengths in Cognitive Neuroscience and Developmental
 Science by establishing a new research group in Quantitative Social Psychology.
 The department has achieved significant growth on all key metrics of success. Since 2014, we
 have more than doubled our research income, achieved a 60% increase in registered research
 students, and have progressed from Bronze to two successive Silver Athena Swan awards. For
 6 of the last 7 years we have been the highest ranked department globally for total citations per
 FTE (QS) and we have climbed 100 places in the overall QS world rankings for Psychology,
 from a 151-200 ranking in 2014, to the 51-100 bracket currently maintained since 2016. The
 value of our research has been recognised through prestigious British Psychological Society
 prizes and has led to successful clinical and policy interventions, while our cultural and scientific
 outreach work has reached audiences of thousands. Our expansion from 30 FTE in 2013/14 is
 set to reach 44 by 2022.
 1.2 Structure
 Merging the department onto one site allowed strategic consolidation of staff into three research
 groups, reflecting our major areas of activity: Cognitive Neuroscience (CogNeuro),
 Developmental Science (DevSci) and Quantitative Social Psychology (QSP). These groups
 provide a core ‘home’ for academics, research staff and research students, through which they
 access shared resources, peer support and feedback, and topic- or method-focused activities in
 their area of expertise. Each group is provided a budget to support activities which enhance the
 research of members, and groups are empowered to use these funds in line with their own
 strategic priorities. Each group also leads on a Masters programme, delivering research-led
 postgraduate education.
 Our interdisciplinary strategy (below) is served by Research Centres, which bring in staff from
 across the department and from elsewhere in the university and the region to focus on a
 particular topic. Staff belong to one research group but may be members of multiple centres,
 including those external to the department. Finally, staff may also belong to one of the
 University’s research institutes (5A.2.2). The overall research structure of the department is
 shown in Figure 1 below.




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 1. Schematic of research group and centre structure. Senior (professorial) staff in each
 group in bold.
 1.2.1 Developmental Science (DevSci)
 DevSci comprises researchers investigating the developmental and phylogenetic origins of
 perceptual, cognitive, and social abilities using cutting-edge methods, including immersive
 virtual reality and motion capture, eye-tracking, thermal imaging with infants and primates, and
 foetal imaging. The group’s research includes close collaboration with cutting-edge software
 companies and stakeholder groups (see 5B.4.3.1). They run a fortnightly lunchtime seminar
 series for staff and PGRs. Key future priorities are new appointments to expand research on
 infancy, into social behaviour (strengthening connections with QSP), with neuroimaging methods
 (strengthening connections with CogNeuro), and to consolidate the group’s expertise in
 Developmental Disorders.
 DevSci hosts the Centre for Developmental Disorders, bringing together researchers,
 charities and stakeholders in a range of developmental disorders from across the North East and
 around the UK. This centre particularly facilitates interactions with Education.
 Additional strong cross-faculty and cross-disciplinary links include key collaborations with;
 Computer Scientists on children’s adoption of virtual bodies and environments; Health
 Psychologists on early (foetal) health and socio-cognitive outcomes; and Anthropologists on
 comparative and cross-cultural perspectives on affective processing. This latter collaboration
 was critical in the capture of €1.5M ERC funding by Clay.
 1.2.2 Cognitive Neuroscience (CogNeuro)
 CogNeuro places cognitive neuroscience as the fundamental discipline for understanding the
 mechanisms of behaviour and brings together all those working on the neural basis of cognition
 from computational, experimental and animal behaviour perspectives. Their research focuses in
 particular on Spatial Cognition, Learning and Memory, Attention, and Perception. They
 utilise a range of neuroscience techniques including traditional cognitive neuropsychology, TMS,
 EEG and fMRI, molecular neuroscience, extracellular electrophysiological single-unit recording
 and lesion studies in rodents. The group leads on impact and engagement around Dementia,
 Epilepsy (see discussion of NEURACLIN in S4), stroke (see ICS1-DREX) and blindness, and

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 improvements in use of animals in research (NC3Rs). They have strong links with the NHS,
 industrial partners such Cambridge Research Systems and charitable organisations such as the
 Alzheimer’s Society, the Stroke Association and PSP Association. Group members regularly
 organise workshops and meetings that bring world-leading scholars to Durham (e.g. ORCA
 2016, Probabilistic Brain 2018, NEURACLIN), and co-hosted an international meeting on
 Cognitive and Motor Processes in Spatial Attention in 2019.
 CogNeuro hosts the Durham Centre for Imaging (DCI), the Centre for Vision and Visual
 Cognition (CVVC), and Centre for Learning and Memory Processes, each of which are
 linked with key university facilities (the MRI scanner, CVVC laboratory unit, and Life Sciences
 Support Unit respectively).
 Key future priorities for CogNeuro are to recruit technical and theoretical expertise in
 neuroimaging and behavioural neuroscience which bridges the sub-areas of the research group
 and further strengthen inter-disciplinary connections to both DevSci and QSP.
 1.2.3 Quantitative Social Psychology (QSP)
 QSP is concerned with understanding and influencing social behaviour. Their research expertise
 covers basic and applied inter-group attitudes, health and wellbeing, social cognition, and
 cross-cultural research. Research methods are diverse including: behavioural experiments,
 neuroimaging, developmental studies, and fieldwork conducted with businesses and special
 populations, such as UK prisoners and rural Nicaraguan villagers. The group has established an
 integrated psycho-physiology and virtual reality lab, and a ‘bar lab’ (5B.3.3), has invested in
 software benefiting the whole department (SONA, Qualtrics: 5B3.2) and runs monthly group
 meetings and an annual (paid) undergraduate internship. The particular strength of the group in
 applied research has been recognised through awards for work on self-injury/suicide in women's
 prisons (Towl), terrorism and social attitudes (Van de Vyver), and e-cigarette advertising and
 alcohol labelling (Vasiljevic). Immediate future plans include establishing a new Centre for
 Behavioural Science, and a Behavioural Science Clinic to facilitate translational research and
 user engagement.
 1.2.4 External Centres and Research Institutes
 Staff are additionally involved in external University Research Centres and Institutes (Figure 1;
 5A.2.2), many of which are led or co-led by Psychology staff (Ellison director of WRIHW;
 Fernyhough co-founder and Research Developmental Fellow for IMH, Alderson-Day on steering
 group; Kentridge Co-Director of CVAC; Boothroyd steering committee of BEER; plus nine
 themes/special topics led by Psychology staff across WRIHW, BSI and IAS). These activities are
 critical to our interdisciplinary strategic goals (below) and build connections across departments
 to support excellence in both research and impact. The WRIHW and BSI for instance, have
 provided funding and networking opportunities for staff at all levels. Notably, two of our impact
 case studies (ICS1-DREX and ICS2-Voices) were developed from Special Interest Groups
 and research streams within the Wolfson (Stroke, and Medical Humanities respectively) The
 emergent Institute for Medical Humanities then remained critical to the interdisciplinary nature
 and success of Hearing the Voice.
 BEER and DCERC have enhanced the comparative and evolutionary work in the department
 and attracted prominent rising stars in primatology (e.g. Clay and her PDRA Krupenye). DCERC
 in particular was critical in the success of Clay’s ERC, Templeton and ESRC grants, which
 brought nine researchers (postdoc/PGR) into the department. CVAC has not only forged
 connections between Psychology and Archaeology in particular, but also sponsored joint talks,
 and provided PGR funding through the Leverhulme doctoral training centre of the same name.
 Finally, DRMC has been critical in our emerging staff training programme (5B.2.1.2).
 1.3 Research governance and integrity
 Our management structure is designed to support and enhance our research and impact
 strategy. Those committees with remits relating to research are summarised in Table 1.
 Research strategy and policy are developed by the Director of Research, with input from the
 Head of Department, Director of Impact (see below for further detail on this role) and members

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Research Committee. This committee is constituted to ensure that staff across the
 department are represented via Research Group leaders and research/PGR/technical
 representatives, while centre directors and institute representatives support the integrative
 priorities of the department. The Department’s Strategy Group ensures research and impact
 strategy is harmonised with education strategy and feeds research priorities into staffing plans.
 All decisions made on these committees are subject to further consultation and approval by the
 Board of Studies, consisting of all academic staff and representatives of other staff and student
 groups.
 Table 1. Relevant committees within the department (chairs bolded).

                 Members                                               Remit
 Strategy group  Head of Department, Director of Research,             High level strategy
                 Director of Impact, Directors of Education,           discussion with
                 Director of EDI, DCI (MRI) rep, ECR rep,              recommendations to Board
                 Research staff rep, Student reps.                     of Studies. Ensuring teaching
                 Professional services: Department                     and research strategy
                 Administrator, Senior Research                        development is coherent.
                 Administrator, Technical Manager                      Staffing strategy.
    Research     Director of Research, Director of Impact,             Research strategy and
    Committee    Research Group Leaders, Directors of                  policy. Approving research
                 Centres, Director of Postgraduate Research,           leave. Supporting strategic
                 Research Staff rep, Chair of OSWG                     equipment applications.
                 Professional services: Senior Research                Distributing internal
                 Administrator, Technical Manager                      research/equipment funds.
            Open Chair, Durham Research Methods Centre                 Assessment of current
         Science rep, + 3 academic staff, 2 PGR reps                   practices and skills
         Working                                                       shortages, development of
           Group                                                       training and departmental
                                                                       initiatives.
        Ethics   Chair, HoD, Human Tissue coordinator,                 Assessment and annual
      committee  PGR rep, +8 academic staff                            audit of ethics applications.
                 Professional services: Health & Safety                Development of ethics policy.
                 Coordinator, Senior Research Administrator            GDPR training/reporting.
                 +3 external members
   EDI Committee Director of EDI, HoD, 7 academic staff,               EDI audits, policy and
                 Research Staff Representative, Student                initiatives across the
                 representatives                                       department. Athena Swan
                 Professional services: Department                     submission.
                 Administrator, Secretary

 1.3.1 Open science and reproducibility
 In 2019, the Open Science Working Group (OSWG) chair joined Research Committee to
 ensure that both reproducibility and open research practices are explicitly considered during
 policy and resource decisions. Department surveys in 2019 and 2020 showed good early
 engagement in reproducible analyses and more open publication practices (see Figure 2) but
 also identified key areas for development which the group is now targeting (see Section 2:
 training). Staff can use Research Committee funds to support Gold Open Access publication
 where UKRI block-grant or other funds are unavailable (51% of the department’s 2014-20
 outputs are Gold Open access). A key priority is to now develop a departmental reproducibility
 policy, and to identify how we can further support good practice.




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Figure 2. Open and Reproducible Science Practices Within the Department

              At least one of the below
      Supported a student or ECR in OS
            Written a registered report
      Pre-registered a study or analysis
 Shared data/code/materials on request
       Published open stimuli/materials
                Published analysis code
                  Published open data
                                           0%   10%   20%    30%   40%   50%   60%   70%   80%   90%   100%

 1.3.2 Ethics
 Institutional approval of human research is granted by the Ethics Committee for all staff,
 postgraduates and undergraduates, using the university’s dedicated online system, which allows
 easy tracking of revisions, annual audits, and completion reports. The committee has organised
 departmental training in key aspects of research governance, including the Human Tissue Act,
 GDPR and ensuring participant safety when data is made open. We have also secured an
 ESRC SafePod in the main Library for sharing sensitive data. The Committee recently
 developed policies to support our increasing levels of research in distant, low/middle-income
 countries, including remote working guidance, and informed consent protocols for participants
 with low levels of literacy. Research on non-human species in the department is subject to Home
 Office licensing and institution-level review (5A.2.3).

  Table 2. Goals in 2014 Department Plan                    Evidence of success
  “research focussed within a small number of               New group structure                   5A.1.2
  research groups of international standing”
  “increase PGR numbers”                                    60% increase 2014 vs 2020             5A.2.2
  “compete more effectively for research                    > doubled total income over REF       5A.3.1
  income”                                                   period
  “collaborative, interdisciplinary research with           Increased commercial funding;         5A.3.1
  Institutes, international partners, industry and          international visiting fellows;       5A.2.1
  the public sector”                                        international publications;           5A.4.1
                                                            stakeholder collaborations            5A.4.3


 1.4 Strategy
 The department’s integrated research and impact strategy is built around the recognition that
 interdisciplinarity is the best route to meaningful real-world effects and that supporting the
 development and research goals of academics increases both quality and resilience in research
 outcomes. In order to meet and move beyond our strategic goals from 2014 (Table 2), we
 therefore adopted a three-pronged approach of: building the foundations for interdisciplinarity,
 supporting staff to acquire the skills and funding for excellent research, and broadening and
 rewarding staff engagement in impact.
 1.4.1 Building interdisciplinarity
 Psychology is inherently multidisciplinary which provides rich ground for interdisciplinarity across
 subjects. Our goal has been to first create the building blocks of that interdisciplinarity within the
 department, second foster cross-group links, and third reach outwards to other departments and
 institutions.



                                                                                                       Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Progress 2014-2020:
       A vital step in interdisciplinarity was to create a more balanced research profile,
        encompassing a broader range of psychological science, achieved by developing
        the Quantitative Social Psychology group, to sit alongside our existing strengths in
        Developmental and Cognitive Neuroscience.
       We doubled the number of Research Centres, to further increase routes for
        interdisciplinary collaboration across and beyond the department. We also broadened the
        DCI to incorporate facilities in Sports Science and supported staff to increase their
        involvement in Institutes (see above/5B.4.1).
       Investment in shared research facilities, with spending on space and equipment
        prioritising those which support collaborative use (see e.g. discussion of VR 5B.3.3.2).
       Embedding interdisciplinarity into the department’s events and processes; for
        instance, our annual ‘research away day’ and departmental seminar series present
        research from/speakers nominated by all research groups, and include explicit
        interdisciplinary sessions. For PGRs, all application assessments, progression reviews
        and mentoring arrangements involve members of staff from at least two research group
        (see 5B.2.2 below), and our workload model recognises co-supervision of students
        across academic departments.
 Plans 2020-2027:
       We are forming a whole-university participant pool for behavioural research (lead:
        Weick), under the auspices of the Durham Research Methods Centre.
       Projects under the banner of the IAS will develop new connections between Psychology
        and English (leads: Easton, Alderson-Day).
       To consolidate the above, we will establish a Research Centre for Behavioural Sciences,
        hosted by the QSP group, to act as a nexus for behavioural research across the
        University and beyond. Scoping workshops with colleagues from the Business School,
        Computer Science, Sociology, Education, Music, and Sport and Exercise have
        demonstrated significant appetite. Emerging cross-departmental funding bids (e.g.,
        EPSRC – Ellison; NERC – Beierholm, Covey, Vasiljevic, & Weick) attest to the potential
        of the new centre to provide a hub for interdisciplinary research at Durham.
 1.4.2 Supporting excellent research
 We are committed to facilitating the production of high quality and innovative research through:
 recruitment and training, ensuring critical mass of staff and PGRs within groups, and investment
 of resources into all stages of the research process from project formation and grant capture to
 publication.
 Progress 2014-2020:
       Developed core research group structure (above) to enable targeted peer support and
        collaboration.
       Expanded staff and researcher development including targeting new and emerging
        issues and techniques, and enhanced mentoring and research leave offer (5B.2.1).
       Developed specific policies around application auditing, within- and between-group peer
        review, proposal-writing training, and use of existing internal expertise on grant panels, to
        support research income capture (see 5B.3.1), resulting in notable success including
        large ERC, Wellcome and NIHR awards and more than doubling our total income vs last
        REF.
       Increased by 50% the sums staff can request from Research Committee to support
        research development, including pump priming, network development, international
        travel, publication fees, and hosting potential research fellows. Research and teaching
        fellows have also been given access to these resources to support their career

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        development. Notably, this budget has been protected from COVID-19 related cutbacks.
        As discussed below (2.1) these steps have resulted in, amongst other outcomes,
        attracting our first independently funded fellows since 2005 and excellent fixed-term staff
        career destinations.
       Using the department’s share of overheads from research grants under the university
        incentivisation scheme (5A.4.2) to increase discretionary spending for all academic
        staff, in recognition of the collective collegial efforts in peer review above.
       Formation of the Open Science Working Group (see above/Section 2).
 Plans 2020-2017:
       Further increase independent fellowships; we already have two UKRI applications
        going forward and one NENC ARC fellowship starting in AY2020-21.
       Continue supporting staff to win larger UKRI and charity grants through our funding
        strategy (5B.3.1) and expand consultancy income in line with our impact strategy
        below.
       Further develop our policies on reproducibility and broader research methods
        training for existing staff.
 1.4.3 Enabling impact
 Progress 2014-2020:
 Our approach to impact has changed radically during the assessment period. In 2014, one
 ‘catch-all’ research group (Applied, Clinical and Health), then based at our secondary campus at
 Stockton-on-Tees and poorly integrated into the remainder of the department based at Durham
 City, delivered the bulk of our impact strategy. The site merger, however, facilitated the
 integration of application and impact into all of our consolidated research groups and the
 development of a research environment in which all three groups contributed an ICS to the
 current submission. Alongside institutional level initiatives (5A.4.4), we have used structures,
 policies and our staffing strategy to support all staff in identifying and realising the potential
 applications of their research. In particular we:
       Created a Director of Impact in 2014 who: offers 1:1 support to all staff on the
        development of their impact programmes; mentors Impact Case Study leaders; makes
        links between staff and the University’s central research impact support officers, impact
        funding schemes, and broader academic community, paving pathways to
        implementation.
       Built increasing relationships with external stakeholders by:
            o appointing staff with prior commercial backgrounds (Leite: deLoitte) and
                networks (Crisp, Van de Vyver, Vasiljievic, Weick);
            o expanding our Centres and Institutes, and additional stakeholder/clinician
                networks (see 5B.4.2.1);
            o appointing a Professor in Practice co-hosted by the WRIHW;
            o developing new partnerships (e.g. Channel 4).
       Invested in research infrastructure which increases ecological validity (see the ‘Bar
        Lab’ and VR in Section 3), to bridge the gap between controlled experimentation and
        real-world behaviour.
       Adjusted policies to recognise staff effort in impact delivery and ensure
        sustainability, via our workload model, research leave policies, and departmental
        funding for impact development to complement University and ESRC Impact-
        Acceleration funds. All ICS leaders benefitted from department resources and ICS1-
        DREX and ICS3-PrisonSuicide received impact-focused research leave in the current
        period.




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Outcomes and plans 2020-27:
 Our staff have, as a result of these changes, been supported to develop impact through three
 key approaches which we will now carry forward:
       Those doing basic science are now aware as early as possible, via the Director of
        Impact and our Research Centres/Institutes, of key stakeholders and downstream
        outcomes. This is exemplified in ICS1-DREX, where basic research into visual attention
        has formed the basis for iterative co-design with NHS, stroke patients and carers, of a
        therapeutic tool.
            o Next REF period we will see impacts arising from multiple projects won in the
                current period with this kind of impact built in (e.g. McGregor: ESRC, navigation
                and fire evacuation; Thaler: BBSRC, echolocation training for the blind).
       ICS2-Voices took a step further by treating stakeholder experiences as the research
        question itself. This involved using interdisciplinary approaches (with English, Medical
        Humanities and Sociology, facilitated by the WRIHW) to co-create subsequent directions
        of research and has resulted in both empirical work on interventions, and commercial
        impacts (e.g. NinjaTheory’s successful Hellblade game).
            o Next steps are to continue supporting others to take this approach; e.g.
                Boothroyd’s Wellcome award on eating attitudes in low-income countries; Hanley
                & Riby’s work on anxiety in Williams Syndrome.
       Finally, Towl’s pre-existing background in a key stakeholder organisation (as former
        head of UK Prison Psychology) was critical to him conducting the quantitative research
        underpinning the Harris Report and subsequent policy changes discussed in ICS3-
        PrisonSuicide. This shaped our decision above to recently appoint more staff with
        similar backgrounds or connections, and has already resulted in new public reports (Van
        de Vyver: e.g. Durham Respect Commission), spin-out commercialisation (Crisp:
        TheParticipantHub) and collaborative projects with ESRC-IAA funding (Weick, Vasilevic).
            o Next we plan to facilitate further consultation and stakeholder-led work
                through the planned Behavioural Science centre, by establishing a Behavioural
                Science Clinic for commercial and third sector clients in 2020-21, and targeted
                recruitment of a further Professor in Practice.




                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Section 2. People
 2.1 Staff
 The department has 35 academic staff (34 FTE, see Figure 1 for groupings) with an average
 age of 43. A breakdown of academic staff by gender is shown in Table 3. The comparatively low
 average age, unchanged since 2014, reflects our ongoing strategy of replacing retiring and
 departing (and sadly in three cases, deceased) staff with high calibre early career academics.
 Table 3. Breakdown of Cat A staff
                          Female                     Male
                N (FTE)      mean age     N (FTE)       mean age
  Professor       4 (4)            50      6 (5.7)          52
  Associate       6 (6)            42      10 (10)          46
  Assistant      6 (5.3)           36       3 (3)           41
  Total        16 (15.3)           40     19 (18.7)         47

 Thirteen academic staff were appointed this current REF period (8 women) including seven
 current members of the QSP group. Five staff are already due to start AY2020/21 (2 women). In
 line with University strategy (5A.3.1), we pursued wide-ranging international searches; 45% of
 current staff hold overseas/joint nationality. Having established three broad pillars of Psychology
 this REF period, we will continue to recruit across all three areas in a way which maximises
 interdisciplinary collaboration with new posts supported by resilient student numbers.
 We currently have 11 members of research staff out of 23 in total this REF period (including two
 independent fellowships; Dachtler: Alzheimer’s Society; Martin: DiFerenS2). We have also
 hosted three Senior Research Fellows on 6-month visiting fellowships (South, BYU;
 Christensen, Australian National University; Alba-Ferrara, NSTRC Argentina) and six 2-month
 IAS fellows including Smithson (Oxford), Arciuili (Sydney/Flinders), Halpern (Bucknell).
 Research in the department is supported by the Department Manager, the Senior Research
 Administrator and the Postgraduate Research Coordinator (all women), and three technicians (1
 woman).




 2.1.1 Research Leave
 A key factor in support for staff has been a significantly more attractive Research Leave offer.
 Prior to 2016, teaching needs (particularly given the split site) meant Psychology staff were only

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 permitted to take one term at a time and teaching was moved into the other term. As such few
 staff took leave as nine weeks relief was considered too costly in the other term. Since 2016
 however, staff can accumulate their earned leave allowance (see 5A.3.3) and take two
 consolidated terms including the Summer term or in special circumstances a full year of
 research leave. This was facilitated by shifting to single-term/co-taught modules to increase
 workload flexibility; project supervision is also undertaken pro-rata during that year. As a result,
 in 2017-20, thirteen staff have taken research leave, resulting in grant success (e.g. Nardini:
 ERC), major publications (e.g. Boothroyd: JPSP; McGregor: JEP:G) and impact development
 (e.g. Towl: ICS3-PrisonSuicide).
 2.1.2 Training and Development
 Staff development operates at a number of levels and with different focuses. Broadly, we provide
 support at individual, group and department level.
 Individual staff members meet a mentor regularly during probation (academic staff), and
    continue to receive at minimum an annual mentoring meeting (all staff) focused on
    progression feedback from the University’s newly transparent Promotions system (5A.3.2).
    This helps individuals identify training needs, additional mentoring needs, and administrative
    and leadership opportunities to further their personal development. As a result, staff have
    self-selected onto training provided by the university (e.g. Research funding workshops
    aimed at ECRs, leading research courses for first time PIs, training for senior leadership, PI
    health and safety, working with the media, PGR supervision, and data management) and
    external courses (e.g. Aurora/Leadership Foundation training, multilevel modelling, agent
    based modelling, Future Founders commercialisation programme, and specialist
    software/techniques such as VR with eye-tracking, online testing platforms, functional
    sonography and brain imaging software).
 Research groups have budgets for topic and methods focused training in a manner which is
   flexible to the needs of group members. Consolidation of our core research groups has
   increased these activities in the current REF period (e.g. five 1hr meetings across all
   groups AY2012/13, vs c.20 in AY2019/20). These have included domain-specific seminars
   led by postgraduates, staff and external speakers; workshops with external speakers to
   support e.g. impact delivery, grant capture; and grant ‘pitch to peers’. These are also
   complemented by smaller ‘lab group’ journal clubs which may cut across groups (e.g.
   Nardini/Beierholm: Cue integration; Boothroyd/Clay: cultural & comparative).
 Whole staff workshops, introduced in 2016, focus on particular issues of benefit to all research
   active staff and PGRs including: writing high impact publications, grant capture with UKRI
   and the ERC, GDPR and data management, technical support, grant costings, large scale
   multi-lab research (e.g. the Psychological Science Accelerator), and newly acquired platforms
   such as Qualtrics and SONA participant management software. This has been recently
   enhanced by the Open Science Working Group which has run a Summer School on
   statistical programming language R and data visualisation (in collaboration with the Research
   Methods Centre) and workshops on Bayesian analysis and Pre-registration. The group also
   runs a fortnightly journal club covering e.g. effect sizes, power analysis, pre-registration
   plans, and evaluating evidence. This has allowed us to build on and consolidate our growing
   expertise and experience in this domain, with 84% of staff engaging in at least one form of
   Open Science practice (see Figure 2).
 Research incentivisation funds also contribute to staff development. Commencing AY 2018-19,
   the university returned 20% of net grant overheads to departments to facilitate strategic
   research goals. The department used these funds to develop i. an ‘ECR studentship’ to
   provide junior colleagues with additional opportunities to develop supervisory experience, and
   ii. as noted above (5B.1.4.2), provide staff with £500 additional research budget a year for
   strategic activities including research costs, publication costs, training and networking.
 In total, 62% of current staff report having attended some form of writing, methods or statistics
 training provided by the department in the last three years, in addition to University and external
 training.


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Evidence for the success of our strategy can be seen through
    i.      examples of staff taking/moving to senior leadership roles (e.g. Ellison: WRIHW;
            Riby: ESRC NINE-DTP Director; Eacott, now PVC at Essex);
    ii.     high rates of promotions of staff in the last 2 rounds (seven to associate professor,
            seven to professor),
    iii.    retention of previously appointed young academics (e.g. 40% of staff and half of our
            professors held their first permanent post at Durham)
    iv.     the dramatic increase in grant capture including amongst younger colleagues, with
            88% of all current staff having been a PI or Co-I since 2014.
 Importantly, our staff development opportunities are attended by research staff and
 teaching fellows, who can also access research committee resources to support the
 development of their research and careers beyond the scope of their contracted role. This
 contributes to the majority of these staff then winning permanent academic posts here and
 elsewhere (Figure 4).




 2.2 Postgraduate Research
 44 PhDs (37.8 FTE) were successfully completed 2013-14 to 2019-20 with 40 students currently
 registered for research degrees following a significant increase in registrations across the REF
 period (see Figure 3).
 Our students have received funding from a broad range of sources including the department, the
 university, UKRI (ESRC, MRC, GCRF) and NHS, charities such as Leverhulme, NC3Rs,
 Templeton Foundation, and the Baily Thomas Charitable Trust, commercial companies such as
 Proctor and Gamble and Channel 4, the European Research Council, and overseas
 governments (e.g. Brazil, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Taiwan and Turkey).
 Students also receive in-kind support through collaborative studentships with companies (e.g.
 VICON, and 3rd Sector bodies (e.g. Bare-Toed Dance Company).
 We achieved our dramatic increase in PGR numbers across the current REF period
 (Figure3) by i. increasing commercial partnerships and winning external funds which include
 PGRs, ii. providing staff training in UKRI training centre applications, and iii. advertising project
 outlines to attract strong candidates who can more successfully compete in faculty and external
 funding competitions. We are therefore in a strong position to significantly increase our number
 of completed research degrees in the next REF period.
 The Department plays a strong role in supporting postgraduate research across the social
 sciences at Durham and in the region; Riby is director of the ESRC NINE Doctoral Training
 Partnership covering North East England and Northern Ireland. Furthermore, our taught MA
 Research Methods provides research training for ESRC funded students. This includes students
 in other pathways who take our Applied Statistics course as an essential component of their
 training.


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2.1 Support and training
 All students have an annual skills review with their supervisory team, to direct their
 development. Alongside central provision (5A.3.5), all departmental workshops above are
 inclusive of PGRs; students are actively involved in all research groups, centres, and the Open
 Science Working Group. In addition to their supervisory team, PGRs each have a gender-
 balanced review/mentor team who offer support to ensure their yearly progression. In line with
 our interdisciplinarity strategy these reviewers are from different research groups and provide
 not only another perspective on the doctoral research but can support employability
 development and open up wider academic networks.
 All PGRs are supported via Postgraduate Education Committee to attend at least one
 international conference over their PhD, in addition to a national conference each year. Students
 are encouraged to present at these conferences to build vital presentation skills. The committee
 also awards funds to cover additional research costs as students’ projects develop.
 Postgraduate students have built a vibrant community within the department. As well as
 general social support, with weekly coffee in their new common room, the students lead their
 own ‘PGTips’ seminar series in which speakers are invited to deliver talks on general aspects of
 the research process, careers, wellbeing, and methodologies. They also organise an annual
 postgraduate conference at which students give talks and posters, alongside notable keynote
 speakers such as leading women in neuroscience (Hurlbert), pioneers in large scale and open
 science practices in Psychology (Jones and DeBruine), and winners of BPS researcher awards
 (Slocombe).
 The strength of this community and both departmental and institutional support has been
 externally recognised through research prizes (Ridley: PsyPAG Masters Research award
 2019), early career keynote addresses (McDougal: Neurodevelopmental Disorder Annual
 Seminar 2019), conference prizes (Best poster PsyPAG: Keenaghan) and book contracts
 (Horsley, Thomson, Kuay).
 Our postgraduate students thus enter the workforce with highly desirable track records and skill
 sets. The vast majority of our PGRs stay in academia (Figure 4) while the majority of those who
 leave enter clinical training.
 2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusiveness (EDI)
 EDI is at the core of all strategy within the department. Our Department includes leading
 international academics on key EDI issues such as intergroup relations (Crisp; Leite; Van de
 Vyver), neurodiversity (Riby, Hanley), aging (neurodegeneration: Lever), and at-risk populations
 (Towl). Furthermore, staff have led on university-level reports which have recommended
 institutional policy and practice changes in regard to mentoring (Boothroyd), sexual misconduct
 (Boothroyd, Towl) and respect at work (Van de Vyver). The EDI committee (Table 1) meets
 termly, with the EDI lead (Reissland) a core member of department management, and EDI
 issues are explicitly considered under a standing agenda item at all other department meetings.
 Policy development must consider EDI impacts before implementation. Since 2014, the
 department has taken a number of steps to enhance EDI including:
       targeting networks representing women and BAME academics during staff recruitment
        searches, resulting in more offers to these groups (offers AYs2017-20: 70% women, 25%
        BAME),
       introducing a policy of enhanced research funding support alongside the guaranteed
        research leave for staff returning from maternity/parental leave (5A.3.3), with flexibility
        around research leave also granted on an ad hoc basis for those with disabilities or other
        caring responsibilities;
       ensuring staff on parental leave can access research funds for KIT days;
       ensuring that workload is allocated pro-rata to staff taking parental leave within a given
        academic year (ending the practice of compressing full-loads into one term);
       funding an EDI Studentship for academic research into topics on diversity and inclusion;
       allowing research funds to be utilized to support travel with dependents for staff and
        PGRs;

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       adapting our new building for a wheelchair using PGR student;
       creating more representative and inclusive management structures and processes (e.g.,
        strategy group includes ECR, teaching track and support staff representatives; weekly
        HoD coffee ‘drop ins’, policy documents posted for comment on Blackboard, standing
        open-invitation to all staff for all departmental committees).
 During this REF period, 4 academics have taken maternity leave and all returned to work full
 time, supported by the policies above. Leadership roles within the department are allocated
 in a manner which aligns with EDI objectives, and are supported by both internal and
 external leadership training (as discussed above). The department had its first female Head
 during the present REF period, and at present half of senior roles in the department are held by
 women, including our Director of Research (Boothroyd), Director of Impact (Ellison), Director of
 EDI (Reissland), Technical Manager (Stanton) and Departmental Manager (Loughlin).
 Furthermore, three of four Research Centre leads are women, while two centres have earlier
 career academics as directors (Olkkonen: CVVC) or co-directors (Olkkonen/Ihssen: DCI).
 The strength of our policies and practices with regards to EDI in the current period have been
 recognized with two Silver Athena Swan awards, and their success in effecting real change in
 the academic careers of our staff is reflected in the fact that our submission includes outputs
 from women (50.5%) and BAME staff (7%) which exceeds their representation in the department
 (45% and 5.9% respectively). 53% of outputs were also authored by parents/carers of young
 children (<11yrs). Likewise, although we started 2014 with only two female professors (now a
 PVC/deceased respectively), we currently have more female professors than ever before (four),
 all of whom were promoted internally in the last two years following time spent in departmental
 and faculty leadership positions, and two of whom have been in the department since their first
 academic appointment (Boothroyd/Ellison). Similarly, our recently promoted professors include
 at least one disclosed case of mental health disability.




                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Income
 The department has experienced a significant and sustained increase in research funding
 compared to the previous REF period (see Figure 5), with our peak of c.£1.4M in 2018 being
 more than triple our annual income just four years earlier and total income across the period
 more than double last REF. Our income includes major programmatic awards (e.g. Fernyhough
 (PI) and Alderson-Day, Wellcome: total value to University £2.9M 2015; Riby (Co-I) NIHR: total
 value £1M 2017; Clay ERC: €1.5M 2018; Nardini, ERC: €2M 2018), substantial UKRI and
 Leverhulme funds, and a range of charity and overseas grants. Likewise, our commercial
 research income includes both long-term partnerships such as with Channel 4 and Procter and
 Gamble, alongside grants and consultancies. In total 88% of current staff have held research
 funds in this period (94% excluding those appointed to first post in the last year).
 3.1.1 Income strategy
 The department views income as the foundation for excellent research and has significantly
 increased investment in income capture during the assessment period. Individual discussions
 with staff during DPPC feedback identify necessary resources for their plan of research and
 what applications they therefore plan to submit, with financial, development and workload
 support provided as needed. Staff are encouraged to apply to the schemes best suited to their
 research needs, regardless of FEC/overhead position; a fact attested to by our good income
 from charities as well as UKRI sources.
 Structure and policies at University and Department level support the development of high-
 quality proposals. All staff have discretionary allocations of £1Kp/a (plus £500 in AY2019-20
 under the department’s research incentivisation budget discussed above) and Research
 Committee awards c. £16Kp/a via light-touch applications; this allows staff to focus funding
 efforts on larger projects. The University grants Seedcorn Awards of up £25K for development
 of major research programs (5A.4.1), and Research Committee funds can cover up to £750 per
 application for pump priming, and another £750 to conduct additional pilot work for resubmission
 of well-reviewed but unsuccessful bids.
 The University has expanded professional support for grants (5A.4.4); Research Operations
 work with staff in application and post-award phases, while the Research Development officer
 runs funding workshops for new staff and supports individuals (typically directed to her by the
 Director of Research) in developing and targeting funding bids for major programmes (see e.g.
 our Wellcome success and two current UKRI Future Leaders applicants). UKRI Pathways to
 Impact, Impact Acceleration funding bids, and external commercial/translational bids are also
 supported by the Director of Impact and central Impact Development Officers.
 Peer review of grants is enhanced at all stages of proposal development through the UKRI
 liaison groups, our Research Groups (who provide specialist reviews) and Centres (which
 facilitate end-user and interdisciplinary perspectives), with multiple rounds of mock interviews for
 major funding schemes (e.g. ERC, UKRI-FLF, Wellcome Collaborative Awards). The Director of
 Research audits peer review and resource planning during the application approvals
 process, with additional training and best-practice workshops planned on a responsive basis.
 Finally, research leave can be used to strategically support applications. For instance, Nardini’s
 recent £1.8M ERC grant was developed during a period of targeted research leave, while
 Boothroyd’s Wellcome Seed Award was based on groundwork laid during research leave and
 with University Seedcorn funds.




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 3.2 Infrastructure and computing
 The department currently occupies 1814m2 across two adjacent buildings. All academic staff
 have their own offices, while other staff and postgraduate researchers have their own desks
 within shared offices. While we previously had minimal capacity for social space, there are now
 dedicated staff, postgraduate, and undergraduate common rooms, with integrated or adjacent
 kitchen facilities; these spaces are also used to support journal clubs and lab meetings. Staff
 and PGRs are supplied with their own personal computers (upgraded every 4 years) and access
 a wide range of generic and specialist programmes through the University’s ‘AppsAnywhere’
 system. This includes statistical and analytical packages (e.g. AMOS structural equation
 software, Jamovi, JASP, RStudio, SPSS, Stata; NVivo), programming (MATLAB with plugins)
 and simulation programmes (Rescorla-Wagner simulator). The department also supports staff to
 purchase individual licences as required (e.g. MPlus/Stata for statistical analysis; Inquisit Web
 for online experiments; Observer for video coding).
 The University provides access to high-powered computing facilities, and staff are also able to
 run their own clusters and servers to support their research. There are nine servers within the
 department totalling c. 90 Xeon cores and one dedicated online research server (face.dur.ac.uk).
 Recently, the department invested in a Qualtrics licence such that staff and students can more
 easily conduct online research with low levels of training required. Our student participant pool is
 managed through SONA which advertises studies and assigns participation-credit (which they
 later translate into pool access for dissertations), while our family participant pool and school
 contacts are managed through databases.
 3.3 Research facilities
 Our new building and £2M infrastructural investment, along with £173K from strategic equipment
 funds within the university, start-up funds, and partnerships with industry, has allowed us to
 significantly increase our research capacity in terms of both specialist testing spaces and
 equipment. 42% of the department floor space is dedicated to research. The department runs
 two major facilities: the MRI scanner (see below), and the Centre for Vision and Visual Cognition
 wing, a dedicated building of smaller testing rooms, housing a number of the laboratories
 discussed below. We are also, alongside Biosciences, primary users of the University’s Life
 Sciences Support Unit. Other labs are housed in the main department buildings, close to staff
 offices. Access to all labs and equipment is managed through an online booking system; in line
 with our interdisciplinary strategy, labs are not assigned to particular individuals or groups, which
 allows both efficiency in use, and also increases diversity in research. For instance, the
 development of our first virtual reality lab was actively instrumental in increasing numbers of
 existing staff across all research groups developing VR projects and led directly to £102K of
 further university investment in these facilities. In total 40% of submitted outputs use one or
 more of the facilities below.


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.3.1 Neuroscience facilities
 Staff continue to benefit from our 3-Tesla Siemens MRI scanner, housed at James Cook
 University Hospital at South Tees NHS Trust, and our department-based, full-sized mock MRI
 system with integrated stimulus/response systems, for technical planning, task piloting and
 participant familiarisation. Since 2014, the scanner has been upgraded to include MRI-
 compatible eye-tracking systems and real-time analysis set-ups for neurofeedback.
 We have significantly expanded our EEG laboratories from one system to: a wet-EEG lab
 featuring two EEG systems in separate ‘pods’, a control bench, and washing facilities; and three
 dry-EEG systems including biofeedback, for ambulatory and domestic brain-computer interface
 research. The Wet-EEG lab was funded as part of the department’s merger onto one site, while
 the dry-EEG equipment was funded through start-up and a grant from the BSI. These facilities
 have attracted EPSRC bursaries, and Leverhulme and ESRC doctoral studentships.
 Likewise, our human neuromodulatory equipment, such as transcranial electrical and magnetic
 stimulation, have been upgraded in order to more clearly define functional and contingent
 networks in the brain, often in concert with fMRI. Via the DCI, we also have access to a GE
 DEXA scanner (dual energy X-ray absorptiometry) allowing members to assess bone density,
 important for sports science, developmental and healthy ageing research.
 The department’s strong representation in visual perception research has continued with
 expansion of our eye-tracking resources from 8 (6 x desk-mounted, head-fixed, 2 x head-
 mounted; predominantly 250Hz) to 19 systems, including faster 500-1000Hz head-free systems
 for high temporal resolution tracking with neurological patients; 5 eye-tracking VR headsets (see
 below); 2 pairs of Tobii glasses for eye-tracking during free-movement; and a screen-mounted
 Tobii Pro Fusion for portable work in primate sanctuaries.
 Our new Molecular psychology lab includes facilities for comprehensive in-house hormone
 analysis, gene sequencing, antibody detection and protein expression analysis. Critically, these
 facilities allowed us to bring in our first independent research fellow (Dachtler, Alzheimer’s
 Society) for over a decade, as well as enabling the department’s first molecular-biology outputs
 (Molecular Autism; Disease Models and Mechanisms).
 Our dedicated Behavioural-neuroscience space within the Life Sciences unit includes a modern
 surgery, histology suite, specialist holding rooms, and seven experimental labs housing
 specialist equipment, e.g.: Axona 128-channel electrophysiological systems for chronic
 recording in freely-behaving rodents in real and VR environments (with a new world-leading 2-D
 Virtual Reality system), a water maze, various behavioural assay mazes to test cognitive, social,
 and emotional behaviour, and c.20 Skinner boxes.
 3.3.2 Virtual reality, motion capture and psychophysics
 In 2013 the department had no VR facilities; we now have five VR laboratories, two with full body
 motion tracking, as well as 21 VR headsets for teaching purposes. Our large testing space
 equipped with the Vicon motion capture system is used both for virtual reality studies (e.g.
 children interacting with their own motion-synced mirror-reflection, or navigating/searching virtual
 environments) and for dedicated motion capture (e.g. navigation in blind echolocators). This lab
 was funded through £50K of University start-up funds to Cowie and Nardini in late 2013, with
 collaborative input from Vicon, and has brought in over £3M in external funds, three
 studentships, and supported seven postdocs/RAs. Most recently, the university funded a £85K
 virtual interaction lab with dual Vive VR, PerceptionNeuron full-body motion capture, and clinical-
 grade wireless psychophysiology systems, so that two participants can interact in virtual
 environments, while their physiological responses are monitored. Three other, smaller VR labs
 use Vive systems with head-tracking, to assess single individuals in virtual environments,
 including one system with eye-tracking, funded by strategic university funds and industrial
 collaboration with Channel 4. We also use a 360 camera to capture ecologically valid scenes
 for use in VR environments, and retain our portable psychophysics kit for remote testing of
 participants.




                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.3.3 Specialist testing spaces
 In addition to our existing anechoic rooms for echolocation and sensory-integration research, the
 department significantly upgraded our developmental laboratories to include new digital cameras
 for observation, enhanced computing support in the observation suite, and a dedicated family
 waiting room. We have also retained our developmental lab at Queens Campus to conduct the
 final 18-years follow-up with the Tees Valley Baby Cohort, funded by the ESRC. Finally, we have
 developed two new specialist laboratories for translational research: The Rowan Tree Bar Lab,
 for ecologically valid alcohol consumption studies, and the Channel 4 funded television viewing
 suite, which resembles a sitting room.
 3.3.4 Award-winning technicians
 Our three full time technicians provide programming, electronics and workshop support for staff
 and PGRs. All three joined us in the early stages of their careers and have continuously
 enhanced their skill set as research in the department has expanded in its technological and
 programming complexity. Examples of their work in the current REF period include:
     2-player marble-traps for children in cooperation experiments;
     the bar lab;
     ecologically valid electronic response boards (based on the Batak game) for competitive
        reaction time tasks;
     programming of online implicit attitude tests;
     virtual environments with live avatar tracking, including models which scale to child and
        adult participants;
     multifunctional, portable kinematic recording devices;
     and development of a new tool to assist with implanting microdrives for
        electrophysiological recording in the rat brain. This project was so successful that
        AXONA Ltd wanted to provide their customers with the option to buy this new ‘Long Jig’,
        which is now being used by other departments across the UK.
 The skill and ingenuity of our technical team, and their vital contribution to the research
 environment of the department, was recognised by the BPS Technical Support for Research
 Award 2019.




                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Academic networks and collaboration
 4.1.1 Within the University
 As discussed in Section 1, Research Centres and Institutes facilitate collaborations across the
 department and the university and are critical to our strategy of building interdisciplinarity to
 facilitate impact. Collectively our four Centres incorporate colleagues from Anthropology,
 Biosciences, Computer Sciences, Education, Engineering, Physics, and Sport and Exercise
 Sciences. Likewise, through the Institutes we have formed additional links with English,
 Theology, History, Music, and Sociology; the WRIHW alone consists of 150 fellows across the
 university. Furthermore, our staff support cross-university research through BBSRC and ESRC
 liaison committees. Resulting between-department collaborations include jointly-supervised
 PGRs (25% of those who completed this period) and major grants (e.g. Covey: Co-I with Earth
 Sciences on HIVE; Fernyhough: Wellcome/ICS2-Voices). Of all papers published in the
 department this REF period, one third had multiple Durham authors.
 4.1.2 External networks and meetings
 Our centres also facilitate external networks. DevDis and LAMP in particular include colleagues
 from Newcastle (with a number of jointly-supervised doctoral students supported by ESRC and
 BBSRC), Sunderland and York regionally, as well as departments throughout the UK such as St
 Andrews, Bristol, Edinburgh, Manchester, and Nottingham. Both Centres run regional events
 and draw in distinguished speakers (e.g. 2 Fellows of the Royal Society) with high rates of ECR
 attendance. Other regional academic networks led and/or developed by Durham staff include
 NEURACLIN, North East Autism Research, and the North East Face and Person Perception
 meetings. Finally, staff are able to use Research Committee funds to bring potential
 collaborators to Durham on short-term visits as well as using the IAS and COFUND schemes to
 host longer term visiting fellowships (Table 2/5B.2.1).
 In total, during the assessment period, the department has hosted 8 regional meetings as well
 as 17 national or international meetings including the Experimental Psychology Society, UK
 Williams Syndrome meeting and International Consortium on Hallucination Research. Staff have
 also co-/organised four international conferences and three symposia held overseas.
 Evidence that these networks and meetings support strong collaborations can be seen in the
 high rates of joint publications in this period both within the region and with leading
 universities across the UK (see Figure 6). Indeed, roughly 88% of all papers published this REF
 period have at least one external co-author. Similarly, staff have past and ongoing international
 collaborations with universities across four continents. These collaborations have also attracted
 high profile funding such as from the Templeton Foundation, Leverhulme, and UKRI joint funds
 with the Dutch, German and Japanese research agencies, and have yielded outputs with co-
 authors spread over 43 countries (Figure 6).




                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 4.2 Academic Citizenship and Esteem
 The department supports staff taking on major leadership roles (such as editorships) with credit
 in our workload model and these roles are recognised in our promotions and progression
 system. Our strong contributions in these domains are summarised in Figure 7.
 At the national and international level, Durham staff lead Learned Societies and networks
 such as the European Human Behaviour and Evolution Association (Boothroyd: Vice President),
 the European Brain and Behaviour Society (Easton: council member), the British Psychological
 Society (Crisp: Research Board Deputy Chair; Riby: Developmental Section President Elect),
 the Experimental Psychology Society (McGregor: committee member 2015-18), the North Sea
 Meeting on Brain Asymmetries (Hausmann), the International Consortium on Hallucination
 Research (Fernyhough: steering committee) and are contributing to the development of larger
 scale, more generalisable and reproducible work through the Psychological Science
 Accelerator (Nguyen and former PGR Dutra). Our doctoral students have also led on
 involvement with the UK Reproducibility Network (Reardon).
 Staff likewise hold positions on national panels such as the REF (Crisp; interdisciplinary
 advisor); ESRC (Riby, Crisp), BBSRC and NC3Rs (Easton), and Wellcome (Fernyhough: co-
 opted member) provide extensive grant reviewing services within the UK and abroad (see
 Figure 7).
 J Theoretical Social Psychology was founded by Head of Department Crisp and over half our
 staff (vs 1/3 in 2013) have held editor and editorial board roles on 26 journals (see Figure 7),
 including flagship specialist outlets such as Animal Behaviour, J Experimental Psychology and J
 Social & Personality Psychology and guest editing issues/topics in leading journals such as
 PNAS.




                                                                                          Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 The contribution of our scholars to broader academic research has been recognised through
 prestigious prizes and fellowships such as
        the Canadian Institute for Advanced Research Senior Fellow award (Kentridge);
        the German Hector Fellow Academy speakers award (Olkkonen);
        Early Career Award by the International Society for Behavioural Medicine (Vasiljevic);
        BPS William Inman Prize (Lane & Smith);
        the BPS Developmental Section Margaret Donaldson Award (Riby);
        the BPS Forensic Division Award for Distinguished Contributions to Academic
         Knowledge in Forensic Psychology (Towl);
        the BPS Social Division Early Career Researcher award (Van de Vyver);
        the BPS Book prize (Towl);
        the BPS President's Awards for Distinguished Contributions to Psychological Knowledge
         (Crisp) and Psychology in Practice (Towl).
 4.3 Stakeholders and the wider society
 4.3.1 Stakeholder involvement
 As summarised in Figure 8, we have strong links to stakeholders both within the UK and
 internationally which result in real-world impacts of our research. These include:
 -   patient and public involvement (PPI), with particular strength in this respect on stroke
     (Ellison, Lane), blindness through Thaler’s work on echolocation, voice hearing (Alderson-
     Day, Fernyhough, ICS2-Voices), and Autism and Williams Syndrome (Hanley, Riby);
 -   clinical partners, with particular representation on: dementia through networks led by
     Datchler & Lever; stroke and voice hearing (Alderson-Day, Ellison, Fernyhough, Lane; see
     ICSs); prenatal medicine (Reissland), and developmental disorders (Hanley, Riby);
 -   policy makers (Boothroyd: evidence to select committees on body image, Crisp, Easton,
     Leite and Van de Vyver: reports and consultation on social integration and diversity for

                                                                                          Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     regional, UK and UN audiences including Arts Council England; Leite: consultation on
     international development funding; Towl: Office for Students, Harris Report on Prison
     Suicide, member of the Health and Care Professions Council; Vasiljevic: evidence for
     government and UN on food/alcohol labelling and sustainability.)
 -   and industrial, commercial or service partners both in terms of consultancy (see Figure
     5) and ongoing collaborations (e.g. Cowie: VICON; Ellison: Channel 4; Fernyhough: Ninja
     Theory; Kentridge: P&G; Lever: European Space Agency; Towl: HM Prison Service).




 Figure 8. Summary of stakeholder collaborations/networks and resulting translational outcomes.
 Starred items feature in an ICS.
 As discussed (5B.1.4.3), these relationships have been strategically supported and
 developed through: our Research Centres and Institutes; our regional networks above; by direct
 introductions made by the University’s dedicated Impact development team (including expertise
 on policy and commercial relationships); and through institutional networks such as N8 and the
 Northern Health Sciences Alliance where department staff have leadership roles. We recently



                                                                                         Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 appointed Nicola Wilson, deputy CEO of NHSA as a Professor in Practice, bringing her
 experience as a multiplier in research networks including HEIs, NHS trusts and business.
 The department has hosted a number of events for public and professional stakeholders; for
 instance, 30 Educational Psychologists and 150 families of children with Williams Syndrome
 have attended workshops led by Riby, while DevDis public lectures with distinguished speakers
 on developmental disorders attract up to 180 delegates at a time. Similarly, NEURACLIN and
 DurhamAgainstDementia meetings typically host 5-10 clinicians from the region, and 30 industry
 and government representatives attended a 2019 Behavioural Science Showcase event. Over
 70 practitioners have attended training at Durham on voice hearing led by Alderson-Day, and a
 mixed audience of 200 attended a public launch event for online materials on voice hearing (see
 ICS2-Voices).
 As discussed in Section 1 and below, these relationships facilitate the development of
 meaningful impacts based on well-targeted empirical evidence. Stakeholders also enhance
 the research base in the department through both direct provision of resource (e.g. Channel 4,
 VICON and P&G have funded researchers and/or facilities; see Section 2) and by being critical
 contributors to collaborative funding applications and research-led practical outputs. For
 instance, the ICS2-Voices team and funding was built with stakeholders, as was: Boothroyd’s
 Wellcome Seed award on eating disorder prevention in rapidly developing countries; and Lever’s
 work on cognitive function tests for both early Alzheimer’s detection (sponsored by the
 Australian Alzheimer’s Research Foundation), and in long-term astronauts (funded by ESA).
 4.3.2 Impacts
 These relationships have resulted in standout impacts discussed in our Case Studies, which
 have changed, and indeed saved, the lives of highly vulnerable populations (prisoners, stroke
 survivors, voice hearers and those with psychosis). However, our strategic approach to
 seeding impact across all research groups and interdisciplinary research centres
 (5B.1.3.3) has increased staff participation in these activities; 18 members of staff reported
 impact related activity in the assessment period. This has resulted in a number of policy reports
 and translational outputs (see Figure 8) and impacts across a wide range of domains. For
 instance:
 -   We have created multiple successful interventions and treatments in clinical practice
     and beyond. The MUSE CBT package developed in ICS2-Voices has helped over 300
     patients with psychosis in just the two years since launch and was awarded second place in
     the Digital Innovation in Health and Social Care category of the NHS’s Bright Ideas in Health
     Awards 2019. Over 2250 stroke patients are using our DREX app to regain function through
     visual attention training (ICS1-DREX), while 104 visual impairment professionals across the
     UK are now supporting blind clients to increase their mobility through echolocation training
     (Thaler). We are also shaping clinical decisions, through early detection of dementia
     (Lever: 200 patients in clinical trials) and reduction in unnecessary pain medications (Ellison:
     Gabapentin and Opioid Tapering Tool).
 -   We have informed institutional practices with regard to, for example, sexual violence
     prevention (Towl: universities), dissemination of new practices within organisations (Ellison:
     the RAF, Channel 4 and Virgin Trains), advertising (Channel 4), improved implicit bias
     training (Crisp/Marcinko) and underwriting of catastrophe risk (Weick: MSAmlin). Towl’s
     work with HM Prison Service has led to policy and training changes and a sustained
     reduction in lost lives (ICS3-PrisonSuicide). We have also influenced policy on: the use of
     cultural products/production in improving social integration at Arts Council England (10
     Year Strategy), the Equality and Human Rights Commission, the AHRC, OFSTED, and the
     Department for Digital, Culture, Media, and Sport (Van de Vyver, Easton, Crisp); and
     international aid through the Independent Commission for Aid Impact (Leite).
 -   We are supporting animal welfare in research by advising advocacy groups (Ellison) and
     developing and commercialising products to reduce animal numbers and improve reliability
     and reproducibility in behavioural neuroscience laboratories (Easton); to date this new
     equipment is being used in laboratories across 10 UK universities. Clay’s role as scientific


                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     consultant at Lola y Bonobo has led to improvements in surrogacy care for orphan primates
     and re-introduction programmes.
 -   We are helping parents of, and individuals with, developmental disorders such as Williams
     Syndrome to live more safely and deal with anxiety, with internationally distributed parent
     and carers guides (Hanley/Riby).
 4.3.3 Public dissemination
 All of our work serves to deepen public understanding of human behaviour, increasing
 acceptance of psychological conditions and those who bear them. We use a variety of outlets to
 help this process including:
 -   Creation of cultural products: staff have written six popular psychology books (e.g. on
     pain, diversity, suicide, headaches, and voice hearing), contributed to PBS and BBC
     documentaries (consulting or featured scientists: Boothroyd, Clay, Ihssen, Van de Vyver),
     and in the case of ICS2-Voices, over a million people purchasing and playing the BAFTA-
     winning game Hellblade: Senua’s Sacrifice have been educated about the experiences of
     voice hearers.
 -   Working with dissemination and creative bodies such as Colour Collective (Olkkonen),
     and widespread involvement with ‘Pint of Science’, The Conversation, and Café Scientifique.
 -   Interviews with a wide range of national and international print, radio and tv media.
 -   Public lectures, seminars, talks and stand-up routines to a variety of audiences (school
     children, teenagers, expectant parents, Synod of Bishops) including high profile events such
     as the Cheltenham Science Festival, Hay Festival (Clay) and at major venues such as the
     Natural History Museum.
 -   We have particular success in large-scale public events. Through our involvement in
     Celebrate Science in school holidays, we have reached over 6000 visitors a year, while the
     ICS2-Voices team brought a further 6000 visitors to the Hearing Voices exhibition, and 730
     to associated events, with over 7000 visitors to online material on understanding voices.
 Collectively, these efforts have helped inform lay audiences of important perspectives across the
 full range of our expertise including animal welfare, dementia, developmental disorders, eating
 disorders, social integration, stroke, visual perception, voice hearing and psychosis and sexual
 violence and suicide.




                                                                                             Page 23
