   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



Institution: Lancaster University

Unit of assessment: 21 - Sociology

Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Context
Lancaster Sociology Department has been producing leading edge social scientific research for over
50 years. We are a research community driven by deepening understanding of, and finding solutions
to, the central global social problems of our age, from poverty to climate change. We have developed
innovative theories and methods, and consistently produce research which has real world impacts
through deep engagement with research participants, beneficiaries and publics. We work
collaboratively with colleagues in STEM, health and medicine, and arts and humanities disciplines,
with a significant proportion of our research awards (70%) involving social science research as part of
larger national and international, transdisciplinary endeavours.
All of our academic staff are research active, and all lecturing staff have been included in this REF
submission. From August 2013–July 2020, staff submitted 261 proposals leading to 92 external
research grants with a value of £10.6M; supervised 88 PhDs to completion (administered by the
department, with a further 35 co-supervised across the institution); and produced over 330 peer-
reviewed international journal articles, 150+ book chapters, 15 special issues of journals and 66
books (an annual 30% increase in outputs since 2014). The department held its place in the top 100
global QS rankings for Sociology throughout the period.
Strategic aims from 2014-2021
The eight areas identified for strategic development in REF 2014 have provided a robust context for
research development:
    The social practices of security, large-scale emergency management and informatics,
     privacy and surveillance in crisis, use of social media (projects include BRIDGE and SeCinCor
     in Lancaster’s Centre for Mobilities Research (CeMoRe), Trusted Autonomous Systems and
     Online Child Sexual Victimisation in Security Lancaster Institute (SL)).
    Social research in climate change and geo-engineering exploring low carbon/sustainable
     practices and economies and varied ‘framings’ of climate change/energy insecurity (EPSRC
     Dynamics of Energy, Mobility and Demand (DEMAND) Centre, N8 Agrifood Resilience
     Programme and Holistic Decision-support Systems for Organic Slurry in CSS).
    The implications of databasing and digitization in the context of ‘big data’, realised
     through ground-breaking data linkage research (Nuffield Family Justice Observatory and the
     work of Child and Family Justice Centre and the Data Science Institute (DSI), bringing a
     critical social science perspective to wearable data in STS and data as value in CASEI).
    Changing patterns of health and medical innovation, developing further EU and Intel-
     funded research, Genomics and Personalized Medicine (STS), with the Health Innovation
     Campus, which opened in 2020.
    Citizenship and migration, including nationalisms, borders, racisms, inequalities, social
     justice, and human rights, pursued by the ‘migrancy research group’ through CASEI and
     CeMoRe.
    The social science of contemporary East Asia and especially Hong Kong and China,
     and the focus of collaboration with the University’s China Centre, established in 2018, which
     provides an international platform to tackle global challenges through multi-disciplinary China
     expertise.




                                                                                                1
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    Investigating transformations in mobility systems (transport, online, tourism, migration,
     data, urban) and their intersections, informing policy and effecting change in the context of
     climate crisis (CeMoRe).
    Developing new social theoretical and political economy approaches, including gender
     political economy, racial capitalism, the financial crisis, the restructuring of social policy and
     welfare practices in the context of austerity (CCFJ, CASEI, CGWS).

1.2 A Research Structure Designed for Impact
These strategic areas were supported by a matrix research structure that integrates 4 challenge
themes across 7 research centres and 3 University research institutes (see Fig. 1) to enhance income
generation, impact and capacity building. The four themes reflect global social challenges as strategic
research priorities and the contributions to alternatives that can be generated through social theory.
These are Science and Technology, Environment, Mobilities; Global Inequalities and Social
Justice; Advancing Social, Economic, and Political Theory; and Media, culture and social
change.
Challenge 1: Science and Technology, Environment, Mobilities is driven by empirical studies and
civil society collaborations, to advance understanding of contemporary re-configurations of nature,
culture, economy, publics, politics, technology and everyday practice in the context of climate crisis.
Research foci include:
    Mobility transformations and decarbonization, liveable cities, social futures, the Anthropocene
     and planetary sociology (BÜSCHER, DEVILLE, FERNANDEZ ARRIGOITIA, Kerasidou,
     SPURLING, SZERSZYNSKI, Urry).
    Innovations and applications of social practice theory in energy demand (SCHATZKI, SHOVE,
     BLUE, HUI, SPURLING).
    Resilience and disaster risk governance (BÜSCHER, MORT).
    Climate change, food and food security, biomedicine, pollution, geo-engineering, collective
     forms of environmental governance, degrowth, and the limits of the Green New Deal
     (JESSOP, SZERSZYNSKI, Tutton, WATERTON).
    Theoretical and methodological developments in science and technology studies and feminist
     technoscience (MORT, Mackenzie, Roberts, SINGLETON, SUCHMAN), Techno- and digital
     ethics, theory and methods (BÜSCHER, DEVILLE, SPURLING).
    Critical Security Studies, hacking social practices, socio-technical aspects of autonomous
     systems and military technologies (Fish, DEVILLE, MAY-CHAHAL, MAXIGAS, SUCHMAN).

Challenge 2: Global Inequalities and Social Justice reflects a funded strategic focus, supported by
the University with 8 new appointments in 2019. Research focuses on the causes of inequality in
terms of economies and states of the world as well as migration flows, marginalization and other
sources of social injustices. Work includes:
    The bases and dynamics of class relations, their intersection with gender-based and other
     forms of inequalities, and their individual and interactive effects on economic, political, and
     social flourishing and suffering (FLEDDERJOHANN, GROVER, SAYER, SKEGGS, Walby).
    Childhood and family injustices, abuse and human rights violations (Bedston, Alrouh,
     BROADHURST, HU, KELLY, LEIGH, MASON, MAY-CHAHAL, MORRISS, SIRRIYEH).
    Dynamics of increasing inequalities of wealth, income and mobilities, especially in an age of
     enduring austerity, intersectionalities of gendered, racial, able-ist and ageist inequalities,
     marginalization and stigmatization (DOEBLER, FLEDDERJOHANN, GROVER, HU, JENSEN,
     JESSOP, MORGAN, SAYER, SKEGGS, SPURLING, TYLER).




                                                                                                  2
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    Immigration, border regimes, and the challenges of gaining recognition as citizens (FORTIER,
     KOSTKA, LONERGAN, SIRRIYEH, TYLER).
    Analyses of media representations of inequality and their relationship to social change and
     austerity (TYLER, JENSEN, WOOD, GUSTCHE, SKEGGS, FRASER, LI).

Challenge 3: Advancing Social, Economic, and Political Theory combines philosophical,
theoretical and meta-theoretical work, with a focus on developments in political economy and social
theory:
    Cultural political economy, moral economy, financialization and debt (COIN, JESSOP,
     SAYER); fiscal sociology and welfare restructuring, crisis dynamics, and the emergence of an
     enduring state of austerity (COIN, DEVILLE, GROVER, JESSOP, TYLER, Walby).
     governance and governmentality, including biopolitics and states of emergency (DIKEN,
     JESSOP, TYLER); neoliberalization (JESSOP, FORTIER, GROVER, SAYER); Racial
     Capitalism (COIN, TYLER); territoriality, socio-spatiality, urban theory, futures, and cities
     (FERNANDEZ-ARRIGOITA, FRASER, JESSOP, SAYER, Urry).
    The philosophy of social science and critical realism (JESSOP, SAYER, SCHATZKI);
     developments in critical theory and the sociology of critique (DIKEN, SAYER); contemporary
     radical philosophy and political thought, including the intersection of religion, politics, and
     economics (DIKEN).

Challenge 4. Media, culture and social change
Research focuses on the dynamics of media and cultural production and social change, through
research on practices, publics, infrastructures, economics, politics, technologies, often focused on
issues of inequality and symbolic power.
Key research comprises:
    Media, publics and engagement (BÜSCHER, CRONIN, FERREDAY, Fish, GILLOCH,
     GUTSCHE, LI, MICHIELSE, SKEGGS, WOOD) including audiences and popular culture;
     digital media cultures and online communities; screen and visual cultures; propaganda, public
     relations and news cultures; television and society; mediated democratic formations.
    Cultural politics and cultural theory (CRONIN, DIKEN, FERREDAY, FORTIER, GILLOCH,
     GUTSCHE, JENSEN, LI, SKEGGS, SUCHMAN, WOOD) including power relations and
     cultural change; cultural studies; inequalities, identities and feminisms; nationality and
     citizenship.
    Media technologies, infrastructures and practices (BÜSCHER, Fish, FRASER, Mackenzie,
     MICHIELSE) including human-computer interaction and gaming; networked communication
     technologies; music practice.

Research Centre strategic role
Seven research centres progress the department’s research and impact strategy. Members nurture
communities of interest that engage with the challenge themes through their respective areas of
research and scholarship. Centres serve as a mechanism to:
    Connect researchers at all stages of their careers including PhD and MA students, with
     international visitors and networks.
    Collaborate and reach outside the department to exchange sociological contributions and
     learn from other disciplines in interdisciplinary research.
    Conduct empirical studies and theoretical work, promote methodological development and
     capacity building, strengthen research critical skills, and grow new areas in Sociology.



                                                                                                 3
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    Catalyse impact through engagement with publics and institutions, providing a focus for
     external relations and opportunities for knowledge exchange.




Figure 1: Research Centres and Challenges

Centres are dynamic and change over time as funding streams alter and new challenges emerge. For
example, the EPSRC-funded DEMAND Centre undertook a managed closure in 2019 with
researchers (SHOVE, BLUE, SPURLING) developing new projects, such as the EPSRC-funded
DecarboN8 network through CeMoRe (BÜSCHER, SPURLING), the multi-institutional UKRI Centre
for Research into Energy Demand Solutions (SHOVE, BLUE), and founding a School of Practice
Theory at Lancaster (SHOVE, BLUE, HUI, SPURLING, SHATSKI). At the same time, SKEGGS
joined the department to lead a new Centre (CASEI) with TYLER, taking forward the department’s
aim to address the significant global challenge of inequalities. This strategically driven structure




                                                                                               4
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


provides a flexible environment that is responsive to change whilst sustaining international,
interdisciplinary relationships and networks for the future. Centres working across the next period are:
The Centre for Child and Family Justice (BROADHURST (Director), HU, KELLY, LEIGH, MAY-
CHAHAL, MASON, MORRISS). Co-directed with Harwin (Law) and hosted by Sociology and the
Lancaster Law School, CCFJ collaborates closely with Lancaster’s Data Science Institute and brings
together academics, practitioners and policy makers, through cutting-edge research that focuses on
improving the formal operation of family justice systems to benefit children and families. Researchers
use innovative data linkage methodologies to connect administrative and survey datasets for
population-wide analyses, complemented by novel qualitative, text-mining and visual methods.
Projects include establishing a Family Justice Observatory with the Nuffield Foundation, and research
on new initiatives (such as the Family Drug and Alcohol Courts) with £4.2M Grant income from the
Department of Education, Department of Health, ESRC, AHRC, the Nuffield Foundation, British
Academy, and EU.
The Centre for Disability Research (CeDR) (GROVER, MORGAN (Director), DOEBLER) promotes
and co-produces research on disability, disableism, and ableism. The Centre is the hub for a network
of staff and students across diverse disciplines in the social sciences and humanities, science and
technology, management, and health and medicine. Associate members include independent
researchers, disability activists, practitioners and colleagues from universities, organizations, and
groups, regionally, nationally and internationally, such as local authorities like Bradford and
Calderdale, user-led organisations like Vision Sense, Bradford Talking Media and the Participatory
Autism Research Collective (PARC) and the Nordic Network on Disability Research. CeDR co-
designs and disseminates research with disabled people, practitioners and policymakers to provide
research that is accessible and useable. International visitors are regularly hosted, and income
(£280,415) is generated through research and a biennial international conference that attracts
disability activists from across the world. Between 250-300 attend each event with representation
from 26 countries, primarily UK/Ireland and the Nordic countries but also mainland Europe, Turkey,
Israel, Korea, Canada, USA, Australia, NZ, South Africa.
The Centre for Gender and Women’s Studies (CGWS) (CRONIN, FERNANDEZ ARRIGOITIA,
FERREDAY (Director), FORTIER, HU, LI, SINGLETON, SKEGGS, WOOD) is one of the UK’s largest
centres in gender studies and the only such centre in the North West of England. The Centre is an
interdisciplinary hub for teaching and research across the university, and in the wider region, holding
regular community events, such as a Feminist Movie Night, alongside research events and
workshops, and an annual summer school (open to students from across the world). Funders include
the European Commission, ESRC, Leverhulme, and the British Academy. Since 2014 members have
received almost £1M in grants and published over 80 journal articles, 20 books, 6 special issues and
52 chapters.
The Centre for Mobilities Research (CeMoRe) (BÜSCHER, DEVILLE, FORTIER, HU, HUI,
SPURLING (Director), SZERSZYNSKI) researches how mobility systems (in transport, migration,
tourism, data, food, biota, finance, healthcare) interconnect and shape unequal and unsustainable
societal realities. Founded in 2003 by Urry and Sheller, who initiated the new mobilities paradigm
(NMP), CeMoRe is now the hub for a Global Mobilities Network with >40 research organisations from
28 countries and over 1000 members. The centre has attracted >50 international visiting PhDs and
researchers, some staying for several months to build formal collaboration agreements (e.g. Sao
Paulo, Padua, Konkuk, South Korea). It disseminates empirical insight, theories and methodologies
through a co-ordinated publication strategy which includes hosting the Mobilities journal, 5
international conferences, and >50 workshops and seminars during the assessment period. CeMoRe
received £1.9M EU, EPSRC and ESRC funding during the period.
Centre for Science Studies (CSS) (DEVILLE, Mackenzie, MAXIGAS, MORT, Roberts, SINGLETON
(Director), SUCHMAN, Tutton). CSS conducts research in social studies of science and technology. It
has 11 cross-Faculty Board members. A wide range of theoretical approaches cover four main areas:
(1) Health, technology and medicine; (2) Data cultures; (3) Energy and environments, including waste
management; and (4) Disasters and futures. CSS hosted the largest ever conference of the European



                                                                                                 5
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Association for the Study of Science and Technology at Lancaster in 2018 (950 delegates from 15
countries). The work of this active community of Feminist Technoscience Scholars includes research
on compassion in clinical practice, living with dying (palliative care), Gynaecological Cancer
Narratives (SINGLETON), and the EC Horizon 2020 project, CUIDAR: Cultures of Disaster Resilience
among children and young people (MORT - see Impact Case Studies). Since 2014 core members
have won external funding of £3M +, organised at least 15 workshops and conferences, published 74
journal articles, 3 Special Issues, 4 books and 22 book chapters.
The Centre for the Study of Environmental Change (CSEC) explores the sociological and cultural
dimensions of contemporary environmental issues. Core members WATERTON (Director) and
SZERSZYNSKI collaborate with researchers in the Faculties of Science and Technology and in
Health and Medicine. CSEC has extensive, active links to research centres and networks across
Europe and globally. Four key themes are: (1) doing nature-cultures; (2) the sociology and political
economy of socio-environmental systems; (3) nature and technology; and (4) environmental
knowledge and innovation. Activity since 2014 includes 13 international research workshops; 14
research grants (totalling £1.4M); 32 journal articles, books and special issues. Funding has
supported sociological research on issues such as the resilience of the agri-food system; planetary
rings; the density of buildings; local food hubs; innovations in geoengineering; agricultural
metabolisms; and nutrient infrastructures and flows (SLURRY MAX).
The Centre for Alternatives to Economic and Social Inequality (CAESI) was established in 2019
under the directorship of SKEGGS, to engage with publics, practitioners and policymakers to provide
meaningful alternatives to social and economic inequalities. Stigma and power are key themes of
TYLER’s research with two monographs published. SKEGGS’ recent work has shown how values are
integral to any understanding of value, using software and financial tracking of care to reveal how
debt is central to our financialised future. Funded research (£1.3M) has come from the British
Academy (FORTIER), ESRC (SKEGGS), the EU (KOSTKA) and Leverhulme (FORTIER, TYLER).
The Cultural Political Economy Research Centre (CPERC, co-directed by JESSOP), has recently
been incorporated into CAESI. This will take forward cultural political economy as a trans- and post-
disciplinary research paradigm to contribute to CAESI’s intellectual project. TYLER leads a Social
Action Research Group, compromised of both academic and community researchers, NHS staff and
community activists, focused on engagement and co-production/co-design.

University Research Institutes

Sociology researchers work closely with, and benefit from, institutional investment in the cross-
university interdisciplinary research institutes and Centres (see institutional statement). For example,
MAY-CHAHAL co-directs Security Lancaster, crossing 11 departments with 200+ members and home
to 3 major national/EU research centres and 3 industry accelerators, collectively worth over £20M.
BROADHURST is Society Theme Lead in the Data Science Institute (DSI) with HU appointed as a
joint Sociology/DSI Anniversary Lecturer. DSI has over 300 members from 18 departments with an
income of £9.9M. Social Futures (ISF, co-founded by Urry) BRAUN co-director and BÜSCHER as
Associate Director now has 40+ members from 14 departments and an income of £2.7M. SPURLING,
DEVILLE and FERNANDEZ-ARRAGOITA were appointed as joint Anniversary Lecturers, and ISF
Fellowships went to SZERSZYNSKI (2018), and MORRISS and GUTSCHE (2020).
Across centres and institutes impact is ensured through:
    Focusing on sources of social injustice
    Challenging and changing discourses
    Platforming marginalized voices
    Working with publics to co-design change
    Anticipating and addressing (often unintended) consequences of policy and practice.




                                                                                                6
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The wider beneficiaries of such work include diverse publics, organisations and industries, from
individuals and local communities, schools, charities and major NGOs; policymakers, government and
public sector institutions; and industry and commerce (see section 4 for detail). The Department
provides time and resources for researchers to engage with stakeholders and develop impact at local,
national and international levels, including:
    Leading a £1M ESRC Impact Acceleration Account for seed, growth and joint funding.
    Facilitating access to seed-corn funds from the department, Faculty, Institutes and University.
    Incorporating impact and engagement as criteria for staff development and promotion.
    Encouraging staff to participate in university-level and external workshops, courses and
     meetings on pathways to impact.
    Providing workload relief for staff who do public-facing work.
    Experimenting with methodologies and sharing best practice through knowledge exchange
     activities, such as workshops, impact cafés, and the ESRC Festival of Social Science.

Alongside the many impacts outlined in Section 4, our four impact case studies showcase how this
strategic approach manifests:
    Child Removal maps multiple impacts that have arisen through a programme of data linkage
     using family justice data (2014-2020), focused on parental pathways through family courts,
     which has led to a fundamental re-think of State obligations to parents whose children have
     been removed through court order (BROADHURST), in no small part through the platforming
     of voices from marginalized women.
    From Victims to Actors: shifting the policy paradigm in flood and disaster resilience
     details how MORT’s team’s prizewinning science and technology studies research, and
     games for playful engagement with the consequences of floods, platformed the unheard
     voices of children and resulted in clear national and international shifts in disaster and
     emergency management policy and practice.
    Transforming Mobility Systems evidences how the new mobilities paradigm and creative
     methods for co-design pioneered at CeMoRe have transformed how policymakers, technology
     developers, organizations, and communities understand, shape and decarbonise mobilities,
     working towards sustainable and ethical societies (BÜSCHER, SPURLING).
    New Beginnings working with the maternal commons to co-design social care interventions
     (LEIGH, TYLER) that keep families together; improve confidence through peer mentoring;
     improve access to justice and other opportunities such as employment and education, saving
     the supporting local authority almost £2M.

Future strategic aims and goals for research, engagement and impact
Rich conversations around our research strategy at whole department away days has led to a
decision to consolidate, strengthen and deepen our research in two pressing global social problem
priorities for the next five years. We have taken the impact of the covid-19 pandemic into
consideration when constructing this strategy, embedding this into our future research activities.
    Alternatives to Social inequality: to step up our critical research on understanding why
     inequalities are increasing in multiple social spheres (regional, national, international) and in
     many forms (economic, class, gendered, disabilities, ethnic and racial), and to co-design and
     make alternatives to social inequalities – through practical, policy and theoretical research.
     This challenge draws together existing expertise from across the department and its research
     centres and will involve leading interdisciplinary research bids and initiatives. CASEI will be
     the umbrella/hub for this research challenge, drawing on well-established local, regional,
     national and international networks, and the established expertise of the Centre for Gender



                                                                                                7
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       and Women’s Studies (CGWS), the Centre for Disability Research (CEDR), the Centre for
       Child and Family Justice (CJFJ), and working collaboratively with Data Science Institute,
       Security Lancaster, the Health Innovation Campus, the arts and humanities, and deepening
       work with community groups, charities, NGO’s and government agencies.
    Alternatives to Climate Emergency: to step up our leading-edge research on the social
     impacts of climate change, and to work collaboratively with STEM colleagues on the
     production of alternatives to high-carbon societies, including transport systems, heating,
     housing, and bio-security threats (such as Covid). This challenge draws together significant
     research expertise from across the Department and its research centres and will involve
     leading interdisciplinary research bids and initiatives. CeMoRe will be the umbrella centre/hub
     for this research challenge, drawing on well-established global networks, and the new social
     practice theory school. It builds on the DEMAND centre legacy, working collaboratively with
     the Centre for the Study of Environmental Change (CSEC), the Centre for Science Studies
     (CSS), Lancaster Environment Centre, Energy Lancaster, the Political Ecology group, the
     Pentland Centre for Sustainability in Business, DSI, ISF and SL Institutes. We will scale up our
     work with external agencies, including the Environment Agency, Eden North, government,
     NGOs, and social movements concerned with climate emergency.

This intellectual and methodological commitment to developing alternatives in the two challenge
themes will be achieved and embedded through a whole Department focus on Impact, Engagement,
Communication, Development and Research
    Impact: To strengthen structures and leadership for an effective interdisciplinary impact
     culture by maximizing the benefit of the ESRC Impact Acceleration Account, implementing
     consistent systems for critical peer review support to design and build impact into research
     activities, learning from existing good practice.
    Engagement: To scale up research engagement, helping all colleagues to access resources
     to support research with and within communities and organisations on regional, national,
     global scales. To foreground engagement as a key element in the production of alternatives to
     social problems through a renewed focus on engaged research methods and the co-
     production of knowledge.
    Communication: Drawing on the expertise of our media specialists to prioritise the
     communication of research findings, and the role of digital, media and other communication
     systems in shaping public understanding.
    Research Development: To further develop excellence in doctoral training and research
     through collaboration and pathway leadership within the DTCs; new research methods training
     for all staff as digital methodologies evolve; sustaining our excellent performance in achieving
     PGR funding from DTCs (over £2M since 2013), foundations, charitable trusts and employers,
     and the strategic use of University bursaries and scholarships.
    Capacity Building: Embedding the focus on alternatives to inequality, climate emergency,
      and engagement into PGR recruitment and training (e.g., PGT modules/programmes in Global
      Social Policy, Global Media and Social Inequalities). Integrating the challenge themes in
      international teaching and research collaborations, building on existing memorandums of
      collaboration with universities in Korea, China, Brazil and Italy, and working with schools and
      community groups to shape educational provision.
Section 2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy
Our staffing strategy is underpinned by three guiding principles:
    To develop and support a vibrant intellectual culture, promoting intellectual freedom around
     strategic thematic areas.



                                                                                              8
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    To provide opportunity for developing new research areas, allowing us to capitalize on
     innovation within the discipline and related fields.
    Ensuring staff well-being and equality.

Of 54 academic staff, all those employed on indefinite contracts have been returned (41 Category A),
with roles that comprise teaching, research, and service. One member of indefinite staff is a Senior
Teaching Fellow, supporting Social Work. 12 have Fixed-Term Contracts (4 are Category A), working
as RA’s or providing time-limited support for funded research and teaching commitments. Growth and
change invigorate the department’s research. 2-3 staff leave each year and posts are normally
retained, leading to continual renewal. 2018 was unusual as 9 colleagues left (Brexit concerns being
a key reason), providing a unique opportunity for strategic expansion in the transdisciplinary
challenge themes.
The department is committed to proactive management of personal and disciplinary development.
Key strategic appointments (SKEGGS, WOOD) in 2019 continued growth across the period, including
the appointment of 5 Anniversary Lecturers (see Institutional Statement) (BLUE, DEVILLE,
FERNANDEZ ARRIGOITIA, HU, SPURLING supported through DEMAND, DSI and ISF), 9 new
ECRs (COIN, FLEDDERJOHANN, FRASER, GUTSCHE, LI, MAXIGAS, Meissner, MICHIELSE,
Towers) and 10 Post-Doctoral Scholars. The age structure and a strong culture of collegiality
promotes intergenerational support and succession planning (see Figure 2).

2.2 Career development support and the implementation of the Concordat is supported through:
    The department management structure, designed to facilitate sustainability, vitality and
     collegiality. Clearly defined structure and roles offer all staff the opportunity to carry out
     leadership roles and develop leadership skills (a key University promotion criterion). Larger
     administrative roles, sitting on a core leadership team, are held for three-years and all staff are
     invited to apply with a statement on their vision.
    The Department Staffing Committee (chaired by the Deputy HOD) reviews and mentors
     promotion applications, and monitors for EDI. We have implemented an annual review of all
     staff for readiness for promotion and run an annual workshop for all staff about the University
     process and routes to promotion. Individuals get advice on promotion in their Performance
     Development Reviews (PDRs). There are four routes to promotion: excellence in research,
     with impact within and/or beyond academic circles; excellence in teaching with impact beyond
     the university; engagement with business, government, civil society, and the wider community;
     and a balanced route that gives equal weight to research, teaching, and engagement. 25 staff
     were successfully promoted during the period (5 to Grade 8, 5 to SL, 14 to Reader or Chair
     and 1 to Band 2 Chair).
    Fellowship applications are encouraged and supported, across all career stages. The
     research director, academic mentors, and staff with expertise in cognate areas collaborate
     with the Research Services Office (RSO) and individual staff to develop these opportunities.
     Along with successful Leverhulme (Fish, FORTIER, TYLER) and ESRC Fellowships
     (JESSOP). Successful Early Career Researcher (ECR) applications include
     FLEDDERJOHANN who was awarded a UKRI Future Leaders 2020-24 and a GCRF early
     career grant, 2019.
    Mentoring of research applications from the initial stages is the norm and internal peer review
     prior to submission is mandatory. Regular grant writing workshops are held within the
     Department.
    An ECR Group meets regularly, providing a forum for support, knowledge sharing and
     encouragement to undertake CPD.
    ECRs, PDRAs and PGRs are integrated into research centres and encouraged to develop
     initiatives that resonate with their individual ambition. The Department has a strong track



                                                                                                9
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       record in developing and retaining FTC staff, with many moving into academic positions at
       Lancaster, other universities in the UK and abroad (e.g., Clancy, BLUE, SPURLING, HUI,
       Petersen, Kerasidou, Becklake, Liegl, Oliphant, Escalante).
    FTC staff are provided equal conditions of service (mentoring support, access to research
     funds, protected research time) to support career development. The University has recently
     reviewed its FTC policy to reduce precarity for researchers on FTCs.
    Sabbatical leave can be applied for after 7 terms of service with specific terms negotiated with
     HoD and the faculty. 32 staff between August 2013 and July 2020 have taken 48 sabbaticals.
    The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers is fully supported with
     bridging funding secured wherever possible to promote continuity of employment.
    Staff training needs are identified annually and discussed as part of staff mentoring and in
     PDRs, where objectives and goals are agreed. Training is provided by the university including
     on leadership; researcher development; data management and personal effectiveness. All
     staff complete mandatory training in diversity, information security and health and safety.
    Robust procedures and processes around safeguarding, mental health and duty of care in
     research are in place and we have worked with the university to make more resources
     available for all staff in these areas, contributing directly to the Safeguarding in Research
     policy.
    A staff well-being programme that extends from access to the Employment Assistance
     Programme (EAP) includes regular informal coffee and lunch events, walking groups, sports,
     and our widely praised (and copied!) #facesofsociology online digital project that celebrates
     the diversity of our staff body. During the COVID pandemic, staff well-being has been
     particularly foregrounded and supported through use of individual peer support and mentoring,
     regular online social events, supporting flexible working, targeted workload relief for staff with
     caring responsibilities, clear and robust guidance on online working, including 7am-7pm
     weekday email policy. Off-campus working has also been supported by provision of equipment
     to enable staff to work comfortably and effectively from home.
    An hours/points workload model that is clear and transparent. Annual allocation is regularly
     reviewed, accessible to all staff, and analysed to identify inequalities.
The Department fed into and supports the Institutional REF code of practice and has informed staff at
Departmental meetings and in PDRs that data for inclusion/non-inclusion in REF is not used in any
performance management procedures. A REF Review Group of 4 staff (2 males and 2 females,
representing the disciplinary mix of the department) has selected outputs focused on valuing the
diverse contributions of all staff. An internal equality impact audit shows that 62% of outputs were
authored by women, 9% by BAME staff and 29% by ECR. The University’s Code of Practice,
following REF EDAP guidance, has defined eligibility.

2.3 Post-Graduate Research (PGR) students
The Department has a thriving post-graduate community, populated by 163 UK, EU and International
students (full-time, part-time and visiting) over the period. All are members of Graduate College which
provides accommodation, well-being support where required, and fosters a PGR community ethos.
Within the Department two Doctoral Directors oversee PGR recruitment, admissions and support over
the lifetime of the student’s journey. The Sociology Department has access to two regional Doctoral
Training Partnerships (ESRC and AHRC) and the interdisciplinary Leverhulme Material Social
Futures Doctoral Training Centre (ISF, supervisors SPURLING and BUSCHER). The ESRC North-
West Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership (NWDTP) is the largest in England, and the North
West Consortium of AHRC Doctoral Training Partnerships (NWCDTP), is one of 10 funded by the
AHRC. Total budgets are £25M and £13.6M over 6 years respectively, shared across 7 Universities.
a) PGR recruitment




                                                                                              10
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


PGR students arrive at Lancaster via advertised studentships and general applications. ESRC DTP
membership reflects our inter-, trans-, post-disciplinary ethos enabling access to five pathways in
Socio-legal Studies; Criminology, Social Policy and Social Work; Social Anthropology; Social Studies
of Science, Technology and Medicine; and Sociology. AHRC DTP applications focus on the Media &
Cultural Studies pathway, and include students registered for the department’s PhD in Gender &
Women’s Studies. As a result, 53 Research Council studentships have been awarded, including 14
CASE awards over the period (see Section 4). Part-time routes, offered across all PhD degrees, are
popular with students with caring responsibilities, disabilities or financial constraints as they can pace
their research. The Doctoral Director and prospective supervisors offer all applicants meeting entry
criteria proposal-writing support.
b) Training and support mechanisms
    PGRs within the department are co-supervised by 2 or 3 supervisors (with occasional
     exceptions). At least one supervisor is required to be experienced in PGR supervision.
    An extensive faculty-level Research Training Programme (RTP) delivers modules in the
     philosophy of science and social science, leading theorists, master classes on specific topics,
     quantitative and qualitative research methods and analysis (including R, SPSS, ATLAS and
     NVIVO, ethnography, discourse analysis). Workshops on career planning, writing for
     publication, presenting conference papers, course design and quality assurance in HE are
     also available. Modules are free to PGR, MA students, and academic staff. Several Sociology
     staff convene FASS RTP modules (DOEBLER, FLEDDERJOHANN, SUCHMAN, SCHATZKI,
     JESSOP).
    All PhD students have access to a range of training and research events organised by the
     DTPs. This includes ‘Methods North West’, a programme of workshops focusing on various
     methodological issues, such as machine learning in the social sciences, using Freedom of
     Information Requests in research, rethinking fieldwork in the time of COVID.
    The Doctoral Directors convene the ‘Sociology PhD Forum’, meeting regularly to focus on
     issues selected by students. Past Forums have covered: structuring your thesis; overcoming
     writing blocks; submitting for ethics approval; getting the most out of your viva; writing journal
     articles from your thesis; presenting research at conferences; planning for an academic career
     and the practicalities of applying for jobs. Centres also run a range of reading groups,
     colloquia, and support groups.
    All full-time PGRs have 24-hour access to office space, Internet access, a photocopying and
     printing allowance, travel funds, and full use of all library facilities and information services.
    PGRs are offered the opportunity to teach seminars on first year UG core modules, and every
     effort is made to ensure that all PhD students who would like the opportunity to teach can do
     so. Support is offered for teaching, marking, and pastoral care by module convenors and
     Doctoral Directors, and PGRs are required to complete the university’s Associate Teacher
     Programme.
      Additional support during the pandemic has included:
              University PhD Hardship fund
              UKRI students have funded extensions
              Flexibility for deadlines for PhD confirmation panels
              Virtual PhD supervision
              Weekly virtual ‘coffee and chat’ sessions with Doctoral Director and PhD students
              Sociology PhD Forum moved online
              Research Training Programme delivered online (including virtual writing groups)
              The Library offering virtual social reading groups


                                                                                                  11
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Progress is monitored by MA tutors and directors (for 1+3 students), PGR supervisors, Doctoral
Directors, and the HoD. Attendance is recorded on Moodle (Lancaster University’s virtual learning
environment) with feedback and formal appraisals in line with university regulations. The Doctoral
Director intervenes, offering support, if the supervisors feel that the student is not progressing
adequately. PGR completions have increased by 20% since 2014. 88 students completed their PhDs
over the period with 57 PGRs currently registered (44 full-time, 13 part-time). An average of 5 PhD
students visit each year, most funded by research councils and universities abroad.
Research student contribute to developing and sustaining the Departmental research culture
through:
    Participation in departmental decision-making via a student representative system.
     Feedback from doctoral students is collated in an Annual Programme Review, which produces
     a detailed report about student issues needing to be acted upon. 3 PhD students were core
     members of the department’s ATHENA SWAN (AS) committee, centrally involved in writing
     the successful application and in planning how to take forward gender equality commitments.
     One PhD student sits on the department’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity Committee.
    Co-organising conferences and workshops, such as: The Annual Sociology PhD
     Intellectual Party Summer Conference; an ESRC workshop on ‘digital story-telling’; Trans-
     Forming Medicine Conference 2017: Perspectives on Transgender Healthcare; Queer Studies
     Postgraduate Conference 2018; ESRC ‘Creative methods for investigating urban
     infrastructures’ 2019; BSA workshop ‘Researching relational space: concepts, methodologies
     and implications’ 2019; ‘Practice theory: practices, connections and methodologies’, BSA
     Postgraduate Regional Workshop 2018; the biennial international Disability Studies
     Conference 2014, 2016, 2018; the 2017 Mobile Utopia and 2018 EASST Conferences. AHRC
     funded PhD students also won funding for, and set up, the Feminist Powerhouse North West
     Research Network.
    Co-organising and participating in staff/student Writing/Reading Groups, such as the
     DEMAND cross-institutional writing and reading groups.
    Co-editing and co-authoring with staff, as with JESSOP/Heinrich on crises and crisis-
     management in the Eurozone; Chen, HU, BÜSCHER on social media in disaster risk
     response in China; GUTSCHE/Xu on journalism in China; SZERSZYNSKI/Yang on electricity
     planning; MORT/Roberts/Wilkinson on ovulation monitoring and reproductive heterosex.

2.3 Equality, diversity and inclusion
   Our aim is to promote, support and monitor a culture in which transparency, equality, inclusion
   and well-being for staff and students are embedded. We were awarded Athena SWAN (AS)
   Bronze (April 2019), are working towards AS Silver and have extended AS actions to include
   principles of equality related to intersectional identities. A current focus is the development of a set
   of Departmental commitments on race equality.

   Key EDI commitments are:
    To ‘benefit from the talents of all’ many decisions are made within the Department
     Committee Meeting, where all staff are encouraged to discuss, feedback and contribute.
    To ‘advance equality and tackle discrimination’ we host informal gatherings for cross-
     University research clusters working directly on diversity and inclusion e.g., gender and
     women’s studies, disability studies, anti-racism, widening participation.
    To ‘promote sustainable structural change and support equal staff representation’
     evening meetings are actively avoided, meetings are scheduled between 10am to 4pm, and
     timetabling requests are respected to promote work-life balance and protect caring
     responsibilities.




                                                                                                  12
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    As part of ‘removing obstacles to progression’ we have developed a department-wide
     mentoring strategy (with trained mentors and guidance to ensure consistency) and set up a
     department Professional Development Review (PDR) Team and process to extend and
     complement the University PDR system.

The department is leading at Faculty and University level in developing policies, practices and
processes that promote EDI including our new guidance on flexible working, analysis of leaver
feedback and the new mentor system. Staff have engaged in University wide activism around the
gender pay gap, anti-racist initiatives, decolonizing the curriculum, and successfully campaigned for
scholarships for asylum seekers and refugees. TYLER is a member of the University Strategic Race
Equality Group, undertaking work towards Race Equality Charter.
Female staff are in the majority (75%) (Figure 2), reflected across all grades (e.g.,13 of 19 Professors
are female, 8 of 12 Senior Lecturers and 8 of 11 Lecturers). 6% of staff are from BAME groups and
we are seeking to increase this. Vacancies are widely advertised, adverts welcome applications from
‘all diversity groups’ and state a commitment to equal opportunity. Recruitment materials include a
diversity statement and diverse images. Selection panels are age, race, gender, sexuality and
disability diverse. All panel Chairs have undertaken training explaining the Equality Act 2010, positive
action measures and unconscious bias in decision-making. An AS action point is that 100% of staff
complete this training. The Centre for Disability Studies (CeDR) ensures continuing Department level
vigilance in relation to equal opportunities for those who identify as disabled.




Figure 2: Age and Gender Profile of Category A staff on REF2021 census date

Promoting EDI:

    A Department EDI Committee with representatives from all subject areas and all levels of
     staff and students, identifies and addresses issues across the different areas of EDI including
     sexualities, disabilities and race.
    The EDI Director sits on the Department Leadership group (SINGLETON), chairs the
     Department EDI Committee and works with the HoD to implement actions that promote EDI.


                                                                                                13
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    Appointment of a Department Race Equality Lead (SIRRIYEH) building on our Black Lives
     Matter statement, to identify key issues and formalise commitments to race equality, including
     training and decolonizing our curriculum.
    Creation of an on-line EDI feedback space and circulation of a termly Department EDI
     newsletter including updates on AS actions.
    Staff carry out research-led teaching and events that generate knowledge and activism about
     inequality.

In the latest staff survey (2018) all respondents felt that the Department has things to celebrate
in its promotion of a culture of equality and inclusion. Staff commented that our culture is
distinctive in academia and could lead institutional culture changes.

Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Research income
The department made 261 research funding applications amounting to bids for over £36M during the
period. Of these, 92 were awarded (a success rate of 35%) resulting in £10.6M in research funding
(Table 1), an average of £1.5M per annum.

Table 1: UoA Research Funding Awarded
 Year                               Value £        Number of awards
 2013-14                         689,918.00               9
 2014-15                       1,304,317.56              13
 2015-16                       1,258,831.33              12
 2016-17                         429,714.54              16
 2017-18                       1,474,087.70              10
 2018-19                       2,831,352.89              13
 2019-20                       2,630,377.45              19
 Total £                      10,618,599.17              92

In addition to proportions of large consortia grants, smaller scale grants have been awarded from a
diverse variety of sources (Fig. 3A and 3B). For example, along with UKRI (21%), Leverhulme,
Wellcome, RMIT University, Oslo University, UK Central Government, The City of Bradford, and
charities, such as the British Society for Gerontology and the Nuffield Foundation, are amongst our
funders.




                                                                                             14
  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 3A: Diversity of Funding Sources for Research Grants – by number of grants




                                                                                    15
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 3B: Diversity of Funding Sources for Research Grants – by amount awarded
All forms of small and large grant applications at all career stages are encouraged, where possible
generating feeder chains, where smaller awards are used to develop large grant applications and
collaborations, or larger research projects generate smaller research funding applications to develop
impact or exploratory research. Multi-centre and/or inter-departmental collaboration is the norm for
large grants. A selection of projects illustrates this approach:
    DEMAND – End Use Energy Research Centre £4.9M (BLUE, HUI, SCHATZKI, SHOVE,
     SPURLING) funded by EPSRC/ESRC Energy Programme (2013-2018), co-ordinated
     research across 10 universities, industry (Electricité de France) and policy partners to reframe
     climate change, behaviour and consumption. The application of Social Practice theory showed
     how energy is not used for its own sake but as part of accomplishing social practices at home,
     at work and in moving around, generating new ideas for engineering and policy.
    An ESRC Urgency Grant: £158k (MORT) led to EU H2020 CUIDAR: Cultures of Disaster
     Resilience among Children and Young People €2M (MORT, Coordinator). Research by a
     consortium of four European Universities and Save the Children improved emergency
     planning that builds on the experience and meaning of events in children’s lives and is badly
     needed at a time of increased vulnerability to disasters worldwide.
    EU Framework 7 Secure Dynamic Cloud for Information, Communication and Resource
     Interoperability based on Pan-European Disaster Response (SeCinCoRe) (2014-17) €4M
     and Bridging resources and agencies in large-scale emergency management (BRIDGE)
     (2011-15) €13M (BÜSCHER Lancaster WP lead) utilised mobilities methodologies to develop
     information system architectures, collaborative information spaces, and standard
     terminologies for disaster risk management in Europe.




                                                                                              16
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    Developing from a GCRF ECR grant, FLEDDERJOHANN (ESRC Future Research Leaders,
     £1.4M, 2020-24) will reconceptualise food insecurity, focusing on adolescents in
     India, Ethiopia, Vietnam and Peru. The team will document not only inequalities between
     households, but also collect data within households to identify individuals who may be at risk
     of food insecurity and its sequelae, even where the household is food secure.
    As co-founder and editor of Mattering Press, DEVILLE, building on related projects supported
     by ISF, is leading in COPIM (Community-led Open Publication Infrastructures for
     Monographs), (Research England Development Fund with Arcadia and partners, £2.2M). The
     project brings together an international partnership of researchers, universities, librarians,
     open access book publishers and infrastructure providers committed to supporting more
     diverse, scholar-led, community-owned, and not-for-profit publishing ecosystem.

Future collaborations remain ambitious, for example, in the DecarboN8 EPSRC Plus Network (2019-
2022, £1.3M) sociologists (BÜSCHER, SPURLING, HUI) are leading the social science component of
a transdisciplinary community of researchers to trial and accelerate the adoption of low carbon
transport solutions and the socio-technical aspects of Trusted Autonomous Systems Security 2020-
2023 (EPSRC, £3M) (MAY-CHAHAL and DEVILLE).

b) Infrastructure

The department provides human, material, and intellectual infrastructures to support research. In
addition to the support identified in 2.2, this includes:
        Training in research project management and budget preparation and management
         offered by the university.
        Departmental, Faculty and Institute R&D funds providing seed funding and resources on
         the basis of competitive applications, along with accessible archives of successful past
         proposals.
        Research built into the workload model at a minimum 30% for all Category A staff. A
         reduced workload is given to academic staff on probation to encourage research
         development. Research buy-out for funded projects and research leave are included in the
         workload model, reducing teaching and administration obligations.
        The Director of Research (BÜSCHER) supports research initiatives, individually and
         through quarterly Research Committee meetings (all staff are invited). She regularly
         monitors opportunities for grants, through an excellent dissemination service from the RSO
         and advises colleagues accordingly.
        Personal research allowances (currently £1K per annum) cover various forms of research
         support, such as transcription costs, research assistant time, and participation in national
         and international conferences. The latter can be supplemented by the Faculty conference
         fund.
        RSO supplies pre and post award research support, including an excellent grant budget
         service, contract support and liaison with funders. The university’s Agresso system
         supports the research process from proposal to closure ensuring review at appropriate
         levels, adherence to ethics, health and safety and safeguarding monitoring, budget
         reporting and auditing.
        All projects are supported through ethical review by the helpful FASS/LUMS Ethics
         Committee.
        The library provides research training, information specialists for systematic review; an
         institutional open access repository for outputs and research data; open access services;
         and research data management services.


                                                                                              17
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


c) Facilities

All staff and research students have high quality networked computing facilities, access to general
and specialist software, and are housed on the same floor in Bowland North College. Permanent
academic staff have single occupancy offices, while RAs and PhD students share offices (max 3).
Specialist facilities providing equipment or data access for research include:
        Mobilities.Lab founded by CEMORE in 2008 to support mobile methods and
         methodological innovation around mobilities research. It holds £90,000 of equipment,
         including mobile audio-visual equipment, software and devices for remote collaboration,
         and drones. It develops and shares creative mobile methods and methodological
         innovation to study the multiple and multi-scalar mobilities of local and global social orders,
         accessible to all staff.
        The Digital Media Studio with £35k of equipment designed to enhance the development
         of new methodologies and co-design. Equipment includes media programme production
         technology, cameras and recording equipment for digital ethnography.
        An ESRC Micro SafePod Network (with the Data Science and Security Lancaster
         Institutes) is an exciting resource that will create a network of secure remote access points
         to ONS and the UK Data Service. It is part of a UK-wide initiative to accelerate the use of
         controlled data and facilitate access to linked datasets. BROADHURST and HU were
         successful in achieving funding for the hub, to be installed as part of a broader initiative to
         create a secure data storage infrastructure for Lancaster (£1M with match funding from the
         University). The aim is to enable research and consultancy where access to and secure
         storage for higher-risk datasets is critical. We are in the process of acquiring specialist
         accreditation to enable health datasets to be accessed.

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Collaboration and contribution to the research base

Collaboration in research is the norm within the department, University (through research institutes
and centres), nationally with other Universities across the UK and internationally. Social science,
cultural studies and social contributions to interdisciplinary research are actively pursued.

Measures of Contributions
Publications: Staff have published 1481 outputs during the period. 41% are indexed on SciVal,
showing 25% of our journal articles are in the top 10% most cited journals (field weighted). The
average citation count for 66 books published during the period is 41.74 (Google Scholar).
Publications by Lancaster staff are amongst the most cited papers within various journals: For
example, HU’s “Family and Gender Values in China” (2016), most cited in Journal of Family Issues in
the past 3 years; JESSOP’s 1988 article on Governance in International Journal of Social Science
reprinted in 2019 as one of the most frequently cited in the history of the journal. WATERTON and
Lidskog’s article on the Anthropocene in Environmental Sociology (2016) was the most downloaded
in the journal (7584 in 2019). SHOVE, BLUE and Kelly’s Theories of Practice and Public Health:
Understanding (Un)Healthy Practices is the most read in Critical Public Health with 26,972 views.

Recognition through 25 Awards and Prizes: Honorary Doctorates in this period include JESSOP
(Malmø, Cordoba [Argentina]), BÜSCHER (Roskilde), SUCHMAN (Maastricht). SAYER won the
Peter Townsend Prize, 2015 for his work on ‘Why we can’t afford the rich’. In 2014, SUCHMAN
received the John Desmond Bernal Prize for Distinguished Contribution to the Field from the
Society for Social Studies of Science and was elected President of the Society (2016 and 2017).




                                                                                               18
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


International Research Collaboration: The department welcomes visiting researchers from across
the world (Table 2). 116 scholars visited from 29 countries during the assessment period,
collaborating in research for an average of 147 days each (ranging from 1 week to 3 years).


Table 2: Region of Origin for Visiting Researchers
 North America                         13
 Australia and New Zealand             8
 China                                 10
 Europe                                62
 UK                                    11
 Other                                 12


The full range of our collaborative activities include joint research grants (e.g., SHJT [Shanghai Social
Science Research Council] on access to housing and trajectories of family formation in Shanghai;
Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS), Pilani [UKRI] on food insecurity, Alberta [UKRI and
SSHRC, Canada]) on artificial intelligence and labour market inequalities. These have led to
publications providing path-breaking theoretical and empirical insights (e.g., a paper with researchers
at the University of British Columbia, (Hu & Qian, 2019) on educational and age assortative mating in
China, which was also published as a working paper by the Princeton Research Network on
Contemporary China, and Fledderjohan with researchers at BITS Pilani (Bartell et al., 2020),
researching longitudinal data on nutritional outcomes showed how India’s main food and nutrition
security programme skewed diets towards sugar and rice consumption in children). Such
collaborations exemplify the international scope of the department’s research profile and international
research capacity building.
In addition to large scale European projects (MORT, BUSCHER), international research
collaborations have also included: East China University of Science and Technology (ECUST), which
co-hosted the 2017 Sociological Review Annual Seminar Series (in London) on "Transnational justice
in migration crisis" (HU); Jena, Germany (JESSOP, seminars and residence to work on post-growth
society); Leuven University, Belgium (JESSOP, summer school and joint publications on social
innovation; Roskilde University, Denmark (SHOVE, seminars and invited keynote for the United
nations ‘Transforming for Sustainability’ conference); the Work and Family Researchers Network,
USA (HU early career fellow and expert panel member); Central European University, Budapest
Institute for Policy Analysis, Open Society Institute, Hungary (KOSTKA, on Roma inclusion); the
Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Portugal (GILLOCH joint research on ‘Fragmentation and
reconfiguration: experiencing the city between philosophy and art’); Pusan National University, South
Korea (GILLOCH co-researcher with the Centre for Film Studies on the film history of Busan as trans-
local montage); Western Sydney University, Australia (BROADHURST on cross-national learning in
social work).
Visiting positions outside the UK have been held by JESSOP (Bergamo, Cordoba [Argentina], Jena,
Linz, Malmø, Munich), SCHATZKI (Zürich, Aalborg (Denmark), Catholic University Eichstaett-
Ingolstadt (Germany), Bristol), GILLOCH (Seoul National University), SHOVE (University of Helsinki),
SIRRIYEH (University of California at Berkeley, Western Sydney University).
Keynotes: Colleagues regularly deliver keynotes and public lectures across the world. For example:
Distinguished Keynote, Academy of Management, Chicago, 2018, Inaugural Heinrich-Neisser-
Lecture, Institute for Advanced Studies, Vienna, 2017 (both SCHATZKI); Cultural Studies Association
Lisbon, Reality TV conference, Gothenburg (WOOD); Rhythms, Ornaments and Masses. Siegfried
Kracauer and the Orchestration of Power, Cité Universitaire, Paris, 2018, (GILLOCH); Social
Suffering in the Neoliberal Age: Classificatory Logic and Systems of Governance, Western Sydney



                                                                                                19
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


University, 2019 (GROVER); (No) Alter Ego: Friendship Between Social Calculus and Inner Feeling,
Einstein Forum, Potsdam, 2018 (CRONIN); Communicating Science: Storytelling Research to
Achieve Digital Fluency, Pennsylvania State University, 2019 (GUTSCHE); BSA/British Library
Annual Equality Lecture, London, 2017 (SAYER); Classificatory Struggles: Class, Culture and
Inequality in Neoliberal Times, inaugural Sociological Review Public Lecture, 2015 (TYLER); The
Stigma Machine of Austerity, 2019 BSA Annual Conference Keynote Glasgow (TYLER), Parity
Begins at Home, Women's Equality Party Annual Conference, 2018 (JENSEN), Public Lecture
Colonial Legacies in Brexit nationalism: a focus on the politics of language, London, 2017
(FORTIER); ‘Transforming for Sustainability’ Roskilde University and United Nations, Copenhagen,
2018 (SHOVE).
Journal Editing/Co-editor/Associate Editing including: Sociological Review (SKEGGS), European
Journal of Cultural Studies (WOOD), Cogent Social Sciences (FERREDAY), Disability & Society,
Disability Studies Quarterly, Social Work Education (MORGAN), Families, Relationships and
Societies (BROADHURST), Media and Communication, Journalism Studies and Journalism Practice
(GUTSCHE), Mobilities (BÜSCHER), Social Studies of Science (SUCHMAN), Critical Social Policy
(GROVER), Radical Housing Journal and City: Analysis of Urban Trends, Culture, Theory, Policy,
Action (FERNANDEZ ARRIGOITA), European Journal of Social Work (MAY-CHAHAL), PLoS One
(FLEDDERJOHANN), Qualitative Social Work (MORRISS).
Staff are members of more than 36 Editorial Boards including: Sociological Review, Citizenship
Studies, Soundings (TYLER); Disability and Society (MORGAN), Computer Supported Cooperative
Work (BÜSCHER); Mobilities (FORTIER, HUI); Journalism Practice (GUTSCHE), Journal of Marriage
and Family (HU), Media, Culture, Society (LI); Critical Sociology, Journal of Critical Realism,
Cambridge Journal of Regions, Economy and Society (JESSOP), Energy Research and Social
Science, Building Research and Information (SHOVE), Sociological Theory, Philosophy of the Social
Sciences (SCHATZKI), Child and Family Social Work (LEIGH), Feminist Media Studies, Television
and New Media (WOOD), Societies (GILLOCH), Sociology (HU, SIRRIYEH, SPURLING),
Sociological Research Online (SIRRIYEH). Book Series Editors including: Changing Mobilities,
Routledge (BÜSCHER); International Political Economy Yearbook, Civil Society and Social Change
(JESSOP); Routledge Studies in Conflict, Security and Technology (MAY-CHAHAL, Walby); Media,
Culture and Critique: Future Imperfect, Routledge (GILLOCH).
Participation on Grants Committees: ESRC Peer Review College (JESSOP, MAY-CHAHAL),
German Research Council, ISRF (JESSOP); Research Council of Norway, British Academy, Social
Science and Humanities Research Council of Canada (SCHATZKI); Research Council for Culture
and Society, Academy of Finland and AHRC Peer Review College (WOOD); UKRI Circular Economy
Centres (SHOVE); Peer Review College UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship scheme
(FLEDDERJOHANN); UKRI BBSRC Zoonoses in Emerging Livestock Systems (MORT), ESF
(SKEGGS), Irish Research Council, Austrian Science Fund, The Netherlands Organisation for
Scientific Research (TYLER).
Learned societies and professional bodies: Elected Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences
(JESSOP, MAY-CHAHAL, SKEGGS, TYLER, BROADHURST); Elected Fellow of the British
Academy (SHOVE); Elected member of the Council for the Society for the Social Studies of Science
(4S) (2013-2016) (WATERTON); Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts (WOOD).




                                                                                         20
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


4.2 Collaboration and contribution to economy and society
The department sustains a network of relationships that facilitate contributions to the economy and
society. Staff collaborate with a wide range of organizations, including local, national, and global
stakeholders in the public sector, civil society and industry. We:

 Inform the work of, or work directly with, policy makers, service commissioners, designers,
  technology developers, practitioners, service users, and service-user groups in order to
  shape policies, technologies and practices. Examples include the Public Safety Communications
  Europe Network (BÜSCHER), the Department for Education (BROADHURST), the UK Co-
  housing Network and the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government (FERNADEZ-
  ARRIGOITA), WHO Department of Sexual and Reproductive Health (FLEDDERJOHANN),
  collaborations with national job advertising platforms (e.g. REED) to tackle gender and ethnic
  inequalities (HU), the Sex Education Forum and the Royal College of Nursing (Roberts), the
  United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction and Environment Agency Flood and Coastal
  Erosion Risk Management Strategy Group (MORT), Ministry of Justice (SKEGGS);
 Commission provision of evidence and guidance. e.g. the Justice Commissioner for Wales
  (BROADHURST), the Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse on online child sexual
  victimisation, and the EU Commission on trafficking of women and girls for the purposes of sexual
  exploitation (KELLY, MAY-CHAHAL, Walby, Towers), WHO on food insecurity in Europe
  (FLEDDERJOHANN), submission of White Paper to the EC on children’s role in building disaster
  resilience, (MORT), Disaster Risk Management Knowledge Centre, European Commission, Public
  Safety Communications Europe, Federation of European Firefighters, CEN Standard
  Collaboration Workshop Agreement CWA 17335:2018 Terminologies in crisis and disaster
  management (BÜSCHER);
 Participate in public inquiries, government committees or fora e.g. (MAY-CHAHAL) Home
  Office Roundtable on Online Harms White Paper, chair of NICE Guideline Development Group on
  Child Abuse and Neglect; (WOOD) Special adviser to the Digital Media Culture and Sport select
  committee inquiry into reality television; (TYLER) Poverty Commission; (HU) evidence on ethnic
  disparity in the economic impact of COVID-19 to the House of Lords; (GROVER) on the impact of
  welfare reform and welfare to work on protected groups, Equality and Human Rights Commission
  and Personal Independence Payment Think Tank Roundtable, Department for Work and
  Pensions; (DOEBLER, FLEDDERJOHANN) briefing to the Cabinet Office, used in compiling a
  government report to the UK Statistical Authority. Response to Government Consultation: Future
  Infrastructure Demand (Feb 2017) regarding governance, structure and operation of the National
  Infrastructure Commission. Response to Government Consultation: The Industrial Strategy Green
  Paper (Apr 2017), response to the discussion paper on The Impact of Population Change and
  Demography on Future Infrastructure Demand (BLUE, Marsden, SHOVE);
 Participate in public debates via mass media and events, including interviews in print,
  radio, television, podcasts and media websites (BROADHURST, MASON, FERNANDEZ-
  ARRIGOITA, GUTSCHE, GROVER, HU, LEIGH, MAY-CHAHAL, MORT, WOOD, SKEGGS,
  TYLER), and social media campaigns (HUI, MORGAN, SHOVE, SKEGGS, TYLER) with 64 radio
  interviews (audience reach ranging from 12,000 to 7.9 million) and 103 TV interviews (audience
  reach ranging from 80,413 to 16.6 million) over the period, widely read contributions to The
  Conversation (FLEDDERJOHANN, HU, MAY-CHAHAL, Fish), and establishment of the global
  Solidarity and Care platform for Covid-19 responses (SKEGGS);
 Combine diverse groups to co-design innovation and responses around shared issues e.g.
  blood banks, blood transport and transfusion services (Sodero, BÜSCHER), car parking and
  travel demand (SPURLING), disablism (MORGAN), the social science of agricultural nutrient
  enrichment/saturation and projects that show radical alternative visions and practices in
  agriculture can be ‘productive’ (WATERTON), housing futures (FERNANDEZ ARRIGOITIA),
  flooding (MORT, GUTSCHE), new economics with New Economics Foundation, Oxfam Global on
  Care Economies and the Cuba Platform on Care (SKEGGS).


                                                                                               21
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Develop research led training in professional or technical forums, e.g. standardization of
  disaster risk management terminologies (BÜSCHER), transforming the way the family justice
  system regards data (BROADHURST, MASON) by working with practitioners including social
  workers, lawyers and judges to understand the importance of data linkage in identifying
  relationships between children and families and outcomes, data modelling for police data analysts
  (FLEDDERJOHANN, HU, Towers), tailored training courses for the British Damage Management
  Association, the accrediting body for insurers, loss adjusters, and restoration professionals on
  working with children and families and the social effects of flooding and recovery (MORT);
 Work to establish local fora for public equalities debate e.g. Social Action Research Group,
  Lancaster Black History Group (working with local schools, community groups and city council to
  create teaching resources on local history and school talks), Morecambe Bay Poverty Truth
  Commission and the National Poverty Truth Network (TYLER); regular engagement with multiple
  external partners and agencies including: MPs, city councillors, civil servants, citizens advice,
  refugee and migrant organisations, church and religious groups, foodbanks, multiple charitable
  voluntary organisations, police, fire service, public health agencies, GPs, DWP, schools,
  businesses (e.g. United Utilities and Eden North) (JENSEN, TYLER, SAYER); working with public
  health on COVID pandemic data and response (SKEGGS).
 Collaborate in new approaches to knowledge exchange, producing research insights, short
  films and commissioned blog posts (DEMAND, CUIDAR, CCFJ, TYLER, MORT), podcasts
  (SHOVE, BLUE, GUTSCHE, TYLER) book-length cartoon presentations of research findings
  (TYLER), YouTube videos, blogs, twitter, ethical impact assessment and serious gaming
  (CEMORE), co-created books and exhibition projects with artists and galleries (GILLOCH,
  FORTIER), online interactive games for flood awareness (MORT), journalistic coverage of
  Muslims in the U.S. (GUTSCHE).
 Case Studentships, including: sustainability of small and medium sized charities with Citizens
  Advice Bureau (Hill); with Lancashire Constabulary (Youansamouth) leading to the introduction of
  a system of personal supervision for police officers; IP generated by (Carlick) resulted in a
  MeSafe (a community interest company) co-designing safeguarding apps with children; balancing
  productivity with public goods in dairy farming during a time of uncertainty (Hammett) with the
  Agricultural and Horticultural Development Board; Social Practices and Settings of Incidents and
  Help with the British Red Cross (Stoddart); Transitions in the technologies and practices of office
  work with the Science and Industry Museum Manchester (Southerton).

The following examples illustrate different types of relationships with external partners:

 Developing an alternative economic approach with the Rosa Luxemburg Foundation (Policy and
  Research Arm of die Linke party, Germany); Open Eyes Forum (Poland); a large-scale network of
  academics, policy makers, business leaders, community leaders, and others (JESSOP).
 Promoting inclusion through the Horizon 2020 TransCrisis Project "Enhancing the EU’s
  transboundary crisis management capacity", ERASMUS for Young Entrepreneurs "Social
  Enterprise as an Engine for Social Inclusion", Local Engagement for Roma Inclusion, Mutual
  Action Targeting Racism, Intolerance and Xenophobia (Roma Matrix), "A Good Start" Project
  (KOSTKA).
 Social Care: LEIGH established New Beginnings which empowers mothers and social workers to
  work positively together in the context of statutory child protection (see Impact Case Study), MAY-
  CHAHAL was a member of the GambleAware Treatment Panel, setting treatment strategy and
  commissioning treatment services (2014-18), and chaired the Guideline Development Group for
  the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) Guideline on Child Abuse and
  Neglect, setting statutory Quality Standards for health and social care responses.
 Housing: FERNANDEZ ARRIGOITA has developed projects with the national and international
  collaborative housing (CH) sector: UrbaMonde; World Habitat; French, Dutch and UK national CH


                                                                                             22
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   Networks and umbrella organisations; Housing LIN; Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local
   Government; local authorities; housing associations; design firms (PTEa, Levitt Bernstein
   Architects); CH groups (OWCH, Bridport, Featherstone, Lancaster Hatton Mill, RUSS, Islington
   Park Street) and charities (Nationwide Foundation; UK Cohousing Trust). These projects share
   alternative innovative solutions to housing crises and to ageing futures focused on well-being in
   vulnerable populations across the UK, Europe and South America.
 Policing: N8 Policing Research Partnership (MAY-CHAHAL and Towers Lancaster lead, PI
  Crawford, Leeds University) combined matched funding from 11 police forces across the North of
  England with HEFCE Catalyst funding to stimulate research partnerships and focus research in
  the N8 Universities on policing priorities, data analytics and knowledge exchange.
 NHS: BLUE is involved with practitioner and user communities in Institutional Rhythms and
  Energy Demand Working Group and the Northern England Sustainability and Health Network.
  The latter provides ideas and suggests potential opportunities for energy and mobility demand
  management in the NHS. The working group includes NHS sustainability leaders working in
  hospitals, businesses, and not for profit organisations, such as Airedale, Blackpool, Liverpool, and
  Leeds hospital trusts; Yorkshire Ambulance Service, Cumbria Outpatient and Patient Transport,
  Global Action Plan, Lancashire NHS Environmental Procurement, and the Centre for Sustainable
  Healthcare.
 Media Culture: Speaking to you at home BBC website draws on BBC Oral History Collection to
  demonstrate a range of routes into presenting and the contribution women made to the distinctive
  styles of addressing the audience at home (WOOD). A series of experimental drone
  documentaries, Points of Presence, Drone Justice, Crash Theory (Fish). Working with artists and
  art institutions: Joint events with the Fitzrovia Gallery and 43 Inverness Street Gallery, London,
  contributions to exhibition catalogues (e.g. Jasmir Creed, Victoria Gallery and Museum, University
  of Liverpool) and exhibition co-curatorship (GILLOCH). The Arca Project: An Exhibition Inspired
  by W. G. Sebald (co-curated with Michael Hall, The Invisible Print Studio, London, staged in
  conjunction with Payenshurvell, sponsored by Aspalls) Payenshurvell Gallery, Suffolk, 2017,
  William Road Gallery, 2018, The Maltings, Aldeburgh Festival, 2019 (GILLOCH). Collaboration
  and contribution to exhibition of The Little Book of Answers, Manchester Central Library, with artist
  Laura Malacart and sociologist Bridget Byrne, 2020 (FORTIER). Face the Feeling, People’s
  History Museum, 2019 exhibited artwork produced by mothers involved in New Beginnings (see
  Impact Case Study) (LEIGH).
 Artificial Intelligence and Robotics: Invited public lectures (AI Now Symposium, co-hosted by The
  White House and NYU – 7 July 2016; Palau Macaya, Barcelona, 19 January 2017; the University
  of Illinois 2 March 2017); an appearance on the popular talk show Charlie Rose (7 July 2016);
  participation in a working group to develop a policy paper for the German Green Party sponsored
  by the Heinrich Boell Foundation; and participation in a coalition of NGO’s engaged in promoting a
  pre-emptive ban on autonomous weapon systems under the auspices of the UN Convention on
  Certain Conventional Weapons (SUCHMAN).




                                                                                              23
