Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 0B   Institution: University of Aberdeen

 1B   Unit of Assessment: UoA 21 (Sociology)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 2B




 The University of Aberdeen has a long history with sociology in Britain. Robert Morrison MacIver
 began his career here between 1907 and 1915, before moving to Canada and then to the USA,
 where he established sociology at Columbia University and founded the New School of Social
 Research. In the 1930s, Dugald Baird, initially an obstetrician, pioneered the study of social
 influences on stillbirth and maternal health. The various research units he founded eventually
 became the Department of Sociology under Raymond Illsley in the 1960s. The Department -
 consistently placed in the top ten for sociology by Guardian University Rankings - continues to
 be an active centre of sociological teaching and training and to innovate (for example with peace
 and conflict studies) while consolidating its previous strengths.

 The submitted unit is the Department of Sociology. Along with Politics and International
 Relations and Anthropology, the Department forms the School of Social Science, the main link
 between the University’s central administration and the Unit’s academic staff. While some
 functions have recently shifted to central administrative staff, many elements of the research
 environment (such as, identifying and developing potential funding opportunities, monitoring
 research income and spending, ensuring ethical compliance, providing facilities and training and
 reviewing research proposals prior to submission) are still carried out primarily by Unit staff and
 other School colleagues, under the supervision of the School’s Director of Research.

 During the review period, student numbers grew – a reflection of the discipline and Unit’s
 popularity – while staff numbers fell from 14 to 9.3. Sadly, one colleague died in post (Debra
 Gimlin) and another retired; the other leavers were recruited to more senior positions elsewhere:
 a compliment to the Unit’s ability to develop staff careers. The Unit’s continuing vitality was
 recognised by the University’s allocation of three new posts at the start of 2020. The pandemic
 delayed the filling of two of the vacancies, but Isabella Kasselstrand, joined as a Lecturer in
 December 2020.

 The structure and tradition of the Department has promoted staff autonomy in research and
 publication and the Unit’s research activity is driven largely by the interests of its individual
 members. However, because the Unit is small, because all staff collaborate in teaching its
 undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) degrees (and many courses are co-taught), and
 because such teaching reflects staff research interests, there is considerable informal
 encouragement and cross-fertilisation. The result is not only research-led teaching but also
 research inspired by teaching. This allows us to summarily describe our research under three
 broad headings:
     • The sociology of religion;
     • The sociology of peace and conflict;
     • The sociology of social divisions.
 As described in the following sections, these fields are not exclusive, and staff research interests
 often overlap between two or three of the areas, which creates opportunities for collaboration
 and peer-to-peer support and guidance.

 2.1: The Sociology of Religion

 The Department has four staff who work in the sociology of religion. Steve Bruce’s standing as
 an expert on secularisation and on the “westernisation” of eastern religious themes in
 contemporary spirituality has been recognised by his election to the British Academy and to the
 Royal Society of Edinburgh; his outputs in the period include four monographs with Oxford
 University Press. He is currently working on a timely exploration of an important topic largely
 overlooked by sociologists of religion: the uses of religion in sexual abuse and sexual
 exploitation. Marta Trzebiatowska shares Bruce’s interest in secularisation and in the religious
 control of sexuality; she has also advanced our understanding of the links between atheism,

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 gender and identity through her studies of the nonreligious in Poland, women’s narratives of
 “lived atheism” and the use of Catholic identity in Poland’s current religio-ethnic mobilisation.
 Andrew McKinnon has written extensively on social theory and is the co-author of The Anglican
 Communion at a Crossroads: The Crises of a Global Church, a major study of the conflict over
 sexuality and theology in the worldwide Anglican communion. Bernadette Hayes has explored
 the impact of religion as well as its link to ethnonationalist identity in the context of the conflict
 within Northern Ireland. Hayes has also written extensively on the role of religious divisions in
 relation to attitudes towards victims and restorative justice mechanisms, as well as support for
 political systems in addressing the legacy of Northern Ireland’s violent past. All four have worked
 together in various combinations: Trzebiatowska and Bruce on Why Are Women More
 Religious Than Men?; Hayes and McKinnon on “Belonging without believing: religion and
 attitudes towards gay marriage and abortion rights in Northern Ireland”; and Trzebiatowska and
 McKinnon on Sociological Theory and the Question of Religion. Finally, the recent appointment
 of Kasselstrand, a skilled quantitative sociologist, will add a new dimension to the team’s work,
 which to date (and with the exception of that of Hayes) has been largely ethnographic and
 historical.

 2.2 The Sociology of Peace and Conflict

 The interests of the staff mentioned in the previous section often shade into the field of peace
 and conflict studies. The Department has long-standing interests in social tension and unrest
 within the UK – Bruce and Hayes have extensively researched the links between religion and
 conflict in Northern Ireland - but over the review period, it has extended that range to incorporate
 other parts of the world and topics beyond domestic conflict. Hayes, Gearoid Millar and Luisa
 Gandolfo and until 2019 John Nagle (now at Queen’s University Belfast) were central to the
 establishment of the Institute for Conflict, Transition and Peace Research (ICTPR), which has,
 since 2015, provided a focus for staff throughout the School of Social Science and generated
 research on peace and conflict studies; transitional justice; gendered violence and women in
 peacebuilding; and the dynamics of memory, apology, forgiveness and reconciliation.

 Millar’s research on Sierra Leone shows how individuals and communities experience post-
 conflict peacebuilding and development projects and investigates how interaction between local
 and global actors generates new social realities. He has extended this work methodologically in
 his development of Ethnographic Peace Research (with funding from the Independent Social
 Research Foundation) and theoretically (with his most recent work supported by a Leverhulme
 Research Fellowship) by exploring the implications of complexity theory and encouraging the
 further conceptualisation of complex global peace systems.

 Millar has also published on performative memory, a field shared by Gandolfo, whose research
 draws on ethnographic data from Palestine-Israel to show the role of culture and cultural
 organisations in local peacebuilding efforts. Encompassing theatre, song and art, she explores
 the alternative pathways to dialogue that continue despite the stalemate that marks Palestinian
 and Israeli relations at a state level. Recently, her research has extended to consider how
 tensions from conflict zones (such as Libya) are recreated by diaspora communities in other
 parts of the Mediterranean (such as Malta). Her forthcoming output, Post-Conflict
 Memorialization: Missing Memorials, Absent Bodies (2021), co-edited with colleagues at the
 University of Bristol and Royal Holloway, looks at the significance of absence and silence in the
 memorialisation processes of conflict and post-conflict societies.

 Hayes has built up an impressive body of research with substantial funding from the Leverhulme
 Trust (2009-2015), as well as three Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC)-sponsored
 Northern Ireland election surveys (2015, 2017, 2019). The Leverhulme project addressed three
 contemporary arenas of conflict (Northern Ireland, South Africa and Sri Lanka) and four historical
 cases (the USA after the civil war, West Germany after the fall of Nazism, Spain after the death
 of Franco and the Lebanon after its civil wars), as well as exploring the verbatim evidence of
 witnesses during truth recovery procedures. A particular focus of Hayes’ research over time has
 been on attitudes towards the rights of victims and sexual minorities, as well as the differential

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and negative impact of consociational power-sharing arrangements on women in societies
 emerging from deep-seated ethnic conflict. Hayes also collaborated with Nagle on two articles
 and a book chapter which drew on their combined expertise in consociational power-sharing
 arrangements, intergroup tolerance, sexual minority rights, Northern Ireland and Lebanon.

 Before Nagle departed, he made a singular contribution to the study of how power-sharing
 governance structures impact minority groups in divided societies such as Northern Ireland and
 Lebanon. He also published in the field of memory studies and contributed to gender studies
 with two articles on LGBT rights in Lebanon and Northern Ireland co-authored with Hayes.

 2.3 – The Sociology of Social Divisions

 The Department has a strong record of quantitative and qualitative research on social, cultural
 and economic inequalities in Britain, North America and Asia. With substantial funding from
 Research Councils UK (RCUK), the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC), the
 Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council, the European Framework Programme
 and CC Network+, Claire Wallace has studied community-led digitisation and the link between
 social cohesion and quality of life and ICT in rural areas from the Western Isles to India. The
 dot.Rural project has yielded three further studies: Cultural Repositories Information Systems
 (CURIOS), which helped local history societies to develop cultural heritage initiatives; Agent and
 Semantic Support for Rural Economies (ASSURE), which developed intelligent networking for
 rural businesses; and Satellite Internet in Rural Areas (SIRA), which helped to bring fast
 broadband to rural areas. Combined, the projects exemplify the potential for research to change
 lives locally (and beyond). They also exemplify interdisciplinary engagement: each brought
 sociologists, computer scientists, engineers, geographers, historians and business studies
 experts alongside external agencies (such as rural businesses, local historical and cultural
 associations, social enterprises, Scottish Enterprise and Highlands and Islands Enterprise) to
 conduct timely and impactful research that would leave a legacy in the communities involved.

 Just as Wallace’s broader work connects with global projects, so Christopher Kollmeyer’s
 research is international in scope. He studies large-scale changes in the social structures and
 political economies of modern societies and such consequences that concern sociologists as
 change in income inequality, trade union participation and democratic politics. Most of his
 research uses advanced quantitative research techniques and large multi-country datasets to
 understand the causes and effects of structural change in modern societies.

 Sharing this interest in socio-economic issues, John Bone has conducted research in the areas
 of political economy, social and biosocial theory and social media research. His work applies an
 original biosocial model to analyse ways in which neoliberal economic policy affects identities,
 working lives, political engagement, social polarisation and social cohesion. With colleagues in
 Politics and Computing Sciences, he is now studying the link between socio-economic insecurity
 and rising populist politics in the UK.

 Rhoda Wilkie’s work is emblematic of the Unit’s intellectual curiosity. Her studies of species-
 based social divisions are pioneering. She has followed her study of mainstream livestock
 production (which was awarded the British Sociological Association’s prize for best first book)
 with an interest in the use of insects in food production and consumption. She is currently
 investigating the backgrounds, interests and attitudes of the new “minilivestock” farmers
 regarding the food animals with which they work and exploring the institutional vertebratism that
 characterises our understanding of human-animal relations.

 Research and Impact Strategy

 Staff in the Department disseminate their research by the conventional means of monographs
 and edited volumes with leading academic publishers and articles in prestigious international
 journals. But they also ensure open access to their research, supported by the Sir Duncan Rice
 Library’s Scholarly Communications Service (REF5a), by making it available via the Aberdeen

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University Research Archive (AURA). This commitment extends to datasets, for example, data
 from Hayes’ work on the Northern Ireland election surveys are available via the UK data archive,
 while Wallace’s ESRC funded project (2016-2018) made data available to a wider audience via
 the Grampian Data Safe Haven (DaSH). Staff have also used their research to contribute to
 debates via online outlets such as the American Sociological Association’s Work in Progress
 blog and The Conversation (of which the University was a founding member and to which
 Wallace, Millar, Gandolfo and Nagle contributed during the current REF cycle). Staff have also
 popularised their work in the mass media: for example, McKinnon has been interviewed on
 Laurie Taylor’s BBC Thinking Aloud; Wallace has written on rural internet access for iScot
 magazine; and Millar has commented on divisions created by the Scottish independence
 referendum on BBC Scotland’s Sunday Morning and written on peace, conflict and development
 issues for Geographical Magazine, Banker Africa magazine and Peeps Magazine online.

 More broadly, the Department is committed to increasing the impact of its work over the longer-
 term and has created the post of Impact Lead in this REF cycle to support colleagues in
 ensuring that research impact is embedded in all future projects. Part of this strategy is to make
 use of networks that the University of Aberdeen has established. The University was one of the
 founders of the Scottish Policy and Research Exchange (SPRE) network, which facilitates
 researcher contributions to the Scottish Parliament and to Scottish Government policy
 processes. An example of SPRE’s work is the seminar for the Scottish Parliament on Quality of
 Life led by Wallace. The University has also promoted a similar UK-wide initiative through its
 participation in the Academy of Social Sciences Campaign for the Social Sciences and its
 promotion of the ESRC Festival of Social Sciences (in which Gimlin, Millar, Nagle and Wallace
 all participated during the current REF cycle).

 The Unit’s interest in impact has encouraged staff to build engagement with stakeholders into
 new research projects. For example, Wilkie’s current study of edible insect farming is opening
 new lines of inquiry that should have direct implications for ongoing practice. Initially funded by a
 Leverhulme Research Fellowship, Millar’s current research was designed to develop the
 potential for peace and conflict research to feed more directly into the practice of international
 peacebuilding organisations; it engages with six such organisations. Bone’s study of the social
 and political effects of insecurity in labour and housing markets has included presentations to
 local and national politicians, and he is currently applying his biosocial theory to the analysis of
 social media data with an eye to helping policymakers and other stakeholders to better
 understand the underlying psycho-social effects of economic insecurity and inequality. Bone
 also provided the main input for a recent BSA contribution to a British Academy report requested
 by Sir Patrick Vallance, UK Government Chief Scientific Officer, for analysis regarding the
 medium to long term societal impact of COVID-19.

 Finally, as documented in one of our impact case studies, Wallace’s EPSRC-funded project on
 cultural heritage in rural communities involved Scottish local history societies. Her ongoing EU-
 funded Horizon 2020 Cultural Tourism project builds links with Visit Scotland, Historic
 Environment Scotland, the National Trust for Scotland and the Abbotsford Trust to build a
 stakeholder network (together with online media entrepreneurs). Its research findings are fed
 through a series of workshops that will help to develop better strategies for developing media
 tourism in Scotland. Stakeholders are also able to shape the research direction, for example, by
 linking it to the Sir Walter Scott Anniversary events in 2021 and 2022.

 Involving stakeholders and building pathways to impact is aided by our openness to
 interdisciplinary research and collaboration. Sociologists are rarely precious about disciplinary
 boundaries. Though patently a sociologist, Bruce was awarded the Saltire Society’s 2014 award
 for best Scottish history book, while Millar and Gandolfo (and until recently Nagle) research
 and publish in fields that are defined by topic rather than by discipline, and the article by Hayes
 (co-authored with Nagle) on abortion and LGBT rights in Northern Ireland was short-listed for
 the 2020 Meisel-Laponce Award for the best article in the International Political Science Review
 over the last four years. In addition, many staff have worked with colleagues in other University
 departments. Millar has researched land use and farming practices with staff in the School of

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Biological Sciences, Bone has been engaging with colleagues in Psychology and Mathematics
 in order to develop new research on populism and the media, McKinnon has worked on the
 theme of Conflict in the Anglican Communion with colleagues in the school of Divinity, History
 and Philosophy, Hayes has published with colleagues in Politics and International Relations,
 while Trzebiatowska is a member of the Research Centre for Polish-Lithuanian Studies.
 Wallace’s collaboration with the Medical School, mentioned in Section 3, also fits this pattern,
 and she has worked with colleagues in the Schools of Engineering, Education, Language and
 Literature, Music and Visual Culture.

 Staff also engage regularly with colleagues outside the University. Wilkie has worked with staff
 of the James Hutton Institute (formed in 2011 from the Macaulay Land Use Research Institute
 and the Scottish Crop Research Institute), and Kollmeyer has collaborated with a colleague at
 Laurentian University in Canada to co-author an article in the journal Social Forces. Wallace has
 co-authored with a number of James Hutton Institute staff, while McKinnon is involved in long-
 term collaboration with colleagues at the University of Toronto. Millar collaborated with
 colleagues at Radboud University Nijmegen, Lund University and Uppsala University to
 complete a 2016 edited volume Peacebuilding and Friction: Global and Local Encounters in
 Post-Conflict Societies. In the same year Millar organised an international authors workshop
 funded by the Independent Social Research Foundation that resulted in an edited volume titled
 Ethnographic Peace Research: Approaches and Tensions and a special issue of International
 Peacekeeping in 2018. Together these publications incorporated the work of 17 authors from
 eight different countries. Gandolfo similarly convened a symposium with the NIOD Institute for
 War, Holocaust and Genocide Studies, Amsterdam, in 2016 that resulted in a volume titled Post-
 Conflict Memorialization: Missing Memorials, Absent Bodies, co-edited with colleagues at Royal
 Holloway and the University of Bristol. Wallace has collaborated with colleagues in the United
 Arab Emirates and has been a visiting fellow at the University of Zheijang (one of China’s most
 prestigious Universities). She has twice been an ERASMUS exchange scholar at the Czech
 University of Brno and twice been a visiting professor at the University of Freibourg, Switzerland.
 Her research on digital communications has involved colleagues at Robert Gordon University,
 Manchester Metropolitan University, RMIT Australia and the University of Groningen, while the
 ESRC Digital Working Research Centre incorporates colleagues from the University of Sussex,
 University of Leeds and University of Cambridge. She is also involved with 16 universities and
 research institutes across the EU in the Horizon 2020 project titled Social and Innovative
 Platform on Cultural Tourism and Its Potential Towards Deepening Europeanisation.

 Finally, the Unit’s staff have long been active in disseminating their work beyond the academy.
 Bruce has written frequently for the Herald (formerly the Glasgow Herald) and he has also
 addressed clergy audiences, humanist societies, the Orange Order, staff of the Scottish
 Parliament and political organisations with an interest in religious identity and contemporary
 affairs. Trzebiatowska has addressed the Edinburgh Secular Society and the “Being Human
 Festival”. Millar and Gimlin (in 2014) and Wallace (in 2017) took part in the ESRC-sponsored
 Festival of Social Sciences, and Wallace has contributed to the University’s annual Mayfest,
 which presents research findings to the public.

 All of these engaged, interdisciplinary and collaborative efforts evidence the supportive research
 environment within the Department and the School of Social Sciences more generally. Staff are
 encouraged to pursue a research agenda of their own making and to develop relationships and
 networks both within the school and University, and at other institutions, that can foster those
 ambitions. As part of that support, the Department and School share responsibility for the
 oversight of basic research development. This includes, for example, an internal grant
 application review that provides staff with constructive feedback. It also includes a research
 ethics review to assess the research integrity and data management and protection plans for
 any new research endeavours prior to review by the Committee for Research Ethics and
 Governance in Arts, Social Sciences and Business, the original policies of which were drawn up
 by a member of the Unit and on which the school has a representative in the shape of a School
 Ethics Officer. All staff and postgraduate research (PGR) students submit plans for new and
 ongoing projects to this committee and receive helpful ethical guidance. These activities

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 demonstrate the Unit’s adherence to the University’s research ethics and governance
 frameworks, as set out in the University’s Research Governance Handbook, which is aligned
 with the UKRI, UUK and EU concordats and policies on research integrity (REF5a). University
 level support includes help from a dedicated Business Development Officer, who identifies grant
 opportunities for the Department broadly while developing relationships with specific staff
 members to target specific opportunities. It also includes a wider training provision in research
 practices and support for interdisciplinary initiatives provided through the University’s Grants
 Academy (REF5a). Collectively these structures function to promote and support the
 independent research efforts of the Unit’s staff.

 3B   2. People

 Staff Development

 The University of Aberdeen maintains well defined procedures for supporting staff through their
 early careers, overseen by the University’s Researcher Development Unit (REF5a). For
 example, the University supports the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers and incorporates policies in line with the concordat’s seven principles. The
 University also supports the Code of Conduct for the Recruitment of Researchers, which
 identifies key principles for good working conditions for researchers. The University’s strength in
 this area is evidenced by the retention of the HR Excellence in Research Award (REF5a) since it
 was first awarded in 2010. In addition, probationary staff have protected research time; they are
 also formally mentored by a senior colleague. Three of the staff discussed here (Millar,
 Gandolfo and Nagle) benefited from these mechanisms in the earlier years of this review
 period. While there were no subsequent permanent hires until December 2020, various
 temporary teaching fellows and lecturers have greatly benefited from this system. Peter
 Gardner, for example, secured a permanent appointment at York after a year in Aberdeen.

 In addition to probationary and mentoring systems, the University provides a wide range of
 research training; some developed and provided by University staff, and others provided by
 external consultants. Over the course of this REF cycle, for example, staff have taken courses or
 participated in workshops on developing bids for external research funding, on research ethics,
 on identifying and engaging with research partners, on enhancing research impact, on
 supervising PGR students and on managing research staff. The University has responded to the
 changing nature of the UK funding landscape by rethinking and refocusing its research themes
 through a series of working groups in which Unit staff participated. The result is the Aberdeen
 2040 strategic plan (REF5a). Staff knowledge of, and engagement with, national research
 developments – such as the Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) – have been supported
 within the University by an ongoing series of “Conversations on” organised around themes of
 central importance to UKRI funders. These connect Unit staff with those in other Departments
 and Schools with similar thematic interests and so enhance the kind of engaged interdisciplinary
 and collaborative research the Unit staff have long pursued. Additionally, through ResearchBite
 sessions delivered by the Grants Academy (REF5a) – a team based in the University’s central
 Research and Innovation Unit – and regular School forum meetings, staff engage with up-to-
 date policy and governance and procedures related to research matters. These cover topics
 such as data management, GDPR Compliance, research funding, inclusion and diversity and
 decolonising the curriculum.

 However, for all these supportive University structures, the most effective stimulants of the Unit’s
 research remain the collegiality and the informal interaction made possible by collaborating in
 teaching and sharing conjoint office space. Members of the Unit work closely together on
 Department and School committees and in tasks such as postgraduate supervision. This
 closeness augments the stimulation provided by visiting speakers, staff seminars and the like.

 In addition, post probation, all staff are appraised annually by their academic line manager
 (either the head of Department or the head of the School of Social Science). They are
 encouraged to evaluate their previous year and to frame achievable research, publication and

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impact goals for the forthcoming year. Research excellence is encouraged and rewarded
 through an annual promotions process; during the assessment period four staff were promoted
 from lecturer to senior lecturer (Wilkie, Trzebiatowska and Millar) or reader (Nagle) and
 Gimlin was promoted from senior lecturer to professor. Ironically, a good illustration of the Unit’s
 success in developing staff careers is the departure of Nagle for a chair at Queen’s University,
 Belfast.

 With the exception of Hayes (now part-time) all staff are employed on conventional open-ended
 full-time teaching-and-research contracts. The University is committed to a 40/40/20 split of time
 between teaching, research and administration and, as the published outputs and the two impact
 case studies demonstrate, this has allowed staff sufficient time to pursue their own research.
 The Unit also schedules teaching commitments so that staff can concentrate teaching in one
 semester and so remain largely free of timetabled teaching commitments for the other. In
 addition, the acquisition of research grants that fund teaching cover is strongly encouraged, and
 during the census period three members of staff have had periods of research leave funded by
 such mechanisms; both Millar and Nagle acquired Leverhulme Research Fellowships and
 Gandolfo spent a year on research leave at the Netherlands Institute for Advanced Study.

 As one would expect when its discipline focuses on social divisions, the Unit has always been
 mindful of equality and diversity issues and has led rather than followed the University’s direction
 in such matters. Since 1991 every vacancy short list has included at least one female candidate
 and for the last two decades the Unit has had an even gender balance at every level of staffing.
 In the year prior to Gimlin’s untimely death, there were three female professors and one male.
 There are currently five women in the staff of 9.3 (six if we include the December 2020
 appointee) and, of its three professors, two are female. The staff is ethnically mixed: three are
 Scottish, two English, two Irish, and one each from Canada, Poland and the US. No members
 are registered disabled (although the Unit’s building is well equipped for disabled access). The
 Unit staff also has a good mix of career stages, from Lecturer through to Professor.

 A concern for equality and fairness has informed every stage of REF preparation. All staff have
 been involved in the drafting of this statement and in the selection of submitted outputs. All
 potential submissions were read and scored anonymously by both internal and external readers.
 There was bespoke Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) training for staff involved in REF decision-
 making, including selection of the output portfolio. In conformity with the institutional Code of
 Practice for REF2021 all staff were encouraged to declare individual circumstances which may
 have affected their ability to contribute to the Unit’s research.

 On top of the Unit’s own tradition of diversity and inclusion, the University has introduced a
 range of equality and diversity initiatives (see the broader institutional submission for details) and
 it holds an institutional Athena SWAN Bronze award. The School of Social Science (co-led on
 this matter by Gandolfo) successfully applied for the Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2017. As
 part of its report, the Athena SWAN self-assessment team planned new measures for
 awareness training and monitoring to be enacted before submission for the Silver Award in
 November 2021. The majority of actions have been taken, and the Unit and School are on
 schedule to submit for the Silver Award in April 2022.

 Postgraduates

 The Unit has been successful in PG recruitment. The Unit supports five one-year postgraduate
 Master’s degrees which attract students and act as a feeder system for our PhD programme.
 The Master’s in Research in Social Science, in particular, often serves this function as it
 provides a deeper knowledge of research methods and so is a strong preparation for PhD
 studies. Recently the PhD programme has also been opened up to distance-learning students.
 This makes the programme more accessible and encourages a more inclusive and diverse PGR
 community.



                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department has long enjoyed ESRC accreditation and (with Edinburgh, Stirling and
 Glasgow) is part of the Scottish Doctoral Training Partnership. This provides a funding stream
 for students, wider opportunities for training and discussion, additional funds for specialised
 language training and fieldwork and, notably, an annual PGR conference. The Unit currently has
 two students (Ruben Schneider and Krzys Adamczyk) funded through this scheme. The Unit is
 also a participant in the interdisciplinary “Political Concepts in the World” (POLITICO)
 programme, a Horizon 2020 Marie Skłodowska-Curie doctoral training programme situated in
 the University’s Centre for Citizenship, Civil Society and Rule of Law (CISRUL). Immediately
 before the pandemic two students were funded through this programme (although, as a
 response to the pandemic, one has now transferred to her home country).

 As in any research active department, PhD students contribute significantly to the Department’s
 research culture and are included and supported in a number of ways. All PGRs are provided
 with office space, library access and a fully networked PC, and all participate in and attend
 Departmental and School seminars. Additionally, with support from the School, PhD students
 regularly participate in national and international conferences, raising the profile of the
 Department further. Over the course of this REF cycle, for example, in addition to many
 domestic conferences in Scotland or the UK, PhD students within the Department delivered
 papers at conferences in Japan (Nick Adams, 2016-2019), Mexico, the USA, Germany, Kuwait
 and Qatar (Emanuela Buscemi, 2013-2018).

 In addition, some of our PhD students have engaged in substantial outreach and impact efforts.
 Nadia Ncube (2017-present), for example, is the founder and director of Save the Girl Child
 Movement (an NGO in Zimbabwe), and in March 2019, she was invited to New York to present
 at the UN’s 63rd Commission on the Status of Women. In March 2020, she was also among a
 select group of participants chosen to participate in the Commonwealth Futures “Reimagining
 Peace Workshop” in Durban, South Africa. At the domestic level, Tracey Forbes (2012-2020)
 was a member of the Cross-Party Working Group on Rural Affairs for the Scottish Government,
 and two current students (Adamczyk and Schneider) have recently worked with Government
 bodies through the Scottish Graduate School for Social Sciences Internship Programme (both in
 2020). Adamczyk is also a recent recipient of a Wellcome Trust ISSF Public Engagement Fund
 to continue his impact work. Through these kinds of opportunities, PhD students within the
 Department gain valuable experiences and insights that contribute to our internal research
 environment, while also representing the Department to the wider world and contributing their
 expertise to policy and practice.

 It is also important to recognise that these students have many opportunities to develop their
 teaching skills while here at Aberdeen. They often provide some of their first presentations and
 lectures in the Department’s seminar series, and after the first year of their studies they are
 normally offered the opportunity to tutor on Level 1 and 2 undergraduate courses. This provides
 an important way of integrating them into the intellectual life of the Unit as well as a source of
 valuable professional pedagogical training and experience.

 The University has a centrally managed Postgraduate Research School (PGRS), which provides
 a variety of mandatory training courses for PGR students in the Unit (REF5a). They attend an
 induction course covering research methodology, literature reviews and academic writing, and
 this initial training is complemented by workshops and courses based on RCUK guidelines and
 the QAA Code of Practice. The PGRS supports corresponding training of new and experienced
 supervisors and requires that refresher training is undertaken every five years. Additionally, it
 hosts a range of ad hoc training sessions and events throughout the year for staff and students
 such as Supervisor Breakfasts and training in public engagement, entering the job market and
 other topics of relevance to emerging academics.

 All PGR students attend annual monitoring meetings with a panel of senior academics, who
 report on their research progress to the School’s Postgraduate Committee and are encouraged
 to reflect on their progress by completing six monthly review forms for the PGRS office. A clearly
 laid out framework for monitoring and supporting PGR students explains what is expected at

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 each stage of the PhD, and a written Code of Practice details the reciprocal responsibilities of
 students and supervisors. The Unit’s work in this area is undertaken with the support of the
 School Director of Postgraduate Research and the Dean for Postgraduate Research.

 All of the above is input, however, and the quality of the Unit’s research supervision is best
 demonstrated by the output, or the roles our graduates go on to play both within and outside
 academia. While some have taken up positions in and around Aberdeen, including Forbes, who
 is a lecturer at North East Scotland College, Adams, a Research Fellow at Robert Gordon’s
 University and our most recent graduate, and Ruth Wilson (2017-2021), who is currently at the
 James Hutton Institute, most graduates have travelled further afield. This includes those who are
 pursuing post-doctoral studies, such as Sandra Rios (2010-2014) who is now at the Catholic
 University, Louvain, Belgium, Senna Middelveld (2012-2019) who is now at Wageningen
 University in the Netherlands and Danillo Giglitto (2013-2017) who is at Sheffield Hallam
 University. It also includes those who have made the jump into policy and practice, such as
 Rachel Anderson (2010-2015), who is now Principal Social Researcher with the Scottish
 Government, David Magee (2009-2013) at the Joseph Roundtree Charitable Trust and Marek
 Szilvasi (2010-2015) at the Open Society Foundations in Budapest. Each of these placements,
 both within and outside academia, evidence the strong skills and valuable experience post-
 graduate students within the Department receive and the variety of opportunities that are
 available to them upon graduation.

 Finally, while fewer in number, it is important to note the success also of post-doctoral
 researchers who have worked within the Department over this REF cycle. It is a mark of the
 Unit’s success in nurturing full-time research staff that the three people employed as post-
 doctoral researchers during this REF period have all proceeded on to full time academic posts
 elsewhere. Leanne Townsend (2011-2018) is now a Senior Researcher at the James Hutton
 Institute, David Beel (2011-2015) is now a Senior Lecturer at Manchester Metropolitan University
 and Natascha Mueller-Hirth (2010-2014) is now a Senior Lecturer in Sociology at Robert Gordon
 University.

 4B   3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Over the course of this REF cycle, the Unit has made pragmatic adjustments to protect staff
 research time. Teaching programmes have been revised and new forms of delivery have been
 adopted, freeing up staff time for research. All staff have pursued grant opportunities, large and
 small, appropriate to the requirements of their research topics, many of which do not require
 large research teams. This external funding has been used very efficiently. For example, Bruce’s
 Leverhulme Research Fellowship (2007-2010) has now produced five monographs, four of them
 published by Oxford University Press, while Wallace’s dot.Rural research resulted in three PhDs
 and 20 peer-reviewed articles in academic journals. In addition, Hayes’ large Leverhulme Grant
 (GBP1.26 million, 2009-2015) has resulted in three monographs, an edited volume, a book
 chapter, four peer reviewed articles as well as four PhDs, three of which were awarded during
 the census period. Millar’s Independent Social Research Foundation (ISRF) workshop has so
 far led to an edited volume, a special issue of a journal, and four peer reviewed articles, while his
 2013 fieldwork in Sierra Leone, funded with just GBP2,420 from the Carnegie Trust for the
 Universities of Scotland, contributed to a monograph and six peer reviewed articles.

 These successes indicate the quality of work that researchers within the Unit are capable of and
 what we will be building upon as we move forward in the coming REF cycle. With our new hire
 having arrived in December 2020 and two further new hires expected in 2022, the plan is to build
 on the individual successes discussed previously and develop more collaborative funding
 proposals. We will continue to develop grant applications, which fund PhD students (for
 example, via the ESRC-DTP and the Carnegie Trust) in order to grow our discipline from the
 bottom up, and, in line with the interdisciplinary ambitions set out in Aberdeen 2040, we will
 apply to collaborative, interdisciplinary schemes as prioritised by the UK Government, such as
 via GCRF, with colleagues in the University of Aberdeen and beyond.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The university provides the Unit with excellent IT facilities, and its award-winning Sir Duncan
 Rice Library (REF5a) houses a first-rate regional archive and a local records collection built up
 over five centuries. The Unit has a library representative who liaises with the library staff to
 ensure that colleagues are furnished with the teaching and research resources they require and
 an annual fund for the purchase of books or other library resources necessary for research and
 teaching purposes. The Library manages open access to research through the AURA repository
 and supports Gold Route publishing through Open Access block grant funding.

 Finally, the Unit benefits from the University’s presence in a relatively enclosed and delineated
 geographical area with a relatively small number of administrative units and pertinent institutions.
 That position created research opportunities that still benefit the Unit. In the 1960s Ilsley
 established the Aberdeen Children of the Nineteen Fifties longitudinal survey; its steering group
 is currently chaired by Wallace. That cohort is linked to NHS administrative data as well as other
 major UK cohort surveys in a pioneering data-sharing enterprise, which has made this survey
 unique. It provided data for an ESRC-sponsored PhD project. Along with staff of the Medical
 School, Wallace has addressed a number of popular community engagement meetings around
 Aberdeenshire.

 5B   4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 During the review period, the Unit’s staff have made an exemplary contribution to enhancing the
 professional structure of research in the UK and the wider world. Bone, for example, has been
 Chair of the British Sociological Association (BSA) since 2018. The BSA Chair is the operational
 head of the association, providing leadership and direction to the Board of Trustees that is
 responsible for decision making and monitoring of the organisation's activities. The latter
 includes promoting the discipline nationally and internationally, fostering new developments,
 holding a programme of events and conferences, representing the interests of the discipline with
 government and associated policymaking bodies and setting ethical guidelines for UK
 sociologists. As part of this role Bone also chairs the association's Advisory Forum, comprised
 of its constituency representatives and journal editors, as well as BSA Publications Ltd, the
 association's trading subsidiary, and thus plays an important role in the oversight and running of
 its journals and book series. Bone is also a current member of the British Academy, Strategic
 Forum for the Social Sciences Committee. For his part, from 2016 through to early 2020, Millar
 served as a member of the Governing Council and Chair of the Peace Studies Section of the
 International Studies Association (the third largest section within that organisation, with a global
 membership of approximately 900). In this executive position he was responsible for the overall
 management of the section, for raising funds, for planning and organizing events at the annual
 ISA convention and for overall issues of recruitment and strategic development.

 Other staff are active in supporting research worldwide as follows:

 Editorial Boards: Bruce (Journal of Contemporary Religion); Kollmeyer (International Journal of
 Comparative Sociology); McKinnon (Canadian Journal of Sociology, Sociology, Critical
 Research in Religion, Sociology of Religion); Millar (Civil Wars, Peacebuilding); Wilkie (Society
 and Animals); Trzebiatowska (Religion and Gender); Wallace (Social Forces, Czech
 Sociological Review, Slovak Sociological Review, Social Indicators Research, Journal of
 Community Wellbeing, International Journal of Social Quality).

 Guest editor of special editions: Wilkie (Society and Animals); Millar (International
 Peacekeeping).

 Grant Refereeing and Evaluation: Bruce (British Academy and Leverhulme); Hayes (ESRC
 Peer Review College, Irish Research Council for the Humanities and Social Sciences, Carnegie
 Trust, EUROLAB University of Cologne); Kollmeyer (European Research Council, Polish
 National Science Centre, Swiss National Science Foundation); McKinnon (Irish Research
 Council); Millar (Independent Social Research Foundation); Wallace (ESRC Research
 Committee 2010-2015, European Research Council, European Science Foundation, Belgian

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Council, Dutch Research Council, Polish Research Council, Czech Research Council,
 German Research Council, Finnish Research Council, Kazakh Research Council, Volkswagen
 Stiftung, Panel for German Excellence Strategy).

 Project Advisory Boards: Bruce (British Religion in Numbers website BRIN, Universities of
 Birmingham and Manchester), Catholics in Britain (Leicester); Religion and Politics in Finland
 (University of Helsinki); Wallace (panel for Czech Republic’s version of REF and chair of the
 Social Science Panel for the Czech Science Council) and regularly chairs or contributes to
 European Science Foundation panels.

 Journal and Book Refereeing: Between them, staff have refereed papers for all the major
 sociology journals in the period and most have reviewed proposals for publishing houses. For
 example, Trzebiatowska is on the board for a Bloomsbury series on religion, gender and
 sexuality, Bruce frequently reads proposals for Oxford University Press, Millar has reviewed
 proposals for Bristol University Press, Oxford University Press, Policy Press and Springer,
 Kollmeyer has reviewed proposals for Palgrave Macmillan, Polity Press, Routledge and Wiley-
 Blackwell and McKinnon has judged proposals for Brill, the University of Chicago Press and the
 University of California Press.

 Miscellaneous: Trzebiatowska (faculty, Research PG summer school, Utrecht); Wilkie (mutual
 visiting agreement with French National Institute for Agricultural Research). Gandolfo
 (supported by Junior Fellowship from the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences in
 2014) enjoyed a ten-month residency at the Netherlands Institute for Advanced Study over
 2014-2015.




                                                                                           Page 11
