Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of East Anglia

 Unit of Assessment: Law (18)

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 University of East Anglia (UEA) Law School, which makes up Unit of Assessment 18 at UEA, is
 renowned for the vibrant sense of community and academic freedom that staff and students strongly
 associate with its historic home, Earlham Hall. It is an environment in which people are encouraged
 to explore, challenge and discuss ideas in a collegiate, non-hierarchical manner. Our ambition is to
 foster a research environment that allows scholars to flourish and which maintains a strong
 relationship between legal and multidisciplinary research, and the subjects we teach as part of our
 degree programmes. The School has 39 FTE in permanent academic staff, 24 of whom are research
 active. During the course of this REF period, it has implemented key recommendations identified as
 part of the REF2014 process, to strengthen the support and resources available to individual
 researchers, to continue to build strong research groupings and successfully put impact and
 interdisciplinarity at its heart. These achievements are evidenced by significant improvements in
 research staff retention, in the achievements of the research groups themselves and in the breadth
 and variety of the impact of our research.

 Research objectives during assessment period and over next five years

 Much of the research across the submitted unit relates to the main Research Groups of (i)
 Competition Law, Markets and Regulation; (ii) Media, Intellectual Property, and Information
 Technology; and (iii) International Law. The structure of these groups has evolved since REF2014:
 the former Commercial Law group has been replaced by that of International Law as expertise in
 international law has grown with the addition of new members of staff, including specialists in
 international trade law and related areas.

 The School undertook a comprehensive evaluation of its strategic aims for research and impact in
 2015, involving two senior external academics. The conclusion of that process was, while the School
 performed very well in terms of the quality of outputs (as reflected in its REF2014 performance),
 enhancing the research environment would improve the quality of outputs further, facilitate more
 pathways to impact (where there was a clear gap in skills and resources among colleagues) and help
 ensure researchers were adequately supported even if they did not fall within one of the research
 groups.

 Our objectives for the next five years reflect this process of evaluation and the ongoing discussions
 within the School’s research community:
     1. To strengthen research groups, both in terms of support and membership and use them
          to expand national and international links (see later in this section).
     2. To host major academic events, involving policy-makers and civic society (see Section
          4).
     3. To enhance the provision of postgraduate research training, and achieve greater
          integration of research students within the School’s research community (see Section 2).
     4. To improve the research environment and research training and support for individual
          colleagues, especially early career researchers (ECRs) (see below and Section 2).
     5. To embed impact into the School’s research environment, ensure colleagues feel able to
          adequately pursue pathways to impact (see below).


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     6. To improve the rate of funding council success, by supporting and incentivising bidding
        activity (see Section 3).

 Progress on these objectives began during the current assessment period – and much has been
 achieved, as outlined below. The School sees this as an ongoing process, the results of which will
 not be fully realised until the next assessment period. This is especially the case for objectives 4, 5
 and 6.

 Strengthening research training and support
 The work that is ongoing aims to considerably strengthen research training and support. Research
 mentoring is key to this strategy, together with more research focused training and dissemination
 events (e.g., an annual Research Afternoon, enhanced research seminar series, and ad hoc training
 on impact consultancy, research grant applications, interacting with policy makers, and ethical
 principles in research). The School’s Research Committee, chaired by its Director of Research,
 provides greater support and leadership (for example in commenting on draft research applications
 and allowing for active discussion of how the environment can be improved further). The Committee
 now includes representation from early career colleagues (addressing objective 4 above).

 These changes were made during the course of the current REF period, but further progress is
 planned. Appraisal and individual research reviews are now more focused upon the achievement of
 career milestones and progression (see Section 2). Research seminars are now more focused on
 skills development (for example, broader policy engagement, achieving impact, research grant
 writing and methodological innovations). Research groups will be tasked with engagement with other
 Schools and research groupings within the University, facilitating greater interdisciplinarity.

 Enabling and Facilitating Impact
 The School has sought to achieve this in a number of ways. The first is to provide colleagues with the
 necessary support to create and pursue pathways to impact. This has been done by:
    a) Providing colleagues with an individual research allowance (set at £2,000 per annum
        from 2019/20) to allow them to participate in events that help disseminate the findings of
        their work, including to non-academic audiences, and allowing colleagues to make the
        case for additional funding where it is likely to have impact value.
    b) Making available additional funding to develop impact, on a competitive basis, at
        University level. This included an ESRC Impact Accelerator Account and a PVC Impact
        fund, aimed at website development, impact capture and analysis,
        public/industry/stakeholder engagement and buyout.
    c) Ensuring that impact is recognised and rewarded when it comes to confirmation of
        appointment and promotions.
    d) Creating the role of ‘Impact Champion’ to promote the development of impact within the
        School, provide direct support to people involved in potential impact case studies, and
        ensure that impact takes a central role in the School’s activities as a whole. This role is
        helping support colleagues who are pursuing pathways to impact for the first time or who
        need support developing the necessary skills for closer engagement with stakeholders.

 In the next REF period, we expect impact activity to increase in both volume and significance,
 especially as our ECRs progress in their careers, and the School is committed to invest further in its
 achievement. Impact activity is expected to gather momentum, particularly as an increasing number
 of colleagues with a strong track-record in broader engagement activities offer support, including
 research seminars and bespoke workshops, for less experienced colleagues.




                                                                                                    Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Improving rate of funding council success
 This has been a challenge for the School (as is discussed in detail in Section 3). Our ambition for the
 next REF is to maintain a high level of bids, while improving their quality and consequent success
 rate. We will further encourage our research groups to discuss specific research funding
 opportunities on an annual basis, and facilitate a greater number of larger interdisciplinary bids.

 Approach to interdisciplinary research
 UEA has a strong interdisciplinary ethos and the School reflects this with researchers working with
 scholars from other disciplines, on research questions that span a number of fields, while publishing
 outputs within their own disciplines.

 A principal route for interdisciplinary work stems from the School’s leading role in the Centre for
 Competition Policy (CCP), a former ESRC funded centre that boasts 38 faculty and 23 PhD students
 across four UEA Schools (Law, Economics, Business and Politics).
 Other examples of interdisciplinary research include the CREATe project (create.ac.uk) which
 investigates the future of creative production in the digital age and which brings together researchers
 from seven different universities who span eight different disciplines. The School encourages
 interdisciplinary research by allowing colleagues to undertake some limited teaching in other schools,
 by supporting research seminar series and workshops that are open to non-lawyers and by helping to
 facilitate information exchange across UEA schools. It has also been conscious of interdisciplinarity
 in some of its appointments. In 2017, the appointment of McConnachie was in part thanks to the
 strong parallels between her research and that undertaken by UEA’s School of Development. In
 2018, the appointment of Deutscher was in part to strengthen the Law School’s ability to contribute to
 UEA wide research bids on technology policy, through CCP and beyond. Members of the School
 have successfully applied for research grants with colleagues located in other schools, including
 Heywood (with Health Sciences); Harker (Business), and Jacques (Political Science) (see Section 3).

 Research groupings and clusters

 Each of the School’s three research groups is led by a Convenor, who is a member of the Research
 Committee and whose responsibility it is to encourage members to meet and discuss ideas and
 provide mutual support for output and research bid preparation. They are now described in more
 detail.

 (i) Competition law, markets and regulation
 This Group’s membership have common research interests in competition law and economic
 regulation. It currently consists of seven members of staff (Amodu, Deutscher, Jacques, Harker,
 Hviid (Convenor), Peyer, and Stephan, previously Gallasch and Kunzlik), growing from four in
 REF2014, as well as a number of PhD students, past and present (8 at the end of 2019).

 The Group are each members of the CCP. While the Centre has always included sector regulation in
 its sphere of interest, over the years its activities (as with the School’s) have broadened to include
 elements of intellectual property (IP), consumer policy, and digital regulation. This has allowed
 members to bridge traditional areas of focus with emerging applications, including on media and
 network regulation (Harker), IP (Hviid, Deutscher and Jacques), white collar crime (Stephan) and
 regulatory theory (Amodu). Future areas of growth are likely to include artificial intelligence and
 broader issues concerning the regulation of the digital economy (Hviid, Deutscher) – an area which
 will also draw upon the strengths of UEA Law School in IT Law (see below). These include the use of

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pricing algorithms to restrict competition and the ‘free’ provision of online services that are arguably
 paid for with personal data rather than money.

 As well constituting a significant part of our output and impact submissions, this Group has made a
 key contribution to income generation and contribution to broader society, as described below.

 (ii) The Media, Intellectual Property and Information Technology Group
 This Group includes nine members of staff (Bernal, Deutscher, Jacques (Convenor), Harker, Hviid,
 McCullagh, Mead, Peyer, Scharf) and 7 PhD students (at the end of 2019). At the beginning of each
 year, all its members meet to identify key goals for the coming year, making suggestions for
 activities, projects and guest speakers. The Group’s research areas also engage researchers from
 other Schools (eg Economics and Political Science) and CCP. The School envisages that the
 Group’s activities will grow in future years in line with the career progression of its members.

 Each year, the Group aims to host an annual conference or workshop. In 2018, it ran a workshop
 looking at copyright issues in digital streaming, ‘The Age of Stream’, which brought together
 researchers and creatives in Norwich. In 2019 it hosted a data protection workshop for researchers
 who work with data. Both events were funded by the Eastern ARC consortium. In November 2019,
 one of our PGR students, Holly Hancock, hosted a free workshop on Photography and Privacy as
 part of the ESRC Festival of Social Science, which was particularly well attended by photographers
 based in the Norwich area. In April 2014, the group hosted the annual conference of the British and
 Irish Law Education and Technology Association (BILETA). Beyond local engagement, members of
 the Group are engaging in policy debates at an international level. For example, following a research
 blog contribution on research on automated anti-piracy systems and cultural diversity (a project
 funded by CREATe), we were approached by Julia Reda MEP, and other stakeholders (eg, the Ivors
 Academy UK), for the full study, informing the debate surrounding copyright reform. The Group is
 looking at ways to raise its profile further with industry players, recently becoming members of
 Ofcom’s ‘Making sense of Media Network’.

 (iii) International Law Research Group
 This Group was convened within the current REF period (2014), and now has a membership of nine
 staff (Kent (Convenor), Gazzini, Skoutaris, Farah, Seriki, McConnachie, Hamilton, Wu and Gibbs-
 Kneller, previously Behrman and Ali), seven of whom were appointed in 2014 or thereafter. The
 group currently includes two PGRs and intends to recruit actively more research students in the
 coming cycle. This group brings together a very broad research spectrum of international law
 scholars, and includes International Trade and Investment, Environmental Law, Sustainable
 Development, Human Rights, EU Law, Refugee Law, Criminal Law and International Dispute
 Resolution. It represents the School’s most significant area of growth over the last REF period,
 underpinned by the appointment of a Chair (Gazzini) in 2017, to offer further leadership and direction.

 The Group has held numerous research workshops, hosting around 140 visitors in the past four
 years, with guests arriving from five different continents (see section 4). These events are funded
 through a combination of School money and external funding, for example, £2000 from the
 International Law Association, and two SLS awards in 2017 (£2700) and 2019 (£800). They serve to
 facilitate the development of research themes, as well as promoting networking among academics
 and practitioners and raising the profile of the School and its researchers as a centre for excellence
 in the research of international law. Beyond leading international academics, the events include the
 participation of civil servants (national and international), NGOs and legal practitioners. Many of

                                                                                                     Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 these officials have commented on members’ work, and continued their engagement via the
 publication of posts on our blog, and book chapters in our edited collections. The prestigious guest
 lectures at Earlham Hall have included Sir Christopher Greenwood, the former judge at the
 International Court of Justice and Judge Anna Marcouilli, of the European Court of Justice. The
 Group also hosed two externally funded Visiting Research Fellows (2018-2019) and one visiting post-
 graduate student.

 Research areas beyond REF2021

 The School has evolved significantly in the current REF period. Much of the growth of the research
 activity has been focused on the three core Research Groups. We expect these to continue to grow
 in terms of levels of activity. Membership numbers of each group are now such that they are likely to
 be sustainable in the longer term, especially with the expected career progression of their members.

 There are a number of other areas which are also likely to grow. With the launch of a new
 undergraduate degree (LLB Law and Criminology from 2021), we expect to see crime, criminology
 and criminal justice emerge as a key focal point for research (Purshouse, Reichstein, Stephan and a
 new staff member currently being recruited). The regulation of digital markets is already engaging
 several members of the School, cutting across two of our research groups, CCP and other schools at
 UEA, including Computing Science.

 We will also continue to grow our areas of strength outside the research groupings, including medical
 law (Heywood), and human rights and public protest (Mead and Hamilton). The availability of an
 individual research allowance will allow these scholars to network more effectively with others in their
 field. The School is exploring other ways in which these individuals can be better supported, for
 example, through activities at Research Afternoons and interactions with the School’s Research
 Committee.

 Open access and broader dissemination of research
 All our colleagues are encouraged to disseminate their research as widely as possible, for example,
 either requesting that their output be made open access, or making a working paper or pre-
 publication copy of a paper available on SSRN. Where papers have a particularly strong or urgent
 public interest aspect to them, colleagues have also asked journal editors to waive embargoes and
 place papers in ‘Editor’s picks’ type free sections of collections. They are also encouraged as a
 matter of strategy to disseminate their research as widely as possible and through mixed modes,
 such as policy briefs and blog posts (including those the School hosts). This assessment period has
 therefore seen a number of pieces published by colleagues in The Conversation and other innovative
 online outlets that reach a wider audience and active engagement with the media and with social
 media, through written items for newspapers, commentaries, quotes, blogs and tweets, as well as
 some more innovative approaches such as poems, plays and games (see Section 4).

 Research integrity
 Research integrity is central to the research training that we provide to our staff and research
 students. Ethical review is mandatory for all research conducted by staff, students and associates of
 UEA. The School has a Research Ethics Director (Heywood) who can be approached for informal
 advice on the necessary procedure and level of risk associated with proposed research projects. For
 most of the REF period, responsibility for this oversight rested with the General Research Ethics
 Committee (G-REC). As a School with a relatively small number of research projects raising

                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 significant ethical issues, membership of this committee did not prove particularly suitable. In 2019,
 the review process was restructured, and the Law School and School of Social Work now sit on a
 joint research ethics committee. This reflects an important investment by UEA in terms of supporting
 ethics and integrity in the School and provides a better forum in which the School can explore and
 develop best practice in this area.

 Section 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 During the course of this assessment period, the School has significantly improved its retention rate,
 as described below, which reflects a significantly enhanced staff development strategy, aimed at
 increasing staff satisfaction and making the School fairer and more inclusive. For example, progress
 has been made to address the gender imbalance among research active colleagues through a more
 supportive approach to mentoring, appraisal and promotion – something that has been evidenced in
 our recent application for an Athena SWAN Bronze award.

 All early career researchers are appointed a research mentor to provide advice and support on all
 research matters, including the formulation of a research strategy, advice on undertaking research,
 providing comments and suggestions on early drafts of papers and providing advice on which
 journals to target. Research mentors generally meet with their mentees three times a year, although
 there is typically significant interaction between these meetings. The level of involvement of the
 research mentor is very much shaped by the mentee’s needs. Whilst some mentees desire only a
 light-touch mentoring approach, others ask to benefit from a level of mentoring that in some respects
 replicates the supervisor/supervisee relationship in a Doctoral candidacy. While research mentors
 are only a requirement for lecturers, associate professors can also request one and the Head of
 School can appoint one for any member of faculty, as necessary.

 Each individual completes an annual Research Activity Plan (RAP), where researchers reflect on
 what they have achieved in the previous 12 months and plan their research outputs, bids and impact
 activities for the coming two years. This is also an opportunity to identify any training or resource
 needs to conduct the planned research and how those can be fulfilled with the support of the School.
 All research colleagues participate in an annual ‘light touch review’ of outputs the results of which
 feed into appraisal and RAP meetings. Appraisals are undertaken annually by the Head of School to
 discuss the individual’s development, identify their training needs, and determine what the School
 can do to facilitate and encourage career progression.

 During the course of this assessment period we have improved our retention rate relative to the last
 cycle. In the 2014 REF period, 14 research active colleagues left the Law School after securing
 positions at other institutions. In the current REF period only eight research active colleagues have
 left under similar circumstances (i.e. excluding colleagues who have retired).

 Appraisals and staff exit interviews suggest this is a reflection of the strengthened research
 environment and level of support these colleagues enjoy. Where recruitment has occurred, the
 School has balanced teaching needs with opportunities to strengthen research groupings within the
 Law School and across UEA. One notable difference compared to the last assessment period, is that
 the faculty are, on average, at an earlier stage in their careers, allowing us to plan for longer term
 research and impact achievements and for succession in key research roles. Indeed, this is one of
 the drivers behind our more comprehensive approach to mentoring early careers colleagues, which


                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 are available to colleagues for as long as they feel they need them, even after they have been
 promoted to Associate Professor.

 At the beginning of their research careers, individuals are fully integrated into the Faculty in a
 collegiate and welcoming atmosphere. This includes meetings with key research role holders as part
 of their induction and an opportunity to present their research in the School seminar series, or in one
 of the university level series according to discipline. All of our colleagues project an approachable
 nature (for example, our annual review of outputs is not anonymised to underline its developmental
 role), and we pride ourselves in being far less hierarchical than more traditional law schools (for
 example, we have a representative of probationary lecturers on the School’s Executive). This
 extends to our PGR students, who share the same common room, printing and IT facilities as
 members of staff and are involved in the same weekly seminar series as presenters as well as
 participants.

 The rate at which colleagues apply for study leave when they become eligible is around 70%. Those
 who do not, generally, have existing research commitments (such as externally funded research
 projects) or are not ready to step down from positions of responsibility within the School (e.g. the
 Head of School). Of the 15 applications for study leave that were made in the period 2015-20, only
 one was not supported by the School (because of performance management issues with existing
 research commitments) and all completed periods of study leave were deemed to have met their
 tangible outputs (as confirmed at Faculty level).

 In the course of their normal work, colleagues receive a 40% allowance in their workload allocation
 exclusively for the undertaking of research. This includes developing pathways to impact. We
 incentivise the development of bids for research funding by buyouts from teaching and administrative
 duties for successful bids including a time allocation, above the 40% baseline allocation.

 Concerns were raised during the last REF period that non-research responsibilities were not being
 allocated in an equitable manner and that the 40% research allowance was being eroded. The
 School responded by introducing a comprehensive system of workload allocation (WLA) in 2015.
 This has allowed colleagues greater freedom to plan and ringfence research time. It allows
 colleagues to request that their teaching be spread throughout the year or focused in one semester
 (where possible), to help the focus and spread of their research commitments. Finally, the School
 aims to ensure colleagues have at least one teaching free research day during term time, to prevent
 teaching commitments crowding out progress on research projects.

 A key finding of staff surveys was that colleagues felt disadvantaged at not having an individual
 research allowance. They bid for funds from a central budget, but a review in 2014 showed that this
 was poorly utilised (especially by early career colleagues) and that it disproportionately benefited a
 small number of more experienced colleagues. It was replaced by an individual allowance of £1,600
 per annum in 2015, which was increased to £1,800 in 2017 and £2,000 in 2019. Colleagues are free
 to use these funds to support their research through conference travel, the purchase of books and
 equipment, or the use of short-term research assistance (drawing on our PGR cohort).

 The School’s research seminar series had previously been a very informal and ad hoc affair, often
 consisting of little more than discussion sessions. In 2014 this was replaced by a more formal and
 inclusive seminar programme that included external speakers. From 2015, all research active
 colleagues are given the opportunity to deliver at least one research seminar in the academic year.
 This caused a significant improvement in seminar attendance and a regular meeting and focal point
 for faculty discussions. It has had a positive impact on colleagues’ ability to develop conference



                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 presentations and prepare papers for publication. The seminar series is also open to PGR students,
 who are also expected to contribute to the series.

 Research students

 The dynamism of the doctoral student cohort significantly enriches the research environment of the
 School. As such, our goal is to ensure the embeddedness of our PhD students within the life of the
 School, and to enhance their visibility beyond it. We highlighted the strengthening of our PGR
 offering as one of the priority areas for improvement and increased investment during the current
 REF period. In recognition of the importance of PGR students to our research community, the
 School currently annually underwrites the cost of three fully-funded studentships, in addition to those
 made available by the Faculty and via the SeNSS pathway, and has invested £12.5 million in the
 physical infrastructure since 2010 (discussed below). In addition, the role of the School’s
 Postgraduate Research Director (PGR Director) has been strengthened, in feeding into strategic
 decision-making within the School and undertaking an enhanced pastoral role in relation to all PGR
 students. This is to address student queries that are not suitable for their academic advisers and
 which they do not feel comfortable discussing with their supervisors in the first instance. This has led
 to demonstrable improvements in both students’ learning experience and their progression (see
 below).

 The PGR Director is responsible for ensuring the quality of supervision and, together with the School
 Research Director, the integration of research students into the School’s research culture. This role is
 formally recognised in the School’s WLA (0.2FTE). PGR Student Representatives meet regularly with
 the PGR Director and are represented on both the School Research Committee and Faculty PGR
 Forum. PGR students have a dedicated space (see Section 3) and have access to the staff room and
 all staff research events, to promote collegiality and the research environment. Funding for
 conference participation and for equipment and software needs has been supported by the Research
 Training and Support Grants attached to the SeNSS, Faculty and School awards, together with
 supplementary funding for self-funded students.

 PGR students are centrally involved in the School’s research community, not least through
 participation in the CCP and School Research seminar series. PGR students may suggest external
 speakers and present their own work, and also organise and participate in the annual PhD
 colloquium (with prizes awarded for best publication and best presentation).

 Collaborative practices between postgraduate scholars and established researchers have also
 enabled PGR students to engage with wider research constituencies within UEA and beyond.
 Examples include a Centre for Regulation in Europe funded project on audio-visual media services,
 leading to two co-authored papers (Jacques with Hempel), and a joint research collaboration with
 researchers at the Centre of Governance and Human Rights at Cambridge to support the work of the
 UN Human Rights Committee (Hamilton with Young and Dixon).

 The School’s strategy has resulted in a step change in the PGR experience. PRES survey results
 show a substantial increase in PGR ‘Overall Satisfaction’ (from 69% in 2013 to 95% in 2019),
 ‘Research Culture’ (from 55% in 2013 to 84% in 2019) and ‘Progress and Assessment’ (from 71% in
 2013 to 93% in 2019). The PRES survey also reflects a significant rise in satisfaction with levels of
 resourcing (from 49% in 2013 to 93% in 2019). All these 2019 scores are ahead of the sector upper



                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 quartile (as were the 2019 PRES scores for ‘Professional Development’ (88%) and ‘Confidence to
 complete’ (89%)).

 Approach to recruitment of doctoral research students and evidence of studentships from
 major funding bodies
 The PGR community has averaged 25 enrolled PhD students during the current REF cycle, and has
 been successful in obtaining a total of five (one +3 and three 1+3) SeNSS studentships through the
 SeNSS socio-legal pathway since the inception of the DTP in 2017-18. Additionally, six international
 students have received either government bursaries or sponsorship from University Law
 Departments.

 A concerted effort has been made to focus and strengthen PGR recruitment in research areas of
 strategic interest to the School. The School re-introduced a School-funded studentship from 2015-16
 (and up to three studentships in 2018-19 and 2019-20). Pro-active support in relation to PhD
 proposal writing is provided by the PGR Admissions Director to LLM students and final year
 undergraduates (eligible for 1+3 SeNSS funding). Interdisciplinary co-supervisory arrangements have
 been established with several other Schools.

 Details of monitoring and support mechanisms linked to evidence of progress and of
 successful completions
 PhD submission rates within the School have improved over the course of the REF cycle. While the
 submission rate for the 2011-12 and 2012-13 full-time cohorts was 50%, the submission rate for both
 the 2013-14 and 2014-15 cohorts was 100%, a figure also anticipated for the 2015-16 cohort. Robust
 monitoring procedures include the Probationary Review (which takes place between six and nine
 months post-registration), and Annual Progress Reviews conducted by supervisors and overseen by
 the PGR Director. The research degrees awarded by the Law School in the assessment period are
 set out below.

  Research Degrees Awarded for UoA18
           2013-14 2014-15 2015-16          2016-17   2017-18    2018-19    2019-20     Total
  PhD         5        6         2             4          2         3          5         27


 Since 2018-19, a preliminary assessment of training needs is made during interview, and new PGR
 students undertake a Training Needs Analysis within two months of commencing their studies. All
 PGR students are required to audit the School’s ‘Research Methods for Law’ module in their first
 year, including sessions on empirical, doctrinal, comparative, quantitative and socio-legal research
 methods. In April 2015, the Law School hosted the British Association of Comparative Law
 ‘Postgraduate Research Workshop on Comparative Law’, an event specifically designed to
 encourage and support those starting out in comparative research. UEA has also invested heavily in
 providing interdisciplinary personal and professional development training and offers an extensive
 catalogue of PPD, featuring approximately 85 taught sessions per annum, many of which are
 delivered online. Colleagues within the Law School have also contributed to the Faculty’s Advanced
 Training programme, advertised through the National Centre for Research Methods.

 Support provided to research students in terms of skills development and preparation for
 their future career.
 The School supports activities that will enhance PGR employability (including a staff-led workshop on
 ‘How to get an academic job’) and more generally, encouraging students to publish their work in

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 peer-reviewed journals. Success in this regard includes (in the current REF cycle) the publication by
 PGR students of peer-reviewed articles, including Legal Studies, Medical Law Review, Journal of
 Media Law, and Journal of Business Law.
 Since 2014, the School invites expressions of interest from PGR students for teaching opportunities,
 where previously the Head of School made direct approaches to individuals they felt were most
 suitable. This helps ensure that all PGR students who want some teaching experience received
 appropriate opportunities. Those who take up such contracted associate tutor positions obtain
 relevant training through the Centre for Staff and Educational Development (CSED).

 PGR students also benefit from a designated PGR Careers Advisor within the University Careers
 Service. The latter runs sessions annually on preparing successful applications and achieving
 interview success in both academic and non-academic contexts. A ‘PGR Opportunities Fair’ runs
 each May, further underscoring the importance of career planning at PhD level. Notable successes in
 obtaining appointment to posts in Higher Education include: Gibbs (Hertfordshire and UEA), Guy
 (Lancaster), Reader (Newcastle), Summers (Essex and UEA), Aston (Swansea), Willis (Suffolk),
 Giosa (Portsmouth), Songsujaritkul (Chiang Mai, Thailand) and Niyomsilp (Chulalongkorn, Thailand).

 Equality and diversity

 The School has made significant progress in E&D during this REF period. In 2019 the School created
 a Director of Equality and Diversity, who sits on key School boards, such as the Executive and
 Promotions. This is part of a wide-ranging action plan that culminated in the submission of our
 Athena SWAN Bronze award application in December 2020. Some of these action points – such as
 providing a greater level of support through mentoring and promoting female research role models –
 had already been established earlier in this assessment period.

 A notable change has occurred to how the School approaches confirmation and promotion.
 Previously, the onus was almost entirely on the individual colleague to decide when to apply for
 promotion and to draft the application form. Under this system, male colleagues were almost twice as
 likely to apply for promotion, which suggested this approach was not inclusive. From 2017, the Head
 of School has taken a far more supportive and pro-active approach. Promotion milestones and
 criteria are now routinely discussed as part of the appraisal process. The Head of School actively
 encourages colleagues to apply for promotion when they feel colleagues are ready and all members
 of the Promotions Committee provide informal feedback and comments on draft promotions forms.
 As a consequence of these initiatives, the gender balance has begun to improve, with the
 appointment of McConnachie to Associate Professor in 2018 and later promotion to Chair in 2021,
 and the promotion of Jacques to Associate Professor in 2018.

 Finally, the School has created a clear and transparent policy for colleagues on teaching only
 contracts (who are predominantly female) to transfer to research contracts. Those who express an
 interest in transferring are appointed a research mentor, allocated ‘research development time’, and
 are involved in all of the School’s research activities. Once they have produced two outputs
 confirmed as 3* by the School’s review process, they can apply for the change in contract. While no
 colleague has completed this process yet, three have commenced it in this REF period.




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 The School has worked to increase research income through the use of the School’s research
 clusters and wider networks. The level of research income reported in the last REF period included
 the School’s involvement in the ESRC Centre support for Centre for Competition Policy. Further, in
 REF2014 we also reported instances of successful Leverhulme, British Academy and AHRC bids
 worth £40-150k, but these were few in number.

 A key weakness identified in the 2015 School research review was the low number of research bids
 submitted and the weak incentives and level of support for colleagues wishing to develop
 applications. It is important to point out that more research awards are only valuable to the extent that
 they genuinely help achieve furthering knowledge in ways that are not otherwise possible. Many of
 our faculty undertake doctrinal work for which there are few resource needs. These colleagues have
 risen in their respective fields of research and produced quality outputs, despite the absence of a
 sustained track record of funding. This is also illustrated by the extensive impact UEA law research
 has achieved despite a low number of successful large research awards.

 The focus, therefore, has been on helping colleagues develop and target research bids in a manner
 that genuinely adds value to their work:
     a) A more coordinated approach was adopted to ensure colleagues were aware of the
         support available from UEA’s Research and Innovation service (RIN) and from
         experienced colleagues within the School. In addition, the Faculty of Social Sciences
         have launched a regular series of bidding workshops targeted at funders, that colleagues
         have attended.
     b) Members of the Research Committee made themselves available to comment on draft
         applications, and the School has appointed a Research Grant Co-ordinator to facilitate
         reviews.
     c) There was also more sharing of examples of successful research bids and both RIN and
         research role models have had more frequent interaction with colleagues – most recently
         a talk by Kirsten McConnachie in January 2020.
     d) Hviid and Harker became members (respectively) of EHRC and AHRC peer review
         colleges in the current REF period.
     e) Confirmation and promotion policies were amended, to reward not only successful bid
         submission, but also unsuccessful submission – especially where bids were shortlisted or
         made it through to the final round of assessment.

 Together these efforts have increased the number of research bids. In the period 2015-2019, 81
 research bids were submitted, of which 33 were successful. This compares with 43 submitted in
 2010-2015, of which 23 were successful. While this amounts to a drop in the success rate, the
 increase in bids in part represents first time bids from less experienced early career colleagues and
 those senior colleagues who had not previously considered it beneficial to secure research grants.
 We have successfully begun to change the culture around research bids and increase their number.
 The challenge for the next REF period will be to maintain a high volume of bids, while improving their
 quality and consequent success rate.

 As envisaged, the research groups have played a key role in the increase of bid submission. As well
 as successes such as CREATe and the UK Energy Research Centre (UKERC) funded project on
 ‘equity and justice’ in energy markets, the International and Competition Law Groups submitted some
 very substantial grants in this REF period, that were unfortunately not successful. However, the
 Groups have enjoyed considerably more success in achieving research impact and the dissemination
 of UEA law research through academic workshops and conferences (see Section 4).




                                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Infrastructure & Facilities

 The School has undergone a significant transformation in terms of infrastructure and facilities. For
 most of its history, it has been based in Earlham Hall, a building that was in desperate need of
 refurbishment by 2010. In the last REF period structural weaknesses in the building meant the
 School had to be temporarily housed for three years (2012-2014) in a former primary school building
 that had recently been acquired by the university. During this time, £12.5 million was spent
 renovating Earlham Hall, modernising its interior and teaching spaces and improving both the quality
 and quantity of office space. The total investment in the building since 2012 includes £8 million on the
 main building, £2.25 million converting a disused stable block into five additional state of the art
 teaching rooms and a second RA/PGR room currently home to CCP research associates. These
 have reduced the number of teaching sessions held on the main campus, thereby minimising the
 amount of time lost in transferring between buildings. These rooms have also improved access to the
 space available for meetings between researchers, for hosting the School’s weekly research seminar
 series and our ability to organise workshops and other research events. A further £2.25 million has
 been spent on an extension of the former stable block, to include 12 new single occupancy offices
 and the School’s Law Clinic/Pro Bono space and two interview rooms.

 When the School moved back into the building in 2014, colleagues went from shared office spaces of
 up to five, to a combination of single and double occupancy offices. This coincided with investment in
 the School’s IT provision, which included new provision of desktop computers, upgraded printing
 facilities and the availability of a ‘work station’ computer for those who preferred to work from home,
 and a significant increase in the size of the local support team. At the end of the last REF period, the
 School’s local support consisted of only the School Manager and PA to the Head of School/School
 Coordinator. The local Faculty Support Service now consists of four, with the addition of two School
 Support Assistants. Their responsibilities include supporting colleagues with the organisation of
 research activities, such as workshops and lectures, as well as assisting with the dissemination of
 research using social media, in cooperation with UEA’s Communications Office.

 The refurbished building has also allowed the School to fully integrate all its research students into
 the research community. Earlham Hall has two dedicated PhD rooms with a total of nineteen
 networked computers and linked printing facilities. The School aims to ensure that a fixed desk
 allocation is offered to all full-time PhD students and that this remains available for the duration of
 their studies. Where necessary, additional office space has been made available for PhD researchers
 in their final (registration-only) year. All LLM by Research, MPhil, MRes and part-time PhD students
 have access to hot-desk spaces in these rooms.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The significant investment in Earlham Hall has created an outstanding space for hosting workshops,
 conferences and other externally facing activities. These have helped raise awareness of the
 School’s research internationally. The improvements to staff development, such as the introduction of
 an individual research allowance, has given colleagues greater freedom and confidence to network,
 form partnerships and effectively disseminate their work. As befits a law school with particular
 expertise in IT and Media law, it also takes full advantage of the opportunities provided by the
 internet and finds new and innovative ways to both spread the benefits of its research to a wider
 audience and to enrich that research through the use of technology.

 UEA Law School also has a particular strength in interdisciplinary work – working not just with other
 schools within UEA but with colleagues in different disciplines in other universities in the UK and
 around the world. For example, CCP runs a weekly seminar series (separate from that of the Law
 School) with internal and guest speakers drawn from Law, Economics, Politics and Business. This
 has facilitated joint authorship of work and also research findings that have informed publication in


                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 more than one unit of assessment. Other areas of collaboration include members of the Media, IP
 and IT Group, as well as individual collaborations on the refugee crisis (McConnachie) and automatic
 voter registration (Bernal). One faculty member (Heywood) is a co-investigator on a multi-disciplinary
 project (with Health Sciences) on informed consent (funded by the Nuffield Foundation). Another
 (Harker), has worked with colleagues in CCP on equity and fairness in energy markets (funded by
 UKERC).

 The School encourages colleagues to develop links with business and industry. It does this by
 backing colleagues when they undertake consultancy work, especially where it closely relates to and
 is likely to benefit their research. Such engagement is supported by UEA’s consultancy service,
 which provides valuable advice, pursues payment and provides indemnity insurance cover. The
 School has encouraged this sort of engagement during this assessment period, by enabling any
 income generated to benefit the individual’s research activities rather than being absorbed into the
 School or UEA general budgets. Commercial engagement is also explicitly recognised and rewarded
 in the UEA promotions criteria.

 Working with UK and international governmental organisations and NGOs
 Work with UK government included providing evidence to a wide variety of parliamentary
 committees, including UEA Law academics appearing as expert witnesses before the Joint
 Committee on Human Rights (Mead), the Joint Committee on the Investigatory Powers Bill (Bernal),
 The Scottish Parliament European and External Relations Committee (Mead), the Scottish
 Parliament Sub-Justice Committee on Policing (Purshouse). Consultancy work has been performed
 for Ofgem (Hviid, Bernal, via CCP), Ofcom (Harker), and UEA Law academics have worked with
 groups such as the Law Commission (Bernal, Gibbs-Kneller), the National Police Chiefs’ Council
 (Bernal), and the National Infrastructure Commission (Harker).

 Through CCP the School also has a unique engagement with governmental organisations through
 the Centre’s Public Sector Membership model. For an annual fee, member organisations receive
 deeper access to research, ideas, knowledge and experts within CCP and receive a number of
 tailored discussion sessions and a half-day workshop designed around a competition theme of their
 choice. The membership consists primarily of government departments and regulators, including
 Ofcom and the Competition and Markets Authority. In addition, members of the group belong to
 several external academic and public sectors organisations, including Ofgem’s academic panel,
 UNCTAD Research Partnership Platform, and George Mason’s Global Antitrust Institute. The Group
 also have an impressive record of policy engagement and impact activity. Over the period, members
 of the School have been involved in CCP responses to 40 public consultations from a wide variety of
 public and private sector organisations, including BEIS, HMT, HoL, CMA, Ofcom, Ofgem, Ofwat,
 FCA.

 Work with international organisations has included the participation in the ILRG workshops of
 representatives of the World Trade Organisation, the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change,
 the UN International Organisation for Migration, the UN Refugee Agency, the UN Conference on
 Trade and Development (UNCTAD), the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, the
 Permanent Court of Arbitration and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent
 Societies. Stephan has been appointed as one of the UK Competition and Markets Authority’s (CMA)
 Non-Governmental Advisers to the International Competition Network (ICN) and has completed joint
 empirical work with competition authority officials. UEA Law academics have been used as experts
 by the European Parliament’s Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs (LIBE) of and

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 made Amicus Curiae interventions to the European Court of Human Rights – acting for the
 International Commission of Jurists amongst others. Deutscher took part in the UNCTAD
 Intergovernmental Group of Experts on Consumer Protection Law and Policy in 2019.

 A number of UEA Law academics work with NGOs in their field, from the Advisory Council of the
 Open Rights Group (Bernal) and NetPol (the campaigning organisation looking at the policing of
 protest) (Mead) to the Committee of the Administration of Justice in Northern Ireland (Hamilton).

 UEA Law School has strong links with the local community and has participated in activities such as
 the ESRC Festival of Social Science. An example of an event aimed at the local community is ‘The
 Age of Stream’ event organised by the School’s Media, Intellectual Property and Information
 Technology Group in 2018, to keep the local creative industry abreast of the latest developments in
 copyright law and thinking. Other examples include Bernal presenting his research on political
 manipulation through data – and the Cambridge Analytica scandal – to the Norwich branch of
 Amnesty International and on internet privacy in general at the ‘Pint of Science’ event in 2018, and at
 the Norwich Science Festival in 2019.

 Dissemination through Media, Social Media and innovative approaches

 Blogging has become a key part of the approach to dissemination of research and engagement with
 the wider community. The Media, IP and IT Group has run its own ‘Information Society Policy blog’
 from 2018 and includes regular posts from UEA academics and research students, primarily for
 engagement with the local wider public and students but has already been picked up by a number of
 MEPs through Twitter. CCP has also run its own blog since 2009 that has attracted 216,000 all-time
 views and 78,000 individual visitors, approximately half in this assessment period. Its regular email
 subscribers include policy makers, practitioners, journalists and academics. The International Law
 Research Group has been running its own blog since 2016 and produced 73 blog posts by 51
 different authors – including hosting guest posts from International Governmental Organisations,
 Think Tanks and NGOs (including the Institute of Directors, the Centre for International Governance
 Innovation and others), as well as hosting a series of online symposiums. Skoutaris’ website On
 Secessions, Constitutions and EU Law is listed as one of the top-30 EU law blogs offering
 scientifically accurate and accessible analysis on those issues.

 UEA Law School academics play an active part in the traditional media, writing articles and
 contributing to the press, TV and radio. They have been particularly good at responding to key
 current events – in recent years for example: Bernal on revelations such as the Facebook/Cambridge
 Analytica affair (highlights included an op. ed. in The Independent and an interview on Newsnight as
 well as BBC Radio 2, 5 Live and World Service); Skoutaris on Brexit (inc. BBC News, The National,
 Irish News and Der Spiegel); and Purshouse on issues surrounding the use of facial recognition
 technology by the police (inc. op.ed in The Times and quotes in the FT, The Mirror).

 UEA Law School encourages innovative approaches to dissemination of research. These include
 Jacques’ use of a board game and then a web-based app to teach IP concepts through gamification,
 and Bernal’s poetic exploration of the ‘right to be forgotten’ case Google Spain in ‘The Ballad of
 Google Spain’, published in the International Journal of European Law. Bernal’s work on privacy was
 also used as a source for the Donmar Warehouse play about the surveillance state and social media,
 Privacy, in 2014 in the West End, whilst Farah’s work on business and human rights was to be



                                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 featured in a play by Freddie Machine in 2020 – the COVID pandemic has delayed production until
 2021/2022.

 Hosting and Participating in National and International Conferences

 The significant investment in Earlham Hall has provided opportunities to host a wide variety of
 conferences and workshops. During the assessment period, 15 events were hosted or co-hosted by
 the School, involving around 1,200 participants and drawing speakers and participants from more
 than 55 countries around the world.

 These events are too many to detail here, but highlights include:

    •   The CCP Annual Conference, which is a key fixture in the competition and regulation policy
        calendar and which has attracted more than 900 participants over the assessment period.
        These have tackled highly contemporary themes related to UEA research, including
        Competition in the Digital Age, Competition Policy in Financial Markets, Industrial Policy, and
        Machine Learning and AI as Business Tools.
    •   The annual conference of the British and Irish Law Education and Technology Association
        (BILETA) 2014, attracting speakers from 12 countries around the world
    •   Yearly workshops in Earlham Hall hosted by the International Law Group, involving
        participants from various UN and WTO bodies as well as many leading international law
        academics and practitioners from around the world. These workshops have tackled important
        questions, such as Brexit, Climate Refugees, and the Future of International Courts. The
        group has also hosted the prestigious International Law Association (ILA) Regional Seminars
        Series (2018-2020).

 In 2018 the School launched the Annual Earlham Law Lecture, delivered by Sir Christopher
 Greenwood (former Judge at the International Court of Justice) followed by, Judge Anna Marcouilli
 (European Court of Justice) in 2019, and Lord Briggs of Westbourne (Justice of the Supreme Court
 of the United Kingdom) in 2020.

 There was also an event aimed specifically at our PGR students, ‘Breakfast with the Editors’ (2019),
 the Group hosted Professor E. de Brabandere (Editor-in-chief of the Leiden Journal of International
 Law) and Professor S. Schill (Editor-in-chief of the Journal of World Investment & Trade).

 UEA academics have also helped organise conferences and convened and participated in specialist
 panels at conferences around the world – Skoutaris organising conferences in Cyprus and the British
 Academy in London, as well as a panel on Secessionism within Liberal Democracies in Hong Kong,
 and Bernal and McCullagh in Brussels on Brexit and data protection.

 Working outside Academia

 UEA Law academics have close links with law firms, engaging with them as part of their research
 and occasionally undertaking consultancy work. For example, Clifford Chance are now a significant
 sponsor of CCP events and in return academics from the Centre (including Deutscher and Stephan)
 engage with them to discuss novel or contemporary questions of law and policy. During this
 assessment period, Stephan took part in a series of events organised by Norton Rose on the ‘Role of
 the Rogue Trader’. These were held in London, Sydney and Brussels between 2015-17. His role
 (unpaid) was to lead a discussion with groups of in-house lawyers and compliance officers about
 ways in which employees might engage in corporate wrongdoing despite having completed


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 compliance training. In return he received insights and anecdotes of how large businesses deal with
 this problem on a day-to-day basis.

 Collegiate Academic work

 UEA Law School’s academics play a full part in the academic community outside UEA, as editors or
 members of editorial boards of many journals – including such journals as Public Law, the European
 Journal of International Law, Medical Law Review, Leiden Journal of International Law, the Journal of
 Business Law, the Journal of Human Rights Practice and the International Journal of Refugee Law.
 They have also acted as guest editors for special editions of journals such as the International
 Review of Law, Computers & Technology, as series editors for books for various academic
 publishers, as external examiners for both assessments and for PhDs and other research degrees,
 as visiting professors around the globe, and in collaborative projects such as CREATe (discussed
 above) and the Eastern Arc.

 UEA Law academics are also regular participants in conferences both nationally and internationally,
 providing keynotes at conferences all around the world, including all over Europe from Sweden to
 North Macedonia, Australia and New Zealand, Dubai, Hong Kong, Thailand and more. UEA Law has
 provided section convenors for three different sections in the Society of Legal Scholars and on the
 Executive Committee of BILETA. UEA Law academics hold visiting professorships in a range of
 universities around the world and also act extensively as peer reviewers. UEA Law School is an
 integral part of the wider academic community in the UK and beyond.




                                                                                              Page 16
