Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Edge Hill University
 Unit of Assessment: 20 Social Work and Social Policy
    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Overview
 Social Work & Social Policy (SW&SP) research at Edge Hill University (EHU) is centred on work
 undertaken within the Department of Social Sciences (DSS), based in the Faculty of Arts and
 Sciences (FAS), and intra- and cross-faculty thematic collaborations involving the departments
 of Law and Criminology (DLC), of Applied Health and Social Care (DAHSC) and the Faculty
 of Education (FoE). Of the eighteen staff in this submission, eight have been appointed since
 REF2014, testifying to EHU’s ongoing strategy to enhance its research and transform itself from
 a primarily teaching-led institution, noted for excellence in teaching, to one also recognised for
 excellence in research. The University is likewise committed to facilitating social science
 research undertaken in collaboration with, and to the benefit of, community stakeholders and
 research users and contribute positively to wider society at local, regional, national and
 international levels.
 The unit works closely with a range partners and collaborators to ensure that its research is
 relevant and addresses societal challenges. Collaboration, research initiatives, dissemination
 and impact activities are facilitated and supported by the Institute for Social Responsibility
 (ISR), a cross-faculty research institute founded in 2013. Particular projects, thematic initiatives
 and collaborations are also supported by research centres and clusters, namely: the Centre for
 Human Animal Studies (CfHAS); the Centre for Child Protection and Safeguarding in Sport
 (CPSS); the Children, Young People and Social Change Research Network (CYPS); and the
 Migration Working Group-North West (MWG-NW). These groupings help to support the
 sustainability and vitality of the unit by providing the intellectual space to exchange ideas,
 receive mentoring and peer support, and generate both internal and external collaborations,
 often emerging out of the events that are organised by the institute (see below and section 4).
 While the University has a strong tradition in social science research, this REF period has been
 one of consolidation and growth. Our strategic objectives have been to:
    1. Develop our staff to produce excellent research that addresses the issues and concerns
       of partners, collaborators and research users across a range of themes
    2. Recruit, develop and progress our staff to ensure the vitality and sustainability of the unit
       (section 2)
    3. Promote a research culture that will support staff and PGR students, as well as providing
       a focal point of exchange for our partners and collaborators (section 4)
    4. Secure greater levels of external funding to support the delivery of research and to
       sustain it (section 3).
 The ongoing enhanced performance within SW&SP since 2008 reflects the University’s long-
 term drive to advance its research culture and activity. The REF2014 submission identified our
 primary aim as the development of ‘theoretically-driven research [with] significant societal impact
 grounded in end-user participation throughout’. Our overarching strategy has been designed
 with this goal in mind. We have sought throughout to encourage policy-relevant, participatory
 research that advances social justice, challenges inequalities and nurtures diversity. This
 commitment is what coalesces the various strands of our work. We have sought to build on
 continuities in areas of identified long-term strength, while facilitating new ventures and
 directions of research excellence to emerge; notably through support for early career


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers and newly appointed members of staff. The UOA research culture likewise seeks to
 support a diversity of strengths and individuals/teams specifically engaged in impact-orientated
 work.
 The commitment to both theory and practical application underpins the various strands of our
 work. Our research has continued to demonstrate a long-term commitment to advancing the
 human rights of children (Cockburn, Coppock, Hester) and safeguarding young people
 (Hartill, Lang, Moore). It has supported and given voice to socially excluded, minority, ethnic
 and migrant communities (Bunyan, Foster, Green, Kinsella, Moran, Sage, Vathi) and
 advocated victims’ rights in post-conflict transition (McGovern). It has also fostered gender, non-
 binary and non-normative sexuality diversity (Greenough, Simpson) and the radical rethinking
 of human-animal relations, veganism and global sustainability (Arcari, Twine).
 Research institutes, centres and groups
 A core objective of the research institute, centres and groups is to foster integrative, innovative
 responses to complex social issues by encouraging interdisciplinary research. Edge Hill has
 three research institutes designed to generate a dynamic research environment for staff and
 PGRs, providing a hub for research collaborations and focussed engagement with external
 stakeholders and research users. The Institute for Social Responsibility (ISR), (previously the
 Institute of Public Policy and Professional Practice (I4P)) is the core environment framework to
 facilitate and support social sciences cross-disciplinary research and knowledge-exchange
 initiatives. During this REF cycle, ISR has become an ever-greater focus and institutional vehicle
 to further SW&SP research and underpin our impact strategy. ISR’s central approach is to
 encourage joint-working and collaborative practices to work with practitioners, policy and
 decision-makers, professionals working in a multiplicity of settings, the not-for-profit sector,
 communities and community activists in the rapid and ever-changing landscape of the public
 realm. In addition, the ISR provides important staff development resources to ensure that staff at
 all career stages benefit (see section 2).
 The work of ISR has been complemented by bottom-up initiatives specifically designed to
 support emerging areas of excellence, while simultaneously strengthening further thematic
 concerns identified as having a strong, well-established track record of research excellence. For
 each, recognising the capacity to grow and enhance the reach and significance of the impact of
 our research, at local, national and international levels, has been a key consideration.
 Several unit staff are also members of, and active in, the Institute for Creative Enterprises (ICE).
 These include Foster and Vathi, who are members of the ICE Arts for Well-being Research
 Group and its CREATE Research Network. ICE is a practice-led, theoretically grounded
 interdisciplinary research forum that connects scholars with the digital and creative economy and
 cultural institutions. It supports arts-based community and social justice research (e.g. Foster’s
 Cultivate (2018) project).
 The Centre for Human Animal Studies (CfHAS), founded in 2014 is an interdisciplinary forum
 for research and activities that engage with the complex material, ethical and symbolic
 relationships between humans and other animals. Co-directed by Twine, CfHAS brings together
 scholars in the social sciences with those in the arts and humanities and natural sciences (within
 and outwith EHU) to inform innovative teaching and encourage collaborative engagement with
 research users and audiences beyond academia. Through the production of high-quality
 research and impact activities, CfHAS promotes a rethinking of our relations with animals to
 create meaningful social, policy, environmental, ethical and cultural change. CfHAS has already


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 established itself as a good environment for early career researchers with the arrival of
 Leverhulme Early Career Fellow Arcari, one of the University’s first ECR fellows.
 Hartill and Lang co-founded the Centre for Child Protection and Safeguarding in Sport
 (CPSS) in 2019; this built on a track record of impactful and policy-orientated research, including
 support and funding from the ISR. With a unique focus, both within the UK and internationally,
 CPSS provides high-quality, research-based evidence to support policy and practice
 development in the field of child protection, safeguarding and athlete welfare. Emphasising
 survivor participation, it creates a collaborative, critical and neutral space to debate sensitive
 issues relating to athlete welfare and provides engaged support for individuals and organisations
 seeking to challenge and enhance the cultural context of sport. The work of the CPSS is central
 to a case studies (UOA24) and it is also increasingly interdisciplinary, with colleagues
 participating from other areas, including Education. Its work with major bodies has led to
 significant funding and impact.
 Beyond recognised research centres, collaborative and interdisciplinary research is also fostered
 by networks and groups. Founded in 2013 and led by Cockburn, the Children, Young People
 and Social Change Network (CYPS) provides a focus for critical research on, for and with
 children and youth. It is a locus of activity for many DSS and other EHU staff (e.g. Coppock,
 Green, Hester, Moore, Moran, Vathi) working on issues of children’s rights, safeguarding and
 child participation in both research and professional settings. The CYPS has organised
 conferences and seminar series to engage with ongoing children and young people research.
 The Migration Working Group-North West (MWG-NW), established in 2017, is led by Vathi
 and provides a collaborative nexus bringing together academics, organisations and practitioners
 working on migration based in, or researching migration in, the North West of England. Aligning
 with EHU’s overall research strategy and groupings, the MWG-NW responds to, and seeks to
 shape, national and international research and policy agendas, engaging with professionals,
 third-sector organisations and community groups to forward migrant-inclusion and social-justice
 concerns. The MWG-NW also drives interdisciplinary research: it organises a cross-faculty
 seminar series and has generated funded projects involving cross-department collaboration: e.g.
 ‘EU migrants in post-Brexit Britain’, 2017, £10k, (Vathi and UOA34) and two GTAs researching
 the UK refugee crisis awarded are jointly supervised by DSS, Media and Law.
 Other significant research clusters include the Sensory Research Methods Group (SRMG),
 founded in 2018 and led by Simpson (members: Foster, Hester, Moore) and the FoE-based
 Narrative Research Group (Greenough). These are in an earlier stage of development but, in
 the coming REF period, will provide the same peer support and will be encouraged to foster
 collaborations and partnerships across disciplines and with research users to ensure that
 research is high-quality and relevant.
 Our impact case studies (McGovern, Collusion, Human Rights and State Accountability; Vathi,
 Migration in the Western Balkans) exemplify the wider development of impactful research as a
 key objective. Reflecting the strategy to develop the research infrastructure to promote and
 underpin impact-orientated work, the centres and groups have underpinned the impact work.
 Vathi’s MWG-NW work aims to build on her impact case-study and research influencing
 migrant-management and social and child protection policy in the Western Balkans.
 McGovern’s work has been supported by the University to establish strong external
 collaborations which have led to greater impact. His work seeks to influence policy on state
 involvement in human rights abuses, demonstrates the ongoing commitment of EHU to critical
 social-scientific inquiry focussed on accountability and challenging inequality and social injustice.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research integrity
 As concerns for human rights and principles of inclusivity, equality and justice are integral to
 why, what and with whom we conduct our research, promoting the highest standards of research
 integrity is a cornerstone of our work. This means ensuring that the research process, from initial
 design to end-user participation and dissemination, must embed and exemplify the principles set
 out in the University’s Code of Practice for the Conduct of Research (CPCR) and our work is
 informed by the standards and expectations of professional practice identified, for example, by
 the British Sociological Association. Those principles include a commitment to excellence,
 honesty and accountability, alongside full compliance with all legal and ethical requirements.
 Likewise, the promotion of co-operation, reliability and respect, and the commitment to upholding
 and advancing the safety, dignity and rights of all involved, are paramount concerns. The
 research-governance infrastructure and resources (section 3) are therefore designed not only to
 enable researchers to abide by those principles, but to promote a broader dialogue and
 reflexivity about good practice and research integrity.
 Open access
 The unit is committed to open research activities wherever possible and adheres to the
 University requirement that all viable publications are at least green open access. We have
 encouraged staff to make research reports freely available via our research repository, Pure,
 and encourage staff to maximise the use of the University’s OA agreements with publishers
 while still ensuring that they are the best outlets for our research. In the next REF cycle, along
 with promoting OA journal articles, we will explore with Library and Learning Services options for
 OA books and chapters, by working with Open Book Publishers, university presses and other
 providers, building on the nascent steps we have already taken in making chapters and reports
 OA wherever possible. Embracing open research is an important way of reaching greater
 audiences, particularly HE colleagues in developing countries and research-users who may not
 have the same access to libraries and subscriptions, which is particularly important to us given
 our research interests.
 Future goals
 Although social science research is well-established at EHU, we seek to enhance it further. We
 will build on our record of outputs, funding, networks, PGR provision and impact. Particular goals
 focus on developing our PGR community further (section 2) and targeting a greater array of
 research funders (section 3). In each area we will contribute further to the overall aim of the
 University to enhance its reputation for developing and delivering impactful and theoretically-
 driven research. Engaging with marginalised and socially excluded groups and communities,
 encouraging their active participation and involvement from the outset in the planning and design
 of research and in the policymaking process, will be central to our approach. Building on past
 and current activities and experiences, a core aim will be the development of research with
 impacts that underpin positive social change and reduce inequalities based on class, ethnicity,
 gender, sexual orientation, age and disability.
    2. People
 The submission includes experienced, mid- and early career researchers and reflects
 institutional investment in research benefitting the development of social-science research in
 general, invigorating areas of identified strength and underpinning new initiatives. Since 2014
 there have been six new appointments in DSS (Arcari, Green, Moran, Sage, Twine plus new
 Head of Department (Cockburn)). Hartill and Lang joined us from another department thereby
 strengthening expertise on children’s rights and child protection. The submission also includes

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Greenough (Education) and Simpson (Applied Health and Social Care), both appointed since
 REF2014. This submission includes three professors (Cockburn, Coppock, McGovern), three
 readers (Hartill, Moore, Vathi) and eleven lecturers and SLs (Bunyan, Foster, Green, Hester,
 Kinsella, Lang, Moran, Sage, Simpson, Twine), including early career researcher and
 Leverhulme Fellow (Arcari). Leverhulme Fellow aside, all staff have continuing contracts.
  Recruitment has targeted those who are research-active, and candidates are required to
 demonstrate clear evidence of research plans and ambition. Given the number of new
 appointments, including ECRs, we have a comprehensive induction process that complements
 central provision. Each new staff member is mentored by senior staff and encouraged to
 participate in collaborative projects. Mentors discuss research plans and strategies for accessing
 institutional support to help mentees realise their ambitions. Newly appointed staff (NAS) and
 ECRs have reduced administrative and teaching loads in their first year and priority with internal
 research support funds. Institutional and departmental staff induction ensures such NAS, and
 particularly ECRs are alerted to the pathway-opportunities and support-infrastructure available to
 advance their research portfolio and career progression. Career support for our Leverhulme
 Fellow (Arcari) aims to prepare her for her post- Fellowship career. She has been given a
 leading role in CfHAS, helping to organise an international conference (June 2021). Her own
 symposium within this conference aligns with her research. She co-supervises a Master-level
 student (with mentor, Twine) and teaching responsibilities add to her professional experience.
 Professional development is encouraged via research planning and both formal (e.g.
 performance and development reviews: PDRs) and informal (e.g. mentoring) structures. The
 University Code of Practice for the Conduct of Research enshrines support for the principles of
 the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. All staff and PGRs have
 access to the Researcher Development Programme (RDP) which is benchmarked against
 Vitae’s Research Development Framework. Department research co-ordinators provide further
 research mentoring, advice and support on, for example, internal and external funding
 opportunities. To develop their understanding of the REF process, ECRs were involved as
 internal peer reviewers (see below).
 Internal support workshops on bid writing and research skills are open to all staff, with a focus on
 NAS/ECRs. These include ISR’s competitively awarded, fully-funded three-day writing retreats.
 Unit staff are encouraged to access central internal funding to support research, including pump-
 priming for external bids, and departmental monies to support staff development activities,
 (section 3). All staff, notably NAS/ECRs, are encouraged and funded to participate in external
 training events to develop and hone research skills; e.g., having attended internal workshops on
 ‘bid writing’ and ‘impact evidence’, Simpson was funded to attend a Missenden Centre three-
 day bid-writing and grant-capture training programme, which informed subsequent successful
 bids (section 3).
 Promotion pathways have been revised to ensure greater transparency and opportunity for staff
 progression via research. SW&SP staff already in post have been supported in developing their
 research and in rewarding excellence in research through promotion, e.g., Coppock (2014) and
 Hartill (August 2020) promoted to professors, Vathi (2015), Moore (2019) and Greenough
 (August 2020) to readers. We supported staff to become independent researchers through
 professional development leading to a doctorate by publication (Bunyan, 2018) and a PhD
 (Kinsella, 2018, Liverpool); other colleagues are being supported to become independent
 researchers in the future.



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff can access internal funding to support research. Although we do not have a sabbatical
 scheme, the Research Investment Fund (RIF) provides teaching relief which has supported staff
 to progress research projects or develop funding bids (e.g. Vathi’s ESRC bid). Supporting ECRs
 is an identified priority for RIF bids: having completed his PhD (2016), Greenough was
 appointed to his first full-time HE post at EHU (2018). RIF funding provided for teaching relief to
 complete his Queer Theologies: The Basics (2020) and present findings at national conferences.
 Moran (with Green) was funded to support a new avenue of research comparing the emotional
 labour of vets in the UK and Ireland.
 Professional development at each career stage is also actively encouraged: Foster was funded
 to develop new collaborative arts-based research projects, including research on sustainability
 and engagement with a community farm. Monies also support national/international conference
 attendance to support staff networking and testing ideas (e.g. Foster, British Sociological
 Association, 2016; Hester International Institute for Ethnomethodology and Conversation
 Analysis, Denmark, 2015) and international networking opportunities (e.g. Coppock, European
 Conference on Educational Research, Portugal, 2014; International Summer School, Canada,
 2015 and Cockburn, European Sociological Association conferences).
 PGR student development
 There has been substantial investment in, and development of, the infrastructure and resources
 available to support, mentor, train and supervise unit PGR students. Supporting PGR
 development thereby investing in the next generation of researchers is crucial to ensure the
 sustainability of the discipline. The graduate teaching assistant (GTA) scheme established in
 2012 has increased recruitment to full-time PhD. The return on this investment is visible: at the
 census date, DSS, had six GTAs among a total of nine PhD registrations (we do not recruit to
 professional doctorates). Three PhDs were awarded in the current cycle (and a further three
 awarded since the census) and we have welcomed three new students.
 All PhD students undertake a formal induction process organised by departments and the
 Graduate School (GS). Since 2019 GTA recruitment is organised on a UOA basis to encourage
 inter-disciplinarity, cross-departmental/faulty collaboration and cohort coherence. All PGR
 students have access to desk space, computers, printing facilities and presentation equipment
 via department-held resources and the University-wide ‘research loft’ in the newly built (2019)
 Catalyst learning-resources building. An annual learning-needs analysis informs support
 delivery: for example, access to methods training delivered by external agencies where required.
 Training sessions are provided throughout the student’s studies (e.g. PGR writing skills,
 conference presentations, thesis completion, viva preparation, writing for publication, the HE
 environment/employment opportunities). Students are encouraged to access RDP sessions.
 Training and mentoring are specifically provided to prepare PGRs for employment and PhDs can
 enrol on the PGC Teaching in Higher Education to enhance employability.
 Departments provide match-funding for competitively awarded PGR bursaries (available to both
 PhD and MRes students), e.g. for conduct of additional fieldwork, national and international
 conference presentation and specialist methods training courses. All doctoral students are
 expected to participate in conferences and seminars held at EHU and are encouraged to deliver
 presentations in the departmental seminar series to hone their skills. They are also encouraged
 to participate in the biennial ECR conference and poster competition.
 Research institutes, centres and groups provide an important subject-specific environment for
 PGR career development; currently, three PhD students are members of the MWG-NW. They
 have taken on group responsibilities (e.g. administrators for web, social media, events and

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impact) and avail of opportunities to develop networks and take up secondments with relevant
 partner organisations (e.g. Asylum Link, Merseyside Refugee Network). To encourage
 inclusivity, and reflecting our ethos that everyone should have access to an inspiring research
 culture, masters students are included as group members.
 MRes provision has seen significant development since REF2014 with a growth in total student
 numbers and proportion in full-time study. DSS launched a Master’s in Advanced Research
 Methods in 2013, which was the foundation for the institution-wide programme (2017). This has
 been a pathway to PhD level study and GTA appointments. Foster and Moore teach on the
 EHU-wide programme. All staff with SRR participate in supervision.
 Student progress is monitored by supervisory teams of at least two (sometimes three) to ensure
 continuity of support and breadth of expertise. Supervisors are provided with training and career
 development opportunities for this role; including funding to undertake external research
 supervision training (e.g. UK Council for Graduate Education workshops). A monthly newsletter
 advises staff of PGR training opportunities (e.g. viva chair training). Several colleagues are
 trained in and have experience of chairing PGR panels; this enhances their own development
 and provides them with experience that can support applications for promotion. PGR and
 supervisory matters are discussed in staff, management and staff-student liaison meetings and
 annual performance reviews. Research-mentoring structures review and encourage best
 practice in PGR supervision and support ECR development. Moore is the Postgraduate
 Research Degrees Supervisor (Social Sciences) (0.3 GS secondment), overseeing Social
 Sciences PGR provision.
 Promoting equality diversity and inclusion
 The unit fully embraces University efforts to be an equal opportunities employer and implements
 all EHU anti-discriminatory policies and benchmarking to foster equality and inclusivity (see
 REF5a for detail). Unit staff are directly involved in inclusivity initiatives: Simpson was key in
 establishing the LGBTQ+ staff group and led on the trans- and non-binary recognition section of
 EHUs renewal application for the Athena Swan Bronze Award (ASBA). Greenough worked on
 FoE’s current ASBA application and serves on the Faculty’s newly-formed EDI Committee. EHU
 and the unit recognise that our ethnic diversity is limited. Encouraging greater inclusivity (e.g. via
 staff, PhD and GTA appointments) remains an important strategic goal (see REF5a) and we will
 work with HR when opportunities arise to ensure that we are reaching a more diverse pool. We
 will also seek to be more inclusive with regard to speakers at unit-organised events as we
 recognise the importance of role models for staff and students. We will also look to appoint
 visiting professors from a more diverse pool.
 Women make up 56% of this submission and 50% of senior research staff and recent
 appointments in DSS. Departments represented in this UOA implement all policies to foster
 gender equality and redress diminished opportunities and work-life balance issues at all stages
 of career development. These include, e.g. ensuring women returning from maternity leave can
 benefit from phased reintroduction to administrative and teaching tasks. Appointing women to
 senior levels remains an important objective. Mentoring processes monitor progress to enable all
 staff (but particularly women) to achieve their full potential. Women are encouraged to avail of
 opportunities for leadership skills development and progress toward leadership roles, including
 participation in Advanced HE Aurora Leadership Development Programme for Women.
 Colleagues taking up this opportunity have included Lang and Vathi who received full funding to
 attend and have mentored other EHU colleagues doing the same. Both have taken on
 leadership roles subsequently – Vathi as Director of MWG-NW and Lang in supporting the

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University’s post-COVID research support strategy for social sciences. Moran recently
 completed the Aurora programme and one is currently participating.
 EDI considerations were central to how REF preparations and reflected the criteria in the Code
 of Practice. The coordinators are senior staff (1F:1M) who have reviewed all outputs identified by
 researchers as potential for inclusion in the REF submission. All staff with SRR acted as peer
 reviewers which ensured transparency and provided staff development opportunities
 (understanding REF process and develop peer reviewing skills) – especially important for ECRs.
 Given the small size of the unit, it was not possible to engage in blind peer review. All peer
 review comments were saved to the shared drive to encourage transparency. Our diversity
 considerations reflected gender and career stage profiles and our part-time staff also
 participated in a pro-rata capacity (we have no staff with a declared disability or identifying as
 BAME). In recommending outputs to the REF Decisions Panel, identifying the strongest outputs
 was the first consideration; where the decision could not be determined by peer review, we
 prioritised the inclusion of ECRs. We chose not to double-weight outputs to maximise the
 number of outputs from all staff.

    3.   Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Research funding income and strategy
 Increasing external research funding was identified as a key objective to support and enhance
 the vitality and sustainability of our research culture. A total of £376k+ external funding has been
 awarded since 2014 (see REF4b). If still modest, it represents a 45% increase on REF2014.
 80% of this awarded since 2018 illustrates the upward trajectory of successful external bids. As
 detailed below, a strategy to meet this goal has involved providing training opportunities,
 developing our research infrastructure and employing internal monies to seed corn external bids.
 Research support has targeted and provided information on funding bodies whose strategic
 priorities align with staff expertise areas. Internal resources (e.g. funding, advice) have been
 employed to support people to move from making smaller to larger bids, integrate income
 generation with our impact strategy and support collaborative and ECR applications for
 appropriate funding sources. Given the interests of the unit, we have developed good links with
 research users. This strategy ensures that our research is grounded in societal challenges and
 attempts to answer the questions of research user, as well as engaging with funder priorities and
 the ‘levelling up’ agenda. This partnership approach has given rise to important funding streams
 where partner agencies have funded research. Collaborative working with HEI partners has also
 strengthened projects leading to successful bids.
 Successful collaborative funding bids include Simpson’s as part of research teams awarded
 funding by Comic Relief (£20k), Manchester Institute for Collaborative Research on Ageing
 (MICRA) and the Centre for Ageing Better (CAB) (£6k), and a collaborative project (based at
 Leeds University) developing online interactive resources helping meet the sex/intimacy needs
 of older care home residents (£98k+). Twine’s relationship with the Vegan Society has resulted
 in funding (£11.5k) examining non-vegan constructions of veganism.
 Competitively awarded external funding has underpinned our impact case studies. Vathi’s
 research on migrant experiences has been supported by funding from the International
 Organization for Migration ($3.5k), the British Academy (£10k), Terres de Hommes ($10.5k), the
 World Bank ($16k+) and the International Migration, Integration and Social Cohesion (IMISCOE)
 (£4.4k). A substantial bid (£750k) to the ESRC was shortlisted but unsuccessful. A revised
 application (£459k) to Leverhulme is pending, reflecting our strategy of supporting staff to

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 repurpose bids through focusing on aligning with funders’ priorities. McGovern received £15k+
 from the EU Peace III Special Programme for Peace and Reconciliation Fund for his work on
 collusion, victims and legacy issues in post-conflict Northern Ireland.
 Hartill and Lang transferred to DSS from another department in 2017: both had existing
 excellent relationships with a range of partners, both universities and other agencies, resulting in
 several inter-related projects undertaken by them which have attracted £900k+ funding (£667k+
 to EHU) since 2014 (some of this income is reported in UOA24). These projects, situated within
 Child Protection and Safeguarding in Sport (CPSS) research centre, include ‘Voices for truth and
 dignity: Combatting sexual violence in European sport (VOICE)’, initiated and led by Hartill. An
 innovative cross-national examination of survivor/victims’ experiences of child abuse in sport,
 VOICE was awarded a total of £450k by the European Union: Education, Audio-visual and
 Culture Executive Agency (EACEA) Erasmus+ Sport Programme. The EACEA has provided
 substantial support for two further projects. First, EU-wide research on ‘gender-based violence in
 sport’ (£143k) undertaken by Lang in collaboration with stakeholders and colleagues across
 Europe. Second, Hartill and Lang are working with Sage (and six EU-based universities) on
 ‘Child Abuse in Sport: European Statistics (CASES)’, awarded £360k by the EACEA. Following
 significant impact engagement, Sport England have funded two further projects led by Hartill:
 ‘Survivor advocacy in sport’ (£69.5k+) and ‘Child abuse in sport study’ (£100k).
 Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact
 Making external income generation a strategic priority has been reflected in increased support
 for bid writing, via workshops, to develop knowledge of funding body opportunities and
 procedures. A system of internal peer review (and external review for substantial bids) for all
 research funding was also established. Bids with external partners are actively encouraged as
 evidenced by CPSS work noted above. In addition, the University incentivises bids by providing
 a ‘reward’ for grant capture and the EHU Consultancy policy allows a proportion of net fee
 income to be employed by staff/departments for research/knowledge exchange activities. These
 funds can be used for professional development, open access charges and other research-
 related activity.
 The RO leads institution-wide support and training to develop external research bids and attract
 funding. This has included developing bids for specific programmes (e.g. Horizon 2020) and
 generic issues, including full economic costing and impact evidence. This programme has
 underpinned successful external funding bids: e.g., Lang attended these sessions and was later
 part of two successful bids for funding totalling £500k+.
 Staff attend sessions provided by ISR on research training and support, utilising expertise within
 and beyond the University to enhance research bids. It runs a writing retreat twice yearly and
 hosted a workshop series (2018-2019) on writing for major external research funders, focusing
 on specific programmes (e.g. British Academy Small Grants), broader perspectives (e.g.
 ‘Successful Application? Views from the ESRC, AHRC and British Academy’) and generic
 themes (e.g. ‘Collaborative grant writing’). These are well attended by staff (e.g. Foster,
 Greenough, Hester, Kinsella, Lang, Moore, Moran, Sage, Twine, Vathi). The ISR also have a
 one-year 0.4fte fellowship programme which provides concentrated research time for the fellow,
 including to work on larger external bids: Vathi was appointed fellow in 2020
 The principal means to provide EHU staff with internal research support is the Research
 Investment Fund (RIF) which can be match-funded by departments. Priority criteria include
 projects leading to the generation of external research bids and interdisciplinary impact-
 orientated research. ECRs, those returning from extended periods of leave/absence are also

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 prioritised. RIF monies can be used for a range of purposes, e.g. teaching relief (Foster, Vathi),
 research assistants (Hartill) and impact events (McGovern).
 Internal funding provides seed corn monies to encourage external bids (as detailed above) and
 advance the UOA’s impact strategy. While expanding the portfolio of external funding remains
 an ongoing challenge and future objective, RIF support leading to successful external bids has
 met with marked success. For example, Hartill received RIF monies (£3.5k) in 2014 for a project
 on ‘victim/survivor narratives of child sexual exploitation in sport’ and a further £25k later for a
 post-doctoral research assistant. This funding directly underpinned work leading to the
 substantial awards from the EACEA (CASES) and Sport England.
 RIF has underpinned the case studies. Vathi’s external funding record is founded on earlier RIF
 support provided for projects on returning Albanian migrants, belongingness for locals and
 migrants in Liverpool, and EU migrants in post-Brexit Britain. The latter directly formed the basis
 for the large-scale the external bids to the ESRC (2019) and Leverhulme (2020). Dissemination
 and networking impact opportunities have also been supported including EU-wide contacts
 developed from funded attendance at IMISCOE conferences (Spain, 2014, 2018, Netherlands,
 2017) - Europe’s largest network of migration/integration scholars. McGovern was funded to
 provide a briefing to the US Congress House Foreign Affairs Committee and deliver public talks
 in Ireland and the USA (New York, Philadelphia, Boston, 2019).
 Internal funding also supports emerging impact profiles. Moore received RIF-funding to develop
 reports on professional practice, sexual consent and vulnerable groups – a gap she had
 identified and which led to engagement with various professional bodies on autism and sexuality
 issues (e.g. National Autistic Society, invited to chair their inaugural conference on sexuality,
 2019). Her reports informed Autism Initiatives (AI) assessment submissions to OFSTED and the
 Care Quality Commission and Moore sits on AI’s newly-established working group implementing
 her recommendations on sexuality training for all new and key staff. Engagement with the British
 Institute of Learning Disabilities (BILD) (e.g. developing tenders for autism training for
 health/social care staff) led to Moore acting as the academic development partner for the Oliver
 McGowan Mandatory Learning Disability and Autism Training trial, funded by Health Education
 England (2020). RIF funding allowed Twine to further his impact-orientated work on human-
 animal relations, veganism and sustainability by delivering papers for the European Association
 for the Study of Science and Technology (EASST) (Spain, 2016) and the European Association
 for Critical Animal Studies, (Spain, 2019).
 EHU appointed a Research Impact Manager to advise and support the development of
 research impact. This has included regular meetings to discuss impact strategy with department
 research leaders (e.g. McGovern), REF3 impact researchers (McGovern, Vathi), others with
 established impact profiles (e.g. Hartill, Lang) and to help foster and develop research impact
 more widely (e.g. Foster, Moore, Twine).
 Research governance and integrity
 EHU’s research governance infrastructure promotes and ensures research integrity (see
 REF5a). All research projects are subject to ethical scrutiny. They must conform to all legal and
 professional requirements, adhere to all relevant and applicable EHU codes (e.g. the Code of
 Practice for the Conduct of Research, Undertaking Research with Children and Young People)
 and meet the University commitment to the Concordat for Research Integrity. Staff must register
 all research via a centralised, online ethics review system to ensure consistency and
 transparency. Projects undergo departmental review for development purposes and then formal
 review (in most cases) by the Social Sciences Research Ethics Committee (SSREC: chair

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 McGovern). Where appropriate projects may also be scrutinised by the Education or Health-
 related RECs. The SSREC is a sub-committee of the University Research Ethics Sub-
 Committee (URESC). SSREC scrutiny involves trained committee members beyond the
 department where the research is located to ensure independence of the review process.
 Regular training sessions on research ethics are part of the Researcher Development
 Programme and chairs of RECs are available to offer guidance.

    4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Support for research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 The work of the unit is very much engaged with social issues and working closely with partners
 is a key part of how we develop our research and ensure that is has impact. Staff are
 encouraged, therefore, to establish networks and the unit encourages this through the centres
 and institutes. Supporting and enhancing effective research collaborations, networks and
 partnerships is a key objective of the Institute for Social Responsibility (ISR) since its inception.
 In her role as ISR Associate Director (External Relations), Foster has spearheaded international
 networking initiatives, e.g. with Stellenbosch Business School (Cape Town) and the School of
 Public Administration, University of Central Florida. This included developing a PGR Diploma
 international module for non-profit leaders. Current tasks include enhancing ISR CPD provision
 with sessions taught by internal and external leaders thereby helping to develop links and
 networks for future research.
 Organising public seminar and lectures series develops networks and partnerships. The
 Institute, as I4P, launched with a public lecture by Prof. Richard Wilkinson (co-organised by
 Bunyan) and, since 2016, Foster has organised an annual public lecture series (e.g. ‘What
 makes a good society’, in collaboration with the Webb Memorial Trust). She also serves on the
 organising committee of EHU’s annual Festival of Ideas (FOI) which involves a month of
 debates, films, exhibitions, roundtables and performances. As part of ISR’s contribution (50+
 events in 2018), Foster has organised initiatives specifically encouraging cross-disciplinary
 collaboration and stakeholder engagement and Cockburn, Greenough, Hartill, Simpson and
 Twine have also hosted FOI public events. The MWG-NW has organised activities as part of
 Action for Refugees, a University-wide initiative created in 2016 to support migration
 humanitarian work. Events have included a 2017 conference (supported by ISR) bringing
 together academics, activists and members of refugee communities to explore avenues for
 engaged research and an international online symposium (Return Migration: Implications for
 Policy and Practice, 2020) organised and chaired by Vathi.
 Cockburn, through the Children, Young People and Social Change Research Network (CYPS),
 has coordinated the European Sociological Association Research Network ‘Sociology of
 Children and Childhood’. He is currently a network board member and co-organised their
 conference streams (2014-2016). Coppock is a member of the European Educational Research
 Association Network ‘Research on Children's Rights in Education’ and the Research Recovery
 Network (King’s College, London). She is an expert adviser for Child Studies research at
 Linköping University, Sweden, collaborates with international colleagues (e.g. Prof Brenda Le
 Francois, Memorial University, Canada) and UK practitioners (e.g. Tony Stanley, Chief
 Children’s Social Worker, Birmingham City Council) and engages in relevant network events
 (e.g. PREVENT colloquium, East London, 2016). Coppock was also an invited member of a
 Horizon-2020-funded, EU-wide network (PROMISE: PROMoting Youth Involvement and Social



                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Engagement) and co-founded and co-leads the international Psychiatrised Childhoods Network
 (2015-ongoing).
 Collaboration with non-academic, stakeholder organisations is an important strand of impact
 orientated research. For example, McGovern’s case study is founded on long-term
 collaborations with victims’ organisations and representatives (e.g. Relatives for Justice), human
 rights groups (e.g. Committee on the Administration of Justice, Pat Finucane Centre) and human
 rights lawyers (e.g. Kevin Winters Solicitors, Broudie, Jackson and Canter Solicitors). Similarly,
 the work of the CPSS is founded on relationships with non-academic bodies identified below.
 Emerging portfolios of impact also rely on academic and non-academic collaborations. Sage
 works on employment policy and well-being issues with colleagues at Queen Mary and Sheffield
 Hallam and non-academic organisations (Policy Network, Bertelsmann Stiftung, Germany).
 Developing work on professional practice and elder intimacy needs, Simpson has provided
 leadership in both academic (e.g. Older People’s Understanding of Sexuality Interdisciplinary
 Research Group) and non-academic networks (e.g. the Older People Sex and Intimacy Forum,
 involving service providers, local authority staff and campaign groups). Twine has developed
 international academic collaborations (e.g. Australia, Sweden and Finland, as co-founder of the
 European Association for Critical Animal Studies) with his research on human-animal relations,
 veganism and sustainability. This work is also built on active engagement with animal
 rights/vegan advocacy groups (Secretary of Minding Animals International, 2011-2017, Chair of
 the research advisory committee of the Vegan Society, 2014-ongoing).
 ECRs are encouraged to develop collaborations and networks: Greenough works with
 international colleagues (e.g. Auckland, New Zealand) and is a member of the Sheffield Institute
 of Interdisciplinary Biblical Studies and the Shiloh Project, which explores gender violence,
 culture and religion. He also co-organised a regional public event on ‘Queer faith voices’ with the
 Diocese of Liverpool, Homotopia and Liverpool Queer Collective; Moran’s diverse projects on
 migrant families, young people’s social spaces and environmental policies has been developed
 through collaborations with academics (University College, Dublin, National University of Ireland,
 Galway) professional stakeholders (Teagasc: Agriculture and Food Development Authority, the
 Office of Public Works) and international bodies (Eurochild, UNESCO and UNICEF Innocenti).
 Wider contributions to the economy and society
 Reflecting our overarching ethos to work with and for marginalised social groups, many staff
 have undertaken impact-orientated research that make a significant wider social contribution.
 Along with global academic partnerships (e.g. universities of Antwerp, Bucharest, Vienna,
 Okayama and Toronto), the work of Hartill and Lang in the CPSS on child abuse and gender in
 sport is built on long-term engagement with key national and international organisations (e.g. the
 English Football Association and the International Olympic Committee (IOC)) and developing
 research outcomes contributing to the work of a wide range of national/international
 stakeholders. The VOICE project developed practice-based resources in collaboration with
 survivors (translated into several languages) that have been used by various UK national bodies
 (e.g. Director of Children and Young People, Sport England/NSPCC Child Protection in Sport
 Unit, National Working Group (NWG) Child Sexual Exploitation (CSE) Response Unit) and
 beyond (e.g. the Korean Institute for Gender Equality Promotion and Education (KIGEPE)).
 Further advocacy collaborations followed (e.g. Council of Europe, Ministry of Education, Science
 and Culture, German Sports Council, Austrian Sports Council). The work has impacted on policy
 development in several EU countries (e.g. Germany, Belgium).


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In 2017 Sport England invited the VOICE UK Acknowledgement Forum (established by Hartill
 and the NWG Network, 2017) to create a new Sport England Advisory Panel (SEAP). Expert
 consultancy, training resources and programmes on child protection policies have been provided
 to other key stakeholders (e.g. Amateur Swimming Association, British Cycling, Lawn Tennis
 Association, the Rugby Football League). Hartill was the invited expert for the Football
 Association Independent Inquiry into Allegations of Child Sex Abuse in Football (chaired by Clive
 Sheldon QC, 2017) and has joined a new FA Survivors Panel. He is a trustee of the Male
 Survivors Partnership.
 Research recommendations from Lang’s work on ‘gender-based violence in EU sport’ have
 been disseminated by (and informed EU-level policy of) the Council of Europe and European
 Commission. Research findings on ‘adult-child touch in sport’ have been taken up by national
 stakeholders (UK Coaching, NSPCC Child Protection in Sport Unit). A review report of the Home
 Office’s independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse was published (April 2020).
 Bunyan’s collaborative work under the auspices of ISR’s predecessor examined policy
 measures designed to tackle poverty and inequality (e.g. Fairness Commissions). This research
 was funded by the Webb Memorial Trust (total £35k) and the All-Party Parliamentary Group on
 Poverty. Resulting reports, launched in the House of Commons and acknowledged for their
 influence on policy-making (e.g. Carnegie Trust UK, 2017), have since informed numerous local
 authorities adoption of Fairness Commissions (e.g. Blackpool, Sheffield, Camden, Tower
 Hamlets). Direct consultation fed into the creation of the Liverpool City Region Fairness and
 Social Justice Advisory Board (2018). National dissemination events and seminars (Birmingham,
 Glasgow, Liverpool, Manchester, Newcastle, Swansea) involved local NGOs, poverty action
 groups, public sector, business and Fairness Commission representatives and focused on the
 impact of poverty on marginalised social groups (e.g. young and older people, ethnic minorities).
 Local NGOs (e.g. West Cheshire Food Bank) have since commissioned further work with ISR to
 inform ongoing poverty alleviation strategies.
 Co-author of the 2016 Sydney Declaration on Interspecies Sustainability, Twine was a key
 collaborator in the Veg*n Sustainability workshop (Australia), promoting initiatives for
 organisations to adopt sustainable diet policies. Work undertaken with the Vegan Society,
 reflecting his research examining ‘vegan transitions’, was featured in Vegetarian Living
 Magazine. Public talks given nationally (Brighton, Manchester, London) and internationally
 (Australia, Sweden, Finland) seek to influence people’s views on climate change. Sage’s
 research on Universal Basic Income and active labour market programmes, unemployment and
 health has been shared with non-academic audiences (including World Economic Forum). A
 report on ‘Young People at Risk: Challenges and Policy Options for the UK’ was launched at
 Westminster, co-hosted by Policy Network and Bertelsmann Stiftung (2016). Foster’s arts and
 community-based collaborative research also pursues social justice goals. CULTIVATE
 highlighted the educational and sustainability benefits of community farms. Schoolchildren were
 recruited and trained as co-researchers to evaluate interventions to counter gang violence
 (Drama-based Crime Prevention), followed by an invited talk for the Chief Nursing Officer’s
 Black and Minority Ethnic Strategic Advisory Group Annual Conference.
 Research base influence, contribution and recognition
 The unit’s reputation has been evidenced in staff membership of expert groups, panels and
 advisory bodies. These include Coppock, who was a member of an International Expert Group
 for World Health Organisation Collaborating Centre (Switzerland) and has been visiting
 professor at Linköping University, Sweden. Green served on an International Expert Panel for

                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Committee for the Study on Institutional Child Abuse, established by Dutch Government at
 the Hague (2019). Hartill has been a member of several expert panels, including the Sport
 England Advisory Panel and (with Lang) the Council of Europe Pool of European Experts on
 Sexual Violence in Sport and Task Group on Safeguarding and Protecting Talented and Elite
 Young Athletes for UK Coaching. Hartill has also acted as a consultant to Football Association’s
 ‘Survivor Group’ and served as the Child Protection in Sport expert for Football Association's
 Independent Review of Child Sexual Abuse Allegations. Lang continues as a member of the
 NSPCC/Sport England Child Protection in Sport Unit.
 Staff who have received prizes and awards include Bunyan, awarded the John Stewart Prize
 for Best Article by the Local Government Studies Journal (2015) and Sam Aaronovitch Memorial
 Prize by Local Economy: The Journal of the Local Economy Policy Unit. Hartill received a
 Diamond Award (2018) from the NWG Network for his work with victims of child sex abuse in
 sport.
 Invitations to deliver keynote and plenary talks at other universities internationally evidence
 expertise and substantial research standing within the academic community. This includes
 Cockburn (universities of Prague; Ghent; and Hildesheim), Hartill (University of Rekjavik),
 Lang (Pompeu Fabra University), Simpson (Barcelona University), Twine (universities of
 Lisbon; Sydney; Krakow; Gothenburg; and Helsinki) and Vathi (universities of Lisbon; Padua;
 Geneva and Jinan).
 Likewise, invitations as keynote speakers for public events for public bodies, professional
 organisations (and conference organisation) demonstrate research reputation within and
 beyond the academy. Coppock has been an invited speaker for the All-Party Parliamentary
 Group on Social Work at Westminster and a World Health Organisation Collaborating Centre
 research workshop held at the Brocher Foundation, University of Lausanne, Switzerland. Hartill
 was an invited speaker to the inaugural conference of Safe Sport International (Madrid), to the
 Council of Europe Conference on Sexual Violence against Women and Children in Sport (hosted
 by the Presidency of Finland), an international conference organised by the Korean Ministry of
 Gender Equality and Family and, with Lang, organised a special symposium for the New
 Direction in Sex Offenders Practice national conference and delivered the keynote address for
 the National Organisation for the Treatment of Abusers national conference. Lang was also
 invited to the Council of Europe’s launch of an expert pool on gender-based violence in sport
 (Netherlands), an inaugural international symposium hosted by the Japanese National Institute
 of Fitness and Sports and for the GB Rugby Football Union annual conference, while also
 chairing the conference steering committee for the British Sociological Association (BSA) Sports
 Study Group PG Forum annual conference (2015). McGovern’s work on collusion and
 accountability led twice to invitations to British Academy roundtables on ‘Violence’ (London,
 2018, 2019) and as a keynote speaker at events organised by human rights/victims’ NGOs in
 Northern Ireland, including the Pat Finucane Centre, Belfast Homecoming Conference, Bloody
 Sunday March for Justice, Relatives for Justice ‘Harms to Rights’ conference, Pat Finucane
 Anniversary Lecture and Bloody Sunday Trust. Moran was invited to speak at the Tavistock
 Institute, while Simpson was an invited speaker for the UK Dementia Congress, the CQC
 Equality and Human Rights Staff Network, Comic Relief/Age UK and a CQC Inspectors
 conference. Twine’s active engagement with animal rights and sustainability concerns led to
 invitations to speak at public events in Helsinki, Gothenburg, for Vegfest, Veganlife Live and the
 Northern Vegan Festival and organising conferences of the CfHAS.




                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Contributing to the wider research base and discipline sustainability is evidenced via invitations
 to act as reviewers of funding bids for major funding bodies nationally and internationally.
 This has included Cockburn (Academy of Finland INVEST programme; Social Sciences and
 Humanities Research Council (SSHRC, Canada); Leverhulme), Coppock (Swedish Research
 Council), Lang (International Olympic Committee; Economic and Social Research Council
 (ESRC)), McGovern British Academy; ESRC), Twine (ESRC; SSHRC (Canada), ResearchNet
 (Canada) and the Wellcome Trust and Vathi (EU: Horizon 2020).
 Membership of editorial boards and journal editorial roles helps foster the disciplinary
 research environment. Membership of journal editorial boards include Lang (Irish Journal of
 Sociology; International Journal of Sport and Health, International Journal of Organisational
 Diversity, Journal of Sports Pedagogy and Physical Education, International Journal of Sport and
 Society, Journal of Sporting Cultures and Identities and Network (British Sociological
 Association), Moore (Journal of the International Network of Sexual Ethics and Politics), Sage
 (Journal of Social Policy and Social Policy and Society) and Simpson (Sociological Research
 Online). Twine has been an editor for a Brill book series on Critical Animal Studies and
 Greenough is editor of the Sheffield Journal of Interdisciplinary Biblical Studies.
 Public dialogue and knowledge of critical social issues is enhanced through media appearance
 and contributions; these include Hartill (BBC TV News, Sky TV News, Victoria Derbyshire,
 BBC Radio 5 Live, BBC Radio Lancashire and Manchester, The Economist, Deutchslandfunk
 Radio), Lang (BBC Radio 4 Today show, The Guardian, BBC Sport Online, BBC Radio
 Merseyside) and McGovern (BBC Radio Ulster, Irish News, Irish Voice (US), Irish Echo (US)).




                                                                                             Page 15
