Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Birkbeck, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 21 (Sociology)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context and structure

 Established in 2009, Birkbeck’s Department of Psychosocial Studies has been central to
 establishing psychosocial studies as a vibrant, growing, international and transdisciplinary
 sociological formation with connections to disciplines and fields across the interpretive social
 sciences and humanities. The first UK sociology department to focus on the critical role played
 by psychosocial factors in the development, structure, and functioning of human society, giving
 rigorous attention to the dynamic interplay between the internal and external dimensions of
 human experience, it has grown significantly and diversified its disciplinary base, which now
 incorporates a vibrant mix of anthropology, cultural studies, education, critical psychology, as
 well as sociology, psychoanalysis and clinical practice. Our research reconsiders phenomena
 and concepts that are central to social scientific disciplines (such as power, ‘otherness’,
 violence, memory) by unfolding their socio-political and psychological constitution, offering new
 means of conceiving and investigating these phenomena empirically and theoretically.

 Within Birkbeck, the Department has provided a unique interdisciplinary locus. In previous
 REF/RAE cycles, it formed the core of a larger institutional Sociology return, which, for example,
 included several staff now submitted in the Geography return. In anticipation of REF2021, the
 College took the strategic decision that the Department would be the principal focus of its next
 Sociology return. This decision acknowledges that psychosocial studies is now recognised as a
 vital field of sociological inquiry, and the broadening social science specialisms of our staff.
 Thus, our sociology return is now departmentally focussed, with a headcount of 19 (a 27%
 increase on the 15 scholars from the Department within Birkbeck’s wider REF2014 Sociology
 return).

 The Department, which sits within the School of Social Sciences, History and Philosophy
 (SSHP), is nourished by close relationships (both intellectual and operational) with three cross-
 College institutes: Birkbeck Institute for Social Research (BISR), Birkbeck Institute for the
 Humanities (BIH), and the Pears Institute for the Study of Antisemitism (Pears), as detailed
 below in 3.3. Departmental staff provide leadership for these centres as well as having
 representation on their steering groups and management committees: BISR was directed by
 Callard (2016-2020); Žižek is international director of BIH; and McGeever was Acting Associate
 Director of Pears in 2018. We lead the cross-School MPhil/PhD programme in Sociology, Social
 Research MRes programme and the Psychosocial and Sociology pathways for all institutions in
 our ESRC doctoral training partnership (UBEL), and direct the College’s PGR statistics training
 provision.

 Our contributions to sociology are rich and varied, including: (i) advancing psychosocial
 theory: building decolonial and postcolonial studies; gender and sexuality studies; studies of
 affect, temporality and relational ethics; and social and cultural applications of psychoanalysis;
 (ii) empirical and theoretical social research: including on care; the maternal; violence and
 trauma; human rights; social (in)justice and (in)equalities; race, racialization, racism and hate –
 including antisemitism and Islamophobia; mental health; psychotherapy and psychoanalysis;
 and transformations in education; (iii) critical social research methods: including
 ethnographies and autoethnographies of place, culture and community; experience as a site of
 knowing and knowledge production; creative, visual and practice-based methods; archival
 methods; and mixed methods.




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2. Research and impact strategy

 1.2.1 Research strategy 2014-2020

 Since 2014, our research strategy has been focused on continuing to define research agendas
 in four key areas, pushing boundaries and challenging established paradigms:

       Violence and care
       Gender and sexuality
       Racialisation
       Psychoanalysis beyond the clinic.

 Understanding violence and care is fundamental to both psychosocial studies and the
 sociological mission to understand the functioning of human society. Key contributions in the
 period includes work reconceptualising these concepts (Baraitser, Frosh, Harman, Jacobs,
 Palacios, Segal, Seu), alongside funded research and policy engagement on post-conflict
 situations and human rights in the global South (Frosh, Palacios, Posocco, Seu), racialised
 violence and policing in the UK (Gidley, Narayan) and health and especially mental health
 systems (Baraitser, Fugard, van der Zaag).

 Our work on gender and sexuality draws both from a psychoanalytic feminist tradition
 foregrounding the maternal (a field on which our intellectual contribution has been major – e.g.
 Baraitser, Jacobs, Lewis, Tugwell) and sociological perspectives (e.g. van der Zaag on the
 materialities of sex; Posocco on queer theory; Brooks-Gordon on sex work). Our work on
 racialisation draws particularly on postcolonial traditions and includes work on contemporary
 urban identities (Gidley, Narayan), blackness and black studies (van der Zaag), antisemitism
 (Frosh, Gidley, McGeever) and decolonial critique (Harman, Narayan, Palacios, Posocco, van
 der Zaag).

 The Department has a reputation for ground-breaking work taking psychoanalysis and its
 critique to social, political and aesthetic questions (e.g. Baraitser, Frosh, Jacobs, Palacios, Seu,
 Žižek), while also drawing on this theoretical innovation to reshape clinical practice (e.g. Green,
 Frosh, Spurling).

 To deliver this strategy, we defined the following objectives:

 1. To provide leadership in knowledge exchange and public engagement methodologies,
    including through a new Centre for Social Change and Transformation in Higher Education
    alongside our continuing engagement with the Birkbeck Institutes;
 2. To increase the number and value of PhD studentships, and to attract more high calibre full-
    time students;
 3. To provide leadership to the College in developing social research methods;
 4. To improve our grant-writing culture;
 5. To develop and promote the distinctive Birkbeck school of psychosocial studies through active
    field-building leadership, nationally and globally.

 These objectives were delivered in these ways:

 1. Centres of public engagement

 Our approach to knowledge exchange is articulated in section 1.2. Public engagement with
 research has developed significantly in the College over the census period, much driven by work
 from the Department. Four of our projects were recognised by Birkbeck’s Public Engagement
 Awards, set up with the UKRI-funded Birkbeck Researchers' Engagement Development project
 (PI Zukas): Brooks-Gordon’s Calculating The Number Of Sex Workers And Their Contribution
 To the Non-observed Economy in the UK (2018 Winner, Transforming Culture); Soreanu’s
 ‘Balint Groups’ And The Patient-Doctor Relationship (shortlisted 2018, Collaboration); Baraitser’s

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Waiting Times (2019 winner, Engaged Practice); McGeever and Gidley’s work on antisemitism
 education (2020 winner, Transforming Culture).

 The Centre for Social Change and Transformation in Higher Education (CSCTHE) was
 launched in 2015. It hosts guest speakers and public lectures which expand our critically
 orientated research on higher education, adult learning, and education policy, and is nationally
 recognised as a key forum for these debates.

 In addition to our work with the Birkbeck Institute for Social Research (see section 3.3), the Unit
 continues to collaborate closely with the globally renowned Birkbeck Institute for Humanities and
 we have strengthened our collaborations with the Birkbeck Institute for the Moving Image
 (BIMI) (e.g. Jacobs’ two 2018 screening and discussion series Contested Conditions and RAW:
 Cannibalism, Feminism, Philosophy & (post-)Psychoanalysis, and Lewis and van der Zaag’s
 2019 symposium Tongues Untied: Queer Inscriptions, Black Becomings): this has extended our
 expertise in visual and digital research methods and in practice-based research. One of our
 practice-based doctoral students is co-located at the Institute.

 Four Unit members are affiliated with Pears, which acts as a hub for research and public
 engagement on antisemitism as well as interdisciplinary research-based teaching on
 racialisation across the College. As the only centre in the UK focused on this topic, in addition to
 highly regarded research outputs, it organises events, media interventions and fundraising
 including a public talks/events programme drawing more than 1,000 people every year.

 2. Doctoral community

 We have taken a four-pronged approach:

        We have proactively included PhD scholarships into grant applications where possible
         (e.g. Baraitser’s Wellcome Trust collaborative award and Frosh’s Dangoor Education
         award);
        We have ensured the Department’s participation in ESRC and AHRC doctoral training
         partnerships, leading to significant success (in 2019, for example, we were awarded
         two ESRC studentships, and one AHRC; in 2020 we were awarded a further two ESRC
         studentships);
        We have supported colleagues and students to apply successfully for other
         studentships – including internal Birkbeck studentships, Bloomsbury College
         Studentships and Bonnart Trust studentships focusing on race and social justice;
        We have supported international students to gain funding from their home
         governments (e.g. we now have two students funded by the Chilean government, and
         since 2014, have had numerous Visiting PhD students from Brazil, funded by Brazilian
         government bursaries, as well as one each from India and Ecuador).

 3. Social research methods

 A strategic new appointment (Fugard) to the role of Senior Lecturer in Social Science Research
 Methods was made in 2017, providing academic leadership for Social Research postgraduate
 programming in the College. Fugard set up and leads the Birkbeck Social Science Methodology
 Network, a cross-College network to discuss and develop interdisciplinary approaches to
 methodology (Brooks-Gordon is among recent presenters of work in progress). This
 complements and extends grassroots initiatives by research staff and students, such as the
 Mental Health Sociology seminar group, and BISR’s existing on-going programme of methods-
 focused events (e.g. a 2017 colloquium on ethnographic encounters).

 4. Grant-writing culture

 Across the census period we have taken a more strategic and proactive approach to grant
 funding, as described in section 3.1.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 5. A Birkbeck ‘school’ of psychosocial studies

 The Department, notably Frosh, has played a key role in the development of psychosocial
 studies as a distinct field linking sociology and related disciplines, including psychology,
 anthropology, feminism, postcolonial studies and queer studies. Psychosocial studies has
 implications in professional practice across a wide area, including through a more socially-
 oriented approach to professional psychoanalysis and therapy. Birkbeck colleagues have built
 an increasingly well-recognised field of scholarship, education, training and publishing, through
 the development of new programmes and departments, journals and book series, and learned
 societies. Our contributions to the ‘Birkbeck school’ of psychosocial studies culminated in
 our hosting the 2019 Association for Psychosocial Studies (APS) conference, which coincided
 with our tenth anniversary and Bristol University Press adopting the APS’s Journal of
 Psychosocial Studies.

 Studies in the Psychosocial (a Palgrave book series co-edited by Frosh) has published 38
 volumes since 2013, and Palgrave has commissioned Frosh to be Senior Editor of a new Major
 Reference Work (over 500,000 words) as a landmark text devoted to psychosocial studies. The
 Birkbeck school has an international impact; for instance, a 2020 special issue of the Journal of
 Psychosocial Studies devoted to the ‘American tradition of psychosocial studies’ noted the UK’s
 inspirational model, citing Frosh’s work as an example.

 1.2.2 Research Strategy 2021-26

 Over the next five years we will be to sustain our environment and enhance our vitality by
 building on the objectives outlined above, maintaining an inclusive research culture where
 everyone can contribute. Specifically, we will:

 1. Continue to define global research agendas in our key areas of violence and care, race and
    racism, gender and sexuality, and psychoanalysis beyond the clinic, recognising the role our
    research plays in providing tools to intervene meaningfully in the lives of the vulnerable and
    marginalised;
 2. Consolidate our role as the hub for sociological research at Birkbeck, expanding our
    sociology and social sciences provision;
 3. Expand our interrogation of areas of societal importance such as race, hate and identity,
    post-colonialism, and mental health;
 4. Continue to build our grant-making culture and our postgraduate and postdoctoral
    communities.

 1.2.3 Impact strategy 2014-20

 In 2014 our impact strategy was based on working in close dialogue with those who have a
 stake in our research, who are primarily policy makers and activists (including in clinical and
 medical settings) given the nature of our research. To do this we defined the following
 objectives:

 1. Invest in ensuring our research is impactful;
 2. Engage with media and public debates;
 3. Collaborate with non-academic partners.

 We have realised these as follows:

 1. Investing

 Since 2016 SSHP has employed an Impact Officer to support research in its departments. We
 work closely with the Impact Officer to develop strategies for impact and knowledge exchange,
 to establish and nurture productive relationships with non-academic partners, and to trace and
 document the impact of research once it has occurred. This approach has been successful, for

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 example, in supporting Seu’s work to embed the learning of her research on the crisis in caring
 in the practice of NGOs, as described in 4.2 below.

 2. Engaging

 We have engaged with the media to make high-profile contributions to public debates. Segal has
 published several op eds in The Guardian and elsewhere, e.g. on ageing and on care. In 2019
 McGeever was selected by BBC Radio 3, BBC Arts and the AHRC as a ‘New Generation
 Thinker’, leading to radio essays on the historical sociology of pogroms and prejudice (BBC Arts
 and Ideas podcast series). We routinely publish in policy-focused platforms such as the WonkHE
 blog (Callender), The Conversation (Gidley) and DiscoverSociety (Narayan).

 3. Collaborating

 Our case studies demonstrate how effective our researchers have been at influencing policy
 makers. Throughout this census period we have pro-actively engaged with policy-makers,
 practitioners and journalists; for example:

        Launches of two of Gidley’s publications (2018, 2019) were hosted by the All-Party
         Parliamentary Group Against Antisemitism.
        Stonewall invited Fugard to a roundtable at the Office for National Statistics discussing
         testing for the 2021 Census sex question.
        Harman organised How Might We Recognise The Value of Homecare Provision in 2020,
         with the Living Wage Foundation’s Campaign Manager among the speakers;
        NGO leaders engaged with (and subsequently championed) Seu’s Caring in Crisis
         project in 2017 including Glen Tarman, former International Advocacy Director at Action
         against Hunger, Paul Vanags, Head of Public Fundraising at Oxfam GB (who published
         an article outlining how NGOs have struggled with a ‘broken’ model of communication,
         suggesting that Seu’s 3M model offers a unique long-term solution); Sarah West, Head
         of Communications, Plan International UK; Naveed Chaudhri, Head of Campaigns at
         RESULTS, a UK-based political and policy advocacy campaign organisation; and Alison
         Carlman, Director of impact and communications at GlobalGiving.org who promoted
         Seu’s promoted Caring in Crisis as a guide for positive outcomes with the public and
         used Seu’s 3M model in recommendations for preventing donor fatigue.
        Waiting Times engages with a range of stakeholders (Hospiscare, Devon; Hanover
         Housing, Hackney; Tavistock and Portman NHS Trust; WESC Foundation Devon, two
         GP Surgeries in Devon and Hackney); and two artist-researchers (Deborah Robinson
         and Martin O'Brien) who have developed a live performance piece (Last Breath Society,
         ICA London) and the film Time Being (shown in September 2020 at MakeTank Exeter).
        For Reframing HIV Stigma, van der Zaag co-led a workshop on HIV stigma at the NGO
         SAATHII in New Delhi which included trans women, activists, HIV policy makers and
         local artists. Similar workshops were organised for 2020 in Havana, Nairobi and New
         York which have been postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic.

 1.2.4 Impact strategy 2021-26

 As with our research strategy, over the next five years we will continue to build on the objectives
 above, whilst also prioritising work with external partners to help alleviate the long-term impacts
 of the Covid pandemic for the most vulnerable through the provision of robust, evidence-based
 research findings.

 In addition, we will:

 1. Continue our approach to grant applications that thinks through and anticipates (resourcing
    for) pathways to impact.
 2. Utilise College resources (such as the Institutes) to enable dialogues with stakeholders to
    translate our research findings into policy and practice.

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Build new networks with non-academic partners working on mental health and the
    unconscious both within and outside the clinic.

 1.3 Interdisciplinary research

 Our unit – and the field of psychosocial studies – is inherently interdisciplinary. Many members
 of the unit are trained in more than one discipline (including as clinicians) and/or as
 interdisciplinary scholars. Working together across disciplinary differences is central to the
 precipitation of new research questions and approaches in our unit. We all deploy inter-, cross-,
 multi- and transdisciplinary methods in our own research, and members research
 interdisciplinarity as an epistemic object.

 This commitment to interdisciplinarity is reflected in our research structures. Birkbeck’s many
 interdisciplinary centres and institutes (3.3) foster vital trans-departmental work and support
 collaboration with researchers and practitioners in other departments and schools. For example,
 BISR supports the Psychoanalysis Working Group, directed by members of our unit, and the
 Birkbeck Gender and Sexuality forum (BiGs), a forum for innovative interdisciplinary
 collaboration and exchange in gender and sexuality studies (3.2). Posocco is a co-convenor of
 Birkbeck Centre for Iberian and Latin American Visual Studies (CILAVS) as well as an Associate
 Fellow of the Sexual Harms and Medical Encounters (SHaME) Research Hub based in the
 Department of History, Classics and Archaeology. At the PGR level, co-supervision across
 departments is common, and we have current co-supervised students with Film, Media and
 Cultural Studies, English, Geography, History, Classics and Archaeology, and Law.

 1.4 Open research environment

 Our central policy to promote access has relied on ‘green’ access through the institutional
 repository (BIROn), linked to each researcher’s web page. Members of the unit are encouraged
 to deposit all research materials – of whichever type and genre (e.g. video essays, quantitative
 data, blogs), including the underpinning data – in our institutional repositories, BIROn and BIRD.
 The scholarly journal we host, Studies in the Maternal, co-edited for the last decade by
 Baraitser, is published by the Birkbeck-led Open Library for the Humanities, a diamond OA
 platform. The College’s Research Data Support Manager provides advice about data
 management plans, paying due attention to principles of FAIR data storage, balanced with the
 ethical concerns associated with the sensitive subjects central to psychosocial research: we aim
 for data to be findable, accessible, interoperable and reusable, including use of non-proprietary
 formats and the use of Birkbeck’s data repository where appropriate – but appropriately weighed
 against the principles of integrity, honesty, confidentiality, voluntary participation and impartiality.

 1.5 Research integrity

 Our research follows Birkbeck’s Code of Practice on Research Integrity which ensures that our
 staff and students observe high standards of professionalism and ethical conduct as well as
 maintaining independence of thought. Our Departmental Research Committee has
 responsibility for ensuring good practice on a day-to-day basis, led by a departmental Research
 Director, reporting into the School’s Research Committee. These Committees are regular fora
 for open discussion of research methods and challenges, alongside our regular departmental
 research seminars.

 Reflecting our interdisciplinary team, our staff and students adhere to a range of specific codes
 of conduct (e.g. the BSA Statement of Ethical Practice, BERA’s Ethical Guidelines for
 Educational Research, the BPS Code of Ethics and Conduct). The Research Director is
 responsible for disseminating updates and new thinking in relation to such frameworks and
 standards.

 Our unit is particularly attuned to the demands and complexities of ethical research, given that
 we often address difficult and sensitive research topics including violence and care. We have a

                                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 robust structure for ethical review, with a rotating Departmental Research Ethics Officer (DREO,
 a role held by Posocco, Gidley and van der Zaag during this REF period) supported by a
 Departmental Ethics Committee and dedicated research ethics administrative staff member. The
 DREO in turn sits on both the Departmental Research Committee and the School Ethics
 Committee; the School ethics officer periodically reviews each department’s processes both to
 ensure rigour and to learn and share best practice across our social science departments (our
 last full audit was in 2019-20). All students and staff consider the ethical implications of the
 research they propose in relation to these formal governance mechanisms. Ethics training is fully
 embedded within our doctoral training. Challenging ethical issues that arise each term from staff
 and student research are a standing agenda item for the Ethics Committee.

 Staff and students engaged in clinically-oriented and/or health research are attentive to the
 differential demands of NHS and non-NHS ethics procedures and seek NHS ethical approval
 when appropriate. Our researchers use the reflexive ethos of psychosocial studies to be
 attentive to unequal power dynamics and the unpredictable psychosocial consequences of
 research. We actively contribute to debates and practice regarding ethical research and outputs
 in this submission explicitly reflect on the ethical complexities of psychosocial research methods.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 We remain committed to supporting all our researchers as individuals and collectively so each
 can pursue their own research interests, use and develop expertise in the methods they
 determine are most appropriate, and determine how best to disseminate the results of their
 research.

 Our staff recruitment strategy has focussed on disciplinary diversification (to enhance vitality),
 and succession planning. Since 2014, Psychosocial Studies at Birkbeck has appointed excellent
 researchers at all levels, extending our expertise in research on race, racism, and antisemitism,
 mental health, visual methods, and research methods. We have welcomed postdoctoral
 researchers.

 Five staff members have been promoted in the period; five (including one promoted twice) were
 female: Two to professor, one to reader, two to senior lectureships, and one to lecturer B. One
 secured a permanent appointment after an initial fixed term contract.

 In line with Birkbeck’s commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers, we have a robust mentoring system (see 3.2) and new colleagues additionally
 have a probation advisor. Mentoring and review systems are used to identify when staff would
 benefit from training. The College provides a comprehensive suite of training such as project
 management, time management, financial management. Staff have also undertaken externally-
 provided courses to support their research (e.g. on the use of secure data), and specialist
 trainings that amplify research agendas (e.g. psychoanalytic training at the Institute of
 Psychoanalysis). BISR (3.3) also offers initiatives to develop the knowledge base and skills of
 social researchers at all career stages, from PhD to professor, drawing on the expertise of
 colleagues at Birkbeck and outside. The Research Office organises workshops addressing
 various aspects of the process of developing research grant proposals, often with speakers from
 funders, and provides individualized support for all applicants alongside School Research
 Managers.

 All academic staff qualify for, and take, research leave (one term’s leave for every nine terms of
 service). Colleagues submit a clear research plan and report back on work completed during
 their leave. New lecturers are given a reduced teaching load and active probationary support; all
 have successfully completed probation. Administrative tasks rotate ensuring a fair sharing of
 responsibilities. Postdoctoral researchers are fully embedded within the research culture, often
 taking leadership roles.

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We consider the supervision of research students to be an important element of every
 academic’s research activities, with successful supervision an important consideration for
 promotion. Our insistence on co-supervision for all PhD students (see 1.3) ensures that
 colleagues who have not supervised to completion are paired with experienced supervisors who
 can mentor them.

 Staff benefit from~£100,000 institutional financial support for research:

   i.     an annual £700 School research fund for each member of staff, often used for
          conference attendance;
   ii.    an annual opportunity to top that up to £2,000 through a competitive application to the
          School;
  iii.    a College Impact Seed Fund, with up to £10,000 available per department;
  iv.     a competitive alumni-funded Research Innovation Fund accepting applications for up to
          £5,000 as seed-funding for new projects;
   v.     the Birkbeck Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF), supporting
          medical humanities work;
 vi.      annual BIH and BIHR conference and colloquia funds and
 vii.     the Departmental Incentivisation Fund.

 Following our impact strategy (1.2.2), colleagues are supported through the Impact Fund and
 Public Engagement Awards to make links with relevant external stakeholders. Spurling, for
 example, has been consolidating collaborations with the (European) Comparative Clinical
 Methods Association and developing workshops with the British Psychotherapy Foundation – to
 bring his and others’ research on comparative clinical methods to psychoanalytic clinicians with
 a specific aim of enhancing the research and techniques of psychotherapists rather than
 psychoanalysts. This in turn enable us to make a serious contribution to society (4.2).

 2.2. Research students

 We host PhDs in Psychosocial Studies, Sociology and Gender alongside professional
 doctorates (see table for completions in this period). As of 31 October 2020, we have a
 flourishing community of 14 MPhil Psychosocial Studies, 2 MPhil Gender and Sexuality in
 Psychosocial Studies, 21 PhD Psychosocial Studies and 1 DPsych Child and Adolescent
 Psychotherapy. This includes both the part-time students whom Birkbeck has traditionally
 attracted, and a growing number of full-time home/ EU and international students (21 FT/14 PT)
 Our students have been supported by a wide range of funders, including AHRC, ESRC,
 Dangoor and Wellcome. Three have been funded as Graduate Teaching Assistants in the
 Department during the REF period.

                           2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20
  PhD                         9       6       7       2       5       4       7
  Professional
  Doctorate:
  Child and Adolescent
  Psychotherapy               1          1          1         1          1        0          2
  Professional
  Doctorate:
  Family and Systemic
  Psychotherapy               4          1          1         1          0        0          1

  Total                       14         8          9         4          6        4         10

 All research students are enrolled in the Birkbeck Graduate Research School, which provides
 an extensive range of workshops and courses from the start of the PhD to after completion, and
 students can access courses across Bloomsbury through the Bloomsbury Postgraduate Skills
 Network (BPSN).

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Students submit minutes of supervisory meetings, and progress is monitored at regular
 Departmental Postgraduate Research committees, to which supervisors submit written reports,
 and through a rigorous upgrade process involving written and oral presentations to a panel
 independent of supervisors.

 Doctoral students attend (mandatory) departmental doctoral seminars at which they present
 work in progress, as well as informal reading groups and an annual student conference in the
 summer and smaller, thematic groups such as on psychoanalytic theory and on practice-based
 research. All research students are strongly encouraged to contribute to BISR and BIH, and
 within departments, and to audit modules from the MA in Social Research, especially its Master
 Classes in Social Research Methods. BISR interns from the Department have played a major
 role in conceiving and organising major conferences such as The Art of Doing Nothing in 2019
 which featured high profile speakers such as Saidiya Hartman. New Voices in Psychosocial
 Studies (2019) is a collection of essays by Frosh’s past and current PhD students, and three
 doctoral students have produced research monographs in Studies in the Psychosocial: Somay’s
 The Psychopolitics of the Oriental Father (2015), Noel-Smith’s Freud on Time and Timelessness
 (2016); Sekechi’s Iranians in London: Voices of Exile (2018).

 2.3 Equality and diversity

 All the unit’s members contribute to advancing thinking and practice in relation to several
 intersecting arenas fundamental to equality and diversity. One of the core premises and
 contributions of psychosocial studies is to critique the invisibility of lines of difference and power,
 such as race and class, in classical psychoanalytic theory and in the culture of social research.
 Our scholars have therefore led efforts within our own institution and in the public sphere to
 address inequalities. Narayan, for example, convenes Birkbeck’s Race Forum focusing on race
 and racism, multiculture and postcoloniality, in symposia and public lectures, at which some of
 the most important academics in the field (e.g. Sara Ahmed, Les Back, Gargi Bhattacharyya,
 Catherine Hall) have spoken. Similarly, our close relationship with Pears, which has a mission to
 engage and educate as well as research and studies antisemitism in relation to other forms of
 racialisation, has led to specific policy interventions, discussed below, section 4.2.

 We take an intersectional approach to equality (our Emirita collegues Lewis and Brah have
 been central to the theorisation of intersectionality in the UK and globally) and our Summer
 Programme (where we have committed to ensuring the diversity of voices featured), Feminist
 Emergency conference and the Decolonizing Sexualities Network have been major showcases
 for queer of colour critique in the UK.

 Within the Department we have a departmental equality and diversity officer, who is working at
 School level towards Athena Swann accreditation and sits on our Research Committee to
 ensure that equality concerns are considered in all research matters. We are proud of our record
 of gender equality, with all academic staff grades and PhD students having a predominantly
 female gender split (our one Reader and three of our four Professors are women). We are
 working to ensure our PGR community reflects a similar diversity to that of our whole student
 body, and the 2019 Leading Routes report, The Broken Pipeline – Barriers to Black PhD
 Students was co-authored by one of our Department’s former students; that year Birkbeck
 launched its Diversity100 Scholarships for BAME PhD students.

 Workload and mentoring allocation and assessing needs for targeted support are done by the
 HoD ensuring staff with declared care responsibilities, chronic illness or disabilities are not
 disadvantaged.

 Selecting REF outputs has been done according to the Birkbeck REF Code of Practice, with
 standard REF EDI training for all departments. Requests for reduction of outputs are dealt with
 centrally and anonymously with no input at Department level. Each UoA panel in the University
 follows the same format and all discussion at these is solely about outputs, not the individuals
 who wrote them.

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 At the start of this census period, our strategy was to build our grant-writing culture and
 capacity, focusing on making more targeted approaches to specific funders (e.g. British
 Academy, UKRI, Wellcome Trust and other charities), and to spread expertise this more evenly
 across the Department. We have utilised internal funding mechanisms to build expertise in junior
 colleagues with less experience of grant capture, securing £83,000 from internal sources
 (detailed in 2.1). Within the Department, we run dedicated sessions on grant-writing and place
 particular emphasis on ensuring that our mentoring scheme builds our capacity in grant writing.
 Those with more familiarity with grants spend significant time assisting those with less
 experience: reading and reviewing multiple drafts, organizing appropriate peer review, and
 providing, where required, mock interviews supported by the Director of Research.

 This approach is leading to increasing success rates with key funders (in 2018-19, our success
 rate was 36%, up considerably from 17% from the previous year) and income from UK
 Government sources such as UKRI has grown seven-fold whilst income from UK and global
 charities has doubled. As this strategy has become embedded and matured, we have expanded
 our focus to bring in a wider range of funders, as demonstrated by our securing research income
 from the public sector for the first time in 2018. Taking our violence and care theme as an
 exemplar, key grant successes since 2014 include Waiting Times (Baraitser, Wellcome Trust
 Collaborative Award); Synchronic Entanglements and New Social Imaginaries: Anti-War
 Activism in Brazil and the UK (Soreanu, EU Marie Curie Fellowship); Ethical Monotheism (Frosh,
 Dangoor Education); a Wellcome Trust Fellowship in Medical Humanities (Soreanu); Data
 Worlds and Futures: Archives, Bioinformation and Evidence (Posocco, Wellcome Trust Small
 Grant); Reframing HIV Stigma: Towards a 5 Cities Research Programme (van der Zaag,
 Wellcome Trust Small Grant) alongside postdoctoral fellowships The Affective Afterlife of the
 Feminist Sex Wars on the US Campus (Jeffries, British Academy) and Communist Ghosts - On
 the crisis of European identities and contemporary art (Schmukalla, ESRC).

 3.2 Organisational Infrastructure

 The Department’s strategic research plan (1.2) is developed by the Departmental Research
 Committee and is shaped through annual Departmental research awaydays and regular
 Departmental research strategy forums, and includes continuously evolving plans for grant
 capture as discussed above (1.2.1, 3.1). The Department intends to build on its successful
 strategy to increase grant capture and to continue to make strategic use of internal funds as
 seed funding for pilot and proof-of-concept projects, to be leveraged towards larger grant
 applications with a more diverse portfolio of funders. The School Research Committee ensures
 best practice by bringing together research directors from six departments to discuss common
 problems and solutions affecting grant holders in areas such as employment of research
 assistants and other research support practices.

 Intra-departmental collaboration is encouraged through the social research networking and
 doctoral training partnerships described in 1.2.1 and institutions described in 3.3. Colleagues
 work together on specific projects (e.g. Gidley and Frosh on Ethical Monotheism), publications
 (e.g. the 2015 Psychosocial Imaginaries collection, whose ten chapters were each written by
 members of the department), and departmental research seminars. conferences and symposia
 (see 4.3), and form research teams with co-supervised PhD students. External collaborations
 are also supported, e.g. through co-investigation as with the Data Worlds and Waiting Times
 projects.

 The Department’s infrastructure includes an Assistant School Manager with responsibility for
 grant support and an admin officer responsible for research and ethics. A Start of Grant meeting
 is held with all PIs to ensure that data management, ethical guidance, equality and diversity as


                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 well as user engagement and knowledge exchange are fully planned. New PIs are offered
 training so they are equipped to ensure that projects are conducted with integrity.

 Mentoring training and support (2.1) is pursued assiduously. Mentors and mentees are matched
 based on experience (for example expertise in grant-acquisition, strategic planning). Our
 postdoctoral researchers are fully incorporated within this mentoring scheme.

 3.3. Facilities

 Since 2014, the Birkbeck Research Office has been increasingly well-resourced, providing
 valuable support for grant applications and management. It disseminates targeted funding
 opportunities, calculates costings and oversees the process of internal approval.

 The Department is supported by the institutional and interdisciplinary resources of BISR and
 BIH (each with a 0.5 Manager providing logistical and organisational support, and extensive
 contacts beyond Birkbeck). The Department is the founder and intellectual home of BISR, and
 this is one of the mechanisms by which the Department provides leadership in social research
 for the College. BISR is run day-to-day by an academic Director (allocated 0.2FTE for this role)
 and Manager (0.5FTE). Paid, fractional internships open to Birkbeck doctoral students provide
 additional support. The most recent review of its governance (2018) regularised PGR and ECR
 representation on its management, and a five-year strategic plan in 2019 launched its
 ‘experimental collectives’, which encourage applications from collaborative groups working
 across disciplines and thinking about engaged research in innovative ways; in 2020 Gidley has
 been involved in one successful application to this on Urban Intersections.

 All members of the Department are co-located in Russell Square, Bloomsbury. All full-time
 members of staff have an office in Russell Square and all part-time staff have access to shared
 office space. A student work room with study and IT facilities is provided for postgraduate
 research students. The Department is located a 2-minute walk from Birkbeck’s library which is
 increasing its number of study spaces and improving teaching facilities for academic skills
 workshops with £1.3 million spent on this project so far.

 In normal times, the UoA makes full use of its central London location for events and in
 accessing the huge range of activities among our University of London and Knowledge Quarter
 neighbours. Staff and students have at their disposal an enormous number of research
 workshops, training courses, seminars and lectures that are convened locally with numerous
 opportunities to forge productive associations across the Bloomsbury Colleges.

 Many colleagues make extensive use of the University of London (Senate House) libraries,
 other University of London libraries where we have access rights, and archival resources of
 nearby institutions (particularly Wellcome and the British Library, as well as the Tavistock and
 Portman NHS Trust). We use the resources of Birkbeck’s Derek Jarman Lab to create films in
 support of research projects, Birkbeck’s Peltz Gallery to showcase our work with visual artists
 (e.g. Palacios’ 2016 Tejas Verdes: I was not there, a collaboration with visual artist Livia Marin)
 and BIMI’s Cinema for the screenings mentioned above.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research collaborations

 We collaborate internationally. This includes through visiting posts outside the UK: Frosh has
 held visiting chairs at University of Witwatersrand and University of Sao Paolo, where he
 contributes to the annual Philosophy summer school. Every year we host visiting fellows and
 professors from abroad, including from Brazil, Turkey and the United States. Judith Butler holds
 a visiting professorship in our department and contributes to our Summer Programme, either as
 a public speaker or through workshops with our postgraduate researchers. Other visiting
 speakers in our high-profile Summer Programme series have included: Veena Das, Ranjana

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Khanna, Lata Mani, Chantal Mouffe, Meyda Yegenoglou. We have organized at least four
 national and international conferences and symposia every year (including Creativities of
 Protest: Imaginaries, Commons and Reparations, 2015; The Politics of Racism: A Symposium
 for John Solomos, 2017; Feminist Emergency, with keynotes by M. NourbeSe Philip, Drucilla
 Cornell, Leila Ahmed, 2017; Waiting Times’ The Social Life of Time: Power, Discrimination and
 Transformation, 2018; Necropolitics, Biopower and the Crisis of Globalisation, 2018; and
 CREHR’s Palestinian Childhoods: Human Rights, Mental Health and Resistance conference,
 including a keynote by Samah Jabr, Palestinian Ministry of Health’s Chair of Mental Health Unit,
 2019) and all UoA members give numerous conference papers every year, including at major
 international conferences such as the BSA, and at psychosocially-focused events such as the
 annual international Psychoanalysis and Politics conference series.

 All our staff have international networks. For example, Posocco’s research on transnational
 adoptions circuits and genocide in Guatemala involves collaboration with Guatemalan adoptees
 in Belgium and their legal team as they develop legal proceedings against those who trafficked
 them to Europe, whilst her Decolonizing Sexualities Network enriches the research environment
 by bringing junior scholars, artists and activists to London, and by contributing to summer
 schools (e.g. Middleburg Decolonial Summer School in the Netherlands). Similarly, Harman is a
 council member of Standing Conference on University Teaching and Research on the Education
 of Adults (SCRUTEA); a founding member of a new international network of adult educator
 researchers undertaking activist research projects; and a member of the newly formed
 Pedagogies of Hope Network. Van der Zaag’s research and events on HIV stigma involve artists
 and activists in India and South Africa. We work with mental health practitioners and activists in
 Palestine (Frosh, Segal, Seu), Brazil and Chile (Frosh, Palacios, Posocco, Seu) and China
 (Green).

 4.2. Contributions to the Economy and Society

 Contributions to ‘The Clinic’:

 Birkbeck’s long-standing accessible and rigorous clinical and counselling training has made us
 central to psychodynamic practice in the UK, and we are a centre of excellence. We bring the
 psychosocial approach developed in our research, foregrounding social structures of power and
 inequality, into clinical practice. This has fundamentally changed psychoanalytic and
 psychodynamic practice. Frosh is one of only eight Academic Associates of the British
 Psychoanalytical Society and was elected as one of the first two people with this status.

 We also provide clinical seminars/masterclasses and short courses, e.g. ‘Containment and
 Interpretation’ at the British Psychotherapy Foundation, the two-day international conference on
 The Balints and their World: Object Relations and Beyond (2018), and short courses on Ferenczi
 and on the Superego at the Freud Museum. Those we supervise for Professional Studies
 Doctorates have gone on to contribute to the psychotherapy professions and to NHS mental
 health services.

 Another key contribution to the clinic has been to use research to foreground user voices, thus
 radically reconfiguring provision. For example, Fugard was a joint winner of ‘Outstanding
 Academic Award’ from Recovery in the Bin (a user-led group for mental survivors and
 supporters) for their engaged and collaborative research on mental health.

 We disseminate our clinical expertise in global contexts. For example, we hosted
 masterclasses for the Círculo Psicanalítico do Rio de Janeiro (CPRJ) and Instituto de Psicologia
 da Universidade de São Paulo, Brazil. In China Green has developed the first systematic
 training for those working psychodynamically with children and adolescents; introduced English-
 language texts for translation into Mandarin; and has provided online clinical seminars. Frosh
 and Seu were consultants to Sedes Sapiendes, a Sao Paulo-based psychotherapy institute
 working with victims of state violence, as part of the Newton Fund’s collaboration Clinics of
 Testimony project.

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Contributions to care and humanitarianism:

 Harman has been developing work on new imaginaries of care, which includes homecare
 workers in the co-production of knowledge; Segal’s work on radical happiness has been cited by
 the World Economic Forum. Seu’s work on humanitarian communication has changed the way
 NGOs and fundraising organisations engage with donors, reshaping how major NGOs (including
 Action Against Hunger, Oxfam and Plan International UK) seek donations and engage with the
 public in building long term relationships. In 2017, Frosh and Seu contributed to a report for the
 UK’s Department for International Development (DFID) on providing psychosocial support for
 teachers and other school staff in protracted conflict situations which was picked up by major
 international bodies including the UN and WHO.

 Contributions to anti-racism:

 Our work has made a major contribution to combating racism in various ways, from influencing
 school curricula to informing national policy. For example, Narayan’s research informs national
 efforts to decolonise the curriculum and understand and address stark inequalities in British
 universities reflected in significant attainment and admissions gaps and she mentored former
 students to launch the Leading Routes initiative and its Black in Academia project. Her PhD
 student delivers a 22-week Race, Class & Society supplementary curriculum for sixth formers in
 South and East London.

 Gidley’s 2015 Sub-Report, Fifty days in the summer: Gaza, political protest and antisemitism in
 the UK, commissioned by the All Party Parliamentary Inquiry into Antisemitism (APPI), is a key
 document in the public policy debate over antisemitism in the UK. The APPI also invited him to
 give oral evidence and the final APPI report (2015) cites Gidley some 20 times. The findings and
 recommendations of the major pan-European research project, Antisemitism and Immigration in
 Western Europe, led by Pears with Gidley as a Co-Investigator, were presented at the Houses of
 Parliament in 2018 with over 50 attendees including parliamentarians, government officials and
 representatives from policy think tanks. Lord Bourne of Aberystwyth, Parliamentary Under-
 Secretary of State, publicly welcomed the report on behalf of the government and noted its
 importance for government policy, stating that ‘The findings of the study are having a direct
 impact on the shape of policy’.’

 Gidley and McGeever were part of a team at Pears who developed an educational programme
 on antisemitism for the general public which has been taken up by the Labour Party, the Trades
 Union Congress and the University and College Union (the latter postponed due to Covid).
 Dedicated sessions were held for Labour Party staff and National Executive Committee
 members. All participants reported that the course helped them to think critically about
 antisemitism, and 97% that the course was intellectually challenging and gave them a good
 understanding of the subject. In 2020, this team was invited to give evidence to the Labour
 Party’s Forde Inquiry. One of the largest political action groups in the UK, HOPE Not Hate,
 embraced this team’s conceptualisation of antisemitism, and cited it as a catalyst for launching
 their Archive initiative in July 2020. Articles by this team have been translated, e.g. by the
 Swedish Committee against Antisemitism, an NGO working to prevent and counteract
 antisemitism and racism.

 Contributions to critical pedagogy and to education policy:

 Our cluster of education researchers makes a major contribution to educational practice and
 policy. Callender’s research on student debt has had a major impact on national debates on how
 learning should be funded, influencing the wording of the 2017 Higher Education and Research
 Act and being widely cited, for example by the Augar Review, the Civic Universities Commission,
 the Education Select Committee in 2018, the CBI Skills Need on England report in 2018, the
 2019 WonkHE manifesto briefing, the 2019 Institute for Fiscal Studies HE note, and the
 Centenary Commission on Adult Education.


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.3. Contributions to the sustainability of the discipline and recognition by the wider
 research community

 We have externally examined theses both nationally and internationally, within sociology and
 other faculties. Universities include: Anglia Ruskin, Bristol, Cardiff, Durham, Edinburgh Napier,
 East London (and Tavistock Clinic), Essex, Exeter, Glasgow, Goldsmiths, King’s College
 London, Leeds, Leicester, LSE, Manchester Metropolitan University, Open University, Oxford,
 Plymouth, SOAS, Sussex, UCL, University of Wales, and York (within the UK); and Ghent,
 KwaZulu-Natal, Oslo, Paris Sorbonne, Rotterdam, Sydney, Tel Aviv, Toronto, New South Wales,
 and Witwatersrand (internationally). These include several clinical theses and programmes (e.g.
 DClin Psych, Tavistock and University of Essex).

 Department members contribute to learned and professional (including clinical) societies
 through membership of boards, running conferences, symposia, masterclasses and training.
 These include: Academy of Social Sciences, American Anthropological Association, Arbours
 Association for Psychoanalytic Psychotherapy, Association of Child and Adolescent
 Psychotherapy, British Academy’s Higher Education Policy Development Committee, British
 Psychoanalytical Society, British Psychoanalytic Council, British Psychological Society, British
 Psychotherapy Foundation, British Sociological Association, European Sociological Association,
 Guatemala Scholars Network, Human Rights Researchers Network, Institute of Group Analysis,
 Latin American Studies Association, Psychosocial Studies Network, and the Society for
 Research into HE.

 Callender and Frosh are fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences (AcSS), and Callender gave
 a keynote at its annual conference (2017); Gidley edits the website of its special interest group
 on Migration, Refugees and Settlement. Posocco has been recognised by anthropology learned
 societies globally: her Queering Knowledge was recently awarded the American Anthropological
 Association/Association for Queer Anthropology Ruth Benedict Prize, and she has been elected
 co-Chair of the European Association of Social Anthropologists' European Network for Queer
 Anthropology (ENQA). Gidley is a board member, and has been chair, of the European
 Sociological Association’s Research Network 31 on Racism, Antisemitism and Ethnic Relations.
 We have especially notable involvement in the Association for Psychosocial Studies: Roseneil
 was the first Chair, several staff are founding members, and we co-sponsored the annual
 conference in 2019.

 Among prizes and awards unit members have received, Callender was awarded an OBE in
 2017 for her services to education; Lewis an Honorary Doctorate from the Tavistock/University
 of Essex; and Segal an Honorary Professorship at City and Portsmouth universities.

 Colleagues actively contribute to the evaluation and examination of research: we sit on grant
 panels, chair prizes (e.g. 2020 AHRC/Wellcome Medical Humanities Awards), and act as peer
 reviewers and assessors for research funders both nationally and internationally. Members of
 the unit belong to both the AHRC and ESRC Peer Review College and act as peer reviewers
 and assessors for a wide range of research funders in the UK and overseas (including Nuffield
 Foundation, Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, Swiss National Science Foundation). We are
 regularly asked to provide advice and assessments on promotions, professorial and other
 appointments, and tenure cases (e.g. for York University and Queen’s University, Canada, as
 well as numerous universities in the UK).

 As well as academic keynotes in the UK, Brazil, Chile, Germany, Spain, South Africa, Sweden,
 Turkey and the US (Baraitser, Callender, Frosh, Gidley, Lewis, Posocco, Segal, Seu), our staff
 are frequently invited to give keynotes to professional audiences. For example, Spurling
 regularly gives keynotes to psychotherapy and counselling conferences (e.g. Scientific meeting
 of the British Psychotherapy Foundation on ‘Clinical Training’, 2019); Seu has given keynotes to
 events for NGO CEOs hosted by the International Development organisation BOND and the
 International Broadcasting Trust; Fugard has given a keynote at Northampton’s annual CAMHS


                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services) conference in 2016; and Palacios has given an
 invited keynote lecture at Harvard’s Graduate School of Design in 2016.

 We make a major contribution to scholarly editing. We are editors, consulting editors or sit on
 editorial boards of journals at the heart of psychosocial studies and within other social scientific
 and humanities disciplines (e.g. American Imago, Ethnic and Racial Studies, Feminism and
 Psychology, International Journal of Human Rights, Jewish Quarterly, Journal of Feminist
 Anthropology, Journal of Latin American and Caribbean Anthropology, Journal of Psychosocial
 Studies, New Formations, MAMSIE: Studies in the Maternal, Men and Masculinities, Monitor:
 Global Intelligence on Racism. Psychoanalysis, Culture & Society, Psychoanalytic
 Psychotherapy, Psychodynamic Practice, Quaderns de Psicologia/International Journal of
 Psychology, Studies in Gender and Sexuality, Studies in the Education of Adults, Subjectivity).
 We regularly peer review for several other social science journals and regularly review
 manuscripts for university and other presses in the UK and North America. Unit members edit
 book series including Theorizing Ethnography: Concept, Context, Critique (Routledge) and
 Studies in the Psychosocial (Palgrave).

 The research strategy (1.2) indicates how we will consolidate this internally recognised
 distinctive sociological orientation to continue building collaborative, interdisciplinary and policy-
 relevant research.




                                                                                                Page 15
