Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Robert Gordon University
 Unit of Assessment:
 UoA34: Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and Information Management
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 The School of Creative and Cultural Business at Robert Gordon University was established in
 2016 and its research activities cover the range of disciplines across the communication, cultural
 and media studies, library and information management unit of assessment. The School was
 created with the coming together of the Department of Communication, Media and Marketing and
 Department of Information Management in the former Aberdeen Business School. Much of the
 School’s research activity has developed out of the Information and Communication Group (ICG)
 outlined in REF2014, but it has been broadened and enriched by the emergence of research
 activity in other areas to include creative industries and cultural studies such as events
 management, fashion management (often both with a strongly cultural focus), as well as digital
 communication and participation in society, including social media, political engagement online,
 and journalism. The library and information management theme includes research activity in areas
 such as user behaviours and skills, information literacy, managing information assets, and
 information environments, all of which remain present in current research activity; but, with the
 creation of the new school in 2016, the research activity has broadened. This includes a theme
 around digital communication and participation in society, which includes work examining political
 communication, social media, and individuals’ engagement with online technologies; as well as
 another theme around the creative industries and cultural studies, which includes social, economic
 and cultural aspects around events, fashion, tourism management. All three thematic areas
 interconnect and overlap, as is demonstrated by the range of outputs discussed later. Across all
 three aspects, gendered themes as well as historical ones are also explored. The School’s
 research activities are conducting following the highest ethical principles through its own School
 Ethics Committee and with reference to appropriate professional standards (such as CILIP).
 Quality and integrity are assured through RGU’s Ethics policy and procedures, including
 mandatory self- and peer-review of all research proposals, governed by the Research
 Committee’s Ethics Sub-Committee. All research outputs are available through Open Air, the
 University’s open access repository.

 The period covered by this Research Excellence Framework marked significant changes and
 transitions for Robert Gordon University institutionally, and for the region of North-East Scotland.
 The School, like the University more generally, plays an important part in the vibrancy of the North-
 East Scotland area and, indeed, across Northern Scotland. The School’s research seeks to
 contribute strongly in regional, national and international contexts by carrying out activities that
 are impactful on individuals, communities and societies. The REF period has coincided with a
 time of major regional change, including from oil and gas to renewable energies, greater
 acknowledgement of the role of culture and the creative economy in the region, and the
 emergence of a strong innovation element in the Aberdeen City and Region Deal and through the
 creation of Opportunity North East (ONE) as catalysts for transformational economic change.

 In 2015-16, the University concluded that there was a need to strengthen the vitality and
 sustainability of research across the University and that this REF period would be one of re-
 building and re-shaping, with the aim of establishing a more vibrant interdisciplinary research
 culture. This reorganisation led to the creation of the School as outlined above. The faculty
 structure was removed along with their own independent Graduate Schools and the three
 Research Institutes (Institute for Health and Welfare, Institute for Management, Governance &
 Society, Institute for Innovation, Design & Sustainability). This submission was previously part of
 the Institute for Management, Governance and Society (IMaGeS). Although the previous institutes
 did good work, there was a feeling that they had unintentionally inhibited internal inter-disciplinary
 research, and that there was, perhaps, a perception that research could be seen as somehow
 separate from the other main activities and functions of the faculties as a whole. Whilst this was
 less true in the areas of this submission, where there were pre-existing links, the restructuring was
 nonetheless welcomed, and has resulted in a much-enhanced inclusive culture of collaboration
 with, for example, stronger partnerships with the Schools of Computing, Architecture and Art.


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Central to the ethos of the School of Creative and Cultural Business is this sense of being a
 multidisciplinary school covering a wide portfolio of undergraduate, postgraduate and research
 degrees across the communication, media and digital industries, and related fields. This
 multidisciplinary approach strongly extends to research activity, and the disciplinary broadening
 of research over this period is reflected in the outputs and the people submitted.

 The Head of School (Royle) is responsible for strategic direction of all activities and is accountable
 via one of the University’s Vice-Principals and the Executive for the School’s deployment of
 research resources, the institutional research strategy, and research performance, balancing
 these with the provision of excellent teaching. The School has four Academic Strategic Leads,
 with Gray being responsible for leading, managing and developing research activities; he has a
 strong background in securing European research funding, around transport and transport policy,
 and in creating international collaborative networks and partnerships; more recently he has been
 engaged in activities around digital storytelling and other cultural and heritage aspects of the
 School’s portfolio. His outputs are returned in Architecture, Built Environment and Planning. He
 has led the development of the School’s research strategy (outlined later) and has played the lead
 role in bringing together the research themes and strands from the two previous departments. His
 leadership has focused around ensuring the School’s capacity to build critical mass, in developing
 strategic collaborations through academic, private and public research partnerships (such as the
 current Northword / Storytagging project (outlined below) and which is the University’s largest
 social science funded research project. His role has also involved developing and encouraging
 interdisciplinary research and knowledge exchange, and fostering the research community within
 the School (including doctoral students and early career researchers).

 An important strategic initiative that has been led by the School of Creative and Cultural Business,
 and developed across the University during the last five years as part of a wider impact and
 engagement strategy, has been RGU Orkney, which emerged out of preliminary discussions with
 representatives from Orkney, including council officials and elected members and other
 stakeholder groups. This work focuses on how RGU institutionally – across all its disciplinary
 areas – can provide research, innovation and commercialisation to address the challenges and
 opportunities of the island community. The goal of this has been to make material contributions
 to the economic, health, social and cultural landscape of Orkney. The institution has supported
 the engagement of staff with research opportunities in Orkney through travel, workshops,
 engagement events and other activities.

 The appointment of a Development Manager based at the Orkney Research and Innovation
 Campus in Stromness has been a positive development, particularly facilitating connections and
 networking between stakeholders in Orkney and staff at the university. Recently, in a school
 research context, this has also proved beneficial as the Orkney Development Manager also acts
 as the project manager for the Northword / Storytagging project funded as part of the Interreg
 Northern Periphery and Arctic Fund. The School has engaged strongly with RGU Orkney in a
 number of different contexts (both within the scope of this submission and in other areas
 associated with the School’s activities, for example, tourism and hospitality). RGU Orkney has
 facilitated closer cross- and multi-disciplinary approaches, a goal intended with the removal of the
 research institutes in 2015. Work undertaken by Pedersen (in collaboration with colleagues in
 Gray’s School of Art and other art schools elsewhere, including in Sweden) has examined heritage
 and storytelling aspects associated with the history and manufacturing of tweed in Orkney.
 Ironside has been strongly engaged in initiatives and projects in Orkney such as the creation of
 a Folklore Trail app which sought to benefit visitors but also the local economy and infrastructure
 by diverting visitors to other, lesser known heritage sites and assets on the islands. This,
 alongside her project funded by the Royal Society of Edinburgh examining digital storytelling and
 the technology needed to underpin it, is based on strong collaborative partnerships with Professor
 Donna Heddle, Director of the University of the Highlands and Island’s Institute for Northern
 Studies in Orkney, and within RGU itself with the School of Computing and Digital Media.

 The University’s commitment to Orkney has proved fruitful for the School’s research activity and
 impact, and, more generally, the initiative continues to grow and develop, particularly in the context

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of developing an Islands Deal, bringing together Scotland’s three island communities, Orkney,
 Shetland and the Western Isles, together with academic and other partners. The School’s
 activities, covering areas such as digital communication, storytelling, culture, heritage and, indeed
 tourism and hospitality, mean that it is likely to play a strong and significant part in this as the
 development of the strategic case is made to both the Scottish and UK Governments.

 The submission comprises staff with significant responsibility for research as well as mid- and
 early-career researchers. The work of Baxter, Burnett, Martzoukou and Reid covers library and
 information management, including social media, knowledge management, information literacy,
 library management, and library history. Reid also works in aspects of cultural history (local
 heritage and digital heritage). His work complements that of Ironside who, in addition to
 examining aspects of cultural sociology, undertakes work associated with cultural heritage and
 digital storytelling. Her research emerges from sociological and psychological studies into the
 unknown and the supernatural, exploring these in the context of dark tourism and other cultural
 studies. Burnett’s work examines intersections between business, enterprise, knowledge
 management, information and data, and digital participation. The work of McKay and Pedersen
 falls into communication, media studies and journalism. Both McKay and Pedersen have
 researched aspects of media relating to gender, participation and engagement. McKay’s work
 explores issues of gender representation in contemporary Scottish political discourse. Pedersen’s
 work includes strong historical angles, which links to Reid and his library history work. Her work
 also includes a focus on social media and political engagement, complementing the work of Baxter
 and some of Burnett. Cross’s work is within the realm of fashion management, focusing on
 fashion psychology and wellbeing; it links to other creative and cultural aspects of the School’s
 activities, both in teaching and research. The formation of the School of Creative and Cultural
 Business has facilitated the strengthening and enhancement of cross-disciplinary working and
 fostered new research collaborations within the team. Burnett, Pedersen and Reid were returned
 in 2008 and with Baxter and Martzoukou, in 2014. Others returned in this submission are more
 recent appointments.

 The research goals (formulated after the creation of the school) build on those established for the
 subject areas in 2008 and 2014, as well as broadened and deepening activities with new subject
 areas (including events management or tourism management). They reflect a commitment to
 research excellence, sustainability and impact, and a belief that complex societal challenges
 require new ways of thinking. The School’s research reflects its multidisciplinary nature and the
 University’s strong encouragement of inter- and multi-disciplinary activities.

 Progress and achievement since 2014: Progress in the review period has been driven by six
 specific strategic objectives:
  Enhance the volume and quality of our published outputs – The volume of published
    outputs reflects both the established core areas of research activity and, increasingly, the
    connections and complementarities of disciplines across the new school. Library and
    Information management research integrates long-standing interests in information literacies,
    information behaviour and knowledge management around user behaviours and skills,
    reflecting research interests in exploring and reconceptualising relationships between
    previously disparate areas. It includes the management of information assets, the role of
    information as an organisational or societal asset, issues affecting its application, and the
    examination of information environments, that is to say the specific information-centric
    contexts, such as libraries, publishers, online, and workplace environments. Martzoukou’s
    work focuses around information needs and literacy (including digital literacies) (Outputs 1 &
    2); Burnett has explored issues associated with information needs in enterprise contexts (1 &
    2) and has, with Lloyd, addressed broader issues on the information landscape (3), while
    MacLennan (1) has investigated RDA technologies in knowledge organisation. Reid (3) has
    addressed information environments in work on quality standards in public libraries. Closely
    related to the library and information management research theme is the activity and outputs
    around digital communication and participation in society, exploring how digital tools,
    including social media, are exploited, used and engaged with by particular groups and
    constituencies (including political, cultural and gender-based contexts). Baxter (1, 2 & 3) has

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     examined engagement in the political process online both in UK and overseas contexts and
     has also addressed issues associated with ‘fake news’ and ‘alternative facts’. Pedersen (2)
     addresses aspects of digital and online participations in online communities from a gender-
     based perspective, which follows from past work around gender and blogging. Pedersen (1 &
     4) explores gender and the press in an historical idiom. The work of McKay is also rooted in
     exploration of gender issues in the media (1 & 2), with a focus on perceptions of gender and
     Scottish politics in both the print and online media. The work of Reid (2) has explored digital
     engagement with local heritage. Both of these themes are also treated in historical research
     contexts which have, for more than twenty years, been a key facet of the work of Pedersen (2
     & 4), relating to media history and gender and Reid (4), relating to library history and historical
     bibliography. Ironside’s work sits within the creative industries and cultural studies and
     considers themes around the uncanny, the supernatural or the unexplained with reference to
     dark tourism and the events industry, and also recently around storytelling and digital cultural
     heritage, which also has strong ties to digital communication and participation in society.
     Cross’s work (1) deploys novel methods and generates model creation in exploring fashion
     and well-being. Reid’s work (2) also covers some of this territory by looking at cultural heritage
     on a local level, often in the context of digital technology.
    Increase income from research grants – A strong focus has been placed on increasing
     research income through submitting at least 19 grant applications per annum led by senior
     researchers but with early- (ECR) and mid-career (MCR) researchers also included in grant
     applications (where possible) and two specific early career researcher grant applications each
     year. This has been led by the senior research team and has resulted in awards from the Arts
     and Humanities Research Council (Reid, Collaborative Doctoral Programme and COVID-19
     response). Reid has also secured funding from the Scottish Library and Information Council
     (Every child a library member, 2016 and Doric Literature Portal, 2018), Pedersen’s suffragette
     work secured funding from the Heritage Lottery Fund while her work on contemporary gender
     issues led to funding from Advance HE. Burnett obtained £174,000 in the form of a
     Knowledge Transfer Partnership in 2020. Gray with Cross, Ironside and Reid has led the
     successful StoryTagging project (€1,000,000) which involves partners from Northern Ireland,
     Scotland, Sweden, Finland and Russia. Research funding applications have also been
     submitted independently by ECR and MCR staff members, with Ironside receiving funding
     from the Royal Society of Edinburgh and Martzoukou from the Chartered Institute of Library
     and Information Professionals. The target has been the submission of grant applications with
     a minimum total value of £1.9m per annum, with the goal of generating at least £300,000 in
     grant income per annum (defined as grant expenditure recovered by the School). In three of
     the four years from the establishment of the School, the target for research income has been
     exceeded and in 2019-2020 the School achieved the third highest research income in
     university.
    Improve the PGR experience for doctoral students and better integrate them into the
     research culture of the School – Enhancing the experience of doctoral students has been a
     key goal over recent years to ensure that doctoral students are visible and regarded as a
     valued part of the School. Emphasis has been placed on increasing the proportion of full- and
     part-time students that complete their PhDs within the expected time period, and achieving a
     better balance between the relative proportions of full- and part-time doctoral students. There
     have been 21 completions in this REF and a greater balance with 12 FT and 14 PT research
     students. Widening the pool of doctoral supervisors has been achieved (through a number of
     staff successfully completing their own PhDs, 5 at RGU, 2 at other HEIs and a further two
     having successfully defended their theses and now making corrections), which has resulted in
     more equitable PGR supervisory loads. Institutionally, the establishment of a single Graduate
     School has contributed significantly to the enhancements in this area, with stronger monitoring
     of postgraduate research students as well as the fostering of a stronger sense of community.
     The latter has been mirrored within disciplinary areas for the School’s own research student
     community, whilst noting that many are at distance.
    Engage in interdisciplinary research that has a positive impact on business, society,
     policy and practice regionally, nationally and internationally – The research activity of the
     team has made positive impacts across business, society, policy and practice within Scotland,
     UK and further afield (and outlined in Section 4). The University research strategy is committed

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     to growing the impact of its research by building critical mass around established research
     leads. The University is investing in additional resource to support areas where it is already
     delivering highly impactful research. It is focused on interdisciplinary collaboration, developing
     new, and nurturing existing, innovative strategic research partnerships with business and
     industry (e.g. through Knowledge Transfer activities such as with Deans of Huntly and
     Common Data Access (part of Oil and Gas UK)). The Northword / Storytagging project has
     been a significant response to this. The project draws together partners in the UK, Ireland,
     Finland, Sweden and Russia and a strong multi-disciplinary team including heritage, culture,
     storytelling, fashion and creative industries, film-making, and computing and technology
     backgrounds. Wider university initiatives include the RGU Orkney, through which RGU has
     engaged actively with a range of stakeholders in Orkney to develop inter-disciplinary research
     collaborations and opportunities in the sciences, healthcare and social sciences. This is
     evidenced by the work of Pedersen (on Orkney tweeds with Konstfack University of Arts, Craft
     and Design in Sweden) and Ironside (Orkney Folklore app with the School of Computing).
     Reid also works with art historians at the National Gallery on the AHRC-CDP studentship.
     Cross’s work strongly emphasises inter-disciplinary collaboration with, amongst others,
     fashion technologists. The Impact Case Studies demonstrate how research undertaken into
     women in the media has had societal impacts, and research into the role of libraries in
     supporting children literacy has influenced government and public policy.
    Enhance our inclusive research culture – When the School was established in 2016, one
     of the principal goals was to broaden and deepen the inclusiveness of the research culture.
     This was in part to bring together disciplines which had, perhaps, been more distinct and
     separate and partly as a response to the disbanding of the research institutes. Elements
     around this are outlined in staff development section below.
     Enhance our research capacity – A central theme since the establishment of the School has
     been raising its profile as a research entity. During this period, four members of staff have
     successfully completed doctorates and are now embarking on independent research careers
     (e.g. McKay, who joined the university in 2018). The School’s research capacity has been
     further enhanced through the development of stronger internal collaborations, particularly, with
     the School of Computing (Ironside and the Orkney Folklore app and the Orkney Digital
     Storytelling project); Gray’s Art School (Cross and the Weaving the Past into the Future
     project); the School of Architecture, involving a range of projects (Gray, Reid, Ironside,
     Baxter) and the School of Applied Social Studies (Ironside and Reid on local legends and
     folklore). In addition, collaboration with external, and often, international networks has been
     fostered, such as Reid and Ironside with the Department of Geography, Media and
     Communication at the University of Karlstad (Sweden), which has led to funding bids and
     collaborative participation in workshops, or Burnett with Annemarie Lloyd at the University of
     Borås and, more recently, UCL. Pedersen’s Visiting Fellowship at the University of Canberra
     led to five collaborative publications with sociologist Deborah Lupton. The School has
     benefited from University pump-priming funding initiatives (Pedersen with the Suffrage Map
     and Ironside with the Orkney Folklore app) to develop new projects ahead of the development
     of subsequent larger external funding applications. There has also been focus on developing
     or enhancing research capacity in areas where there are demonstrable teaching strengths,
     such as events, tourism or fashion management. The library and information management
     group has strong pre-existing links with the academic discipline across the United Kingdom
     and Ireland and internationally through the i-Schools network and other links.

 2. People
 Staffing strategy and staff development - Growth and sustainability of research since REF2014
 have been products of the School’s own staff-centred development objectives as well as
 institutional support structures. A clear focus on development of the research capacity of staff has
 been integral since the establishment of the School, with both Royle and Gray setting the strategic
 direction. The long-term sustainability, enhancement and vitality of the School’s portfolio of
 research is crucial, and can be observed by the way in which staff have been fostered and
 developed through successive Research Assessment and Research Excellence exercises with,
 inter alia, Pedersen and Burnett both attaining professorial status (Reid’s pre-dates this being in
 a management role until 2016). Mid- and early-career researchers, such as Martzoukou and

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ironside, have been supported through the objective-setting annual appraisal process, as well as
 through informal mentoring by senior researchers within the School. This includes informal
 discussion of research ideas, critical peer review of proposals and publications, and frequent
 collaboration on projects or initiatives. The School has actively sought to appoint post-doctoral
 research-active members of staff (including McKay) and supports existing staff completing part-
 time doctoral studies (Reid supervising four, Pedersen supervising two, and Burnett one). The
 School has run a monthly research seminar series which has engendered collegial support and
 generated new project ideas, with an online approach to these (and to support for both ECRs and
 part-time staff doctoral students) having been adopted in response to COVID-19. A range of other
 events regularly support staff development, including workshops on research funding applications
 (attended by senior as well as mid- and early-career researchers), sandpit events to generate
 new, multi-disciplinary approaches (e.g. associated with RGU Orkney), ongoing training and
 development for doctoral supervisors (facilitated on a monthly basis by the Graduate School), and
 external training and development opportunities.

 The management of research within the School is ultimately in the hands of the Head of School
 and the Academic Strategic Lead for research, and the institutional landscape is outlined in REF
 5a. In practice, the day-to-day management is undertaken by the academic strategic lead for
 research Gray (returned in UoA13 Architecture, Built Environment and Planning) in collaboration
 with the senior researchers in the School (that is those with a significant responsibility for
 research), and this group, comprising the Professoriate, the Reader, Research Fellow and
 Research Assistant, meets regularly. For all research-active staff across the School, whether
 developing, established or senior researchers, individuals agree research objectives with their line
 manager through the University’s Employee Performance Review (EPR) process.

 Burnett’s work is focused on knowledge. He was previously Theme Leader for Information and
 Communications in RGU’s former Institute for Management, Governance and Society (IMaGeS)
 and was Associate Director of the Scottish Graduate School of Social Sciences, 2013-16. He is
 the Research Degrees Co-ordinator for the school. He has presented at a number of international
 conferences, including European Conference on Knowledge Management, Conference for e-
 democracy and open government, and LILAC. He has been involved in doctoral student support,
 including iDocQ and as iConference doctoral colloquium chair at (Borås, 2020). He has examined
 widely in the UK and overseas. Pedersen is Gender Equality Champion for the university. She is
 author of Scottish Suffragettes and the Press (Palgrave Macmillan, 2017). The same year she
 was awarded funding by the Heritage Lottery Fund to produce an edition of the correspondence
 of Aberdeen suffragette and journalist Caroline Phillips, which led to plaques to suffrage
 campaigners Caroline Phillips and Louisa Innes Lumsden being unveiled in Aberdeen. She was
 the Director of the Rise Up Quines! festival in Aberdeen in 2018 and is chair of the organising
 committee for the annual MeCCSA conference to be held at RGU 2022 and is a member of the
 Board of Directors of Grampian Women’s Aid. She was Associate Editor of Women’s Studies
 International Forum 2016-20, and a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society. Reid was Head of the
 Department of Information Management until 2016. He is a member of the AHRC Peer Review
 College and was on REF Panel 2011-2014. He has worked with the Bowes Museum-National
 Gallery-Imperial War Museum Consortium for collaborative doctoral awards, with which he
 currently holds one such award with the National Gallery (London). He is a member of the Board
 of Trustees of Scottish Library and Information Council and was President of the Chartered
 Institute of Library and Information Professions in Scotland (CILIPS) in 2012. He has been editor
 of the journal Library and Information History since 2015. He reviews for the Irish Research
 Council) and the Swedish Knowledge Foundation. He is co-supervisor of Masters dissertations
 at Universtitet i Agder (Norway). He devised, on behalf of the Scottish Government, the quality
 standards used in public libraries, which are now used by all 32 local authorities.

 Baxter was keynote at London South Bank University’s ‘This is Not a Fake Conference’ in 2018,
 and made invited presentations as part of Edinburgh Napier University’s ‘Informing the Good
 Society’ public seminar series in 2015, and Staffordshire University’s ‘Information Literacy
 Teachmeets’ series in 2017. He referees papers for eleven different journals in the ILS and political
 science disciplines, including: Journal of Information Science, Journal of Documentation, and

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 British Journal of Political Science. His co-authored paper in the Aslib Journal of Information
 Management, entitled ‘Members of the Scottish Parliament on Twitter’, won an Emerald Literati
 Network Outstanding Paper Award in 2017. He is also a reviewer for international conferences
 such as EGOV-CeDEM-ePart, and a member of the Study of the Scottish Parliament group.
 Martzoukou is a Senior Fellow of HEA and founder of the online network OneHE Information,
 Digital and Media Literacy Mindsets. She has been an ESRC Grants Assessment Panel (GAP)
 member and reviewer for the Irish Research Council. She is a member of the editorial committee
 of Library Management Journal, the European Conference on Information Literacy and the
 Association for Information Science & Technology (ASIS&T). She has examined doctorates
 nationally and internationally and been invited speaker at conferences, including keynote at the
 2019 CILIP Public and Mobile Libraries conference. She is co-judge of the LILAC Information
 Literacy Award. MacLennan’s work is principally around knowledge organisation, databases,
 records management and information governance, with his well-received monograph Information
 governance and assurance published by Facet in 2014.

 Ironside’s work has emerged from her doctoral research, which explored social interactions with
 extraordinary experiences, and her current activity includes this, group experiences, dark or
 supernatural tourism in contemporary society. She developed and project managed the
 Supernatural in Contemporary Society conference in 2019, attracting significant media attention.
 In a relatively short period of time, Ironside has developed a robust and respected profile in her
 areas of research, with invitations to conferences, networking partnerships and contributions to
 monographs.

 Strategies for development - A key facet of this was around supporting early career researchers.
 Mentoring has been established within the school (e.g. Pedersen and McKay, or Reid and
 Ironside) to support and develop ECRs. A monthly research seminar series has been run since
 2017 during term time that showcases research activity from doctoral through to funded projects
 being currently undertaken, as well as external speakers when appropriate. More recently, in
 response to the COVID-19 lockdowns, these have moved online and have included more
 opportunities for wider participation. Through communicating activities internally, collaborations
 have been developed with other disciplines (Computing and Digital Media, Architecture, Art and
 Social Sciences); although the disciplines in this submission have always had a strong track-
 record of multi-disciplinary research and collaborations with other areas, both within and without
 the University. The University has strongly encouraged the development of support for early
 career researchers. In 2019, the post of Research Training Coordinator was established (for the
 first time) at RGU to co-ordinate the University-wide Early Career Researcher Network and to
 develop training activities for the ECR community. Research Training Coordinator sits jointly
 within the Research Strategy & Policy and Graduate School teams, acknowledging the
 complementarity in requirements for training between PGR and ECR communities.

 Recruitment over the REF period focused on new areas being developed within the school
 including data analytics and digital marketing. During this period emphasis has been placed on
 the recruitment of recently completed doctoral candidates (e.g. Ironside, McKay, Morrison and
 Ebeke) or those close to completion. The School actively supports (through mentoring by senior
 staff) early career researchers, who over this REF period have joined RGU (such as Ironside and
 McKay). The School has been active developing capacity through the University’s sabbatical
 scheme (with three members of staff benefitting from this opportunity out of a total of six within the
 REF period and with another embarking on a sabbatical in 2021). Their activities during this time
 have included publication of books, contribution to major research initiatives and generating
 research income. Another approach has been through seeking to engage ECRs in large research
 projects, so they gain experience of funded research. Capacity has also been developed through
 the focused research opportunities presented by RGU Orkney in which staff have fully engaged.
 All of these initiatives have been supported and encouraged by the Head of School and Academic
 Strategic lead for Research. The University’s internal pump-priming mechanism has further helped
 to develop research capacity within the School’s disciplines around topics including Smart
 Tourism, digital storytelling, cultural heritage, knowledge economy, creative and cultural industries
 generally and in relation, more specifically, to RGU Orkney.

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research students – Robert Gordon University has a single Graduate School which manages
 the research student community across the University, with each School having a dedicated
 Research Degrees Co-ordinator (Burnett) who manages the doctoral journey for students. The
 process whereby a single Graduate School was created is discussed in REF 5a. All doctoral
 students attend a Graduate School Induction and undertake the cross-disciplinary Postgraduate
 Certificate Research Methods validated in 2002 and delivered in two modules, each of 30 Scottish
 Credit and Qualifications Framework (SCQF level 11) credits (and on which some of the school’s
 School’s senior research staff teach). Cross-university seminars and training sessions focus on
 the doctoral process, aspects of data collection and analysis, writing up, preparation for the viva;
 developing research proposals for funding; and teaching and demonstrating. In addition to this,
 students are encouraged to participate in other research training (such as iDocQ and an annual
 conference for social science doctoral students). Students are allocated principal and secondary
 supervisors. In addition to the traditional part- and full-time PhD route, the University offers a
 range of professional doctorates, including, within these disciplinary areas, the Doctorate of
 Information Science (DInfSc), as well as PhD by public output available to members of academic
 staff and which was undertaken by Baxter.

 Students’ research represents a continuum of interests across the spectrum of disciplines within
 the School with current or recent topics including, in Library and Information management,
 communities of practice in information literacy in higher education or information behaviour and
 digital entrepreneurship in start-ups; in digital communication and participation in society, a
 Conceptual Framework for E-Governance Implementation in the state of Kuwait, youth political
 engagement in Canada and the UK; in the creative industries and cultural studies, the
 professionalisation of fashion blogging, digital co-creation, regional cultural identity and artisan
 manufacturers, and representations of the supernatural in media. Historical work is represented
 by a study of the Dublin Library Society and on Sir Charles Eastlake at the National Gallery.

 At present 26 doctoral students are enrolled on either traditional PhD or professional doctorate
 routes (12 FT and 14 PT) from a range of countries including India, Ireland, Kazakhstan, Nigeria,
 Qatar, Switzerland, UK, and USA. There were 21 doctoral completions since 2014 within the
 school, broadly representing the disciplines covered, with 9 being in Information Science and the
 remainder split across communication, media, marketing, fashion and tourism. Reid is (since
 2018) principal supervisor on an AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Programme studentship with the
 National Gallery, London and was co-supervisor on a second application with the University of
 Stirling. Five doctoral submissions are expected 2020/2021.

 Equality and Diversity – The University operates both Equality and Diversity and a Dignity at
 Work and Study policies and has values promoting ambition, approachability, authenticity,
 collaboration, innovation and respectfulness. The School embraces these aspirations in terms of
 equality and diversity. The school has gender balance of 52.5% identifying as female, to 47.5%
 identifying as male. The school includes BAME and mixed nationalities. The university’s Gender
 Equality Champion is a member of the school professoriate. The senior team comprises three
 females and two males, and the professoriate of two females and three males. The school
 encourages flexible working with staff working on fractional contracts and/or condensed working
 arrangements. The school actively supports those staff with caring responsibilities and how these
 can be managed effectively around work commitments. There are no active researchers with
 registered disabilities on the staff during the assessment period but the university’s systems for
 protected characteristics are in place for all employees.

 The balance for those submitted in this return reflects that school-wide breakdown with 55.5%
 identifying as female and 44.5% identifying as males. Specific Equality and Diversity training was
 provided to all staff involved in the preparation of REF submissions. The university’s Code of
 Practice governing staff classification as category A for REF paid close attention to equality and
 diversity considerations and confidential systems were put in place for staff circumstances,
 protected characteristics and factors that may have affected research performance in the
 assessment period. The school operates an open door policy and the wellbeing of staff and

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students is a top priority. Staff have two formal meetings with their line manager per year as part
 of the EPR process, and there are regular informal meetings.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Income: The total Research income for the school since its inception has been £232,122 plus
 more than €1m in projects led by Gray but involving Reid, Ironside and Cross. This total represents
 a 47% increase over the total (£157,735) reported in REF2014 for the final census year. This
 acknowledges the different administrative structures from the time of the 2014 submission when
 staff returned were spread across two distinct departments. The research income indicates that
 the group has maintained a broad funding base, including the UK funding councils, knowledge
 transfer partnerships, industry, government, and the third sector.

 MacLennan was co-lead on a two-year Knowledge Transfer Partnership (£86,163) with Aberdeen
 Harbour Board to develop an integrated Information and Record Management (IRM) system for
 items of corporate memory and documents relating to the functions and activities of the Harbour
 Board. Martzoukou obtained funding from the Information Literacy Group of the Chartered
 Institute of Library and Information Professionals to conduct research into the information
 experiences of Syrian new Scots. In 2020, Burnett secured a Knowledge Transfer Partnership
 (total project value of £174,235) with Deans of Huntly for a 24-month project aiming to apply
 business research methodologies in knowledge management, digital marketing, data analytics
 and brand management to evaluate current company practices to create a framework for
 continuous knowledge capture and brand strategy development, and to expand their online B2C
 (business to customer) sales. Reid received funding from Scottish Library and Information (SLIC)
 to undertake a review of the Every Child a Library Member scheme in 2016 (Reid 3). In 2018, he
 was awarded funding from SLIC’s Innovation and Development Fund for the development of the
 Doric Literature Portal. He also secured an AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Programme Studentship
 with the National Gallery, London (£73,000) and, most recently (May 2020), received £16,000 from
 AHRC COVID-19 funding to examine how Scottish public libraries developed their digital services
 and how they supported community cohesion during the lockdown period. Pedersen received
 £8,300 from the Heritage Lottery Fund for work on the letters of the suffragette Caroline Phillips in
 partnership with Aberdeen City Council, Aberdeen Art Gallery and Glasgow Women’s Library
 (Pedersen 1 & 4). This included an exhibition, school curriculum-related events, the publication
 of Phillips’s letters and a range of public engagement events. She also received funding from
 Advance HE jointly with School of Pharmacy to investigate perceptions of women-only training in
 HE. Ironside has received funding (£10,000) from the Royal Society of Edinburgh Research
 Workshop Fund in connection with her work associated with folklore and digital storytelling, which
 had previously received internal pump-priming. This work has enabled Ironside to create a number
 of important strategic partnerships and to link to the University’s wider RGU Orkney project. Reid
 and Ironside are also leading the RGU component of work package 2, with Cross leading work
 package 3, of the €1m ‘Storytagging’ project. Additionally, Cross’s From Augmented to Authentic,
 Weaving the Past into Future received £22,517 in funding from AHRC.

 Infrastructure: The school’s research strategy is supported by the University’s Research Strategy
 and Policy (RS&P), which provides central support and management of research applications and
 awards, monitors performance, and provides regular analytical reports to aid evidence-based
 decision-making. RS&P helps promote quality and impactful research and support cross-
 disciplinary communication and strategic planning. University initiatives such as the
 implementation of WorkTribe as the University’s research management tool have streamlined
 processes and brought resources together in a useful fashion. The School’s professoriate work
 with Gray to form the research leadership team. The University’s Research Committee is chaired
 by the Vice-Principal and Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research and in turn reports to the University’s
 Academic Council and Board of Governors. The School also maintains an Ethics Panel comprising
 the senior research staff which considers and reviews undergraduate, postgraduate and doctoral
 students’ SPER (Student Project Ethical Review) forms. The University Graduate School for all
 higher degree students, is responsible for research degree governance reporting to the
 University’s Research Degrees Committee (RDC) chaired by the Vice-Principal and Pro Vice-
 Chancellor for Research. Administrative support for the Research Degrees Committee is provided

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by the Graduate School, which maintains the University’s quality assurance procedures and
 systems in support of the doctoral journey. During the period of the COVID-19 lockdown, a
 number of oral examinations have been completed online.

 Facilities: RGU has excellent facilities for the execution and dissemination of research. The
 physical environment, comprising a mix of closed and open-plan spaces, is conducive to both
 private study and team work, and all of the school’s PGR students are allocated their own
 dedicated space. Shortly prior to REF2014, the University consolidated on one campus for the
 first time with the completion of an extensive three-phase, £120 million, building programme which
 saw addition of 34,000m2 of new buildings, including a new University library. Staff and students
 have access to the full range of ICT and library resources expected at a modern university and
 dissemination is supported through RGU’s Open Access repository (Open-Air).

 COVID-19 has imposed certain challenges on aspects of the School’s research activities,
 particularly where face-to-face data collection was integral to projects. This has been, perhaps,
 most significant in the Northword / Storytagging project, where all of the story gathering elements
 (including workshops with heritage and community organisations) had to be moved online. The
 wider School research community has, however, responded to these challenges with agility. In
 some other projects, funders have agreed extensions until such time as physical events can be
 held (e.g. Reid’s #Doric project) or have accepted amelioration steps for particular activities.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 The School’s research, in its various constituent disciplinary areas, has strong collaborations and
 networks. This is particularly the case with Baxter, Burnett, Pedersen, and Reid because of the
 long-established nature of information and communication-related research. It is also increasingly
 being mirrored in more emergent research themes around digital storytelling, heritage, fashion,
 events and tourism management.

 Gray, in leading the Northword / Storytagging project has developed partnerships with University
 of Ulster, University of Highlands and Islands, as well as local authorities and heritage partners in
 Finland, Sweden and Russia, as well as in the United Kingdom and Ireland. These partnerships
 have been deepened by the works of Reid, Ironside, and Cross through their work in respective
 work packages led by RGU. Links through this project have been particularly strengthened and
 deepened with the Centre for Recreation and Tourism Research at University of Highlands and
 Islands, Kvarken Council (in Finland) and Västerbotten (in Sweden) with, in particular, co-
 participation in workshops and seminars.

 The information management researchers made a contribution to that discipline and its research
 base through the School’s i3 Conference, bringing scholars and researchers from fifteen countries
 and establishing a strong international network from the traditionally separate user-focused fields
 of information literacy, information behaviour, and impact, to examine research questions and
 methodological issues, and to inform research agendas. The strong record of keynotes include
 Choo (Toronto), Kulthau, Todd, (Rutgers), Limberg, (Gothenburg), continuing in 2015 with
 Bawden (City). Sundin (Lund), Kilbride, (Digital Preservation Coalition) and in 2017 Thoms
 (Sheffield), Fulton, (Dublin), and Sippitt (Full Fact, the fact-checking agency). The collaborations
 and networks within this academic community are strong and enduring, both through the i3
 Conference, the iSchools network and other groups. Mirroring the approach of i3 conference, the
 School also supported, in 2018, the Supernatural in Contemporary Society conference which was
 organised by Ironside to explore contemporary responses to the unexplained. It brought together
 a wide range of scholars from diverse academic disciplines and had, as keynotes, Waskul
 (Minnesota) on the promise of the supernatural, and Clarke (Sheffield Hallam) on the (UK) National
 Archives UFO Project.

 The information management group at RGU, along with Glasgow, Strathclyde and Edinburgh
 Napier, was founder member of the original Information Science Pathway of the Scottish Graduate
 School for Social Sciences, which created iDocQ (an annual information science doctoral student


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 colloquium), which has now developed into a broader doctoral training event for social scientists.
 Burnett served as an Associate Director of SSSGS until June 2016.

 Pedersen was Visiting Fellow, News and Media Research Centre, University of Canberra,
 Australia, 2015. Her work has made significant contributions to public and societal discourse
 about women’s engagement within and participation in media. This has involved both historical
 and contemporary perspectives, including the Rise Up Quines! Festival, which brought to wider
 attention the suffragette campaigns in north-east Scotland and led to several media appearances.
 Pedersen’s work was also recognised more widely on Women’s Hour on Radio Four and on Radio
 Scotland, as well as by her participation in the Just Festival at the Edinburgh Fringe where her
 historical and contemporary work on women’s engagement with social media was presented in
 the context of #MeToo. She has contributed to Women’s History Scotland’s web-based resources
 on the suffrage movement in Scotland and was a keynote for them in 2018. Pedersen’s work has
 included collaborative research council bids with Hallett (Huddersfield) on public engagement and
 press response to women-only medical initiatives in Britain in 1914-23 and with Ryan (Sheffield)
 and Gilligan (Tuar Ard, Dublin) on press coverage of the Scottish and Irish women’s suffrage
 campaigns. Her work has had impacts on public discourse (through the media) around women’s
 participation in the media generally, and online environments in particularly, as well as, in an
 historical context raising general awareness of suffrage campaigns and campaigners in north
 Scotland.

 Reid’s work around various aspects of public library management in Scotland have similarly had
 societal impacts with the How good is our public library service? being implemented in January
 2016 as the Scottish quality enhancement framework to be used across all 32 local authorities,
 and many reviews have been undertaken using the new mechanism. Reid has chaired a number
 of these (including Scottish Borders, Angus, and two in Shetland). Subsequently, the review of
 Every child a library member undertaken by Reid and Hood influenced the move from the pilot
 scheme to an embedded goal outlined in successive Scottish Government Programme for
 Government statements, with the recommendation from the report that the scheme refer to active
 membership. The results of this were widely disseminated to the practitioner communities in the
 UK through conference presentations (SLIC Annual Showcase, Chartered Institute of Library and
 Information Professionals Scotland annual conference, Library Association of Ireland annual
 conference). His 2020 funding to examine Scottish public libraries’ response to COVID-19
 lockdown is in partnership with the Scottish Library and Information Council and is likely to identify
 activities and legacies which may have enduring societal impacts on the delivery of services. His
 work on storytelling and digital heritage has included collaboration on research funding
 applications with the Archive for Peace and Human Rights (Norway) and (with Ironside) the
 University of Karlstad (Sweden). This latter collaboration with Karlstad extends to other activities
 around digital storytelling, also involving Ironside, including a joint presentation at the Icelandic
 Tourism Research Centre’s Nordic Symposium (postponed because of COVID-19).

 Ironside has fostered these international collaborations with Karlstad, including hosting a seminar
 with their Platsbaserade Digitala Upplevelser research group in September 2019. She has also
 undertaken work which has both societal and economic benefits, not least in Orkney (associated
 with the University’s strategic RGU Orkney initiative as outlined above) through the creation of a
 folklore app, which tells stories of the community and is both an exercise in digital storytelling but
 also a tool to manage the flow of tourists across Orkney rather than concentrating them in a few
 highly visited spots and thus bringing wider societal and economic benefits to that community. In
 respect of Ironside’s digital storytelling work, she has fostered and developed meaningful
 partnerships with the University of the Highlands and Islands generally and with its Institute of
 Northern Studies in connection with projects specifically in Orkney. She has also been an invited
 panellist at events in Copenhagen, Mannheim, Manchester and Loughborough on aspects of Dark
 Tourism and uncanny events.

 Cross’s work in the fashion management realm is centred on notions of comfort from clothing,
 looking at both the physical and psychological aspects that could contribute to well-being. With
 colleagues in the Schools of Computing, and Art, she is leading the AHRC-funded Weaving the

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Past into the Future project looking at how to educate consumers about the craftsmanship,
 heritage and value of traditional fashion and textile products both in the UK and in China. The
 project is a partnership between RGU and Donghua University and the Shanghai International
 Fashion Innovation Centre.

 Martzoukou and Burnett’s work examining the information needs of Syrian New Scots was
 subsequently used as a source of evidence in the Scottish Government’s New Scots refugee
 integration strategy 2018-2022. This work has been disseminated at a range of practitioner-based events
 and conferences across the UK. Baxter’s work on fake news has demonstrated wide reach across
 society through appearances on Radio Scotland and with press reports (subsequently picked up
 on by Scottish political parties). Interconnected research on politicians’ use of social media has
 been referred to in press, including publications as diverse as the New Scientist, The National,
 The Sun, and The Daily Mail.

 Staff have acted as external examiners for doctoral theses at a wide range of institutions including
 Northumbria University, King’s College, London, University of Sheffield, Edinburgh Queen
 Margaret University, Liverpool John Moore’s University, Aberystwyth University, Loughborough
 University, Manchester University, Tampere University (Finland), the Ionian University (Greece)
 and University of Borås (Sweden). Reid also acts as external assessor for the annual progress
 reviews of Information Science doctoral students at Glasgow.




                                                                                                Page 12
