Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Institution: University of Central Lancashire

  Unit of Assessment: 27 English Language and Literature

  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

During REF2014, our UoA declared among its future aims the enhancement of a research
environment whose vibrancy would encourage new, aspiring researchers, an increase in our level
of publication output, the acquisition and retention of high-quality research staff, and an increase in
our bidding activity.

These gains have been evidenced throughout REF2021. UoA27 comprising a small team of 13 scholars,
has punched above its weight, landing a total of £555,808 income (an increase of £377,897 from
REF2014), firmly establishing an international identity. The vibrance and sustainability of the UoA’s
research environment has been enhanced through its innovative and wide-ranging research activities
and staff achievements, its capacity to attract internationally renowned researchers, and nurturing of
early career talent, all amplifying our public impact and evidencing the gains achieved in REF2021.

Operating within the context of UCLan’s institutional research themes, in particular ‘Arts, Culture and
Heritage’, ‘Citizenship, Society and Justice’, and ‘People, Place and Environment’, UoA27 embraces
a variety of research areas (English Literature, American literature and culture, Black Atlantic
Studies, and Creative Writing) united by a commitment to fighting oppression, inequality and racism,
securing justice and access to resources for all, protecting our ecosphere, and (re-) affirming the
value of the humanities in the ongoing struggle for social betterment.

Structurally, we are facilitated through a number of transdisciplinary research academies, institutes
and centres coordinated within the Faculty of Culture and Creative Industries (FCCI) - the Arts and
Humanities Research Academy (AHRA, primary home to UoA27) and the Creative Practices
Research Academy (CPRA) formed in 2020. Their aim has been to provide a structured context
within which to strengthen the Faculty's research and impact activities, profiles and narratives,
providing homes for researchers within the Faculty, their research students, their research
collaborators and their associated research institutes, centres and clusters.

Crucially, the AHRA and CPRA provide a structured context within which to encourage and
develop transdisciplinary and interdisciplinary projects and initiatives addressing the University's
strategic research themes. Early and Mid-career Researchers (ECRs/MCRs) are encouraged to
develop their research trajectory within an intellectually diverse, stimulating, and supportive
environment, across three levels of Academy membership: (a) Full Members, who have a
significant responsibility for research (SRfR) as defined by the University's REF2021 policy; (b)
Associate Members, who are staff members identified in appraisals by a Head of School as being
on a path to achieving SRfR, ECRs, or postgraduate students; (c) Honorary Members, such as
prominent practitioners able to contribute to the research culture in ways not prescribed by other
research definitions.

Our advancement through strategic partnerships is built around research synergies, with UoA27
members at the forefront of establishing a flagship research institute and a new research centre,
respectively, the Institute for Black Atlantic Research (IBAR) and the UCLan Research Centre on
Migration, Diaspora and Exile (MIDEX) – both driven by commitment to equality and diversity down
to subject level. IBAR’s raison d’etre is to focus on the Black Diaspora and the deconstruction of
white supremacy, while that of MIDEX is to engage with issues of migration, diaspora and exile.
IBAR and MIDEX reflect UCLan’s commitment to interdisciplinary study, internationalism, and
collaborative local partnerships with a focus on scholarship in transnational histories and cultures.
IBAR’s membership includes UoA27 members Hoermann, Penier, Reddick, Rice, and Saxon, as
well as new senior fellow (Haas) and new postdoctoral fellow (Willson). All these colleagues, plus
Duggan, are also members of MIDEX.


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Figure 1 – Faculty linkages between Research Institutes, Centres, Groupings and UoAs




                                                                                       Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

First, to IBAR – the only British institute devoted to the study of Black Atlantic culture – drawing
inspiration from feedback on a bid led by Rice for a large European grant, with reviewers noting the
lack of a specific research centre to support the project manager. With Rice’s capture of an FP7
Marie Curie Intra-European Grant in the Black Atlantic field for German scholar Raphael Hoermann
in April 2014, the opportunity was taken to combine with scholars and practitioners from Fine Art –
UCLan Professor Lubaina Himid (the 2017 Turner Prize winner), Susan Walsh (now retired) and
Christine Eyene – to establish IBAR in May 2014. With its mission to promote dialogue and
scholarship on African Diaspora cultures, IBAR’s launch event drew over 80 participants including
Dr Richard Benjamin, Director of the International Slavery Museum in Liverpool, and the Yale
University Professor and Black British novelist, Caryl Phillips. Phillips (who delivered at IBAR keynote
events in 2015 and 2019) praised the atmosphere at IBAR’s events for being ‘intellectually rigorous,
convivial and familial, an almost unique combination to achieve in an academic setting’. Key
inaugural members from UoA27 were Rice, Saxon, Reddick and Hoermann, with PhD students
Andrea Sillis (Rice 1st supervisor) and Zoe Whitley (Himid 1st supervisor, Rice 2nd) as associate
members.

IBAR, established with an initial grant of £10,000 from the University, has had phenomenal success,
running 20 international symposia and conferences (with multiple partners), hosting 10 international
visiting fellows and promoting partnerships with museums and community groups. In terms of grant
capture there has been an exponential leap from the preceding REF period, with Rice gaining two
more Marie Skłodowska-Curie mobility grants (for Penier, 2016 and Haas, 2019) and a Leverhulme
Early Career Fellowship (for Willson, 2019). This boosted UoA27 membership as well as the
international reach of the scholarship, with two German scholars and one Polish scholar coming to
IBAR. This internationalisation has been enhanced through IBAR’s Visiting Fellow programme,
hosting scholars and filmmakers from the USA (Lisa Merrill, Sikay Tang and Maria Sanelli), Spain
(Maria Rocio Cobo Piñero), South Africa (Aretha Phiri), Saint Lucia (Malica Willie) and Britain
(Jessica Moody) as well as doctoral fellows from the USA (Ali Faraj) and Brazil (Luana De Souza,
based in Germany). This has brought significant networking benefits to IBAR members and others
in the UoA. ECRs in IBAR have been nurtured and developed and Reddick and Hoermann now
have full time permanent posts whilst Penier advances as a bid writer in the School of Medicine,
with research links to IBAR.

MIDEX: August 2019 marked a second research centre growing out of IBAR and colleagues in the
School of Languages and Global Studies: the UCLan Research Centre for Migration, Diaspora and
Exile (MIDEX), which came second out of 15 in a bid for competitive internal grants in a University-
wide competition. MIDEX was awarded £20,000 in 2020 to support the concrete realisation of an
envisaged collaboration between scholars across five faculties and multiple UoAs (Rice is the
centre’s first director; Hoermann is the research lead for the research stream, ‘Black Atlantic
Diaspora’). With over 60 members, MIDEX is already very active, with an online seminar series
launched in January 2021 and multiple events organised, including some run jointly with IBAR. The
wide focus of MIDEX allows other English members to be involved, also enabling Preston-based
members to reach out to international MIDEX colleagues such as Dr Olga Michael in Cyprus, who is
co-delivering an international conference (over 150 delegates) with Multi-Ethnic Studies Europe and
the Americas (MESEA) on UCLan’s Cyprus Campus in Larnaca (May 2022, postponed from 2020
due to COVID). This MESEA conference – the twelfth biennial – will engage with migration and
climate change, with literary scholars and writers at the fore, working to the theme of ‘Communities
of Engagement: Contesting Borders, Barriers and Walls in the Era of Climate Crisis’. Another
MIDEX-IBAR conference postponed from 2020, ‘Race and the Anthropocene’, will convene when
COVID restrictions are lifted (co-organiser Reddick).

In addition to synergies of institutes and centres like IBAR and MIDEX, we have forged an active
and coherent team specialising in Creative Writing (Braithwaite, Kruger, Day and Reddick). As
both a research cluster and an academic subject, Creative Writing is flourishing at UCLan. The 2020
Complete University Guide ranks UCLan’s undergraduate programme at 19th in the UK, up from 40th
in 2017. Since the hiring of dynamic early-career researcher colleagues (Kruger, Braithwaite and
Reddick) Creative Writing has become an important constituent in the UoA’s REF return. Indeed,

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
progress has been impressive measured against 2014, when Creative Writing was under different
leadership and no outputs were returned for the REF. The cluster’s practice-based research has a
robust theoretical underpinning in environmental and medical humanities, as well as restorative
justice, central to the stated REF emphasis on integrity and ethics. Kruger’s innovative novel, May
(2018), drawing on interdisciplinary research in medical humanities and practice-led research, was
praised at publication as ‘an ambitious novel that speaks to our times’ (Wales Art Review), while the
creative/critical articles drawn from Kruger’s research blend personal reflection with narrative theory
to question not only the representation of dementia in fiction but also the ability of creative practice
to offer new perspectives and insight. Braithwaite’s play, The War Play (premiered 2015) is based
on a tragic miscarriage of justice, the execution of Braithwaite’s posthumously exonerated great
uncle in WWI. The play was commissioned by WW100 with a grant to commemorate the war’s
centenary and was awarded the Robert Lord Award for Best Script in 2015.

Reddick’s research spans Creative Writing, English Literature, environmental humanities and
medical humanities (specifically poetry therapy and writing therapy). Reddick’s signature
achievement is a prestigious AHRC Leadership Fellowship awarded in 2020 for a project on “Poetry
and the Anthropocene”, the first to be held at UCLan. Reddick’s writing about climate change, animal
ethics, fossil fuels, forests and moorlands draws on her robust theoretical research from her
monograph Ted Hughes: Environmentalist and Ecopoet (Palgrave, 2017), described as ‘immensely
readable’ in the Times Literary Supplement. Reddick’s impact case study, ‘Poetry, Grief and
Healing’, is underpinned by her editing of a unique interdisciplinary issue of the Magma poetry journal
on the subject of loss. As Principal Investigator of an Arts Council England grant, Reddick
commissioned eight poets including Jackie Kay MBE, the Scottish National Poet, to work with
psychologists and counsellors. The poets wrote new poems inspired by working with psychologists
and counsellors, ranging from the loss of a limb or the loss of bodily autonomy after a stroke, to the
fragmentation of national identity following Brexit. Writing resources devised by Reddick are adopted
by the NHS Lancashire Recovery College, the Arvon Foundation, and a number of hospices and
individual grief counsellors—collectively reflecting the strong ethical dimension of Reddick’s work.
The Creative Writing cluster’s ongoing strategy is to continue strengthening its research base by
developing new creative outputs in prose, poetry and script as well as associated critical articles,
research-led teaching materials and opportunities for impact in the local community and beyond. As
part of this, Creative Writing members are seeking opportunities for more interdisciplinary
collaborations and focused research groups, strengthening the University’s developments in
practice-based research across film, writing and visual art.

With the emphasis thus far placed on collaborative centres, institutes, clusters, it should be noted
that the Faculty and the UoA actively support the activities of individual researchers whose work
might not fit neatly into the remit of a given research centre, institute or subject cluster. Thus,
Kaufman’s world-leading research on the US balladeer Woody Guthrie has consistently benefitted
from both financial and logistical support, particularly with regard to his 2014 archival discovery of a
cache of Guthrie’s writings condemning the racist housing practices of his Brooklyn landlord, Fred
C. Trump, father of the US president. This material has informed not only two monographs appearing
during REF2021 – Woody Guthrie’s Modern World Blues (Oklahoma, 2017) and Mapping Woody
Guthrie (Oklahoma, 2019) – but also a new song-and-spoken-word ‘live documentary’ that Kaufman
has presented at over 100 public venues on both sides of the Atlantic during the census period; a
TEDx talk (2017); a BBC-4 television documentary on Guthrie (2019); and a plethora of media pieces
and cultural interventions on the part of other practitioners inspired by Kaufman’s findings in the
resistance movement against the Trump presidency. Kaufman’s work also serves to strengthen the
interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary nature of UoA27 research: the case study ‘Woody Guthrie and
Old Man Trump’ is included as a case study for UoA33’s REF submission. Having established the
value placed on individual and autonomous research, we should note that even here Kaufman’s
work offers exploitable synergies with MIDEX, in particular surrounding Guthrie’s association with
the Dust Bowl refugees and his own factual and fictional migrations across America, culminating in
his highly crafted image as the quintessential hobo.




                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Moving forwards, the five main priorities for UoA27 for the period 2021-27 are to:
   1. Continue to sustain and enhance a high quality and vibrant research environment that
      supports inclusive, pluralist, multi-, trans-, and interdisciplinary collaborative, engagement to
      enrich and benefit society. At its core, UoA27 is a relatively small band of free-thinking
      individuals pursuing their particular research interests, many of which are suited to cluster-,
      centre-, or institute-based remits, but some of which might not be. We aim to continue
      balancing support for individual researchers with support for collective enterprises, with a
      target of high-quality research outputs and demonstrable impact.
   2. Work closely with the FCCI Academies (AHRA and CPRA) and the Faculty Research
      Strategy Group, to review our baseline of data on our current capabilities, with an aim to
      identify any gaps that we need to address. This will inform design and structure of new
      research Masterclasses and bid writing workshops to support ECRs in bidding for external
      grants. Building upon previous grant capture will be key to supporting UoA27 activities and
      this will be underpinned through a Faculty led Peer-review process.
   3. Encourage a thriving research environment through a succession plan, by supporting ECRs
      and MCR in their ambitions to undertake larger scale and more complex research and
      developing fresh talent. This succession plan will assist staff new to research in producing
      high-quality research by the next REF cycle, honing their skills to replace researchers that
      retire or move on. This can be achieved by strengthening our mentoring resources to
      increase opportunities for research workshops, forums, symposia, small grants and
      sabbaticals.
   4. Encourage growth in synergies that serve multidisciplinary enquires, for example through
      bringing together an Environmental Humanities Research Group drawing on Kruger’s
      interest in landscape writing in fiction, Braithwaite’s exploration of climate change in drama
      and Reddick’s writing on animal ethics, mountain environments and the Anthropocene, in
      partnership with colleagues from Sociology and Asia Pacific Studies (a partnership central
      to the planned ‘Race and the Anthropocene’ conference).
   5. Expand our international networks and partners and to access appropriate external
      expertise as critical friends in helping to shape and integrate the work of our centres,
      institutes and clusters.



  2. People

Staff development and staffing strategy within UoA27 is entwined with that of the University, the
FCCI (and its constituent research academies, institutions and centres) and the new School of
Humanities, Language and Global Studies (HLGS, constituted 2019). At University level the Centre
for Excellence in Learning and Teaching (CELT) offer a range of courses to all staff for professional
development, from mental health awareness to academic advising, from assessment and feedback
to understanding academic regulations, from managing professional behaviour to course leadership.
There are 61 research-related courses and workshops available for staff development. These
include regular update briefings for Research Degree Tutors and postgraduate supervisors;
identifying and deciphering research funding opportunities; bidding for research and knowledge
transfer; finding research collaborators and networks; research costings and data management;
research integrity and ethics (mandatory for all staff); and the researcher toolkit, among many others.
All UoA staff, in addition, receive further guidance from University-level Impact Officers. Mentoring
is also carried out elsewhere above the Faculty level. (Thus, for example, Reddick has been
mentored by the Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research, Professor StJohn Crean, guiding her in
opportunities to collaborate with colleagues in medicine and at the Lancashire NHS Recovery
College.) There is a clear mechanism for career progression through the Professor and Readership
Committee’s annual promotions (with Rice sitting on the committee).

At Faculty level, the focus is on developing researchers all the way from undergraduates through to


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Professors, with support in terms of communities, institutes, appraisals, mentoring, small grants and
sabbaticals managed through the Faculty Research Strategy Group. Peer mentoring for research
(including impact mentoring) is led by professorial staff (Rice and Kaufman) based on objectives
agreed during annual appraisals. All ECRs are mentored by Senior Lecturers and Principal Lecturers
for career progression. Throughout REF2021, the FCCI has been operating a sabbaticals scheme,
enabling up to 10 researchers annually to take a semester-length sabbatical. These are particularly
targeted for ECRs; hence Kruger’s semester-length sabbatical in 2019-20 as well as funding for
Reddick to attend conferences in environmental humanities and the National Association for Writers
in Education. MCRs are also supported; hence Hoermann’s semester-length sabbatical (2021) to
complete his pioneering study on Gothic Narratives of the Haitian Revolution. The FCCI annually
distributes approximately £40,000-£50,000 to directly support research projects and activities,
accessed via a competitive application process, managed and peer reviewed through the FCCI
Research Strategy Group. As well as supporting high quality research, the Faculty Research Grants
scheme supports PhD students towards engaging in academic conferences. IBAR has attracted and
developed seven post-doctoral fellows and two doctoral fellows since 2016, in addition to maintaining
its mentoring system (directed by Rice), its Visiting Fellowship programme and its commitment to
see research fellowship posts converted to permanent contracts (e.g. Reddick, Hoermann and
Penier).

Maintaining a thriving postgraduate environment is an ongoing priority, with a cohort of students
commensurate with the small size of the UoA. Throughout REF2021 UoA colleagues have been
involved in supervising a number of collaborative, cross-disciplinary PhD projects, seeing 4 PhD
completions since 2014 – between English and Linguistics (Kaufman), English, Theatre and
Transatlantic Studies (Saxon, Kaufman and Rice), English with Nursing (Rice) and English and
Visual Arts (Rice)—this last completion deserving of special mention as the student went on to senior
curatorial posts at the Tate and Haymarket galleries before becoming Director of London’s
Chisenhale Gallery in 2020. Last year also saw the successful completion- with remote supervision
and viva, due to COVID-19- of a PhD on Irish life writing (Kruger and Kaufman).

Current PhD supervisions include the Black Atlantic in the North (Rice), African Aesthetics and the
Psycho-social (Rice with colleagues from Social Work) African Americans in Broadway musicals
(Saxon, Rice and Hoermann), English-to-Arabic translations of Lady Chatterley’s Lover (Saxon and
Kaufman), Word-Class Organisation (Linguistics, with Kaufman as co-supervisor), women’s
memoirs of reproductive choice and mothering (Day), poetry of the Arab Diaspora (Reddick and
Rice), interactive sound archiving (Ethnomusicology, with Kaufman as co-supervisor), intertextuality
and dramatic stage directions (Saxon and Purves), Indian memoir and incarceration (Kruger), the
creation of narrative through improvisation (Purves), mental health in British and Asian science fiction
(Kruger and Day), Preston in narrative film and drama (Purves and Kaufman), memoir and well-
being (Kruger), and learning disability in the science fiction novel (Day). UoA27 have also hosted
visiting postgraduates on short research projects, such as Sandra Gomez-Garrido from the University
of Santiago de Compostela in Spain (2018), researching road imagery in the songs of Bruce
Springsteen (mentored by Kaufman).

Postgraduates have a growing number of opportunities to increase their employability, with
opportunities to teach on undergraduate modules (paid at an hourly rate that considers preparation
and marking time) with mentoring from senior colleagues. Reddick has commissioned two
postgraduate students to write new poems on the theme of loss for an issue of respected poetry
journal Magma, co-funded by the Arts Council England and a UCLan public engagement grant. This
will showcase their work to the literary community and increase their chances of securing future book
contracts with high-calibre publishers. Students are also involved in the performance and
organisation of book launches, open mic nights and other literary events. Our ‘In Conversation’
research seminar series, managed by Purves and Day, is open to all staff and students and brings
a variety of visiting writers, scholars and creative industry representatives onto campus to discuss
current research and innovation. A new MA in Creative Writing designed by the Creative Writing team
(validated 2019), received positive feedback from the panel and external examiner, offering students
a chance to develop a substantial piece of creative work alongside modules on research methods in
creative writing and the publishing and creative industries.

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

The UoA is committed to inspiring future postgraduates through developing a rigorous undergraduate
research culture. Day and Kruger oversee the annual student-edited Diffusion: A Journal of
Undergraduate Research, as well as a student-led publishing house, Diffusion Publishing, which
aims to publish one book annually (from 2019, being The Red Rose Book of Weird Fiction, the results
of subject-wide Creative Writing competition). UoA27 members also run an annual undergraduate
dissertation conference, which engages all third-year dissertation students; preparing them for future
academic conferences, with a formal panel structure, calls for papers and keynote addresses.

Our commitment to equality and diversity go well beyond the online ‘diversity and awareness’ training
courses required of all UCLan staff, the availability of flexible and remote working opportunities for
those with small children or caring responsibilities, or indeed the roughly equal gender split within the
UoA. At the School level (HLGS), we initiated an Athena SWAN project in 2019, aiming for a Bronze
award in 2021, to sustain our effort to advance equality across all our operations. This has brought
significant positive effects: increased staff awareness in supporting career progression amongst
disadvantaged groups; driving respect for staff; and supporting communicating of Athena SWAN
principles. The data collection process, surveys, interviews and open forum, prompted frank and
constructive discussion and effectively identified specific needs from underrepresented groups
(training on publishing research outputs, mentoring, dissemination).

At institute level, the EDI commitment begins with our postgraduate recruitment; hence IBAR’s receipt
of a Stuart Hall Foundation Scholarship for Jade Montserrat’s PhD project – supervised by Rice and
Lubaina Himid – on the Black Atlantic and the North, capturing £36,000 to the UoA. (Ms Montserrat
is a Black British working-class performance artist and student from Scarborough; IBAR was
approached by the Stuart Hall Foundation to host its scholarship due to IBAR’s expertise in Creative
Practice and scholarship on the Black Atlantic.

Concerns for – and commitment to – equality and diversity are embedded in all our work. In June
2020 UCLan’s Black Lives Matter Committee invited IBAR as a key constituent, with Rice and
Reddick attending. Both IBAR and MIDEX work with the University’s Equality, Diversity, Inclusion
and Communities officer to co-host a series of events over two years, while the direction of Lubaina
Himid and the participation of other Black British and African Diasporan artists—the majority of whom
are women—are further evidence of commitment. Particular IBAR events at UCLan and more widely
with the Preston Black History Group (PBHG) – in an ongoing partnership - have included a Windrush
event (June 2019) featuring a lecture by Hoermann, who has delivered other lectures for PBHG on
19th-century radical abolitionism. IBAR has regularly staged Black History Month events, most
recently in conjunction with the launch of UCLan’s Equality and Diversity unit (October 2018)
featuring a performance and talk by Jade Montserrat. ‘In Conversation’ events for Black History
Month have included presentations by Montserrat, UCLan alumna Reni Eddo-Lodge (who in June
2020 became the first Black British woman to achieve No. 1 in the non-fiction category for Why I’m
No Longer Talking to White People about Race), Queen Quet (Chieftess of the Gullah/Geechee
Nation), and Haas on ‘Black Inter-American Mobilities and Autobiography’. In June 2018 IBAR hosted
a two-day international conference, ‘Women’s Spring: Feminism, Nationalism and Civil
Disobedience’, with speakers from across Europe, Asia, North America and South America
participating in panels on feminism, Queer activism, Black Lives Matter, religious nationalism,
maternity and refugee support. Further afield Rice and Hoermann were key participants and Rice a
consultant on the outreach showcase by the landmark Legacies of British Slave Ownership project.
Rice is also board member of the Centre for the Study of International Slavery (CSIS) in Liverpool
and has collaborated and helped to run events for Liverpool’s International Slavery Museum including
being co-organiser of the Collegium for African American Research conference in 2015 and the
Bluecoat 300 event in 2018 commemorating 300 years of the Bluecoat school, now a celebrated
Liverpool Arts Centre. Hoermann, Saxon, Penier, Montserrat, Haas and Himid have all contributed
to these events. Finally, Rice has been consulted on new Black British entries for the Oxford
Dictionary of National Biography and written 3 new entries to make it fully reflective of Britain’s multi-
racial past. In contributions to the dissemination of local Black British history Rice has developed an
updated Lancaster Slave Trade, Abolition and Fair-Trade Trail pamphlet, distributed across the
town’s cafes, bars and museums, with prominence on the City’s ‘Visit Lancaster’ website.

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Outside of IBAR, in Creative Writing, Reddick’s Magma magazine editing project saw Adam Lowe
taking a role as co-editor, leading to strong BAME and LBGTQ+ participation. (Lowe is a poet,
novelist, publisher, coordinator of the LBGTQ+ literary talent development scheme ‘Young Enigma’
and enabler for Eclipse SLATE, for black and ethnic minority artists.) There was strong BAME
representation in the published issue of the magazine (40%); significant because 14% of the UK
population is BAME (only 10% in the North West), and BAME authors are underrepresented by the
UK’s leading poetry presses. Important LGBTQ+ poets such as Jackie Kay, Jeffrey Sugarman and
Kostya Tsolakis also published work in the issue. Reddick also sits, along with Saxon, on the
School’s Athena Swan committee. Meanwhile, Kaufman’s 2016 work on Woody Guthrie has largely
focused on Guthrie’s anti-racist activism, specifically his conflicts with Fred Trump, leading to major
cultural interventions and discussions on race throughout the 2016 and 2020 US presidential
campaigns and the 2018 US mid-term elections.


  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

During REF2021 UoA27 have captured funding totaling £555,808 (up from £177,931 in the previous
REF period—an increase of £377,897). IBAR has been particularly strong in attracting funding, with
Hoermann securing €299,558 for a Marie Curie Intra-European Fellowship (2014-16) as PI on
‘Transatlantic Politics of Horror and Terror in Gothic Narratives of the Haitian Revolution, 1791-2011’,
as well as a three-month Visiting Fellowship at the Centre for Concurrences in Colonial and
Postcolonial Studies, Linnaeus University, Växjö, Sweden (2016), worth £8,500. Rice was CI for a
£6,000 Paul Mellon Foundation Publication Grant, (2016) for the Liverpool University Press volume,
Inside the Visible: Slavery and Memory in the Work of Lubaina Himid, 1985-2018. In August 2016
Penier’s EU Horizon 2020 Marie Curie Skoldowska Intra-European Fellowship secured €195,455 for
her project, ‘Black Women/Black Nationalism: Feminist Discourses on Nation-building in American
and British Literature and Visual Arts’. In February 2019 Haas secured an EU Horizon 2020 Marie
Curie Skoldowska Intra-European Fellowship worth €212,933 as PI for her project ‘Black Inter-
American Mobility and Autobiography in the Age of Revolutions, 1760-1860’. Willson secured
£91,000 for a Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship in May 2019, as PI on the project ‘Fanm Rebèl:
Recovering the Histories of Haiti’s Women Revolutionaries,’ with Willson appearing on Dan Snow’s
History Hit podcast (October 2019); notice in the BBC History Magazine (December 2019); an
address to the Haitian Studies Association conference (October 2019); an address to a UK
Parliamentary committee on Haiti chaired by Lord Leslie Griffiths (March 2020); and a co-edited
special issue of the journal Slavery and Abolition (February 2020). January 2017 saw Rice and Himid
secure a Stuart Hall Foundation PhD Studentship Grant of £36,000 for a creative practice project on
‘The Black Atlantic and the North,’ won by Jade Montserrat through open competition. Collectively
these projects have strengthened IBAR’s research profile, while future fellowships through MIDEX
(with £10,000 already budgeted at the time of writing) will enable participating UoA members to build
on these successes.

Beyond IBAR and MIDEX, Reddick has brought considerable funding to Creative Writing, with her
AHRC Leadership Fellowship (£91,000) (a significant accolade for UCLan with only 8% of grants
awarded to the New University sector), £11,800 from Arts Council England, a Hawthornden
Foundation Fellowship and a visiting Writer’s Fellowship at Chateau de Lavigny, Switzerland. She
also secured internal funding for her art and poetry exhibition, Deerheart, co-curated by artist Diana
Zwibach (a project commenced in 2015 as a contribution to a collaborative exhibition at Cambridge
University’s prestigious New Hall Art Collection, subsequently trialed at UCLan’s PR1 Gallery (2016)
before transfer to Summerhall, Edinburgh, 2017). Hampton-Reeves secured two Arts Council
England grants, worth £15,000 each, for his Preston Jazz and Improvisation Festival of 2018, and
was awarded a 2019 Mellon Foundation Research Fellowship Endowment for his work on British
director Peter Hall at the Harry Ransom Center, University of Texas at Austin.

All UoA27 staff are supported through the University’s Grants and Funding Unit, who are available
to assist all bid writers from project conception to submission. At Faculty level there is a dedicated

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
bid writer and mentor, supporting all staff to develop ideas into grant opportunities. The Faculty
designed a peer-review process, acting as a critical friend focused on improving draft bid quality—
mandatory for all bids over £50,000 and optional for smaller bids. Members of the professoriate and
UoA leads, including previous grant winners, act as peer reviewers. Peer review also operates at
School, Research Centre and UoA level; thus, for example, Reddick’s application for a major AHRC
Leadership Fellowship was peer reviewed not only by the Faculty’s bid writer but also by three
members of the professoriate from Literature and Film, while for MIDEX, Hoermann peer-reviewed
both Penier and Haas’s Marie Curie bids. Reddick, in turn, has advised colleagues and students on
writing bids for funding from the Northern Writers’ Awards.

Additional funding — actual or ‘in kind’— has accrued outside of formal bidding processes. Kaufman
has presented his ‘live documentaries’ on Woody Guthrie at over 100 public UK venues the USA and
Switzerland since December 2014 — including shows at the Woody Guthrie Center and a TEDx talk
in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Travel, accommodation, subsistence and other ‘in kind’ assistance for these
presentations will have amounted to several thousand pounds.

In terms of infrastructure and facilities, open access remains a key provision where possible. Hence
UCLan’s maintenance of the OJS platform that hosts, among other titles, the Woody Guthrie Annual
launched by Kaufman in 2015, while Penier’s monograph, Culture-bearing Women: The Black
Women Renaissance and Cultural Nationalism (2019) is an open-access publication from De
Gruyter. An IBAR/MIDEX ‘Creative Conversations’ video series— ‘Black Women Artists Making and
Doing’— is posted on UCLan’s web pages.

In addition to the University-wide facilities that are available to all researchers – for instance the
Library and Learning Resource Service with its ample book stock, journal subscriptions and myriad
online facilities – IBAR hosts dedicated office spaces for its PhDs and visiting fellows. (A similar
space is currently being developed for MIDEX.) Newer UCLan buildings such as the Media Factory
host IBAR exhibitions and performances, while the UoA’ s relationship with the Harris Museum in
Preston has enabled Reddick to share her work with the public through exhibition and creative writing
workshops. UoA27 members preside over the Live Literature Room in the Livesey Building, a
designated space equipped for teaching and performing, with a stage, lighting, and microphones,
demonstrating UCLan’s commitment to our UoA. This facilitates book launches, Open Mic events,
and creative writing workshops, benefiting both undergraduates and postgraduates. Our staff and
students also engage with a wholly professional and legitimate publishing house, UCLan Publishing,
which have published the Preston-based novels of New York Times bestselling children’s author A.
J. Hartley (Cold Bath Street, nominated for the 2019 Carnegie Medal, and its sequel, Monsters in the
Mirror).

  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaboration, partnership and networking are core to IBAR’s operations, internally and externally to
the University, convening academics, municipal councils, arts organisations and local individuals on
economic and cultural projects. As a multi-disciplinary and interdisciplinary enterprise, IBAR relies
on scholars working across literary and cultural studies, history, art history and performance. UCLan
members from various UoAs contribute their expertise, views and techniques, while a host of visiting
scholars have established and maintained connections with the Institute. These include Professor
Gretchen Gerzina, University of Massachusetts, 2017 recipient of UCLan Distinguished Visitor
funding for her contribution to IBAR’s Black History in Britain programme (resulting in a volume
Britain’s Black Past (Liverpool UP, 2020 that includes essays by Rice, Saxon and Hoermann);
Professor E. Patrick Johnson from Northwestern University, funded by the US Embassy and British
Association for American Studies, to speak at the 2015 conference of the Collegium for African
American Research as well as IBAR’s Theatre and Performance conference; Professor Winston
James from University of California at Irvine (co-funded by the US Embassy and BAAS), who spoke
at the IBAR ‘Red and Black’ conference in 2017; and Professor Maria Sanelli, Director of the
Frederick Douglass Institute at Kutztown University, Pennsylvania, who brought 12 UG/PG students
for an IBAR-crafted bespoke course on social justice, delivered by UoA27 members Rice,
Hoermann, Saxon and Kaufman, and PhD student Jade Montserrat. Sanelli invited Rice to return

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
to Kutztown in Spring 2020 to present a lecture series on Frederick Douglass through the University
of Pennsylvania system at the 14 Frederick Douglass Institutes she leads. For this Rice secured a
$1,000 grant from Kutztown, match funded from MIDEX. (Due to COVID, this visit has been
postponed until conditions permit.)

IBAR members have led curated exhibitions on Black Atlantic history and culture, including ‘Lubaina
Himid’s Radical Work’ at the opening of the Inside the Invisible exhibition at Muzeum Mazowieckie
in Plock, Poland, in October 2017, co-curated by Penier and with a keynote by Rice and
simultaneous translation into Polish at a public event with over 100 participants. Rice is also
organising a virtual exhibition memorialising the massacred Africans aboard British slave ship Zong
in 1781, in conjunction with Lancaster Maritime Museum and Lancaster City Council, to go live in
mid-February 2021 with an accompanying catalogue published by UCLan Press (co-edited by Rice
and Andrea Sillis).

IBAR is firmly engaged in community-based partnerships to enhance the lives of local people. Rice
is board member of the Lancaster Jazz Festival and runs events with them, including a visit from
Spanish author Professor Maria Rocio Cobo Piñero, who gave a festival presentation (July 2018) on
the rise of jazz in Spain between the wars. IBAR has also been working with Sewing Café Lancaster,
a community group advocating for ethical clothing and textiles; where Rice has been an advisor on
the history of cotton, conducting local slave site tours, (2018 and 2019) and participating on a panel
for Fashion Revolution Week. His work with the Preston Black History Group spans years, with their
members speaking at IBAR events and vice versa; recent events have included an IBAR-hosted
Windrush Day Celebration for Refugee Week 2019, with funding from the Department of Local
Government and Communities. Rice presented at the Irish World Heritage Centre on Frederick
Douglass in Ireland (2017), for Black History Month at the Nelson library (2018), at Deepdale
Stadium for a Royal College of Nursing Black History Month event on local and global Black histories
(2019) and at Calne Heritage Centre, Wiltshire, with the inaugural Leonora Casey Carr Lecture on
‘Memorials and Black Identity’ (2019). For Black History Month 2019, IBAR collaborated with MIDEX
and UoA27’s ‘In Conversation’ seminar series to host Queen Quet, Chieftess of the Gullah/Geechee
Nation, South Carolina Sea Islands. Most recently, in July 2020, Rice participated in a ‘Discovering
Our Local Heritage’ event organised by Lancaster City Council, speaking on ‘Black Lives Matter Now
and Then: Rescuing Black Agency in Lancaster’s Slave History’ in an online webinar, accessible on
the Council website.

Creative Writing colleagues have been active in collaborations and partnerships with external
bodies such as Comma Press, an award-winning independent Manchester publisher. In 2017 Kruger
co-founded the national Dinesh Allirajah Prize for Short Fiction – an annual writing prize
posthumously commemorating a UCLan Creative Writing Lecturer, co-run by Comma Press and
UCLan and is shortlisted every year by UCLan Literature and Creative Writing students. The prize
continues to develop with a new partner, Northern Soul, and the 2019 prize celebration was included
at the Northern Short Story Festival. Representatives from Comma Press also act as visiting
speakers on the publishing industry and the new Northern Fiction Alliance as well as offering
internships to UCLan staff and students. Braithwaite has written plays commissioned by Climate
Change Theatre Action, a New Zealand-based organisation devoted to using theatre to highlight
effects of climate change. The organisation invites international playwrights to write short plays (five
minutes long); which are compiled into shows that are produced globally, mostly in universities and
local community centres across the Antipodes, Europe, Africa, Asia and North and South America.
Braithwaite’s plays Swing Among the Stars and Ice Flow have been included in Climate Change
Theatre Action’s public festivals and productions at Vassar College (New York), Presbyterian College
(South Carolina), Hasting College (Nebraska), the Carnegie Mellon School of Drama (Pennsylvania),
Massey University (New Zealand), University of Dayton (Ohio), Missouri State University, Quest
University (British Columbia), Southern Arkansas University, Normandale Community College
(Minnesota) and diverse public venues including the Midland Arts Theatre Centre in Houston, Chapel
Arts Centre in Cardiff, PAN Shanghai (China), West Seoul Arts Centre (Korea) and Maria Reiche
Park in Lima, Peru.



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Reddick’s impact work has involved collaborating closely with the Magma poetry journal. Her
creative writing workshops and resources for the ‘Poetry, Grief and Healing’ project to help bereaved
people have been adopted by a host of external partners including the NHS Lancashire Recovery
College, the Arvon Foundation, the Poetry in Aldeburgh festival, St Catherine’s Hospice, the Torriano
Meeting House writing workshops, the Harris Museum, Gallery and Library, the ‘Poems in the Waiting
Room’ project, writing therapist Amy Tempest and Valley Journal’s bereavement support course.
Reddick’s other community projects have included – along with Kruger – creative writing workshops
with refugees and asylum seekers in Preston, in collaboration with local charity Pukar and the School
of Social Work, Care and Community. Reddick is currently establishing a partnership with the
National Trust, developing creative projects that touch on history, heritage, narrative and
psychogeography based locally at Rufford Hall. Within UCLan, Reddick’s interdisciplinary
collaborations with the School of Medicine and the School of Community Health and Midwifery have
include joint funding bids for a project to develop young people’s resilience through writing, art, music
and community projects. Bids for Leverhulme Trust and Wellcome Trust funding will be submitted in
2021, involving staff from the three participating Schools. Creative Writing colleagues have also
hosted Chinese scholar and poet Wang Fang from the Shanghai University of Sports, who visited
UCLan across 2018-19, supported by a £1,200 grant from the Shanghai Educational Bureau. Under
Reddick’s mentorship Ms Fang researched the environmental poetry of Robert Frost and Tao
Yuanming, also translating bestselling Chinese poet Yu Xiuhua into English; resulting in her
publishing poems co-translated with Reddick in the prestigious poetry journal PN Review and the
poetry magazine Smoke.

Willson’s Leverhulme-funded website Fanm Rebèl (Haitian rebel women) serves as a co-curated
open access digital archive, gallery, resource centre and hub of expertise and further learning,
inviting collaborations and contributions from scholars, collectors, conservators, archivists and
other interested parties in the research community. Willson’s impact is extended through a recent
documentary in collaboration with the Haitian Chamber of Commerce, on the British exile of Haitian
queen Marie-Louise, which as of 22 January 2021 had attracted 7,462 viewings.

Media work has been a strong aspect of UoA27’s contribution to the research base and social
awareness in the UK and abroad. Three UoA members have written for The Conversation during
the census period (5 pieces by Kaufman with a combined global readership of 992,935 as of this
writing; 2 pieces by Saxon with a combined readership of 3,949; 1 piece by Rice with a readership
of 248,425). Rice’s Conversation piece, ‘Black Troops Were Welcome Here but Jim Crow Was Not’
discussed the ramifications of a mutiny in Bamber Bridge, Lancashire by African American GIs and
has attracted interest for treatments from actors, directors and production companies including
British director Josie Rourke. Kaufman’s Conversation pieces, ‘Woody Guthrie, “Old Man Trump”
and a Real Estate Empire’s Racist Foundation’ and ‘In Another Newly Discovered Song, Woody
Guthrie Continues His Assault on “Old Man Trump”’ introduced the world to Guthrie’s anti-Trump
writings and were either reprinted in full or substantially referenced in such major news outlets as
the New York Times, the Guardian, the Washington Post, the Telegraph, the New Yorker,
Newsweek, Time, New Statesman, the Los Angeles Times, the Times of London, CNN, PBS, CBC
and a host of newspapers and sites in Europe, Asia, South America and Australia – as well as being
referenced by talk show hosts such as Jimmy Fallon on The Tonight Show and Amy Goodman on
Democracy Now! (and even game show hosts such as Victoria Coren Mitchell on the BBC’s Only
Connect). Kaufman’s Conversation pieces on Guthrie and ‘Old Man Trump’ have also been the
basis of musical recordings and performances by Tom Morello, Ani DiFranco, Ryan Harvey, Lucinda
Williams and other musicians and groups who have chosen to sing versions of Guthrie’s anti-Trump
songs – first unearthed by Kaufman – as part of the cultural resistance against the Donald Trump
presidency. Hence, for example, Johnny Irion and US Elevator’s contribution of their version of ‘Old
Man Trump’ to the online resistance project, 30 Days, 30 Songs (latterly retitled 1000 Days, 1000
Songs), ‘written and recorded by musicians for a Trump-free America’ and described by the
Washington Post as ‘a playlist of songs that Donald Trump will hate’. Kaufman’s Conversation
writings have also fueled several commercial Trump biographies since the 2016 presidential
campaign as well as two high-profile pieces perpetuating Guthrie’s relevance to the 2018 US mid-
term elections: Amanda Petrusich’s ‘A Story about Fred Trump and Woody Guthrie for the Midterm
Elections’ (The New Yorker, 6 November 2018) and John Whitlow’s, ‘Trump Is Just Another Crooked

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
New York City Landlord’ (New York Times, 4 October 2018). Kaufman was chief consultant and
contributor for the BBC 4 television documentary, Woody Guthrie: Three Chords and the Truth
(2019), reviewed by the Sunday Telegraph as ‘The Very Best of the Week Ahead’ (earning 4 stars),
as ‘Critic’s Choice’ for the Times, and ‘Pick of the Day’ for the Observer. All reviewers have made a
point of highlighting the Guthrie-Trump connection; even the Daily Mail noted the documentary as
evidence of ‘a life and legacy that still resonates in 2019’, while – perhaps the most ironically –
Breitbart’s outraged profile of Tom Morello’s anti-Trump activism (June 2016) included substantial
reference to Guthrie’s songs and Kaufman’s Conversation piece. Kaufman is currently consultant
for a theatrical show and album on Guthrie, Fire and Dust, in progress from the UK singer-songwriter
Reg Meuross, written by actor and writer Ben Keaton and produced by Pete Townshend of The Who.

Among other UoA27 colleagues, Rice was consultant and interviewee on the Korean Broadcasting
Network’s programme Empire of the Sea: Sugar and Slavery (2015), consultant and interviewee to
BBC Radio 4’s Britain’s Black Past (2016), contributing expert on African American spirituals and the
England rugby song ‘Swing Low, Sweet Chariot’ on BBC Breakfast (2017), consultant and
interviewee on BBC 4’s A Stitch in Time (2018), Channel 4’s Great Canal Journeys: The Lancaster
Canal (2018) and BBC 2’s Villages by the Sea (2019). Rice also published a feature article, ‘Lost and
Found: Echoes of Britain’s Black Voices’, in THE in June 2015. Reddick’s poem, ‘Imagines’, was
chosen for publication by Carol Ann Duffy for a Guardian article on vanishing insects in 2019 and
Reddick wrote a groundbreaking article on an unpublished poem by the African novelist Amos
Tutuola for the TLS, June 2020.

Convening and conference organising has been highly productive within the census period.
Before departure from UCLan, Hampton-Reeves organised an international conference on
‘Shakespeare in Practice’ (2018) and has been on organising committees for British Shakespeare
Association conferences at the Universities of Stirling and Hull, as well as six national conferences
and two world congresses for the British Conference of Undergraduate Research. Saxon was
organiser of IBAR’s ‘Theatre and Performance’ conference, co-sponsored by the British Association
for American Studies and the US Embassy (2015, with 45 delegates). Hoermann was the main
convener of IBAR’s ‘After Revolution: Versions and Re-Visions of Haiti’, co-organised with the Centre
for the Study of International Slavery (2015). Hoermann was also the main local organiser of the
Society for Caribbean Studies 43rd Annual Conference (2019), hosted by IBAR with a keynote
address by Caryl Phillips and a sponsored address by Clinton Smith of the Preston Black History
Group, who brought local Caribbean knowledge to this international conference of 80 delegates. Rice
has organised or co-organised a plethora of conferences and panels, including ‘Mobilising Memory:
Creating African Atlantic Identities’ at Liverpool Hope University in partnership with the International
Slavery Museum and the Bluecoat School (2015); ‘Art, Culture and Ethics in Black and White
Network: 100 years of D.W. Griffith's The Birth of a Nation’ (Whitworth Art Gallery and International
Slavery Museum, 2015; 200 participants); ‘Lost Children: The Black Atlantic and Northern Britain’
(IBAR and the Bronte Parsonage Museum, 2015; 120 participants, with Caryl Phillips launching his
novel, The Lost Child, and Saxon leading a literary tour of the Brontes’ Haworth); ‘Performance and
Politics in the Black Atlantic, 1789-2016’ (IBAR, 2016), with keynotes by George Lipsitz and Celeste-
Marie Barnier before 60 delegates; ‘Bluecoat 300: Charity, Philanthropy and the Black Atlantic’
(2017), with 100 delegates in partnership with the International Slavery Museum and the Bluecoat
Arts Centre, Liverpool; ‘The Red and the Black: The Russian Revolution and the Black Atlantic’
(IBAR, 2017), with addresses by Linton Kwesi Johnson and Winston James; ‘Women’s Spring:
Feminism, Nationalism and Civil Disobedience’ (2018, co-organised by Penier), with delegates from
23 countries, some sponsored by the Government of Pakistan; ‘What Is Happening in Black British
History’ (IBAR and the Institute for Commonwealth Studies, 2017); ‘Slavery, Emancipation and Art’
(IBAR and the British Academy, 2017); ‘Music and Freedom’ (IBAR and the Ribble Valley Jazz
Festival, with Arts Council funding, 2017). In January 2020 as a celebration of Lubaina Himid’s 2017
Turner Prize award, IBAR organised ‘Creative Conversations: Black Women Artists,’ on the
synergies and influence of Black women’s writing on Black British artists, with a keynote conversation
between Lubaina Himid and Jackie Kay MBE and featuring 175 participants, including many of the
most influential Black women artists of the last forty years and with a racially diverse audience
including many new young Black artists (2020). In October 2020, Willson co-convened a Courtauld


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research Forum Webinar, ‘Afterlives of the Kingdom of Haiti, 1820-2020’. Through IBAR and MIDEX,
Rice is currently organising a range of international conferences including ‘Communities of
Engagement: Contesting Borders, Barriers and Walls in the Era of Climate Crisis’ (in partnership with
the Multi-Ethnic Society of Europe and the Americas, IBAR/UCLan Cyprus, 2022, postponed from
2020 due to COVID).

Public lectures, presentations and keynote addresses are an important aspect of UoA27’s
domestic and international activities. Rice’s local and community talks, including museum and library
talks, have included presentations at Manchester Public Library (2015), the National Museum of
Scotland (2015), Portico Library, Manchester (2017), the Irish World Heritage Centre, Manchester
(2017), Nelson Public Library (2018), the Calne Heritage Centre, Wiltshire (2019) and the Royal
College of Nursing (2019). Rice’s open-to-the-public University lectures included ‘Tracing Roots and
Routes: African Atlantic Residents and Sojourners in the Cottonopolis, 1789-1956’ for Black History
Month at Manchester Metropolitan University (2015); ‘Transatlantic Abolition’ at the University of
Manchester Research Day (2015) and ‘Ways Forward for Black British History’ for the Institute of
Commonwealth Studies’ Black British History Workshop at the University of Liverpool (2015). Rice’s
20 invited keynote and plenary presentations at international conferences since January 2015 include
addresses at University of California at Santa Barbara, Kutztown University (Pennsylvania),
University of North Carolina, University of Bremen, Edinburgh University, Université Paris-Diderot,
University of Alicante, University of Athens, Ferrara University (Italy), Aarhus University and National
Museum of Denmark, University of Leiden, State University of Applied Sciences in Plock (in
collaboration with Muzeum Mazowieckie) and University of Amsterdam. Hoermann presented on
‘Haiti and Transmodernity in the Black Atlantic’ for the Merzakademie and Art Association of
Württemberg in Stuttgart, Germany (2017). Kaufman’s TEDx talk, Woody Guthrie and the Art of
Making Good (2017) was arranged in partnership with the Woody Guthrie Center and Tulsa
Community College, Oklahoma. His live presentations of ‘Woody Guthrie and “Old Man Trump”’ –
first delivered as the 2018 Matthew Caygill Memorial Lecture at Leeds Beckett University – have
been included on a variety of public arts festival programmes including the Wellingborough Diggers’
Festival, the Greenwich Village Trip Festival in New York, the DuMaurier/Fowey Festival of Arts and
Literature, the Whitby Folk Festival and the Durham Book Festival. Kaufman has also presented
‘Woody Guthrie and “Old Man Trump’” at civic arts centres from Birnham, Scotland and Ashburton,
Devon to Woodstock, New York and Sacramento, California, as well as scores of folk clubs, music
venues, and town-and-gown University presentations on both sides of the Atlantic.




                                                                                              Page 13
