Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Bangor University (10007857)

 Unit of Assessment: 7 - Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 How research is structured

 Bangor University’s College of Environmental Sciences and Engineering (CoESE), established
 in 2018, is at the centre of Bangor’s ambition, since REF2014, to advance research excellence
 in environmental science. Our submission to UoA7 spans two Schools, the internationally
 recognised School of Ocean Sciences (SOS) and the newly formed School of Natural Sciences
 (SNS), plus interdisciplinary Centres of Excellence including the Centre for Environmental
 Biotechnology (CEB), Centre for Applied Marine Sciences (CAMS) and Biocomposites Centre
 (BC). They comprise one of the largest groupings of environmental scientists in the UK (83
 Category A staff; 75.3 FTE) benefitting from shared premises, the Environment Centre Wales,
 with the NERC core-funded UK Centre for Ecology and Hydrology (UKCEH). We provide
 international leadership through world class research and delivery of impact ranging from global
 environmental change to sustainable food production.

 Our UoA7 research activity is led by staff across diverse disciplines, allowing fundamental
 understanding of the physical environment (Research Theme 1: Earth Systems Science and
 Physical Oceanography) and its relationship with basic biological processes (Research
 Theme 2: Microbiology, Biogeochemistry and Biotechnology). Theme 3 (Evolution,
 Physiology and Behaviour) explores the biology of organisms at a higher level, which feeds
 into extensive research in resource management, sustainable food production and the interface
 with social sciences (Theme 4: Sustainable Use, Conservation and Ecology of Natural
 Resources). These themes address fundamental and applied questions delivering impact of
 international excellence; they overlay the school/centre structures to create strong multi-
 disciplinary groups that foster inter-disciplinary research, build on existing strengths, and enable
 us to respond to the needs of industry, policy makers and society.

 Since the creation of CoESE, Bangor has established strategies that allow staff to respond
 rapidly to developing societal challenges (particularly those crossing disciplines), develop intra-
 and inter-institutional collaborations and produce research outputs and impact of the highest
 international level. Key strategic aims are to: a) recruit and invest in talented environmental
 scientists who can provide leadership in disciplinary and interdisciplinary fields (see section 2);
 b) develop strategic links with government, industry and NGOs across the environmental
 sciences in order to develop true partnerships and a joint vision in developing fundamental
 research to address applied problems; c) place achievement of research impact at the heart of
 our research agenda; d) invest in infrastructure to attain strategic research objectives and lever
 research funding (see section 3); e) facilitate the expansion of national and international
 networks (see section 4); f) continually grow post-graduate student numbers, explore innovative
 funding mechanisms to support interdisciplinary PhDs, and train excellent researchers able to
 address the environmental challenges faced by society globally; g) foster careers of technicians,
 post-docs and other early career researchers.

 Our strategic vision is guided through the CoESE Research Committee led by the College
 Director of Research (Healey) supported by staff from the University Research Innovation and
 Impact Office. The Research Committees of the component Schools, each with 8-10 members
 made up of staff from ECR’s to Professors representing disciplines across the environmental
 sciences, provide bottom-up input to the research strategy.

 Our strategy has resulted in a strengthening of our position within the environmental field
 during the current REF period, evidenced by an increase of 23% in number of PhDs awarded
 per FTE per year, and an increase of 32% in external research income per FTE per year


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 compared with REF2014 (when calculated on the equivalent basis of the Category A FTE
 submitted to UoA7 in REF2021 – change in submission composition explained in section 1.2).


 1.2 Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact during the REF period

 In REF2014 we made joint submissions to UoA6 and UoA7 with Aberystwyth University.
 Subsequently, Bangor’s restructuring into CoESE has allowed us to focus investment and
 resource toward achieving our REF2014 strategic vision of providing leadership of
 environmental sciences within Wales through ‘addressing the grand environmental challenges of
 the 21st Century’ and hence make a single, Bangor UoA7 submission. We have delivered world-
 class research and impact through development of strengthened and new collaborative pan-
 Wales activities (detailed below), the consolidation of numerous areas of strength including
 physical oceanography and fundamental ecology (across terrestrial and marine realms), and the
 strategic development of a number of priority research areas.

 Our performance within the Welsh Government-funded Sêr Cymru National Research Network
 for Low Carbon Energy and the Environment (NRN-LCEE) and BEACON+ (Biorefining Centre of
 Excellence, a GBP12,000,000 pan-Wales project with Aberystwyth and Swansea focussed on
 the conversion of biomass and biowastes into biobased products) exemplify national strategic
 leadership. NRN-LCEE (2013-2022) is a GBP7,000,000 pan-Wales initiative, directed from
 Bangor by Thomas, then (phase 2) by Jones-J. Five of its eight competitively awarded research
 clusters across Wales were led by Bangor: Resilcoast, QUOTIENT, Multi-Land, Climate Smart
 Grass, and Cleaner Cows. By the end of the NRN-LCEE, Bangor researchers had won
 competitive funding for 30 projects, leveraging GBP6,130,000 from RCUK, EU and other
 sources. Collaborative delivery through BEACON+ and via NRN-LCEE projects demonstrates
 the ongoing close research partnership with Aberystwyth University and the synergistic benefits
 of inter-institutional and interdisciplinary collaborations.

 Within Bangor we have strategically prioritised investment in multi-disciplinary research, e.g. the
 application of fundamental oceanography and marine mammal ecology in renewable energy
 development, with a strong link into engineering (UoA12); the integration of fundamental
 microbiology and advanced modelling into forest and agricultural science and in biotechnology; a
 major strengthening of remote sensing and spatial modelling with cross-cutting applications
 across marine and forest resources and conservation; the social science interface informing
 environmental and conservation policy (UoA21). A notable component of our multi-disciplinarity
 is that over 40% of our researchers collaborate across the four research themes, forming a
 resilient reticulate research network.

 Our goal of providing leadership in environmental sciences through the REF2021 period
 is evidenced below, within and across the Research themes. (All category A and B staff are
 listed below, category B underlined; * indicates new appointments during this REF period; only
 Bangor category A/B staff authors of cited papers are named):

 Earth Systems Science and Physical Oceanography (Austin, Baas, Butler, Davies-A,
 Gibbons, Green, Lenn, Patil, Rippeth, Robins*, Rosa*, Scourse, Valbuena*, van Landeghem)

 Bangor’s Physical Oceanography group have a track record of over 5 decades of world-leading
 research, largely focusing on shelf seas and oceanic mixing processes. Over the current REF
 period they have used novel turbulence measurements to characterise key mixing processes in
 the open ocean (Lenn,Rippeth.2014 Geophysical Research Letters; Rippeth.2019 Journal of
 Physical Oceanography). They have compiled the first pan-Arctic Ocean map of turbulent mixing
 and shown the importance of the tide in supporting mixing hot spots (Rippeth,Lenn,Green.2015
 Nature Geoscience), identifying the mechanisms responsible (Rippeth,Green.2017 Geophysical
 Research Letters). Specifically, they have focused on the increasing role of intruding Atlantic
 water heat in driving sea ice retreat, identifying a sea-ice regime shift in the Barents Sea
 (Lenn.2018 Journal of Physical Oceanography) and the growing importance of oceanic heat in

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the eastern Arctic (Rippeth.2020 Journal of Climate). Lenn leads the Changing Arctic Ocean
 project PEANUTS (NERC/German Federal Ministry), which applies these techniques to
 investigate the impact of changing mixing regimes on Arctic Ocean primary production. Green
 has developed the global tidal modelling capacity to cover deep time simulations, and led
 international collaborations that discovered a ‘tidal super cycle’ linked to continental drift
 (Green.2018 Geophysical Research Letters), weakened tidal mixing during Cryogenian
 glaciations (Green.2020 Nature Communications), the potential role of tides in osteichthyan
 evolution and the fish-tetrapod transition (Green.2020 Philosophical Transactions A). Through
 collaboration with NASA, he is addressing questions about the evolution and habitability of an
 early Venus (Green.2019 Astrophysical Journal Letters).

 The Sediment Dynamics group assesses and predicts flow and seabed dynamics. Baas led the
 multi-institutional NERC COHBED project that investigated the role of ‘sticky’ biological polymers
 in ripple and dune stability. This has revolutionised understanding of bedform evolution
 (Baas.2015 Nature Communications), including in the deep ocean (Baas.2020 Geology) leading
 to development of improved numerical models for sediment transport by industry. Austin led the
 EPSRC WASP project that quantified wave energy dissipation across rocky platforms for the first
 time (Austin.2018 Journal Geophysical Research).

 Much of the work of this group provides underpinning for cross-theme strengthening, including
 linkage to other UoA’s. For example, Austin and Rippeth’s work on marine turbulence
 measurements, Green’s tidal modelling and Baas and van Landegham’s seabed mobility
 modelling are strongly linked to Bangor’s marine energy research (UoA12). Robins’ expertise in
 particle tracking has been integral to much of our fisheries and aquaculture research. Also, earth
 systems-based remote sensing and modelling (e.g. Gibbons-natural resources; Patil-hydrology)
 adds excellence in innovative applications within Theme 4, including forest structure
 (Valbuena.2020 Global Change Biology) and conservation (Rosa.2015 Conservation Biology)
 assessments.

 Microbiology, Biogeochemistry and Biotechnology (Al-Dulayymi, Bird, Braganca, Charlton,
 Curling, Fenner, Freeman, Golyshin, Golyshina, Hill, Johnson, McDonald-J, Ormondroyd, Jones-
 D, Smith, Spear, Thomas-D, Tverezovsky, Tverezovskya, Wang, Yakuinin*)

 Golyshin, Yakunin and Golyshina have a long and successful record of research in
 extremophiles, environmental microbiology, metagenomics and enzyme discovery for
 applications in biotechnology. This collaborative work laid the foundation for the creation in 2017
 of the Centre for Environmental Biotechnology (CEB) and has resulted in advances in the
 isolation and characterization of new extremophilic taxa (Golyshin.2016 ISME Journal;
 Golyshina,Golyshin.2017 Nature Communications) as well as discovery of the first
 methanogenic halophilic archaea (Golyshin.2017 Nature Microbiology). Yakunin and Golyshin
 have made important contributions to enzyme discovery (over 1000 cloned, expressed and
 characterised enzymes, e.g. Yakunin.2016 Nature Chemical Biology) partly through leadership
 at a European level through the INMARE Project (24 academic and industrial partners) and have
 applied these to key biotechnology processes (Yakunin.2020 Journal American Chemical
 Society).

 Our work in biogeochemistry links across research themes and builds on long-standing close
 collaboration with UKCEH. In plant-soil-microbial interactions we provide leadership at national
 and international levels undertaking the most extensive survey of below-ground life in Europe
 (Jones-D.2019 Nature Communications) within the Welsh national Glastir Monitoring and
 Evaluation Programme, and discovering new N-cycling processes in the warming Antarctic
 (Hill,Jones-D.2019 Ecology Letters). McDonald-J is rapidly assuming international research
 leadership in the microbiology of the bacterial pathogens of forest trees; collaboration with the
 Forest Research agency has produced notable advances in discovery of the identity and
 functioning of the bacteria responsible for acute oak decline (McDonald-J.2018 ISME Journal;
 McDonald-J.2019 Microbial Genomics). Freeman is a long-established international leader in
 carbon cycling, with an emphasis on peatland where he, with Fenner, has made major

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 advances in understanding the mechanisms determining their carbon dynamics and greenhouse
 gas fluxes (Fenner,Freeman.2020 Nature Climate Change), also applied to impacts of
 aquaculture (Freeman.2019 Nature Climate Change). Our biogeochemistry extends to polar sea
 ice, e.g. in establishing the first metabolic pathway for production of extracellular polymeric
 substances in polar diatoms (Thomas.2018 ISME Journal).

 The Biocomposites Centre (BC), led by Charlton (Biorefinery), Ormondroyd (Materials) and
 Tverezovskiy (Chemistry), has been at the forefront of research, development and commercial
 application of bio-based alternatives to synthetic materials leading to significant impact on
 manufacturing industry (further details in section 1.3).

 Evolution, Physiology and Behaviour (Bishop, Braig, Carvalho, Comeault*, Crandell*, Creer,
 Ellison*, Foote*, Georgiev*, Holland*, Malhotra, Mulley, Papadopulos*, Shannon*, Steele,
 Turner-G, Webster, Whiteley, Wuster)

 We use leading-edge molecular and bioinformatic approaches across diverse taxa and habitats
 to tackle significant and timely issues in evolutionary biology and molecular ecology. Advancing
 knowledge of speciation mechanisms and conservation genetics are primary objectives. Turner-
 G is an expert in African cichlid fish evolution, with recent groundbreaking research revealing the
 genomic architecture (Turner-G.2015 Science) and evolutionary processes underpinning the
 world’s most extensive recent vertebrate adaptive radiation (Turner-G.2018 Nature Ecology
 Evolution). Papadopulos has significantly advanced understanding of the importance of
 geographic modes of island speciation (Papadopulos.2015 Evolution) and causes of variation in
 speciation rates amongst lineages (Papadopulos.2017 PLOS Biology). Comeault applied
 evolutionary genomics to mechanisms of parallel speciation (Comeault.2014 Science), Foote to
 convergent evolution (Foote.2015 Nature Genetics) and rapid ecotypic divergence (Foote.2016
 Nature Communications) in marine vertebrates, and Georgiev to speciation in hominid gut
 microbiota (Georgiev.2016 Science) and the origin of the main malaria parasite (Georgiev.2014
 Nature Communications). Applied molecular ecology is led by Creer, an established global
 pioneer in high-throughput identification of biodiversity. His NERC Highlight Topic and Standard
 grants led to breakthroughs in biodiversity insights derived from freshwater eDNA (Creer.2017
 Nature Communications), human allergic disease and aerial grass pollen (Creer.2019 Nature
 Ecology Evolution).

 Across CoESE we have a demonstrable track record in the behaviour and physiology of animals
 with a strong emphasis on animal movement. High impact work by Bishop on the environmental
 physiology of flight has revealed that contrary to predictions, high altitude flight has a significant
 cost (Bishop.2015 Science) and that frigate birds track atmospheric conditions during
 transoceanic flights (Bishop.2016 Science). Holland’s work on navigation led to the first
 functional demonstration of polarized light use in a mammal (Holland.2014 Nature
 Communications) and use of magnetic declination to solve the longitude problem by migratory
 birds (Holland.2017 Current Biology). Through bioacoustics Shannon demonstrated that
 elephants can determine ethnicity and gender from cues in human voices (Shannon.2014
 PNAS).

 Sustainable Use, Conservation and Ecology of Natural Resources (Cameron*, Chadwick,
 Cross, Cordes*, Davies-T, Gibbons, Gimenez, Healey, Heenan*, Hiddink, Hold*, Hockley,
 Jenkins, Jones-J, King, LeVay, Malham, McCarthy, McDonald-M, Markesteijn*, Pullin,
 Richardson*, Rosa*, Sinclair, Skov, St.John*, Turner-J, Waggitt*, Warren-Thomas*, Valbuena*,
 Willcock*, Williams-A, Williams-G*)

 Bangor has an exceptionally integrated portfolio of research, built on the first three themes, that
 links the fundamental ecology of natural systems with their conservation and sustainable use,
 right through the value chain to food (both marine and terrestrial) and forest products.

 Ecological science has been an internationally recognised strength at Bangor for more than 70
 years, including a strong University-UKCEH partnership, reinvigorated through seven recent

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 appointments (section 2). One of the largest applications of Bangor’s ecological science has
 been in forest and shrubland ecosystems, particularly in understanding current and future
 impacts of climate change. In temperate systems, ecophysiological research has led to new
 discoveries on the impacts of elevated CO2 on leaf gas exchange (Smith.2016 Global Change
 Biology) while in tropical rainforests major discoveries have been made showing the impact of
 land cover change on carbon emissions (Healey.2020 Global Change Biology), thermal
 sensitivity (Willcock.2020 Science) and asynchronous carbon sink saturation in African and
 Amazonian forests (Willcock.2020 Nature). Another area of strength is in the integration of
 biogeography and ocean/landscape ecology modelling. This has provided fundamental
 advances in the evidence base for conservation (Hiddink.2019 Nature Climate Change;
 McDonald-M.2016 Science; Cameron.2019 PNAS; Rosa.2016 Current Biology).

 In marine and coastal environments notable new discoveries have been made about the major
 ecological impacts of prey-size plastics (Williams-G.2019 PNAS) and night-time lighting
 (Davies-T,Jenkins.2015 Biology Letters). Strategic investment in the Reef Systems research
 group has advanced understanding of coral reef productivity and dynamics over local and
 latitudinal gradients, distinguishing natural variation in microbial (Williams-G.2016 Nature
 Communications), benthic (Williams-G.2018 Current Biology) and fish communities
 (Heenan,Williams-G.2016 Proceedings Royal Society-B) from human-induced change. The
 group link ecological theory with conservation solutions, including the implications of bleaching
 for fish assemblages (Richardson.2018 Global Change Biology).

 In Conservation and Forest Policy Jones-J (new director NRN-LCEE) provides international
 leadership. The group has achieved major advances in understanding human impacts of
 conservation policies including payment for ecosystem services (Jones-J.2020 Nature
 Communications; Hockley,Gibbons,Jones-J.2016 Global Environmental Change) and oil palm
 certification (St.John.2020 Nature Sustainability). St.John is also advancing fundamental
 understanding of human-wildlife conservation conflict (St.John.2018 Nature Communications)
 and Warren-Thomas (NERC-IIASA Collaborative Research Fellow) has provided a critical
 assessment of the effectiveness of carbon payments for protecting tropical forest (Warren-
 Thomas.2018 Nature Comms).

 Research into sustainable food production spans marine and terrestrial. The Sustainable
 Fisheries and Aquaculture research group is delivering globally important outputs with impact
 (e.g. Hiddink’s global syntheses of fishing effects on seabed ecosystems (Hiddink.2017 PNAS)
 provides underpinning for his impact case study (ICS) on Sustainable fisheries). Aquaculture
 research at Bangor has a long-held focus on sustainability; several industrial, regulatory and
 UKRI projects with links to the Microbiology, Biogeochemistry and Biotechnology research
 theme have led to critical understanding of catchment-level impacts on safety of shellfish stocks
 (ICS on viral pathogens). Chadwick plays a leading role in major national (e.g. Rothamsted
 Research) and international (e.g. Chinese Academy of Sciences) collaborations in agricultural
 systems determining nitrous oxide emissions (Chadwick.2018 Science Total Environment)
 leading to the ICS on UK greenhouse gas inventory. The award of a series of major UKRI and
 EU grants has led to important insights into high-yield farming emissions (Chadwick.2016
 Nature Climate Change), complemented by new modelling evidence of the benefits of
 diversification (Gibbons.2019 Environment International).

 Investment in priority research areas
 Within and across the four research themes we have made strategic decisions to develop
 priority foci through investment in facilities and staffing. Molecular Ecology, Biotechnology,
 Marine Resources, Conservation and the intersect between Animal Physiology and
 Behaviour have been grown over the REF2021 period in staffing (23 new Category-A, section
 2) and infrastructure (GPB25,400,000 for 5 new capacity-building/delivery research centres,
 section 3) through investment of internal and external resources. These areas now provide the
 focus for our challenge over the coming REF period to both maintain national and international
 leadership, and meet the demands of a radically changing research landscape, by providing the
 centre of attraction for high calibre staff and funding. In addition, a sixth strategic focus for

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 investment is Aquatic Pollution where we will coalesce our expertise in microbiology and
 biotechnology to address real world challenges of plastic and virus contamination of the
 environment to achieve societal benefit aligned with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals.
 Recent establishment of Bangor’s new Plastic Research Centre of Wales will be a major focal
 point of this work.


 1.3 Achievement of impact arising from research

 Our Impact Strategy set out in REF 2014 was to increase the utility and accessibility of our
 science to provide the evidence to better inform decision making across the environmental
 sector. We appointed both College- and School-level Directors of Impact and Engagement in
 2015, and prioritised the development of external partnerships with Government and
 Intergovernmental agencies (e.g. UN-FAO, UNEP), environmental NGOs (e.g. Conservation
 International, the Nature Conservancy (TNC)), industry, local/national land users/advisors (e.g.
 Woodland Trust) and the general public. The achievement of impact has become embedded
 within our staff’s research philosophy, a significant driver for which has been Bangor’s global
 leading expertise in the application of systematic review through Pullin’s major role (founder
 and current Chief Executive) in the Collaboration for Environmental Evidence and leadership of
 the Centre for Evidence Based Conservation at Bangor.

 We prioritise early engagement with users and stakeholders to explore and understand their
 needs. Many of our longstanding partnerships with overseas NGOs (e.g. LI-BIRD, Nepal) and
 overseas government departments have been active for sufficient time to have changed
 government policy. This is demonstrated by the Global rice breeding ICS and Turner’s work in
 the Cayman Islands, which has led to their Government expanding the area of no-take MPA
 protection from 14% to 45% of coastal waters, demonstrating best practice in the Caribbean
 region. The Centre for Applied Marine Sciences (CAMS) is an excellent example of our proactive
 approach to interfacing with end-users (e.g. Minesto, Stena, Shellfish Association GB, and over
 100 other companies), delivering on technology transfer and economic development through
 over 40 externally funded staff. Major funded projects (see section 3) are based on collaborative
 research with fisheries (contributing to both the Viral pathogens and Sustainable fisheries ICS’s),
 marine renewables and aquarium sectors.

 The self-funded Biocomposites Centre (BC), which focuses on biomaterials and biorefining, is
 based on a similar approach through direct collaboration with large multinationals, SMEs, micro
 businesses and research institutes. We have supported industrial implementation of biorefineries
 and development of a biorefinery-based economy through the BEACON development and
 knowledge exchange programme (GBP5,700,000 to Bangor during this REF period). BC has
 demonstrated the effectiveness of impact-centred contract research embedded within academic
 structures, leading to numerous success stories including research on non-toxic wood
 preservation leading to major commercial investment in a new timber modification enterprise
 (Lignia Ltd). Innovate UK funding has been secured to develop the world’s first Medium-density
 fibreboard recovery system. BC’s research-to-impact expertise has led to collaboration with over
 100 SME’s, created 35 new jobs and directly informed government bioeconomic strategy.
 Current industry-collaborative research on synthesis of chemical intermediates for the
 pharmaceutical, animal healthcare and agrochemical sectors, and development of wool as
 insulating medical packaging have high commercialisation potential.

 Our flexible research structure outlined above enables an agile approach to opportunities
 identified by end-user partners. This model is exemplified by the NERC-funded VIRAQUA
 projects (includes staff across 3 research themes), which provided the basis for our rapid
 response to the national priority of research to improve COVID-19 monitoring as featured in the
 Environmental virus monitoring ICS.




                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.4 Progress toward an open research environment

 Bangor has made significant progress in developing an open research environment, going well
 beyond the REF requirements. Our approach, which follows the Concordat on Open Research
 Data, has become embedded in our research philosophy through the Research Committees,
 through staff development activities at University, College and School levels and through
 individual projects/staff disseminating best practice.

 IMARDIS (The Integrated Marine Data and Information System ~GBP1,500,000-2,000,000) is an
 example of best practice developed in response to the recognition that marine industries in
 Wales were limited by lack of timely access to relevant data. It provides a single point of access
 to data, products and services derived from the collaborative research carried out between
 Welsh industries and Bangor University. IMARDIS adopts established UK metadata standards
 and is INSPIRE compliant, ensuring data are harmonised with existing UK (e.g. NERC Data
 Archive Centres) and European (e.g. EMODNet) data infrastructures.

 A wider benefit of IMARDIS is in spreading a data-sharing culture and prompting a step change
 in adoption of best data management practice, demonstrated by numerous examples across the
 College. For example, the Benthic Impacts Tool (BIT), a decision-support tool to quantify the
 impact of bottom-towed fishing activity (featured in the Sustainable fisheries ICS), is freely
 available through the JNCC website. Further, numerous staff use GitHub to host full open-
 source code. The datasets on which much of our science rests are publicly available through a
 variety of platforms including Dryad Digital Repository, the British Oceanographic Data Centre,
 the National Center for Biotechnology Bioinformation and the European Nucleotide Archive.


 1.5 Support of a culture of research integrity

 Bangor University is committed to the highest standards and complies with the Concordat to
 Support Research Integrity. We have a vibrant College Research Ethics committee (with
 representatives from across disciplines and career stages) with responsibility for ensuring that
 ethical issues raised by our research are properly considered and addressed from the project
 design stage. The committee provides training on research integrity and ethics (annually for
 PhD, MSc and BSc researchers). We also hold research ethics seminars where issues are
 shared and discussed among researchers. The committee is responsible for reviewing research
 conducted in the College to ensure that the dignity, rights and welfare of human participants are
 upheld. Animal welfare in research is monitored by a separate body.


 2. People


 2.1 Staff

 Staffing strategy
 We have a dynamic, collegiate and supportive working environment that values staff at all
 stages of their careers. There are 83 Category A staff in UoA7, of whom 73 conduct teaching
 and research (13 Lecturer, 22 Senior Lecturer, 11 Reader and 27 at Professor grade), with 10
 others on research-only contracts. We attract and retain staff operating at the highest
 international levels; for example, 10 staff are listed in the top 130,000 researchers globally
 based on 23-years of Scopus data with self-citations excluded.

 Academic Appointments
 Over this REF period, the appointment of 23 new Category-A staff (35% female; 7 Fellows; 13
 Lecturers, 1 Senior Lecturer, and 2 Professors) with excellent research profiles has added to
 the vitality of research in this UoA. To enable the development of staff research, we enact a
 policy that all Teaching and Research academic appointments (except short-term cover) are

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 permanent positions. We continue to attract international talent from the EU and further afield (to
 >40% of these posts). We have also attracted Research Fellows with independent funding (66%
 of whom are female), with particular support for those leading to permanent academic
 appointments, including BBSRC Future Leader Fellowship (Ellison), Leverhulme Trust Early
 Career Fellowships (e.g. Crandell), Marie Skłodowska-Curie COFUND Fellows (e.g. Heenan,
 Markesteijn, Foote), and to Individual Fellowships (e.g. NERC/IASA, Warren-Thomas).

 Strategic appointments to enhance capacity in the priority research areas outlined above,
 particularly relating to UKRI’s professional skills needs in the environment sector have been
 demonstrably successful:

 Growing strength in the field of Conservation has been enhanced through 5 new appointments,
 particularly targeted at increasing social science research capacity. These include: St John
 (whose work on conservation social science subsequently won an ERC starting grant) and
 Willcock (who quickly gained two interdisciplinary grants from the ESRC on ecosystem
 services) and two others submitted to UoA21 (Sociology). To achieve our strategy of
 establishing technical strength in the physical assessment of threatened habitats, in 2018 we
 appointed Rosa, who links remote sensing with modelling spatial data, and Valbuena, who
 models LiDAR data to quantify ecosystem structure and biomass stocks. These appointments
 were immediately successful, e.g. Rosa recently won a H2020 award and generated the
 successful fellowship of Warren-Thomas) and Valbuena was awarded an International Union of
 Forest Research Organisations Outstanding Doctoral Research Award in 2019.

 In developing strength in Marine Resources, we prioritised appointment of physical-science
 staff to underpin both biological resources (fisheries and aquaculture) and renewable energy.
 Lenn, an expert in observational oceanography and remote sensing, moved from a NERC
 Independent Fellowship to a lecturing position in 2015 (lead of NERC Changing Arctic Oceans
 project 2019-2021 and co-I on NERC ArctiCONNECT project 2020-2023); Robins was
 appointed Lecturer in 2017 (lead of NERC UK Climate Resilience project 2020-22) and through
 expertise in shelf sea modelling provides important linkage with UoA12 (Engineering) where our
 marine renewable energy staff are submitted. This energy focus is extended by the appointment
 of Waggitt and Cordes, with expertise in top-predator interactions with tidal energy structures.
 Williams-G (appointed in 2015) has brought international excellence (e.g. 4 Nature-family
 journal papers, 6 Philosophical Transactions/Proceedings Royal Society, 3 PNAS, since 2014)
 and reinvigorated the reef systems group.

 Our strategic focus on Biotechnology led to the establishment of CEB in 2017. Appointment of
 the senior academic Yakunin in 2018 cemented our expertise in enzyme discovery and
 extended it to protein biochemistry and biotechnology applications. This appointment facilitated
 CEB’s access to new grants (NERC, ERA CobioTech, Capacity Building Acceleration Award)
 and expanded collaboration with industrial partners (e.g. Bayer, ALMAC, Evonik) in biocatalysis,
 plastics recycling and food processing.

 Our position as a leader in Molecular Ecology across diverse systems has been enhanced
 since 2014 through investment in 3 new positions adding applications in molecular parasitology
 (Ellison) and invasive species genetics (Comeault). Papadopulos, appointed in 2017, is a
 leader in integration of genetics, genomics and ecological analyses/experiments, and brought
 immediate success with 2 NERC grants totalling almost GBP1,000,000.

 We have further strengthened capacity linking Animal Behaviour to Physiology through 4 new
 appointments including Georgiev (Director of the Zanzibar Red Colobus Project) and Holland,
 who has established himself as a leading international researcher in animal navigation
 (promoted to Professor in 2020) with a focus on cognitive processes and sensory mechanisms
 leading to a series of high profile papers. Crandell brings innovative research on animal
 movement through application of engineering principles, while Shannon is a leading researcher
 on behavioural effects of anthropogenic noise.


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Supporting staff to develop their research careers
 The central pillar of staff development is performance development review (PDR). All staff meet
 a senior colleague annually to review achievements, discuss plans and remove constraints. This
 feeds into school-level assessment of workload allocations (agreed in consultation with staff).
 Furthermore, mentoring is now embedded within the culture of CoESE: our academics take
 advantage of the College and University schemes, and we actively mentor individual research
 projects and publications (e.g. via a formal, College-led mentoring system for staff developing all
 UKRI grants).

 Supporting staff in the establishment and maintenance of external networks through conference
 presentations, workshop attendance and other activities is a high priority. The school research
 committees administer funds to support staff in external activities (totalling over GBP60,000 per
 year), including those targeted at research grant acquisition or outputs/impact; more than 85% of
 applications were funded. We support applications for sabbaticals every 5-6 years, recognising
 their importance for research career development. The many successful examples include:
 Jenkins’ 9 months in Brazil developing regional and national contacts, which led to a number of
 successful UK-Brazil collaborative grants and promotion to Professor; Jones-D at University
 Western Australia, which forged ongoing collaboration in cutting-edge NanoSIMS technology
 and Jones-J at the Cambridge Conservation Initiative (yielding a series of high profile
 collaborations) and International Union for Conservation of Nature (generating international
 research impact).

 Support for new and early-career staff is an important strategic component of staff development.
 We prioritize projects proposed by Early-Career Researchers (ECR’s) in selection for Doctoral
 Training Programmes (DTP), e.g. in the NERC-funded Envision DTP, 3 of the 8 projects
 selected in each round by Bangor are ring-fenced for ECRs.

 We also support ECR’s (e.g. Rosa) to apply for a place on the Welsh Crucible, a pan-Wales
 Higher Education Funding Council for Wales/university-funded programme, to develop their
 research innovation, interdisciplinarity and impact. UoA7 staff are integral to University-level
 career development initiatives targeting ECR’s, e.g. through the University’s Researchers
 Development & Concordat group (Willcock) and Research Leadership programme. The latter
 was developed in 2018 by a team including Jenkins and Thomas to provide training, mentoring
 and support in research career development: 8 (5 male, 3 female) of our staff have participated
 in the past 2 years.

 All of this has contributed to Bangor’s success in the European Commission “HR
 Excellence in Research” award, which we have held since 2012 (renewed every 2 years
 with external review every 4 years). Success in staff development is evidenced by 46
 promotions (89% promoted due to ‘Research Excellence’) that include 1 Research Fellow, 3
 Senior Research Fellows, 3 Lecturers, 5 Senior Lecturers, 11 Readers and 13 Professors. This
 is a >30% increase in promotions over the previous REF period.


 2.2 Research students

 Recruitment and funding
 We have substantial investment from diverse national and international sources in PGR training
 since 2014, including by UKRI (44 studentships), EU (32), Government departments, charities
 and industry, contributing to 246 post-graduate research students recruited to UoA7 (2014-
 2019). Bangor co-leads (Jones-D and Chadwick) the joint NERC/BBSRC-funded
 (GBP3,300,000) STARS Centre for Doctoral Training in soil science (2015-2022), a consortium
 of 8 universities (Bangor, Cranfield, Edinburgh, Kent, Lancaster, Nottingham, Sheffield and
 Southampton) and 4 research institutes (British Antarctic Survey, British Geological Survey
 (BGS) and Met Office). We were also awarded the second round of NERC funding for the
 Envision DTP (total value GBP10,000,000, 2019-2027; increased from GBP6,500,000, 2014-
 2022; Bangor PI Healey), which brings together 3 universities and 3 research institutes with

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 industry and NGO partners to train a new generation of environmental scientists, funding 5 PhDs
 per annum to Bangor on average. Envision has funded joint PhD studentships across Bangor
 schools and with our partners at Lancaster and Nottingham Universities, BGS, UKCEH and
 Rothamsted Research. These doctoral training schemes also support global research
 collaborations facilitated by internships, exchanges and fieldwork opportunities with Case
 partners in both government (e.g. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA),
 Welsh Government) and non-government (e.g. The Nature Conservancy) organisations.

 Bangor also leads the Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships [KESS] scheme (European
 Social Fund), which funds PGR scholarships for collaborative research between Welsh
 universities and industry. KESS 1 (2009-2015, GBP31,500,000) funded 14 PhDs and 19
 Research Masters to UoA7 in Bangor, while KESS 2 West Wales (2015-2023, GBP40,400,000)
 and the recently awarded KESS 2 East Wales (2019-2023, GBP16,000,000) deliver another 54
 PhDs and 6 Research Masters to UoA7. In addition, we were partners in FONASO Erasmus
 Mundus (2010-2016; GBP5,800,000) Joint Doctorate Programme “Forests and Nature for
 Society” and continue to attract excellent students on government-funded scholarships from
 around the world including Nigeria, China and Turkey.

 At the census date we had 177 PGR students across UoA7, with an increase of 23% in numbers
 of PhDs awarded per FTE per year since REF2014 (when calculated on the equivalent basis of
 the Category A FTE submitted to UoA7 in REF2021).

 PGR training and support
 We firmly believe that research students perform best when fully supported. Bangor University’s
 Doctoral School is responsible for the University-wide policies and practices that underpin
 research degrees, and provides a comprehensive training and development programme
 incorporating key concepts from the Researcher Development Framework. For example, the
 University offers a PGCertHE aimed at PGR students that provides key skills for future academic
 careers. In line with the QAA Quality Code, the Doctoral School provides training on supervision
 and examining for research supervisors, which is obligatory for probationary staff, and for all
 staff intending to supervise UKRI and KESS-funded studentships (52 UoA7 staff have
 undertaken supervisor training in this REF period). A team-based approach to PhD
 supervision is mandatory to ensure early-career supervisors are mentored by more experienced
 staff.

 We have continued to improve the training and support available to PGR students, formalising
 and standardising procedures through the CoESE Postgraduate Research Committee led by
 Hockley. All students have at least two supervisors and a committee consisting of an internal
 examiner (an expert in their field) and a Chair (a senior member of staff). The Chair also acts as
 the student’s personal tutor providing a backstop of pastoral support. PGRs also have full
 access to student advice and counselling services.

 Following University and College guidelines, all PGRs receive inductions at university and
 college levels (held 3-times per year) as well as targeted refreshers for 2nd and 3rd years. A
 training needs assessment is completed by new students in conjunction with their supervisor,
 and regularly updated. Skills training is offered at school, college and university (Doctoral
 School) level. These cover generic skills (e.g. research integrity, ethics procedures), and provide
 a range of specialist courses (e.g. Python programming, GIS, systematic reviews, data
 visualisation, social science methods). Training is also delivered via Envision DTP, STARS CDT
 and KESS programmes (e.g. Envision programmes include Research Skills and Techniques
 delivered by Lancaster University, Careers Advice from UKCEH, Geoscience Modelling from
 BGS, and many others). Each year, PGRs present their research plans/results to an audience of
 staff and peers. The schools also provide support to attend external training, and to supplement
 PhD Scholarships (e.g. Drapers’ Company and Sir William Roberts) where a shortfall between a
 scholarship bequest and UKRI standard rates exists. This has enabled disadvantaged students
 to conduct fieldwork across Wales, as well as attend key conferences and Women in Science
 training events.

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Our goal, through skills development, is to foster the next generation of environmental scientists,
 not solely for academia but also for industry. For example, we run the STARS CDT Professional
 Internships for PhD Students (PIPS), a one-month placement with industry, government (e.g.
 Defra, Welsh Government) or research organisations (e.g. RBG Kew). This is supported by
 annual industry-focused career workshops and fairs. STARS and Envision also funded UK
 National Productivity Investment Fund placements aligned to the UK’s industrial strategy.
 Via KESS 1, Bangor completed 73 PhD and 84 Research Masters projects across Wales,
 all linked with local company partners. KESS 2 has continued in similar fashion and will
 partner over 500 businesses with academics and postgraduate research students.

 Monitoring and outcomes
 Students meet their supervisors frequently but at least one meeting per month must be logged in
 the student’s online record. We also have dedicated support staff who focus entirely on college
 PGR matters (1.5 FTE).

 Students meet their committee at least annually for a formal progress review. The review
 ensures students have access to the resources/training they need and monitors progress, as
 well as giving feedback on plans as they develop, and checks how the supervisory relationship
 is functioning.

 PGR representatives meet regularly with academic PGR leads (3 in this UoA covering different
 subject areas) and help foster a healthy working environment. We also actively use the
 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES). Overall satisfaction is very high with the
 two schools scoring consistently at or above the sector and Russell group benchmarks.
 The average overall satisfaction 2017-2020 (weighted by response rates across schools)
 was 85%, above the Russell Group benchmark of 82%. Each year staff and PGR
 representatives meet to review the PRES feedback and draw up an action plan to address
 issues raised. These actions earned us a high commendation for the Doctoral School in
 the 2018 university QAA audit.


 2.3. Commitment to equality and diversity

 We value the talents and skills of all staff and seek to ensure the working environment, and
 opportunities for career progression, are fully inclusive. Bangor University won the ‘Employer
 of the Year’ (public sector) category in the Chwarae Teg ‘Womenspire’ awards in 2016.
 Both Schools are fully committed to the Athena SWAN charter. SOS was awarded bronze in
 2018 while SNS, as a new academic unit, submitted an application in April 2020. The former
 School of Environment, Natural Resources and Geography (which comprises a large proportion
 of SNS) gained bronze in 2016. The University-level Athena SWAN working group is chaired by
 McDonald-M, four SOS staff have been members and that School has ambitious action plans in
 place for progression to Silver.

 Across the staff submitted to UOA7, 27% (and 16% of Readers or Professors) are women,
 levels that partly reflect national challenges with diversity in STEM subjects. That said, the Dean
 of College (McDonald-M), Head of SNS (Whiteley) and Director of NRN-LCEE (Jones-J) are
 all women, and women occupy other key research leadership roles in both schools (e.g.
 Fenner and Cordes: respective School Directors of PGR), ensuring visibility and
 representation both internally and externally. Also, indicating trajectory, women comprise 53% of
 current PGRs, 36% of new hires and 25% of promotions to professor or reader since 2014. Four
 UoA7 PGRs have been awarded Women in Science/Equality & Diversity scholarships. We strive
 to improve gender balance through enhancing recruitment and promotion processes. Since 2014
 all staff chairing recruitment panels must have completed training on Unconscious Bias (new
 module recently rolled out for all staff) and all interview panels have at least one female member.
 The University’s online Equality training is mandatory for all staff.


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We promote staff uptake of University flexible working policies to balance caring responsibilities
 and career progression. Currently more men than women take up part-time working, reflecting
 an environment where this is not seen as disadvantaging one’s career. We support staff taking
 parental/adoption leave; maternity pay is available from the first day of employment and pre- and
 post-maternity support is offered to improve retention of staff returning from parental leave. Staff
 on parental leave are properly covered, to avoid parental-leave guilt, and have a reduced
 teaching load on return to work. Staff in UoA7 (Cameron) and the College/School Women’s
 Network, established in 2015, were key in establishing these university-wide policies. Female
 staff took advantage of NRN-LCEE’s ‘returners’ fellowships for staff returning from long-term
 absence for maternity/paternity, adoption, health or caring (e.g. Van Landeghem 2016-2018 to
 support her work on marine sediment mobility) and proposal writing fellowships for staff out of
 contract (e.g. Hold who used this to gain GBP1,500,000 from the European Maritime and
 Fisheries Fund).

 Leadership is provided by College and School/Centre Equality Champions (e.g. Spear). College
 staff are active in the increasingly influential University LGBT+ Network. Support is provided to
 meet needs identified by Equality and Diversity self-assessment teams. The full range of
 Equality and Diversity criteria are important in the conduct of PDR and linked staff training, the
 sensitive PGR allocation to offices, timing of meetings and seminars in core business hours,
 unisex nappy-changing facilities, communal staff/student eating and recreation facilities, and
 provision of funding for staff and PGR development needs (including conference attendance)
 and for diverse external seminar speakers (e.g. 40% female 2016-2019 in SNS). We have
 achieved a marked increase in prominence of Bangor female staff and PGRs in online material
 and events, including a notably enhanced profile of International Women’s Day.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research funding and strategies for generating research income

 UoA7 research income averaged GBP10,600,000 per annum during 2013-2019
 (GBP74,000,000 total) compared with GBP8,000,000 per annum for RAE2014, an increase
 of 33% (income is quoted throughout section 3 as the amount awarded by the funder to
 Bangor).

 Our strategy remains to target prestigious UKRI funding in addition to other government, EU,
 charity and industry/private sources to ensure research vitality and sustainability. Total research
 income from UKRI was GBP16,900,000, including GBP10,600,000 from NERC, GBP4,500,000
 from BBSRC, GBP1,200,000 from EPSRC, and GBP330,000 from ESRC. Active mentoring has
 resulted in over half of academic appointees since 2014 (majority were ECRs) securing UKRI
 funding. Funding from both EU (GBP36,000,000) and Welsh and UK governments
 (GBP12,900,000) has been significant, and targeted predominantly at enhancing research
 infrastructure and capacity-building (expanded on in section 3.2), while trusts, charities and
 foundations have contributed GBP3,400,000.

 The diverse sources of research income cover the breadth of our environmental science
 programme, across staff at all career stages, but focused in particular on our 6 priority
 research areas: Marine Resources, Aquatic Pollution, Biotechnology, Molecular Ecology,
 Conservation, Animal Physiology and Behaviour.

 Our focus on Marine Resources has led to notable UKRI success, supporting fundamental
 science. The physical oceanography group continue to achieve significant funding to provide the
 physical context to biological processes (e.g. NERC, PEANUTS, Lenn, 2018-2021,
 GBP216,000: establishing the role of escalating nutrient fluxes in driving productivity in the Arctic
 Ocean) and to improve predictive models of weather and climate through advances in
 understanding mixing in shelf seas (e.g. NERC, PcynMix, Rippeth, 2014-2017, GBP222,000).
 Understanding the physical basis of ecosystem-scale change feeds through to research at

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 national and global scales in fisheries (e.g. NERC, IMMERSE, Hiddink, 2014-2018,
 GBP622,000). Fundamental research into tides including their role in global change (NERC,
 MATCH, Green, 2019-2022, GBP593,000) also underpins more applied projects including our
 focus on tidal energy such as that led by Austin (EPSRC, 2017-2019, GBP145,000) on
 developing hydrodynamic metrics for parameterisation of turbulent flow in tidal races.

 We have built on UKRI-funded research in Marine Resources by using EU funds to develop
 capacity and impact. Key examples are large Ireland-Wales INTERREG consortium projects on
 resilient blue growth in fisheries and aquaculture (Bluefish, Malham, 2014-2020, GBP1,100,000)
 and climate adaptation through ecologically sensitive coastal infrastructure (ECOSTRUCTURE,
 Jenkins 2017-2022, GBP729,000). Competitive European Regional Development Fund (ERDF)
 funding was secured to extend our strategic focus on marine renewable energy through
 establishment of the Smart Efficient Energy Centre (SEEC) linking UoA12 and UoA7 (CoI’s
 Ormondroyd, Healey, 2019-2022, GBP4,600,000) and the SEACAMS 2 project (Le Vay, King,
 2015-2022, GBP9,800,000) (expanded in section 3.2). This development of a leading centre in
 marine renewable energy is strategically linked to energy research in other areas including the
 use of integrated, smart and low-carbon energy for distributing water resources (Dŵr Uisce,
 Williams-A, 2016-2021, GBP872,000) and development of eco-building materials that address
 poor air quality, while also radically improving energy efficiency (ECO-SEE, Ormondroyd, 2013-
 2019, GBP610,000).

 In other priority research areas including Aquatic Pollution, Molecular Ecology,
 Biotechnology and Conservation we have taken advantage of UKRI’s increasing focus on
 funding impactful science to support research that extends from fundamental discovery science
 through to applied projects with real-world environmental impact.

 This approach is demonstrated in our recent strategic focus on Aquatic Pollution where we
 have built the interdisciplinary expertise and research infrastructure to develop this global priority
 research area over coming years. UKRI funding has enabled us to study the origin and fate of
 human pathogenic viruses in the freshwater-marine continuum (NERC, VIRAQUA, Jones-D,
 2015-2018, GBP361,000) leading to significant development of COVID-19 incidence monitoring
 methods from wastewater both nationally (NERC Urgency, VIRAQUA II, N-WESP, Jones-D,
 2020-2021, GBP300,000) and in Africa (EPSRC GCRF, Co-surveillance of Waste-water,
 Malham, 2020-2022, GBP324,000). Fundamental advances in understanding the survival,
 persistence and ecology of microbial communities in the ‘Plastisphere’ (NERC Highlight Topic,
 Golyshin, 2019-2023, GBP489,000) underpin practical actions including Jones-D’s recent
 success in the NERC GCRF Programme on Reducing the Impacts of Plastic Waste in
 Developing Countries (Agricultural microplastics-food security, 2021-2025, GBP2,490,000) with
 collaborators in Asia and Africa, and Bangor’s lead on the NERC/NRF (Singapore) SE Asia
 Plastics project (CoI’s Robins, Hiddink, Skov, Reduction, control and mitigation of marine
 plastic pollution, 2020-2023, GBP708,000).

 In Biotechnology the practical applications of different fundamental processes have been
 primarily funded through BBSRC including developing novel metagenomic biocatalyst collections
 for industrial use (BBSRC, MetaCat, Golyshin, 2015-2018, GBP335,000) and economic
 technology to support novel herbicide production (BBSRC, BAW, Tverezovskiy, 2014-2020,
 GBP240,000). EU funding has been used to build capacity to develop innovative screening
 methods for industrial application of marine enzymes (INMARE, Golyshin, 2015-2021,
 GBP543,000), obtain novel functional proteins from crops (Pro-Enrich, Charlton, 2018-2021,
 GBP401,000) and extract metals from deep ore deposits (BioMOre, Johnson, 2015-2018,
 GBP302,000).

 UKRI and the Leverhulme Trust support leading international research in Molecular Ecology.
 Research into eDNA over this REF period has progressed from basic research into the
 mechanistic basis of the technique, through to the development of applied tools. This is
 exemplified by Creer’s work on the ecology of airborne pollen diversity and implications for
 human health (NERC, PollerGEN, Creer, 2016-2019, GBP405,000) plus the ecological

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 relevance of eDNA in freshwater lotic ecosystems (NERC Highlight Topic, LOFRESH, Creer,
 2015-2020, GBP532,000). Other successful use of cutting-edge molecular tools supported by
 UKRI includes forecasting potential biodiversity losses from ecological and evolutionary patterns
 and processes (NERC, Papadopulos, 2018-2021, GBP298,000) and engineering tree
 microbiomes for disease suppression (BBSRC, FutureOak, McDonald-J, 2020-2023,
 GBP931,000). Complementary Leverhulme Trust support for Molecular Ecology has been
 important in funding ambitious and innovative research on the evolution of new sympatric
 species (Turner-G, 2014-2018, GBP204,000) and mapping of novel model species’ genomes
 (Mulley, 2016-2019, GBP182,000).

 In natural resources and Conservation we have utilised UKRI funding to develop tools for
 science end-users, e.g. for soil nitrogen status (BBSRC, Jones-D, 2017-2020, GBP317,000),
 N2O emissions (NERC, Upland-N20, Chadwick, 2015-2019, GBP458,000) and ecosystem
 services via mobile phones (ESRC, MobilES, Willcock, 2018-2021, GBP219,000). Our global
 strength in Conservation is also supported through private trusts. The Bertarelli Foundation
 have supported Turner-J’s research in the Chagos archipelago (2018-2022, GBP999,000) to
 determine whether marine protected areas increase ecosystem resilience to climate change.
 The Leverhulme Trust funded interdisciplinary social/natural science research led by Jones-J to
 determine if payments for ecosystem services can deliver both environmental and livelihood
 benefits (2015-2019, GBP249,000). This builds on her NERC/ESRC-funded research (including
 two 2014-2017 Ecosystem Services for Poverty Alleviation Fellowships) that led to the impact
 case study on the Social impacts of different models of conservation as experienced by local
 communities. In applied natural resources research, Chadwick has gained EU funding to
 strengthen capacity to identify emission hot-spots in dairy pastures (Target-N2O, 2018-2021,
 GBP210,000) and develop new bio-based fertilisers from organic waste upcycling (FertiCycle,
 2020-2023, GBP217,000).

 Looking ahead, to develop our priority research areas a central strategy is to promote and
 support high-achieving Early Career Researchers. This includes an ERC Starter Grant to
 St.John to resolve the links between poverty and rule-breaking in conservation (WILDPOV,
 2018-2023, GBP1,100,000) and 10 Marie Skłodowska-Curie postdoctoral research fellowships,
 including research on the natural and human drivers of tropical reef fish communities
 (FISHSCALE, Richardson, 2019-2021, GBP167,000) and characterisation of microbial
 communities inhabiting subterranean acidic mine environments (PARMIN, PI- Johnson,
 GBP167,000). This funding for ECRs has been complemented by Welsh Government support
 through the COFUND-EU Marie Skłodowska-Curie scheme (e.g., Foote and Markesteijn in
 SNS, and Heenan and Richardson in SOS).


 3.2 Infrastructure supporting research and impact

 Our strategic investment in core organisational, specialist, operational and scholarly
 infrastructure and facilities is the basis for increasing research vitality and sustainability
 across our research themes and priority areas. Since 2014, we invested heavily in
 improving this infrastructure through funding of five major research centres
 (GPB25,400,000) – detailed below.

 New infrastructure developed using ERDF funding has enhanced capability in Biotechnology
 through the new Centre for Environmental Biotechnology (CEB) (Golyshin, 2017-2022,
 GBP5,000,000), including research into mining the biosphere for novel enzymes and
 biomolecules of industrial biotechnological relevance, and promoting green growth through the
 innovative use of natural resources. Other notable investment includes the new Smart Efficient
 Energy Centre (SEEC) that links UoA12 and UoA7 (CoI’s Ormondroyd, Healey, 2019-2022,
 GBP4,600,000) and the Biorefining Centre of Excellence (BEACON+ and East) (Charlton,
 2015-2022, GBP3,200,000). SEEC is a major strategic investment for the University in
 interdisciplinary research spanning environmental science and engineering. It links three low-
 carbon energy sectors (ocean, nuclear and energy-efficient structures) to its big-data cyber-

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 infrastructure hub. Importantly, SEEC is targeting long-term capture of new research funding by
 transforming capacity to model decadal data sets across the marine energy sector. These
 methods will then be applied to sensor networks in either building structures or nuclear facilities
 to establish a major strategic contribution to energy sustainability.

 ERDF funds have also advanced research within Research Theme 4, in particular in Marine
 Resources through the creation of the Shellfish Centre (Le Vay, 2018-2021, GBP2,800,000)
 and SEACAMS 2 (Le Vay, 2015-2022 GBP9,800,000). The Shellfish Centre has facilitated new
 partnerships with businesses across the UK shellfish sector, for example Fowey Shellfish,
 Deepdock Ltd and Tethys Oysters Ltd, to develop existing and new/underexploited
 shellfisheries, aquaculture and related supply chains. SEACAMS2 is a partnership project
 between Bangor and Swansea Universities to develop economic opportunities in Low Carbon,
 Energy and Environment in Wales through commercial application of research and innovation in
 marine renewable energy, climate change resilience and resource efficiency. SEACAMS2
 supported research has resulted in two ICS’s across disciplines: Marine renewable energy
 (UoA12, Neill) and Sustainable fisheries (UoA7, Hiddink).

 Success of investments in new infrastructure has benefited from continued investment in
 existing core infrastructure. For example, on our Menai Bridge site, the Marine Centre Wales
 (MCW), which houses the Centre for Applied Marine Sciences (CAMS), has been an integral
 part of the new SEEC, Shellfish Centre and SEACAMS2. MCW is a national resource designed
 to integrate research, innovation, commerce and policy in the marine sector. MCW houses ~50
 research staff and academics across Research Theme 1 (Earth Systems) and Theme 4 (Natural
 Resources) providing them with conference facilities, well-equipped laboratories and aquaria.
 Since its opening, MCW has provided hot-desking and workshops/conferences to support over
 100 companies/external organisations, including industry (BAE Systems, Horizon Nuclear
 Power, Global Aquaculture Alliance, Milford Haven Port Authority), government (Natural
 Resources Wales, Irish Embassy) and regulators (Food Standards Agency, Public Health
 Wales). This innovative approach to partner co-working has stimulated over 60 collaborative
 research projects (value >GBP20,000,000).

 Complimenting MCW, on the SNS site, is Environment Centre Wales (ECW), a partnership
 between Bangor and UKCEH. This facility has benefitted from continued investment through this
 REF period and provides a unique and sustainable research environment for over 100 scientists
 ranging from Professors to MSc students. Shared spaces foster interactions with key research
 partners and end users including Natural Resources Wales and Forest Research (whose Welsh
 base we have recruited to ECW since 2014 through our strategy to develop Bangor as a hub for
 forestry research). Co-location of CoESE scientists from environmental and genomic fields with
 UKCEH scientists and stakeholders, complemented by open-science knowledge exchange, has
 resulted in ongoing inter-institutional collaboration since 2014 on flagship and impactful UKRI-
 funded research, including NERC Highlight Topics (e.g. LOFRESH, Creer, 2015-2020,
 GBP532,000), NERC Large Grants (e.g. DOMAINE), STARS CDT and Covid-19 national
 monitoring, as well as the internationally-pioneering GBP3,600,000 Environment & Rural Affairs
 Monitoring and Modelling Programme (ERAMMP), which is transforming the evidence-base for
 Welsh Government environmental policy making.

 Defra grants (PI-Chadwick; total GBP317,000) supported two phases of the Sustainable
 Intensification Platform and other infrastructure developments at the Henfaes Research Centre,
 further enhanced through two BBSRC/Newton-funded Centres for Agricultural Nitrogen
 (GBP784,000) and Welsh Government capital funding. This has substantially increased capacity
 for research on sustainable food production. Henfaes is a 252-ha resource providing unrivalled
 capacity to research diverse environments, land use and GHG fluxes across an altitudinal cline,
 from sea-level to mountain, a major focus for PhD projects. It hosts the University’s Centre for
 Hill and Upland Management whose commercial sheep unit supports research into
 environmental impacts of management regimes, e.g. Uplands-N2O (PI-Chadwick, NERC;
 GBP458,000). Together these key infrastructures enable our research that informs the farming
 industry’s drive for climate-smart management linked to key policy changes, notably UK Net-

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Zero Carbon and Clean Air Strategies. Through this investment Henfaes has gained designation
 as a Global Farm Platform Network site and Linking-Environment-And-Farming Innovation
 Centre. Henfaes also hosts the bequest-funded Sir William Roberts Centre for sustainable land
 use, a new collaboration amongst CoESE staff, students and partners to foster interdisciplinary
 sustainability research.

 Several of our priority research areas have benefited from investment in specialist
 infrastructure and facilities. For example, within CEB the Biotechnology research group
 gained a GBP2,600,000 state-of-art equipment investment, including liquid handling robotics for
 high-throughput cloning and expression of proteins, microscale bioreactors and specialist mass
 spectrometers (ion mobility spectrometry and triple quadrupole LC-MS for targeted
 metabolomics). Together they provide world-leading capability in enzyme and biomolecular
 discovery, whilst also enabling rapid advance in our new strategic focus on Aquatic Pollution
 through cutting-edge microbiological research. Additionally, establishment of the Shellfish Centre
 has generated complementary investment (GBP110,000) in two new Category II microbiology
 laboratories within MCW that enabled the research underpinning the Viral pathogens ICS
 (Malham, Jones-D). Finally, capabilities for cross-cutting work in geospatial analysis have been
 transformed through the purchase of a Terrestrial Laser Scanner (TLS), Differential Global
 Positioning System (DGPS), and Mavic 2 Pro Drone, enabling us to map the spatiotemporal
 dynamics of terrestrial and coastal ecosystems over broad geographic areas.

 We are the best equipped University in the UK for research on shelf seas, supported by the RV
 Prince Madog. This 35-m, 390-tonne vessel hosts 10 scientists continuously at sea for up to 10
 days and was instrumental in research underpinning the Sustainable fisheries ICS (Hiddink).
 RV Prince Madog is a NERC-recognised facility, owned through a joint venture between Bangor
 and P&O Maritime Services. To support novel Marine Resources research utilising the vessel,
 key investment has been made in three new Coastal Observatories (GBP450,000), floating
 multi-sensor arrays that feed real-time data to iMarDis (the data management and information
 portal developed through SEACAMS2) and a new multibeam seabed mapping system in 2020
 (GBP180,000). Together they significantly enhance the resolution and scale of our mapping
 capabilities.

 Our research and impact are supported by key operational and scholarly infrastructure. Two
 chief technicians coordinate 29 core-funded technicians across SOS, SNS and the research
 centres, and provide operational expertise in specialist equipment and facilities. These include
 essential laboratory, fieldwork and computing expertise, like the running and maintenance of
 world-class fresh- and sea-water aquaria (with Home Office-license) that support priority
 research areas Animal Physiology and Behaviour and Marine Resources. These were
 recently upgraded to include a tropical fish laboratory for the Sustainable Aquariums Project
 (ERDF, SNAP, King, GBP385,000), which is enhancing fish-breeding capabilities to reduce
 pressures on tropical ecosystems from aquarium-trade wild harvesting, and quarantine facilities
 for work through ECOSTRUCTURE on non-native biosecurity. Our technicians also provide key
 analytical support in proteomics, genomics, and metabolomics and the systems manager
 ensures ‘big data’ researchers have the necessary training and technical support to benefit from
 high-performance computing through partnership with Supercomputing Wales. Several research
 themes benefit from the University’s 18-ha Treborth Botanic Garden (an increasingly rare
 resource in UK academia) comprising a diversity of woodland and rare grassland habitats,
 orchards, and specialist plant collections, glasshouses and below-ground rhizotron. Treborth
 also hosts the migratory bird facility, key research infrastructure for Holland and Bishop’s work
 on bird migration. The garden provides vibrant citizen-science engagement with the local
 community through The Friends of Treborth Botanic Garden, an aesthetically inspiring filming
 backdrop for research outreach and impact, including a recent BBC ‘One Show’, and a key well-
 being resource for research staff, students and the public.

 We promote collaborative use of our diverse research infrastructure. RV Prince Madog
 facilitates collaboration with numerous UK government partners and research institutions. For
 example, since 2014 she has provided core research support in sustainable management of

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Marine Resources to the Welsh and Isle of Man Governments (continuing through Jenkins,
 2020-2025 GBP896,000 Fisheries science advice to the Isle of Man; McCarthy, European
 Maritime and Fisheries Fund/Welsh Government 2019-2023, GBP960,000) providing an
 integrated assessment of Irish Sea fisheries and underpinning marine ecology. Collaborations
 with Aberystwyth, Swansea, University College Cork, the Marine Institute and Bord Iascaigh
 Mhara have been realised through the BLUEFISH project; simultaneous cruises with the Celtic
 Voyager have allowed characterisation of microbial communities around oceanographic features
 as part of underpinning research toward climate change policy. In Biotechnology, BC supports
 the commercial use of its pilot-scale production and testing instruments, facilitating both
 research collaborations and science up-take with end-user industry partners. The radio isotope
 facilities in ECW enable joint-funded projects with other HEIs including Bristol, Lancaster,
 Lincoln (New Zealand) and Western Australia. The infrastructure at Henfaes is used by
 collaborative partners, including Nottingham, Southampton, Sheffield, Warwick and Rothamsted
 Research for pot-, plot-, field- and landscape-scale research, and two BBSRC/NERC-SARIC-
 funded projects (both Jones-D, total GBP545,000) in partnership with industry (e.g. Yara, NRM
 Laboratories). We collaborate with UKCEH in using their ozone enrichment experimental facility
 also located at Henfaes.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 4.1 Facilitating research collaborations and partnerships

 UoA7 staff collaborate widely with academics, partners in industry, NGOs and governments
 across the world, evidenced through the wide reach of our research impact. For example, the six
 ICS’s alone include direct impact in 47 countries across 5 continents.

 The staff support outlined in section 2, plus specific funding mechanisms and outward-facing
 seminar series, facilitate the development and maintenance of partnerships and collaboration.
 SOS awards Kirby-Laing Fellowships to support sabbatical visits by international scientists (e.g.
 Turra, Universidade de São Paulo, Brazil and UNESCO Chair for Ocean Sustainability;
 Timmermans, Yale University, USA; MacKinnon, SCRIPPS Oceanographic Institution, USA).
 We regularly host visiting self-funding senior academics (e.g. Tripathi, Mizoram University, India,
 funded by a DBT-CREST Fellowship), early-career researchers (e.g. Llopis funded by Swiss
 Science Foundation) and numerous visiting PhD students. We support regular multidisciplinary
 research seminar series covering: Life and Environment, and Ocean and Geosciences; and
 more focused, group seminars including: Molecular Ecology, Behaviour and Physiology,
 Biogeochemistry, Environmental Biotechnology, Forestry, Conservation, and Marine Renewable
 Energy. During the COVID-19 lockdown we have been instrumental in setting up several
 international, virtual seminar series. These include the Sed-Online initiative and Virtual European
 Physical-Oceanography Shelf-Seas seminar series (co-led by Lenn and Rippeth).

 Examples of major Bangor-led national and international collaborations:
     Turner-J leads the GBP2,100,000 Bertarelli Programme in Marine Science “Coral Reef
      condition in the Chagos Archipelago” Monitoring Programme with partners including
      UCL, Oxford, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution and local stakeholders.
     Green developed an international collaborative network (NASA, Harvard, Washington,
      Oregon, Purdue, Lisbon, Stockholm, Upsala and Oxford Universities) including
      leadership of the NERC MATCHES program, which is unravelling the key role of ocean
      tides in the evolution of climate, and potentially life on earth and on exoplanets.
     Smith co-founded the joint research centre between Bangor University and Central-
      South University of Forestry and Technology (CSUFT) in Changsha, Hunan, China (first
      joint publication Smith,McDonald-M,Patil.2019 Proceedings National Academy
      Sciences USA).


                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Chadwick established academic-industry collaborations to address sustainable dairy
        production in Costa Rica and across South America through leadership of the GCRF
        Sus-CoRiDa project (GBP425,000), partnering with the Tropical Agricultural Research
        and Higher Education Center (CATIE), processors, farming cooperatives and the Ministry
        of Agriculture.
       McDonald-J pioneered work into the microbiome analysis of complex host-microbiota
        interactions leading to Acute and Chronic Oak decline with multiple collaborators, notably
        Forest Research, which has led to two recent awards from BBSRC with a total value of
        GBP3,400,000. McDonald-J also leads research into the use of synthetic landfill
        microbial communities for enhanced biomass conversion to biogas (SYNBIOGAS;
        BBSRC; GBP462,000), with Leipzig and Marseille partners.


 Major long-term collaborations demonstrate the sustainability of our research and have led to
 important impact. Many individual staff have long-term productive links around the globe (e.g.
 Jenkins, McCarthy–Brazil 12 years; Healey, McDonald-M–Jamaica 35 and 30 years
 respectively; Sinclair–Kenya 25 years; Jones-J–Madagascar 20 years; Skov–Kenya 15 years;
 St.John–Tanzania 8 years). At the institutional level we have maintained collaborations through
 significant grant income. For example:
      Longstanding partnership with UKCEH through Environment Centre Wales (ECW) has
         resulted in new collaborative research including: the NERC consortium of 20
         organisations led by Creer on understanding the ecological relevance of eDNA in
         freshwater lotic ecosystems (total GBP1,100,000); the multi-institution NERC large grant
         on dissolved organic matter in freshwater ecosystems (Jones-D, total GBP2,000,000);
         the Jones-D-led (with Chadwick) NERC/BBSRC/Defra Soil Security Programme award:
         Securing long-term ecosystem function in lowland organic soils (SEFLOS); and
         partnership in three Bangor-led NRN-LCEE research clusters (Multi-Land, Climate-smart
         Grass and Resilcoast). ECW is the hub of the pan-Wales UKCEH-led ERAMMP,
         partnered by Bangor (see section 3.2). A joint monthly ECW seminar series includes
         speakers from UKCEH and the University, acting as a platform to disseminate research
         and foster new collaboration.
      The physical oceanography and sediments groups have historically strong links with the
         National Oceanography Centre (NOC), British Antarctic Survey, Scottish Association for
         Marine Science (SAMS), Met Office and BGS (e.g. 7 joint PhD students since 2014, and
         through membership/leadership of the recent NERC PcynMix, COHBED, OSMOSIS,
         FASTNET, TEA-COSI, CandyFlos and BRITICE-CHRONO consortia) adding significant
         weight to our Marine Resources focus. Research in Arctic oceanic mixing includes
         collaborations with Alfred Wegener Institute Germany, Universities of Fairbanks, Yale,
         CNRS-Ifremer, Bergen, Institute of Ocean Sciences Canada, Norwegian Polar Institute
         and Lomonosov Moscow.
      We have long-established, strong links with Rothamsted Research, particularly through
         Chadwick and Jones-D’s BBSRC-, NERC- and Defra-funded research on improving
         nitrogen-use efficiencies in cropping and livestock systems, and understanding the
         environmental and management factors that control agricultural N2O emissions.
      Sinclair has 25 years of continuous research collaboration with World Agroforestry
         (ICRAF) – a UN CGIAR Centre), which led to a novel framework for agroecological
         development to be adopted internationally by the UN Committee on World Food Security,
         described in the Agro-ecology ICS.



 4.2 Engagement with end-users to enhance impact




                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have a long track record of end-user engagement and run regular impact training events to
 share good practice. Bangor has hosted external workshops specifically aimed at promoting
 end-user engagement with research-active staff, supported through NRN-LCEE. The
 Collaboration for Environmental Evidence, led by Pullin as Chief Executive, is a major
 international initiative spanning 7 countries (UK, Australia, Canada, France, South Africa,
 Sweden, USA) to engage stakeholders and systematically assess the effectiveness of natural-
 environment management and policy interventions. Bangor is one of 24 UK universities to
 receive ESRC Impact-Acceleration-Account funding, which supported Bishop, Jones-J,
 Malhotra, Pullin, Rippeth, Turner-J and Willcock to enhance delivery of economic and social
 research impact.

 We support two outward-facing centres undertaking research activity based on engagement with
 end user partners. CAMS links academic research to real-world applications in marine sciences,
 as outlined in section 3. BC’s industry-facing approach is demonstrated through collaborative
 projects with large national and multinational companies (e.g. Mitsubishi Chemicals; Huntsman
 Chemicals; Kronospan; Unilever; BSW; Croda, Mars, PPG, Tate and Lyle) through to SME’s and
 start-ups (e.g. Silverlining Furniture; Lignia Wood Company; Penotec). Its work has made a
 substantial contribution to UK government policy on climate-mitigation strategies through
 promoting the role of biomass utilization in meeting UK 2050 emission targets. Spear and
 Ormondroyd’s analyses of wood in construction for carbon-emissions abatement informed the
 Committee on Climate Change’s 2018 report: Biomass in a low-carbon economy.

 Our commitment to external partnerships and investment in impact-relevant infrastructure, has
 ensured that since 2014 our economic and societal contributions extend well beyond those
 detailed in the 6 ICS’s, e.g.
     Williams-G’s international research generating high-resolution climate projections for
         coral reefs is used in training workshops (e.g. NOAA, TNC) and as evidence in
         documents produced by the United Nations Environment Programme, Department of
         Environment and Energy (Australia) and UK Houses of Parliament.
     Austin’s collaboration with the Royal National Lifeboat Institution through a NERC
         Partnership grant led to a change in beach risk assessment for rip-current hazards. This
         also led to significant outreach via various news channels including BBC TV World.
     Our PhD training is generating impact (section 2). For example, an Envision DTP PhD
         student supervised by Van Landeghem, with CASE partners NOC and Llanelli Sand
         Dredging, has guided sustainable sand-dredging practice (VanLandeghem,Baas.2019
         Marine Geology).
     Steele’s Innovate-UK project (GBP432,000) with LGC Biosearch Technologies and
         South-Asian rice breeders generated novel genomic assays that are replacing 1990’s
         markers in national programme rice improvement, while EU tomato breeders have
         benefitted from the new assay designs.
     Charlton has established the Biorefining Technology Transfer Centre and, through
         BEACON+, in 2014 was awarded the European Commission’s Regio-Stars award for
         good practice in regional development.
     Smith and Healey collaborate closely with the Woodland Trust (WT) who have co-
         funded several PhD studentships and research projects. Agroforestry research outputs
         generated by their MULTILAND NRN-LCEE research cluster featured in the WT’s formal
         proposal to Welsh Government for a new agroforestry component to the Welsh farm
         support scheme (2020).
     The collaboration of Williams-A with the water industry on the Hydro-BPT and Dŵr Uisce
         projects has enabled Welsh Water to prioritise potential hydropower schemes for
         investment to build their renewable energy portfolio in order to reduce carbon emissions
         and ultimately reduce water bills for consumers.




                                                                                         Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.3 Engagement with diverse communities

 As the centre for higher education for a large region, we are heavily involved in outreach.
 Through active dissemination at major annual cultural events, including the Royal Welsh Show
 (average annual attendance 250,000) and the National Eisteddfod (160,000), we promote STEM
 and agriculture/food stakeholder engagement. We also led the Bangor Science festival (1000
 per day) until 2019 when it merged with the Anglesey Food and Boat shows to become the
 Festival of Discovery (1500 per day). We provide STEM activities across the region, interacting
 with over 70 schools during 2018-19 alone, as well as participating in the Welsh Government-
 funded SEREN network. In particular, Lenn’s contribution to STEM development was
 recognised by reaching the national finals of the 2018 Womenspire-Chwarae Teg Awards.

 Through partnership in the Time4Geography initiative Baas received the 2020 Silver Publishers’
 Award of the Geographical Association for educational videos on tsunamis. Willcock played a
 leading role in a National Geographic documentary “The Lost Forest”, which has had over 1
 million views since its release in May 2020. Lenn and Green produced a popular science book
 “30 Second Ocean” (Ivy Press) translated into 4 languages. Skov developed an app to estimate
 carbon sequestration in salt marshes (NRN-LCEE Resilcoast), now widely used by A-level
 students.

 The novelty of our environmental research reaches beyond academia as evidenced by coverage
 of individual research outputs (Figure 1).
  Output                                      Altimetric score  News outlets
  Willcock.2020 Nature Communications         1920              253
  Bishop.2016 Science                         776               82
  Shannon.2014 PNAS                           703               44
  Williams-G.2016 Scientific Reports          637               62
  Williams.2019 PNAS                          486               38
  Bishop.2015, Science                        399               29
  Hiddink.2019 Nature Climate Change          279               17
  Green.2020 Proc Roy Soc A                   192               15
 Figure 1: Examples of altimetric scores and news coverage of Bangor research outputs.

 A notable example of the use of our environmental research in the media is Freeman’s
 collaborative work with Friends of the Earth (FoE), the first to highlight the widespread
 contamination of inland waters by plastics (Freeman.2019 Journal Limnology). Widely reported
 (>500 media outlets globally including SKY, BBC, ITN), this is being used as evidence in the
 development of the “Plastics Pollution Bill” in collaboration with FoE, Women’s Institute, Marine
 Conservation Society and Soil Association, and was a finalist in the UK’s first national ‘Plastic
 Free’ award in 2019.

 Other recent research-based interactions with mainstream media include: Jones-J’s
 participation in the BBC’s 2020 landmark (Attenborough) documentary Extinction: The Facts;
 National TV News (Jones-J, Jones-D, Lenn); Countryfile (PhD student supervised by Smith));
 Gardeners’ World (Jones-D and another PhD student supervised by Smith)); One Show
 (Austin, Creer, Webster); In Our Time (Holland); Newsweek (Green, Rippeth); World Service
 Newsday (Rippeth, Willcock), Farming Today (Healey); Discovery Channel (PhD student
 supervised by Smith)); The Guardian (Jones-J) and The Observer (Healey).
 Bangor was an early adopter of The Conversation and has strongly encouraged engagement
 since its inception in 2010. Since 2014, >75 articles have been published by UoA7 staff and
 student researchers, attracting a global readership >2.5 million (1st Jan 2021), including 424,776
 for Austin’s 2016 article on rip-currents as coastal hazards.




                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.4 Indicators of wider influence

 The influence of our staff is indicated through prizes awarded since 2014: Freeman (Society of
 Wetland Scientists, International Fellows Award), Austin (British Society for Geomorphology,
 Gordon Warwick Medal), Carvalho (Fisheries Society of British Isles, Beverton Medal), Rippeth
 (Royal Meteorological Society, Vaisala Prize), Jones-J (British Ecological Society, Founders’
 Prize), Thomas (Learned Society of Wales, elected Fellowship). Our PhD students have also
 been recognised: one supervised by Baas was the first PhD student to be awarded the biannual
 International Association of Sedimentologists’ Faas Research Prize. Turner-G had a fish
 (Placidochromis turneri) named after him in recognition of his work on Lake Malawi cichlids and
 The UK Antarctic Place-names Committee named an Antarctic Glacier after Thomas.

 The influence of our staff stretches from regional to global scales and from academia through
 to government and industry via membership and chairing of numerous bodies, as illustrated by
 examples across a range of career stages:

 UKRI panels/ committees:
    Most staff peer review for UKRI, with >15 participating in UKRI national panels since
       2014.
    Thomas is a member of the NERC Science Committee (2017-) and has chaired
       numerous panels including the NERC Task-and-Finish panel for Centres for Doctoral
       Training (2019) and the UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship panel (2019-2020). He initiated
       and is Chair of the major NERC Changing Arctic Ocean programme (GBP20,000,000)
       2017-present.
    Van Landeghem was a member of the NERC Training Advisory Board (2016-19) and
       Training Advisory Network (2019-).
    Creer is a member of the NERC Biomolecular Analysis Facility Committee


 Membership of other national and international academic committees:
    Chadwick: National Academy of Agricultural Green Development, International Advisory
      Committee (2019-)
    Patil: American Geophysical Union, Catchment Hydrology Technical Committee (2020-)
    Lenn: Chair, International Scientific Committee on Oceanic Research, working group on
      oceanic mixing (2020-).
    Green: Challenger Society for Marine Sciences, Council (2014-2018), Honorary
      Secretary (2018-).
    McDonald-M: Commonwealth Scholarship Commissioner (2020-).
    Thomas: Chair, NOC, Association of Marine National Capability Beneficiaries Steering
      Board (2019-)
    Hiddink: Deputy Chair, British Ecological Society, Grants Committee.


 Membership of government bodies:
    Jones-D: DEFRA Climate Change Committee
    Williams-A: Chair, Agricultural Industry Climate Change Forum; Welsh Government,
      Strategic Framework for Agriculture Group (Amaeth Cymru); Farming Connect
      programme (GBP45,000,000), Board
    Jones-J: Darwin Expert Committee, reviewer DEFRA forest/biodiversity strategy
    Carvalho: Natural Resources Wales, Evidence Advisory Committee.
    Waggitt: Joint Nature Conservation Committee (JNCC), Joint Cetacean Protocol
      Steering Group
    Turner-J: Foreign and Commonwealth Office British Indian Ocean Territory, Advisor.



                                                                                         Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Commercial/ Industry bodies:
    Ormondroyd: Chair, Wood Technology Society (2018-2022), Strategic Advisor, Institute
     of Materials, Minerals and Mining
    Webster: Founding Member, UK Shrimp Hub, collaborating with the first commercial
     shrimp grow-out facility in UK (Flo Gro)
    Sinclair: Leader, Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research (CGIAR),
     Smallholder Production and Markets research programme
    Healey: Chair, Institute of Chartered Foresters, Professional and Educational Standards
     Committee (2014-2017).
    Williams-A: National Farmers Union, Net Zero Science Advisory Panel.
 We recognise the importance of editorship of major international journals. Within this REF period
 47% of our staff have been heavily involved with editorial duties, including Carvalho (Editor,
 Proceedings Royal Society B, Fish and Fisheries, Conservation Genetics and Molecular
 Ecology), Pullin (Editor-in-Chief, Environmental Evidence), Healey (Speciality Chief Editor,
 Frontiers in Forests and Global Change), Jones-D (Editor, Frontiers in Agronomy), Chadwick
 (Editor, Frontiers of Agricultural Sciences and Engineering), Golyshina (Editor, Scientific
 Reports and Associate Editor, Frontiers in Microbiology), Lenn (Editor, Journal of Physical
 Oceanography), Georgiev (Editor, American Journal of Primatology), Hill (Editor, Rhizosphere),
 Ormondroyd (Editor, International Wood Products). A further 27 of our staff act as Associate
 Editors and/or Editorial Advisory Board Members.

 All staff share their work through attendance at international conferences, with many invited to
 give plenary lectures and keynotes. Recent examples include: Carvalho, keynote speaker,
 International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES) Annual Science Conference
 (Denmark, 2015) and the World Fisheries Congress (Korea, 2016); Golyshina, keynote
 presenter, Gordon Research Conference on Archaea (Switzerland, 2019) and 12th International
 Congress on Extremophiles (Italy, 2018); Williams-G, invitee, International Symposium:
 ‘Rethinking the Future for Coral Reefs’, convened by the Earl of Wessex, Patron, Central
 Caribbean Marine Institute; Pullin, invitee of King Carl XVI Gustav of Sweden, Royal Colloquium
 ‘Environmental reality: Rethinking the options’; Green and Lenn, amongst the 24 invited
 speakers, inaugural Gordon Research Conference on Ocean Mixing (USA, 2018).




                                                                                          Page 22
