Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Cambridge

 Unit of Assessment: 25 Area Studies




 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 The Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies (FAMES) originated as Oriental Studies in the
 late nineteenth century. It was founded on a commitment to scholarship based on thorough
 knowledge of the textual legacies and historical traditions of the cultures of East and South Asia
 and the Middle East. Today, FAMES aims to be a premier institution for research and education
 on much of North Africa, the Middle East, South Asia and East Asia both historically and from a
 contemporary perspective. FAMES is interdisciplinary, with specialists in literature, history,
 anthropology, linguistics, and politics.

 FAMES consists of two Departments, the Department of Middle Eastern Studies with 13 full-
 time, University-funded academics and the Department of East Asian Studies with 17. The
 Faculty has a further seven staff working in academic related positions such as language
 teachers and librarians, as well as 16 support staff members. The two Heads of Department act
 as co-Chairs of the Faculty as a whole. The Cambridge colleges contribute to the research life of
 the Faculty through their support for colleagues who are also college members as well as for our
 students, all of whom are college members.

 An important characteristic of FAMES is the large number –19 at present – of early career
 researchers (postdoctoral co-workers, Junior Research Fellows, research associates, and full-
 time academics in the first three years of their careers). We are proud that we are attractive to
 researchers in the first phase of their career. We take our task to support them and so help
 safeguard the future of our fields very seriously, as will be further elaborated in Section 2:
 People.

 There is much that binds us together beyond our commitment to the importance of knowing
 other cultures through the texts of all kinds they produce. Much of our research crosses
 disciplinary boundaries and regional descriptors, from studies of trade in pre-modern East Asia
 and the Middle East to the ethnography of today’s migrant Syrian merchant communities in
 western China. In the Department of Middle Eastern Studies, Arabic and Persian are linked as
 the two main languages of the classical Islamic world. Arabic, Hebrew and Aramaic overlap as
 fellow Semitic languages, and Persian and Sanskrit connect as languages of South Asia. There
 is a concentration of expertise on neo-Aramaic at Cambridge, unique in the UK, which has led to
 important interdisciplinary research work. In the Department of East Asian Studies, modern East
 Asian history closely connects Japan, China and Korea. Other main areas are Chinese
 manuscripts; Japanese arts of the book; medieval Chinese and Japanese history; modern
 Chinese and Japanese literatures, and cultural studies, along with modern history and the
 politics and international relations of East Asia. Cambridge is one of the few universities where
 the modern and pre-modern forms of our languages are taught and researched together (for
 example in weekly seminars, colloquia and reading groups), enriching both and eliminating an
 artificial dividing line that arose from now dated theories of modernization.



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 FAMES’ research strategy at the beginning of the assessment period aimed at increasing the
 number of postgraduate students and postdoctoral co-workers and integrating them further into
 our research activities; creating greater synergies among the research activities of teaching staff,
 especially those whose research has common methodological elements; and expanding into the
 languages of Central Asia—which lie geographically between the Middle East and East Asia—
 through pursuing possible new sources of funding for research positions.

 This strategy was modified as a result of the report of the University’s Strategic Research
 Review of the Faculty at the beginning of July 2016. This review by an external panel reinforced
 the first two objectives of increasing postgraduate and postdoctoral numbers and strengthening
 synergies. It modified the third: rather than seeking posts in a new language group, the faculty
 decided to build upon existing strengths, as a result of which FAMES gained university support
 for new posts in Chinese and Korean Studies, which have now been filled.

        Following the 2016 review, our research strategy became:

        1. Develop our graduate programmes and strengthen our research culture.
        2. Develop strengths in both pre-modern and modern area studies and in particular to
           support research work that cuts across this chronological distinction.
        3. Enhance our connections with other departments locally and internationally.

          Two organisational changes made at the end of the last assessment period and the
 beginning of this one contributed towards achieving our strategic goals. First, a FAMES
 Research Committee now reviews grant applications, organizes cross-Faculty annual research
 days, promotes new research initiatives, and keeps watch over our research environment.
 Second, research-active staff, postdoctoral researchers and graduate students of the Faculty
 now belong to one of six Research Groups: (i) China Studies, (ii) Japanese and Korean Studies,
 (iii) Studies of India, Iran, Central Asia and the Caucasus, (iv) Modern Middle Eastern Studies,
 (v) Studies of the Pre-Modern Middle East, and (vi) Hebrew and Semitic Studies. These groups
 are complemented by disciplinary clusters which draw together individuals working in different
 languages but in the same discipline: Contemporary Culture and Society, History, Manuscript
 Studies, Literature, Linguistics, Politics and International Relations, and Social Anthropology.

 To meet our first objective, we have instituted new taught MPhil programmes in Chinese
 Studies, Middle Eastern Studies, and Japanese Studies. The MPhil in Chinese Studies now
 regularly attracts over 60 applicants for ten slots. To support these, and strengthen our research
 culture, we have initiated regular research seminars, informal reading groups and study circles
 to foster a research culture in which graduate students, postdocs and research-active staff
 interact in a variety of overlapping sub-groups. In the case of Chinese Studies, for instance,
 there is a weekly China Research Seminar which regularly attracts around 50 attendees, a
 weekly text-reading seminar held in cooperation with the Needham Research Institute, and a
 weekly Buddhist Studies Seminar. The Japanese Studies Section also holds a weekly research
 forum that highlights eminent scholars residing locally and from around the world. A Middle
 Eastern Studies roundtable brings together on a weekly basis staff from around the University
 working on Middle Eastern topics to read and discuss ongoing research. Some (but far from all)
 of these seminars and reading groups paused at the beginning of the pandemic restrictions.
 However, once it became clear that online seminars were entirely practicable, most were
 resumed, including the Dunhuang Texts Seminar and the seminars and meetings of the Centre
 for Islamic Studies. Because it became possible for those not physically in Cambridge to attend
 these seminars, they have grown their audiences. For postgraduate students, they are now even


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 more important in order to foster a sense of community and maintain engagements.

 The Faculty has certainly seen a rapid increase in the number of our MPhil and PhD students
 over the assessment period. Between 2015 and 2019, the annual intake of new postgraduate
 students has risen from 25 to 42 and applications from 110 to 180. Because the MPhil course is
 designed to train students for PhD work, a significant number continue on for the PhD. Our PhDs
 have proved competitive: they hold posts in leading departments in the UK and internationally.
 We are proud of our role in maintaining our fields academically.

 To meet our second and third objectives, we have encouraged staff to engage more fully with
 other institutions in the University. Colleagues have made more intensive use, for instance, of
 the University’s Humanities Centre (The Centre for the Arts, Sciences and Social Sciences at
 Cambridge, CRASSH). It provides excellent facilities for organizing workshops and seminars. It
 also runs a scheme that provides early career researchers with additional time free from
 teaching and administrative duties. As explained in Section 4 below, several staff, Professor
 Khaled Fahmy and Drs Brigitte Steger and Boping Yuan among them, collaborate intensively
 with colleagues across Cambridge’s Arts and Humanities Faculties.

 The Global Humanities Initiative of the School of Arts and Humanities, initiated in the 2019/20
 academic year, further enhances our collaborations with partner Departments and Faculties at
 Cambridge and in the wider world. Its aims are to contribute to the globalisation and
 decolonisation of the university curriculum and university research through closer collaboration
 with colleagues at the American University in Beirut, Ashoka University in India, Fudan and
 Nanjing Universities in China, Universidad Diego Portales in Chile, and the Chinese University of
 Hong Kong. In collaboration with our partner universities, the initiative will develop a suite of core
 themes such as conceptualizations of the good life and good governance; formulate and secure
 funding for joint research projects; and facilitate cloud-based joint teaching activities to bring
 students and teachers from all partners together. Professor Hans van de Ven is co-Chair of the
 initiative, which has already provided three grants to FAMES academics for Global Humanities
 Projects (elaborated below) to bring together scholars from partner universities with Cambridge
 academics.


 All these initiatives have had a tangible impact on the research environment at FAMES. The total
 volume of publications and other research-related professional activities is evidence of the
 Faculty’s success. Over the assessment period, we produced 37 books and nearly 400 other
 outputs. Nineteen staff participated in more than 50 different research collaborations, networks,
 and partnerships around the world, while fifteen faculty members held 39 journal editorships.
 Thirteen members of staff delivered more than 134 keynote lectures all over the world during the
 REF period, and more than half of our colleagues refereed manuscripts for 152 peer reviewed
 journals and publishers. Our grant income was over £11M.

 FAMES benefits from a supportive institutional framework for impact. FAMES stands out
 because we work closely with two units, the Alwaleed Bin Talal Centre Centre for Islamic
 Studies and the Genizah Research Unit, whose remit is impact. FAMES hosts the former. The
 Centre for Islamic Studies promotes a constructive understanding of Islam and Muslims in the
 UK and the wider world. The Genizah Research Unit at the University Library promotes the




                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 understanding of medieval Jewish culture, history, law, and commerce in the wider world. It too
 provides one of our case studies. Our Impact Case Studies are the result of their activities.

 We emphasize impact potential in recruitment, in grant applications, and in supporting
 colleagues, with our Research Committee, the Faculty Co-Chairs, and our Impact Champion
 acting in a coordinating capacity. While there is no expectation that all colleagues engage in
 impact activities, we instead seek out and support projects that do have this potential. The
 University and the School provide effective institutional support by providing impact grants and
 advice.

 The Faculty runs an active visiting scholars scheme. We have welcomed 101 visiting academics
 and 12 visiting students to Cambridge during the assessment period. Applications are vetted by
 the relevant department and we insist that each has a close research relationship with their host.
 Our visitors make use of our facilities and are typically actively involved in the academic life of
 the faculty. Our visitors not only contribute to the life of the Faculty while they are here, but are
 enormously helpful to us in providing contacts and local access to us after their return to their
 home countries. This has benefitted especially our historians and anthropologists. We have
 welcomed an especially large numbers of academic visitors from China. Our library resources
 are such that even now, during the Covid-19 pandemic, a number still want this association in
 order to consult them. In 2020, the Japanese Section launched a new collaborative initiative with
 Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry that will bring a senior ministry staff member to
 the faculty as an annual visitor. This scheme complements the University’s Centre for Science
 and Policy initiative intended to strengthen links between academics and policy makers.

  All students and colleagues must comply with the 2012 Concordat on Research Integrity and
 the current ESRC guidelines on research ethics in Humanities and Social Science research.
 Overall responsibility for research integrity and ethics in the Faculty resides with the FAMES
 Research Committee. Where a research project is deemed to require specific ethical review, all
 but the most straightforward cases are passed to the specialist Ethics Committee of the School
 of Humanities and Social Sciences. Simple cases are reviewed within the Faculty, by
 committees formed by the relevant department (Middle Eastern Studies or East Asian Studies).

 FAMES has just completed a review of its policies and practices used for ethical review of both
 student and staff research work. Our graduate students now regularly review and cite the ethical
 provisions that may influence their studies when formulating and presenting their own research
 projects. We also have a standard risk assessment process that Faculty members and students
 must complete before embarking on work away from the University. The risk assessment
 process for students is continuously under review to take account of the importance of
 addressing the challenge of working in rapidly changing parts of the world, especially those
 involving acute conflict.

 The global pandemic of 2020 has of course presented significant challenges to FAMES’
 research activities. However, the Faculty has been well-placed to respond, with the support of
 the wider University. Health and safety considerations, government restrictions and international
 travel restrictions have all impacted on various aspects of FAMES’ work. All of these factors
 prompted an acceleration and intensification in FAMES’ use of Information Technology in
 research activities, in supporting postgraduate researchers, and in outreach and impact
 activities. FAMES’ responses to the pandemic as they relate to research activity are outlined
 further in the relevant sections below.



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 In this section, staffing strategy and staff development are addressed under five headings:
 recruitment of staff on long-term contracts; postdoctoral staff; support for research staff;
 postgraduate students; and equality and diversity. In general, our staffing strategy is directed to
 support our strategic objectives (see Section 1, above).

 In all aspects of staffing and staff development, FAMES is committed to proper regard for
 protected characteristics. FAMES implements the principles of the 2008 Concordat to Support
 the Career Development of Researchers and is supported very effectively by School and
 University policies and practices. Appointment committee members are all trained in diversity,
 equality, and unconscious bias.

 Support for research staff

 FAMES’ policies and practices promote well-being, equality and diversity in order to maximise all
 colleagues’ opportunities to produce high quality research and impact, and develop
 professionally. All new appointees are linked with a mentor who provides advice and support
 outside of more formal management structures. Lecturers on probation (usually five years) meet
 their Head of Department termly to complete a report which notes expectations, achievements
 and issues. Probationary staff are given lighter administrative and teaching roles and the
 School’s STINT workload assessment contributes to tracking their workloads. After probation,
 Faculty researchers meet regularly with their Head of Department, and are expected to be
 formally appraised every two years.

 All new appointees are required to take Personal and Professional Development modules on the
 supervision of students and equality and diversity. All staff have access to an extensive range of
 training provided by the University, and are encouraged to take this up. Examples include career
 development training for postdoctoral fellows, leadership training for mid-career colleagues,
 support with grant applications and IT skills.

 In keeping with our strategy, FAMES’ approach to recruitment seeks to enhance existing
 strengths and establish new collaborations within the Faculty, with other units in the University,
 and with international partners. In the assessment period, this meant developing capacity in the
 early modern and modern periods, supporting collaborations across the University and further
 afield, and maintaining strength in history, literature, and culture in Persian, Chinese, Japanese
 and Arabic languages. These objectives are reflected in the eight long-term appointments made
 in the assessment period:

             1. Professor Mickey Adolphson, Keidanren Professor of Japanese Studies,
                specialises in the medieval Japanese world, has contributed to collaboration
                across departments in medieval history and to extensive collaboration with
                partners in Japan, especially in supporting graduate study.


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


            2. Dr Assef Ashraf, University Lecturer in Eastern Islamic Lands and the Persian
               Speaking World, specialises in the early modern and modern Persianate world
               and joins the Persian Studies and Modern Middle Eastern History clusters.


            3. Professor Khaled Fahmy, Sultan Qaboos Chair of Modern Arabic Studies,
               specialises in modern Egypt and strengthens our Middle Eastern History and
               Contemporary Arab Studies clusters, the University network of modern Middle
               Eastern historians, and our connections with colleagues in Egypt and the wider
               region.


            4. Dr Noga Ganany, University Lecturer in the Study of Late Imperial China,
               expands the faculty’s strength in Chinese Studies and early modern history.


            5. Dr Heather Inwood, University Lecturer in Modern and Contemporary Chinese
               Literature and Culture, specialises in poetry, genre fiction and modern media.


            6. Dr Andrew Marsham, Reader in Classical Arabic, joins the Classical Arabic
               cluster and the growing network for Late Antiquity and Medieval studies across
               the Humanities at Cambridge; he has led the reorganisation of our Middle Eastern
               Studies MPhil pathways.


            7. Dr Charis Olszok, University Lecturer in Modern Arabic Literature, has a research
               speciality in modern North African literature.


            8. Dr Vicky Young, Kawashima Lecturer in Japanese Literature and Culture,
               researches modern literature in Japan and Okinawa.


 In line with University policy, we actively encourage applications from people with protected
 characteristics, make efforts to advertise this in our recruitment materials, and advertise our
 posts widely, both nationally and internationally. Of the appointments to long-term positions
 made in the assessment period, 50% are women and at least 20% identify as BAME.

 There are four main subjects for future expansion, in line with the School’s focus on the
 development of the global humanities, outlined in Section 1. (1) In September 2020 we finalized
 the appointment of a University Lectureship in Korean Studies as a key element of a full Korean
 Studies programme. (2) A joint project is underway with a Cambridge College to secure a
 position in South-east Asian Studies with a view to enhancing connections between Middle
 Eastern Studies and South Asian Studies. (3) The further development of the study of Islamic Art
 at Cambridge is a priority, building on the research of Professor Amira Bennison, Dr Andrew
 Marsham, Emeritus Professor Charles Melville and Dr Deniz Türker, and developing inter-faculty
 collaborations. (4) The on-going Japan and the World initiative has led to four outside bursaries
 for postgraduate students and two postdocs.



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The most immediate impact of the pandemic on staffing policies were two University decisions to
 partially freeze new posts and to devolve sabbatical research leave deferral decisions to
 faculties. FAMES is unaffected by the recruitment freeze, with the recruitments mentioned above
 being in train before the pause. Applications to defer leave were discussed at subject group level
 before they were submitted to the Faculty Board. At least one colleague with significant childcare
 responsibilities had their leave deferred to 2021–22 from 2020-21, so that they were likely to be
 able to make better use of their research leave.

 Postdoctoral staff

 Postdoctoral researchers are supported and mentored to ensure they receive maximum benefit
 from their time at Cambridge and to support them in moving on to the next stage of their careers.
 Their development as researchers is a priority for the Faculty, and while opportunities for
 teaching and other contributions to academic life are provided, we are careful not to let these
 hamper their research. During 2017-18 and 2018-19, four Leverhulme postdoctoral students (Dr
 Arthur Dudney, Dr Nathaniel Miller, Dr Elizabeth Monier, Dr Krisztina Szilágyi) offered teaching
 in the Department of Middle Eastern Studies. Postdoctoral researchers teaching in East Asian
 Studies have included Dr Casper Wits, Dr Justin Winslett, Dr Tristan Brown, Dr Ewan Donald, Dr
 Joshua Batts, Dr Matthew Shores, and Dr Wu Junqing.

 Postdoctoral researchers on collaborative projects receive guidance and direction from the
 relevant PI, while postdoctoral researchers with individual projects and colleagues on short-term
 teaching contracts meet regularly with their mentor or Head of Department to discuss the future
 direction of their work and their broader career plans. When possible, new grant or postdoctoral
 applications are encouraged and supported. (For example, Dr Nathaniel Miller joined us as a
 Teaching Associate and then secured a three-year Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship).
 Researchers are encouraged to take advantage of University-wide initiatives that promote
 interdisciplinary and collaborative research – for instance at the University’s Centre for Research
 in the Arts, Social Sciences, and Humanities and the Language Sciences Interdisciplinary
 Research Centre, which formerly included Professor Geoffrey Khan on its steering committee.

 A large number of postdoctoral researchers pass through the Faculty – at least 25 in the
 assessment period – as well as affiliated lecturers and researchers from other areas of the
 university who have interests that connect closely with ours (such as Dr Sami Everett, Dr
 Elizabeth Fowden, Dr Francois de Blois, and Dr John Williamson). They and our postgraduate
 students profit from the many academic visitors who spend six months to a year at Cambridge,
 creating connections important to us all.

 Our innovative research projects and the appeal of working with specific researchers have
 attracted a growing number of outstanding postdocs. We encourage potential postdocs to apply
 to us via the Leverhulme-Newton Trust and British Academy schemes as well as non-UK
 funding bodies such as the Chiang Ching-kuo Foundation. In the Leverhulme-Newton Trust
 competition, we have succeeded frequently, with between one and three new Early Career
 Research Fellows joining the Faculty each year. The Junior Research Fellowships of Cambridge
 colleges usually attract hundreds of applicants. Recent increased success of Area Studies early
 career researchers in open these competitions has brought many scholars into collaboration with
 FAMES.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fundraising has allowed FAMES to support postdoctoral researchers with dedicated funds. The
 Centre for Islamic Studies has appointed six postdoctoral researchers in the assessment period:
 Dr Julian Hargreaves, Dr Ryan Williams, Dr Mehrunisha Suleman, Dr Deniz Türker, Dr
 Emanuelle Degli Espositi, and Dr Arafat Razzaque. A recurrent three-year postdoctoral research
 position in Japanese Studies is currently held by Dr Joshua Batts (a specialist in medieval
 Japanese history). The Japanese section has raised additional funding for a further postdoctoral
 fellowship. Funding has also been secured for a Postdoctoral Research Associate in Taiwan
 Studies.

 Postdoctoral researchers from FAMES frequently go on to secure prestigious research positions.
 Examples include: Dr Ryan Williams, now Lecturer at the University of Queensland; Dr Sherzod
 Muminov, now Lecturer at the University of East Anglia; Dr Casper Wits, now Lecturer at the
 University of Leiden; Dr Clinton Godart, now Lecturer at Tohoku University; Dr Matthew Shores,
 now Lecturer at the University of Sydney, and Dr Triston Brown, now Assistant Professor at MIT.

 University Teaching Officers (Lecturers, Senior Lectures, Readers and Professors) are entitled
 to take sabbatical leave (one term for every six). Staff choose whether to take leave immediately
 or whether to save up and take two terms in the fifth, or three terms in the seventh year as leave.
 Two junior probationary staff took sabbatical leave in the first term of 2019 to enable them to
 complete publications in time for REF 2021. Additional research leave is supported by research
 grant income.

 Postgraduate students

 Postgraduate students play a vital part in the research culture and academic life of the Faculty.
 Research students are participants in, and sometimes organisers of, our seminars, reading
 groups and conferences. They contribute to teaching, outreach and the governance of the
 Faculty through their representatives on committees and the Faculty Board.

 Applications for PhDs and MPhils by research are encouraged from accomplished students with
 outstanding projects that align closely with their potential supervisor’s research. We are
 committed to fairness and equality in our admissions and funding processes and have made
 significant changes to policies and practices with specific, detailed and objective scoring criteria
 being used in assessing applications and for prestigious Gates studentships and University- and
 Faculty-run funding competitions. All potential students are graded on their written applications
 and interviewed in an online video call. The Degree Committee reviews all admissions and a
 dedicated graduate funding committee reviews funding decisions. All members of our Degree
 Committee have completed equality and diversity training.

 FAMES uses its trust funds and additional grant income to support postgraduate research
 students. Trust funds are reviewed annually to ensure maximum benefit for our students.
 Offering partial funding allows us to approach relevant colleges and/or the Cambridge Trusts for
 matching funds. The Faculty focuses on raising dedicated funding from external, non-UK,
 sources. The Japanese section has secured in the assessment period three new postgraduate
 (PhD and Master level) scholarships (average £35K/student/year) from Toshiba, Nakagawa
 Associate Group, Tokyo and Quick, Inc, Osaka, in addition to the on-going Great Britain
 Sasakawa Scholarships. Postgraduates have also been supported by studentships attached to
 research grants, as in the case of Professor Barak Kushner’s five-year ERC project and a

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 project on Azeri funded by the Odlar Yurdu Foundation (Professor Geoffrey Khan).These
 valuable resources have allowed us to attract and retain exceptionally high-quality candidates
 across the assessment period.

 There are also Faculty and School funds to support postgraduate students in attending annual
 conferences and to allow them to organize workshops, including the 2019 University of
 Cambridge Graduate Conference in Middle Eastern Studies and a UK-wide conference of China
 Studies PhD students. Subject-specific trust funds support fieldwork as appropriate.

 Postgraduates in our Faculty also have opportunities for financial support from UKRI funding
 bodies, in particular the AHRC through its Block Grant Partnership schemes. Our Faculty has
 applied for specialist funding in the AHRC BGP2 scheme for languages in our area in a
 consortium with the University of Oxford and SOAS, University of London. The Faculty has had
 eight research students funded by the AHRC since 2016.

 Once admitted, research postgraduates work closely with their supervisors. Doctoral students
 also have an adviser from their subject area, to whom they can turn for additional academic
 advice and support. The welfare and wellbeing of students is the primary responsibility of their
 college tutor, through whom they can access college welfare and wellbeing support and advice
 and administrative support.

 Postgraduate research students meet regularly with their supervisors throughout the academic
 year and complete self-evaluation reports annually. Supervisors and college tutors respond to
 these, and they are reviewed by the Faculty’s Degree Committee. Because of the pandemic,
 many supervisors increased the frequency of their meetings with postgraduate students and
 continued them through the summer months, in some cases arranging weekly seminars with
 supervisees. Supervisors, advisers and tutors have supported students in responding to Covid-
 19’s impact on research, and intermission, working away and extension policies have been
 modified by the University to take account of the pandemic.

 All research students complete three development activities per term, recording them for their
 own reflection and review by their supervisor. For probationary PhD students there is a
 substantial written Progress Examination at the end of their first year, which is assessed by two
 reviewers. A more light-touch review takes place at the end of the second year. Throughout their
 research degree, students submit termly self-evaluation reports via an online portal, as do
 supervisors.

 First-year research students are met with frequently and supported in participating in the life of
 the Faculty. In Middle Eastern Studies all postgraduate students participate in the Theory and
 Method in Middle Eastern Studies paper, which introduces key theoretical and methodological
 issues in Middle Eastern Studies, alongside a framework of workshops and assignments
 focused on research skills. Similar classes are provided for postgraduate students in Japanese
 and Chinese Studies. Other training and development activities include specialist reading
 groups, research seminars and departmental talks, training modules such as postgraduate
 supervisor training, academic writing, and language courses; and attendance at international
 conferences. Research students are encouraged to offer supervisions to undergraduates and
 may also offer other types of teaching. Core teaching is always undertaken by academic staff.


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research synergies across the University are supported by CRASSH. At CRASSH
 postgraduates, postdoctoral researchers and staff from across the University interact in
 interdisciplinary programmes, reading groups, workshops, conferences and other events, such
 as Professor van de Ven’s international summer school in Chinese war history and the
 Byzantine Worlds project which supports Arabic, Armenian and Greek reading groups and a
 research seminar.

 The majority of our doctoral students spend significant fieldwork time outside the UK in a wide
 range of research contexts, including many collaborations with institutions in Asia and the Middle
 East. Some recent examples include:

         1. The Korea and Japan Policy Forum at Chatham House: through Dr Nilsson-Wright’s
 work with Chatham House, FAMES research students have attended monthly discussion groups
 held at Chatham House, meeting policy-makers, journalists, diplomats and business community
 representatives.

          2. Professor Geoffrey Khan’s students have been accepted on visiting student schemes
 at universities in the Middle East and North America. A recent example is Johan Lundber –
 visiting student at Yale, September to December 2019, where he researched and taught Neo-
 Aramaic.

        3. The China-UK Higher Education Research Partnership, supported by the Department
 of Business and the PRC, enabled three postgraduate students to work at East China Normal
 University’s History Department; four ECNU’s students came to Cambridge.

         4. Professor Barak Kushner shares students with colleagues at Waseda University in
 Japan where he teaches a summer course. Postdoctoral researchers are employed in his group
 and at Shanghai Jiaotong University and participate in their project on GIS mapping of war
 crimes.

        5. The Aoi Global Scholars programme, now in its fifth year, sends two students to Kyoto
 and Keio University in Japan each year for summer research; FAMES welcomes two Japanese
 students each year.

        6. Faculty members have also taken advantage of new collaborative research
 opportunities between Cambridge and partner institutions overseas, such as John Nilsson-
 Wright’s Defining the Indo-Pacific Project (2018-19), a collaboration with Science Po.

 Many FAMES research students have gone on to hold prestigious academic positions. Some
 examples include: Eleanor Coghill (2004 PhD, Chair at University of Uppsala, 2016); Judith
 Olszowy, (1995 PhD, now Chair at University of Oxford); Meira Polliack (1993 PhD, now Chair at
 University of Tel-Aviv, Ronny Vollandt (2011 PhD, now Chair at Ludwig Maximilian University of
 Munich); and Rana Mitter, OBE FBA (1995 PhD, Professor of Chinese and Director of Oxford
 China Centre, 2013-19). We hope that recent PhDs now in junior posts will have equally
 illustrious careers.

 Equality and Diversity

 FAMES is working to further improve its regard for protected characteristics. This commitment
 informs all aspects of recruitment and support of research staff. There are legacy challenges to
 address when it comes to ethnic and gender diversity across academia. We also take the view

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 that Area Studies academics have a particular obligation to take into account the ethical
 complexities relating to protected characteristics and academic endeavour. This view is reflected
 in our commitment to greater international academic connections (Section 1, above), where we
 have made significant advances (Section 4, below).

 We are committed to ensuring that FAMES is a fair and supportive research institution for all.
 We ensure mixed genders and career stages and student representation on all our committees.
 In assessing materials for submission for the REF, attention was paid to inviting all colleagues
 regardless of seniority and including postdoctoral researchers to contribute to the assessment of
 outputs. The members of the FAMES REF committee have all taken equality, diversity, and
 unconscious bias training.

 Flexible working is accommodated wherever possible through the scheduling of teaching and
 meetings at times that support colleagues’ other responsibilities. Caring responsibilities are the
 main reason for flexible working requests. The University’s Returning Carers Scheme also
 requires reduced and flexible working on returning to work after leave for caring responsibilities.
 Adjustments may also be made to teaching hours and work expectations.




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Consistent with our strategic goal of expanding our postgraduate and postdoctoral numbers,
 while also securing new posts in our existing language areas, the Faculty has made significant
 advances in expanding our income, infrastructure and facilities.

 Research Income

 FAMES is fortunate in having trust funds with a combined value of over £38M. They support the
 Sultan Qaboos Professorship of Arabic, the Keidanren Professorship of Japanese, the Needham
 Professorship of Chinese and nine lectureships, including four lectureships in Japanese Studies.
 In accordance with our strategy, we use this resource to maintain and strengthen our research
 operations. For instance, through careful internal planning and discussions with the School of
 Arts and Humanities, we have been able to expand Persian Studies and add a pre-modern
 Chinese and a Korean post. We use these funds to finance our Sanskrit programme. Our trust
 funds also allow us to allocate a £1,000 research allowance to each member of our academic
 staff, support conference attendance of graduate students, and fund undergraduate year abroad
 programmes.

 FAMES has raised more than £11M in external research support in the assessment period. This
 sum includes research funds from RCUK and ERC. Examples are the ERC funded ‘The
 Dissolution of the Japanese Empire and the Struggle for Legitimacy in Post-War Asia’ project
 (2013–19); ‘Trust, Global Traders, and Commodities in a Chinese International City’ (2015–20);
 ‘RESPOND: Multi-level Governance of Mass Migration in European and Beyond’ (2017–20);’
 and ‘Cleanliness, Convenience and Citizenship: Plastic Waste in Consumer Societies’ (2019–
 21). Dr Boping Yuan is Co-I of the £380K AHRC project on L2 Mandarin Chinese. Several
 faculty researchers participate in research projects based elsewhere, such as the School-wide
 AHRC funded ‘Multilingualism’ Project in Modern and Medieval Languages; the ERC funded
 ‘Impact of the Ancient City’ Project in Classics; and the ERC supported project ‘Trodities: Trust,
 Global Traders and Commodities in a Chinese International City’ at the University of Sussex.
 These collaborations are successful, producing numerous articles and books, and enrich our
 research environment by supporting research associations and postdoctoral co-workers.

 Institutional support for individual research funding initiatives

 FAMES encourages research-active staff to apply for one major grant every five years through
 mentoring, appraisal and support with sabbatical planning. Infrastructure that supports research
 and helps to secure and sustain grants is mainly provided at School level or via the Research
 Office. School research facilitators speak at research-focused events at FAMES, circulate
 information about grant calls, provide feedback on draft grant proposals, and help shepherd
 proposals through the University’s approval process. The Faculty Administrator checks all grant
 applications to budget for appropriate administrative support. The Research Committee keeps a
 record of grant proposals and actively encourages colleagues to apply for them.

 Junior researchers are now encouraged to pair with more senior colleagues and to apply for
 small to medium-sized grants as well as making larger grant applications as they gain

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 experience. For example, Dr Charis Olszok and Dr Christine van Ruymbeke are collaborating on
 an application for a project on Animals in Arabic and Persian Literature; Dr Barak Kushner and
 Dr Vicky Young have succeeded in securing funding for a project on historical and literary
 aspects of decolonial legacies in post-1945 East Asia through the Global Humanities Initiative.
 The same initiative also supports a collaborative project by Professor van de Ven and Dr Chau
 called ‘Language, Empire, and Nation.’

 Charitable, commercial and foundation support to foster research networks between Cambridge
 and the wider global research community

 FAMES colleagues engage actively with funders in East Asia and the Middle East, as well as
 with private charitable donors, foundations and commercial sponsors. External sponsorship
 allows high-profile annual lecture series, such as the Chuan-Lyu and Ra Jong-yil Lectures, while
 also (in the case of the Ra Fund), creating an accumulating funding base to further promote
 disciplinary development. These initiatives are vital in developing new forms of collaboration and
 partnership (see Section 4 below), and in securing the sustainability of crucial aspects of
 FAMES’ research.

 Significant time-limited research funds are the ‘Acquisition of Mandarin Chinese’ project (2017–
 25); and a recent grant to support the Dunhuang Buddhist Manuscripts Research Project
 (DBMRP), which links with the International Dunhuang Project led by the British Library. This
 fund is managed by Dr Imre Galambos, who also has received US$240K grant from the Glorison
 Foundation. Dr John Nilsson-Wright was also awarded £1M by the Nippon Foundation for a
 Chatham House’s ‘UK-Japan Global Seminar Series’ (2013-19). In 2020, he received a five year
 (annually renewable) grant of £75K p.a. from the Korea Foundation and the Yeosijae (Future
 Consensus Institute) to fund a series of research initiatives focusing on UK-ROK relations and
 the international relations of the Korean Peninsula, which he will direct as the inaugural Korea
 Foundation-Chatham House Korea Fellow. He also has, since 2015, received support from the
 Korea Foundation to bring together Europe-wide early career East Asian specialists (The Korea
 Foundation-Chatham House Next Generation Programme). The Next Generation Programme for
 2020 is likely to be substantially expanded beyond the conventional policy and academic sphere.

 Physical infrastructure

 Before Covid-19, the Faculty buildings and facilities contributed significantly to the research
 environment for all FAMES colleagues. The FAMES building re-opened in late September 2020
 to the relief of colleagues for whom working at home was difficult. All academics have their own
 office space, with a desk, networked desktop computer, telephone and printer, as well as space
 for small group teaching. Before the pandemic, postdoctoral fellows funded through FAMES
 shared space in groups of two-to-three, each with their own desk, networked desktop computer,
 telephone and printer. The ground floor common room and the kitchen facilities were shared by
 all staff and students. Social distancing measures prevent that now, but we have put in place
 alternative outdoor and online socialising and hope to be able to resume more in-person indoor
 social interaction in the future.

 To safeguard our students, staff, and academics who do use the building, all staff have
 undergone a personal risk assessment before being allowed to return to the building. Everybody


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 must now use the NHS Covid-19 app when they enter the building and a proportion of students
 are tested weekly for Covid-19 so that we can isolate outbreaks quickly.

 The Faculty Library is a facility appreciated by all. Its service provision has been modified to take
 account of Health and Safety considerations during the pandemic. Likewise, some of the
 provisions made in response to research student requests for improved work and social space
 have been temporarily modified. Work carrels, break-out spaces and coffee-making facilities are
 available for research students, postdocs and academic visitors where they remain safe to use.

 In June 2019, the Faculty adopted a new Environmental Policy that commits to an
 Environmental Plan, assessing environmental considerations in all activities, while aiming to
 significantly reduce our carbon footprint, increase sustainability and reduce pollution, and
 promote awareness of environmental issues. The University’s environmental accreditation
 scheme awarded the Faculty the Green Impact Bronze Award in 2018 and 2019.

 The IT infrastructures of the Faculty and the University are vital to supporting research, impact,
 knowledge exchange and outreach, as well as the career development of our researchers. All
 research staff have their own personal web page on the Faculty website, and PhD students are
 profiled on the site. The Faculty has benefitted from investment in its web pages in the
 assessment period, and the web pages underwent a complete redesign in 2019-20. The Faculty
 has its own Twitter account and Youtube channel. Many staff and research students maintain a
 professional social media presence, as well as blogs and other online activity. Our excellent IT
 infrastructure, including two rooms with a full AV set-up, including projectors, multiple webcams,
 audience and speaking microphones, and speakers, has allowed us to move many of our
 research activities and events online during the pandemic.

 Support for research dissemination, enhanced impact and open research activities

 Researchers at FAMES receive substantial institutional support with disseminating their
 research. The University of Cambridge provides extensive support with Open Access, and Open
 Access is embedded in local research policy and practice, for example by providing guidance to
 staff members on the use of online platforms such as Symplectic and Apollo to record and
 deposit our outputs. Significant financial and administrative support, and training, is provided by
 the University and the School for impact-related activity. All Cambridge staff who publish with
 Cambridge University Press have free Open Access publication offered to them.

 There are a diversity of approaches to enhancing impact, outreach and knowledge exchange. In
 Middle Eastern Studies, the significance of the Prince Alwaleed Centre for Islamic Studies work
 has been noted above. Besides the activities mentioned in our impact case studies, worth
 highlighting are the Centre’s publication series Narratives of Conversion and its project on
 Islamophobia and everyday hate crime in the UK which reported to the Ministry of Justice.

 In East Asia Studies, the China section produces a newsletter, distributed to our alumni through
 their Facebook page with 1300 followers. The China Research Seminar maintains a Twitter
 account with more than 1000 followers. Similarly, the Japan subject group has established a
 regular newsletter to disseminate the work and activity of the section to alumni/ae and the wider
 public, and the group’s Japan and the World initiative, supported by an active social media
 presence, has allowed faculty to reach a diverse community of interested supporters, helping to

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 facilitate student and faculty recruitment and wider media awareness of Faculty members’
 research.

 The Japan section has instituted a regular alumni/ae-student liaison day in which former
 students are invited to the faculty to discuss their post-graduation professional experience and
 provide advice and mentoring to our current students. This is complemented by an annual
 Japanese Studies alumni/ae day, typically in London, to which all alumni/ae and current students
 and staff are invited.

 Impact can also be enhanced not merely by reaching out to new audiences, but by refining our
 research and publication methods to make information more accessible. A small proportion of
 FAMES research is based on data management that can be meaningfully shared in the manner
 of scientific data. One important data set is that connected to the preservation of Neo-Aramaic
 languages, a cluster of projects led by Professor Geoffrey Khan which shares linguistic research
 data with local communities. Another set is Hans van de Ven’s database on China Trade History
 1850–1950. A recent initiative by our Hebrew and Semitics section is the newly established open
 access monograph series Semitic Languages and Cultures (Open Book Publishers), which is
 supported by Hebrew Trust funds.

 Library facilities

 The Arabic, Hebrew, Chinese, Japanese, and Korean collections at the University Library have
 few parallels in Europe or even the world. The Cairo Genizah Collection of medieval Jewish
 manuscripts is the world’s largest. The Chinese Collection is rich for Chinese dynastic history
 and Dunhuang manuscripts. The donation of the personal holdings of Professor Makoto Iokibe,
 held at the University Library, is a valuable resource for students studying the diplomatic history
 and politics of 20th- and 21st-century Japan, as is its unique collection of medieval Japanese
 manuscripts. The University Library also houses a collection of more than 2,000 fragile Sanskrit
 texts written on bark, including one dating from the 10th century. A recent project led by Faculty
 staff has digitized these so that they are widely available for research. For East Asian Studies,
 the Aoi Pavilion, a special wing of the University Library, is one of the best collections of Chinese
 and Japanese material in Europe. It also has extensive Korean holdings. The University Library
 also has large microfilm collections relevant to FAMES. University Library and HEFCE special
 grants have made it possible to acquire expensive special collections.

 Linguistically qualified, specialised librarians within the UL, including Kristin Williams (Japanese
 and Korean), Charles Aylmer (Chinese) and Yasmin Faghihi (Near and Middle Eastern
 Department) liaise closely with Faculty staff in their acquisitions, including new databases and
 online archives (such as newspapers and digitalised diplomatic records in vernacular languages)
 that facilitate the research of both faculty members and undergraduate and graduate students.
 Cooperation between FAMES colleagues and Library area specialists is close. Many of the
 librarians belong to the Faculty Research Groups. FAMES staff have written catalogues of
 University Library manuscript collections, such as Professor Geoffrey Khan’s catalogue of Arabic
 papyri in the Michaelides collection). The University Library is also the home of the Union
 Catalogue of Early Japanese Books in Europe project. Several staff at the Taylor-Schechter
 Genizah Research Unit are former doctoral students of FAMES and current FAMES staff work
 closely with this research unit on projects relating to the Genizah manuscripts in the University


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Library. Some of the resources in the Faculty Library and University Library are also supported
 by our subject-specific Trust Funds.

 Over the last few years, the University Library has undergone a transformation in the digital
 sphere with, in particular, its launch of the Cambridge Digital Library, a state-of-the-art platform
 for the display of the Library's manuscripts, rare books and other special collections. Currently, it
 is possible to search and view digital images and metadata for 13,000 items from the Cairo
 Genizah Collections of Cambridge University Library. In addition, the Library has begun to make
 available in the digital library other important Arabic, Hebrew and Persian manuscripts, including
 detailed descriptions of their content and codicology. The University Library also subscribes to
 the increasingly important databases of archival documents in Chinese, English, and other
 languages as well the China Knowledge database on which all scholarly articles in China can be
 accessed.

 The Cambridge University Library manuscript collection of Persian and Arabic Manuscripts can
 now be searched and in some cases viewed online as a result of a joint project (FIHRIST) with
 the Bodleian Library in Oxford. Standards established for describing Middle Eastern manuscripts
 in FIHRIST facilitated a seamless integration of Middle Eastern source materials to the
 overarching digital library project. There is currently a collaborative project between FAMES (Dr
 Vincenzo Vergiani) and the University Library, funded by the AHRC, which is preparing
 catalogues, scholarly descriptions and digital images of 1,600 Sanskrit manuscripts in the
 University Library.

 The library network also includes the many departmental and college libraries, some of which
 have large Middle Eastern manuscript and book collections (such as Pembroke, Queens’ and
 Christ’s). Researchers can also benefit from the theological library of Tyndale House, the library
 of the Needham Institute with its unique collection on the history of Chinese science, the
 Fitzwilliam Museum, and the Ancient India and Iran Trust.

 The libraries mentioned above have made enormous efforts to reorganise their services for
 Covid-19, with book collection and scanning services being greatly expanded, and an even
 greater emphasis on the acquisition of outstanding online resources. In particular, the rapid and
 effective response of the University Library to the pandemic has been tremendously helpful. The
 Library made available online a vast number of new books and articles as well as research and
 archival databases. FAMES contributed to this development for instance by facilitating the
 inclusion of the Egyptian newspaper Al-Ahram (including all back issues), which is a significant
 asset for researchers working on the modern Arab world. The University Library has also
 introduced a ‘click and collect’ service for its non-digital holdings.




                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 During the assessment period, FAMES had wide-ranging research partnerships and
 collaborations within the University of Cambridge, with UK and EU universities, and with
 universities beyond Europe, including in the regions that FAMES scholars research (see below).
 In the previous sections, we have already touched upon some of these. In addition, our
 researchers have engaged with the heritage sector nationally and internationally and with media
 organisations around the world. A wide array of government agencies and NGOs in the UK, the
 EU and further afield have been beneficiaries of FAMES research.

 The following are a selection of our research collaborations locally and internationally:

 1. Dr Imre Galambos has obtained funding from sources across Asia for projects on manuscript
 studies and codicology in collaboration with the British Museum, Beijing Normal University, and
 Lanzhou University incorporating scholars from China, Thailand, Taiwan and across Southeast
 Asia. These projects have led to a series of workshops, conferences, and lecture series in
 Cambridge, Hamburg, Ghent, Mount Wutai in China, Renmin University in China, and the
 Dharma Drum Institute in Taiwan. Galambos has turned Cambridge into a world centre for
 Dunhuang manuscript studies.

 2. Professor Barak Kushner has used his five-year ERC funded project on war crime tribunals in
 Asia to establish deep links with Jiaotong University in China, Kyoto University in Taiwan, the
 National Cheng-chi University in Taipei, and Heidelberg University in Germany. This has led to
 eight workshops and conferences, articles, and – so far – four books and a close-knit network of
 more than 18 researchers around the globe, of whom ten have been formally connected to
 Professor Kushner’s project as postdoctoral co-workers or graduate students.

 3. Dr Ben Outhwaite of our Genizah Project has collaborated with scholars at the University of
 Pennsylvania, Orot Israel College, Professor Judith Schlanger at Hebrew University, and i-Link
 action. These collaborations have led to three conferences and have made an impact well
 beyond scholarly circles, as Dr Outhwaite’s Impact Case Study ‘Discarded History in the Cairo
 Genizah’ demonstrates.

 4. Dr Paul Anderson is the Cambridge PI of an ERC project headed by Professor Magnus
 Marsden (Sussex University) and also participates in the CNRS-funded Circomo project on the
 circulation of commodities in the Middle East. The first project has taken Dr Anderson, a
 contemporary Middle East specialist, to Yiwu city in China to lecture to Chinese policy makers.

 5. Dr Laura Moretti runs a summer school in collaboration with Nishokagusha University of
 Japan in early modern palaeography that has trained 250 students.

 6. Professor Khaled Fahmy’s and Dr Andrew Marsham’s University-wide Middle Eastern Studies
 reading groups, mentioned before, have brought more than 70 Cambridge-based scholars into
 dialogue for the first time. The groups have proven an effective way to stimulate new work.



                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These are just six of around 50 national and international collaborations. Many other colleagues
 than those mentioned above have been involved in ERC projects, including Dr Nathaniel Miller
 (‘Qur’anic Commentary: An Integrative Paradigm’ and ‘Analytic Database of Arabic Poetry’) and
 Dr Andrew Marsham (‘The Early Islamic Empire at Work’). Other collaborations include Dr
 Michael Rand’s long-term joint project with Professor Shulamit Elizur at the Hebrew University,
 Israel, on the liturgical poems of El’azar be-Rabbi Qillir. Professor Hans van de Ven collaborated
 with the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, the Modern History Institute of the Academia
 Sinica, and Keio University, Japan, in joint research on China’s War of Resistance. This
 collaboration brings historians of the Sino-Japanese War together every two or three years and
 has so far produced five conference volumes. Dr Andrew Marsham led the 2014–16 AHRC
 research network on ‘The Early Islamic World,’ which brought together scholars from the USA,
 Europe and the UK. Professor James Montgomery works with NYU Abu Dhabi to produce high
 quality bilingual Arabic-English editions of Classical Arabic literature in the Library of Arabic
 Literature. In response to the current global pandemic, some of the major lecture and seminar
 series at the Faculty were moved online. These have proved to have a huge geographical reach,
 with one lecture in the Centre for Islamic Studies lecture series in May and June reaching more
 than 250 audience members on at least four continents. Dr Imre Galambos’s Dunhuang Seminar
 now has a large, international audience.

 Of the 22 ongoing collaborations within the University, Dr Steger's participation in the UKRI-
 funded ‘Circular economy approaches to eliminate plastic waste’ is a prime example. It is
 supported by a grant of £1M and she works closely with partner CoIs in Chemistry, Materials
 Science, the Judge Business School, and Zoology. Two postdoctoral researchers provide
 research assistance and participate in the teaching of introductory anthropology seminars, thus
 training them in academic administration. Dr Boping Yuan’s project on L2 Mandarin Chinese is
 part of an inter-departmental research programme called ‘Multilingualism: Empowering
 Individuals and Transforming Societies.’

 As to collaborations with non-University scholarly institutions, we have already mentioned the
 Needham Institute and the Skilliter Centre for Ottoman History at Newnham College. There is
 also the Woolf Institute for the study or relations between Jews, Christian, and Muslims. The
 Director of the Skilliter Centre, Dr Kate Fleet, teaches undergraduate courses in FAMES and
 supervises PhD students. Woolf Institute staff are affiliated formally to FAMES, contribute to our
 graduate teaching programme, and hold a seminar in our building. Dr Christine van Ruymbeke is
 a Trustee and the Honorary Secretary of the Ancient India and Iran Trust. Professor Roel
 Sterckx serves on the Management Committee of the Needham Institute. Many of our Chinese
 Studies staff participate in the Institute’s Friday afternoon text reading group. There are also
 groups such as the Cambridge Forum for Jewish Studies, the Cambridge Central Asia Forum,
 and the Cambridge Endangered Languages and Cultures Group, each of which organizes
 research symposia bringing together staff, postdoctoral researchers and graduates and other
 research-related activities from across Cambridge, including FAMES. Such activities are
 reflected in the quality of our outputs in this area, as shown for instance by the award of the
 Levenson Prize to Professor Kushner’s book on post-war Japan.

 FAMES staff have made their knowledge available to museums. Professor Adolphson has acted
 as consultant for the British Museum, as has Dr Outhwaite, who has also advised the Jewish
 Museum in London. Dr Michael Rand has advised The Bible Museum in New York. Some of us
 have also acted as film and documentary consultants. Professor Sterckx has advised the BBC

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and the Open University on a documentary about Confucius. Professor van de Ven did so for a
 three part documentary on the silver trade (Empire of Silver, Matchlight Productions) and
 ‘Shanghai 1937: Where World War Two Began,’ for which he was a “talking head”. It aired on
 the PBS network in the USA and is available on Netflix. Dr Christine van Ruymbeke participated
 in a programme on the Arabian nights for ‘Disney Alladin Online Education’ and Professor
 Bennison in a PBS series ‘Africa’s Great Civilizations.’ In terms of podcasts, Professor Hans van
 de Ven has contributed to Professor David Runciman’s ‘Talking Politics’, in episodes dealing
 with Hong Kong and with the history of the Chinese Communist Party. Dr Arthur Dudney
 contributed to a ‘The Provocateur Podcast’ on Persian as a lingua franca and Professor Sterckx
 on ‘The Han Dynasty’ for a podcast of The Historical Association

 Our Impact Case Studies highlight what we believe to be our most import impact activities. But
 impact is also the product of individual effort. The Sultan Qaboos Professor of Arabic, Khaled
 Fahmy, is a widely known public intellectual in the Middle East. His web portal on Middle Eastern
 politics and culture with material in English and Arabic (khaledfahmy.org) has a large following. It
 had nearly 280,000 unique visitors one year after its launch. Dr Nilsson-Wright, who acted as
 Head of Asia Programmes at the Chatham House think tank from 2014-16, continues to be
 active in track two diplomacy with respect to North Korean affairs, including by organizing events
 at Chatham House, supplying testimony to the UK parliament, and providing comment pieces to
 the media.

 FAMES’ researchers have engaged with a wide range of audiences beyond academia. Whilst
 Head of Chatham House’s East Asia Programme Dr John Nilsson-Wright produced a series of
 consultancy reports, op-eds, and policy statements, while speaking regularly to track two
 diplomacy events in the UK, Japan, and Korea. He also testified to parliament on North Korea.
 FAMES staff contributed regularly to television, radio, blogs, and podcast programmes.
 Professor Khaled Fahmy appears regularly on English- and Arabic language news programmes
 about the Middle East while his blog (Khaledfahmy.org) is hugely popular, as mentioned.
 Professor Amira Bennison is a regular presenter on BBC4’s ‘In Our Time,’ as are Professors
 Roel Sterckx and James Montgomery. Professor Barak Kushner has spent two weeks in
 Shanghai filming a documentary arising from his project on post-World War Two East Asia.
 Others who have contributed to radio programmes include Dr Arthur Dudney (NPR, on salt), Dr
 Andrew Marsham (Al Jazheera, ‘The Caliph’, BBC Radio Scotland, Sunnism and Shi’ism),
 Professor Geoffrey Khan (Al Arabiya, language), Dr Ben Outhwaite (BBC, Kitchen Cabinet). Dr
 Brigitte Steger’s essay ‘The Japanese art of (not) sleeping,’ was a BBC Future’s Best of 2016
 selection and received 1.5M unique browser hits. Professors Bennison, van de Ven, and
 Montgomery, and Drs Dudney and Nilsson-Wright participated in literary festivals in Edinburgh,
 New York, London, Hay-on-Wye and elsewhere.

 FAMES staff have engaged enthusiastically in widening participation and outreach. We run
 Sutton Trust summer schools for Japanese and Middle Eastern Studies and participate in all
 open days organized by the university. Those of us with a college appointment also participate in
 college open days. Colleagues regularly speak at schools and at the Oxbridge Conferences to
 promote language learning among secondary school students. As Deputy Chair of Melbourn
 Village College, Professor van de Ven successfully led a project to adopt Chinese as a
 mandatory language for all students. The first cohort is now preparing for their GCSE exams.




                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 FAMES researchers contributed significantly to the life of their disciplines. We have already
 referred to the numerous editorial boards, grant assessment committees, visiting committees,
 and advisory boards on which colleagues serve. Below following a few examples: Professor
 Hans van de Ven serves on the 2020 RAE steering committee of Hong Kong’s Universities
 Grant Council. Dr Imre Galambosis Secretary for the European Association for the Study of
 Chinese Manuscripts (2012–) and Associate Member at the Centre de Recherches sur les
 Civilisations de l'Asie Orientale, CNRS (2011–). Dr Laura Moretti is Secretary of the European
 Association of Japanese Studies. Dr Brigitte Steger served as Secretary of the Japan
 Anthropology Workshop. Dr Eivind Kahrs acted as Honorary Secretary, Director and Member of
 Council of the Pali Text Society (1994–). Professor Charles Melville served as Chair of the
 Research Committee of the British Institute for Persian Studies (2008), as a member of the
 Academic Council of the Iran Heritage Foundation (2008–), and as member of the Islamic
 Manuscript Association (TIMA) (2008–). Professor James Montgomery was the UK
 Representative to the Union Europeenne des Arabisants et Islamisants. Dr Laura Moretti sits on
 the Steering Committee of the University’s Centre for Visual Arts. Dr Boping Yuan served on the
 executive committee of the International Society for Chinese Language Teaching (2008–). He
 also is Advisor to the Singapore Centre of Chinese Language, and the British Chinese Language
 Teaching Association. As Fellows of the British Academy, Professors Roel Sterckx, Geoffrey
 Khan, Khaled Fahmy, and Hans van de Ven participate in its grant assessment processes and
 its efforts to promote the arts and the humanities.

 Colleagues are sought out for prestigious lectures around the world. Professor Khaled Fahmy
 gave the keynote lecture at the British Institute for Middle Eastern Studies (BRISMES) in 2018
 and the British Association for Islamic Studies (BRAIS) in 2019; Professor Geoffrey Khan gave
 the Carlo Landberg Lecture in 2017 and his Ullendorf Memorial Lecture at the University of
 Oxford in 2018. Professor Michael Adolphson gave the 2018 Ishibashi Foundation keynote
 lecture. Dr Andrew Marsham gave the keynote presentation at the 2015 Society for the Medieval
 Mediterranean Conference. Professor Hans van de Ven represented Europe at the centenary
 commemorations of the outbreak of the May Fourth Movement of 1919 at Peking University,
 delivered the Chen Kewen Lectures at the Chinese University of Hong Kong in 2019, and was
 scheduled in 2020 to give the ‘Public Lectures on History and Business at the Hong Kong Public
 Library’. Covid-19 has put this on hold.

 In looking back over the assessment period, we believe that, thanks to the hard work of
 colleagues, we have been able to pursue our strategy with energy and that it has been effective.
 Our research culture has become far more intensive, our postgraduate programmes are thriving,
 and we continue to produce internationally sought-after PhDs. We now have a prominent place
 in the School especially in its Global Humanities Initiative. We have been able to retain what
 made FAMES unique in the past, including combining modern and pre-modern studies, while
 also positioning ourselves to exploit and contribute to new trends, both educationally and
 scholarly. We have been successful in acquiring grants and use them to good effect. We have
 developed a wide range of impact activities. The pandemic has accelerated developments that
 were already beginning to transform our research lives, especially a much better use of the
 possibilities of online research and collaboration. We look back with a sense of achievement and
 to the future with real optimism.



                                                                                          Page 20
