Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of the West of Scotland
 Unit of Assessment: 12: Engineering
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and Structure of Research
 In this REF period, engineering research has been structured within the Institute of Engineer-
 ing & Energy Technologies (IEET), Construction Innovation and Built Environment Research
 Group (CIBER), and the Institute for Thin Films, Sensors and Imaging (ITFSI). The UWS
 engineering research community engages in interdisciplinary research, focusing on world-
 class contributions to:
      Standardisation (influencing the development of new standards on FM technology;
         ISO 410016),
      Commercialisation of research (product development research in support of our spin-
         outs across UOAs),
      Knowledge exchange (significant share of the UK’s fastest-growing portfolio of
         Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP))

 Engineering at the University of the West of Scotland (UWS) resides within the School of
 Computing, Engineering and Physical Sciences (CEPS). The School, formed in 2018 from
 the merger of two previous Schools, synergistically bringing together staff in Divisions of En-
 gineering and Physical Sciences. Specifically, this now includes research in aerospace engi-
 neering, chemical engineering, civil engineering, construction management and education,
 energy, manufacturing/remanufacturing, project/quality management, rapid prototyping, ro-
 botics/automation, smart asset management, and thin film material science and applications.

 1.2 Research objectives: past and current
 1.2.1 Current REF period: Review of REF2014 objectives
 The key objectives in REF2014 were to:
       Increase the volume, quality and impact of research;
       Improve international reach and significance beyond academia and for the benefit of
         society.
 We have achieved all of these objectives during this REF period, with several external awards
 for the translation of our research into world-leading innovations. In addition, in this period,
 staff have developed two flagship Graduate Apprenticeships Programmes, funded by Skills
 Development Scotland (SDS) in Civil Engineering, and Engineering, Design & Manufacture,
 to the total award value of GBP5,269,909.
 Volume, quality and impact of research: In REF2021 submission, we return 34 staff, rep-
 resenting 90% of eligible Category A staff, against the REF2014 submission, which included
 13 staff with ten from Engineering and 3 from Nuclear Physics. Nuclear Physics research has
 since expanded and UWS is submitting Physics separately in the REF2021 submission. Since
 2014, notwithstanding the separate Physics submission, UOA12 has produced approximately
 300 high-quality peer reviewed outputs during the submission period and therefore increased
 research activity significantly. This is the result of a strategic and continuing investment in
 Engineering and a supportive staffing recruitment policy giving priority to research activity. In
 the current assessment period, 41 research students have been supported with 23 success-
 fully completed (15 submitted to REF4a). Compared with the previous REF assessment pe-
 riod where eight completions in General Engineering (which included Nuclear Physics) were
 recorded, this demonstrates a significant improvement in supervisory capacity (concomitant
 increase in research active staff). This has been a key element in increasing output volume
 and the achievement of the unit’s strategic aims.

 Improve international reach and significance: World-class research across Engineering
 has underpinned award winning Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP), standardisation and
 spin-out activities, significantly exceeding the original objectives in REF2014. This has in-
 cluded the multiple-award-winning Novosound Ltd., KTP project with Phoenix Instinct
 Ltd., the winner of the global Toyota Mobility Unlimited Challenge, receiving USD1,000,000


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (GBP736,000) to further develop their intelligent ultra-light carbon fibre wheelchair. Engineer-
 ing staff are now engaged in 24 KTP projects nationally and internationally (including 1 man-
 agement KTPs) and significantly contribute to UWS attaining the fastest growing Higher Ed-
 ucation Institution (HEI) by number and volume of KTPs. Most recently, jointly with Interna-
 tional Islamic University (Islamabad, Pakistan), we have successfully secured funding under
 the Innovative and Collaborative Research Partnerships Grants (Pakistan UK Education
 Gateway with British Council) on advanced energy harvesters and energy storage devices for
 self-powered flexible energy systems.

 1.2.3 Strategy for the next five years
 Vision: Engineering divisions lead and engage in globally-impactful research in support of
 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDG), achieving this through knowledge
 exchange, commercialisation and leading-edge education. Our research groupings (IEET,
 CIBER and ITFSI) will live the vision by boosting their activity across the substantially inter-
 linked themes: (1) Materials and mechanics, (2) Energy and environment, (3) Construction
 and built environment, and (4) Engineering process management. Our vision and the key
 themes demonstrate commitment to the UWS Strategy 2025 and are closely aligned to Scot-
 tish and UK government strategic priorities, and Horizon Europe mission areas.

 Strategy: Considering our recent successes, our research strategy is to target larger projects
 (approximately GBP500,000), increase research outputs of the highest quality and develop
 impactful collaborative partnerships at all levels. Specific objectives for the next five years are:
     to increase world-class signature research where we are sector leaders across all re-
        search groupings;
     to boost recruitment and increase our postgraduate research community to 120 PhD
        students by 2025;
     to develop significant new international research alliances through large interdiscipli-
        nary consortia via UKRI, Horizon Europe and bilateral funding schemes;
     to expand exemplary academia-industry research collaboration, translating into world-
        class knowledge exchange and continuous professional development;
     to expand our engagement and involvement in collaborative initiatives and partner-
        ships in Scotland, UK and internationally;
     to translate developed signature research capabilities into flagship industry-leading
        education programmes across all areas of Engineering.

 1.3. Achievement of Impact
 Engineering at UWS has a long tradition of applied research through model collaborations
 with industry and a richness in knowledge exchange activities. Increasing the translation of
 research output to impact through industrial collaboration has thus been at the heart of our
 ability to achieve impact. Another aspect to impact realisation is the synergy between different
 areas of expertise. The strategy encourages the development of interdisciplinary broad-based
 and resilient solutions to real-world grand research challenges. The University actively en-
 courages interdisciplinary collaboration. As such, the emphasis on research activities has
 evolved to make the participation of industry stakeholders a matter of day-to-day activities.
 This has further facilitated our ability to rapidly involve stakeholders at the inception of any
 emerging research activity. The University is committed to addressing UN SDGs, in which a
 global sphere of influence opens allowing more areas of research to target potential impacts
 such as addressing climate change and cultural heritage, renewable energy technologies,
 sensors for better mitigation efforts in infrastructure and monitoring, water purification.

 1.3.1 Impact Case Studies and Impact Approach
 The strategic impact approach includes KTPs, the creation of spin-outs along with other uni-
 versity and externally supported initiatives to facilitate collaboration with the private and public
 sectors. The unit currently has had 24 KTPs, in the areas of built asset management, sensor
 development, robotics, mechanical engineering and manufacturing. These translate world-



                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 class research and facilitate direct economic and environmental impact within external organ-
 isations. Short lines of communication in the School encourage and facilitate cross-UOA col-
 laboration as exemplified in our Impact Case Studies (ICS) with links to UOA9 and UOA11.

 For the built asset management (CIBER) ICS, there is a natural need for interdisciplinary
 research across the academic divisions of the School. This has enabled individual expertise
 to be interwoven into impact-generating internal consortia, resulting in innovative solutions to
 major societal challenges (i.e., sustainable built environment). The same internal consortia-
 forming approach has been applied across all ICS’ and impact generation in general. The
 case study in rapid prototyping for manufacturing includes fundamental research in both re-
 search Institutes (IEET, ITFSI), developing our capacity has led to applications involving
 highly innovative prototypes and process development with impact in environmental, eco-
 nomic and health (See Section 3). The disruptive piezoelectric thin film technology ICS, on
 the other hand, has benefitted from seamless collaboration between staff in UOA9 and
 UOA12, enabled through a truly interdisciplinary nature of ITFSI. These non-linear routes to
 impact are a norm within UOA12 and the emerging research on advanced energy harvesting
 and storage devices, hydrogen along with our significant involvement in the regional economic
 partnerships are key to sustainable impact generation for the future (e.g., staff directly in-
 volved in Ayrshire Economic Partnership, Lanarkshire Economic Forum and Consortium on
 Applied Research and Professional Education - CARPE).

 1.4 Interdisciplinary Research
 Interdisciplinarity is inherent in the research within the engineering disciplines. Internal and
 external collaboration is evidenced in the outputs presented, and in our ICS’. Staff are also
 active in interdisciplinary work across the university and externally with industrial and aca-
 demic partners both nationally and internationally. It includes bringing together engineering,
 natural sciences, social sciences and humanities such as in the built cultural heritage
 (Hughes), built asset management (Konanahalli, Radosavljevic), and rapid prototyping
 (Vichare, Marzano). The University strategy looking forward to 2025 also drives, and will
 reward interdisciplinary working to address the challenges of the UN SDGs. Interdisciplinarity
 embedded in our research is encouraged through institutional support. For example, staff re-
 turned in the unit from the ITFSI (Garcia, Hutson, Song) benefitted from GBP700,000 invest-
 ment from the ‘Vice Principal GBP1,000,000 Fund for Research and Enterprise Excellence’.
 The scheme explicitly emphasised requirements around equality and diversity, the inclusion
 of Early Career Researchers (ECR). Interdisciplinary staff from three academic schools are
 involved in applied research in health, sport, built environment, astronomy and electronics are
 also included. A significant example of interdisciplinary research involves ITFSI staff (Gibson,
 Hutson, Song) also being involved in the development of novel coatings used in one of the
 world’s largest research consortia: Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory
 (LIGO).

 1.5 Open research environment
 Working with the University library, all research outputs, whether submitted for REF or not,
 are made available through the University’s research portal, PURE. We also aspire to ensur-
 ing the openness of research data and aim to meet the requirements of external funders even
 when not mandated, ensuring research projects have data management plans in place. With
 a high proportion of KTP projects, data management arrangements are also cognisant of
 commercial sensitivities. As standard, the University has put in place resources and support
 for compliance with the REF Open Access (OA) policy, via centralised Research Services and
 the University Library. Since 2016 the requirement for OA compliance has been communi-
 cated to staff within the unit, and OA routes to publication are favoured and supported by the
 School. This has included funding publication processing charges and guidance on the most
 appropriate OA route. An increasing number of outputs is being published Gold open access,
 thanks to the transformative agreements the UWS Library has signed with numerous publish-
 ers.

 1.6 Research Integrity

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University publishes a code of ethics; embodied operationally in a University Ethics Com-
 mittee (UEC), reporting to Senate. School-level ethics committees are responsible for the de-
 velopment and embedding of a culture of ethics for research activities. It is mandated that all
 research activity must be scrutinised for ethical dimensions and where required subjected to
 ethical approval processes. The work of the submitting unit is overseen by its relevant school
 committee (Chaired by Hughes), which scrutinises activity where required, overseen by the
 UEC to ensure consistency across the whole university. With regard to professional frame-
 works, working within the oversight of the various institutes for engineering (of which many
 staff are members), we are held to high standards of professional conduct and integrity. This
 is borne out through the professional institutions’ accreditation of our UG and PGT pro-
 grammes, which incorporate significant elements of research-informed teaching, and student
 dissertation work. The University also fully supports adherence to the concordat on research
 integrity and open data, and is also a signatory of the Declaration on Research Assessment
 (DORA).

 2. People
 Staff recruitment and development strategies in the School take the lead from the values ad-
 vanced across the University in the Corporate Strategy. The University is committed to provid-
 ing a working environment designed to ensure openness, equality of opportunity and fairness
 in recruitment and staff development.

 2.1 Staff Recruitment Strategy
 Engineering has been transformed during this REF period with a goal to develop leadership
 from within the unit on the basis of exceptional support for ECRs. Of the 34 staff in this sub-
 mission, there is one Professor, four Readers, eight Senior Lecturers and twenty-one Lectur-
 ers. All are on full-time permanent research and teaching contracts, and nineteen are appoint-
 ments since the start of 2014. Eleven are ECRs (32% of the total) and eight are female (24%,
 including the Head of Division of Engineering (Cano), and a Reader and Deputy Lead for
 CIBER (Konanahalli). Since 2014, a further seven non-ECR staff have been appointed, two
 at Senior Lecturer, the remainder at Lecturer, one subsequently achieving promotion to
 Reader. The profile of staff is diverse, evidencing a global recruitment policy of the University
 that values and fosters a plural, inclusive, multicultural environment. Maintaining staff num-
 bers, and enhancing research and teaching provision, has been a priority in which staff are
 recruited to fulfil roles in programme provision, concomitant with proven ability and potential
 to meet the unit’s and institution’s objectives for increasing research activities within its cog-
 nate areas.

 The transformation has been a direct result of the constructive policy of recruitment that has
 led to the highest proportion of research active staff in Engineering in the history of the Uni-
 versity. A priority in recruitment is a combination of requirements for taught programme de-
 velopment, with preferred experience in industry essential for a positive student experience
 and stimulus for applied research development. We have also recruited early career academic
 staff from our own PhD students (Awotwe, Rodriquez Nunez).The strength of the unit is
 exemplified by the senior executive position (Radosavljevic, University’s Vice-Principal for
 Research, Innovation & Engagement).

 2.2 Staff Development Strategy
 Considering the successes so far and the substantial pool of ECRs and mid-career academ-
 ics, the School is committed to developing academic leadership internally as well as through
 recruitment at a Professorial level in areas of research aligned with aspirations in UWS Strat-
 egy 2025. Training and development is thus focused on developing abilities to: (1) lead inde-
 pendent research, (2) research grouping leadership, (3) manage projects, budgets and
 staff, and (4) to balance academic portfolio by maintaining world-class research alongside
 exceptional teaching.

 Staff activity is managed through quantitative activity planning and the University’s ‘My Con-
 tribution’ process. Research is a clearly identified activity aligned to the University’s objectives

                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and enabling plans. The minimum developmental time allowance of 10% is provided for re-
 search, and is in general far greater across the entire staff. This brings responsibility, related
 clearly to objective setting for publication, supervision, and funding applications. This ap-
 proach offers flexibility, and in many cases, time-based support for varying intensities of re-
 search activity. This acknowledgement of research activity is further enhanced by institutional
 facilitation, particularly for ECRs, for whom time for research is protected. The University pro-
 vides centralised development mechanisms and operates an open promotions scheme with
 research activity a key criterion for promotion. In the period, the Unit has seen a number of
 promotions: 4 to Readership, recognising research performance; and 3 staff promoted to Sen-
 ior Lecturer. The Staff Appreciation and Reward Scheme (STARS) was created specifically
 to recognise outstanding staff contribution that recognises contributions over and above the
 normal expectations, encompassing research and impact achievements (Radosavljevic, El-
 Hassan).

 Staff development opportunities within the School and the University are promoted proac-
 tively. New staff are required to enrol on the PGCert in Academic Practice offered by the UWS
 Academy. This programme incorporates research practice as well as research-informed
 teaching and learning. All staff undertake training courses in addition to those stated above,
 as identified by the ‘My Contribution’ process (e.g., Time Management, Risk Management,
 Impact Development). Staff have access to a training portal to manage personal training and
 includes a Development Toolkit offering a wide range of resources, guidance, and advice
 through short videos and podcasts.

 In line with the University’s staffing and equality practice and policy, the School facilitates a
 family-friendly option for extended leave such as career breaks and annual leave purchase.
 Staff can benefit from the Returners Scheme, which provides funding support to cover essen-
 tial teaching and research activities. Staff are also able to arrange for flexible working arrange-
 ments, job-share, and reduced hours contracts. The University emphasises the need to en-
 gage in useful, applied research activities. The Unit evidences ample active connections and
 opportunities for staff to engage in interactions between academia and industry, in the impact
 case studies that comprise this submission and in the 10+ KTPs. The University provides a
 centralised support for knowledge transfer activities and advice and information on commer-
 cial activities.

 2.3 Support for Early Career Researchers
 The profile of the Unit is intentionally developmental with a relatively large cohort of ECRs.
 This provides significant opportunities for ECRs to shape School research, develop signature
 research and leadership in emerging areas of strength. Staff development with mentoring of
 ECRs by experienced colleagues is formally established and normal practice. This is intended
 to form a foundation for the development of future research leaders, as part of succession
 planning. For example, ECRs are proactively involved in supervision of doctoral students
 while benefitting from co-supervision support from more established colleagues (i.e., applies
 to all UWS internally funded studentships, prioritising ECRs in adherence to Equality, Diversity
 and Inclusion (EDI) requirements).

 During this period 6 RAs have been recruited, in addition to nine KTP associates. The care
 and career development of RAs is managed through the same procedures as for permanent
 academic staff (see below). The academic skills of RAs are developed through a spectrum of
 academic activities (including teaching) and they are encouraged to think and act as inde-
 pendent researchers, taking the lead on publications and involvement in research bid prepa-
 rations.

 The University is also fully committed to implementing the UK Concordat to support the Career
 Development of Researchers and has embedded the principles of this in strategies to support
 staff and research students. The University subscribes to the Vitae researcher development
 programme, and has been the recipient of the EU HR Excellence in Research award, initially


                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in 2016, retained in 2020. ECRs can benefit further from training opportunities: the UWS Cru-
 cible, Grant Accelerator Programmes (9 of 11 ECRs in the submitting unit have participated
 in these - the remainder being recent appointments who will be encouraged to take ad-
 vantage), and mentoring schemes to assist with grant applications and supervisory skills. A
 university-wide Early Career Researcher Forum, now Staff Forum for Research was launched
 in June 2018 to bring together new researchers across the University to foster cross-school
 partnerships and build networks to encourage multi-disciplinary projects and funding bids. The
 GBP1,000,000 VP Fund for Research and Enterprise Excellence (mentioned above), estab-
 lished in 2017, offered targeted support for research activities, applications for which were
 contingent on ECR participation. One of our ICS’ originated with the research work of an ECR
 in ITFSI (for which Hughes, is a spinout company director), exemplifying the open pathway
 to development and reward that the Institution endorses. Additional key skills development
 support is offered routinely, in for example, project management, research student supervi-
 sion, in addition to mandatory coverage of health and safety, ethics and integrity, and equality
 and diversity training for all staff. These initiatives are also available to postdoctoral research-
 ers.

 2.4 Research students
 The structures for monitoring, training and support outlined here were put in place at the be-
 ginning of 2013 to improve completion rates. As related elsewhere (REF5a), there has been
 a concomitant improvement in completion rates and also outcomes such as student success
 in awards, and significantly, in student productivity as contributions to peer reviewed outputs.
 Postgraduate Research Community: In Academic Year 2020/21, the School of Computing
 Engineering and Physical Sciences, has been home to over 100 PGR students. Of these,
 currently 21 students are supervised or co-supervised by 15 staff in the submitting unit. During
 the period of assessment, 41 PGR students have been recruited with 23 completing (15 sub-
 mitted to REF4a). 11 staff members have been Lead Supervisors for these completing stu-
 dents. With eight completions prior to REF2014, this represents a considerable increase. Re-
 search students are a vital part of our community; one of our key objectives for the forthcoming
 period is to increase the community further. Five students are currently enrolled and co-su-
 pervised through established relationships with German Universities of Applied Sciences
 (e.g., Deggendorf, Hamburg, Leipzig, Mittweida). These vibrant postgraduate research part-
 nerships benefit from extensive facilities in partner institutions, industry-embedded research
 projects and joint supervisory arrangements. Through online community building, annual con-
 ferences and partner institutions developing UWS-compliant support for students, the stu-
 dents are an integral part of our wider research community.

 Recruitment and Progress Monitoring: We have consistently recruited high-quality post-
 graduate research students. Project opportunities in the School are promoted on its webpages
 and staff are also able to recruit doctoral students through their relationships with international
 research community and in response to direct online applications. To channel applications,
 staff profiles on our research portal indicate our expertise. The application process includes a
 formal interview prior to an offer to study being made. Appointment criteria are cognisant of
 requirements for equality, diversity and inclusivity and focus on commitment to the topic of
 research, previous academic performance and approach to research in general. Recruitment
 also takes place through specialist agencies. Depending on circumstances and for academi-
 cally outstanding applicants, the School offers studentships to cover part of the study costs.
 Most of our research students are self-funded but the University provides a number of stu-
 dentship opportunities: (1) fully funded doctoral studentships, distributed on a highly compet-
 itive basis for which the unit has benefited from 4 awards; (2) match-funded doctoral student-
 ships where sponsorship support of at least 30% comes from industry or another external
 body, including the public sector and (3) fully funded studentships pledged within letter of
 support for successful large grants funded by research councils or European Commission.
 Fully funded studentships are publicised on the University’s webpages and also through aca-
 demic networks and other web resources (e.g., findaphd.com), and allocated on a competitive
 basis following interview by the supervisory team.


                                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research students are supported in supervisory teams comprising of a Lead Supervisor, a
 Second, and sometimes an Additional Supervisor. At least one member of the supervisory
 team is expected to have supervised previously to completion; if the lead supervisor is inex-
 perienced, an experienced second supervisor is appointed to the team. In this way, staff re-
 ceive mentoring and direction in supervisory skills, to the benefit of the student, staff and the
 research project. Staff are allocated time in their activity plans for supervision. External advi-
 sors, from other HEIs, industry, civic or third sector organisations, are encouraged to ensure
 the relevance of the research to external interests and to allow for effective dissemination of
 results. Collaborative postgraduate research projects benefit from joint supervision between
 two partner institutions. A member of academic staff is also appointed as an Independent
 Assessor, to oversee progress and to authorise progression to PhD registration. The assessor
 is not part of the supervisory team and can be from a related or unrelated discipline. This has
 the effect of encouraging interdisciplinary thinking (and often future projects) by staff and stu-
 dents, and the use of clear language in communication.

 The School appoints PGR Student Coordinators who take academic responsibility for student
 issues, welfare and progress monitoring, approve and facilitates viva arrangements and act
 as intermediary with the UWS Doctoral College. The PGR coordinator is a critical role that sits
 on the School Board, the School Ethics Committee and the Doctoral College Board. Doctoral
 students’ academic progress is administered through the University’s Doctoral College which
 is responsible for enrolment and processes of assessment, delivered in cooperation with the
 academic schools. The University has adopted a centralised online system for research stu-
 dent monitoring and recording (MyPGR Platform; moving to SkillsForge in 2021). Reports are
 due at regular intervals (6 weeks, 6 months and annual in the first year and 6 months and
 annually thereafter), considered by an independent assessor, who is not part of the supervi-
 sory team. MyPGR Platform sets out milestones and reporting deadlines, and is facilitator of
 formal communication between the supervisory team, students, PGR coordinators and the
 Doctoral College. It also facilitates requests for modification of registration, such as interrup-
 tions to study and changes in supervisory teams, which are approved or otherwise by the
 School’s PGR coordinator and the Progress and Award Boards (PAB) on behalf of the Doc-
 toral College Board.

 Training: Rigorous monitoring and training have subsequently led to more than 90% of PGR
 students being within the maximum period of registration, significantly improving our comple-
 tion rates. Generic research skills, language and writing skills and continuous professional
 development are offered in a structured package of support for doctoral students, from the
 Doctoral College and the UWS Academy. Student-led induction events for new intakes, which
 incorporate an array of information sessions and training take place several times per year.
 Development support also exists for staff, in supervisory skills, assessor, and viva chair train-
 ing. Staff in the UWS Academy provide support for the development of the careers of PGR
 students, postdoctoral researchers and academic staff, which is supported also by the School
 and the submitting unit. The University organises an annual learning, teaching, and research
 conference, at which PGR students present posters or take part in a highly competitive ‘3
 minute thesis’ competition. Research students are encouraged to attend school research
 seminars, and to present where possible, and are expected to make a public presentation as
 part of their transition from MPhil to PhD registration. Where research is associated with the
 Energy Technology Partnership (ETP), Scottish Alliance for Geosciences, Environment and
 Society (SAGES), and Scottish Research Partnership in Engineering (SRPe) pooling, for ex-
 ample, funded places are available for students to attend Summer Schools, annual postgrad-
 uate conference and other training. A student in Civil Engineering was funded from such
 sources for international exchange work and hosting a workshop, won a best post-graduate
 student publication at the 2018 and 2019 SAGES Annual Science Meeting. All of the research
 pooling studentships benefit from joint supervision between a minimum of two collaborating
 institutions.

 2.7 Equality and diversity


                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Supporting and promoting equality and diversity is enshrined within the principles of the UWS
 strategy; “…an inclusive organisation that welcomes and values diversity”. A key part of this
 is the Institution’s outlook to be a global organisation, something that is reflected in the diver-
 sity of both our students and staff, and in the UWS Strategy 2025, focussing on the UN Sus-
 tainable Development Goals. The University has a long tradition and a high achievement in
 widening participation in higher education of students from deprived backgrounds. The Uni-
 versity holds an institutional Bronze Athena SWAN award, in which half the academic staff
 are female. UWS are also Stonewall Diversity Champions and are Disability Confident em-
 ployers.

 The submitting unit operates in this context with centralised support, from the University as a
 whole, and its host school, across staff activity in teaching and research. As research has
 increased in importance, becoming an integral academic pursuit for most staff in the submit-
 ting unit (90% of eligible staff), the implications for equality and diversity are addressed in
 relation also to research activity. In response to this context, the School appoints an Equality,
 Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Champion from the academic staff and convenes an Athena
 SWAN self-assessment team. This collates information on gender representation across the
 academic school from which this submitting unit is drawn. The group monitors PGR student
 recruitment, KTP and other research associates, academic staff recruitment and promotions,
 and draws up action plans to tackle deficiencies. Equality, diversity and inclusion training is
 mandatory for all staff. Female staff are also able to participate in a Women’s Leadership and
 Development Programme. According to the terms of the University’s REF2021 Code of Prac-
 tice all staff associated with the exercise must undergo equality training. There is a commit-
 ment in the code of practice to ensure cognisance of EDI in the delivery of this submission. A
 representative cross section of our staff in the unit (20/34) were involved in peer review for
 the selection of outputs for our submission, ensuring a diversity of perspectives.

 In the submitting unit, eight staff are female, representing 23% of the total. While this is below
 the Athena SWAN benchmark of 26%, this is a significant improvement, as the percentage
 was only 7% across both UOA13 and UOA15 in REF2014. Importantly, this includes the Head
 of Division of Engineering, a Reader and a Senior Lecturer. Staff in the unit are drawn from
 both divisions of Engineering and Physical Sciences. When considering the staff from Engi-
 neering alone the proportion of female staff increases to 28%. In terms of diversity of origin,
 67% of the unit’s staff are non-UK and 50% non-EU. This in summary demonstrates the unit’s
 in-practice commitment to diversity and equality in recruitment and appointment of staff.
 Amongst PGR students recruited in the assessment period, 79% have origins outside the EU,
 but only 8% were female implying that our recruitment efforts need to be further improved.

 The Unit’s commitment to Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity (EDI) is also demonstrated by
 staff involvement in outreach activities both within and outwith the University in support of
 inclusion of women and ethnic minorities in the STEM disciplines. For example, at EDI related
 conferences and workshops (“Tackling the Gender Gap Together”, “Improving Outcomes for
 Ethnic Minority Students in HE and FE”). Funding was also received from the Scottish Funding
 Council (SFC) for “Changing the landscape within Engineering and Physical Sciences (Equal-
 ity and Inclusion in industry, academia and research)” (Viza). Other research projects have
 also included an interdisciplinary work on raising the profile and example of historic female
 engineers (Kirk), and Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) and Royal Academy of En-
 gineering (RAEng) funding for development of manufacturing capacities amongst women in
 developing African economies (Viza). The University sponsors the Council of Ethnic Minority
 Voluntary Organisation’s (CEMVO) Race Impact Awards.

 The University actively promotes a culture of flexible working, supported across the School
 as part of our inclusive approach to well-being, family friendly and carer initiatives. The Unit
 recognised the need for remote working to meet various staff circumstance, even before the
 current COVID-19 precautions led to the entire staff cohort working essentially in a completely
 flexible manner. The University has a long record of individually supporting students and staff,


                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in all capacities and levels, with specific needs (e.g., caring responsibilities). The Unit’s pri-
 mary response to this, enacted through line management arrangements, is to facilitate an
 individual’s own arrangements for research and other responsibilities. This includes recognis-
 ing the need for as much flexibility as possible in response to considerations such as caring
 responsibilities, illness, and to facilitating work flexibility for colleagues with disabilities, and
 particularly for our staff who are parents. This primarily allows for working hours variations
 (patterns and amounts of hours) and special leave (including holiday purchase). Staff can also
 apply for our Returner’s Scheme if they have had a long term absence due to illness or preg-
 nancy and maternity. This provides funding to support staff get their research career back on
 track.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income and Funding Strategy
 Diversification of funding sources and activities has been the key institutional priority in this
 REF period. This has included UKRI, BEIS, SFC including Innovation Centres and research
 pools, third and public sectors, and the EU in addition to maintaining the currently high en-
 gagement through collaboration with industry through Knowledge Transfer Partnerships
 (KTPs), and further spin-outs.

 During the period of assessment, the submitting unit was in receipt of an external income of
 GBP1.85M. Of this sum, approximately GBP359K is attributable to staff from the ITFSI (Gar-
 cia, Hutson and Song), GBP88K to colleagues from chemistry (McHugh), and the balance
 to the remaining staff in IEET and CIBER. In the previous submission to UOA15 in REF2014
 Engineering staff won ~GBP630k worth of grants (excluding Nuclear Physics Group who are
 now returned to UOA9). Therefore, for the current submission there has been a notable in-
 crease in funding to Engineering subjects at UWS, compared with the previous period. Adding
 other sources of external income during this period (i.e., research, consultancy and commer-
 cial research-informed CPD delivery), the total funding won is GBP3.26M.

 UKRI funding has supported research during the assessment period on; hyperspectral cam-
 era sensor development (Hutson, NERC; Song, BBSRC), optoelectronic sensors for explo-
 sives detection (McHugh, EPSRC), laser manufacturing control (Kirk, STFC), Historic Built
 Environment- heritage science (Hughes, AHRC- Heritage Science Programme). In-kind facil-
 ities access support was also awarded in chemical engineering for work on supercapcitor
 electrodes (Mirzaeian, STFC ISIS beamtime RB2010730, RB1920450).

 Funding from charities includes from the Carnegie Trust, for research reducing thermal noise
 in gravitational waves detectors (Garcia), coatings for medical devices (Song), dynamics of
 long span bridges, and CFD (former staff Xia and Wu, respectively). Funds have also been
 obtained from charity sources for collaboration development activities, for example from the
 Royal Society, for an India-UK green construction seminar (Zhu), imaging and sensors (Gar-
 cia); research in fluid flow and heat transfer (Wu); the Royal Academy of Engineering for
 climate change impacts on cultural heritage (Hughes); action on diversity in engineering and
 capacity building of women’s enterprise in developing countries (Viza, several awards); his-
 tory of women in car manufacturing/design (Kirk). Funding from the British Council facilitated
 research on water purification (Altaee); an exchange with the Central Building Research In-
 stitute, India on nano-engineered cementitious binders (Zhu). Additional funding from the Brit-
 ish Council and the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan was secured in 2019, for re-
 search on self-charging energy storage (GBP250k, Garcia). In 2016 the RICS supported a
 project on Big Data in Facilities Management (Konanahalli), which underpins an impact case
 study and led to KTP funding. IAESTE funded student research on construction management
 (Abdel-Wahab).

 The largest source of income has been from government bodies, notably Innovate UK sup-
 porting Knowledge Transfer Projects (KTPs). The headline awarded amount, including current
 projects, is GBP4.8M. There are 24 active projects involving staff from various disciplines

                                                                                                    Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 within the unit (P/Co-Is: Docherty, Durrant, Konanahalli, Leslie, Marzano, Murmu, Obied,
 Rolland, Song, Vichare) with a further four completed projects in the period of assessment
 (Mirzaeian, McHugh, Olabi). Staff also act as Co-Is in projects managed outside the submit-
 ting unit, collaborating within the school with the Institute for Thin Films Sensors and Imaging
 (ITFSI), staff in the Division of Computing and in the School of Business and Creative Indus-
 tries through management KTPs.

 Additional government body support has been provided by SFC pooling initiatives for collab-
 oration development (e.g., SAGES, Hughes: climate change/cultural heritage; SRPe, Garcia:
 sensors). Funding has also been secured from SFC funded innovation centres, notably CEN-
 SIS for sensor research also in collaboration with our impact case study spin out Novosound
 (Garcia, D. Hughes, Hutson, Song). Radosavljevic benefitted from support for industrial
 collaboration on built asset life-cycle intelligence from Innovate UK (which contributes to an
 Impact Case Study); McHugh for thermal conductivity of powdered materials (in relation to
 explosives) from Cranfield University and the DSTL. Vichare received support from the Scot-
 tish Institute for Remanufacturing, for work on remanufacturing street lamp housings in col-
 laboration with industry (WEEE Scotland) and Glasgow City Council, work that underpins an
 impact case study.

 Industry collaboration activities also benefited from SFC funded Interface Innovation funds
 (11 awards), in addition to direct funding from industry for consultancy and international CPD
 delivery (22 projects, GBP234,000) where expertise and research in the unit is applied to
 solve real world industry problems and provide industry-relevant training. The Unit has been
 the executive lead (Radosavljevic) to establish the UK’s fastest growing and Scotland’s only
 HEI to lead CPD for the China’s State Administration of Foreign Experts Affairs (SAFEA;
 GBP1,200,000) Projects span from management consultancy to aeronautical, energy, envi-
 ronmental and coatings engineering, and the aforementioned remanufacturing capabilities.

 Funding from the EU was obtained for heritage science work on the development of multi-
 functional material treatments for historic buildings (Hughes EUR2,592,189, 7th FP, HERO-
 MAT), and the effects of fire on building stone at the Mackintosh Building at the Glasgow
 School of Art (Hughes, in-kind EUR25,000 EU IPERION CH-MOLAB). Both awards involved
 extensive international collaboration, and in the case of HEROMAT led to subsequent grant
 proposals. The MOLAB project is influencing decision making for the restoration of the Mack-
 intosh Building.

 The Unit’s funding will continue to focus on these sources, particularly for proposals by estab-
 lished senior staff, who have networks and collaborations to support large scale applications
 to the research councils, Innovate UK and the EU. We are committed to mentor, support and
 encourage, and facilitate ECRs to learn the skills to develop successful funding applications,
 for example, through the previously mentioned “Crucible” and “Grant Accelerator” pro-
 gramme. Pursuing and obtaining knowledge transfer funding is a key part of the Unit’s income
 strategy, to realise an increase in the amount of research activity, the number of outputs and
 the potential for commercialisation. A key objective is to secure increased future impact as a
 result of collaboration with industry. An example of this in-practice is one of the KTP projects
 recently awarded in collaboration with the spin-out Novosound, the subject of one of our im-
 pact case studies, supported by research from staff Garcia, Hutson and Song in the ITFSI.
 The increase and improvement in the research base (facilities, staff participation, output and
 impact) as a result of this strategy is intended to provide an underpinning to drive funding
 applications in more fundamental research. In this REF period, the Unit has also responded
 to calls for proposals to GCRF (Viza). The University’s strategic plan to address the UN Sus-
 tainable Development Goals (SDGs) aligns our research increasingly with the funding to ad-
 dress global challenges. Several of our research areas, for example remanufacturing, renew-
 able energy, hydrology, heritage science, and engineering management are already well
 aligned with specific SDGs. Given the current success in KTPs, diversity of funding sources
 and the developing capacity within the ECR staff profile the realistic income objective for the
 unit is to double external funding over the next REF period.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.2 Organisational Investment
 During the period of assessment laboratory facilities available to the unit have seen invest-
 ment of GBP643,000. This includes GBP315,000 for new laboratory equipment in support of:
 geotechnical research (shear, consolidation, triaxial tests), microscopy (a petrographic micro-
 scope), hydrology (flume construction and profiler), construction materials preparation and
 testing (mixers, destructive and non-destructive mechanical/physical testing), a FARO 3D la-
 ser scanner, manufacturing/prototyping (new CNC, metrology, 3-d printing, composites prep-
 aration), bioenergy research (distillation, combustion, paper beaters), and a DSC for chemical
 research work (with Cranfield University).

 Laboratory refurbishment has amounted to GBP246,000 invested, with an additional
 GBP80,000 on equipment repairs/maintenance. The laboratory space developed is in support
 of geotechnical research, construction materials, composites research, chemical engineering/
 renewable energy research and robotics/automation and includes our specialist nano/micro-
 mechanical nanoindentation facility. During the period of assessment, the University consoli-
 dated its laboratories for manufacturing and automotive engineering to one location meaning
 all engineering laboratories are now accessible at one campus, offering utilisation benefits
 and convenience. Following the consolidation, our brand new and award-winning
 GBP110,000 Lanarkshire campus now includes the state-of-the-art Advanced Laboratory
 for Manufacturing and Autonomous Digital Applications (ALMADA), which is jointly developed
 by CIBER (Radosavljevic) and the Division of Computing (UOA11, Riordan). It is currently
 a home to approximately GBP200,000 in equipment and infrastructure and is a home to
 UOA11 flagship EU-funded RAPID project (EUR4,997,133). The laboratory has been specif-
 ically developed as platform for interdisciplinary world-class research that spans across
 UOA11 and UOA12.

 This interdisciplinary nature of the unit can also be seen in cross-fertilisation with activities in
 ITFSI. As mentioned above ITFSI staff are submitted across UOAs 12 and 9 (Physics), de-
 pendent on disciplinary alignment of staff, and three staff contribute to the submitting unit
 (Garcia, Hutson and Song). ITFSI is notable for its strong performance in outputs, impact
 and its record in research income generation. Underpinning this research is a significant stra-
 tegic investment, from 2016, by the University of GBP700,000 (VP Fund), for laboratory re-
 sources (plus space refurbishment a further GBP500,000) which has resulted in a world-lead-
 ing infrastructure for thin film and sensor technology development. This strategic investment
 has levered a further headline amount of GBP2,400,000 of external research income to the
 ITFSI, of which some GBP359,000 awarded can be attributed within UOA12, associated with
 the three staff returned (Garcia). Projects in this area typically involve one or more industrial
 collaborators, aiming to ensure impact is realised from an early stage of research.

 3.3 Support staff and infrastructure for impact
 The Unit is supported by 6.4 FTE technical support staff dedicated to civil, mechanical and
 chemical engineering and is also amongst only 10% of UK HEIs with a female chief tech-
 nician. Research in ITFSI is further supported by 3.6 FTE technical support staff, including a
 specialist senior technician for SEM microscopy. Elsewhere in the School, the Unit can call
 on a dedicated administrative support post, dealing with research matters, including finance
 administration and PGR student issues. In addition to the physical infrastructure that facilitates
 research activity, discussed below, the support for research activity amongst the Unit’s staff
 is possible due to a supportive environment in terms of expectations of staff activity planning
 processes, that recognise, promote and reward research activity (Section 2), but is also due
 to an underpinning space and laboratory infrastructure. The following resource that is de-
 scribed has been utilised and is integral to the unit’s achievement of impact.

 The Unit is well served by approximately 2,500 m2 of dedicated civil engineering, manufactur-
 ing and chemical engineering laboratories. The laboratory space incorporates comprehensive
 materials testing facilities, including a strong wall and 200 te ESH testing machine, capable


                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of testing full-scale building elements and other components. This is complimented by capa-
 bility for variable scale mechanical testing from the macro to the nanoscale. This includes the
 first nanoindentation facility in academia in Scotland established by Zhu in the 1990s that
 has been utilised in research on a wide variety of materials including cementitious and carbon
 fibre composites for construction and aeronautical applications, and natural biomaterials. This
 is supported by a metrology laboratory and a fully equipped petrographic (for thin and polished
 sections) and metallurgical preparation workshop. The Nanoindenter G200 system was up-
 graded in 2015 to 2016 to permit state-of-the-art rapid testing. This greatly increases the rate
 of data acquisition and improves statistical outcomes of testing.

 To support mechanical engineering research, the Unit has a fully equipped fabrication work-
 shop, welding and assembly facility and rapid prototyping laboratories (design, scanning, 3D
 printing and CNC). The Unit also possesses a room-sized anechoic chamber. In the area of
 renewable energy research, we maintain a Biomass laboratory (anaerobic digestion, homog-
 enizer, Hollander beater, combustion gas analysers); an energy storage laboratory with envi-
 ronmental and vacuum ovens, environmental furnace with variable gas inputs and BET, for
 the preparation of porous gels and carbon. Furthermore, our facilities include a membrane
 separation laboratory for desalination and wastewater treatment.

 In a true spirit of interdisciplinarity, the unit has access to facilities in the ITFSI, that have been
 maintained and enhanced and are available for use in research - AFM, FE-SEM-EDS, Auger
 and Raman Spectroscopy, contact angle measurement and XRD, and more. In particular the
 SEM benefitted from approximately GBP60,000 investment in 2015 (EDX detector upgrade,
 new backscatter detector\chamber scope and stage controller, OXFORD control software).
 Investment in laboratory space also accompanies grant success, where facilities are required
 such as the lab refurbishment for an EPSRC project (McHugh). Across the School there are
 well equipped chemistry laboratories with standard analytical facilities, including the approxi-
 mate GBP600,000 investment in the new NMR and ICPMS, which is accessible to staff in the
 submitting unit.

 The success to date with KTP funding and the activity submitted in our ICSs, and in the wider
 impact of our research that is achieved in working with collaborators and stakeholders, is due
 in large part to the supportive environment described above, but also the focus of our infra-
 structure, that has been invested in to have benefits for generating impact. The infrastructure
 supporting impact is not only physical, but human and organisational. This is exemplified in
 our case study on product design and process development led by Vichare. In this, a multi-
 disciplinary approach was adopted that combined several areas of staff expertise across
 UOAs to realise impacts on the development of new concepts in manufacturing design and
 prototyping, but that also effectively translate to real world production and impact, in several
 projects. Key to this is a flexible unit structure to allow new teams to be incorporated rapidly,
 in this case bringing together product design and data management, process/work-cell design
 with work-study analysis, digital mock-up tools and environmental impact analysis. The phys-
 ical product mock-ups were possible using industry standard design software (CREO), CNC
 machines, workshop machining and metrology resources, 3D printing and injection moulding
 capabilities.

 This infrastructure was combined with skilled technical support without which the impact could
 not be realised. This inter/multidisciplinary approach has relied on several academic staff
 (Vichare, Marzano, Olabi), and cross-institutional collaboration, in this case with the ITFSI
 (Gibson, returned in UOA9). This led to impacts in health, coatings and remanufacturing (with
 stakeholders: Histocell, Helia Photonics Ltd, Shenghai JAVAC (China), WEEE Scotland Ltd,
 Glasgow City Council), and to further KTP projects. The industry-leading coatings technology
 at ITFSI Specialist infrastructure includes unique resources: RF and DC magnetron sputter-
 ing, electron-beam and thermal deposition, plasma assisted physical vapour deposition, mi-
 crowave assisted reactive sputtering, ion beam sputtering, hollow cathode plasma enhanced
 chemical vapour deposition and molecular beam epitaxy in addition to several characterisa-


                                                                                                    Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 tion methods previously mentioned. These resources have been extensively used in the de-
 velopment of new technologies and form a key element in UWS’s impact strategy. For exam-
 ple, ITFSI facilities have enabled the partnership with Glenrothes-based semi-conductor
 foundry Semefab Ltd that has used ITFSI novel thin film technology, leading to improved per-
 formance of infrared detectors embedded in non-contact thermometers. This has now led to
 a KTP application submitted in January 2021. Another example involves commercial exploi-
 tation of UWS research by Helia Photonics Ltd of patented plasma-assisted deposition tech-
 nology. This KTP was recognised in winning the Centre for Engineering Education and De-
 velopment’s (CEED) Knowledge Exchange Award 2020.

 3.4 In-Kind Benefits
 The Unit has been the beneficiary of multiple donations (approximately GBP200,000) for
 equipment from our Alumni including the purchase of concrete crusher, In addition, other do-
 nations have included bursaries and equipment for the area of colour science, technology and
 formulation chemistry, from the multinational company BASF, with which unit staff member
 McHugh has a collaborative relationship. The facilities donated include a gas chromatograph,
 HPLC, FT-IR, GCMS and a UV-Vis Spectrophotometer, together worth approximately
 GBP80,000. This equipment has been heavily utilised in both teaching and research by a
 number of colleagues across the unit’s host School. The school structure also permits access
 to a wide range of laboratory resources across divisions.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 The projects above clearly demonstrate that staff in the Unit participate in a full spectrum of
 external collaborative activity in support of research. We have become a major international
 player, contributing to the health of our disciplines as members of professional networks and
 societies, attend, present at and organise conferences in their respective fields. Staff are con-
 tributors in reviewing academic publications, research proposals, external evaluations, and
 acting as external doctoral examiners at numerous HEIs.

 4.1 Research Collaborations, Networks, Partnerships and Communities
 Scottish Research Pools and Innovation Centres: The research environment has been
 significantly enhanced by our membership in the SFC supported pools: ETP, SRPe and
 SAGES, and we have been the beneficiary of funding from all of these within the period of
 assessment. Staff and students have benefitted from involvement, PGR students from sup-
 port from the University’s Doctoral College in each and staff from pooling funding support, for
 proposal development (known as PEER) and networking/professional development (known
 as PECRE). In the areas of Civil Engineering and Construction the Unit is a member of the
 Construction Scotland Innovation Centre (CSIC, Konanahalli is an Innovation Champion). Our
 MSc programmes in Civil Engineering and in Construction Management have a 100% record
 in attracting fee support from the CSIC for dissertation research projects pursued in collabo-
 ration with industry partners. In relation to ITFSI, staff are involved with the Innovation Centre
 CENSIS. Colleagues in manufacturing have obtained support and worked with the Scottish
 Institute for Remanufacturing.

 National and International Partnerships and Networks: The Unit has collaborative agree-
 ments with external academic institutions for co-supervision of PGR students. Well-developed
 formal agreements and relationships exist with several German and Austrian Universities of
 Applied Sciences (e.g. Hochschule Mittweida,). Educational collaborations are also in place
 with the Rostov State University of Civil Engineering and with the Changchun Institute of
 Technology and in research with the Changchun University of Science and Technology. Staff
 in the Unit have collaborated with more than 60 UK and overseas academic institutions in
 research projects and subsequent publications. This reflects work developed both from activ-
 ity originating at UWS, but also a legacy of staff experience brought to the unit. It is a clear
 benefit to the Unit to have a diverse cohort of staff, and an open, internationalised recruitment
 policy. During this REF period, collaboration has occurred with the following universities: As-
 ton; Auckland; Bath; Beihang; Beijing Univ. of Aeronautics and Astronautics; Belgrade; Bru-
 nel; Cambridge, Changchun Institute of Technology; CNR Institute of Atmospheric Sciences

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Climate, Bologna; Coventry; Cranfield; Curtin Sarawak; Dalian; Darmstadt; De Montford;
 Dublin City; Durham; Ecole Nationale Polytechnique d’Alger; Ecole Polytechnique de Mon-
 treal; Edinburgh; Edinburgh Napier; Extremadura; Farahan; Gadjah Mada, Indonesia; Glas-
 gow Caledonian; Glasgow School of Art; Glasgow; Heriot Watt; Hertfordshire; Highlands and
 Islands; Hong Kong; Kazakh National Research Technical University; Kingston; Leicester;
 Liverpool John Moores; Loughborough; Malaga; Malta; Manchester; Maribor; Memorial, Can-
 ada; Naples; Newcastle (Australia); Nis, Serbia; Northern Artic Federal University, Russia;
 Northumbria; Nottingham; Novi Sad; NTNU; Queen’s Belfast; Reading; Sharjah (UAE); Shi-
 raz, Iran; Slovenian National Building and Civil Engineering Institute; South Wales; Stirling;
 Strathclyde; Surrey; Swansea; Trinity College Dublin; University College Dublin; Warwick;
 West of England; Wolverhampton; Wroclaw. In addition, collaboration has been established
 with international umbrella organisations for research, including the Central Building Research
 Institute, India; Eduardo Torroja Institute; Czech Academy of Sciences; Serbian Academy of
 Sciences and Arts; the Getty Conservation Institute and industry (>30 companies, including
 BAE Systems, BASF, QinetiQ and Spirit Aerosystems, and in addition those outlined in our
 ICSs). Further, we have collaboration with Historic Environment Scotland and the National
 Trust for Scotland. Staff in ITFSI, have a number of notable academic, industrial national and
 international collaborations. Foremost is the partnership with Glasgow University’s Institute
 for Gravitational Research and other UK and international academic partners. The ITFSI con-
 tribution is on optical coatings for use in detector apparatus. Together with Glasgow and
 Strathclyde Universities, ITFSI is a partner in a National Manufacturing Institute Scotland-
 sponsored project “Excellent Performance Optical Coatings” (GBP2,000,000). Collaborations
 with overseas universities include Changchun University of Science & Technology, Tong Ji,
 Fudan, Rochester Laboratory for Laser Energetics, Stanford; and in the UK: Glasgow, Strath-
 clyde, St Andrews, Lancaster, Birmingham and Cambridge. Industrial collaborators include
 Qioptiq, Teer Coatings, Helia Photonics, Wideblue, Gas Sensing Solutions, Novosound, Le-
 onardo, Thales, Integrated Graphene, Pyreos, Alphasense, Key FM, CST Global, Umicore
 Coating Services, Gooch & Housego (with which there is an equipment sharing agreement)
 and Rolls Royce.

 Professional Communities Nationally and Internationally: Staff are engaging with users,
 beneficiaries and communities nationally and internationally (from Historic Environment Scot-
 land to the International Organization for Standardization). Staff contribute to communities
 through numerous external advisory groups and organisational committees. The highlights
 are: (Hughes) International Advisory Committee, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Repub-
 lic, Institute of Theoretical and Applied Mechanics, Board of ICOMOS International Scientific
 Committee for Stone; (Konanahali) Scottish Future Trust: BIM 4 Academia Group; (Tennant)
 Cross Party Group in the Scottish Parliament on Construction; (McHugh) RSC Scotland Re-
 gional Committee; (Walker) Scottish Mathematical Council (treasurer) and Scottish Mathe-
 matics Support Network; (Radosavljevic) CARPE (Board member); Zhejiang (China)-UWS
 Innovation Base (Founder and Co-Chair); Energy Technology Partnership (Board member),
 Lanarkshire Economic Forum (Chair), Ayrshire Economic Partnership (member and Chair:
 Clean Growth Workstream), Universities Scotland Research and Knowledge Exchange Com-
 mittee (member). All staff are also active members of professional institutions and organisa-
 tions, including ASCE, Concrete Society, CIOB, Geological Society, IAENG, ICE, IChemE,
 ICOMOS, IEEE, IMMM, ISO, MIMA, RIBA, RILEM, RICS, RSC).

 4.2 Contribution to Economy and Society
 Our Impact Case Studies in rapid prototyping/remanufacturing, smart built asset management
 and ultrasound sensor commercialisation exemplify the Unit’s contributions to the economy
 and society, principally through increases in gross value added (GVA), environmental, eco-
 nomic and social benefits. As described above, key to the achievement of impact is our focus
 on knowledge exchange. Adding our involvement in KTP projects with Innovate UK assess-
 ment of GBP7.5 gross value added GVA for every GBP1 investment, we have directly con-
 tributed to the generation of >GBP18,000,000 GVA to the UK economy. Further examples
 of contributions to economic and social impact include: (1) Mirzaeian has developed produc-
 tion of controlled nanoporous gels/carbons for use as functional materials. This has led to new

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 carbons for battery and supercapacitor electrodes to make electrified transport more afforda-
 ble, electrodes for water electrolysis cells for on-site hydrogen generation and the design of
 new carbon electrodes and electrochemical cells for the recovery of metals from waste elec-
 tronics. Knowledge transfer has led to industrial process improvements and contributed to
 European policy recommendations for the increased recovery of materials from Waste from
 Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE). The results of this research are included in EU
 Policy and Infrastructure Recommendations reports. (2) ITFSI partners with Glenrothes-
 based semi-conductor foundry Semefab Ltd, working to improve performance of infrared de-
 tectors embedded in non-contact thermometers. This led to >12,000,000 detector chips be-
 ing ordered during the COVID-19 pandemic. With collaborator Helia Photonics Ltd the
 group exploited knowledge transfer in patented plasma-assisted deposition technology
 through a KTP that won the Centre for Engineering Education and Development Knowledge
 Exchange Award 2020. (3) Staff also engage in outreach activities, focussed on STEM en-
 gagement, Walker, (numerous mathematics-focussed STEM events for schools across Scot-
 land); Bae (“Gateway to Engineering”), McHugh (Wellcome/STFC, RSC). Conference host-
 ing (see below) has made an economic impact on the local economy of the University, ap-
 proximately at several GBP100,000.

 4.3 Wider Influence and Contributions
 Major editorial contributions: Staff serve on editorial boards (>10), as committee members
 and special edition editors for peer-reviewed journals, including: International Journal of Ar-
 chitectural Technology and Sustainability, Heritage (Hughes); International Journal of Civil
 Infrastructure, Sustainability, Journal of Innovative Engineering (Zhu); Energies (Mirzaeian);
 Energy (Olabi); Applied Sciences Journal, Organization, Technology and Management in
 Construction: an International Journal (Radosavljevic). On average each staff member
 serves on at least one conference scientific and/or organisational committee annually (>34 in
 total).

 Peer review of research outputs: Staff review for numerous international peer reviewed
 journals (>50), which among others include: InterAlia, Acta Crystallographica (IUCr), Ameri-
 can Institute of Physics (AIP), Applied Surface Science, Archaeometry, ASCE Journal of Ma-
 terials in Civil Engineering, Atmospheric Environment, Automation in Construction, Buildings,
 Journal of Building Construction and Planning Research, Bulletin of Engineering Geology and
 the Environment, Cement and Concrete Research, Chemical Communications (RSC), Chem-
 istry Society Reviews (RSC), Climate, Coatings, Construction and Building Materials, Con-
 struction Management and Economics, Dyes and Pigments, Engineering, Construction and
 Architectural Management, Environmental Earth Sciences, Heritage Science, Materials and
 Structures, Industry and Higher Education, International Newton Fellowship of Royal Society,
 Isotopes in Environmental & Health Studies, Journal Materials and Environmental Science,
 Journal of Construction Engineering and Management (ASCE), Journal of Cultural Heritage,
 Journal of Management in Engineering (ASCE), Journal of Materials Chemistry A (RSC),
 Journal of Materials Chemistry C (RSC), Journal of Physical Chemistry C (ACS), Journal of
 Purchasing and Supply Management, Journal of Performance of Constructed Facilities
 (ASCE), Journal of the Institute of Conservation, Materials and Structures, Nanotechnology
 (Nature), Optics Communications, Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics (RSC), Quarterly
 Journal of Engineering Geology and Hydrology, Radiocarbon, RSC Advances (RSC), Sen-
 sors, Studies in Conservation, Studies in Higher Education, TQM Journal, Ultrasonics, Journal
 of Zhejiang University-SCIENCE C.

 Peer review of research applications: Staff participate as reviewers for several funding
 bodies, including the UKRI (Hughes, Konanahalli, Radosavljevic, Song, Zhu), and also for
 overseas research bodies (Hughes: Belgian Science Policy Office, Science Centre Poland,
 Austrian Academy of Sciences Grants Panel, EU-ERC, Latvian State Education Agency; Ra-
 dosavljevic: EU, Croatian Science Foundation).

 Dissemination, prizes and awards: Staff have given in excess of 110 conference presenta-
 tions, >30 invited presentations, including several keynotes, during the period. The hosting of

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 conferences is actively encouraged with support coming from the School service delivery and
 the University support departments. Staff time allocation is permitted for this and the oppor-
 tunity is taken for the involvement of research students for networking and personal develop-
 ment. Examples in the assessment period include the 13th International Congress on the De-
 terioration and Conservation of Stone (Hughes, Chair 2016) and the 11th international con-
 ference on Sustainable Energy & Environmental Protection (Olabi, Chair 2018). Conference
 hosting brings raises the profile of the staff involved internationally, generates commercial
 income (in the assessment period approximately GBP100,000) and results in widely read
 publications including journal special issues and edited volumes. Hughes has been awarded
 a prestigious Getty Conservation Institute Guest Scholarship (2020, COVID-19-postponed to
 2022). Walker is a visiting research fellow at the University of South Wales. Bae is a visiting
 lecturer at Texas A&M University. Zhu is Visiting Professor at Changchun Institute of Tech-
 nology. Wrzesien is a Member International Advisory Panel, Malaysian Cold-formed Steel
 Institute. Cano was a visiting Professor at the University of Angers (2015).




                                                                                            Page 16
