Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Dundee (UoD)

 Unit of Assessment: UoA11 Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Unit Structure and Context
UoA11 research is structured as four clusters (each with a lead, underlined):
    • Argument Technology (ARG-tech) (Lawrence, Pease, Reed, Visser) focuses on
       theoretical and practical aspects of argumentation and artificial intelligence.
    • Computing Theory & Methodologies (CTM) (Edwards, Fiadeiro, Janjic) spans parallelism
       and data science, graph theory, and formal software system modelling and analysis.
    • Computer Vision & Image Processing (CVIP) (Magerand, Martin, McKenna, Trucco)
       develops and applies visual data analysis and machine learning for biomedical, space
       exploration, and vision applications.
    • Human-Centred Computing (HCC) (Crabb, Rough, Waller) research includes
       Augmentative & Alternative Communication (AAC) and User Experience (UX).

Together these form the Computing Sciences research theme, one of four overarching themes in
the School of Science and Engineering which spans UoA10, UoA11 and UoA12. Researchers can
affiliate with multiple clusters from across the University to facilitate inter-cluster working and build
capacity beyond the core disciplines.

The Unit’s vision to enable significant societal benefits through its research articulates clearly with
the University’s mission “to transform lives, locally and globally through the creation, sharing and
application of knowledge”. Unit staff have taken and will continue to take lead roles in research and
impact aligned with the University’s interdisciplinary themes, most obviously those of Innovating
Technology and Health and Wellbeing. The Unit benefits from interdisciplinary collaborations
across the University and beyond, embracing the institution’s strategic priority of embedding
interdisciplinarity to build a vibrant research culture that delivers impact.

1.2 Research Objectives and Plans during the Period
The Unit’s vision at REF2014 was to be a world-leading centre of research excellence in its areas
of specialisation, enabling societal benefits through research. REF2014 aims and plans were:

1. To develop critical mass in focused specialisms, driven by strong connections to research users.
It planned to grow sustainably, strengthening existing specialisms and cross-cluster synergies.
The Unit strengthened its specialisms in ARG-tech, CVIP, and HCC through recruitment of early
career Category A staff. Cross-cluster synergies were strengthened through joint EPSRC projects
between HCC and ARG-tech (BESiDE, £1.3M, 2013-17), and between HCC and CVIP (ACE-LP,
£1.0M, 2016-20). These clusters have strong connections to research users as exemplified by
those projects’ partners, and by user pools maintained by HCC (see 4.2). The CTM cluster was
formed to consolidate research in that area. The Unit saw 15% growth in Category A FTE.

2. To ensure stable research income from a diverse funding base.
Total research income was £11.45M. This was from 39 different sources including EPSRC, NERC,
BBSRC, EU, Space Agencies, BBC, Google, Microsoft, and CRUK (3.1). Mentoring helped
achieve grant success, e.g. Pease’s EPSRC First Grant.



                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3. To grow Postgraduate Researcher (PGR) numbers, increasing student staff ratio to 2:1 by
boosting international recruitment of high-quality candidates, leveraging research networks, new
agreements, and rolling recruitment.
There are currently 22 PGR students with primary supervisors in Computing and another 10 co-
supervised with other disciplines, a 2.3:1 ratio of supervisions to category A staff. PhD applications
are now triaged and managed on a continual basis by Computing’s PGR Lead. PhD funding was
sought through industry with funding provided by Toshiba, NIDEK Technologies Srl, and Optos plc.
during the period. Students were also funded by EPSRC, the Scottish Imaging Network
(SINAPSE), and the Scottish Informatics & Computer Science Alliance (SICSA) research pool.

4. To harness and build coherence through awareness raising and enhanced collaboration in areas
of local strength where there are natural synergies, e.g. Health Informatics, Clinical Imaging, Life
Sciences, Art & Design.
CVIP raised awareness through involvement in the Academic Health Science Partnership between
UoD and NHS Tayside, for example, leading to enhanced collaboration with the School of
Medicine aligned to the UoD themes of Health and Wellbeing and Innovating Technology. In health
informatics and imaging, CVIP has key roles (co-investigators, work package leaders, committee
members) in large and strategic projects, e.g., Health Data Research UK (HDR-UK, £4M first-
tranche funding, 2018), the £3.8M MRC/EPSRC PICTURES Programme Grant, the £7M NIHR
Global Health Unit Dundee-Chennai INSPIRED project, UoD’s Health Informatics Centre, and the
Scottish National Safe Haven project. An example of synergy with Life Sciences is the £1.3M MRC
project Dynamics of Fundamental Cellular Processes by Live Cell and Tissue Imaging.

5. To seek new high-value international partnerships with leading research institutes reflecting the
Unit’s research strengths, to encourage visits and exchanges with leading labs, and further raise
the Unit’s profile by organising/hosting conferences.
The Unit has been highly active in achieving these aims by (i) building collaborations with key
partners including the Universities of Cambridge, Edinburgh, UCL, Duke, Göttingen, Harvard, and
Twente, (ii) undertaking visits, e.g. to University of Konstanz (Reed, Senior Fellowship), University
of Göttingen, Isaac Newton Institute for Mathematical Sciences (Pease), Chinese Academy of
Sciences (Trucco), (iii) hosting research visits, e.g. from SICSA Distinguished Visiting Fellows,
and (iv) hosting meetings and organising conferences, e.g. European Conference on Computer
Vision general and poster Chairs (Trucco, McKenna), COMMA Co-Chair (Reed), ASSETS User
Experience Chair (Waller), Future of Assistive Technology Conference Invited Chair (Waller), and
Royal Society Science+ meeting Chair (Trucco).

6. To enhance monitoring, governance, and management of research and strategy.
These aspects have undergone major reorganisation and are now coordinated by the School
Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee, as described in 3.2. It oversees an Annual
Research Review of all aspects of the Unit’s research and impact.

Cluster-level plans stated at REF2014 were:

   o   ARG-tech aimed to contribute to cultural wellbeing by developing critical literacy through
       research in debate and argument, partnering with organisations such as the BBC.

As detailed in a REF Impact Case Study, the BBC commissioned ARG-tech to produce the
Evidence Toolkit, challenging young people to spot "fake news" and illustrating how to recognise
claims and evidence; founded upon the world’s first public deployment of argument mining, into
over 3000 schools, it has influenced UK and EU policy. Building on this foundation, ARG-tech

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
secured COVID-19 funding (ESRC, £94k to UoD) to tackle fake news around Coronavirus. It is
now partnering with the Universities of Konstanz and Göttingen on argument technology-based
interventions to augment and enhance deliberative democracy in partnership with Scottish and
German governments.

   o   CVIP aimed to emphasise biomedical image analysis with application to translational and
       stratified medicine, focusing on high-incidence conditions. Space research aimed to
       increase the number and value of missions to which its software is critical, as well as
       providing a near-Earth observation service consistently top-rated by NERC.

Renewed emphasis on biomedical image analysis led to strengthened interdisciplinary
collaborations in applied and translational research. Major projects investigating the role of retinal
and brain image analysis focused on high-incidence conditions such as vascular dementia
(EPSRC, £1.1M with UoD School of Medicine and University of Edinburgh), personalised medicine
for diabetes (NIHR, with UoD School of Medicine and Dr Mohan’s Speciality Diabetes Centres,
India), and profiling diabetic cardiomyopathy (contribution to £10M CARDIATEAM, EU Innovative
Medicines Initiative). Interdisciplinary initiatives included research on ophthalmology (NIDEK Co.
Ltd. Technologies grant), digital pathology (EPSRC studentship, with UoD Pathology), HDR-UK
(with UoD School of Medicine and University of Edinburgh), profiling lipoproteins linked to
cardiovascular disease (with University of St Andrews) and screening pathologies in the food
industry (BBSRC/Innovate UK with Newcastle University, Tulip Ltd., Hellenic Systems Ltd.). The
European Space Agency (ESA) continues to fund (€1m since 2014) the Unit’s research on its
Planet and Asteroid Natural Scene Generation Utility (PANGU), a tool for testing and developing
space navigation and guidance systems. Its impact is detailed in an Impact Case Study; it is critical
to multiple missions including the ESA ExoMars Rover and Surface Platform Mission, the ESA-
NASA Asteroid Impact and Deflection Assessment programme’s HERACLES mission, and the
ESA Phootprint mission. The Dundee Satellite Receiving Station provided its top-rated near-Earth
observation service with NERC funding until 2019.

   o   HCC aimed to expand and capitalise on its research in areas of high impact and national
       priority; its work on Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC) and Digital Social
       Inclusion impacting directly on social, cultural and physical wellbeing.

HCC’s reputation and high impact was nationally recognised with Waller receiving an OBE for
services to people with complex communication needs. Its AAC research received EPSRC funding
on the use of context to improve communication for users of voice output communication aids
(£1M with CVIP, University of Cambridge, and others). Capitalising on the Social Inclusion in the
Digital Economy hub with Newcastle University, HCC won further EPSRC funding, enabling
research into understanding wellbeing within care home environments (BESiDE, £1.3M with
Newcastle University, Balhousie Care Group, Heathfield Residential Home Ltd., Collective
Architecture Ltd., and BUPA). The group’s work aimed to impact accessibility through research into
colour identification systems for people with colour vision deficiency (ColourSpecs: £100k with
Norwegian University of Science and Technology); tools for accessible table discussion (Scottish
Funding Council, with Ideas for Ears); and accessible interaction techniques (Carnegie Trust, with
BBC R&D and Rochester Institute of Technology).

1.3 Research and Impact Objectives for the Next Five Years
The Unit will continue to compete effectively by focusing on excelling at research in its specific
areas of strength. Each of the Unit’s specialisms, as well as being internationally leading, should
be positioned to contribute in unique and important ways to collaborative research projects in its

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
area. Cluster research plans will continue to support vitality and sustainability of multiple areas of
impact (3.1), including PANGU space technology (CVIP) and argument technology in the public
sphere (ARG-tech), as detailed in the Impact Case Studies.

ARG-tech will apply its techniques to real-world applications of argumentation and AI in domains
such as healthcare, academic collaboration, intelligence & defence, law, and democracy. It will
deliver new foundational results in philosophy and linguistics (theoretical and computational), and
forge new deployments for both professional and general audiences.

CTM will address foundational, methodological, and architectural aspects of modern computing
systems, whose complexity arises from high levels of distribution and connectivity that can change
over time, bringing them closer to the dynamical systems found in, say, biological or social
systems. It will develop tools and methodologies for structured, formalised high-level programming
of massively parallel hardware, while addressing the pressing issues of performance versus
energy consumption (green computing) and application security for modern hardware systems.

HCC will leverage its track record in designing for diverse users and situations to understand and
address challenges that exist when people use technology to actively participate in society. Work
will focus on enabling digital participation with a focus on complex human limitation and equally
complex environmental considerations. HCC will increase multidisciplinary collaborations,
combining skills from researchers in computing, psychology, design, medicine, and business.

CVIP will collaborate to leverage big data from Scotland's national medical imaging archive to
develop new AI tools for disease diagnosis and risk prediction. CVIP will increase intra-School
collaboration with colleagues in Mathematical Sciences and Engineering & Physical Sciences. Its
space technology research will continue to focus on surface modelling and simulation for vision-
based guidance and navigation.

1.4 Facilitating Impact and Interdisciplinary Research
The Unit runs a seminar series with external speakers and encourages research visitors (4.1). It is
an active member of the Scottish Informatics & Computer Science Alliance (SICSA), a research
pool funded by the Scottish Funding Council comprising 14 computing ‘departments’ across
Scotland. It thus benefits from SICSA’s research themes, funding support, graduate academy
training activities and knowledge exchange events. For example, staff are encouraged to present
at the annual SICSA DemoFest, showcasing the best Computing research from Scotland’s
Universities to private and public sector organisations. Most of the Unit’s research involves
interdisciplinarity; researchers can affiliate with multiple research clusters in a way that is not tied to
discipline.

Strategic research retreats for staff and students, supported through the School’s Research Fund,
provide opportunities to engage in strategy refinement. For example, CVIP ran annual summer
workshops at a country hotel and winter workshops away from the Computing building over the
entire REF period, at which all cluster staff and students presented research and planned joint
working. ARG-tech’s annual retreat focuses on creative thinking around new problems; the 2017
edition led to successful application to Dstl/DASA for Dialogical Fingerprinting (£94k) in 2019. PhD
students and post-docs get involved in impact activities including award-winning public
engagement (see Black in 4.2) and industrial liaison (see Gemechu in 2.2), and a strategic aim is
to increase this further. The Unit encourages and facilitates public engagement as described in 4.2.



                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The School’s Associate Dean for Industrial Engagement provides leadership on engagement with
industrial partners and organisations, supporting its ambition to be a preferred partner in the
economic and social progress of the city, the region, and beyond. This includes creating and
growing partnerships, developing opportunities for industry-led research and consultancy, and
encouraging pathways for impact and commercialisation. The Unit works closely with UoD’s
Research and Innovation Services which provides advice on routes to impact, exploitation options,
and industry engagement and commercialisation.

The Unit convenes an Industrial Advisory Board whose roles include provision of a network of
contacts, assisting with research collaborations, and advising on commercialisation and impact
activities. Chaired by Drew Bryce (Bluebox Aviation Systems Ltd.), it has members from IBM,
NCR, ScotlandIS, Edesix, Contact Engine, and Circle IT. The Unit also engages with companies
involved in the School’s Graduate Apprenticeship work-based degree programmes, which include
a degree in software development.

1.5 Open Research Environment
Significant progress towards an open research environment has been made, leveraging UoD’s
Library and Learning Centre (LLC) and Discovery Repository to ensure open access compliance.
Standard practice for the Unit is to deposit all research publications, including those not in scope of
REF policy, in this repository. Staff serve on editorial boards of open access journals (4.4).

LLC advises on data management planning and compliance with funders’ open data policies.
Datasets arising from the Unit’s research have been published (with DOIs) as open data,
sometimes where this was not a requirement, e.g. 50 Salads for evaluation of activity recognition
algorithms, Recorded Observation in Care Homes from the BESiDE project, plant-soil data from
the Grow Observatory European citizen science project. HCC made workshop material and
software associated with ACM CHI publications available (CC BY-SA 4.0). All data published by
the Unit has been published using CC-BY licenses, facilitating re-use.

ARG-tech’s open infrastructure for hosting and managing argumentation datasets (AIFdb,
www.aifdb.org) has been used to develop corpora by teams in France, Germany, Poland, Spain,
Portugal, the Netherlands, Russia and the US. As a result it supports the world’s largest collection
of argumentation datasets. With metadata and permalink guarantees in place, the infrastructure
aims to mint its own DOIs. ARG-tech software includes the openly accessible Argument Mining
Framework (amf.arg.tech), argument translation and evaluation web services (ws.arg.tech), and
the world’s most widely used argument analysis tools: OVA (ova.arg.tech) with over 100,000 users
in 80 countries (Google analytics). Most components are released LGPL or CC-BY-SA, with
derivatives then developed, e.g. of OVA at University of Trier and of AIFdb at Dstl.

1.6 Research integrity
The School has a Research Integrity Lead, supported by a Deputy. They are responsible for
promoting a culture of research integrity in the School and provide (i) an independent point of
contact for staff and research students outside their immediate research environment, (ii) impartial
advice on responsible conduct of research, and (iii) advice on making misconduct allegations.
Research staff and students are provided with online video-based training in Responsible and
Ethical Practice in Research and Publication which is mandatory for research students and new
supervisors. Additional workshops from an external trainer are provided by UoD’s Organisational
and Professional Development (OPD) unit. Ethical review and approval of non-clinical research
involving human participants proposed by staff and students is overseen by the School Research


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Ethics Committee. It reports to the University Research Ethics Committee, which provides
oversight, monitoring and guidance.

 2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
In addition to the 13.5 FTE returned staff, UoA11’s wider research community includes research
assistants, research students, technical support, and staff who engage with research to inform
teaching.

Computing is committed to recruiting researchers with outstanding research track records and
potential for achievement at the highest level. The Unit recruited from high profile international
institutions such as ETH Zurich, Chapel Hill North Carolina, and CTU Prague. Appointment of
Magerand (2019) to CVIP, Crabb (2018) and Rough (2020) to HCC, and Lawrence (2019) and
Visser (2019) to ARG-tech, helped maintain or build capacity in those clusters. Janjic (2019) was
recruited to strengthen capacity in data science, working across clusters, especially around
parallelism and medical big data. Fiadeiro (2019), who researches formal software system
modelling and analysis, was appointed as Dean of the School of Science & Engineering.

Demographic profile is well balanced after healthy recent intake of early career academics, thereby
supporting succession planning. Five professors (distributed across clusters, one of whom is
Dean), two senior lecturers, and seven lecturers make up the Category A staff, all of whom are on
permanent contracts. The age profile is 20-29: 7%, 30-39: 36%, 40-49: 21%, 50-59: 29%, >60: 7%.

Strategy for recruitment and growth is aligned with clusters, allowing for cross-discipline
appointments. New teaching programmes will enable expansion following this REF period. HCC
has already grown by a further 2 FTE since the REF census date with the appointment of a Senior
Lecturer and a Lecturer (both on Teaching & Research contracts) in Assistive Technology. A new
appointment (1 FTE) in networks and sensors is also being made.

The Associate Dean for Research sits on all shortlisting and appointment panels for roles that
include significant research responsibilities. The appointment process usually runs over two days
to ensure candidates interact with staff in relevant clusters and become familiar with the research
structure before interview.

All research active academic staff undergo an Annual Research Review, in addition to the annual
Objective Setting and Review process. These supportive processes prompt reflection and
guidance regarding research goals, achievements and challenges. Given multiple new academic
staff, mentoring and development are critical for the Unit. Early Career Researchers (ECRs) are
provided with a tailored programme of support to prepare them for leadership and are assigned a
mentor (a senior academic in an aligned research area) whom they meet regularly. They are also
enrolled on postgraduate training for teaching and learning in Higher Education. The Unit is
committed to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. Its staff benefit
from UoD’s researcher development programme including courses mapped to the Vitae
Researcher Development Framework.

Senior staff provide mock panels and pre-reviewing of proposal drafts/rebuttals. Staff who have
held fellowships mentor new applicants during fellowship proposal drafting. Staff are regularly
briefed on appropriate funding opportunities using RESEARCHconnect. Individual staff research
activities, such as travel and networking, are supported at School level by a Research Fund

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
approved by the Research Committee, with priority given to ECRs. All staff align their research
interests with at least one research cluster, and thereby become incorporated in group activities
(e.g., reading groups, postgraduate supervision, group funding applications). The Workload
Allocation Model protects research time; newly appointed academic staff on teaching and research
contracts are allocated reduced teaching workloads. Cluster Lead roles are recognised in the
model, as is PGR supervision, time on external research projects and impact generating activities
such as consultancy and service work, meaning that the teaching and non-research project-
supervision load is balanced across all staff taking into account these research commitments.
These come on top of a baseline research allocation to support generation of new avenues of
research and strong contribution to the wider academic community.

UoD sabbatical leave may be granted to staff who have served three years or more, at the rate of
one semester per three years of service. Staff are encouraged to fund research sabbaticals
through external funding. Reed secured £40k funding as part of DFG’s Cluster of Excellence in the
Politics of Inequality for a 5-month visiting senior fellowship at University of Konstanz. McKillop
(Research Assistant) spent a month at University of Göttingen furthering collaboration with political
scientist Gold; post-doc Snaith made extended visits to Roessingh Research & Development in the
Netherlands.

2.2 Research students
All PhD students are provided with computer equipment and individual desk space in the most
relevant lab. Privileges they share with staff include 24-hour access and a shared staff common
room. They are welcome at Computing staff meetings. PhD students are expected to contribute to
regular cluster and project meetings and encouraged to interact in a spirit of collaboration and
sharing with other students and researchers. They often assist with supervision of MSc and
undergraduate projects related to their research.

UoD procedures and practices for postgraduate research are supplemented by the School’s own
Postgraduate Research Guide. All doctoral students are allocated two supervisors with further
supervision from collaborating academics in the case of interdisciplinary research. Each student
meets twice a year with two members of academic staff other than their supervisors as part of the
Thesis Monitoring Committee programme to discuss achievements, goals, and individual
development plans. This provides an opportunity to raise concerns (e.g. regarding supervision or
access to resources) and contributes to a documented portfolio of progress. Students can also
seek guidance from the Computing PGR Lead and the School’s PGR Director (who is a member of
the board of the UoD Doctoral Academy). Students transfer formally to the PhD programme after
their first year, having satisfied an examining committee based on a report (including plan),
presentation, mandatory research integrity training, and oral examination.

All research students are encouraged to present at high quality international and national
conferences, and to attend relevant summer schools. Financial support for this is provided by the
School’s Research Fund and the Discipline of Computing’s budget. Students benefit from the
environment provided by SICSA with its seminars, masterclasses, conferences and funding
opportunities, e.g. there have been 36 UoD PhD student attendees at SICSA PhD Conferences
(2014-19), a student representative on its organising committee, and SICSA summer school
sponsorship and bursary support. OPD’s Researcher Development Programme provides training
suitable for Computing PhD students including workshops covering PhD Launchpad (year 1),
Making Progress in Your PhD (year 2), Finish Up, Move on (year 3), Career Options, Researcher
Wellbeing and Mental Health, EDI, and research ethics. Bespoke training (e.g. in statistics) and


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
graduate school events provide further opportunities for development. Research clusters run
regular journal clubs, at which staff and students meet to review research together.

The School supports an annual two-day Computing PhD Symposium organised and chaired by
PhD students with two senior academics acting as advisors. It features student-edited proceedings
and student-selected keynotes/panels on, e.g. open data, publishing, and ‘life after the viva’. All
students are required to participate each year by reviewing extended abstracts and giving a talk on
their research. Annual prizes are given to reward the best first-year student presentation and the
best overall PhD student.

The quality of PhD education is evidenced by external awards to students, e.g. Best Student Paper
Awards at European Conference on Argumentation (Visser, 2015) and Computational Models of
Argument (Duthie, 2016), EPSRC UK ICT Pioneers Finalist (Stein, 2014). PhD students are
encouraged to participate in public engagement activities and spend time as research interns or
visiting researchers in companies or labs elsewhere to broaden their experience, e.g. Duthie and
McKillop visited University of Konstanz; Akbar was research intern at Toshiba Medical
Visualization Systems; Gemechu was appointed Industrial Fellow in Residence, funded by Contact
Engine. The quality of PhD training provided by staff is evidenced by their invited contributions to
doctoral training and summer schools (4.3).

The Unit strives to balance retaining talented local graduates and attracting students from
elsewhere. UoD receives an EPSRC Doctoral Training Award used to competitively fund
studentships in the School, in some cases with staff securing matched funding externally.
Studentships are also funded by industry and other organisations (1.2).

2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
The School is committed to the Athena SWAN charter principles, holds an Athena SWAN Bronze
Award (since 2018) and is working towards a Silver Award application in 2022. Its Athena SWAN
self-assessment committee, led by Computing academic Murray, focuses on actions that maintain
and enhance inclusive culture and collegiate working practices. School and University-level EDI
and Athena SWAN action plans guide ongoing improvements in support of all staff and students;
these are informed by the University's biennial staff survey.

Staff in the Unit can access a range of University work-life balance policies including coverage for
those with changed circumstances, compassionate leave, parental leave (including shared),
adoption/fostering leave, carer's leave, and fertility treatment leave. Computing’s Discipline Lead
maintains regular contact with staff during their leave. Discussions related to return to work,
including requests for reductions in FTE, are held prior to return in line with UoD’s Flexible Working
Policy. The Unit can be flexible in transitioning staff to/from part-time working; job sharing and
flexible/phased retirement are also supported. During lockdown, staff and research students were
supported to work effectively from home, and computational resources were fully accessible to
support remote working on research. Voluntary declaration of any mitigating circumstances is part
of the standard academic promotions process.

The Unit appoints staff and recruits research students on merit alone and is committed to equality
and diversity. Staff appointing and shortlisting panels are gender balanced. Online training in
equality and diversity is mandatory for staff and includes modules on Diversity in the Workplace,
Disability, Diversity in Learning and Teaching, Stress in the Workplace, and A Manager’s Guide to
Stress. Additionally, a Recruitment and Selection module is taken by staff involved in those
activities. Unconscious bias training sessions are available to all in the School. A full-time

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
counsellor for mental-health issues has recently been appointed and has supported staff and
students with caring responsibilities and other needs during the Covid-19 pandemic. Harassment
advisers are available for staff and students.

Staff from the Unit organised and hosted the SICSA Women in Computing Research event
(Pease, Komendantskaya, 2016). Pease is joint leader for the SICSA theme Supporting and
Recruiting Women in Computing. Strong female role models in the Unit during the period include
Computing’s Discipline Lead (Waller, OBE) who was born with cerebral palsy, and the President of
the ACM (Hanson, FRSE).

2.4 Preparation of the REF Submission
In preparing this submission, the Unit’s Planning Group was guided by the University’s REF 2021
Code of Practice, framing its decision-making process in the context of the principles of equality,
diversity, and inclusion. The Planning Group made decisions on outputs and attributions in a
manner that aimed to maximise the overall quality profile, based on a thorough process of internal
and external evaluation. All staff were invited to propose potential Impact Case Studies. The
submitted Impact Case Studies reflect the Planning Group’s view of the strongest demonstrable
research impacts in the reporting period. All Planning Group members completed EDI and
Information Security training modules, and REF-specific training in Equality & Diversity including
Unconscious Bias training, prior to the decision-making process.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Research Funding
The Unit attracted £11.45M in research funding over the period. In addition to published outputs,
this funding led to significant impact, including enabling aspects of the Impact Case Studies.
Specifically, research underpinning the PANGU case study was supported by the European Space
Agency (ESA) PANGU-4: Planet and Asteroid Natural Scene Generation Utility Tool Enhancement
project (Grant to UoD £494k. Martin, Parkes). The EPSRC-funded project Argument Mining
(£680k. Sole investigator: Reed) underpinned the Argument Technology case study. Further
funding for ARG-tech included £671k from Dstl (Mar 2019-Mar 2021) on applications of argument
technology to intelligence analysis. Academics in the HCC and CVIP clusters led further major
EPSRC-funded projects:

   •   ACE-LP: Augmenting Communication using Environmental Data-driven Language
       Prediction. £1M. Waller (PI), McKenna, Zhang. Partners: University of Cambridge
       (Kristensson), Arria NLG Ltd, Edesix Ltd, Scope, Capability Scotland, Communication
       Matters, National Museum of Scotland, Ninewells Hospital & Medical School, Sensory
       Software International Ltd, Tobii Dynavox. (Ranked number one at the ‘User Interaction
       with ICT’ prioritisation panel).
   •   Multi-modal retinal biomarkers for vascular dementia. £923k, Unit income £313k. Trucco
       (PI), McKenna. Collaborators: UoD School of Medicine (Doney), Edinburgh Centre for
       Clinical Brain Sciences and Centre for Cognitive Ageing & Cognitive Epidemiology (Deary,
       Dhillon, Doubal, MacGillivray, Wardlaw).
   •   BESiDE: Built Environment for Social Inclusion in the Digital Economy. £1.3M. Hanson (PI),
       Reed. Collaborators: UoD Art & Design (Lim, White), UoD School of Medicine (McMurdo),
       Newcastle University (Watson). Partners: Balhousie Care Group, BUPA, Collective
       Architecture Ltd, Healthfield Residential Home Ltd.



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Grants obtained as part of major international consortia included:

   •   COUCH: Council of Coaches. EU H2020. Grant to UoD: £416k. Pease. Collaborators: UoD
       School of Medicine (Conway, Wake). Partners: University of Twente, Roessingh Research
       & Development BV, Danish Board of Technology Foundation, University Pierre and Marie
       Curie, Polytechnic University of Valencia, Innovation Sprint.
   •   INSPIRED: India-Scotland Partnership for Precision Medicine in Diabetes. NIHR Global
       Health Research Unit (£7M, PI: Colin Palmer, School of Medicine). Trucco leads the
       Retinome package. Income to Unit: £852k.

Sustainable research income generation will target interdisciplinary, challenge-based research in
areas where the Unit is well placed to lead or provide critical input. For example, CVIP will leverage
opportunities provided by the scale and nature of medical data resources available through
collaborations in Tayside (e.g. GoDarts: Genetics of Diabetes Audit and Research; SHARE:
Scottish Health Research Register) and strong links nationally (UK Biobank) and internationally
(e.g. 0.5M patients in India via INSPIRED), building on extensive collaborative networks and long
experience of interdisciplinary biomedical research to target research questions that require large-
scale data and high quality consortia. As a current example, Trucco is computing investigator on
the UoD-led PICTURES programme (2019-2024), a £3.8M consortium with the Universities of
Edinburgh and Abertay, NHS Scotland, and industry, funded through MRC/EPSRC as part of
HDR-UK. ARG-tech will grow funding based on its reputation for techniques in argument mining
(surveyed by Lawrence and Reed in Computational Linguistics, 2020) and its applications
including intelligence analysis.

A key target for 2021-23 is to secure funding for ECRs; submission of a New Investigator Award
proposal is a minimum expectation for ECRs (Pease won her EPSRC First Grant during the
period), and applications for externally-funded personal Fellowship support are strongly
encouraged. Internal peer review of proposals and responses to reviewers, as well as mock
interview panels, involving fellowship holders, and Research Council panel and college members,
together with proposal development support from Research & Innovation Services, will help ensure
bids of the highest quality. There will be a focus on fellowship funding at all levels including UKRI
and charitable sources.

The Unit will take opportunities with colleagues and collaborating institutions, working with the
Doctoral Academy, to bid for large scale Doctoral Training initiatives. It will harness its Industrial
Advisory Board in planning how to better marshal and leverage its many successful commercial
collaborations, to win service and industrial research funds, and to enhance its impact.

3.2 Organisational and Operational Infrastructure
Human Infrastructure
Research clusters deliver the strategic research directions of the School. They inform staff
recruitment, coordinate ECR mentoring and training, organise seminars, and coordinate peer-
review of grant applications and mock-interviews for fellowship applications, drawing on expertise
across UoD. They also serve as interfaces with other schools in the University for inter- or multi-
disciplinary research.

Management structures in which the Unit operates were reorganised in 2015 with formation of the
School of Science and Engineering. Management and monitoring of research and impact, and
sharing of best practice, are now coordinated by the School Research & Knowledge Exchange
Committee whose membership includes the Computing Research Lead and PGR Lead. It is

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
chaired by the Associate Dean for Research who is a member of the University Research &
Knowledge Exchange Committee as well as other groups convened by the Vice-Principal
(Research) for defining or monitoring implementation of University-wide strategic objectives. The
Associate Dean meets staff individually for monitoring, planning, and scoping of opportunities as
part of the Annual Research Review process. Together with target setting at Objective Setting and
Review meetings, and research cluster meetings, this helps keep ambition levels high for the Unit’s
research activities, environment, outputs, and impact.

The School Research Administrative Lead coordinates a team supporting the research-driven
culture. This includes (i) collating and analysing data relevant to Annual Research Reviews and
other research activity; (ii) supporting adherence to Open Access and Open Data policies; (iii)
disseminating research funding opportunities using RESEARCHconnect; (iv) ensuring effective
support is in place for costing research proposals (pre-award); and (v) liaising with Research
Finance Services over creation of grant administration structures and cost centres (post-award).

Physical and Digital Infrastructure
The Queen Mother Building (QMB) was purpose-built for Computing and designed to be fully
accessible. Space in QMB is organised to co-locate cluster members, achieving a working
environment, in which cognate researchers, from PhD students to professorial staff, are in close
physical proximity, facilitating collaboration. QMB was designed to allow a fourth floor to be added,
a cost-effective option for expansion that would maintain co-location and cohesion.

The QMB received further investment during the period. It has been part of a university-wide £7M
network upgrade project delivering a gigabit network to the desktop. Additionally, a dedicated
firewall solution that caters for Computing’s requirements has been implemented to satisfy Cyber
Essentials requirements. Furthermore, the server infrastructure has seen hardware upgrades with
some storage being transferred from traditional magnetic HDD to SSD technology at a cost of
around £8k. Overall maintenance and improvement of services such as web and database hosting
for the research portfolio, and new investment into GPU-driven processing, cost approximately
£50k. The Unit’s research is currently aided by a School support team of 3 FTE administrative and
1 FTE specialist support staff who work closely with centralised IT support (UoDIT).

Computing operates a hardware/software investment cycle to ensure staff have up-to-date
resources. Software requirements are also gathered on a continuous basis to support research. All
research students and staff have access to a wide range of software including Visual Studio
Enterprise, MATLAB (with over 40 toolboxes), CUDA and Python in-house. Computing has
invested in shared GPU servers and desktops that have greatly facilitated deep learning research
by staff and students in CVIP and ARG-tech with support from Nvidia and from research funds.
The loan of a Nvidia DGX server and storage solution was an example of Nvidia’s support. Staff
can also access the University’s centrally supported High-Performance Computing facilities.

The QMB User Testing Lab has been renovated, providing state-of-the-art AV recording and eye-
tracking capabilities within an HCI testing environment, and HCC has set up dedicated prototyping
space for Virtual/Augmented Reality research with equipment such as HTC Vive Pro, Microsoft
Hololens, and Sony Xperia Touch (c. £50k investment). QMB houses the User Centre, a unique
resource hosting user groups who meet regularly to learn about technology and take part in
research (4.2).

The Unit benefits from investment across UoD to support its interdisciplinary strengths. Dundee
Interdisciplinary and Innovation Forum events included Artificial Intelligence, Health Informatics,

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and Health and Wellbeing: Ageing Society. The University’s Health Informatics Centre (HIC) has
an ISO27001 certified environment, part of a federated Scottish network of Safe Havens, and
develops a Research Data Management Platform to manage, anonymise, and extract images
linked to health data, to support over 1.5 Petabytes of routinely collected radiological imaging data.
CVIP is collaborating in this effort and will continue to work with HIC to leverage this infrastructure
to develop algorithms for diagnostics, risk prediction, and discovery. CVIP’s research on digital
pathology benefits from the Tayside Biorepository secure tissue bank.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Support for and Effectiveness of Research Collaborations and Networks
Unit staff collaborated productively with UK Universities (e.g. Cambridge, Edinburgh, Newcastle,
UCL), overseas universities (e.g. Duke, Göttingen, Harvard, Twente) and companies and NGOs.
Funded industrial collaborations in the REF period include those with the BBC, Roessingh R&D
BV, OPTOS plc UK, NIDEK Technologies Srl (Italy/Japan), Hellenic Systems Ltd., and Tulip Ltd.
Exemplars of effective research collaborations and networks not detailed elsewhere in this
document include the following:

ARG-tech’s network includes Contact Engine (Reed appointed to Scientific Advisory Board),
Ombudsman Services, Juralio Ltd. (Reed served as interim CTO), IBM, and the UN. Pease has
long-term connections and collaborations with the Universities of Edinburgh, Heriot-Watt, Queen
Mary London, Saarbrücken, Genoa, Cambridge and Oxford, and with Dundee colleagues in
Medicine (Conway) and Art & Design (Moncur). Further ARG-tech collaborations include the
Universities of Amsterdam, Utrecht, Southampton, Cardiff, Liverpool, Rutgers, CMU, and MIT.

CTM, through the European H2020 SERUMS (Securing Medical Data in Smart Patient-Centric
Healthcare System) project (Janjic), collaborates with University of St Andrews, Universite
Catholique de Louvian (Belgium), University of Cyprus, IBM, Accenture, Sopra-Steria (UK),
Software Competence Center Hagenberg (Austria) and two large hospital centres, Zuyderland
Medisch Centrum (Netherlands) and Fundacio Clinic per a la Recerca Biomedica (Spain). This
consortium aims to put patients at the centre of future healthcare provision, enhancing personal
care and quality of treatment, while ensuring trust in security and privacy of confidential data.

CVIP involvement with the Academic Health Science Partnership, established between UoD and
NHS Tayside in 2014 to promote translation of University healthcare technologies, has enhanced
collaboration with NHS clinicians; McKenna and Trucco have funded collaboration with
dermatology on deep learning for skin lesion diagnosis; in HDR-UK (with UoD Medicine) Trucco
leads the Advanced machine learning for image analysis theme with University of Edinburgh
focusing on MRI and clinical risk and outcome associations. The VAMPIRE retinal image analysis
programme (led by Trucco in long-term partnership with McGillivray at University of Edinburgh)
has built an extensive network of interdisciplinary collaborators and clinical centres nationally
(Queen’s University, Belfast Ophthalmic Reading Centre and Centre for Public Health; Ulster
University; UCL/Moorfields Eye Hospital) and internationally (Duke University; Tufts School of
Medicine; Harvard Medical School; Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Grenoble; Universidad del
Valle, Colombia; Dr Mohan’s Diabetes Speciality Hospitals; Madras Diabetes Research Centre)
who apply VAMPIRE software and contribute directly or indirectly to the image analysis research.

HCC collaborates in W3C where Crabb leads on developing Mixed Reality Web Guidelines for
WCAG3.0. Crabb is a member of the BBC UX Research Partnership, established between BBC
R&D, UoD, UCL, and the Universities of Bath, Newcastle, Nottingham, and Swansea. Work on

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
implementation of accessible services has resulted in changes within the iPlayer platform, creating
international digital impact, as well as in joint publications and BBC White Papers.

External collaborations are fostered by encouraging incoming visitors as seminar speakers, visiting
scholars and distinguished visitors funded through external programmes such as SICSA and by
internal strategic funding. SICSA sponsored the UoD-organised and hosted SICSA Medical Image
Analysis Workshop in 2015 (McKenna, Trucco, Zhang) to build a network of researchers in
medical image analysis, further bolstered through the SINAPSE Scottish Imaging network (Image
Analysis Deputy Lead: Zhang), and helping to raise CVIP’s profile nationally and strengthen
collaboration, particularly with the University of Edinburgh.

The Unit has had a continuous flow of international research visitors including exchanges based on
exchange/travel grants or project grants. It hosted three Distinguished Visiting Fellows
(competitively awarded through SICSA): Moens (KU Leuven), Carpendale (University of Calgary)
and Johann (Appalachian State University). The Unit’s seminar series funds visitors largely from
the UK and Western Europe for short stays, and occasionally longer visits from further afield. ARG-
tech alone hosted 34 research visitors over the period, nearly all international. Outgoing
international visiting positions included Trucco’s adjunct professorship at the Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Ningbo (2016-19) and Reed’s appointments as Visiting Professor, Polish Academy of
Sciences (Dec 2016-Dec 2017) and Senior Research Fellow, University of Konstanz, DFG Cluster
of Excellence (Jan-Jun 2020).

4.2 Relationships with Research Users, Beneficiaries and Audiences to Develop Impact
End users are involved in most of the Unit’s research from grant application through to impact.
Projects typically have advisory groups, ensuring relevance to users and beneficiaries, and more
lasting impact, e.g. the ACE-LP (EPSRC) advisory group drawn from people who use AAC,
clinicians, charities representing disabled people, and industrial experts. Its central hypothesis was
that communication rate and experience of people who use Voice Output Communication Aids can
be improved by leveraging automatically perceived contextual data to inform a probabilistic
language module. In addition to engaging in research, industry research partners actively took part
in HCC public engagement with national museums, e.g. More than just computer speech (National
Museums Scotland, https://vimeo.com/358837456) and Technology Taster Day (V&A Dundee,
https://vimeo.com/359049317).

The Unit has a Public Engagement Officer, and the School Deputy Director for Public Engagement
is from the Unit (Black). All clusters are involved in public engagement. In 2015, Computing, in
collaboration with Leisure & Culture Dundee and Life Sciences, created a public engagement
venue: Outer Space|Inner Space (https://aac.dundee.ac.uk/osis/) at the iconic Mills Observatory.
Computing events hosted there include Ways of Vision (Flatla) and Alien Surfaces (Martin). Outer
Space|Inner Space created the brands Science Saturdays and Wednesday Wonders, offering
activities for an established, interested audience of all ages. This will continue to allow the Unit to
share its work without the need to organise suitable accessible venues. Staff gave outreach talks,
e.g., at Edinburgh International Science Festival (Pease 2017); Café Science on Computational
Creativity (Pease 2016) and Voices from Care Homes (McIntyre, Postdoc, 2015); TedX Dundee
(Trucco 2015); and Dundee Women’s Festival (Waller 2020).

HCC maintains the User Centre, a collaborative network drawn from “hard to reach” population
groups, meeting weekly in the QMB, run by users, and with Crabb as academic contact. It includes
a pool of older computer users from which researchers can recruit participants for user studies; the
Straight-Talking Group, an active group of adults with complex physical disabilities who use AAC

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
systems; and the Tap and Talk Aphasia Group which works with former NHS stroke patients
investigating mainstream iPad apps from an accessibility perspective. User pools are augmented
by users accessed through clinical partners. They have been involved in multiple projects in UoD
and elsewhere (e.g. Napier, Robert Gordon, and Newcastle Universities).

UoD recognises excellence in public engagement through its Stephen Fry awards; commendations
for work that excelled at engaging audiences with research were awarded to ARG-tech (Reed et
al., 2018, 2019) for “argumentation technology and the BBC”, for Outer Space|Inner Space (2017),
and for engaged researcher of the year (Black, HCC 2019). As an example of media coverage, the
ACE-LP EPSRC project featured on BBC Click with a live computer vision and AAC demo and
interview in front of a V&A audience (2020).

Staff contribute to policy debate and provide commentary on industry research. For example, Reed
was invited speaker at the Holyrood Communications' Effective Digital Communication event
(2018), contributed to Scientific Briefing on “Fake News” at the Parliamentary & Scientific
Committee, Palace of Westminster (2019), and to an All-Party Parliamentary Group on AI (2020).
McKenna and Trucco have both participated in scoping events for Toshiba/Canon as invited
experts (2015, 2019). Reed was invited as sole academic commentator at IBM's Project Debater
launch (San Francisco, 2018).

STAR-Dundee, a 2002 spin-out from the Unit, continues to work with UoD and won Design and
Innovation Business of the Year at the Courier Business Awards 2017. The Enterprise in Education
award was won by My Diabetes My Way, Scotland’s interactive website and mobile app for people
with diabetes, impact arising from user-centred design and health informatics research supervised
by Waller in collaboration with the School of Medicine. It allows all 310k people with diabetes in
Scotland to support self-management and access clinical records, is evidenced to improve clinical
outcomes and quality of life with cost savings of £230 for £33 invested (independently validated)
and was embedded in the Scottish Diabetes Improvement Plan and eHealth Strategy. It led to a
2017 spin-out (MyWay Digital Health) now employing 25 staff.

Consultancy is an important part of the Unit’s research activity as it provides a means to deliver
impact and establish commercial relationships. Examples are Reed’s work as CTO for Juralio Ltd
(2013) and as a member of Contact Engine Ltd.’s AI Board (2018-) whose CEO is an Honorary
Professor in ARG-tech.

4.3 Contributions to Sustainability of the Discipline
Apart from all the research activities already mentioned that help to build and sustain the discipline,
staff contribute by engaging with external PhD training. Nationally, for example, Computing hosted
the SICSA PhD Conference 2017, the HCI Camp one-week summer school 2019 (Co-Chair:
Crabb), and the first Summer School on Argumentation (SSA-2014) with Pease contributing an
invited talk. Internationally, Pease co-chaired the ICCC-2017 Doctoral Symposium and was an
invited ICCC-2018 PhD panellist. Reed gave invited tutorials at the International Graduate School
on Argument & Rhetoric (IGSAR-2014), and the Swiss Universities Doctoral Programme Language
& Cognition PhD Workshop on Linguistic & Corpus Perspectives on Argumentative Discourse
(Fribourg 2019), an invited lecture at the Argupolis doctoral programme (Lugano 2014) and taught
a course (with Budzynska) at ESSLLI-2017 European Summer School. Pease was invited speaker
at the Summer School on Creative Cognition (Budapest 2017). Trucco gave an invited 3-day
course on retinal image analysis at Universidad del Valle, Colombia (2015) and was invited lecturer
at the Computer Vision summer school, Lappeenranta University (2018). Reed gave argument


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
mining tutorials at ACL-2016 and ACL-2019. UoD is an active contributor to the SICSA pool,
having provided its Director of Education and committee members throughout the period.

4.4 Selected indicators of influence, contributions to and recognition by research base
Fellowships, Honours
OBE for services to people with Complex Communication Needs, 2016 New Year’s Hons. (Waller)
Fellow, International Association for Pattern Recognition (FIAPR) 2016 (Trucco)
Elected member of Academia Europaea 2017 (Fiadeiro)
Honorary Fellowship, Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists, 2017 (Waller)
Visiting Fellow, Isaac Newton Institute for Mathematical Sciences, Big Proof 2017 (Pease)
Distinguished Fellow, British Machine Vision Association (BMVA) 2020 (Trucco)

Editorial Board Memberships, Programme Chairs (Open Access journals in italics)
Argument & Computation (Reed, -2015, Coordinating Editor), ACM TACCESS (Waller), Applicable
Analysis & Discrete Mathematics (Edwards), Applied Intelligence (McKenna), Argumentation and
Advocacy (Reed, -2016), Electronic Proceedings Theoretical Computer Science (Fiadeiro),
Informal Logic (Reed, -2017), Information Processing Letters (Fiadeiro), J. Computational
Creativity (Pease), J. Imaging (McKenna), J. Modelling in Ophthalmology (Trucco), J. Public
Deliberation (Reed, -2016), Machine Vision & Applications (McKenna), SN Computer Science
(Fiadeiro). Selected Guest Editorships: Computerized Medical Imaging and Graphics, 2017
(Trucco), J. Diabetes Science & Technology, 2016 (Trucco), Philosophy & Technology, 2017
(Reed), Science of Computer Programming, 2014, 2015 (Fiadeiro). Programme co-chairs:
Brazilian Symposium on Formal Methods (SBMF-2017) (Fiadeiro), European Computer Science
Summit (ECSS-2017) (Fiadeiro), Int Conf on Computational Creativity (ICCC-2017) (Pease).

Research Council Membership, Grant Committees
EPSRC College (Full: Fiadeiro, McKenna, Reed, Trucco, Hanson, Newell; Associate: Waller);
Committee 25, French Research Council/ANR (Fiadeiro); Carnegie Trust Assessors (McKenna,
Reed, Trucco); BBSRC TRDF Panels 2014/2016/2018 (McKenna); Academy of Finland Review
Panel, Japan-Finland Call 2015 (McKenna).

International Prizes (Selected)
Best Paper Awards CHI-2015 (Flatla) CHI-2016 (Flatla), CHI-2020 (Waller)
Winner, Endoscopic Vision Challenge Sub-challenges on Polyp Localisation and Early Barret's
Cancer Detection, MICCAI-2015 (Zhang, Trucco, McKenna)
Winner, Performance Evaluation of Indirect Immunofluorescence Image Analysis Systems (both
tasks), I3A@ICPR-2014 (McKenna, Zhang)
Winner, White Matter Hyperintensities Segmentation Challenge, MICCAI-2017 (Zhang)

International Keynotes and Invited Talks (Selected)
International Conference on Agents and AI, Lisbon 2015 (Reed)
Cultures of Mathematics, New Delhi 2015 (Pease)
MICCAI Workshop Keynotes: CARE-2015, OMIA-2016, LABEL-2017 (Trucco)
Big Data, Reasoning and Decision Making (BraD-2017), Zhejiang University (Reed)
Public Policy and Good Governance (CPG) Conference on Governing the Future (German-
Southeast Asian Center of Excellence) Bangkok 2019 (Reed)
Body of Knowledge: Art and Embodied Cognition, Melbourne 2019 (Waller)
Image-based Systems Biology (IbSB), Jena 2014 (McKenna)
AAAS Symposium Massively Collaborative Global Research in Maths & Science 2016 (Pease)
DFG funding programme launch (Schwerpunktprogram) RATIO, Bielefeld 2018 (Reed)

                                                                                        Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
CVPR Workshop on Medical Computer Vision & Health Informatics, 2019 (Trucco)
Invited Winter Lecture, Int J Language and Communication Disorders 2017 (Waller)
Schloss Dagsthul Workshops: Present & Future of Formal Argumentation, Debating Technologies,
2015 (Reed).




                                                                                    Page 16
