Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen’s University Belfast

 Unit of Assessment: 28

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Located in a city whose troubled past shapes the present, History at Queen’s University Belfast
 forms a vibrant research unit committed to meaningful public engagement. During the 2013-
 2020 REF period we built on our long commitment to dealing with difficult histories. We grew our
 expertise in fields such as religion and gender through new appointments and funded projects,
 and developed fresh specialisms in public history, oral history, urban history, and the history of
 race and sexuality.

 Responding to the university’s evolving strategies to support interdisciplinary research and
 public engagement, we established the Centre for Public History (CPH) in 2016. In addition to
 providing the key research umbrella group for historians, the CPH has supported collaboration
 with disciplines such as Anthropology and Political Science to develop expertise in areas
 including the contested past, conflict and identity. Interdisciplinary research is also supported
 through engagement with Faculty centres such as the Institute of Irish Studies, Centre for
 Economic History, Centre for Eighteenth-Century Studies, and Centre for the Americas.

 Operating in a devolved UK region which straddles two national cultures, we engage with
 policymakers and political and cultural institutions on both sides of the Irish border. While this
 unique context creates a strong synergy between place and research, our staff are international
 in their expertise, outlook and networks, with Queen’s hosting some of Europe’s largest history
 conferences. This document demonstrates how our collective response to the challenges and
 opportunities arising from our distinctive location has shaped our research culture.

 Forming the largest unit of historians on the island of Ireland, our research profile combines
 chronological and geographical breadth with concentration in specialisms such as modern Irish,
 modern British, ancient, medieval, early modern, and Southern U.S. history. History at Queen’s
 currently comprises 30 full-time permanent academics, two part-time permanent academics, two
 fixed-term lecturers, and one independent researcher, as well as four postdoctoral fellows and
 43 research students. All lecturing staff are on full research and teaching contracts, and all such
 staff have been returned in this REF exercise. In 2016 History joined Anthropology, Politics and
 Philosophy to form a new school (HAPP) where we are represented by disciplinary leads on the
 School’s Management Board and Research Committee.

 During this REF period our key research aims were to:

 1. Enhance our research culture by developing innovative funded research projects leading to
 high-quality outputs, greater research dissemination and impact.
 2. Further our public engagement and research reach through the development of partnerships
 with public heritage, media and other organisations.
 3. Further internationalise our research and its impact through strengthened partnerships and
 joint research initiatives.
 4. Maximise interdisciplinary research.
 5. Improve postgraduate training through our Northern Bridge Consortium Doctoral Training
 Partnership (NBCDTP) and increase engagement by research students in our research culture.

 These aims were achieved.

 1. The vitality of our research culture is reflected in the level and quality of our research outputs
 and activity, as well as our success in increasing research income from £2.2 million in 2008-
 2013 to £5.1 million in 2013-2020. During this REF period our 35 staff members published 28
 monographs, 21 edited books, 131 journal articles, and 153 essays in scholarly collections, and
 presented their research at 636 conferences, seminars and workshops in over 32 countries.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. Successful collaborations were developed with a range of public heritage partners including
 National Museums Northern Ireland (NMNI) and BBC Northern Ireland (see Section 4).
 3. Internationalisation was advanced through the involvement of 14 staff members in 20
 fellowships outside Northern Ireland, as well as collaborations with existing and new partner
 institutions, particularly in the United States (see Section 4).
 4. The development of several successful collaborative initiatives (outlined below) further
 supported interdisciplinary research and is evidenced in both our outputs and income.
 5. Our NBCDTP, established since 2014, was expanded from three to seven universities across
 Northern Ireland and North East England, resulting in 13 RCUK funded studentships and
 expanded PGR training (see Section 3) over the present REF period. We expanded our
 completions of research students from 38 in 2008-2013 (7.6 p.a.) to 64 in 2013-2020 (9.1 p.a.).

 The research strategy leading to the attainment of these aims was implemented as follows:

 1. Research culture:

       Research seminars and research centres lie at the heart of our scholarly activities,
        facilitating our collaborative intellectual culture. Our well-attended, student-run History
        Research Seminar features research by staff, postdoctoral researchers, research
        students and visiting researchers, as do our sub-discipline seminar series such as the
        American History colloquia and Centre for Public History’s monthly seminars, workshops
        and symposia. Our prestigious annual Wiles Lectures sees a leading historian present
        research over four days (usually leading to a monograph) to a public audience (including
        five invited international experts). In this REF period the speakers were Amanda Vickery
        (QMUL), Alison Bashford (University of New South Wales), Miri Rubin (QMUL), Jay
        Winter (Yale), Lyndal Roper (Oxford), and Rana Mitter (Oxford). The Wiles Trust also
        supports QUB staff to organise thematic colloquia. Colloquia outputs published during
        this REF period include special issues of the Journal of Contemporary History (Interwar
        Kulturkampf, 2017) and Chinese Historical Review (photographic frontiers, 2018), and an
        edited Cambridge University Press volume on commemoration, Remembering 1916
        (2016).
       New staff appointments sustained areas of strength and developed new areas of
        expertise.
       Funded projects enhanced research vitality by supporting research studentships,
        postdoctoral appointments, internationalisation, interdisciplinarity and impact activity. For
        example, Campbell’s War and the Supernatural in Early Modern Europe project (ERC,
        €1.3 million) funded two postdoctoral fellowships and one research studentship, while
        McGarry’s Global History of Irish Revolution project (AHRC, £684k) funded two
        postdoctoral fellows, based at QUB and the University of Edinburgh, and research
        collaboration with Boston College.

 2. Public engagement and research impact

       Providing a hub for public history scholars and practitioners since 2016, the Centre for
        Public History (CPH) built upon our expertise and impact in this area of growing
        historiographical and social importance. The rationale for this initiative is outlined in
        Section 4. Key activities include the Keith Jeffery Public History Lecture, which provides
        a platform for senior scholars to reflect on contemporary public history issues, and a
        yearly conference bringing leading public historians to Queen’s. Associated public-
        history-related projects have generated further research, methodological expertise, and
        impact. Examples include: ‘Mother and Baby Homes/Magdalene Laundries in Northern
        Ireland’ (PI: O’Connell); ‘Voyaging through History: the Meanings of the Mayflower in
        Britain, 1620-2020’ (PI: Hulme); and ‘Heritage Connects’ (PI: Purdue). This expertise is
        further disseminated through CPH-hosted initiatives such as the Royal Historical
        Society’s symposium on ‘Researching and Teaching Controversial History’ (2017).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Internationalisation

        Research internationalisation was driven by a Director of Internationalisation
         responsible for developing strategic partnerships. Links with Harvard, for example, were
         established through the appointment of (former Wiles lecturer) David Armitage as a
         visiting honorary professor and the hosting of research events at both institutions.
         Collaborations with George Washington University were strengthened by joint symposia
         at QUB and GWU. Research exchanges and co-taught international modules were
         sustained with Vanderbilt and College of Charleston, while new links with the University
         of Virginia and Georgetown’s Global Irish Studies group were established. Links with
         Boston College (BC) in this REF period were enhanced through visits by four HAPP
         lecturers to BC; McGarry’s appointment as Burns Visiting Scholar; the appointment of
         Rob Savage (BC) as visiting honorary professor at QUB, and a planned joint conference
         at BC. Beyond this strategic focus on America, international connections were developed
         through other collaborative research activities, such as our symposium on ‘Ireland and
         India’ jointly-organised with Jawaharlal Nehru University.
        Research internationalisation was advanced through collaborative research projects.
         For example, exploiting a unique archive housed in QUB’s Special Collections, the
         Robert Hart Project (PIs: Reisz; De Angeli) forged links with the Chinese Academy of
         Social Sciences, Beijing, and China Customs Museum, Beijing, to secure funding for an
         ambitious collaborative programme that created three research studentships at QUB.
         O’Connell’s role as partner in the SSHRC-funded Deindustrialization and Politics project
         (Montreal: $2.5m) will lead to an international PhD studentship at QUB.
        Building on our distinctive research profile, networks, and location, History attracted
         major conferences to strengthen our international connections. In the past four years
         we have hosted the Urban History Group conference (2019: 80 delegates); Economic
         History Society (2019: 300 delegates); European Social Science History conference
         (2018: 1,600 delegates); and Oral History Society/QUOTE ‘Dangerous Oral Histories’
         conference (2018: 200 delegates).

 4. Interdisciplinarity:

        Interactions between scholars within HAPP are key to interdisciplinarity. For example,
         we work closely with colleagues in Politics and Anthropology on themes such as conflict,
         identity, and memory. Arising from an earlier ESRC project, ‘Imagining Belfast: Political
         Ritual, Symbols and Crowds’, Connolly and (anthropologist) Bryan co-authored Civic
         Identity and Public Space: Belfast since 1780 (2019). Coleman worked with Bryan on two
         funded projects relating to contested history which led to a programme of public
         engagement. Anthropology and Politics staff also contributed to Remembering 1916 (co-
         edited by McGarry, 2016).
        The CPH supports interdisciplinary activity through regular public and research events,
         such as its ‘History in the Making’ series, which bring historians into contact with
         humanities and social-science scholars and public-history practitioners such as curators
         and filmmakers.
        Purdue worked (as CI) with colleagues in Translation Studies to develop a funded public
         history project in Jordan (‘Dhiban: Valuing sites through valuable stories’ – AHRC
         Newton Khalidi Fund, £250k), and with colleagues in Public Health to develop the
         Wellcome-funded ‘Heritage and Wellbeing’ project.
        O’Connell brought together QUB academics from Law, Drama, Creative Arts, English,
         Geography and Computer Science to establish the Queen’s University Oral History,
         Technology & Ethics hub (QUOTE) to support oral history research whose agenda links
         well with that of the CPH.
        With the School of National and Built Environment, HAPP (Purdue, Hannan) established
         the Heritage Hub [IES2D] in 2020 to forge cross-disciplinary networks with external
         collaborators including English Heritage, British Library and National Trust (who were
         part of an AHRC-IRO consortium which visited QUB in 2019).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Programming conferences, workshops, witness seminars, and other public events, the
        long-established Institute of Irish Studies provides an additional interdisciplinary forum
        where historians, including the Institute’s most recent directors (O’Callaghan and Gray),
        play a leading role. The ‘Moving Statues – Shifted Meaning: Contested Memorials in
        Ireland and the US South’ symposium (2018), for example, saw international scholars
        from anthropology, history, and memory studies compare controversies over historical
        memory.
       Interdisciplinary collaboration is further supported by the Mitchell Institute for Global
        Peace, Security and Justice which co-ordinates an extensive programme of research
        and dissemination by academics, practitioners, policy-makers, politicians and activists.
        Coleman, a Mitchell Institute Fellow, was PI on two AHRC projects centring on
        commemoration and conflict.
       Historians engage with other interdisciplinary fora at QUB such as the Centre for
        Eighteenth-Century Studies (Hannan [director], Ribianszky); the Classical and Medieval
        Cultures Forum (Pfuntner, Curran, Davis, Booker, O’Sullivan, Pajic); Centre for the
        Americas (Kelly; Ribianszky; Williams), Centre for Economic History (Davis, Reisz, Pajic);
        Religious Studies Research Forum (Holmes, Gribben, Morier-Genoud); and
        Streetscapes (Davis, Purdue, Connell).

 5. Postgraduate training and research culture was developed through the NBCDTP, as well as
 postgraduate involvement in our research seminars and centres (see Section 2).

 Impact Strategy:

 During this REF period, History adopted an impact strategy based on the following objectives:
 1. Embedding an impact culture across the discipline.
 2. Making impact an integral and supported aspect of research.
 3. Encouraging the systematic collection and retention of impact-related data.
 4. Targeting opportunities for impact in areas of research expertise.
 4. Expanding links with external partners.

 This strategy is implemented through various means:
     A School impact lead (Connell), working closely with a Faculty Research Impact officer,
         disseminates information on engagement/impact initiatives across the School and
         facilitates the sharing of public engagement/impact practices with staff and research
         students. Regular workshops involving external partners and the media address topics
         such as cultural impact, recording impact, podcasting, and engaging with broadcasters.
         Examples of successful initiatives emerging from this expertise include our ‘A History of
         Pandemics’ and ‘Bad Bridget’ podcast series (2020).
     The Centre for Public History is increasingly central to our impact strategy, enabling us
         to increase public and stakeholder awareness of our research; build stakeholder
         relationships; and support and publicise our staff’s public engagement. Building on strong
         links with external partners such as NMNI and BBC NI, it provides a forum for
         international knowledge exchange between researchers, practitioners, and the public.
         The CPH further embeds impact culture through a monthly research seminar, public
         events such as our ‘History in the Making’ masterclasses, and an annual lecture and
         conference.
     Impact is embedded across postgraduate teaching. For example, our recently
         introduced MA in Public History, and funded NBCDTP PhD internships with partners
         such as the BBC, National Trust, PRONI and NNMI, have generated awareness of
         impact among postgraduate students.
     Impact objectives and achievements are also embedded in mentoring and appraisal
         processes.
     Sabbaticals and funding, such as the Faculty Impact Support Fund, support impact
         case-study development. For example, Faculty seed-funding is provided to support
         potential future Impact Case Studies and impact-related training for staff and research
         students.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       As set out in the Institutional Environment Statement, further support is provided by
        QUB’s research impact team [IES2B-4B]. Based within the Research and Enterprise
        Directorate (R&ED), it works with staff and stakeholders to identify, develop and monitor
        a comprehensive evidence base for research impact. It also supports researchers in
        identifying impact opportunities, evidencing impact, supporting engagement and
        publicising impact.

 Our three impact case studies illustrate key aspects of our approach to public engagement.
 Those of McGarry and Purdue, centring respectively on commemoration of the Easter Rising
 and Belfast’s divided past, exemplify a wider body of research impact relating to contested
 histories and historical memory. Connell’s case study, based on an archive of photographs of a
 working-class, multicultural, ‘red light’ district of Birmingham, demonstrates broader engagement
 by our urban historians with ‘hard-to-reach’ communities through strategic collaborations with
 public-history stakeholders such as galleries and museums. Further examples of research
 impact are detailed in Section 4.

 With the establishment of the CPH, engagement with difficult histories represents a strategic
 focus of our impact agenda. Our development of comparative approaches to contested histories
 has proven productive, particularly in linking our local expertise to global networks. Coleman’s
 Commemorating Partition and Civil Wars project brought South African, Finnish and American
 scholars to Belfast to reflect on their countries’ experiences of marking difficult anniversaries.
 The Competing Imperialisms Research Network (De Angeli) brings together UK and Japan-
 based scholars to pursue interdisciplinary approaches to conflict in Northeast Asia. QUOTE’s
 Dangerous Oral Histories conference attracted 200 delegates (2018). The CPH’s annual
 conferences centre on comparative themes marking contentious anniversaries (such as the
 legacy of anti-imperialism, 2019). Arising from his research on civil war in Africa, Morier-Genoud
 provided support to the recent peace negotiations in Mozambique. Kowalsky participated in
 colloquia marking anniversaries of the Bolshevik Revolution and Spanish Civil War. Working with
 the Royal Irish Academy and British Academy, our modern Irish historians are developing a
 series of online events and resources to mark the centenary of partition. McGarry is working with
 NMNI on its exhibition marking partition, while Urquhart and McGarry are consultants for a BBC
 documentary series on the centenary of partition.

 Open Research Environment:

 The unit is fully compliant with Open Access (OA) REF policies. A QUB Open Access team,
 based in the McClay Library, provides professional support, including training sessions for staff
 and students on OA, copyright, e-thesis and metrics. New staff, particularly from outside the UK,
 are appraised of OA requirements for REF and research grants. As part of our commitment to
 public engagement, staff are encouraged to disseminate findings through institutional blogs,
 media outlets such as The Conversation, and TV, press and radio. History staff at Queen’s are
 fully involved in national disciplinary debates about open research policy, particularly via RHS
 and History UK, through their roles as journal editors and executive members of history
 societies.

 Research Integrity:

 All research involving human participants or their data is reviewed by the HAPP Research Ethics
 Committee (REC) which assesses research proposals in accordance with the ESRC’s
 Framework for Research Ethics. Researchers must comply with the University’s Guidelines and
 Procedures Governing Ethics in Research. All research student projects undergo initial reviews
 to identify ethical issues, which are further discussed at their first annual progress review, with
 research plans requiring approval from the REC. Supervisors are responsible for ensuring that
 research students are aware of best ethical practice, and research students are also required to
 undertake regular training on these issues offered by both the REC and the institution. The
 University’s ethics policy is overseen centrally by a research governance office who conduct
 audits of the ethics application process.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Future research and impact strategy, 2021-2026

 Our REF 2014 aims emerged from the implementation of individual research targets, our
 ambition to secure funded PhDs through the NBCDTP, and our desire to contribute to the
 university’s interdisciplinary and internationalisation goals. Our success in these areas, and our
 desire to further develop our collective strengths, led to the adoption of the following goals. To:
      support our researchers effectively to pursue their individual research agendas
      harness their collaborative expertise to maximise research opportunities
      foster an atmosphere of equality and diversity that recognises increasing pressures on
         staff, particularly in early career
      disseminate our research as a wider social good through public engagement.

 These principles have shaped our new research strategy:
 1. Sustaining a vibrant research culture which balances ambition with workplace equality and
 diversity.
 2. Developing public engagement and collaboration to enhance impact.
 3. Developing the international reach of our research through strategic partnerships.
 4. Supporting interdisciplinary research.
 5. Growing our postgraduate and postdoctoral research community.

 We aim to achieve these aims by:
        (1) building on our expertise in gender, race, sexuality, and urban history through
        research activities and outputs to establish a profile that reflects the diversity of
        contemporary society
        (2) supporting the development of early career researchers through effective career
        planning and participation in research events.
        (3) sustaining and developing external partnerships through investment in the Centre for
        Public History.
        (4) developing international links through global networks and the hosting of scholars and
        conferences.
 2. People

 Central to History’s strategic aims in developing the individual and collective strengths of our unit
 is the promotion of a pluralistic and flexible approach to research. This has seen a shift from
 emphasis on individual targets towards a strategy that seeks to more effectively harness the
 unit’s collective strengths and promote staff wellbeing through manageable workloads and
 realistic progression profiles. Our research strategy aims to provide a supportive environment for
 our staff to flourish. We have a balanced profile of seven professors, six readers, seven senior
 lecturers, 14 lecturers (including four ECRs), of whom 14 are female (41%) and 17 are
 international (50%). We maintain strong connections with ten emeritus professors (Bowler,
 Brown, Campbell, Clarkson, Connolly, Flanagan, Hayton, Kennedy, O’Dowd, Whitehead).
 Although permanent staff numbers increased slightly, some turnover resulted from retirements
 and departures, with 11 new appointments and two colleagues who joined us as research
 fellows (Hannan, Malhotra) becoming full-time lecturers. Some specialisms, notably Intelligence
 history, saw disinvestment but strategic replacements enabled us to sustain core strengths and
 develop new expertise. Replacements in eighteenth-century Britain (Hannan) and early-modern
 Ireland (Campbell) strengthened our expertise in gender history, intellectual history and
 religious history. Appointments in modern British history (Connell, Hulme) enhanced our profile
 in urban history, race and sexuality. The appointment of Williams and Ribianszky sustained
 our expertise in race and gender – especially in the American South. Gender, a strength across
 the unit, was enhanced by replacements in late-medieval Ireland (Booker) and twentieth-century
 Europe (Cullen). Following a successful discipline-led application, and university investment,
 Urquhart was appointed to a chair of gender history (the first in Ireland). This appointment
 demonstrates university recognition of our expertise in gender, enabling us to attract new PhD
 and postdoctoral researchers. We addressed gaps in Imperial and global expertise through the
 appointment of Chinese (De Angeli) and Indian (Malhotra) specialists. Continuing university
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 investment is demonstrated by the appointment, just after the census date, of an environmental
 historian (Shin) as a VC Illuminate Fellow [IES3B].

 Reflecting our strategy of collectively harnessing our expertise through external collaborations,
 we developed relationships with visiting professors/fellows/scholars and students. Over this
 REF period, History hosted 14 visiting students and 36 visiting professors/fellows/scholars. A
 sustained collaboration with Armitage (Harvard), for example, resulted in public lectures,
 postgraduate masterclasses, and research symposia (including ‘Civil Wars’ in 2018) over
 several years.

 Our staff development strategy recognises the diversity of expertise and practices across our
 unit. Staff are not expected to devote equal effort to research, grant-capture, and impact at each
 stage of their career, and progression is evaluated by flexible criteria enabling research
 achievements to be assessed in the round. Quality of research outputs is prioritised over
 quantity. We see manageable workloads and staff wellbeing as essential to sustaining a
 productive research ethos (an approach which informs equality and diversity considerations
 outlined below).

 Career development support for staff includes sabbatical leave (one semester’s leave after six
 semesters’ service, including maternity leave): HAPP funded 40 semesters of sabbaticals since
 2013 (equivalent to 200 months of research leave). Staff taking research leave discuss, with the
 Director of Research, a plan for outputs, grant applications, internationalisation, and public
 engagement. Additional support and mentoring is provided for early career staff. Staff returning
 from maternity/parental leave are relieved of teaching for a semester to further their research:
 since adopting this policy in 2016, staff have availed of five semesters of such support. A
 streamlined appraisal process, introduced by QUB in 2019, supports staff development and
 progression. Staff are encouraged to raise their international profiles via bespoke publishing
 plans, cultivating recognized international measures of esteem, and engagement with
 professional associations. A generous School-administered research support fund (distributing
 c.£35k annually to History) enables colleagues to attend conferences, organise symposia,
 undertake research, and secure support for research initiatives, impact activities, and
 publications.

 Probationary, postdoctoral and contract staff are provided with academic mentors to advise on
 early career development. Our SWAN action plan embedded practical supports such as peer
 observation, pre-appraisal sessions, and support for postdoctoral and fixed-term staff to
 undertake career-development training such as our certificate in higher education. Probation
 (three years) ensures a supportive environment for less experienced colleagues through
 reduced (75%) teaching and administrative loads. New lecturers receive a university-allocated
 £4,000 start-up research fund. Teaching relief is provided through HAPP’s SWAN fund to
 support applications by ECRs to improve grant-capture rates and career progression. As far as
 is feasible, distinctions are not made between contract, postdoctoral, and permanent staff in
 terms of inclusion in research culture, REF initiatives, and research funding.

 QUB has adopted the new Researcher Development Concordat (2019). HAPP recently adopted
 an action plan to support postdoctoral research staff in career development and fuller
 integration into research culture. Initiatives include earmarking funding for PDRs working on
 other academics’ projects to develop independent research profiles, and a handbook outlining
 HAPP’s obligations to ECRs. History is represented on the postdoctoral group mentoring
 programme and Postdoctoral Researcher Forum established by QUB in 2018. Initiatives
 emerging from this include workshops on postdoctoral research and publishing; an annual
 showcase event; Postdoc Appreciation Week; and a Faculty Researcher of the Year prize and
 VC’s Postdoctoral Researcher Prize (won by Gannon in 2020) to reward exceptional
 contributions. Of 16 postdoctoral researchers employed at History during this REF period (with 5
 still in post), 4 are in research positions at Newcastle University (Dee; Somers); DCU
 (Mathieson) and UCC (Lucey), while 4 were appointed to lecturing positions at Carlow College
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Milne), Trinity College Dublin (Laragy), Ulster University (Carlsten) and Westminster
 Theological Seminary (Rester).

 During the 2019-20 academic year, History attracted 43 research students (an increase from
 32 in 2013-14). During this REF period 64 History research students completed PhDs. Over 40%
 of 2019-20 PGR students were funded, mainly by the DEL/DfE and AHRC NBCDTP but also
 through the European Research Council, China Scholarships Council, Horizon 2020 DTP, and
 NINE.

 Recruitment of research students reflects our overall research profile: 28, for example, are
 pursuing Irish topics. Other areas of strength include early modern religious history (10 PGRs)
 and modern British history (8 PGRs). Several PhD students are supervised across disciplines,
 primarily with English, Politics, Anthropology, Geography and Architecture.

 A significant number of research students are recruited from our MA programme which provide a
 source of strong home and international applicants. Our MA programme has expanded
 significantly, from 108 students (2008-13) to 300 students (2013-20). To promote collaboration
 across specialisms, our MA teaching was restructured with thematic strands on topics such as
 gender, race, and urban history replacing conventional geographical/chronological strands. In
 2018 we launched an MA in Public History, incorporating internships in museums, archives and
 heritage bodies.

 Our research students’ achievements attest to our vibrant research culture. During this REF
 period 14 of our graduates published monographs based on their dissertations on: British
 security policy (Aveyard), Baptist identity (Bingham), international anarchism (Brodie),
 creationism (Huskinson), Angevin Ireland (Brown), the Irish border (Leary), the Irish Revolution
 (Lewis, Magill), Belfast Labour (Loughlin), UK cinema (Manning), science and religion
 (Matthieson), loyalism (Mulvenna), Ulster playwrights (Parr), and evangelical Presbyterianism
 (Ritchie). Some 18 research students published 37 journal articles and three scholarly essays.
 Prize-winning students include Schultz (Scottish History Society Rosebery Prize, 2019) and
 Leary (American Conference for Irish Studies (ACIS) prize for Distinguished First Book, 2016).
 McNulty won a studentship at the Folger Library in Washington DC. Former research students
 secured fellowships or posts at: Bodleian Library; Holy Trinity Orthodox Seminary, New York;
 Oxford Brookes University; Oak Hill College, London; Reformed Presbyterian Theological
 Seminary, Pittsburgh; St. Antonio University, Texas; St. Xavier’s College, Kolkata; Sandhurst
 College; University of Hertfordshire; University College Dublin; University of Huddersfield;
 University of Manchester; University of Newcastle (Australia); University of Newcastle (UK);
 University of Northumbria; Ulster University; and De Montfort. Our graduates found employment
 in think-tanks (Westminster Forum Projects, Irish in Britain), consultancy firms, and the civil
 service.

 All History research students are provided with office space, designated desk, computer and
 other facilities, as well as shared communal spaces. Open-access computing facilities and
 research equipment is also provided by the Graduate School, a dedicated academic and social
 space facilitating interdisciplinary collaboration and PGR training. A PGR survey in 2019
 indicated a high level of satisfaction with workplace culture.

 AHRC NBCDTP and DfE studentships fund research students for research and conference
 travel, while NBCDTP fund six-month PGR placements (for example, Crangle and Hodson
 interned at the Oregon Jewish Museum in Portland and National Museum of Industrial Heritage,
 Pennsylvania). History also allocates funds (c.£500 p.a.) to non-funded research students, while
 students can also apply to School, Faculty and University initiatives for additional funding.

 The Director of Graduate Studies, aided by the Postgraduate Research Tutor, Postgraduate
 Research Culture Officer, and Teaching Assistant Coordinator, supports postgraduate students.
 The PGR Tutor provides pastoral care and monitors student progress through milestones from
 enrolment to submission. Research students undertake thirty days’ training over the course of
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 their PhD, comprising twenty days of structured training (in the form of specifically designed
 courses) and ten days of developmental training. These are selected from centrally co-ordinated
 PRDP courses, online learning, subject-specific training, and other training delivered by external
 bodies such as research councils. Training of research students at subject and School level,
 which is both structured and developmental, is tailored to students’ needs and agreed with their
 primary supervisor. Beyond participation in seminars and conferences, it may include courses on
 subject-specific research skills or external internship opportunities. Training events enable
 students to meet academic editors, undertake employability training, and participate in writing
 retreats. The School’s SWAN fund enables students to organise externally facilitated training
 that feed into the equality and diversity agenda. In 2018, topics included Trans Awareness by
 Transgender NI and ‘Overcoming Imposter Syndrome’. Research students are offered the
 opportunity to teach tutorials in modules convened by full-time staff. Postgraduate tutors
 complete a Small Group Training course provided by the Centre of Educational Development,
 and their teaching is overseen by a Teaching Assistant Coordinator from the History staff.
 University support has enabled 4 PGR students to obtain Associate Fellowship of the Higher
 Education Academy.

 Research progress is reviewed annually by a panel independent of the supervisory team.
 Research students meet supervisors at least 10 times each year. Minutes of supervisory
 meetings are accessible from the online Research Student Lifecycle which provides a
 transparent record of progress. Milestones, including three-month review, first-year
 differentiation, and subsequent Annual Progress Reviews, are recorded on the Research
 Student Lifecycle, with students receiving written feedback following each milestone.

 Beyond School level, the Graduate School provides additional support including training, skills
 workshops, and other events to enhance postgraduate research culture [IES2B-3C]. The
 Graduate School administers postgraduate awards; postgraduate skills training; supervisor
 training; and PGR career planning. It oversees research degree programmes and monitors their
 regulatory framework and quality assurance. The Postgraduate Researcher Development
 Programme (PRDP), to which Historians contribute, offers general skills-training for both PGR
 progress and career development. PDRP, intended to develop personal and professional skills
 to allow students to complete their degrees and pursue a career beyond academia, is aligned to
 the Researcher Development Framework.

 Comprising researchers from several disciplines, QUOTE provides training in oral history to
 research students through the provision of key resources and organisation of seminars,
 workshops and conferences. For example, a two-day AHRC-funded PGR/ECR workshop (2018)
 focused on recording, analysing and disseminating oral history testimony, while leading oral
 historians (e.g. Graham Smith, Wendy Ugolini, Jackie Clarke) visit the CPH, often at the
 invitation of PGR students. Research students have the opportunity to teach on an UG oral-
 history module, and to create case studies, drawing upon their oral history research, for the
 QUOTE website. Two students were awarded AHRC funding to extend their oral history
 expertise via internships in the USA, while another secured an Australian public-history
 internship.

 As a result of QUB’s membership of the NBCDTP, students funded by this scheme are
 integrated within a broader research culture providing formally recognised collaborative research
 support including supervision, training and development, and access to facilities that draw on the
 resources of the seven participating universities and their strategic partners. Collaborative
 training programmes developed with our NBCDTP consortium partners enable research
 students to participate in conferences, summer schools, completion and leadership workshops,
 and skills-training and career-development programmes. NBCDTP research students have
 undertaken six-month placements with partners including BBC NI and NMNI. Other studentships
 provide similar opportunities. For example, three PhD studentships (funded by the Marie
 Sklodowska Curie DTP, ESRC NINE DTP and China Scholarships Council) were supported by
 an interdisciplinary training programme involving placements with partners such as the China
 Customs Museum, Beijing.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 We seek to fully integrate research students within History’s research culture. Research students
 organise a weekly seminar series which forms an integral part of their training. They are likewise
 encouraged – and can seek School funding – to attend symposia, present research, organize
 research events, and speak at international conferences. The annual Irish History Students’
 Association Conference provides a valuable, supportive environment for early-stage researchers
 and staff, while research students are mentored by staff to organise an annual women’s history
 conference marking International Women’s Day. Funding is provided by HAPP, the Graduate
 School Postgraduate Student-Led Initiatives Scheme, and external bodies such as the AHRC
 and Royal Historical Society. Student-led conferences and workshops include Borderlines (2015,
 2018); Women and Religion (2018); Exploring Transnational History (2019); Anti-Communism in
 the Twentieth Century (2019); and Migration to the Margins (2019). The Postgraduate Research
 Culture officer, an academic, works with the postgraduate community to support student-led and
 other initiatives to sustain a vibrant research culture. Six core events are organised each year,
 culminating in a writing retreat for students and staff in the Mourne mountains.

 History is committed to workplace equality and diversity particularly in representation,
 progression and working practices. We engage fully with QUB’s equality and diversity
 procedures set out in the IES [IES3D], as well as its staff-led race and sexuality groups iRISE
 and PRISM. Our School holds two SWAN bronze awards and submitted for renewal in
 November 2020. The School’s lead SWAN champion comes from History and History is
 represented by research students on the HAPP SWAN Committee which formulates and
 embeds equality and diversity. The History SWAN Champion sits on the Senior Management
 Board and HAPP Research Committee, and represents HAPP at the monthly University SWAN
 Champions’ meetings. In accordance with our action plan, SWAN is a standing item on the
 agenda at every School committee. Our commitment to identifying and addressing gender and
 equality issues, and to developing good practice was demonstrated by the attainment of a
 SWAN bronze award in 2016, and Farrell’s invitation to address heads of schools and managers
 at Trinity College Dublin and Irish HE historians at University College Dublin.

 Following our 2016 bronze award, HAPP implemented a comprehensive SWAN action plan to
 advance four strategic equality and diversity priorities: strengthening career planning for staff
 and research students; ensuring balanced gender representation in key areas; promoting family-
 friendly policies; and consolidating an inclusive and supportive ethos. Specific objectives
 included ensuring equality in the appointment and progression of academic and support staff,
 among the postgraduate and ECR community, in teaching, and in student recruitment. Several
 notable initiatives have taken place. Gender and equality culture surveys and focus groups were
 promoted, involving academic and support staff, postdoctoral researchers, and research
 students to assess experiences and formulate actions (most recently in 2018). A significant
 action towards ensuring equality beyond gender issues was the creation of anti-harassment
 guides for students and staff to accompany university polices. Staff inputted via a survey and
 workshop and students via the HAPP SWAN Student Forum. The School SWAN team
 established advisory sessions for HAPP staff involved in probation, appraisal or promotion
 processes, networking events for female researchers within HAPP, family-friendly advice for
 visitors to the university (which was adopted beyond HAPP), and measures to ‘gender-proof’
 teaching modules. HAPP adopted family-friendly scheduling of meetings; alignment of reading
 weeks with school half-term; and the promotion of gender and equality awareness through
 information dissemination. Several innovative SWAN initiatives were implemented to promote
 equality of research opportunities. For example, staff returning from maternity leave receive a
 teaching-free semester to renew their research trajectories. Early career researchers are
 provided with targeted teaching or assessment relief to support major-grant applications.
 Equality and diversity actions plans are continually monitored and revised, while HAPP also
 engages with the university’s Queen’s Gender Initiative [IES3E]. The CPH steering group
 invited colleagues working on BAME history-related areas to plan the Centre’s second major
 conference (on Imperialism and anti-Imperialism, 2019) which brought international scholars
 working on race and BAME histories to engage with our staff and PGRs.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In developing our REF submission, History adhered to QUB’s code of practice which reflect the
 principles of transparency, accountability, consistency, and inclusivity. History staff involved in
 REF submissions were provided with equality and diversity training to ensure their decisions
 reflect principles of equality, diversity, sustainability and inclusion.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 A strategic aim in this REF period was to increase research income to enhance the quality of our
 outputs. History secured income of £5.1 million for research projects during August 2013 to July
 2020, more than doubling grant income from the previous REF period (£2.2million). Income
 steadily increased most years since 2013, not falling below £426k and peaking in 2018-19 at £1
 million. 71% of staff obtained external research funding in this REF period. We secured most
 funding from UK Research Councils (33%), EU grants (22%), central government bodies (40%)
 and charities (4%).

 Large grants awarded to History PIs include: Crafting Knowledge in the Early Medieval West
 (O’Sullivan: AHRC, £171k); Popular Protestantism, 1859-1939 (Holmes: Leverhulme, £95k);
 Global History of Irish Revolution (McGarry: AHRC, £684k); Hit Songs in Seventeenth-Century
 England (Marsh: AHRC, £252k); Medieval Street Life: Space, Culture and Commerce in English
 Towns, 1200-1500 (Davis: British Academy, £104k); Mozambique Peace Negotiation (Morier-
 Genoud, HD Centre for Humanitarian Dialogue, £96k); Mother and Baby Homes (O’Connell: NI
 Dept. of Health, £186k, QUB/UU); The Meanings of the Mayflower, 1620-2020 (Hulme: AHRC,
 £240k); War and the Supernatural in Early Modern Europe (Campbell: ERC, €1.3m).

 Other significant grants secured by History PIs include Commemorating Partition and Civil Wars
 in Ireland (Coleman: AHRC, £21k); Competing Imperialisms Research Network (De Angeli:
 ESRC/AHRC, £50k); Conjuring India: Authors, Publishers and Readers, 1814-1899 (Malhotra:
 British Academy, £58k); Developing Future Leaders in the Arts and Humanities (Connell: AHRC,
 £16k); Heritage Connects (Purdue and Hannan: Wellcome Trust, £32k); Northern Ireland’s 2016
 (Coleman: AHRC/RoI government (£20k)); Ulster-Scots Contribution to Political Thought in
 Ireland since 1600 (Walker: DCAL, £55k).

 Research income is pursued, not as an end in itself, but to develop our staff’s career and
 research, to support the appointment of new postdoctoral and postgraduate researchers, and to
 enhance our research culture. One indication of the effectiveness of our research strategy is the
 award of Vice-Chancellor’s Prizes [IES3A]. Historians have recently won prizes for Early Career
 Research (Hannan), Research Innovation (Marsh) and Postdoctoral Research (Gannon), and
 were short-listed for Impact (McGarry and Purdue), Early Career Research (Connell), and
 Research Culture (CPH).

 The following indicative examples demonstrate how funded research has supported staff
 development and research culture:

 Early career development:
 Arriving at QUB as an ECR in 2014, Campbell availed of support thorough peer review,
 mentoring, grant-writing and budget-planning advice from the R&E Directorate, and university
 funding (including a £5k research initiative award) enabling him to develop an ambitious
 research agenda and network, culminating in a €1.3 ECR grant award. This project allowed him
 to build a team of two research fellows and one graduate student, supported by an international
 scholarly network, which has pioneered early-modern scholarship on war and religion.

 Establishing research leadership:
 O’Sullivan secured a Leverhulme International Fellowship in 2017 that enabled her to develop
 (via a series of residential fellowships) a scholarly network, leading to the award of an AHRC-
 leadership fellowship in 2020-21 that positions her as a leading authority on early-medieval
 knowledge. Sabbatical leave, support from the School’s research fund, a faculty research
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 initiative award, the sharing of grant applications and peer review and mentoring, and support
 from R&E in grant-writing laid the foundations for this success.

 Public engagement:
 Hulme, an ECR, drew on expertise in public history developed at QUB to secure a £240k AHRC-
 funded project (2018-21) exploring the cultural meanings of the Mayflower since 1620, further
 enhancing the CPH’s public history profile. His growing research portfolio and leadership have
 been recognised at QUB through early promotion.

 Building a research profile:
 Participation as a CI in large grants has helped ECR staff to develop their careers and expertise.
 For example, supported by the Research Office and peer review of research applications, Farrell
 secured funding as CI for ‘Bad Bridget: criminal and deviant Irish women in North America’
 (AHRC: £210k, 2015-19), a project drawing on her work on gender developed through her QUB
 PhD. This raised her profile as a research leader in this field, attracting research students, and
 contributing to her promotion to SL. Calvert, a QUB PhD graduate employed as a PDR on this
 project, secured a permanent lectureship and British Academy funding for a related project,
 demonstrating how funded projects help build research networks. Farrell submitted an AHRC
 follow-on funding application (2020) to work with NMNI to develop a museum exhibition on ‘Bad
 Bridget’, a testbed for a permanent exhibition at the Ulster American Folk Park.

 History deploys a range of strategies to generate research income. As set out in the IES, QUB’s
 infrastructure to support grant applications is extensive [IES4A-B]. Effective interplay between
 interlinked support structures at University, Faculty, School, and discipline level is crucial.
 Measures undertaken at unit/School level include:

    Chaired by the HAPP Director of Research, the Research Committee develops research
     strategy, communicates funding opportunities, and organises workshops to support grant
     applications.
    The HAPP Director of Research, and History Research Lead advise staff how to avail of
     University support for developing applications. History staff secured support from the
     Faculty Research Grant Enabler Fund; Faculty Research Grant Incentivisation Scheme;
     Faculty Research Initiatives Fund; REF support fund; and Research Grant Enabler Fund.
    A HAPP Research/PGR Administrator (and three clerical staff) advise on project financial
     management, recruitment of PDRAs, and grant logistics.
    Research expertise (e.g. developing new projects, devising pathways to impact, and writing
     applications) is shared through research days, workshops and the exchanging of
     applications.
    A HAPP research support budget funds research activity including pre-bid funding,
     fieldwork support and publication subventions.
    Teaching relief is offered to early-career staff to support the writing of grant applications, a
     SWAN initiative developed after data indicated that male staff applied for larger grants than
     female staff (averaging £152,805 compared to £49,968).
    Staff liaise with the R&ED to identify funding opportunities; develop research, impact and
     engagement; and submit applications [IES4A-B]. The directorate includes staff with expertise
     on public engagement, including a Faculty Impact Officer who works with HAPP’s Impact
     lead. Co-ordinated by R&ED, peer review has substantially increased the success rate of
     grant applications.
    Contacts with key funding bodies are maintained through hosted visits (British Academy,
     2015; AHRC, 2018) and other activities.

 Located on a Victorian terrace at the heart of the campus, History has excellent facilities. Staff
 have their own single-person offices, with access to a large common room for coffee mornings
 and discussion groups, as well as a range of meeting/seminar rooms. Additional rooms are
 provided for postgraduate students, postdoctoral fellows, visiting/emeritus scholars. We also
 have an allocated room for breastfeeding. Staff and PGR IT equipment is regularly updated by
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Queen’s Information Services. The Institute of Irish Studies has its own dedicated office space
 for staff, PGRs and visiting researchers and a large, fully equipped seminar room.

 The University’s recently-built £40 million McClay Library is home to a superb collection of
 books, manuscripts, and periodicals including 1.2 million volumes, 2,000 print- and 20,000
 electronic journal titles. Facilities include IT suites, computing and media services, a Language
 Centre, support areas and a café. Special Collections houses specialist printed and manuscript
 sources. A newly-established exhibition space allows historians to develop exhibitions to
 showcase projects and support events (such as the Celebrating Gender History conference,
 2019). Each School is supported by a qualified Subject Librarian. HAPP receives an annual
 budget (£54,000) for book purchases and journal subscriptions.

 Research at HAPP is supported by 20 professional support staff (1 per 4 academic staff).
 Three staff are responsible for supporting the Research Committee, PGR-related matters, and
 research support, funding and administration.

 History supports a wide range of seminar programmes which brings numerous scholars to QUB,
 sustaining a vibrant research culture. For example, in 2018-19 the Research Seminar hosted 18
 talks over the academic year, including four visiting scholars. Numerous workshops, symposia
 and conferences were organised or hosted by researchers, reflecting particular areas of
 expertise as well as individual staff interests, often leading to scholarly publications (*). These
 include:
 - Ireland: Poverty and Famine in Ireland (2014); Ulster Scots and Political Thought (2015);
 Remembering 1916 (2015)*; Welfare and Public Health in the Industrial City (2015); Re-
 examining Irish Nationalism in Ulster (2016); The Great Famine and Social Class (2017)*;
 History of Africans in Northern Ireland (2017); African Studies in Ireland (2018); Remembering
 1968: The Civil Rights Movement in Ireland (2018); Ireland in East Asia: Nationalism,
 Colonialism, Imperialism (2018); Ireland and China, 1735-1949 (2018); Ireland and missions
 (2019); 1969: The Outbreak of the Troubles (2019).
 - Public history: New Approaches to Public History (2016); Commemorating Civil Wars (2017);
 Why Public History? (2017); The Memory of the Russian Revolution (2017); Dangerous Oral
 Histories (2018); People’s Histories? Photography, Public History and Museums (2018); Moving
 Statues – Shifted Meanings: Contested Memorials in Ireland and the US South (2018); Civil
 Wars (2018); Uncovering Material Knowledge (2019).
 - World: Death of the Charismatic Leader (2014); Socialism and the Cold War in Western
 Europe (2015); The Politics of Consumer Credit in Europe and the USA since 1945 (2015);
 Photography in Modern Chinese History and Historiography (2017)*; Sounding Violence. Music,
 Ritual and Poetry in Contemporary West Africa (2017)’ Competing Imperialisms in North East
 Asia (Japan, 2019; Belfast, 2019; St. Petersburg, 2020).*
 - Urban studies: Irish Urban Spaces (2014)*; Eighteenth-Century Urban Cultures (2020).
 - Early modern: War and the University in the Sixteenth Century (2018)*; Scientiae: Disciplines
 of Knowing in the Early Modern World (2019).
 - Religion: Bringing the Social back into the Sociology of Religion (2014).*
 - Gender: Celebrating Gender History (2019); Women and Religion (2018); Women on the Move
 (2017); Women’s History Association of Ireland annual conference (2016); Women, Law and
 Disorder (2015).
 - Britain: Scotland’s Choice: Reshaping Relationships (2014); Cross-currents in British and Irish
 Working-class Life (2016).

 Collaborating with external networks or institutions, History staff helped organise the following
 conferences: Figures of Authority in 19th c. Ireland (Irish College, Leuven, 2017); Networks of
 Media and Print in the Age of Imperialism (University of Warwick, 2015); The Social Eye of Janet
 Mendelsohn (Library of Birmingham, 2016); Ethics and Commemoration (Royal Irish Academy,
 2016); The Politics of Consumer Credit in Europe and the USA since 1945 (Paris Nanterre,
 2016); Africa in Ireland/Ireland in Africa (Trinity College Dublin, 2017); Urban History Group
 (Royal Holloway, 2017); Urban Belonging (IHR, 2017); Urban History conference (Keele, 2018);
 International Congress on the Enlightenment (University of Edinburgh, 2019); Global Irish
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Revolution* (University of Edinburgh, 2019); Ireland, the Revolution, and First World War (Irish
 Cultural Centre, Paris).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 A principal aim was to develop partnerships internationally and with disciplinary networks and
 public bodies. A core development since the last REF to support this is the creation of the
 Centre for Public History. Funding and support has also been offered through a Director of
 Internationalisation and the university’s internationalisation strategy. Arrangements to support
 international collaborations, networks, partnerships and projects have been outlined in Section 1.

 This support enables staff to sustain structured research links to colleagues and universities
 across the UK, Ireland, Europe, North America, Africa and Asia. For example, History staff
 belong to 16 international research networks led by universities based at Antwerp, Belfast,
 Charleston, Durham, Frankfurt, Göttingen, Liverpool, Manchester, Michigan, Montreal,
 Nijmegen, Swansea, and York.

 The effectiveness of this strategy is evidenced by the funding of seven international networks
 or collaborative research projects led by History staff during this REF period. Their range is
 evidenced by the following three examples.
      McGarry’s AHRC-funded project, A Global History of Irish Revolution, supported a three-
        year collaboration with the University of Edinburgh and Boston College.
      Campbell’s ERC-funded War and Supernatural in Early Modern Europe project supports
        a collaboration with historians at Oxford, Cambridge, the Sorbonne and Notre Dame.
      De Angeli and Reisz’s research on QUB’s Hart collection led to ESRC and AHRC
        projects which forged collaborations with the Chiang Ching-Kuo Foundation; National
        Taiwan Museum; National Army Museum; Freer Sackler Museum, Smithsonian
        Institution; the China Customs Museum, Beijing and Chinese Academy of Social
        Sciences.

 The vitality of our international connections is also evidenced by the range of fellowships held
 by staff, facilitated by the implementation of regular sabbaticals. During this REF period 14 staff
 held or were awarded 20 different prestigious fellowships, including in Boston, Charleston,
 Washington DC, New York, New Brunswick, Berlin, Munich, Amsterdam, Paris, Jerusalem,
 Madras, Vandoeuvers, and Parana. These intensified international collaboration, contributing
 directly to further grant awards (O’Sullivan and Holmes).

 A commitment to the value of our research for wider society and economy, in Northern Ireland
 and beyond, is a guiding principle of our research strategy. Collaborating with diverse
 organisations, we have a strong record for public engagement and research impact. Whether as
 historical consultants, advisors, stakeholders or interviewees, our historians engage regularly in
 initiatives that have a significant social impact. These include:
       Collaborations with heritage organisations (National Trust; Historic Royal Palaces);
          museums (Armagh County Museum; GPO Witness History; Mid-East Antrim Museum;
          NMNI; Ulster American Folk Park; Titanic Belfast); and archives (National Archives of
          Ireland, Public Record Office of Northern Ireland). For example, Purdue, who led an
          archiving project for Clifton House, Belfast’s 18th-century poorhouse, is now working with
          the HLF-funded Great Place North Belfast initiative, a collaboration between fifteen
          heritage organisations to support regeneration in north Belfast.
       Contributing to educational initiatives such as the Ulster-Scots Education project and
          Nerve Centre’s Teaching Divided History project.
       Advising on, or writing reports, for government working groups (British Foreign and
          Commonwealth Affairs; Chatham House; Westminster Parliamentary committee on
          abortion law in NI; Irish Dept. of Foreign Affairs; Northern Ireland Office of Public
          Prosecutions).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Collaborating with local government bodies and NGOs, particularly on contentious
        anniversaries (Belfast City Council; Community Relations Council; Department for
        Communities; Department of Health).
       Disseminating expert opinion through media (ABC News; Al Jazeera; BBC; CBC News;
        Channel 4; CNN International; NPR; RTÉ, SKY NEWS, UTV). Staff regularly provide
        expert commentary for local media such as the Belfast Newsletter; Belfast Telegraph and
        national newspapers and media outlets such as The Conversation, The Guardian,
        History and Policy, The Independent; Irish Times, LSE IDEAS, openDemocracy, New
        Statesman, The American Interest, Wall Street Journal.
       Acting as historical consultants for production companies and the heritage sector.

 In addition to conventional forms of public engagement, innovative staff initiatives include:
      Gruelling Ordeals: the Irish workhouse diet, 1850-1950, an immersive sensory encounter
         with the diets of Belfast’s poorest inhabitants.
      Bad Bridget: Past and Present, a workshop that brought together historians of migration
         with legal experts to discuss links between historical and contemporary issues facing
         migrants and women accused of criminality.
      The Lively Project (Wellcome Trust/Arts Council) explored how culture can promote
         public understanding of aging.
      Collaborating with the Carnival Band, Marsh recorded and performed 100 seventeenth-
         century ballads at a series of concerts, creating a new corpus of text and performance.
      McGarry and Purdue’s research on the Easter Rising and Belfast’s Outdoor Relief Riots
         was dramatized by leading playwrights (Jimmy Murphy, Gary Mitchell, Martin Lynch) for
         productions in Dublin, London, Manchester and New York.

 Based in a polarised society, this UoA has a strong tradition of engaging with contested history.
 Creating safe spaces for dangerous topics, initiatives such as Gray’s Troubles witness seminars
 make an important contribution to civic society. The Centre for Public History has identified
 responsible public engagement, characterised by sensitivity to the role of history in divided
 societies, as a key theme.

 The CPH offers members of the public, historians, and practitioners the chance to debate history
 in the public sphere. The Centre hosts monthly seminars with invited speakers who research
 public history topics, both global and local in scope. It also runs the Histories in the Making
 series which invites public history professionals to discuss their work. We host lectures and
 masterclasses where leading international public history researchers (e.g. Amanda Vickery) and
 practitioners discuss their work. The Keith Jeffery Public History Lecture provides an annual
 platform for a senior scholar to reflect on contemporary issues in public history: for example,
 Deborah Mack, director of the Smithsonian National Museum of African-American History and
 Catherine Hall spoke on race and slavery. The CPH’s annual conference has established itself
 as an important research forum, highlighting the Centre’s expertise in difficult histories,
 promoting links with scholars in these fields, and encouraging engagement in these areas by our
 students.

 Further demonstrating our commitment to bringing history to the public, staff led by Purdue
 created a new MA strand (2010) and then a distinct MA in Public History (2019) to train the next
 generation of public-history professionals. Graduates (c.150 to date) have secured work with
 employers such as the National Trust and Public Record Office of Northern Ireland, and with
 Public History projects such as Great Place North Belfast. As well as training professionals, this
 programme builds relationships and identifies research projects, which has led to students
 embarking on collaborative doctoral projects with Hillsborough Castle, Belfast City Council,
 Clifton House, and the Ulster Museum.

 The effectiveness of our research collaborations is demonstrated by the development of a
 close relationship with National Museums Northern Ireland (NMNI). This originated from a
 collaboration between History staff and NMNI in a HLF-funded initiative to redevelop the Ulster
 Museum’s modern galleries in 2014. Its success led to a more sustained partnership to
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 redevelop the museum’s Troubles Gallery through a project, Collecting the Troubles and
 Beyond, involving a DfE-funded History research student and an advisory body of historians and
 curators who met regularly from the project’s conception to the opening of the exhibition (2018).
 The success of this pioneering model of collaboration led to the formation of a cross-institutional
 strategic partnership between QUB, Ulster University and NMNI to advance cultural research,
 maximise public engagement and support the development of staff and research students.

 Another project demonstrating our wider contribution to society is O’Connell’s ‘Mother and
 baby homes/Magdalene laundries in Northern Ireland’ project (2018-19, £186k, QUB/UU).
 Funded by the Northern Irish Department of Health, this project – utilising O’Connell’s oral
 history expertise to interview former residents of the homes – led to a report on conditions in
 mother and baby homes/Magdalene laundries that will inform debates in the Stormont Assembly
 regarding the potential establishment of redress boards for victims of these institutions. A
 website, exhibition and verbatim theatre project are further planned outcomes. Drawing on the
 CPH’s established profile, and oral history methodologies pioneered by QUOTE, this project
 exemplifies our social historians’ willingness to apply their expertise to contemporary issues.
 Urquhart, for example, drew on her expertise in the history of abortion to advise Irish
 government ministers prior to the repeal of the 8th amendment in 2018.

 QUB historians contribute to their discipline through diverse scholarly and research activities.
 Staff hold leading roles within international associations and host major international
 conferences (see above). Staff were prominent in disciplinary bodies during this REF period.
 Connolly served as Vice-President of the Royal Historical Society (2014-16), while Marsh serves
 as a member of its council, and on the advisory council for the Institute of Historical Research.
 O’Dowd served as the Royal Irish Academy’s Secretary for Humanities. Ten History staff active
 during this REF period as permanent/emeritus staff (Bowler; Connolly; Flanagan; Gray; Hayton;
 Jeffery; Kennedy; Marsh; McGarry and O’Dowd) are members of the Royal Irish Academy,
 Ireland’s leading learned society, while two (Bowler; Connolly) are British Academy fellows. Our
 staff are active members/fellows of 35 scholarly organisations throughout the UK, Ireland,
 Europe, the US, Africa, and Asia, demonstrating both the diversity of our research expertise and
 our collective commitment to our discipline.

 During this REF period staff (both experienced and ECR) sat on advisory bodies/boards or
 society committees/councils of the following organisations which often play an important role
 in bringing scholarly expertise to a wider audience: British Association of Irish Studies; Church of
 Ireland Historical Centenaries Committee; Classical Association (UK); Classical Association in
 Northern Ireland; Classical Association of Ireland; Community Relations Council/HLF
 Roundtable on Marking Anniversaries; (Irish) Department of Defence Military Service Pensions
 Collection advisory committee; Economic and Social History Society of Ireland; Economic
 History Society; Ethical, Political, Legal and Philosophical Studies Committee, Royal Irish
 Academy; Historical Studies Committee, Royal Irish Academy; Irish Committee of Historical
 Sciences; Irish Manuscripts Commission; National Museum of Ireland; Oral History Network of
 Ireland; Society for the Study of Labour History; Ulster Society for Irish Historical Studies;
 Women’s History Association of Ireland.

 Our staff are committed to broader public engagement: Purdue, for example, is a Director of the
 Irish Museums Association and a Governor of the Linen Hall Library, while McGarry is on the
 steering committee of the EU-funded (€1.82m) Making the Future consortium of leading cultural
 institutes which draws on museum and archive collections to develop cross-border/community
 peacebuilding programmes.

 During this REF period staff have edited the following journals: Chinese Historical Review;
 History Ireland; Irish Historical Studies; Journal of the History of Ideas; Labour History Review;
 Oral History; Parliamentary History; Social Sciences and Missions; South Asia; Urban History.

 Staff are advisory/editorial board members of: Americana: The Journal of American Popular
 Culture; Bibliography of British and Irish History; Irish Historical Monographs series (Boydell and
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Brewer); British Journal of Military History; Christianities in the Trans-Atlantic World series
 (Palgrave), Childhood in the Past; Dictionary of Irish Biography (Royal Irish Academy); History
 Ireland; Irish Historical Studies; Oral History; Religion in the Roman Empire; Scottish Religious
 Cultures (Edinburgh UP); Sermon Studies (Marshall University); The Public Historian; Ulster
 Historical Foundation; Working in the Middle Ages series (Boydell & Brewer). This activity
 reflects both the diversity of our research interests, as well as our scholarly impact in particular
 fields such as modern Irish, British, urban, labour and oral history.

 Prizes for publications during this REF period include: ACIS Prize for Books on History and
 Social Sciences (Booker); ACIS Prize for Distinguished First Book (Booker); Forkosch Prize
 (Campbell); Rembert Patrick Award (Stanonis); NUI Publication Prize in Irish History (Farrell);
 and Longford Prize for Biography (Hayton). Staff and students were also nominated for the RHS
 Whitfield Prize (Connell; Leary).

 International recognition of our expertise, and our disciplinary engagement, is demonstrated by
 staff peer review for scholarly organisations. Davis, for example, serves on the peer review
 college for the UKRI’s Future Leaders. During this REF period, our staff have peer-reviewed
 research, studentship or fellowship applications for: Academy of Finland Irish Research
 Council; Agha Khan Fondation; AHRC; British Academy; Carnegie Trust; Dutch Council for the
 Humanities (KNAW); Dutch Research Council (NWO); European Research Council; ESRC;
 Herzog August Bibliothek, Wolfenbuettel, Germany; Leverhulme Trust; National Research
 Foundation of South Africa; NUI Post-Doctoral Fellowship in History; Polish National Foundation;
 Portuguese National Foundation; Research Foundation of Flanders; Royal Society of Edinburgh
 workshops; Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada; South African
 National Research Foundation Thuthuka; Swiss National Foundation; Trinity College Dublin
 Long Room Hub fellowships.

 Staff have peer-reviewed for over 73 scholarly journals and 32 academic publishers. Ranging
 from ancient to modern history, and from leading to more specialist publications, this activity also
 reflects our strength in modern Irish, British and American history; the history of religion; and
 gender, race, urban, and public history.
