Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Exeter

 Unit of Assessment: 23
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context
 Research in the Graduate School of Education (GSE) (based in the College of Social Sciences
 and International Studies) focuses on the complex interaction of educational theory, policy and
 practice within and across disciplinary and professional contexts. Our five Research Centres, with
 expertise in writing, special educational needs, STEM education, professional learning, and social
 mobility, work collaboratively with a broad range of beneficiaries including practitioners, industry,
 policymakers and third sector organisations, to address educational issues. Its co-location on the
 St Luke’s Campus of the University of Exeter with the College of Medicine and Health (CMH) and
 close relationship with the Wellcome Centre for Cultures and Environments of Health has provided
 opportunities for the cross-fertilisation of ideas for research (see 1.3) and triggered investment in
 shared facilities (see Section 3). The formation of an interdisciplinary planning group and
 institutional support for the St Luke’s Campus research show-case events for staff and post-
 graduate students adds further impetus for collaboration on GSE’s future research priorities in
 inclusive approaches to health and wellbeing in schools, and the impact of digitalisation and AI on
 professional education (see 1.5).

 In 2014 we set out five aims for the subsequent REF period:
    I.  Secure sustainability by recruiting high quality research staff to reach a staffing base of 30
        active researchers – we have overachieved this with 42 (see Section 2)
   II.  Invest in the development of our Research Centres to achieve a minimum of 5 core
        members – this has been met and, in most cases, exceeded (see Table 1)
  III.  Strengthen international partnerships by each Centre having at least one key international
        partner and an international collaborative grant – this has been met (see 1.3)
  IV.   Strengthen the intellectual climate and research experience of our doctoral students
        through engagement with the Economic and Social Research council (ESRC) Doctoral
        Training College – this has been addressed (see 1.2 and Section 2)
   V.   Develop greater understanding of impact with each Centre developing its own impact
        strategy – impact is firmly embedded in our Centres, as demonstrated by the portfolio of
        Impact Case Studies submitted for REF 2021 (see 1.3).

 1.2 Structure
 GSE’s operational structure is based on Research Centres augmented by interconnecting
 networks (Table 1). Centres provide critical mass to support the career development of Early
 Career Researchers (ECR) and Post Graduate Researchers (PGR), encourage collaborative
 working, build sustainable external partnerships, and create impact by increasing visibility as a
 conduit for knowledge exchange with stakeholders. Our Centres support interdisciplinarity, driving
 research collaboration across disciplines (see 1.3 and 4.1). Staff choose to be core members of
 one of our Centres and may also be an associate member of another Centre. The boundaries of
 Centres are permeable and form coalitions of activity and research interest for staff at every career
 stage and for our diverse PGR community.

 Research is co-ordinated by the Director of Research (DoR) who sits on the GSE Executive Group
 and the College of Social Sciences and International Studies (SSIS) Research and Impact
 Strategy Group (RISG). RISG provides a forum for DoRs from across SSIS to respond to external
 opportunities, identify future directions of research and share good practice. The Associate Dean
 for Research (ADR) chairs RISG and supports the alignment of the development of the GSE
 strategy with College and University of Exeter (UoE) priorities. Centre and Network Leads
 constitute the Director of Research Advisory Group (DoRAG). They are responsible for preparing
 annual research plans and managing a budget from SSIS to pump-prime research activity. In the
 current REF period, more than £88k has been distributed to support activities including cross-
 professional student internships, hosting seminars to disseminate research and funding for post-
 doctoral support for preparation of research bids.

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Table 1
   Research Centres                   People                              Networks
  Centre for Research        Myhill – Abdollahzadeh,
    in Writing (CRW)         Dowdall, Durrant*, Jones,
                                     Newman
                              Watson, Wilson, Zhang

   Centre for Special     Norwich – Anglin-Jaffe, Black,
  Educational Needs        Boyle, Knowler, Koutsouris,
     and Disability          Lawson, Moore, Rivzi**            Language and Education (LEN)
        (SEND)                                                  Race, Ethnicity and Education
  Centre for Research       Dillon – Chappell***, Fujita,                   (REEN)
  in STEM Education             Hetherington, Kleine-        Creativity and Emergent Educational
     (CRiSTEME)                      Staarman,                          Futures (CEEN)
                              Larkin, Mansour, Ralph          Religion, Spirituality and Education
                                                                            (RSEN)
  Centre for Research       Baumfield & Mattick – Allan,
    in Professional           Doney, Freathy****D. Hall,
   Learning (CRPL)           E.Hall, Robinson, Stentiford,
                                      Walshe, Xiao
     Centre for Social          Mountford-Zimdars &
      Mobility (CSM)          Sinclair – Banerjee, Barg,
                                       Elliot-Major
 Centre Leads in bold. *Lead for Language and Education Network **Lead for Race, Ethnicity
 and Education Network ***Lead for Creativity and Emergent Educational Futures Network
 ****Lead for Religion, Spirituality and Education Network

 Each member of staff is allocated an Academic Lead to advise on research plans and provide
 support. Staff can apply for study leave every three years and are actively encouraged to build
 this into research plans. Support for conference attendance and other research networking activity
 is provided by individual Annual Research Allowances, which can be used flexibly. ECRs and
 PGRs are actively involved in developing our research culture through membership of Centres
 and by their representatives on the Research Review Group (RRG), which meets bi-monthly. The
 DoR’s annual budget funds the annual St Luke’s Day Lecture, additional external lectures with
 speakers nominated by Research Centres and three Research Development Workshops for all
 staff. Administrative support for research applications and awards is provided by a dedicated
 Research Development Manager and academic support through an internal peer review process.
 We are also able to draw on support from the SSIS Business Partner and the UoE Innovation,
 Impact and Business (IIB) Directorate. The ADR holds a discretionary budget for pump-priming
 projects leading to external grant applications such as the scoping review of literature on
 characteristics of professional learning by CRPL. College funded mobility fellowships fund visits
 to overseas partners and facilitate invitations to visiting fellows (see 1.3 and Section 3). UoE is
 one of 26 institutions to receive £1.1 million ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) funding (see
 Institutional Level Environment Statement 4.10 (hereafter ILES)). Researchers in GSE secured
 £77k IAA funding for work on educational solutions to social and economic challenges. Projects
 funded through IAA include: CRPL with partners from NHS Trusts and the Department of Health
 Northern Ireland on optimising feedback conversations, contributing to a successful Marie Curie
 bid worth £50k; CRISTEME with the Science and Technology Facilities Council to develop the
 creative pedagogy for the successful Erasmus+ grant worth €76,776; SEND and the National
 Association for Special Educational Needs on the use of Lesson Study with outcomes recognised
 in one of our Impact Case Studies.


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The ESRC South West Doctoral Training Partnership (SWDTP) provides opportunities for our
 PGR students to benefit from interaction with leading social scientists beyond the university,
 access to innovative research methods and to sources of funding (ILES 1.8). The Effective and
 Innovative Communication of Research Conference which had input from both academics and
 students was hosted by GSE with 150 people attending. One of our PGR students is organising a
 national Research Ethics Conference in 2021 (see 1.4). The Cohort Building Fund supported a
 series of ‘Shut Up and Write’ sessions organised by a PGR and attended by an average of 10
 people over 23 sessions (also see Section 2). Our annual Staff-Student Research Conference, a
 co-created event led by PGRs, augments the activities of the SWDTP by providing an opportunity
 to present education focused research.

 1.3 Research and Impact Strategy
 Our Research and Impact Strategy is co-created by all research-active colleagues, guided by
 our aims and mediated through their participation in setting Research Centre priorities. This is
 reflected in how we have addressed our key areas of development (see 1.1), and in our future
 goals (see 1.5)
      Recruitment (also see Section 2)
             o We have built research capacity in specialist areas: professional learning in
                teacher education and medical education, leadership and international policy
                studies, environmental education, applied linguistics, inclusive education and
                psychology, social mobility;
             o Extended our expertise in: quantitative research methods, secondary data
                analysis and data linkage

       Research Centre Development (also see Centre profiles below)
           o Introduced annual reviews of Centre plans to balance individual career
              trajectories with inclusive groupings;
           o Refocused the remit of the Centre for Research in Higher Education to
              encompass learning across the professions and form a new Centre (CRPL) with
              co-leadership from GSE and CMH;
           o Extended the scope of STEM research to include Environmental Education and
              Sustainability to form CRISTEME;
           o Established a new Centre for Social Mobility with co-leadership from GSE and the
              University’s Director for Widening Participation;
           o Improved connectivity between Centres and Networks to facilitate cross-
              fertilisation of ideas, provided funding to support networking activity and
              established a new network (REEN)

       International partnerships (also see Centre profiles below)
            o Promoted collaboration using internal funding for outward and inward academic
                mobility;
            o Staff research workshops on international links facilitate sharing of practice
                across Centres;
            o Created a Global Champion role to support cross-College networking;
            o Built evidence of partnerships into Centre annual reviews

       Doctoral students (also see Section 2)
           o Identified formal roles for PGRs in Centres and links to SWDTP;
           o Included introduction to Centres in the induction programme;
           o Increased funding for the annual Staff-Student Research Conference;
           o Linked students directly to Centres at the application stage

       Impact
           o Appointed a Professor of Practice (see section 4)
           o Appointed a Director of Impact based in the Department of Sociology, Philosophy
               and Anthropology with a cross-college role to work with Centre Leads and share
               practice across the Social Sciences;

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            o   Established the Exeter Partner Research Community to co-ordinate research
                engagement with schools (see section 4)
            o   Worked with the Innovation, Impact and Business (IIB) Directorate to raise
                awareness of funding and support (see section 3);
            o   Held staff research workshops to share good practice.

 The Centre for Research in Writing (CRW) is the only research group nationally to focus
 exclusively on writing, across all age ranges and across L1 and L2, and has achieved international
 recognition for research in the study of writing and the teaching of writing (see Impact Case Study).
 CRW received the ESRC Outstanding Impact in Society award in 2014 and works with
 stakeholders, including Pearson and Babcock Learning Development Partnership, in the design
 of commercial and non-commercial innovative pedagogical resources. Links with the Language
 and Education Network (LEN) extend the scope of research to include perspectives from Applied
 Linguistics, TESOL and linguistic theories on the text as a language artefact (Durrant, Li, Meier,
 Zhang). The relationship between traditional and digital literacy and the development of students'
 writing ability in relation to digital texts and technologies is a developing area of research (Watson).
 Key international collaborations include: research with the Australian Systemic Functional
 Linguistics group in the Universities of Sydney, Wollongong and Melbourne funded by the
 Australian Research Council; with the National Standards for the Assessment of Writing (NORMS)
 group at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology and representation on the
 International Advisory Board (Myhill); the Language Teaching and Learning (GREAL) group in the
 Autonomous University Barcelona, consolidated by a Spanish Research Council funded two-year
 secondment of a lecturer to work with researchers in CRW.

 Researchers in the Centre for Special Needs and Disability (SEND) work with colleagues in the
 College of Medicine and Health (CMH) and Psychology to develop holistic understanding of the
 relationship between children’s mental health, behaviour and academic attainment (Norwich,
 Moore and Koutsouris). GSE hosts the doctoral training programme for Educational Psychologists
 in the South West and the regional consortium for the training of Special Educational Needs Co-
 ordinators (SENCos) in schools supporting collaboration with practitioners. SEND is leading
 innovation internationally in the adaptation of Lesson Study for use with SEN pupils; this work is
 the focus of one of our Impact Case Studies. Recent appointments (Knowler and Rivzi) and links
 with the Race, Ethnicity and Education Network (REEN) extend the scope of research to address
 diversity and inclusion in schools. Key international collaborations include: with University of South
 Florida on comparative research on SEND provision, reciprocal academic exchange visits that led
 to joint publications and a study visit for SENCos from Florida; an Erasmus+ project on supportive
 practices for inclusive schooling with University College Syddanmark.

 The recruitment of a specialist in Environmental Education to lead the Centre for Research in
 STEM Education (CRISTEME) refocused activity to address global challenges through creative
 approaches to transdisciplinary educational practice. Fujita and Kleine-Staarman are members of
 the national Institute of Coding working with Computer Science, the Q-step Centre (a UK-wide
 £19.5 million programme to promote a step-change in quantitative training in the British social
 sciences education) and the Institute for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence (IDSAI) at Exeter
 and with industry to enhance students’ digital skills. Dillon is a key partner in the Transdisciplinary
 Network for Climate Change Education with Bristol, Bath and Cardiff Universities. Links with the
 Creativity and Emergent Educational Futures Network (CEEN) opens access to creative
 practitioners; for example, with Trinity Laban on a Wellcome Trust funded project on Dance and
 Health. CRISTEME’s pedagogical framework to promote creativity and engage young people in
 science (Chappell and Hetherington), co-created with partners in the College of Engineering,
 Mathematics and Physical Sciences (CEMPS), the University of Birmingham, University of
 Bayreuth and the Science and Technology Facilities Council is used by teachers in 11 countries.
 Key international collaborations include: Shinsu University, with research on dialogic inquiry-based
 instruction in mathematics, funded by Daiwa (Fujita) and Qatar University, with research funded
 by the Qatar National Research Fund (Mansour) on science education; Western Norway
 University of Applied Sciences, where Chappell is an adjunct professor, on transdisciplinary
 educational practice.

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Centre for Research in Professional Learning (CRPL) was established in 2015 with the
 appointment of a Professor of Professional Learning and secondment of a Professor of Medical
 Education from CMH to provide scope for cross-professional research. The appointment of a
 Professor of Leadership and Policy further strengthened expertise in researching both the
 changing context for professional learning and key points of transition in the initial and continuing
 education of professionals. The BERA Research Commission ‘Cost, Value and Quality in
 Professional Learning’ promoted collaboration with the Association for the Study of Medical
 Education (ASME) and between health and education economists in the UK and Australia. CRPL
 is one of only 20 centres, and the only centre with a cross-professional focus, invited to the
 international Rogano Meeting of researchers, PGR and post-doctoral students in medical
 education. CRPL collaborates with researchers at Monash University and the University of Sydney
 on medical education, with the Change Laboratory in the Centre for Research on Activity,
 Development and Learning (CRADLE), University of Helsinki, University of Education, Lahore and
 Department of Human Development and Family Studies, MSU Baroda. CRPL’s research informs
 teacher education policy internationally through consultancy for the National Council for Teacher
 Education, India (Baumfield); Higher Education Commission, Pakistan (Baumfield); MOFET
 Institute, Israel (Walshe). Recent investment in the appointment of an ECR in data science and AI
 equips CRPL to address the impact of digitalisation on the professions, working with the Q-step
 Centre and IDSAI to develop research on the implication for the Future of Work.


 Key to the work of the Centre for Social Mobility (CSM), our most recently established research
 group, is the formation of a community of evidence-based practice through dialogue between
 students, researchers, practitioners and policy makers. Co-leadership of CSM by a leading
 researcher in social mobility and the Head of the University’s Professional Services team with
 responsibility for Widening Participation enables close integration of research and practice. The
 appointment of the first Professor of Practice focusing on social mobility in the UK to work closely
 with schools, universities, employers and policymakers supports dissemination and the impact of
 CSM in the region and nationally. The work of CSM was highly commended in two categories -
 Innovation of the Year, and University of the Year - in the UK Social Mobility Awards 2020.
 Researchers in CSM work with the Office for Students, Office for Fair Access, the Fair Education
 Alliance and HEFCE to provide an evidence base for the evaluation of interventions and promotion
 of best practice across the sector. CSM collaborates with the Centre of Excellence for Equity in
 Higher Education, University of Newcastle, Australia and hosted a doctoral scholarship student
 from the University of Michigan. Investment in the appointment of ECRs with expertise in
 quantitative sociological methods and comparative studies (Banerjee and Barg) has extended the
 international reach of the research, whilst supporting collaboration with the Q-Step Centre and
 contributing to the achievement of GSE’s future research goals (see 1.5).

 1.4 Research Integrity and Open Access
 Ensuring the visibility and integrity of our research underpins all our structures, in line with the
 University’s commitment to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity (ILES 2.9). We maintain
 100% ORCID registration and encourage colleagues to disseminate their research to maximize
 inclusion and impact. Open Research Exeter (ORE) is one of the top ten repositories in the UK
 (ILES 2.8). The ‘Request a Copy’ service facilitates access to outputs during the period of embargo
 and a high proportion of requests are for the work of researchers in GSE (the top two most frequent
 requests in 2019). GSE adds value to institutional level support through its policy and practice
 networks, ExPLAIN and the ExeterPartner Research Community. We draw on the editorial
 expertise of senior staff and roles in major educational research associations (Baumfield, Dillon,
 Myhill) to disseminate best practice regarding Open Access (see section 4). We developed one of
 the University’s most popular MOOCs: ‘21st Century Education Challenges’, over 11,375 people
 have enrolled on this course. Research permeates teaching and we support our PGT and PGR
 students as ambassadors to the policy and practice communities to which they belong (see
 Section 2). For example, each Centre nominates a PGR representative to communicate research
 activities to the wider community through social media.


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have a research ethics approval process designed to meet the needs of educational
 researchers, with an Ethics Officer based in GSE who reports to the University Ethics Committee.
 Staff and students in GSE are active in current debates in research ethics, Mountford-Zimdars
 was a member of the working group to develop the fourth edition of the British Educational
 Research Association’s Ethical Guidelines. Our PGRs are organising a national conference in
 June 2021, supported by the SWDTP, to raise understanding of the importance of practical ethics
 and research by sharing knowledge and best practice.

 1.5 Future Goals

   I.  Build on our investment in key appointments to consolidate research in writing and STEM
       and strengthen our contribution to emerging research priorities in inclusive approaches to
       health and wellbeing in schools, and the impact of digitalisation and AI on professional
       education
     Demonstrated by:
     A large scale collaborative project involving a key international partner in each of our
       Research Centres to enrich our research and enhance our ability to deliver
       transformational benefits to society
     Involvement in an interdisciplinary bid in a UKRI priority area with a staff member as PI

  II. Continue to embed impact by putting public engagement at the heart of our research
      strategy through co-production with local users and beneficiaries
    Demonstrated by:
     Evidence of increased local user participation in the preparation, conduct and
      dissemination of research projects in each of our Research Centres
     Expansion of activities of the ExeterPartner Research Community

  III.  Sustain the vitality of our research culture
      Demonstrated by:
       Diverse income streams: building on partnerships with industry (see 4.2) to access
        sector-focused funding; strengthening links with research institutes to support external
        consultancy; securing philanthropic funding to support post-doctoral researchers
       Career progression of Centre members shown in the retention and promotion of staff
        during the REF period
       Evidence of active participation of PGRs in developing Research Centre priorities and
        engagement in our Research Review Group

 2. People

 2.1 Staff Support and Career Development
 We have maintained a steady upward trajectory in the fulfilment of the aims of our staffing strategy
 over the previous two REF cycles. In 2008 we highlighted the need to strengthen research-led
 teaching, continued commitment to this can be seen in the representation of senior researchers
 across our teaching programmes. In 2014, attention was focused on re-balancing the
 demographic profile of GSE to build for sustainability and establish new posts within our Research
 Centres. We have exceeded the target we set to increase the staffing base to 30 active
 researchers within the REF cycle and currently have 42 staff in the Education and Research (E&R)
 job family (38.4 FTE). Recruitment is driven by our research strategy to ensure that areas of
 strength remain vital whilst providing the expertise to address new educational challenges and
 opportunities in interdisciplinary teams (see 1.3). In this REF period we have appointed senior
 researchers to provide leadership in priority areas; professional learning (Baumfield),
 environmental education (Dillon), policy studies (Hall) and applied linguistics (Zhang) and
 expanded capacity in secondary data analysis and data linkage (Banerjee, Barg, Moore and Xiao).
 Our current staffing profile demonstrates our commitment to promoting gender equality and
 building research capacity at all career stages (see Table 2).


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Table 2
  Grade                   Ratio E&R staff     Ratio Male to Female
  Professor               10:42               5:5
  Associate Professor     7:42                2:5
  Senior Lecturer         17:42               6:11
  Lecturer                8:42                3:5

 As a School of Education, we take pride in our achievements in developing a cohesive group of
 researchers with a balance of staff following the traditional route in HEIs of doctorate, post-
 doctorate post and appointment to Lecturer with those who join us from a professional career. We
 benefit from the opportunities of close links with the professions these colleagues bring and are
 sensitive to their needs as ECRs with years of experience at a senior level in their previous posts.
 In GSE we combine access to university-wide support with bespoke provision in a combination of
 formal and informal opportunities. We have developed a tailored induction programme to welcome
 all newly appointed staff into our diverse community. Staff have individual appointments with the
 DoR, the Director of Education (DoE) and our Directors of Doctoral Studies (DDS), to discuss
 research plans and their role in our teaching programmes. When the university introduced
 Academic Leads (ILES 3.6) as part of provision for staff development, GSE combined this with the
 role of Research Mentor. Consequently, Academic Leads in GSE not only fulfil the responsibilities
 of supporting colleagues through the annual Professional Development Review (PDR) process
 but are also the reviewers of draft and final publications and provide a sounding board for the
 development of individual research plans. In this way criteria for promotion, recognition and reward
 are inflected in a fully integrated relationship. The HoD chairs a meeting of Academic Leads at the
 conclusion of each annual PDR cycle in which common issues emerging from the individual
 meetings are identified. The meetings address any concerns and share best practice in supporting
 the development of staff, and these elements are then incorporated into key performance
 indicators set by the GSE Executive Group. Study Leave is an opportunity for staff to consolidate
 or reset research plans and develop collaborations; in GSE we have been pro-active in developing
 an annual cycle of advice and support from the DoR and HoD for potential applicants. Colleagues
 returning from Study Leave submit a report of their achievements against the goals they had set
 and share their experience on how to make best use of the time with staff.

          Time is allocated in the workload model for new staff to participate in the Professional
 Development Programme (PDP) supporting new lecturers throughout the probation period,
 normally 3 years but can be completed in 1 year, leading to promotion to Senior Lecturer in 5
 years if targets are met. All newly appointed staff are also enrolled in the Academic Professional
 (AP) programme and gain Fellowship of HEA (ILES 3.5). Participation in the programme facilitates
 the building of networks with colleagues joining the university from a range of different disciplines,
 and is strengthened by the engagement of researchers from the Centre for Social Mobility and
 Centre for Research in Professional Learning who teach on the programme. Academics from all
 disciplines who receive ‘Dean’s Commendations’ on AP are encouraged to present their work at
 the GSE annual Staff-Student Research Conference. The three principles of the Researcher
 Development Concordat underpin the ‘Exeter Academic’ process which guides development at all
 stages of an academic’s career (ILES 3.3). In GSE, we provide additional tailored support for
 professional and career development through termly Research Workshops and Staff Development
 Days, and Centre and Network led activities. We have a designated member of staff with
 responsibility for promoting Wellbeing with a budget to fund activities. GSE also values
 opportunities to promote an inclusive environment and culture through informal activities
 promoting wellbeing. For example, we meet every Wednesday for coffee and cake and have a
 termly social event to which staff, students, partners and children are invited. The GSE Community
 Cultural programme organises events for staff and students and is supported by the Annual Alumni
 Fund. During the pandemic we have continued to meet ‘virtually’ through invites to Teams and
 Zoom meetings.

        GSE balances the attraction of outside talent with investment in the next generation of
 educational researchers by supporting our own doctoral students into their first academic posts.
 Research Centres play a vital role in such capacity building through their active engagement of

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGR students and transition to becoming ECRs. For example, PGRs participate in the discussion
 of Centre research plans, are included in bid writing teams and co-present in symposia at
 academic conferences. Current academic staff in CRW (Jones, Newman, and Watson), SEND
 (Koutsouris), CRISTEME (Hetherington, Mansour, and Ralph) and CRPL (Doney and Stentiford)
 were previously doctoral students in GSE. The success of our efforts to support the development
 of staff in GSE is evident in our record in retaining and promoting talented researchers. During this
 REF cycle, there have been 18 promotions, 5:13 male to female staff, two of these were from
 Associate Professor to Professor. As an inclusive community, we also support colleagues in the
 Education and Scholarship (E&S) job family looking to develop their research careers by
 undertaking doctoral study. Currently three members of staff are following the MPhil/PhD route
 whilst another is completing a PhD by publication.

 2.2 Research Student Support and Development
           As a graduate school, supervision is a central focus of our academic work and we benefit
 from the wide range of interests and professional experience of our students who are a source of
 vitality, contributing to the research environment through the creative renewal of ideas. We are
 fortunate in being able to work with sponsored international students holding senior positions in
 the education systems of their home countries. The professional backgrounds of our PGRs
 strengthens links with policy and practice locally, nationally and internationally and partnership
 with third sector organisations, such as Babcock LDP. GSE offers three programmes, PhD and
 two professional doctorates, the EdD and DEdPsych. It is testimony to the reputation of our
 research in GSE and the quality of supervision that in an increasingly competitive climate we
 continue to attract PGR students in significant numbers (167 FTEs in 2017/18) and secure funded
 studentships from research councils. In the census period we have maintained a record of
 successful completions. The PGR FTEs per staff FTE also is strong at 5.09 in GSE. The full break
 down of awards for the census period is below:

  PGR Programmes                              2013/   2014/   2015/   2016/   2017/   2018/   2019/    Grand
                                               14      15      16      17      18      19      20      Total
  DEDPSYC Educational Child and Community      9.0     9.0     5.0     9.0     9.0    10.0    11.0      62.0
  Psychology
  EDD Education (PT)                           7.0     5.0     4.0     5.0     1.0     8.0     1.0      31.0
  EDD Educational Psychology (PT)                      1.0             1.0                                  2.0

  EDD Mathematics Education (PT)               2.0     1.0                                                  3.0
  EDD Special Educational Needs                        1.0                                                  1.0

  EDD Special Educational Needs (PT)                           3.0                             1.0          4.0

  EDD Special Needs and Inclusive Education                                                    6.0          6.0

  EDD TESOL (Dubai)                                    1.0             1.0     1.0                          3.0

  EDD TESOL (Exeter)                                   3.0     4.0     5.0     2.0     7.0     1.0      22.0
  EDD TESOL Exeter (PT)                        5.0     3.0     6.0     6.0     6.0     5.0     5.0      36.0

  PHD Education                                5.0     4.0     2.0     4.0     3.0     4.0     2.0      24.0

  PHD Education (DL)                           1.0                             2.0     1.0                  4.0

  PHD Education (PT DL)                                                        3.0                          3.0

  PHD Education (PT)                           2.0     4.0     3.0     4.0     2.0     1.0              16.0

  PHD Education (UCP Marjon)                           1.0             1.0                                  2.0

  PHD Education 4 Year                         9.0     16.0    13.0    7.0     11.0    8.0     17.0     81.0
  PHD Education 4 Year (DL)                                           1.0                             1.0

  PHD Education 4 Year (PT DL)                                        1.0                     1.0     2.0

  PHD Education 4 Year (PT)                   2.0     1.0     1.0     3.0             1.0             8.0
  PHD Medical Studies                                                         1.0                     1.0

  PHD Medical Studies (PT)                                                                    0.2     0.2
  Grand Total                                 42.0    50.0    41.0    48.0    41.0    45.0    45.2    312.2



                                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Given the volume of PGR students, we have two Directors of Doctoral Studies (DDS). The DDS
 roles were previously determined according to responsibility for the PhD or the professional
 pathway, however, this has been revised to promote greater integration across the PGR
 community. One DDS is responsible for strategic planning and development to enhance the
 student experience and one focuses on monitoring current students’ progression. The role of DDS
 is fully integrated into the leadership team and research strategy development in GSE. Termly
 meetings of the SSIS Graduate Research Strategy Committee enables DDS to meet with the
 Director of Postgraduate Research, the ADR and DDS from other disciplines, support staff and
 student representatives. A PGR liaison forum meets once per term in GSE for supervisors to
 discuss broad PGR issues.

 All PGR students are supported by a pastoral tutor, a dedicated postgraduate research office and
 from 2019 an education advisor for health and welfare (ESAW). We have been successful in
 securing an increase in dedicated support from the PGR team for GSE and their location on the
 St Luke’s Campus provides easy access for students. The PGR Support team facing GSE has
 seen an increase in FTE and number of staff in the past 12 months from 2.38 FTE to 2.78 FTE. In
 addition to this the School has access to the dedicated SSIS PGR manager. Annual Monitoring
 Review (AMR) and upgrade panels provide opportunities for students to comment on their
 supervisory experience and for student progress to be monitored against submission targets. They
 form a key part of our quality assurance for the doctoral experience and feedback from our
 students, from external examiners and sponsors informs changes made to improve provision.
 PGR students have a leading expert in their research field as primary supervisor, accounting for
 80% of the supervision hours and a second supervisor with complementary skills and experience.
 We responded to the needs of professionals on the EdD route by changing to a part-time only
 programme, with three core taught elements attended by all students to increase opportunities for
 learning across professional contexts.


          The aspiration expressed in REF2014 to develop mechanisms by which students are
 linked to our Research Centres has been realised through changes to our admissions process to
 establish contact with Centre Leads at the point of application. We have restructured our PhD
 programme from the MSc/PhD route to the MPhil/PhD route to ensure greater focus on students
 working with their lead supervisor from the beginning of their studies. Students on the EdD
 programme are also allocated a lead supervisor on admission. The induction programme for
 students includes presentations by each Research Centre and Network of their research themes
 and social events. Once aligned with the relevant Centre PGRs are fully integrated in all Centre
 activities; they attend events, take key roles such as developing the website or leading meetings.
 Each Centre and Network nominates two PGR representatives to attend the RRG and inform
 planning of research focused activities in GSE. Specialist input from the Centres is augmented by
 whole school opportunities to develop as future researchers such as the Annual Student-Staff
 Conference organised by a committee led by our PGRs and the Educational Theory Reading
 Group. Students are encouraged to create peer support research focused groups. In 2019/20
 students set up a special interest group focused on ethics with support from the DDS. PGRs in
 GSE have a research allowance, access to travel bursaries and funding to run sessions to develop
 research skills, such as ‘Shut Up and Write’ which were very popular with students (and staff).
 Whilst overall levels of satisfaction amongst our PGR community remain in line with those of the
 sector and discipline, we are mindful of what we can learn from the Postgraduate Research
 Experience Survey (PRES). We continue to work on developing an inclusive research culture that
 supports our students’ wellbeing, making full use of internal channels for feedback and periodic
 reviews. In 2018, a review of PGR support and provision in GSE led by a senior academic focused
 on the use of physical space; student engagement and representation; administration and
 communications. Subsequent improvements include; strengthening the student liaison committee,
 creation of a PGR student hub with room for students to meet and socialise, monitoring
 connections between students and research centres, the development of the PGR induction
 programme and the re-organisation of PGR student desk space.


                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Cross-fertilisation of ideas within our PGR community is extended by the work of the Exeter
 Doctoral College (EDC) and the Doctoral Research Forum. The EDC co-ordinates support,
 training and administration for PGRs across disciplines in the university and organises an annual
 Postgraduate Research Showcase. EDC supports future employability by offering the Learning
 and Teaching in Higher Education (LTHE) qualification and GSE supports PGRs in planning,
 observing and evaluating teaching. The university is part of the ESRC South West Doctoral
 Training Centre (SWDTC), providing opportunities for collaboration and access to funding. For
 example, PGRs in GSE organised a workshop on ‘Creative Interviewing’ for students in the South
 West based on their own research with input from external experts. PGRs also gain experience in
 applying for external funding e.g. the 2019 British Association of Applied Linguistics (BAAL)
 international seminar. The confidence such support gives to members of our PGR community is
 evident in individual achievements such as becoming a BERA ECR Network representative.


 2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity (EDI)
          Fostering an inclusive and diverse community of researchers at all stages in their careers
 in common endeavours is a principle fundamental to our work in GSE. As seen in Section 1,
 research in GSE addresses EDI, widening participation (WP) and disability with staff contributing
 to UoE wide initiatives. CSM works directly with Professional Services on WP facilitated by co-
 leadership (see 1.3) and the work of SEND feeds into the SSIS EDI Committee. Women are well-
 represented in research-related leadership roles in GSE, the DoR, Director of Impact (DoI) and
 one of the two DDS; three of our five Research Centres are led by women. Recent appointments
 and promotions have contributed to gender equality at Professor and Associate Professor grades
 and to the diversity of our staffing profile. Staff have the same rights to research support and
 access to internal pump-priming funds whether working part-time or full-time, and provision is
 made for flexible/remote working. Where research careers are interrupted, Academic Leads are
 actively involved in planning for the resumption of research activity. Research-related events for
 the year take account of different work patterns and commitments of staff. The University is a
 Silver Athena Swann Award holder and we adhere to guidelines for timetabling meetings in the
 working day to take account of caring responsibilities and identify clearly which are core and
 optional for attendees. We have an open and transparent process for reviewing grant applications
 in our Research Centres and the Research Review Group, which involves researchers at all
 stages in their careers. Publications are reviewed by Academic Leads as a regular feature of
 research development and colleagues receive formative and summative feedback. The DoR, HoD
 and Industrial Strategy Champion, who have completed unconscious bias training, select outputs
 for REF to represent the profile of research in GSE and are informed by the judgements of external
 Critical Friends, which are also shared with staff. The Director of Impact works with Centre Leads
 with support from IIB to promote impact and dissemination of research. Potential Impact Case
 Studies for inclusion in the REF submission were identified and support provided to researchers
 through workshops and individual consultations. The final selection of Impact Case Studies was
 an iterative, open review process by a panel convened by SISS.

          Our Equality and Diversity Officer, a researcher in inclusive practice (Knowler), plays a
 strategic role raising awareness of the importance of positive perceptions and experiences for
 everyone who takes part in research activities within GSE. Key aspects are developing knowledge
 and competence in relation to the University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity Strategic Goals
 2019-2025, embedding culture change and awareness of people’s experiences at individual,
 system and organisational level. Practical activities relate to Equality Analysis within GSE feeding
 into the University Inclusivity Committee and supporting reporting incidents of harassment or
 discrimination through our confidential reporting and advice initiative ‘Exeter Speaks Out’ All staff
 complete mandatory training on EDI as part of induction and renewed every two years, Evidence
 of ability to work effectively within diverse research cultures is built into probation, annual PDRs
 and promotion criteria. The EDI Officer line manages our Race Equality Resource Officer (RERO)
 who has a primary responsibility for supporting Black Asian and Minority Ethic (BAME) students
 on our Initial Teacher Education (ITE) programmes. The Race and Ethnic Education Network
 organises seminars for staff and students, for example the recent series on decolonising


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 education. We actively encourage staff and students to seek advice, ask questions and report
 incidents.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 During this REF cycle, we have built capacity to reposition our research to face a wider range of
 funders and ensure resilience in a highly competitive and rapidly changing funding environment.
 We have maintained the level of our research income per FTE despite the challenges by achieving
 better distribution across potential funding sources. Currently we have an average (median) of
 £18,197 per FTE research income, distributed across the following HESA categories:

  Research Councils               30%
  UK government                   24%
  UK charities                    22%
  EU                              18%
  Other                           4%

 Recognition of our work in policy and evidence informed practice is evident in increases in funding
 from government and sustained EU funding for comparative research on provision for teachers’
 professional education over consecutive projects (RETAIN, ProTEACH and ProMENTOR)
 spanning the REF period. The devolved structure of Research Centres enables the integration of
 small bids into clusters of expertise facilitating access to participation in larger consortia. Securing
 income for interdisciplinary research with partners in Computing Science from new funding
 sources such as the Institute of Coding project are a positive indicator for the success of this
 strategy.

   We have a steady income stream from research consultancy, which broadens and deepens our
 collaboration with stakeholders and third sector organisations. We contributed 43% of the College
 of Social Sciences and International Studies target for income from research consultancy during
 this REF period. We work with major educational publishers to translate findings into practice e.g.
 Pearson and Oxford University Press; with schools to develop evidence informed practice; advise
 specialist centres and universities overseas. Consultancy reflects our commitment to
 disseminating research to inform policy and practice and provides benefits for future research in
 terms of access, data and potential collaborators on funding bids.

 3.2 Infrastructure
    Our location within the College of Social Sciences and International Studies provides targeted
 support and the benefits of close interaction with colleagues from across the social sciences.
 Access to a discretionary fund overseen by the ADR supports the development of research
 collaborations such as our work with the College of Medicine and Health on a scoping review of
 cross-professional research of professional learning (Baumfield and Mattick), and with the College
 of Engineering, Mathematics and Physical Sciences on AI and machine learning (Xiao). The
 university is one of fifteen universities to host a Q-step Centre. Being part of this UK-wide £19.5
 million programme to promote a step-change in quantitative training in the British social sciences
 education provides opportunities for our staff to collaborate on both teaching and research
 initiatives with colleagues in SSIS and make links with industry-leading employers.

 The contribution of CRPL, CSM and SEND researchers to the Education and Life Course Studies
 research programme includes a Nuffield funded project and an ESRC Secondary Data Analysis
 Initiative. Q-step also facilitates joint supervision of PGRs. UoE’s investment in the Alan Turing
 Institute supports a fellowship and collaboration between an ECR (Xiao) and a Cambridge
 University researcher.

   The UoE EU Facilitation Fund to support interactions with European research partners enables
 researchers in GSE to engage with calls for proposals. We have made good use of this support
 to secure, and more importantly, sustain strong research partnerships such as the linked projects

                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 led by Walshe (RETAIN, ProTEACH and ProMENTOR) spanning this and the previous REF
 period. The Global Challenges Research Facilitation Fund supports research activity, which is
 explicitly interdisciplinary, challenge-focused and aligns with GCRF but also with other funders
 promoting challenge-led research more broadly. Applications can be made for projects between
 £3k and £60k to support travel and larger scale pump priming projects. Global Partnership funds
 are also available for inbound and outbound academic exchange visits between partner
 universities. Strategic use of such funds in GSE has supported the development of key
 international partnerships in our Centres (see 1.3). Fellowships to encourage research
 collaboration, contingent on match-funding from the partner university are also available; Li was
 awarded an Exeter-Tsinghua Fellowship in 2014 for research on the role of metacognition in the
 success of reading and writing tasks across cultures. The DoR is a Global Champion working
 closely with the SSIS Business Partner to share our expertise in international education and
 TESOL and enable staff in GSE to take full advantage of emerging research opportunities. In the
 South West, infrastructure for collaboration between leading research-intensive universities (Bath,
 Bristol, Cardiff, Exeter) is provided by the GW4 research alliance; both staff and PGRs in GSE
 have benefitted from GW4 funding (see Section 1).

   In 2016 the University established the Innovation, Impact and Business Directorate (IIB) to
 support income and impact generation. IIB offers training for consultancy via the IIB Essentials
 series (open to all staff), and manages the University’s consultancy activity providing practical
 support and advice to academics (ILES 4.8). During this period, we have worked closely with a
 senior impact and partnership development manager with specialist knowledge of the education
 sector to:
      Broker partnerships across disciplines (e.g. Institute for Coding),
      Develop stakeholder relationships and tenders for industry and government contracts (e.g.
         to the Education Bureau of the Hong Kong Government to host their Science Teacher
         Professional Development Study programme)

 In addition, IIB’s Marchmont Employment and Skills Observatory has supported our strategic
 engagement with regional skills initiatives e.g. the South West Institute of Technology (SWIoT) It
 also provides specialist bidding and project management support for ERASMUS projects. Current
 projects include ENROPE, the European Network for Junior Researchers in the field of
 Plurilingualism in Education (Meier); ProMENTOR, comparative research on provision for
 mentoring in ITE (Walshe); SciCulture, co-creating solutions to shared problems through business,
 science and the arts (Chappell).

 Professional Services support for research is provided by a Research Development Manager
 (RDM), a discipline specific lead located within the Humanities and Social Science cluster. In
 2019 UoE made a £2.5M investment in a new Research Management System to enhance
 horizon-scanning, grant planning, post-award support and monitoring, ethics administration, and
 output, outcome and impact management. The RDM for Education, who is the first point of contact
 when developing a research bid, holds regular open ‘drop-in’ sessions for staff, provides regular
 updates on applications and awards for the DoR and attends DoRAG meetings. Dedicated
 expertise is combined with access to two Research Development Advisors and a Research
 Finance Assistant with a range of complementary experience gained in other disciplinary clusters,
 such as Health, and with external organisations. Working as a team, they pool expertise in aspects
 such as Fellowship applications or funding available for ECRs. The overall coherence of the
 support provided is ensured by the Cluster Lead who liaises with the other clusters across UoE.
 The GSE facing Cluster Lead and RDM contribute to research workshops, in person and online,
 on developing interdisciplinary bids and diversifying funding streams. Funder Advisory Networks
 (FANs) provide an informal setting for sharing early funder intelligence, a pool of funder-expert
 peer reviewers and the leadership to bring together and support research communities. FANs
 provide funder-specific support activities e.g. hustings to give potential applicants the opportunity
 to present their project ideas and receive feedback. Myhill currently chairs the ESRC FAN.

   The Partnership Office, based at St Luke’s Campus, deals with all aspects of work related to
 Initial Teacher Education and the partnerships between the GSE and schools. Professional

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Services staff include two Partnership Co-ordinators who, in addition to co-ordinating links with
 over 300 schools within the ITE partnership, play a key role in the ExeterPartner Research
 Community (see Section 4). They facilitate collaboration between researchers in GSE by
 supporting engagement with schools, this was instrumental in securing BERA Covid rapid
 response funding by the Centre for Research in Writing and the Centre for Social Mobility on the
 impact of school closures. Support is also given to researchers in the wider University e.g. to
 researchers in the Exeter Business School needing schools to participate in a Wellcome Trust
 funded project, ‘Talking about Gene Drive’.

 3.3 Facilities
 Co-location of the Colleges of Medicine and Health and Life and Environmental Sciences on the
 St Luke’s Campus has triggered investment to support teaching and research across the Colleges.
 Improvements in IT support and provision of adaptable classrooms enables research seminars to
 be accessed by staff, students on and off campus with the additional benefit of improving access
 by the wider community. St Luke’s Campus has its own Library, which has been refurbished to
 improve accessibility and the provision of on-site specialist staff support and extended 24/7
 opening benefits to staff and PGRs. The successful bid to join the ESRC funded SafePod Network
 (ILES 4.18) and the installation of a SafePod on the St Luke’s Campus is a major benefit to our
 researchers who now have local access to sensitive or confidential datasets. This facility supports
 the work of researchers recently appointed to GSE working with big data and on secondary data
 analysis, one of our development areas and key to the achievement of our future goals for
 research (see Section 1).

 Shared staff/student leisure and informal meeting places have been refurbished to increase
 capacity and respond to the needs of an increasingly diverse research community providing café
 and social areas in which alcohol is not served, for example. The former Principal’s Residence,
 Staff House, is now open to staff and students for weekly ‘coffee and cake’ meetings, PGR initiated
 research seminars, ‘Research Teas’ (see Section 4) and discussion groups, such as the Education
 Theory Reading Group.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research Collaborations

 The co-production of knowledge to effect real change and achieve positive educational outcomes
 is a principle fundamental to every aspect of our work in GSE. Our holistic approach to tackling
 educational issues by working across disciplinary and professional contexts is a core feature of
 our research and impact strategy. We actively engage in research collaborations to build capacity
 and share expertise:
      With education practitioners and networks - regionally, nationally and internationally
      With policy-makers and government bodies, industry, third sector and civil society

 Policy, industry and education problems often need to be framed in a non-disciplinary way. Our
 collaborations across disciplines within the university and beyond, have been a central facet of
 achieving impact and engagement in areas such as:
      Developing more effective engagements between researchers, schools and pupils
         (Myhill, Black with Economics, Engineering, Philosophy and Geography)
      Tackling methodological challenges of social and educational interventions (Xiao with
         Computer Science, Medical Statistics at Exeter and Mathematics at Cambridge)
      Addressing the impact of academisation on provision for pupils with special education
         needs (SEN) (Black, Norwich with Sociology)
      Developing teacher and support staff training that helps to improve the mental health of
         children (Norwich and, Moore with Psychiatry)
      Creating virtual science lessons (Dillon with Physics, included in UoA 9’s Impact Case
         Study portfolio)
      Understanding the causes of mental ill-health in doctors (Mattick with Medical Sociology)


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      With Applied Linguistics and Philosophy to inform national planning in education (Li with
         Beijing Normal University and the Ministry of Education, China)
 The activities of our Research Centres illustrate consensus on the importance of research
 collaboration in the production, critique and mobilisation of knowledge for the benefit of society
 (see 1.3). Our Centre leaders have extensive experience engaging diverse research users and
 work collaboratively with junior colleagues to deliver stakeholder projects, initiatives and
 engagements. This collaborative approach has ensured a sustainable impact and engagement
 culture and invested strength and depth in our stakeholder relationships. The Centre for Research
 in Writing (CRW), for example, ensured that the relationship with Pearson is held across the group,
 with research projects with the company delivered by three separate members of the team
 (Durrant, Jones, Myhill). The Centre for Special Educational Needs and Disability (SEND)
 collaborated with CRW to work with FE colleges and schools on an EPSRC ‘Empowering
 Partnership’ project (Black) and the Centre for Social Mobility on Transforming Transitions with
 the Office for Students and sixth form colleges (Banerjee).


 4.2 Contributions to Economy and Society

 GSE collaborates with employers and education providers within the UK and internationally to
 improve quality and support the skills agenda. The School has a strong relationship with Babcock
 LDP (the largest integrated service provider for education improvement and specialist intervention
 services in the UK). Babcock LDP has worked with CRW and SEND on grants awarded by the
 Education Endowment Foundation (EEF) and the NIHR, as well as CPD programmes and
 publications such as 'No-Nonsense Grammar'. All GSE researchers have benefited from Open
 Innovation Link funding (coordinated by the IIB service) to support interactions and presentations
 of research by Centres to publishers of educational resources such as Oxford University Press.
 GSE has proactively sought to engage with the objective of the Government's Industrial Strategy
 to address the data skills shortage. Our Industrial Champion (Dillon) is leading the South West
 Institute of Technology Observatory (SWIoTO), working with employers including the Met Office,
 Babcock, TDK and Oxygen House to inform curriculum development.

 The appointment of a Professor of Practice in Social Mobility (Elliot-Major), has extended the reach
 of our research. Elliott-Major’s experience of working with policymakers, the third sector and the
 media has enabled our research to inform public debate on key social issues, most recently on
 the impact of Covid on increasing educational disadvantage. The Panorama episode ‘Has Covid
 Stolen My Future?’ focused on his work on improving the prospects of disadvantaged young
 people and features research by members of the Centre for Social Mobility

 The ExeterPartner Research Community supports outstanding educational practice by bringing
 together teachers, researchers in education, and experts and practitioners from other fields to
 develop innovative and rigorous approaches to teaching and learning. It offers a range of open
 access resources developed by researchers in GSE and expert advice for schools to draw on in
 developing research-informed teaching. Teachers joining the community can also participate in
 networks and research seminars and attend modules accredited at Masters' level (21 teachers
 are currently taking modules), as well as access support tailored to their specific needs. The
 ExeterPartner Research Community supported the Chartered College of Teaching regional hub’s
 launch of the South West Excellence in Education for Teachers (SWEET), whose inaugural event
 featured Dame Alice Peacock and was attended by 40 teachers.

 Thinking Schools@Exeter (TS@Exeter) represents a long-standing engagement with research on
 dialogic inquiry and creativity in GSE. TS@Exeter offers schools in the UK and internationally a
 route to accreditation through the Exeter Thinking School Award or the Exeter Advanced Thinking
 School Award. 49 awards in the REF period, 13 of which are international. TS@Exeter has links
 with commercial organisations such as Thinking Matters, who facilitate and manage training for a
 whole-school approach to develop Thinking Skills. Our research benefits the economy and society
 by exploring with schools how teaching and learning can adapt to meet the needs of future
 learners, with a particular focus on the impact of new technologies.

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Ted Wragg Trust (TWT) was established to forge a strong partnership between the city's two
 largest educational institutions (The University of Exeter and Exeter College) and create an
 outstanding educational experience for all of Exeter's children no matter what their background or
 aptitudes. Hall is Vice-Chair of the Board and Chair of the Education Committee, responsible for
 overseeing pedagogy, curriculum and assessment. Researchers in GSE contribute to the TWT
 Annual Conference and trustee away days e.g. Chappell with her research on teaching for
 creativity.

 The University is a founding partner of the Exeter Maths School (EMS), recognised by the
 Secretary of State for Education as an exemplar provider and cited in the Government's Industrial
 Strategy. Research collaborations with EMS include the Strategic Partnership for Innovative Data
 Analytics in Schools (SPIDAS) project with researchers in Spain and Turkey led by Fujita.
 Our relationships with third sector and advocacy organisations reflect the diversity and vitality of
 the research of our Centres. Chappell’s Wellcome Trust funded research on Dance and Health
 involves the charity Dance in Devon with outputs to be displayed at the Wellcome Collection in
 London due to the pandemic this will now be an online event in April, 2021. CRW co-researches
 with creative writing charity Arvon and was a founding partner of the biennial Arts Council funded
 Exetreme Imagination children’s literature festival which in 2018 had 4,000 participants.
 CRISTEME’s research informed the design of exhibitions at Living Coasts (a coastal zoo and
 aquarium in Devon attracting over half a million visitors). The value of staff expertise is evident in
 contributions to charitable organisations at the highest level:
      Standard Life Foundation Trustee (D.Hall)
      Vice-President of the United Kingdom Literacy Association (Myhill)
      President of the National Association for Environmental Education (Dillon)
      Council for Learning Outside the Classroom Trustee (Dillon)
      Royal Horticultural Society Education Committee (Dillon)
      Vice-President of the National Society for Education in Art and Design (E.Hall)
      Vice President of the History of Education Society (Doney)
      Research Advisory Panel for the Great Ormond Street Children's Charity (Elliott-Major)
      Deputy General Secretary International Seminar of RE and Values (Walshe)

 Researchers in GSE take an active role in policy debates. Mountford-Zimdars served for two years
 (2018-2019) as a TEF national panel Widening Participation (WP) Expert and currently serves on
 the Transforming Access and Student Outcomes (TASO) academic advisory group. She was an
 invited expert to the Milburn Commission on Social Mobility and the Universities UK Social Mobility
 Academic Reference Group (both 2016) and participated in an OfS working group for the WP TEF
 metrics. Elliott-Major was invited to present oral evidence to the House of Commons Education
 Select Committee in relation to cancelled exams and the calculated grades system and is now
 their independent special adviser on ‘left behind children’. Banerjee submitted a report to DfE on
 'Impact assessment of STEM enrichment and enhancement activities'. Moore’s systematic review
 with CMH and the NHS on school-based interventions on young people’s mental health is cited in
 Ofsted's advice for the inspection of schools. Freathy submitted evidence to the Commission on
 Religious Education. Baumfield was an expert adviser to the Higher Education Commission,
 Pakistan, on standards for the professional training of teachers and on evidence-informed practice
 to the National Council for Teacher Education, India.

 Contribution to the Discipline and Research Base

 Researchers in GSE play a key role in the continuing development of the discipline and
 educational research through their service as Journal Editors. Nine leading journals are currently
 edited by our staff:
      Research Papers in Education (Allan, Mountford-Zimdars and Myhill)
      Higher Education Review (Mountford-Zimdars)
      Medical Education (Mattick)
      Educational and Developmental Psychologist (Boyle)

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     History of Education Researcher (Doney)
     International Journal for Technology in Mathematics Education (Fujita)
     Research in Science and Technological Education (Hetherington)
     Studies in Science Education (Dillon)
     Thinking Skills and Creativity (Li and Chappell)

 Baumfield was Chair of the BERA Publications Committee during the REF period with
 responsibility for their four flagship journals and publication portfolio. Doney is currently a member
 of the Committee. We encourage newer or less-experienced staff to get involved through
 mentoring by editors and our staff research workshops.

 Our expertise is recognised by invitations to peer review from Research Councils including:
     ESRC – Banerjee, Baumfield, Hall, Mountford-Zimdars, Norwich
     Dutch Research Council (NWO) – Baumfield, Myhill
     Research Council of Norway - Myhill
     Qatar National Research Foundation – Baumfield, Mansour
     Irish Research Council - Baumfield

 We also play an important role in the continuing development of the discipline and the wellbeing
 of the education sector through membership of the Higher Education Academy:
      Principal Fellows – Lawson, Mattick, Mountford-Zimdars, Myhill, Robinson
      Senior Fellows – Hetherington, Larkin, Newman, Ralph
      Fellows – Allan, Banerjee, Chappell, Freathy, Hall, Koutsouris, Moore
      Associates – Black, Stentiford

 Awards and Recognition

 Chappell is one of the University of Oxford ‘Women Centenary’ project graduates recognised for
 their contribution to improving society since degrees were first awarded to women.

 Baumfield and Myhill are Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences.

 Baumfield is President Elect of the British Educational Research Association.

 Myhill is President of the European Association for Research in Learning and Instruction.

 Current external academic appointments held include:
     Visiting Professor at the American University of Cairo (Mansour)
     Visiting Professor Queen’s University Belfast (Mattick)
     Honorary Professor at the UCL Institute of Education (Elliott-Major)
     Honorary Professor at the University of Manchester (Hall)
     Adjunct Professor Western Norway University of Applied Sciences (Chappell)

 The contribution of our research to the economy and society is recognised through the award of
 an OBE to Lee Elliott-Major for services to social mobility and the MBE for services to teacher
 education and literacy to Debra Myhill.




                                                                                               Page 16
