Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of East London

 Unit of Assessment: 3 Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Overview and origins of the Unit

Allied Health at the University of East London has a rich history going back over 50 years with the
development of degree programmes in Physiotherapy, Pharmacology and Health based in the
School of Health Sport and Bioscience (HSB). Like all programmes at the then North East London
Polytechnic, they had a local and vocational focus from which a fledgling research core evolved,
particularly in the areas of Bioscience and Health. The recognition of a strong research environment
in HSB, goes back to the RAE2001. The creation of the Institute for Health and Human Development
(IHHD) led by Professor Adrian Renton in 2006 was a direct response to the wider demand and
growth of research in health and the need to better understand and serve the local and evolving
requirements of East London. With an emphasis on public health, health inequalities, wellbeing and
communities, the focus of the research in both the institute and school is closely aligned to the needs
and interests of the diverse population groups of East London and the global connections of the
more recent arrivals from Africa and Asia. The future research strategy for the school and institute
is an evidence-based approach to solving the health challenges facing these diverse groups,
acknowledging that well communities are a prerequisite for health.

1.2 Structure

The UoA has contributions from the institute and four departments within the school. Within the
departments of the school there are self-organising dynamic research clusters and research groups.
These divisions nevertheless do not inhibit synergistic relationships that connect researchers
through research-informed teaching, collaborative projects, PGR supervision and research
seminars.
The original remit of the Institute for Health and Human Development (IHHD) was to develop
interdisciplinary research in health and wellbeing. Although embedded in the local communities of
East London, the institute has a national and international outlook. The research staff of three
(2.4FTE) professors, a reader, six (4.1FTE) research fellows and four (3.2FTE) research assistants
are supported by two (1.8FTE) administrative staff. Their mission is to:
    • conduct high quality multi- and trans-disciplinary theoretical and empirical research into the
        social, economic and cultural production of health and wellbeing.
    • develop and evaluate innovative interventions to enhance health and wellbeing.
    • promote inter-sectoral actions for health at multiple levels of individual, community and
        society as a whole.
    • provide excellent CPD to support evidence-based policies and practices.

The School of Health Sport and Bioscience is primarily teaching focused but is fully aligned to
the University’s Vision 2028 strategic vision to be a research-informed, evidenced-based and
industry-ready University. Research within the school has strong allied health practitioner impact,
with patient and public engagement central to development and delivery. This praxis informs
teaching in the academic school, with undergraduate teaching in NHS-aligned academic disciplines
such as biomedical science, physiotherapy, podiatry, sport therapy and latterly, nursing. Other
important programmes include pharmaceutical science, pharmacology, public health and health

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
promotion. Inevitably, research clusters and groups emerge from these teaching areas.
Introduction of the BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing in 2018 and the Fd.Sc. Nursing Associate
Apprenticeship programme in 2019, provides a strategic opportunity to develop a program of
research in nursing at UEL. With NHS placements and internships leading to enhanced
employability of our students, this presents a pathway to a career in research for one of the most
ethnically diverse student populations in Europe: over 65% of our students identify as BAME.

1.3 Research themes in our submission include a broad range of topics, but there are clear themes
related to the health priorities of our local communities. For example, alleviating anti-microbial
resistance, fostering 'well communities’; reducing health inequalities; and promoting social
prescribing. Evidenced by our outputs, our research addresses: diagnostic technologies;
mechanisms of disease and immunity; drug discovery; therapeutic interventions, including robotics;
environmental health, substance misuse and community health. Specific disease areas include
addictive behaviours; zoonotic infection in Europe and Africa; mental health; musculoskeletal and
neurological disorders; and respiratory health. The responsiveness and flexibility of our
departments and research groupings is currently being demonstrated by how quickly they have
responded to the current COVID-19 pandemic. For example, researchers in the school were key
participants in setting up and running the Nightingale Hospital (including nursing, physiotherapy,
sports therapy) in the ExCel Centre, London. Our researchers continue to support Newham Public
Health with expert advice and analysis of their responses to the coronavirus pandemic and its wider
impact, including the disproportional impact of the pandemic on local BAME communities.
Professor Sally Cutler is serving as clinical lead for thousands of students, staff and the wider
community.

1.4 Research and Impact Strategy Achievements

In REF2014, we described seven strategies centred around well communities research, to sustain
and expand our allied health research environment for public harm reduction and improving health
outcomes in neighbouring East London communities. We further planned to leverage our global
researcher networks for inward research investment. Global drivers and a major re-structure of the
University and the School in 2017 have since recalibrated the full implementation of some of those
strategies. By the end of 2020 IHHD will be integrated into a new Institute of Connected
Communities to promote well communities with a broader scope that includes cybersafety, online
harms and methodological innovation, without losing their traditional research focus in human
health and wellbeing. The driver for these changes was a response to stakeholder needs and a
strategic focus on the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (SDG goals; 2016). This
further harmonised our allied health research environment under the university’s strategy (Vision
2028), with a focus on “Society, Health, and Well-being” (SDG 3), “Tackling health inequalities”
(SDG 10), and societal harm reduction under “Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions” (SDG16).

In REF2014, 86% of our UoA submission was rated world leading or internationally excellent (19%
and 67% of our submission respectively). This represented a significant step-change in the quality
of research outputs, impact and environment since RAE2008. In REF2014 we submitted 14.8 FTE
researchers in UoA3, this has grown to over 29 in REF2021 and the impact cases are aligned with
the SDG priorities, building on our research since 2005. We outline below the extent to which the
UOA has achieved the strategic aims set out in REF2014 for the current period.
 a. Continue to support experienced researchers and develop early career researchers (ECRs)
     This has been an integral part of the ongoing strategy (see Section 2 People). Allied health
     researchers at every level have been encouraged to maintain and increase their research
     networks through collaborations, supervising PGRs in experienced teams that include

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     externals and disseminating research outcomes through publications and conference
     presentations. ECRs are supported to accept appropriate levels of responsibility for research
     fundraising, including Fellowships. In house mentoring of ECRs includes one to one meetings,
     workshops, sessions on grant-writing and dissemination strategy. A good example of the
     success in this area is the research on social prescribing, one of our impact cases led by
     Bertotti (recently promoted to Reader) and supported by Frostick, which have projected them
     into national leadership in this area.

b. Strengths in contributing to clinical guidelines/recommendations; and ensure our work
   receives maximum academic exposure by targeting top journals and maximising citations.
   The Institute almost doubled the output volume of systematic reviews and evaluations
   compared to the previous REF period. We further developed our capacity for conducting
   systematic reviews that underpinned NICE guidance and informed our programmes of primary
   research (see outputs). We maintained our active membership of the Cochrane Collaboration,
   primarily through the Cochrane Qualitative and Implementation Methods Group, delivering
   workshops at international conferences, updating the Cochrane Handbook, and publishing
   guidance. During this period, the UoA produced several systematic reviews including youth
   involvement in research-1 (Harden), suicide prevention-1 (Netuveli), allergen immunotherapy-
   4 (Netuveli)).

c. Increase the size and number of collaborative inter-disciplinary bids with established and new
   partners, locally, nationally and internationally and maximise the non-academic impact of our
   research.
   See section 4 Collaboration and contributions to the research base, economy, and
   society. Currently, we have projects with Hackney Council for Voluntary Services, London
   Borough of Newham, Tower Hamlets, Department of Health, Public Health England, NHS
   England, Conexus, Bromley by Bow, Office for Communications, European Union with a value
   of about GBP299K.

d. Deliver major increases in the size and nature of our external funding applications targeting:
   See section 4 Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy, and
   society. There was appreciable increase in the number, variety and quality of research bids,
   as evidenced by grant successes. A few examples include funding from RCUK and NIHR, the
   Commonwealth Fund, the Society for the Study of Addiction (externally funded PhD
   scholarship) and various GCRF funds were competitively awarded.

e. Develop further our research-training environment for researchers at all stages of
   development from post-graduate student through to senior professor
   See section 2. The strategic alignment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals in 2016
   has harmonised multidisciplinary research under one major theme. ECRs and PhD students
   join research groups where they are mentored by the Professoriate. In addition to the
   opportunities offered to the staff through seminars, discussions and conferences we evolved
   the idea of the “Living Laboratory”: non-academic partners from local government, third sector
   and health services are peer-mentored in participatory research methods.

f.   Seek to develop joint PhD studentships in collaboration with our partners and grow our
     numbers of RFs and PhD students.
     See Section 2 on PGRs. During this period, the UoA completed over 30 PhD students
     compared to 14 in the previous REF, through revised PGR support and improved training of
     ECRs as supervisors in teams with experienced academics. A higher proportion of students

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    were externally funded and completion rates were greatly improved compared to REF2014.
    An early strategic decision was made to commit to a long-term investment of the majority of
    the QR funding into supporting PhD scholarships in key strategic research areas. This has
    the added benefit of creating and supporting local research groups and their embedded
    senior researchers.



 2. People

2.1 Staffing Strategy, Recruitment and Retention

The staffing strategy within the UoA is designed to support research-informed teaching of our very
ethnically and racially diverse student body. Our undergraduate students primarily come from the
local East London community, but with a significant international component particularly at PG level
(taught and research) who also reflect and enrich the diversity of East London. The staffing strategy
is designed around delivering research and consultancy objectives for the same ethnically and
racially diverse local, national, and international constituencies.
A key component of the school’s strategy for attracting and retaining high calibre research active
staff, is to encourage new staff to maintain research relationships (e.g., by holding honorary positions
at previous HEIs) and grow their research networks. This is exemplified by Smyth who joined the
school in 2015: she continues to collaborate, publishing and submitting funding applications, with
her former colleagues, which gives access to the resources at the collaborating laboratories at King’s
College London. This practice has extended to our new nursing colleagues and an example is Davies
who maintains strong relationships and performs consultancy work with various NHS partners which
enhances income generation and offers research possibilities. All new staff are inducted into the
institutional research support, research ethics and integrity practices as a matter of routine.
Additionally, all researchers are mentored by the Professoriate ensuring that good practices are
disseminated, and that effective one-to-one support is available. ECRs are been research-mentored
towards PI status through open competitions for university and school PhD scholarships, funded by
REF2014 QR allocations, which has been a central pillar of our long-term research investment
strategy. During the period, several IHHD staff won honorary contracts within the NHS (Harden,
Bertotti, Van Bortel, Findlay, Renton) ensuring that our research is driven by, and embedded in,
health-related policy and practice. Additionally, staff are encouraged to make links with local health
providers: for example, Sharpe and other colleagues are embedded in local authority public health
committees where they provide expert advice, rapid reviews, data evaluation and so forth.

2.2 Equality Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

The university’s EDI policies are central to the staffing strategy of the school and institute. UEL
gained Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2017 and Race Equality Charter (REC) Bronze in 2019, with
staff from the UoA acting as key drivers in both of these achievements. For most of the process,
Corcoran chaired the university Athena SWAN self-assessment team (SAT) and Morgan led on data
analysis and Wilson chairing the REC SAT. Corcoran also provided support for the psychology
application which gained the Bronze award in 2018. HSB will submit a departmental bronze Athena
SWAN application in April 2021. More than 50% of the UoA staff are either BAME or female, as an
indication of progress this number was less than 25% in 2005. Staff within our UoA are working
closely with the newly formed Office for Institutional Equity (OIE), to which Wilson was appointed as
Dean in 2019, to better align our staff and the research we do even more with the diversity of our
student body and the local community, to achieve this an OIE officer is embedded in the school.


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.3 Research leadership

Research Leadership of the UoA is in the hands of the Professoriate, including Harden, Findlay and
Netuveli in the Institute and Turner, Corcoran, Cutler in HSB. Morgan is the Director of Impact and
Innovation with overall responsibility for leading the school in research. Corcoran provides an
example of the supportive environment within the unit as she was submitted to RAE2008 as ECR,
promoted to Reader 2009 and submitted to REF2014 as Professor. The Professoriate have regular
joint meetings to ensure our research strategies are operationally aligned in the research groups and
institute.

2.4 Researcher Development and ECR

The UoA has taken an inclusive approach to developing researchers at all levels. This has led to
other promotions to Reader and Professor during the period, including Morgan and Bertotti to
Reader, with Cutler and Seed from Reader to Professor, all are now taking leading roles in the UoA
in 2020. UEL provides excellent training opportunities for researchers at all levels, both at School
level and through central provision. Researchers in the school are encouraged to participate in the
Researcher Development Excellence framework delivered by the Graduate School which is
researcher-driven through software training, networking events, UEL’s Annual Research
Conference, College Research Meetings, social media, and public dissemination. Staff are also
encouraged to apply for central and school research initiatives, this has led to many staff being
awarded funding for short sabbaticals, funding for PhD studentships, post-doctoral internships,
international travel, general research expenses and conference fees.

Evidence of the effectiveness of the mechanisms specifically designed to support new and existing
ECR including UEL Early Career Researcher Awards (60k) for Esposito and Ayoub. Further
testament to the success of our ECR development processes by the professoriate is the fact that
some of our researchers have been able to advance their careers elsewhere during the current REF
period. Many have progressed to senior positions including George to Reader at Leeds Becket 2017;
Rallis to Essex 2020; Mkrytchyn to UWL as a Director of Research in 2020. Our internal funding
policy for developing researchers has resulted in external funding success including a John Goldman
Fellowship awarded to Esposito GBP128,000 at UEL 2017 for researching Mixed Lineage
Leukaemia in Children. Rahman was awarded a British Council and RSC Grant (GBP31,900) in
2017, he was also awarded a Newton-Bhabha grant (GBP11,200) in 2017 for a PhD placement of
an Indian student at UEL, and a Commonwealth universities Fund (GBP58K) for 5 professional
fellows to in 2016-2017; Rahman was also successful again with an award to fund three
Commonwealth Fellows (37K) in 2020.

2.5 Research groupings

To further support and develop our researchers and PGRs, all research active staff and PGRs belong
to at least one of our research groups or work closely with colleagues in the institute:

The Medicines Research Group (2007) embraces translational medicine themes underpinning
Global Health across the biomedical disciplines concerning the quality, safety, and mechanisms of
action for prescription and over the counter medicines. The Group's multidisciplinary expertise spans
drug discovery and development, chemistry, toxicology, addiction pharmacology, pharmacognosy,
microbiology and biopharmaceuticals. Colleagues from the group lead by Corcoran were involved in
one of the first EU human trials of e-cigarettes as a smoking cessation aid to reduce lung cancer
incidence in nicotine addiction (with colleagues in the school of Psychology UoA4). They have also

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
developed a fruit fly model of alcohol addiction in collaboration with Society for the Study of Addiction
including a fully funded PGR student.

The Infection & Immunity Research Group (2009) focuses on microbiology and immunology as core
medical sciences, host pathogen interactions; virulence factors; immunity and transplantation
research; antimicrobial drug resistance in communities. The work of the group has significant reach
outside academia. Mkrtchyan worked with colleagues in Armenia and India on the assessment of
community reservoirs of antimicrobial resistance, the result of this study is beginning to change local
public policy. Cutler has several international collaborations including in Nigeria (Africa Research
Excellence Fund) and Japan. Our immunologists research novel therapeutic interventions to improve
tolerance of organ transplants reducing NHS costs and improving quality of life for transplant patients
(Smyth’s research funded by Rosetrees Trust and the British Heart Foundation).

The Clinical Research Group (2017) focuses on translational and clinical applied health research for
the alleviation of human chronic disease. Gallagher received GBP252K from the Scholl Fund to
evaluate the clinical cost-effectiveness of prefabricated foot orthoses for people with early
Rheumatoid Arthritis. The group has also been involved in Crohn’s disease research with Seed and
Carpenter receiving funding for UK clinical trial on benefits of exercise. Turner has been involved
with multiple partners working on robot-assisted therapy for the upper limb after stroke which could
have significant clinical applications in the future.

The Applied Sports and Exercise Sciences Group (2020) is our most recent and is led by a relatively
junior lecturer, Galbraith. The focus of the group is community level sport and exercise interventions.
Their success includes ASICS and compression garment-funded PhD students; publications on
cognitive benefits of fitness and exercise; research on wearable technologies and performance
enhancement in elite sport, strength and conditioning; and sport psychology, in collaboration with
colleagues in psychology. The strategic plan for this group is to develop sufficient critical mass to
enable submission in a futre sports and exercise science, or leisure and tourism unit of assessment.

2.6 PGRs

Delivery of the research objectives of the UoA is heavily reliant on our strategy of investing in PGR
students. Starting with admissions, applicants go through a structured procedure including interview
and are recruited on a combination of their academic performance, research potential and
possession of core competencies for the project they will pursue. The process is led by our PGR
leader Cutler with support from Morgan as Director of Impact and innovation. PGRs are supported
by internally and externally funded studentships, we have also been very successful in attracting
self-funding students. Since RAE2008 we have created PhD bursaries and also secured PhD
studentships through external research grants such as ASICS, Society for the Study of Addiction
and NIHR CLAHRC funded studentships. Our PhD student cohort has grown from 8 at the start of
the REF period to 28 currently enrolled for PhDs and a further 7 MRes students. Many were former
undergraduate or postgraduate taught students. One such example is Bashir who was a successful
international MSc student, she then returned to complete her PhD part-funded by the school, she is
now working as a lecturer in her home country. We have worked hard to improved overall satisfaction
which has risen from 56% in 2015 to 67% in 2018 (PRES 2018), these results compare favourably
with our benchmarking institutes. The general improvements in student satisfaction and completions
can be partly attributed to support and training from the graduate school. An example of how they
have worked to support our students is the collaboration with Queen Mary’s University of London,
which furnishes our students with a comprehensive array of training programmes under the
Researcher Development Framework. These opportunities include: academic writing, presenting at

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
conferences, grant writing by bidding for career development funds and travel grants and other
training aligned to enhance the PGR experience. Training needs are regularly reviewed by
supervisory teams and through an annual monitoring review process coordinated centrally. The
Graduate School also provides competitive support for PGRs to have short external placements
under their internship scheme, providing opportunity for more specialist training as required. This
scheme has enabled PGRs to have short placements in specialist laboratories including recently to
Japan and Germany to learn a technique essential to their studies and another who undertook
fieldwork studies in Nigeria. This training also provides opportunities for the PGRs to develop their
grant writing skills.

The quality of the supervisory experience for PGRs was one of the top scoring categories following
the 2018 PRES survey. Our UoA had 91% as opposed to 83% for UEL in 2015 and the post-92
sector norm of 86%. All PGR students are aligned with one of our research groups which provides
wider support and are required to participate in our PGR research conferences, journal club and
attend university research seminars. One example of the strength of our training and support is that
in 2019/20 several of our PGRs contributed towards national competitions such as three-minute
thesis (3MT), with one progressing to the national finals.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income

Being a relatively small unit of assessment and based in a post-92 institution primarily focused on
teaching, we are creative in how and where we apply for funding. Although we do compete for more
conventional funds, this is often with external partners from the larger research units. Our major
sources of funding are for projects which build on our strengths of working with UK central government
bodies, NIHR, NHS, NICE, London borough councils and various charities. We use our position and
impact as a university embedded in the local community with a commitment to improve their health
and wellbeing. Key examples of larger grants include Findlay as PI of the Big Lottery funded Well
London (Phase 2) programme (GBP500k to UEL) which forms part of an impact case study; Harden
as the PI of a NIHR funded project “Antenatal Equity: Improving Access to and experience of antenatal
care (REACH)” (GBP2m with GBP896K to UEL), two projects funded by UCLPartners: “Low Birth-
Weight in Newham: Definition, antecedents and prevention” (GBP400K), and “The impact of "churn"
on health and health services in Newham” (GBP399K). Netuveli is CI in a large UKRI GCRF (through
MRC) project led by Moorfields Eye Hospital Trust, UCL, UEL, Imperial College London and Oxford;
the ORNATE India project (GBP6.9M, GBP298K to UEL). We have also been successful in attracting
funding to do basic research including Gallagher awarded GBP252k from the Scholl Fund and Seed
and Carpenter receiving funding for Crohn’s UK clinical trial on benefits of exercise (GBP36k) Smyth
was co-PI for a British Heart Foundation grant on Organ Transplantation with her collaborators at
King’s College London (GBP257,000). Rahman secured Commonwealth (GBP58,825 in 2017 and
GBP36,300 in 2020), Newton-Bhaba (GBP11,200) and British Council (GBP31,900) grants as lead
applicant. Turner was part of a consortium which secured GBP3.1m for a “Robot-assisted therapy for
the upper limb after stroke – RATULS trial” (UK-NIHR / Dept. Health funded; 2014-2019). The variety
and size of the funding the unit has successfully competed for is testament to the positive and creative
environment we have developed during the period.

3.2 Income from SMEs, consultancy and project evaluation

The school hosts several SMEs including Oppilotech Ltd and ZEAB therapeutics who use our
laboratory facilities to undertake research and service contracts. Both companies started from
research ideas generated within the school including from George and Raynham (antimicrobial

                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
peptides) leading to the formation of Oppilotech Ltd and Morgan (bile acids) and the formation of
ZEAB therapeutics. These companies have gained significant financial backing from the private
sector and now employ several full-time staff to develop their ideas. A third company, BiosearLab
is a Community Interest Company, specializing in conducting biomedical research on issues of
interest to the local and broader community. The existence and success of these companies is
evidence of the impact of our research. Confidentiality about their projects prevents us from using
them as an impact case study. The operational activities of the companies generates significant
direct and indirect income for the UoA which is reinvested in research within the unit. In addition
to the income, students and staff from the university benefit from the individuals and equipment the
companies attract. In addition, the proximity of the companies and the entrepreneurial environment
they provide creates an alternative vision of how research can be done and an alternative career
path for our students and ECR. In terms of consultancy and evaluation work the connection of
some staff to the NHS have resulted in several evaluation projects including a Strategic
Interventions in Health Education Disciplines (SIHED) Challenge Fund project worth GBP50K, this
is seen a growing area of research income.

3.3 Infrastructure and facilities

Our research has benefited from continual school and institutional investment in superb facilities
and state-of-the-art equipment and laboratory facilities (GBP1.5m from 2014-2018). We have
refurbished office space for the PGR students including dedicated spaces for those doing research
and students in the writing phase. We have also added a dedicated laboratories and space for
those undertaking their research in sport (GBP300K). Other office space includes specific meeting
rooms for IHHD which make it easier for researchers to undertake qualitative research. In addition,
the space will allow us to fulfil our ambition to become the local hub for applied health research and
knowledge exchange for health, social care, community and business organisation across East
London.

There has been major investment in equipment for our medical laboratories including the award
winning vicon 10 camera motion capture system, additional gait assessment systems (Data Gait;
Mat Scan), upgraded Portable UltraSound imaging, KinCom dynamometer, Oxycon, to support of
supporting the work of Gallagher and other colleagues. We have invested in Robotic technology
(Interactive Motion Technologies, Inc.) to complete research by Turner at clinical sites including
Addenbookes Hospital, Cambridge and UCL Partner Trusts. We continue to refurbish and upgrade
our wet laboratory spaces including restructuring our Cell Culture Facility. There has been
substantial investment in genomic/proteomic and cellular and ion channel electrophysiological
equipment (e.g., Accuri C6 FACS, gel documentation systemFlow cytometry, real-time PCR
thermocyclers, Electrophysiology workstation, LC-DAD and LC-ESI-MS systems, Latach QC8500
analyser) to support the research of staff and PGRs and even our colleagues in the SMEs.

3.4 Benefits in kind

Our networks and collaborations provide additional benefits in kind that are just as valuable as
income, for example students and researchers are granted access to labs and equipment in other
universities via collaborators including the London Metabolomics Network (UCL, Imperial, QMUL
and King’s College London). Other colleagues receive benefit in kind through working with health
service staff time on projects like REACH (Barts & The London) and ORNATE India (Department
of Health, Govt. of Kerala).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

The overarching philosophy which underpins our research at UEL and in the UoA is to undertake
research that has impact in the East London community, but also nationally and internationally. The
academic networks of staff are widespread and have grown extensively throughout this period with
high quality collaborations with colleagues all over the world. All staff are encouraged to develop and
participate in relevant research collaborations, networks, and partnerships with researchers to
maximise the quality, reach and impact of our research.

We currently work with local, regional, national and international collaborators including:

 a. Local and regional
• In 2012, the Schools of Health, Sport & Bioscience and Psychology set up the UEL Health
    Commission to showcase UEL's research for health leaders and policy makers and to ensure
    that our research continues to address relevant research questions going forward. As a result
    of the commission, later in 2012, UEL joined University College London Partners (UCLP);
    whose purpose is to translate cutting edge research and innovation into measurable health
    gains for patients and populations locally, nationally, and internationally. This is an important
    strategic method of supporting our research. Since joining the partnership, our public health
    topic expertise and long-standing experience in collaborative research with end users has been
    used to support UCLP's successful Academic Health Science Network (AHSN) application.
    The UCLP AHSNs is one of only five accredited networks in the UK. Since joining UCLP in
    2012 the relationship continues to support UEL research, with numerous benefits and
    outcomes which is evidenced in our three impact case studies.
• Our UoA colleagues represent UEL as one of the four university partners (alongside UCL,
    LSHTM, QMUL) in the North Thames Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Research in
    Health and Care (CLAHRC) led by UCL (Harden, Netuveli, Renton, Sharpe, Moore) attracting
    funding of GBP10m 2013-2019 from the NIHR). The North Thames CLAHRC is a collaboration
    of 54 partners, including world leading universities, the NHS, UCL Partners, local authorities,
    patients, the public, industry, and charities. The aim is to improve health outcomes and reduce
    inequalities through world class applied health research. During the period, our UoA lead the
    child and adolescent theme within the CLAHRC (Harden), have supervised a CLAHRC funded
    UEL PhD student (Harden, Sharpe) and have developed and evaluated a ‘Young
    Commissioner’ model to ensure that public services are designed to better meet the needs of
    children and young people (Harden, Sharpe) and this forms one of our impact case studies.
    This model has been identified as best practice by the NIHR and NHS England and is now
    being implemented in other areas across the country.
• The CLAHRC will continue as the North Thames ARC with renewed funding (NIHR, GBP10m,
    2019-2024). We will continue to represent UEL within this collaboration. Staff with world leading
    track records in applied health research from our UoA and more widely in UEL are named as
    key investigators (Harden, Netuveli, Van Bortel, Brimicombe, J Turner) alongside staff from
    UCL, City, QMUL, LSHTM, and the LSE.
• Working closely with our community our biomedical, nursing and IHHD colleagues have been
    supporting the COVID-19 efforts through the NHS Nightingale hospital provisioning, staffing
    community testing, and providing data evaluation and rapid reviews to support Newham public
    health. In response to the national COVID vaccination scheme, nursing colleagues, are
    contributing their expertise to Newham Health Collaborative by training and educating local
    volunteer vaccinators, in addition to extending student nurse placements into the vaccination
    hubs to support this national initiative.

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 b. National and International
• Bertotti and Frostick from the IHHD lead on evaluation and training development of social
    prescribing in this Network an NHS funded national network with 1,500 members
    (commissioners, practitioners, lay members, researchers). The network aims to support the
    development of social prescribing nationwide and internationally.
• The IHHD team lead by Bertotti is in partnership with Elemental an award-winning tech for
    good company which designs and provides digital tools to support the roll out of social
    prescribing in the UK and internationally. In this partnership we are developing digital tools to
    support those delivering social prescribing to assess the economic and health impact of this
    intervention.
 • Carpenter and Seed worked closely with Crohn’s UK, Hertfordshire, alongside Newcastle &
    others to investigate the benefits of exercise in managing Crohn’s disease.
• Casalotti and Pendry along with colleagues from the school of Psychology have been working
    closely with an Alcohol Addiction Project in East London with Build on Belief, a Peer-led
    community addiction service.
• Smyth works closely with former colleagues at King’s College London on projects to improve
    organ rejection therapeutics.
• Nigel Davies is part of a collaboration with King’s College London on an NIHR funded post-
    Francis national evaluation of the implementation of regular nursing rounds in acute hospitals.
• Turner is a key participant working with the EU rehabilitation trial RATULs (Robot Assisted
    Training for the Upper Limbs in Stroke), which incorporates numerous partners including UCL
    partners with the aim of improving recovery from stoke injury.
• Cutler has been involved with two ECDC-funded tenders on analysis of tick-borne disease
    burden and neuroborreliosis to inform European policy.
• Reddy is working closely with colleagues in Brazil to design novel therapeutics for the
    neglected tropical disease leishmaniasis using in silico and synthetic technologies. The project
    is funded by the Brazilian Government.
• In India Rahman has used funding from the Commonwealth Fund, Bhaba Fund and CGRF to
    disseminate awareness of antimicrobial resistance.
• In 2014, the IHHD was invited to evaluate the existing health system in Kerala, India and helped
    to lay the infrastructure for a Primary Care Service; first of its kind in India. Netuveli is part of
    an ongoing GCRF funded project (2018-21) to prevent blindness due to diabetic retinopathy
    with collaborators from Moorfields NHS Trust, UCL, Imperial College London, Oxford, Kings
    College London, and partners from India including the Govt of Kerala. A direct impact of this
    project is the development of a diabetic retinopathy care pathway based on the UK model but
    for low- and middle-income countries. This model has been formally adopted by Kerala Health
    Services and is under consideration in other states of India. UEL is the primary partner in this
    project for the evaluation of the process and implementation.

4.2 Public understanding of science

This section will highlight some of the many examples where members in the UoA take part in public
engagement activities which enhances our interactions with the world outside the University.
Several colleagues from the Medicines Research Group use their knowledge of science and applied
health to work closely with the Anthony Nolan Trust to increase the number, racial and ethnic
diversity of individuals on the bone marrow register. Another group of colleagues worked on projects
in East London around public health messaging for diabetes. Colleagues in the Infection & Immunity
group and Public Health work closely with local education authorities on a Lice Education program

                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
in schools. Other projects include working with Newham Science After-School Clubs, tackling
awareness about TB and a Wilderness Exercise program for young people. Since the start of the
COVID-19 pandemic staff (Cutler, Sharpe, and Morgan) in the UoA have been involved in numerous
initiatives around the public understanding of the impact of COVID-19 and engaging with all forms
of media including newspapers, radio and television and feeding into the government call for expert
comments.

4.3 Peer esteem

This UoA brings together expertise to carry out research on health and wellbeing and their social,
economic and cultural determinants. The research produced has developed the capacity to influence and
drive changes in health policy, service intervention and health system design locally, nationally and
internationally. Research in this UoA is strengthened by our position and membership of key committees
and boards in the NHS. Examples include Perry is convenor for the Council of Deans (England) in her
role she can Influence policy and practice in healthcare education. Pendry is a member of the
governments Herbal Medicine Advisory Committee (HMAC). Bruce-Low is on the scientific advisory
board for UK Active. Abrahamson is a member Registrant Board Member of the Complementary and
Natural Healthcare Council and also National Chair of the General Council of Massage Therapy. Rahman
worked as a member of the Scientific committee on the Young Scientists’ Meeting on Advances in
Phytochemical Analysis organised by the Phytochemical Society of Europe (PSE). He was also a member
of the International advisory committee on the 18th International Congress of the International Society for
Ethnopharmacology jointly with the Society for Ethnopharmacology India held at the University of Dhaka,
Bangladesh. He also acted as Deputy Chair of Academy of Pharmaceutical Science (APSGB) focus
group on 'Drugs from Natural Sources. In addition, we have many colleagues on journal Editorial boards.
Cutler serves as an associate editor for Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases, the journal of the
European Society for Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases. She also serves on the Institute for
Biomedical Sciences virology advisory panel and as an executive committee member of the Society for
Applied Microbiology. She also chairs the senior clinical fellowships grant awards panel for FWO in
Brussels.




                                                                                                 Page 11
