Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 The Courtauld Institute of Art
 Unit of Assessment:
 32 – Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Context and Structure

The Courtauld is a small, specialist institute dedicated to art history, conservation, and curating.
Founded in 1932 to conduct teaching and research and endowed with one of the nation’s finest art
collections, since 2002 it has been an independent college of the University of London. It employs
140 FTE staff, including 37 (35.85 FTE) Category A researchers. In 2019/20, 545 students were
enrolled on UG, PGT, PGR and PG Diploma programmes; degrees are awarded by the University
of London. Approximately 57% of our students are enrolled on postgraduate courses.

The Courtauld is led by Professor Deborah Swallow, Märit Rausing Director. The Dean and Deputy
Director leads the academic departments; The Gallery is managed by the Head of the Gallery. The
Courtauld’s collection comprises nearly 600 paintings, 550 sculptural and decorative works,
approximately 7k drawings, and circa 27k prints. Faculty and curators are engaged in The
Courtauld’s governance at every level. Research is facilitated by the Research Committee, chaired
by the Head of Research and including the Director and Dean, with representation from academic
and curatorial departments. It reports to the Academic Board, to which all members of the faculty
and the Head of the Gallery belong; the Academic Board reports to the Governing Board, which
includes four elected representatives from The Courtauld’s faculty and gallery. This governance
model ensures that Courtauld researchers play a critical role in developing and approving strategy
and policy, including for research.

The Courtauld’s researchers belong to three departments: History of Art, Conservation, the
Gallery. The History of Art Department, The Courtauld’s largest department, has 27.45 FTE
Category A research staff, and offers academic programmes including a BA, Graduate Diploma,
MA in the History of Art, and MA in Curating the Art Museum. The Conservation Department, with
4.6 FTE Category A faculty, is a new organisational structure, established in 2020 to build on the
strengths of two longstanding units (respectively, the Wall Painting Conservation and Conservation
and Technology Departments); it offers MAs in Wall Painting Conservation and Buddhist Art and
Conservation, and a 3-year postgraduate diploma in Easel Painting conservation. The Courtauld
Gallery includes 3.8 FTE Category A curators with responsibility for research. The Public
Programmes Department, managed by the Dean, provides programmes for learners of all ages,
with a particular focus on widening access to art history for young people.

Following REF2014, we enhanced research support by creating a Research Department led by the
Head of Research; we increased research capacity by establishing a Research Office with
responsibility for REF preparation and grant capture (pre- and post-award). The Research Forum,
a hub that serves researchers across and beyond The Courtauld, also sits under the Research
Department umbrella. Established in 2003 and directed by the Head of Research, it enables
collaboration within and across departmental structures. It incubates new research, for example as
the primary ‘home ’for postdoctoral researchers, and it is the context where research is
workshopped, debated, and disseminated.

1.2 Research Strategy, 2013-20

The Courtauld’s strategy for research and impact is underpinned by our institutional mission,
codified in our Memorandum of Association, to benefit the public through research, study and
practice in art history and conservation, and to advance education in the arts through the
collections and exhibitions of The Courtauld Gallery. Building on the successes reported in
REF2014 and a review of all aspects of our research policies, priorities, and infrastructure, The
Courtauld’s Research Strategy for 2016-21 has focused on the following key strategic goals. We


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
have highlighted where these goals overlap with later sections of the REF5b template at the end of
each paragraph.

(1) Broadening the Research Base. The Courtauld’s established strengths are in medieval and
renaissance, early modern, and modern and contemporary art. These have been further reinforced
through new hires in fields including Medieval Europe (Barker and Bovey); Global Early Modern
(Chadwick, Mann, and Whiteman); and American art (Applin and Peters Corbett). Research
capacity in the conservation of art grew through new faculty appointments (Gottschaller,
Richardson, and Tringham), and the specialist Martin Halusa Curator of Drawings (Gottardo). Our
long-term strategy is to nourish and extend this expertise while developing competencies in fields
that have been underrepresented within The Courtauld and across the wider discipline. Building on
the faculty appointments in Buddhist art & conservation, Iranian & Islamic art, and Modern &
Contemporary Chinese art reported in REF2014, the appointment of Whiteman (2018) added
further geographical and temporal range through the addition of Early Modern China. Funds were
also secured in 2019 from The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation (US$750k) to support the
appointment of a Professor and a Lecturer specialising in Black art histories and critical race art
history, appointments which have been made for the 2021-22 academic year. [2.1; 3.1]

(2) Developing Thematic and Methodological Range. Complementing an expansion in faculty
research specialisms, The Courtauld introduced a system of cross-institutional Research Centres,
Clusters, and Groups in 2019/20. Building on established groupings based on historical period,
these new structures enable greater interdepartmental and external collaboration, better articulate
areas of research strength that cut across historical periods and geographies, and facilitate more
agile response to emerging research themes. We formalised Research Centres as a configuration
that responds to a significant research priority and is established with significant external funding.
A strategic priority for the REF2021 period was to reshape and grow our longstanding engagement
with American art history. With Terra Foundation’s support, we established The Courtauld Centre
for American Art in 2016, recruiting Peters Corbett as its first director. This follows the successful
establishment of the Robert H.N. Ho Family Foundation Centre for Buddhist Art and Conservation
in 2012, which supports our cross-disciplinary, globalising strategy. Ten substantial Research
Clusters, representing broad fields of research activity and nurturing a diverse range of approaches
and priorities, were established through the Research Committee, each with an annual budget.
Ten small Research Groups, designed to respond to pressing, focused research priorities, were
also awarded internal Research Forum funding. [2.5; 3.1; 4.3]

(3) Supporting Faculty and Curatorial Staff. A continued institutional priority has been to support
the individual research goals of staff and the collective ambition to act as an international leader in
the fields in which we operate. Particular areas of focus since REF2014 have been close
monitoring of workload expectations, sustained investment in personal and internal research
budgets, and provision of leave (including support for applications to external funding bodies).
Institutional expectation, reflected in an updated work allocation model established in 2019, is for
all faculty to have c. 40% of their time p.a. allocated to research. Faculty and curators receive an
annual grant of £2k to facilitate research through travel and resources such as books and
equipment. A system of annual meetings between all faculty and curatorial staff and the Head of
Research has also been implemented at which individual research plans, and appropriate
institutional support, are discussed in depth. In the context of a small specialist institutions, the hire
of a 1.0 FTE Research Manager from 2019 has been critical to The Courtauld’s competitiveness
and ability to prepare high-quality external funding applications. [2.1; 2.2; 2.3; 3.2]

(4) Facilitating Collaborative and Interdisciplinary Research. As a specialist institution,
interdisciplinary research offers opportunity to expand research scope at all levels, and to train our
students in new methodologies and research approaches. Sustained cross-disciplinary research
has been enabled by successful applications to external funding bodies, as demonstrated through
Courtauld-led projects supported by the AHRC (Arnold, Arscott), Getty (Cross & Richardson,
Eastmond), and Leon Levy Foundation (Conservation Department). These projects have fostered
local, national and international partnerships, ranging from academics and practitioners in London-
based partner institutions (KCL, UCL, the London College of Fashion, Royal Museums Greenwich)

                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
to collaborators in Turkey (Boğazici University), Georgia (Tbilisi State University), Armenia
(Institute of Ancient Manuscripts), and India (Mehrangarh Museum Trust). [3.1; 4.2]

(5) Developing PhD Students and Early Career Researchers. A successful funding application to
the Sackler Trust (£200k p.a. to support Research Forum activity for five years ending in 2020)
built upon earlier funding received from The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation and enabled the
recruitment of eight postdoctoral researchers during the REF period. Further support for early
career researchers has been received from sources including the Terra Foundation for American
Art, Samuel H. Kress Foundation, European Commission, and British Academy; once appointed,
postdoctoral scholars have the same level of access to internal, competitively awarded, research
grants as permanent faculty members.

The Courtauld remains an active member of the CHASE Doctoral Training Partnership, now in its
eighth year. CHASE funded 77 Courtauld PGR students between 2013/14 and 19/20 (48
completed, 29 active). In the same period, over £2.7m was raised for postgraduate scholarships,
with a further £1.7m allocated from The Courtauld’s endowment for the same purposes. The
launch of an Early Career Researcher Network in 2016 built upon continued support for doctoral
training offered by University of London collaborations and CHASE, benefitting PGRs, postdoctoral
fellows, and associate lecturers. Supported by Research Forum funding, this network has hosted
regular events and training sessions, including with partner institutions such as the Paul Mellon
Centre for British Art and the Association for Art History. [2.3; 2.4; 2.5]

(6) Ensuring Best Research Practice. The Courtauld’s Research Committee is responsible for the
continued development and maintenance of a framework for high quality research, conducted in
line with recognised standards. It has been supported from 2018 by the establishment of an
independent Ethics Committee whose membership is determined by the Governing Board’s
Governance and Nominations Committee. The Ethics Committee advises on all aspects of
research ethics and related policies and serves as the appeals committee for the REF2021
submission. To ensure continued engagement with best practice in the sector, The Courtauld is
working to implement the UUK Concordat to Support Research Integrity. [2.2]

(7) Building Research Infrastructure. Significant investment in physical research infrastructure has
been made in the context of the Courtauld Connects capital project. This project will result in
refurbishment of the historic galleries and Prints and Drawings Study Room at Somerset House,
installation of state-of-the art instrumentation and laboratory facilities in the Conservation Studios,
and creation of new research-specific spaces (including an Object Study Room). Over £46m was
raised to support this activity by July 2020, including £9.5m from the National Lottery Heritage
Fund. This transformation has been accompanied by the creation of The Courtauld’s expanded
Conservation Department, following an external review of conservation teaching and research in
2019 led by Dr David Saunders (Emeritus Keeper of Conservation and Research Science, British
Museum). Local digital infrastructure has been supported through the procurement and launch of a
new Current Research Information System (CRIS) in 2016; further engagement with Open Access
policy from this point led The Courtauld to work closely with the Association for Art History in
crafting a response to UKRI’s 2020 consultation on the issue, particularly focusing on discipline-
specific image licensing challenges connected to OA publication. [3.2]

(8) Unlocking Our Collections. The Courtauld’s research strategy undertakes to make our
collections of art, books, photographs, archives and special collections accessible to students,
specialists, and the public, in person and online. Following the closure of the Courtauld Gallery in
2018, the expertise of Gerstein, Gottardo, Serres and Wright has been instrumental in establishing
a programme of loans and exhibitions across the UK and internationally, attracting over 1.13m
visitors. The Gallery’s collection of some 34k works has been digitised, with detailed catalogue
records to be searchable online in late 2021. This activity has been accompanied by an ambitious
project to digitise the 3.6m photographs in the Witt and Conway picture libraries; 280k Witt
photographs were digitised in a pilot project on the British School, and c.750k photographs were
digitised from the Conway (a collection of photographs of world architecture, drawings, sculpture,
ivories, seals, metalwork, manuscript illumination, stained glass, wall paintings, panel paintings and

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
textiles) by July 2020. Supported by the National Lottery Heritage Fund, this project involved more
than a thousand volunteers. [3.2; 4.2]

1.3 Impact Strategy, 2013-20

The Courtauld was founded in order to enable public understanding, benefit, and enjoyment of the
visual arts, driven by research and engagement with works of art. During the REF2021 cycle we
have focused sharply on our impact strategy for the 21st century, developing new mechanisms for
sharing research and making significant strategic investments in activity and facilities that will
ensure our sustained contribution to the visual arts ecosystem. A research impact workshop for all
Courtauld faculty and curators was convened in 2016 in order to embed impact further into our
institutional culture. Led by Professor Paul Greenhalgh (UEA), this resulted in new approaches to
how The Courtauld engages with the impact agenda, with impact support becoming a defined
priority area for internal applications to the Courtauld Research Support Grants scheme. This
process was also crucial in defining, and placing a renewed emphasis on, curatorial activity as a
critical strand of public engagement and research impact, as articulated in our 2016-21 Research
Strategy.

The Courtauld Connects transformation project has been a major impetus for change in how
Courtauld researchers engage with a wider institutional impact strategy. The capital works have
been accompanied by an ambitious, ongoing activity plan which enables innovative dissemination
opportunities and numerous partnerships throughout the United Kingdom. Supported by this
project, we have launched new programmes dedicated to sharing advanced research with a broad
public. Two core elements of this, further described in 4.2 and 4.3, are:

(1) Investment in public research dissemination and digital resources. The Open Courtauld
programme, established in 2017, seeks to raise the profile of art historical research and creative
practices, and to make research accessible and relevant to the general public through free
biannual research festivals. Events in London, partner institutions in Ulster and Dundee, and, since
the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, online, have attracted over 6k attendees and a further 20k
viewers through our YouTube channel. This has built on past digital resource development,
including the Gothic Ivories Project (submitted as an Impact Case Study in REF2014) and the Art
and Architecture online collection database, and is enhanced by the ongoing digitisation of the
Conway collection and its associated volunteer programme.

(2) National Partnership Programme. From 2016, The Courtauld National programme developed a
network of six principal partners across the country (see 4.2). Curators, faculty and the Public
Programmes department, alongside our National Partnerships Coordinator, have worked with
institutions and community groups to explore shared heritage between Courtaulds Ltd, the textile
manufacturing firm that enabled Samuel Courtauld to found The Courtauld Institute of Art. The
Courtauld National Partnership Programme has operated alongside the development of a touring
exhibition of Islamic metalwork in the UK and major international exhibitions led by Courtauld
curators with partners in Paris, Tokyo, and Nagoya. These major international loan exhibitions
were seen by more than 1m visitors.

Impact Case Studies submitted for REF3 reflect The Courtauld’s commitment to making research
accessible and enabling audiences to engage with, and contribute, to our research-based projects.
They include co-curated exhibitions, community history projects, and the use of digital platforms to
share research and provoke conversation and discussion. Public symposia, practice-based
learning activities, performances, curator talks and tours, and behind-the-scenes training also offer
ways for national and international audiences to engage with and benefit from our innovative
research. Impact Case Studies were selected by creating a long list of potential projects during
2015-16, which was reviewed annually by the Head of Research. Following identification of
strongest projects, the Research Department supported researchers with detailed guidance and
evidence gathering. The final REF3 submission reflects the unique opportunities presented by our
structure, in the close integration of our research activities with a world-renowned art collection and
the specialist facilities, knowledge, and training offered by our Gallery spaces and staff.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.4 Research and Impact Strategy, 2021-26

A major milestone post-REF2021 will come with the completion of the Courtauld Connects project
in autumn 2021. This will transform our research infrastructure and impact, with new ways of
displaying the Courtauld collection and much improved facilities for collection-focused research
and outreach. Our Conservation Department will return to studio spaces equipped with additional
state-of-the-art instrumentation, including those acquired with the support of an £960k AHRC
Capabilities for Collections grant (awarded 02/2021).

Over the next five years, The Courtauld will embark on a new chapter, involving significant
investment in enhancing research capacity and the renewal of curricula across all programmes.
The eight primary strategic goals of The Courtauld’s 2016-21 research strategy, articulated in 1.2,
will remain foundational during this process. These will be integrated into our established model for
developing sustained local, national, and international impact set out in 1.3. Both the Open
Courtauld and Courtauld National Partnership Programmes have become integral elements of
public outreach and institutional partnership activity, and each is designed to become a permanent
feature of The Courtauld beyond the initial impetus provided by Courtauld Connects.


 2. People

2.1 Staffing Strategy

The Courtauld’s strategy is to recruit and support researchers who have the potential to be, or
already are, established leaders in their fields. To sustain our institution and discipline, we have
appointed faculty at all career stages, endeavouring to create a research environment and working
practices that facilitate career progression. During the REF period we have recruited 9.6 FTE
permanent Category A researchers to renew and extend our research base, of whom two were
ECRs on appointment (Barker and Chadwick). 58% of faculty appointments in the period were to
permanent positions; 71% of appointees were female. Fixed-term appointments of 5.75 FTE (57%
female) were also made to support activity in Walls Conservation and in response to external grant
funding.

The Courtauld has recognised the curatorial contribution to research and impact of the Gallery’s
senior curators by amplifying their responsibility for research in new contracts (3.8 FTE). Gallery
activity is a critical element in our strategy for research impact and public engagement, given that a
significant strength of our research is through curating and research related to Courtauld art
collections. The number of postdoctoral fellows employed varies from year to year, as all rely on
external funding.

2.2 Policies to Support Research

The greatest investment that we make in research support is through our sabbatical system,
through which faculty are eligible for one term of research leave every three years, with eligibility
from the fourth year for newly appointed staff (entitlement is adjusted proportionally for part-time
faculty). We enable flexibility in research leave for new and established faculty in view of research
priorities and deadlines. Fixed-term Category A faculty who are employed for more than nine terms
are eligible to apply for sabbaticals. Teaching loads are calculated so that they are evenly allocated
between Category A staff, with reductions for those with significant administrative roles.

Faculty and curators receive £2k p.a., pro-rated for part-time researchers, to support their
research, which they can allocate to travel, books, images, and equipment as required. The
Courtauld takes a flexible approach to these personal research grants, allowing researchers to
carry forward 1/3 of their annual allocation and/or to draw early on a future budget if required.




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
All Category A staff are able to apply termly to the Research Committee’s Courtauld Research
Support Grants scheme, which has four priority areas: (1) kickstarter funding, to support the early
stages of a research project — particularly those that are large or complex, involve external
collaboration, and/or which will lead to an external grant application; (2) project completion, to
support the completion of a research output, typically one that has been accepted for publication;
(3) impact support, to support initiatives that will enhance the benefit of particular research strands
beyond academia; (4) innovation support, funding for vital initiatives that fall outside the bounds of
the other priority areas but have potential to advance The Courtauld’s core mission and strategic
objectives. £87.2k in Courtauld Research Support Grants was awarded by the Research
Committee during the REF2021 period.

Our Research Ethics policy applies to all researchers (including staff, students, and visiting
researchers). It is designed to complement the ethical standards or codes of practice issued by
relevant professional bodies which are specific to the discipline, such as those issued by the
Museums Association. Periodic review of the policy is the responsibility of the Research
Committee. The Research Committee also provides specific guidance and templates to the wider
staff and student body setting out best practice for researchers, with a particular focus in this REF
period on improved standards for conducting academic interviews and ensuring informed subject
consent in line with GDPR obligations. Researchers are reminded of their responsibilities to work
according to the Research Ethics policy and all related professional standards during the appraisal
process and individual meetings with the Head of Research and Research Manager.

Probation periods are defined for all research staff, adjusted to length of contract, and reviewed by
the relevant manager. All new faculty are assigned a mentor, and all research staff are appraised
annually by their Head of Department or, in the case of Professors, the Director or Dean; this
process includes a holistic review of research, teaching, administration, and training needs.
Additionally, the Head of Research and Research Manager meet with faculty annually to focus on
research achievements and plans, including planned applications to funding bodies.

Career progression is nurtured through the annual planning and appraisal processes, which
encourage faculty to take on leadership roles and/or apply for external research funding as
appropriate. Faculty are given the opportunity to apply for promotion annually; a timetable for this
process is set out on the staff intranet, with reminders issued regularly by Human Resources. The
Academic Promotions Committee, chaired by the Director, with two elected Courtauld Professors
and three external members of professorial standing, follows a rigorous process with research
performance as a key criterion for promotion for each career stage. Promotions during this period
included Stevenson, Eastmond, and Parkinson, to Professor; Babaie and Applin, to Reader; and
Arnold, Nethersole, Rebecchini, Nickson, Cross, and Schuldenfrei, to Senior Lecturer.

2.3 Equality and Diversity in Research Careers

The Courtauld’s institutional policies supporting equality and diversity apply to researchers at every
career stage. All staff are recruited following a rigorous process, informed by The Courtauld’s
Recruitment and Selection Policy, Equal Opportunities Policy, and in line with the provisions of the
2010 Equality Act. Interview panels for faculty posts are chaired by the Director, and include the
Dean, Head of Research, and members of faculty, as well as at least two external members;
panels are expected to represent the diversity of The Courtauld’s workforce appropriately, and
typically approach a 50:50 gender balance. Selection and interview processes for postgraduate
students are also bound by The Courtauld’s Equal Opportunities Policy.

Provision for training is managed by our Human Resources department; all managers in The
Courtauld with responsibility for recruitment received Unconscious Bias training in 2015. In 2016,
we retained the European Commission HR Excellence in Research Award. Faculty members
continue to accrue sabbatical entitlement during any period of parental leave.

70% of The Courtauld’s Category A staff are female; 30% are male. 8% have a declared disability.
89% of Category A staff identify as white; 11% of Category A staff identify as belonging to defined

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
minority ethnic groups or have not supplied this information. Equality Impact Assessments on
protected characteristics have been carried out in preparation for the REF submission. The
assessment carried out on The Courtauld’s provisional output pool concluded that there was no
evidence of negative impacts towards staff based on one or more protected characteristics. A
further assessment will be conducted on the final output pool.

The Courtauld’s broader approach to the REF2021 process has been in line with our institutional
commitment to equality and diversity and takes advantage of the small scale of our institution.
Selection of outputs has been carried out in close consultation with individual researchers and the
Head of Research, supported by internal peer review, with 100% of Category A staff being
submitted to the exercise. The Courtauld sets no formal expectations of researchers’ contributions
to the overall output pool and the number of outputs attributed to individual researchers will not be
used in performance management, appraisal or promotion processes. All staff involved in decision-
making and reviewing nominations for REF eligibility and output selection were obliged to receive
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion training.

2.4 Early Career Researchers

The Courtauld’s community of postdoctoral researchers, supported primarily by philanthropic
funding, fluctuates from year to year. 18 postdoctoral fellows were in post during the REF2021
period, including a Marie Skłodowska Curie postdoctoral fellow (Berger, 2017-2019), a British
Academy postdoctoral fellow (Warriner, 2018-24), eight Research Forum Postdoctoral Fellows,
three fellows funded by Courtauld Research Centres, three awards hosted by the Conservation
Department, and fellowships funded by the Marie Louise von Motesiczky Charitable Trust and the
Henry Moore Foundation.

Postdoctoral researchers are assigned faculty mentors, and are line managed by the Head of
Research, with support from the Research Manager and the Research Forum programme team in
staging research events. All ECRs, including those appointed to faculty posts, belong to at least
one Research Centre, Cluster or Group. These structures have enabled ECRs to host research
and public engagement events, many resulting in publications (e.g., Berger, ed., Conceptualism
and Materiality, 2019; Hartnell, ed., Continuous Page, 2020). The Courtauld’s Early Career
Research Network, launched in 2016, works to create a forum for collaboration between all faculty
and postdoctoral ECRs, in addition to PGR students. Discipline-specific training is supplemented
with external networking opportunities, including events such as ‘What Comes Next? Careers in Art
History’ with the Paul Mellon Centre for British Art and the Association for Art History (2020).

2.5 Support for PGRs

PGRs are a vital part of The Courtauld’s research community, benefitting from and contributing to
its vibrant and stimulating environment. We accepted 131 PGR students in the REF2021 period,
averaging around 19 admissions per year. Our PGR cohort is highly international: of the 147
doctorates awarded, 51% were to British citizens; 28% to EU nationals; 15% to North Americans;
and 6% to candidates from the rest of the world. Five Samuel H. Kress History of Art predoctoral
fellows joined The Courtauld from US universities (e.g., NYU, UCLA) for two-year terms.

PGRs are accepted to The Courtauld’s PhD programme following a rigorous selection process
involving a written proposal and an interview with two Courtauld faculty, who evaluate each
applicant’s record of achievement, potential, and the feasibility of the proposed research.
Interviewers make recommendations to the Research Degrees Committee, which is ultimately
responsible for admissions. All PGRs are assigned a supervisory team, including a supervisor and
advisor, who are together responsible for evaluating student progression through an annual
monitoring process. To guard against overload, our policy is that faculty can accept no more than
two research students each per year.

Financial support for PGRs comes from numerous sources. Now in its eighth year as an award-
granting body, the CHASE DTP has proven a vital element in our doctoral research training,

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
enabling an interdisciplinary context for Courtauld PGRs that is especially valuable given our
single-subject focus. 48 students graduating with a PhD in the REF2021 period have been
CHASE-funded, with a further 29 CHASE-funded students in the current cohort (over a third of our
PGRs). Many have had the opportunity to take part in placements and have benefitted from its
interdisciplinary training schemes and conference programme. Other sources of support for PGRs
include seven Collaborative Doctoral Awards with institutions including the British Museum,
National Gallery, and Tate, and a further four ongoing as of July 2020. The Robert H.N. Ho Family
Foundation Centre for Buddhist Art and Conservation supports two PGRs. Arscott’s ‘Scrambled
Messages’ supported one PGR studentship.

PGR training begins in their first year with a weekly seminar that offers advanced training in
methods and professional skills. They also take part in the biannual intercollegiate training
programme ReSkIN, a collaboration between visual arts units in University of London colleges,
which develops research skills, networks, and awareness of disciplines and periods adjacent to
their own. Access to specialist training (e.g., languages, palaeography) is provided where identified
by training needs assessments, initially in the first weeks of registration and then through periodic
review. The Royal Literary Fund Fellowship scheme also allows Courtauld PGRs access to two
professional writers who can offer help and support for academic writing skills. Third year PGRs
are supported in organising and presenting their research in a public symposium, developing
project management and presentation skills. All PGRs can take part in skills training offered
through CHASE (including The Courtauld’s Material Witness programme, which provides training
in the interpretation of material artefacts for humanities researchers), and the consortium has
funded seven Courtauld-led PGR projects. Our Painting Pairs programme enables art history and
conservation postgraduates to collaborate on practical conservation and contextual research on
works from public and private collections.

Students can apply for Research Forum funding to attend and organise conferences and
undertake fieldwork. Support for external grant applications is offered to PGRs by The Courtauld’s
Research Manager. Terra Foundation for American Art grants have supported two PGRs for
immersion semesters at US universities: University of California, Santa Barbara (Wilmott, 2019)
and Harvard University (Harrison, 2019). Between 2014-20, Courtauld PGRs were awarded
prestigious pre-doctoral fellowships including two Anne L. Poulet Curatorial Fellowships at The
Frick Collection (Capron, 2016-18; Noelle, 2017-19).

The journal of postgraduate research at The Courtauld, immediations, is published yearly and is
run by PGRs. The editorial team manages submissions and editing process, commissions original
cover art, and manage the design and publication process. Since 2016, in line with an institutional
drive towards Open Access, the journal has been published online as well as in print.

PGRs play a central role in The Courtauld’s research Centres, Clusters and Groups, supported by
the Research Forum. Through a wide range of activities including seminars, lectures, workshops,
conferences, site visits within the UK and overseas, and visiting experts, PGRs benefit from
contact with academics, curators, artists, and professionals from around the world. We offer
funding for PGRs to speak at international conferences including the College Art Association and
the Association of Art History through a competitive scheme. Supported by faculty and the
Research Forum, PGRs organised numerous annual and stand-alone conferences, as well as
annual symposia including Medieval and Modern and Contemporary postgraduate colloquia. In
Conservation, PGs organise the annual Gerry Hedley Conservation symposium on a rotating basis
with other PG conservation training programmes at Northumbria University and the Hamilton Kerr
Institute, Cambridge.

Preparation for a wide range of careers is encouraged for PGRs through our careers service,
which hosts training events and offers one-to-one support; additionally, PGRs are encouraged to
take advantage of The Courtauld’s Early Career Researcher Network. 6 CHASE-funded PGRs
took part in its placements scheme, each spending 3-6 months at institutions in the UK and US.
Recent PhD graduates have successfully embarked on a wide range of curatorial, academic, and
research careers in the UK and internationally.

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Research funding, major awards and funded projects, membership of consortia.

The Courtauld’s research enterprise is supported by multiple sources of revenue in addition to
underpinning QR funding. Annual grants of £965k from Research England’s Museums, Galleries
and Collections Fund support Gallery and Libraries' national research functions. As reported in
REF4b, we benefitted from over £9m in external research income during the period.

Endowments and philanthropic revenue secured by the Development and Research teams
supported faculty, curatorial and related professional support posts, research activities, overheads,
infrastructure, scholarships, and studentships at all levels. Philanthropic gifts of £2.2m in 2014
increased to £13m in 2020, with this support being integral to the £46m raised during the period for
the Courtauld Connects infrastructure project. Endowment gifts of US$5m from the J Paul Getty
Trust in 2019 and £700K from the Esmée Fairbairn Foundation in 2020 have further strengthened
scholarship funding.

The Courtauld's participates in consortia across disciplines, periods, and research activities. This
includes the International Association of Research Institutes in the History of Art (RIHA) and
Pharos (The International Consortium of Photo Archives); in 2021, we joined E-RIHS UK (the UK
branch of the European Research Infrastructure for Heritage Science). We have a longstanding
collaboration with the Warburg Institute, the main expression of which is the Journal of the
Warburg and Courtauld Institutes.

Underpinning Support from Foundations and Trusts
Support from foundations and trusts has nourished a wide range of research and impact activity.
The Research Forum is sustained by endowment revenue and, between 2015-2020, the Sackler
Trust supported programme and staff costs (£200k p.a.). Wall Painting Conservation research and
conservation activity was supported by a £625k grant from the Leon Levy Foundation, enabling
Courtauld faculty to establish the Centre for Conservation Studies at Nagaur, India, with a
subsequent GCRF grant awarded to further build on the Centre’s work. The Robert H.N. Ho Family
Foundation Centre for Buddhist Art and Conservation, established in 2012 with a £2.5m
endowment, supported the MA programme ‘Buddhist Art: History and Conservation’ during the
REF period in partnership with KCL and SOAS, offering 8 funded spaces p.a. We are now working
towards a new model for this Centre, through which we aim to secure two new faculty posts, one in
History of Art and the other in Conservation. The Centre for American Art and related activities
have been supported by £519k from the Terra Foundation during the REF2021 period.

Philanthropic support has enabled us to develop strength and depth in other fields of strategic
significance. The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation (US$750k, 2010-19) and The Polonsky
Foundation (£42k) enabled research and teaching initiatives in The Arts of Iran and Islam, led by
Babaie. These funds supported salary costs and an intensive programme of activity, including
Persian language instruction; travel for research and teaching; seminars and lectures; and online
events for a broad public. The Iran Heritage Foundation provided further support for public lectures
in this area. A further US$750k was awarded by The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation in 2019 to
support new faculty posts in Black art histories and critical race art history (PI: Bovey; posts
commencing 2021/22).

The research, digitisation, and conservation of Courtauld drawings was supported by £650k over
2013-2020 from the International Music and Art Foundation, and we were able to appoint a two-
year curatorial fellowship in the Prints and Drawings Department with the support of the Getty
Foundation (£104k, 2018; curator in post August 2020). Two early career curatorial assistants were
supported by The Bridget Riley Art Foundation (£184k, 2016-20).




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Major Research Projects
Courtauld researchers have undertaken sustained, collaborative multi-year projects over the
period, and attracted major funding from the AHRC, Leverhulme Trust, and the Getty Foundation,
with some projects receiving multiple rounds of funding. Eastmond’s ‘Connecting Art Histories in
the Medieval Caucasus: Christianities, Islams and their Intersections ’received Getty Foundation
funding of US$410k over two phases. ‘Scrambled Messages: The Telegraphic Imaginary 1857-
1900’ (2013-2018), received £522k (AHRC: PI, Arscott, with KCL and UCL). Arnold established the
‘Fashion Interpretations’ network for international academics and fashion practitioners with a £29k
AHRC award (2019). Cross and Richardson have worked alongside Royal Museums Greenwich
on a project in receipt of £66k in funding from the Getty Foundation’s 'Conserving Canvas’ initiative
(2019-21), which included support for salary costs of an early-career Conservation Fellow. A
project led by Kemp-Welch received funding from the Marie Louise von Motesiczky Charitable
Trust to support delivery of a new MA, a postdoctoral award, and an Open Access edited volume
(£105k, 2015-20). Technical research and conservation of Sandro Botticelli’s Trinity with Saints
altarpiece was funded by a Bank of America’s Art Conservation Programme grant (PI: Serres
US$156k, 2018). Key collaborative aspects of these projects are set out in 4.2.

Leverhulme Major Research Fellowships were awarded to Nash (2016-18, £92,520) for the project
'Making Lists: Inventories and Objects at the Courts of France’ and Scott (2020-23, £166,380) for
‘Open City: Paris and the arts in the eighteenth century’. Woodall was awarded a Leverhulme
Research Fellowship in 2020 (£54,986). A British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship was awarded to
Bovey (2014, £89,362) and BA/Leverhulme Small Research Grants were awarded to Burnstock
(2015, £9,740), Rebecchini (2016, £9,600), and Chadwick (2020, £9,738). Paul Mellon Centre
Senior Fellowships were awarded to Arscott (2014) and Stallabrass (2019), and a Mid-Career
Fellowship was awarded to Teo (2020). Other awards have included a Berenson Fellowship
(Nethersole, 2019), Gerda Henkel Foundation Scholarship (Schuldenfrei, 2020), and Getty
Foundation Conservation Guest Scholar Grant (Gottschaller, 2020), in addition to a British
Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship (Warriner, 2018, £178,500).

3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

The Courtauld has made significant infrastructural investment since REF2014. A major phase of
the capital project envisioned in 2014, subsequently branded Courtauld Connects, is now nearing
completion at our permanent home in Somerset House. This ambitious re-development is
transforming the Gallery, Conservation, learning, collection stores, study spaces, research, and
public-facing facilities. To enable completion of the Courtauld Connects project, the History of Art
and Conservation departments, the Library, Student and Academic Services, the Research
Department, and the Prints and Drawing study room and paper conservation studio moved in 2017
to high-quality temporary facilities at Vernon Square, King’s Cross. The Courtauld Gallery closed in
September 2018 and will reopen in autumn 2021.

Courtauld Connects involves the refurbishment of the historic galleries, including the Great Room,
new and reconfigured exhibition spaces, a refurbished Prints and Drawings Study Room, and new
research spaces including an Object Study Room and a technical examination facility. A new
Project Space will be used to present research from across The Courtauld. Refurbished
Conservation Studios will be equipped with state-of-the art instrumentation and laboratory facilities.
A new dedicated Learning Centre will enable public engagement with our collections and research
areas by people of all ages; this includes studio space for creative, practice-based activity. The
Gallery will reopen with an expanded programme of research-led loan-based temporary
exhibitions. These will include the dedicated programme of exhibitions in its Drawings Gallery.

During this period of change we maintained access to, and in many cases enhanced, our research
facilities:

(a) Libraries
The Courtauld’s Libraries, which include printed, photographic, and archival collections, are
internationally recognised as a major resource for the study of art history, attracting and supporting

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
scholars from around the globe. We have developed our physical collections of 200k volumes and
3.6m images alongside access to online resources and have an active digitisation programme. Our
special collections include archives, antiquarian and rare books and periodicals, photographic
negatives, prints and slides that chart the history of photography as well as well the documentation
of art and architecture, fragments of fabrics and trimmings illustrating the history of dress from the
fourth to the eighteenth centuries, and sale catalogues from 1722 to the present day.

Our photographic collections include the Witt Library (2.2m items), which documents paintings,
drawings and prints of 70k Western artists active since 1200. A rich source for social as well as art
history, The Conway Library consists of photographs and cuttings of world architecture and applied
arts. The research value of the collections is underlined by our Research England Museums,
Galleries and Collections Fund grant (£140k p.a. in addition to the £825k p.a. awarded to the
Courtauld Gallery) and our success in securing generous philanthropic support for their care.

Recognising the value for our researchers of the University of London’s investment in online
research resources, The Courtauld has significantly increased its financial support for Senate
House Library in recent years (reaching £141k in 2020), while maintaining expenditure to develop
our own collections. Specialists in their own fields, Library staff are also able to draw on their
professional experience of supporting research, including as members of the Society of College,
National and University Libraries Executive Board, Art UK Steering Panel, Pharos (the International
Consortium of Photo Archives), ARLIS (UK & Ireland Art Libraries Society), and editorial advisory
groups.

(b) Conservation Facilities
The Courtauld’s conservation facilities at Vernon Square include three fully equipped easel
painting conservation studios; a wall painting studio and lab; a microscopy lab; facilities for
technical examination and photography; a varnishing facility; a paper conservation studio; a
workshop; a specialist conservation library; and the Survey of Historic Wall Paintings in the British
Isles, an archive documenting surviving and recorded medieval wall paintings, with extensive
records of post-medieval wall paintings. The department archive holds conservation records and X-
radiographs of paintings as well as over 10k paint samples.

Key investments made between 2014-20 include portable instrumentation for the analysis of wall
paintings, incorporating analytical devices together with new and improved methods for
photographic documentation. Digital infrastructure included fundamental work developing and
populating the new data system Conservation Space, funded by The Andrew W. Mellon
Foundation and in collaboration with the National Gallery of Art in Washington, the Metropolitan
Museum of Art and the Danish Statens Museum for Kunst, among others. The next phase of this
project involves collaboration with the British Museum’s ResearchSpace, which will facilitate
sharing of technical and conservation related data and open up new possibilities for collaborative
research between institutions.

Building on the foundations established during REF2021, The Courtauld is extending instrumental
capabilities, with an AHRC Capability for Collections Fund grant (£960k; awarded 02/2021)
enabling the purchase of microscopy and imaging equipment for the molecular and elemental
analysis of paintings and microsamples. These instruments will contribute to the national research
base and contribute to the UK-wide E-RIHS infrastructure.

c) The Research Office
The Research Office (1.8 FTE) is responsible for REF preparation and pre- and post-award grant
administration, supports the Research Committee, and provides specialist image sourcing and
licensing services to Courtauld staff and students. The Research Manager leads this unit and
works closely with researchers at all career stages to facilitate high-quality applications for external
funding. The Courtauld’s Picture Researcher assists by sourcing images and gaining copyright
permissions. A further 0.6 FTE Research Officer secondment was established in 2020 to support
the REF2021 submission.


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
d) The Research Forum
The Research Forum, The Courtauld’s hub for internal and external research collaboration and
dissemination, has 4.0 FTE staff. The Research Forum Programme Manager is assisted by an
Events Producer, who coordinates the practical organisation and delivery of research activities; an
Open Courtauld Producer, responsible for research events benefitting a wide and diverse public;
and a Digital Producer, who supports a broad spectrum of activity including electronic publications;
online events; social media engagement (@courtauldres); the publication of recordings on The
Courtauld’s YouTube channel; and digital skills training.

e) Digital Infrastructure
As anticipated in REF2014, The Courtauld’s digital infrastructure has been central to our strategic
goals for REF2021, especially as we have worked to unlock our collections and facilitate the widest
possible access to advanced research. In this, we are supported by a Digital Media team (3.8 FTE
staff). The Courtauld procured and installed Pure as our Current Research Information System
(CRIS) in 2016. This serves to aid information management throughout the life cycle of our
researchers’ work and acts as a publicly accessible repository.

As noted above, the Gallery’s collection of some 34k works has been digitised, supported in part
by funding from the International Music and Art Foundation. A new Digital Asset Management
System (DAMS) for the Gallery will launch in late 2021; preparation for this has necessitated
editing and cataloguing 61k images. Bloomberg Philanthropies made a grant of £600k in 2020,
much of which is to develop a robust website, launch the Gallery DAMS, and attract new
audiences to The Courtauld online by late autumn 2021.

Ongoing digitisation work for the 3.6m photographs in the Witt and Conway picture library,
supported respectively by a bequest and the National Lottery Heritage Fund, will result in the
digitised Conway being freely accessible online by early 2022 and the Witt by 2023. This will
complement other open digital research assets, including the Gothic Ivories Project, the Art and
Architecture online collection database, and the Crossing Frontiers monuments website.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Courtauld researchers contribute energetically to the art historical ecosystem in the academy, the
cultural sector, and for public benefit nationally and internationally through service to collective
enterprises. They are supported by the institution in doing so through mechanisms including
annual personal research budgets, Courtauld Research Support Grants, the Research Forum, and
the Research Office. The academic promotions system recognises these endeavours at every
stage of career progression.

4.1 Publications
The publication of research is fundamental to the contribution made by The Courtauld to the
research base. During REF2021, Category A staff published over 60 books and exhibition
catalogues as lead author or editor, including 14 sole-authored monographs, as well as over 220
book chapters and 100 journal articles. 7 volumes of the Open Access, peer-reviewed, series
Courtauld Books Online appeared during the REF period.

The high quality of The Courtauld faculty’s publications and body of research has been
demonstrated through the award of prizes and wider recognition within the academy. Applin’s
proposal for Lee Lozano: Not Working was awarded the US$50k Suzanne and James Mellor Prize
by the National Museum of Women in the Arts, Washington D.C. (2015). Cather† (retired 2019)
was awarded The People’s Republic of China Friendship Award (China’s highest award for foreign
experts who have made outstanding contributions to China’s economic and social progress) in
2014 and the Plowden Medal for significant contribution to the advancement of the conservation
profession in 2017. Scott was elected a Fellow of the British Academy in 2019.




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.2 Collaboration

The Courtauld made a significant strategic investment in collaborative research and public
engagement locally, nationally, and internationally during REF2021. This activity is managed by
specialist staff including the Research Manager, the National Partnerships Programme
Coordinator, the Volunteer Coordinator and the Public Programmes and Development
departments, alongside curatorial and academic activity.

The creation of national and international scholarly networks has been central to the work of
Courtauld faculty, notably in the major research projects led by Arscott (‘Scrambled Messages’)
and Eastmond (‘Connecting Art Histories’). Scrambled Messages developed collaborations with
specialists in English literature and Archaeology (KCL) and Engineering (UCL). In addition to
numerous publications and public events, the project resulted in the full digitisation of the
Wheatstone collection (KCL), development of new curriculum material for schools, and an
exhibition at the Guildhall Art Gallery. Research field expeditions led by Eastmond for Connecting
Art Histories involved early career and senior researchers from Armenia, France, Georgia, Iran,
Turkey, Turkmenistan, the UK and the US. The project’s final output, the Crossing Frontiers
database, makes high resolution images of important monuments from eastern Anatolia and the
medieval Caucasus available to the public for the first time. The impact of Courtauld-led networks
is also demonstrated through the Fashion Interpretations network of academics and practitioners
established by Arnold, which forms a key element of an Impact Case Study submitted in REF3.

Curatorial activity has been a critical focus for collaborative research and impact over 2013-20.
Exhibition projects led by Courtauld curators are also subjects of REF3 Impact Case Studies -
Gerstein’s Rodin and Dance: The Essence of Movement (2016/17) and Serres and Wright’s
Courtauld Collection: Samuel Courtauld and Impressionism (2019/20), with related exhibitions in
London (National Gallery), Paris, Tokyo, and Nagoya. The Illuminating Objects programme, led by
Gerstein, enabled 10 PGs from disciplines outside of art history to curate a display in the Courtauld
Gallery or the Science Museum focused on a Courtauld collection object; participants from Kent,
SOAS, Imperial College, Central Saint Martins and the Royal College of Art received specialist
training from academic, curatorial, digital and exhibitions colleagues. Courtauld faculty have
curated exhibitions in Italy (Mantua, Rebecchini, 2019-20), USA (Los Angeles, Gottschaller, 2017),
China (Guangzhou, Wilson, 2015), and Turkey (Istanbul, Eastmond, 2016), and REF3 describes
Caiger-Smith’s show of British sculptor Antony Gormley at the Royal Academy (2019).

Our Courtauld National programme created a framework for sustainable collaboration with seven
regional museums across the UK (Braintree Museum, Ferens Art Gallery, Greenfield Valley
Heritage Park, Harris Museum, Art Gallery & Library, Herbert Museum and Art Gallery, Ulster
Museum/NMNI, and Wolverhampton Art Gallery). This enabled research generated by the
curatorial team to reach over 222k visitors by July 2020 through co-curated exhibitions, oral history
projects, and other public programmes. Training and workshop days for these projects have
involved 142 staff members from partner museums and 273 students have been reached through
schools workshops. An additional UK touring exhibition (Royal Cornwall Museum, Truro; Cartwright
Hall Art Gallery, Bradford) containing Islamic metalwork from the Courtauld collection also began in
2019, with objects including a rare fourteenth century metal bag from Mosul. The relationships
formed through Courtauld National will continue to grow through the next REF cycle and will
provide an additional avenue for significant research impact.

The Courtauld has a wide network of international collaboration in conservation and conservation
science. In partnership with Royal Museums Greenwich, Cross and Richardson’s ‘Conserving
Canvas’ project has led the training of mid-career conservators from Tate, English Heritage and
the National Trust in assessment and treatments of canvas paintings and analysis of past
treatment methods. Supported by €19,701 (AHRC/ERC), Burnstock led a work package as part of
the international Cleaning Modern Oil Paints (CMOP) project, a collaboration between 10
institutions in the US, UK and Europe that sought to address the distinctive challenges in
conserving 20th- and 21st-century oil paintings (2015-18). A further significant focus for
international collaboration has been the conservation of wall paintings, which entailed practice-led

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research and in-situ training benefitting early career conservators from India, Nepal, Bhutan,
Georgia, USA and the Netherlands working on the conservation of wall paintings in Bhutan and
India, in collaboration with the Mehrangarh Museum Trust and supported by the Leon Levy
Foundation and GCRF funds, with Courtauld faculty including Tringham, Park, Cather, and Verri
co-ordinating and contributing. The project involved 52 international participants from 2014-2019,
six of whom then went on to study on either the MA Conservation of Wall Painting or MA Buddhist
Art and Conservation programmes at The Courtauld.

4.3 Academic Events
Through the Research Forum The Courtauld facilitates an extensive programme of seminars,
workshops, conferences, debates, book launches, training sessions and public lectures. During the
REF2021 period, we staged approximately 1,000 research events (typically an average of five per
week during term time, or around 150 events each year), in addition to the public engagement
activity staged through the Research Forum’s Open Courtauld programme and our Public
Programmes department.

Highlights of our academic programming each year are two Distinguished Lecture series: The
Frank Davis Memorial Lectures and The Courtauld Spring Series, which enable us to invite 10
speakers each year from around the world to address topical themes identified by Courtauld
researchers. A Visiting Expert programme enabled us to invite academics, curators and artists to
The Courtauld for week-long programmes involving a public lecture, an internal research seminar,
and a gallery visit. During the REF2021 period, our 14 Visiting Experts have included art historians,
curators, conservators and artists from Europe, Australia, the US and the UK (Jananne Al-Ani,
Daniel Barber, Lina Bolzoni, Elisabeth Fraser, Melanie Gifford, Michael Ann Holly, Stephan
Kemperdick, Michelle Maricola, Keith Moxey, Alexander Nagel, Mary Roberts, Susan Schwalb, and
Elizabeth Sears). Regular seminars are run by Research Centres, Clusters and Groups, who invite
an average of 3-5 speakers per term. PGR students organise annual conferences featuring ECR
speakers responding to open calls (usually three each year), in addition to an Annual Third Year
Symposium for Courtauld PGRs. Audiences for Research Forum academic events during
REF2021 have averaged c.10k people p.a. for in-person events and c.20k people p.a. for live
online events. With our online archive of events, these numbers are increased further (in 2019/20
alone, research events were viewed over 250k times online).

Our flagship Open Courtauld programme is RES|FEST, a free, public festival celebrating art
historical research and featuring Courtauld faculty and students alongside external researchers
and visual and performing artists. Since 2017, we have held 3 RES|FESTs at The Courtauld, and 2
with partners (RES|FEST Belfast at the Ulster Museum, 2018; RES|FEST Dundee at the V&A
Dundee, 2019). c.6k people have attended RES|FESTs to date, with thousands more engaging
with content online. Other Open Courtauld initiatives have included The Big Draw 2019, which
enabled us to welcome 248 people to our Prints and Drawings Room, the Paper Conservation
Studio, and to take part in creative activities inspired by The Courtauld’s collection. When Covid-19
made live events impossible, we devised Open Courtauld Hour, a weekly hour-long online
programme focusing on topical themes with contributions from Courtauld researchers. Between
April-July 2020, the Open Courtauld Producer delivered seven live research-centred programmes
which attracted 3.1k attendees live, and 20k further viewers through our YouTube channel.

4.4 Keynotes and Major Lectures
During the REF2021 period, Courtauld faculty have been invited to deliver over 30 prestigious
keynote lectures across the UK, Europe and the US. This has included keynotes for the British
Association for Victorian Studies (Arscott, 2015), the fifth Annual Ards Colloquium in Utrecht
(Barker, 2018), the Leeds International Medieval Congress (Bovey, 2018); the fourth international
Sevgi Gönül Byzantine Symposium, Istanbul (Eastmond, 2016), and the SAVAnT (Scholars of
American Visual Art and Text) Symposium, Eccles Centre, British Library (Peters Corbett, 2015), in
addition to conference keynotes at CUNY (Kemp-Welch, 2017), the University of Pennsylvania
(Nash, 2018), the Museum of London (Arnold, 2015) and the Maison Française, Oxford
(Parkinson, 2016).


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In addition to numerous research papers, faculty delivered over 61 'event' lectures and papers.
Host venues for 13 lectures at US universities and institutions included the Frick Museum of Art
(Nash, 2018), MoMA (Schuldenfrei, 2019), Harvard University (Eastmond, 2016, Schuldenfrei,
2019), and the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum (Nethersole, 2019); other presentations at
international venues included a lecture series at the Jnanapravaha Institute, Mumbai, India
(Babaie, 2020), a paper at Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi (Bovey, 2016), and a lecture at
the TÜYAP art fair, Istanbul (Stallabrass, 2017).

4.5 Editorial and Peer Review

Courtauld researchers serve as editors, reviews editors, and board members for numerous peer-
reviewed scholarly journals including: including: Art East Central; Art History; ARTMargins, Boletín
del Seminario de Estudios de Arte y Arqueología; Codex Aquilarensis: Cuadernos de investigación
del Monasterio de Santa María la Real; Colnaghi Studies Journal; Critique d’Art; Gesta; Cultural
Heritage Science; Hispanic Research Journal; Fashion Theory: The Journal of Dress, Body &
Culture; Journal of Architectural History; Journal of the British Archaeological Association; Journal
of the Warburg and Courtauld Institutes; Journal of the Society of Architectural Historians; Journal
of the Research Institutes in the History of Art (RIHA); New Left Review; Oxford Art Journal;
Renaissance Studies; Sculpture Journal; Studies in Conservation; Tate Papers; West 86th: A
Journal of Design History, Decorative Arts, and Material Culture.

Over 2013-20, members of Courtauld faculty established and edited book series including Fashion:
Visual & Material Interconnections (Bloomsbury/Courtauld); Studies in Medieval and Renaissance
Sculpture book series (Brepols); Distinguished Contributions to the Study of the Arts in the
Burgundian Netherlands (Brepols/Harvey Miller). They also reviewed numerous book manuscripts
for publishers including Ashgate, Blackwells, Bloomsbury, Boydell and Brewer, Brill, British
Museum, Cambridge UP, Edinburgh UP, Leuven UP, Manchester UP, McGill UP, MIT Press,
Oxford UP, Penn State UP, Princeton UP, Routledge, Royal Ontario Museum Publications,
Springer, UCL Press, UCLA Asia Institute, Verso and Yale UP.

Participation in grant awarding committees on behalf of numerous external bodies (including the
Paul Mellon Centre for British Art, the Warburg Institute, the Association for Art History, CHASE,
and Woodmansterne Conservation Awards) has been accompanied by active participation as blind
peer-reviewers for fellowships, funding, and prize-giving bodies. This has included the AHRC;
Cambridge University; the European Research Council; Georgian National Science Foundation;
the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton University; the Polish Academy of Arts and Science;
the Portuguese Academy of Science; the Royal Society of Chemistry; the Swiss National Science
Foundation; the Terra Foundation; the Getty Foundation; the Social Sciences Research Council of
Canada; and the Wolfson Foundation.

4.6 Service to the Field
Faculty have been external examiners at universities throughout the UK including Trinity College
Dublin, and the Universities of Cambridge, Kent, St Andrew’s and York; they also serve as external
examiners for PhD theses for UK universities and around the world (e.g., Australia, Canada, the EU,
USA).

Courtauld researchers contribute expertise as trustees and board members of institutions including
the Acceptance-in-Lieu Panel, administered by Arts Council England; two Cathedral Fabric
Advisory Committees (Canterbury and St Paul’s); the Association of Art History; the British
Archaeological Association; Historians of British Art, Affiliate of the College Art Association, USA;
the London Art Academy; Cambridge University Museums Legacies of Empire & Enslavement
Advisory Board; the Contemporary Art Committee, Iran Heritage Foundation; International
Association of Art Critics (British branch); and the Bilderfahrzeuge project. CHARISMA/MOLAB
transitional Access for European scientific projects. Babaie is a specialist adviser to REF2021 Sub-
panel 32.




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Courtauld is dedicated to the vitality of art history in the UK and around the world. Recognising
the pressures and opportunities afforded by our status as an independent small, specialist
institution and the fiscal challenges in the coming years, we have invested in infrastructure,
research, and public engagement capabilities, and will continue to build our endowment
proactively. As we grow our research community and associated resources, we remain committed
to our research strengths in established areas and to deepening our expertise across periods, geo-
political territories, and in methodologies that have been under-represented in the History of Art.




                                                                                            Page 16
