Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Warwick

 Unit of Assessment: C17 Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context

 The unit comprises Warwick Business School (WBS) and closely linked Institute for Employment
 Research (IER). Our strategy is informed by University of Warwick’s pursuit of Excellence with
 Purpose, and its institutional research mission to be internationally leading, impactful and
 provocative (see REF5a-1.0;1.2;2.1). The University engages in transformative and
 interdisciplinary research to address present and future global challenges, thus supporting
 positive change in the world. Our research strategy is inclusive and drives diversity as a cross-
 cutting strand across all our research endeavours. Within the wider University, our research: (1)
 aligns with our disciplinary excellence, to generate cutting-edge knowledge, applied by other
 disciplines; (2) supports the development of economic and social infrastructure for other
 disciplines’ research; (3) enacts a translational role for implementation and amplification of other
 disciplines’ research evidence.

 We have drawn on the strategy and research aims (outlined in our REF-2014 return) to:
    Pursue transformative solutions to global challenges faced by communities through
       disciplinary and interdisciplinary research, locally, nationally and internationally.
    Enhance methodological rigour and integrity of our research to generate world-class
       research outputs.
    Develop impactful partnerships with user organisations and policy agencies to translate
       our research into policy and practice.
    Nurture talent and communities of world-class scholars, within an inclusive research
       culture, producing both the highest-quality academic research and disseminating findings
       for the greatest economic and social benefit.
    Infuse the School with an international outlook and reputation.
    Enact our research aims in a way that is sustainable in the longer-term.

 1.2. Strategy

 Our research strategy has been refreshed since 2014. Within each Subject Group, all faculty
 have participated in generation of local strategic plans. Heads of (Subject) Groups are included
 in the School’s main decision-making body, Senior Management Group, enabling them to
 develop and enact our research strategy, ensuring standards for research output, impact and
 talent-nurturing are owned by all faculty at all career stages. The starting point for our strategy
 are the School’s lived values of Curiosity, Openness, Restlessness and Excellence (CORE),
 developed with faculty and professional-services staff, and discussed in School-wide ‘Town Hall’
 meetings. The Executive Leadership Team steered the process and provided critical scrutiny of
 strategy as its development gathered pace.

 Our strategy pursues research of the very highest quality globally, with critical mass in all subject
 areas aligned with our character as a ‘full service’ business school. We have embedded an
 extensive professional-services infrastructure to deliver research quality. We exhibit a practical,
 hands-on approach to our research, determined to move outside any ‘ivory tower’ perceptions of

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our School. We pride ourselves on willingness to engage openly outside our School: we
 describe this as exhibiting ‘lower walls’ in relation to academic, practice, policy and societal
 boundaries (see Currie et al., 2017;DOI:10.5465/amle.2015.0279). We exhibit curiosity about
 societal challenges, which drives us to collaborate interdisciplinarily with other University
 departments, across STEM, Arts and Humanities, and other social sciences. Our research drove
 the successful bid for Coventry City of Culture and its programming, as well as early-intervention
 services for first-episode psychosis in India. We also lead a collaboration with the University’s
 world-class Maths and Computer Science Departments with the Alan Turing Institute, focused
 upon Data Science for the Social Good; the University’s interdisciplinary Global Research
 Priorities (GRPs) in ‘Behaviour, Brain and Society’; ‘Energy’; and ‘Productivity and the Futures of
 Work’.

 Drawing on the University’s motto, ‘Mind moves matter’, we have transformed our research
 impact on practice, policy and society through our refreshed research strategy, focused on our
 areas of impact strength: healthcare; enterprise, productivity and work; behavioural science.
 Through our strategy, we aim to enhance competitiveness of the UK economy and private-sector
 organisations, whilst adopting a wider social mission to support government policy and public
 agencies to improve service delivery, so addressing inequalities within society.

 Our dynamism leads us to sustain excellence in all our research. Our research standards are
 global, and our publications benchmark well against the leading business and management
 institutions in North America, Europe and Asia. Reflecting our global reputation, our research is
 increasingly internationalised in its intellectual impact, exemplified by improved performance in
 the Dallas global research ranking (which considers publication in 24 ‘leading’ periodicals in
 major business disciplines) from 85th during REF-2014 to 62nd now. We have a consistently high
 position in the QS World University Rankings by subject: our business and management four-
 year average ranking is 23, and finance and accounting 37. The current Times Higher Education
 World University Rankings position us number 22 in business and economics.

 Central to our research strategy is transforming talent in an inclusive way sensitive to gender,
 ethnicity, age and disability. We recruit early-career researchers (ECRs), and nurture their
 development. Supported by a structured mentoring programme, with our Distinguished
 Research Environment Professors (DREPs) playing a key role, our ECRs recruited since 2014
 have progressed rapidly through probation, with some ready for a personal Chair. Our ECRs
 publish in the world’s leading journals, such as Academy of Management Journal (Dittrich,
 Sasaki, Li Pira), Administrative Science Quarterly (Wiedner), Management Science (Alempaki,
 Mullett), Journal of Financial Economics and Review of Financial Studies (both Venter). They
 draw down large-scale research income, for example from UKRI’s Future Leaders Fellowship
 programme (Aristidou, Dittrich). They simultaneously impact policy and practice, in
 international and societally important ways, e.g. microfinance and business-skills training for
 women in India (Barboni).

 Yet we remain restless, currently investing further in our PhD programme, to position it as a
 globally leading programme. We have recently obtained a multi-million-pound endowment for the
 Gillmore Centre in Financial Technology, which will enhance our finance and data-science
 expertise, spread across our Subject Groups, including Finance, Information Systems and
 Management, and Operations. Our research-based education strategy informs executive-
 education offerings, e.g. immersive three-day Behavioural Science in Practice, with the
 government’s Behavioural Insights Team. Being part of faculty and professional-services teams
 at the School means never standing still: our research strategy requires willingness to take

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ownership of societal challenges, to challenge orthodoxy and convention, and to embrace
    change, creating space for innovative and entrepreneurial interventions deriving from our
    research.

    Pursuing our research strategy, we enact a virtuous relationship between inputs (investment in
    faculty, and physical and data infrastructure, large-scale external grant funding) and outputs of
    high-quality scholarly publications, development of faculty, impact on policy and practice, and
    public engagement with our research. The Chartered Association of Business Schools (CABS)
    annual survey of grant income, drawing on HESA data, shows our pre-eminent position as the
    leading school in business and management. From 2012/13 to 2017/18, we received over
    £27.3m, with £4.4m in 2017/18.1 Our strategy encourages faculty to pursue grant income not
    merely to satisfy a metric, but to support large-scale interdisciplinary research interventions
    necessary to impact grand challenges of society. Our funded research programmes almost
    always include academic researchers from outside the School, and commonly policy and
    practice partners who coproduce the research from initiation. The input–output virtuous
    relationship is supported by School structures and practices, which encourage disciplinary
    excellence within our Subject Groups, and interdisciplinarity and impact through School
    Research Centres, Networks and Communities of Impact (CoI) – and University-level GRPs,
    Research Centres and Research Institutes. Further, professional-services staff, within our
    dedicated Research Office (RO) and University Research and Impact Services (R&IS), work
    closely with faculty to ensure this virtuous relationship. Alongside this, we contribute more widely
    to supporting growth and excellence in the wider business and management academy, within
    the UK and internationally, with reciprocal benefit for our faculty. We have engaged in numerous
    cross-University partnerships in large-scale funded research programmes; e.g. Loomes (with
    Chater, Isoni, Read, Stewart) leads our participation in the ESRC-funded Network for
    Integrated Behavioural Science, encompassing Warwick’s Psychology Department, and
    Universities of Nottingham and East Anglia.

    Contributing to our high global standing, our research is of international significance and reach.
    Firstly, deriving from our aim to further enhance our diverse faculty profile, ECRs increasingly
    come from some of the best North American, European and Asian business schools. We bring in
    authoritative and diverse academics from the leading business schools as DREPs to develop
    our ECRs. Secondly, our publications profile has changed following encouragement for faculty to
    privilege quality over quantity in journal submissions, as we aspire to shape intellectual debate
    globally. Our faculty publish in high-quality peer-reviewed journals, including those outside
    business and management, in other social sciences (e.g. American Economic Review and
    Psychological Science), science (e.g. the Nature series and Science) and medical journals (e.g.
    British Medical Journal). Thirdly, we collaborate with appropriate international partners and with
    established University partnerships, such as the Monash–Warwick Alliance and EUTOPIA
    (European Alliance) (see REF5a-2.12.2). Finally, we support individual or collective efforts
    towards internationalisation of our research, encouraging faculty to develop partnerships in
    Europe, other high-income countries (e.g. Australia, USA), and low-middle-income countries
    (e.g. India, Kenya, Sri Lanka). For this, we have drawn down large-scale research funding to
    address global challenges, particularly in healthcare. Female faculty are particularly prominent in
    leading our international efforts to address grand challenges in low-medium-income countries
    (Barboni, Fernando).

1
 See ‘Research Income for Business and Management: Analysis of HESA Data 2012/13-2017/18’
at   https://charteredabs.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/75287-CABS-Research-Income-Report-
2019-1.pdf
                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3. School Structure and Practices

 The School operates a decentralised structure enabling Subject Groups to develop their own
 research strategies within our strategy framework, supported by an exchange with the Executive
 Team, e.g. on faculty recruitment (see 2.1.2). To ensure synergy across WBS and IER, senior
 IER faculty participate in our Research, Engagement and Impact Committee (REIC) and its
 Impact Sub-Committee. Locating a critical mass of faculty within nine Subject Groups –
 Accounting; Behavioural Science; Entrepreneurship and Innovation; Finance; Information
 Systems Management; Marketing; Operations; Organisation and Human Resource
 Management; and Strategy and International Business – promotes research of the highest
 scholarly quality. IER’s interdisciplinary research strength, especially in work and employment,
 coalesces with WBS, e.g. through joint provision with WBS’s Industrial Relations Research Unit
 (IRRU) of the EU’s UK Observatory for labour markets.

 Organising around Subject Groups supports disciplinary excellence. Our Behavioural Science
 Subject Group generates world-leading pure research in the very best peer-reviewed science
 journals that is drawn on by other disciplines outside business and management (facilitated by
 the School’s leadership of the University’s GRP ‘Behaviour, Brain and Society’; see 1.4, Read).
 Faculty’s intellectual curiosity, openness and restlessness, propelling them towards excellence,
 is evident in our production of the highest-quality scholarly research. In the REF-2021 period,
 faculty have published over 1,853 articles in peer-reviewed journals, 44 books and special
 issues of journals, and 196 chapters in edited books or collections. Current faculty have an
 average Scopus h-index of 12.7 and Google scholar h-index (denoted g-index, following) of
 19.8. Notably, Chater has an h-index of 56 and g-index of 86, Newell 47 and 72. As noted
 above, our ECRs publish in the highest-quality journals. For more detail on how we support
 ECRs and PhD students, see 2.1.6;2.2.

 Heads of (Subject) Groups (HoGs) meet regularly through the HoG Forum, chaired by the Pro-
 Dean (Faculty). The HoG Forum provides a platform for sharing experiences and learning about
 design and implementation of group-level practices for research, which aim for an inclusive
 research culture at the local-level and sustaining best practice systematically across the School
 (see 2.1). Each Subject Group has a Research Environment Lead (REL) who sits on our REIC.
 A Doctoral Programme Representative from each Subject Group sits on the Doctoral
 Programme Committee (DPC). Two ECRs sit on both REIC and DPC to ensure all levels are
 represented in School governance structures. Within each Subject Group, a senior faculty
 member is given workload allocation to act as REL, working with Doctoral Programme
 Representatives and the HoG, ensuring an inclusive, sustainable and vibrant research culture is
 enacted locally. All faculty have an annual personal development review, usually carried out by
 their HoG. Faculty below Professorial-level have a dedicated mentor within their Subject Group
 (see 2.1.4;2.1.5). We further harness scholarly excellence and policy/practice impact through our
 Research Centres and Networks (see 1.5); and further enhance transformative research and
 impact with reach and economic/social significance through ten University GRPs, three of which
 we lead (see 1.4).

 The School also shapes the University’s research and impact strategy. Senior faculty are
 members of University-wide governing bodies (see REF5a-2.4). Our Pro-Dean (Faculty)
 (Llewellyn) participates in the Professorial Promotions Group and Staffing Committee; our Pro-
 Dean (Research, Engagement and Impact) is represented on the University Research
 Committee (Gopal); our Impact Lead (Currie) is a member of the Knowledge Exchange
 Framework (KEF) Committee, and the Faculty’s Impact Committee; Neelands is Academic

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Director of Cultural Partnerships; and Driffield is Deputy Pro-Vice-Chancellor (PVC) (Regional
 Engagement). The School’s Dean (Lockett) reports directly to the University Provost and is an
 elected member of University Senate and University Council.

 1.4. Supporting Interdisciplinary Research

 First, aligned with our research strategy, we stimulate interdisciplinary collaboration across
 Subject Groups that focus on similar empirical or theoretical topics. Second, we encourage
 faculty to extend their interdisciplinary research collaborations beyond the School.

 We support joint appointments across Subject Groups (e.g. Kiefer, Allen in Entrepreneurship
 and Innovation, and Organisation and Human Resource Management; Eubanks in
 Entrepreneurship and Innovation, and Behavioural Science) and fund well-attended joint
 seminars and School-wide journal-publication workshops by editors of leading journals (e.g.
 Michael Pratt of Boston College – Administrative Science Quarterly; Tima Bansal of Ivey
 Business School – Academy of Management Journal). This provides the springboard from which
 faculty from different Subject Groups exhibit and share research interests. These events – e.g.
 the Decision-making Research at Warwick seminars, convened by our Behavioural Sciences
 Subject Group – also attract faculty from across the University, including Economics, Psychology
 and STEM disciplines. Our well-established Summer Schools – such as the Behavioural Science
 Summer School, running for eight years and focusing on societal challenges, e.g. climate
 change and behaviour (2019) – also bring together faculty from different Subject Groups and
 departments. The results of our encouraging interdisciplinary research collaboration are evident
 in numerous joint PhD supervisions (supported by generous funding from the School). Faculty
 within Behavioural Science co-supervise with Marketing, focused on consumer behaviour
 (Habel, Jia, Wei), and with Finance, on behavioural economics (Antoniou, Kumar, Read).
 Successful joint research-funding bids across Subject Groups focus on behavioural science in
 the School, for example Read (Behavioural Science) was co-investigator on a grant led by
 Elmes for the School (Strategy and International Business) and the Engineering Department,
 exploring end-use energy demand (EPSRC, £590k, 2013–18). Consistent with our aim for a
 virtuous relationship between research inputs and outputs, numerous joint publications across
 Subject Groups now focus on behavioural science. Exemplifying this, the end-use energy-
 demand grant resulted in several co-authored papers between Read and Elmes in Journal of
 Experimental Psychology (2020), Journal of Environmental Psychology (2019) and Renewable
 and Sustainable Energy Reviews (2019).

 We support interdisciplinarity through Research Centres/Institutes and Research Networks.
 Aligned with our research strategy, the former generate large-scale research funding through
 interdisciplinary research that emphasises policy and practice impact (see 1.5). Our five
 Research Centres are: Innovation, Knowledge and Organisational Networks (IKON); ESRC
 Enterprise Research Centre (ERC); National Institute for Health Research Applied Research
 Collaboration West Midlands (NIHR ARC WM); Gillmore Centre for Financial Technology; and
 Institute for Employment Research (IER). Our four Research Networks are: Applied and
 Organisational Psychology Network; Macroeconomic and Forecasting Research Network;
 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Network; and Global Energy Network. For example, NIHR
 ARC WM (co-funded by NIHR for c.£9m over five-years, of which we were allocated around
 20%) crosses Operations (Burgess, Radaelli), Entrepreneurship and Innovation (Currie,
 Oborn, Spyridonidis), Organisation and Human Resource Management (Croft, McGivern,
 Swan), and Behavioural Science (Vlaev) Subject Groups, and collaborates with medical schools
 at Universities of Keele and Birmingham, together with Warwick Medical School (WMS).

                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Meanwhile, the ERC encompasses faculty from Entrepreneurship and Innovation (Fraser, Mole,
 Roper), and Strategy and International Business (Driffield). IER is avowedly interdisciplinary in
 its orientation, linking faculty from Entrepreneurship and Innovation (Currie, Roper), Strategy
 and International Business (Battisti, Driffield), and Organisation and Human Resource
 Management (Dean, Galetto, Fernando, Hoque), with its own dedicated research staff to
 engender deep relationships with other University departments, e.g. Sociology and Warwick
 Manufacturing Group (WMG).

 Our Research Networks also impact policy and practice through interdisciplinary research. For
 example, the Macroeconomic and Forecasting Research Network coproduces research with
 National Institute of Economic and Social Research (NIESR) in the Office for National Statistics
 (ONS), in collaboration with other University departments, particularly Economics (Battisti,
 Mitchell). Linked into the University GRP ‘Energy’ that the School leads, the Global Energy
 Research Network brings together faculty from Strategy and International Business (Battisti,
 Bradshaw, Dahlmann, Elmes), Finance (Mitchell) and Behavioural Science (Read), working
 closely with other University departments. For example, Bradshaw led a successful bid to the
 Natural Environment Research Council with Politics and International Studies (£301k, 2018–22)
 to examine geopolitical implications of energy-system transformation, and co-authored a
 publication with mining-engineering and public-policy academics in Nature (2019).

 Research Networks are supported by internal funding on a rolling three-year basis, with an aim
 to develop them further. For example, the Artificial Intelligence Innovation Research Network has
 represented the foundation for the larger-scale, externally funded Gillmore Centre for Financial
 Technology, encompassing faculty from our Operations and Information Systems and
 Management Subject Groups. The flexibility of our Research Networks enables our research
 infrastructure to respond interdisciplinarily to research opportunities.

 We work with the wider University through its GRPs (see REF5a-2.9.1). Three of the ten
 University GRPs are led (or co-led) by the School (Read – ‘Behaviour, Brain and Society’;
 Bradshaw – ‘Energy’; Battisti – ‘Productivity and the Futures of Work’). Our faculty also
 participate in other cross-University research centres – e.g. Centre for Mental Health and
 Wellbeing Research (Croft, Currie, Oborn), Centre for Operational Police Research (Johnson,
 Ritchie, Stewart), Institute for Science of the Cities (Moat, Preis), and Connecting Research on
 Employment and Work (Dean, Galetto, Hoque, Kispeter, Krausert) – and we lead the cross-
 University research initiative focused on Coventry City of Culture 2021 (Beer, Currie, Micheli,
 Neelands, Roper), exhibiting our interdisciplinary engagement with Arts and Humanities to
 support the economic and social impact of cultural production.

 1.5. Enabling Impact

 We align with the University’s mission, targeting investment towards economic, health and social
 impact at regional, national and international levels that matches our academic strengths.
 Currently, over 60% of our faculty are generating 124 impact cases captured on the Warwick
 Impact Capture Systems (WICS – originally developed by the School), with 41 led by female
 academics and/or ECRs (see REF5a-2.6).

 Regionally, our research has led to impact through working with local healthcare providers on
 health and social care improvement (Burgess, Croft, Currie, Kiefer, Oborn, Radaelli, Swan,
 Vlaev); Coventry City Council and stakeholders on Coventry City of Culture 2021 and on
 enhancing social impact (Beer, Neelands); and West Midlands Combined Authority on regional

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 productivity, supported by an ESRC ‘Productivity’ grant (£312k, 2018–21) (Fraser, Mole,
 Roper).

 Nationally, our research has informed debate on the effects of the EU Exit on policy, society and
 economy (Bradshaw, Driffield, Meardi, Roper, Warhurst), and influenced policy and debate
 around fracking (Bradshaw). Our behavioural science strength is evident in involvement at
 highest policy level, e.g. through the Behavioural Insight Team and Cabinet Office (Chater,
 Powdthavee, Vlaev). Our research has also led to impact by informing decision-making about
 mergers and acquisitions through membership of the Competition and Markets Authority
 (Thanassoulis); and working with ONS to understand and respond to the graduate labour
 market (Elias).

 Internationally, our research created impact through working with NASA on maintaining
 excellence in the space-exploration sector (Heracleous); the Kenyan Medical Research
 Institute, funded by the Wellcome Trust, on clinical leadership in East Africa (McGivern); and EU
 Horizon 2020 on boosting innovation and job quality to improve employment in Europe
 (Warhurst). We also engaged and influenced the public in our areas of thought leadership, e.g.
 enhancing public understanding of behavioural science and decision-making through the BBC
 Radio 4 series, ‘The Human Zoo’, curated by Chater.

 Encouraging collaboration across Subject Groups, we instituted a model for knowledge-
 brokering between faculty and policy/practice. We identified seven Impact Champions (allocated
 0.5 day per week for the role) to develop and support CoIs in financial services; social,
 environment and economic impact; information systems, operations and analytics; enterprise,
 innovation and growth; work, employment and governance; healthcare management and
 innovation; and behavioural science and marketing.

 Our Impact Sub-Committee, reporting to REIC, decides financial and workload support for
 faculty to accelerate, deepen and broaden their research through CoIs. A School-level Impact
 and Dissemination Fund (£201k from 2016/17 to 2019/20) accelerated our routes to impact with
 practice- and policy-based beneficiaries. Faculty also benefited from the University’s ESRC
 Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) funding (£378,787) and from other Warwick impact-related
 schemes, including Warwick Impact Fund, Higher Education Impact Fund, Strategic Priorities
 Fund, and Public Engagement Fund (£722,789). Additionally, the School allocated over 5,500
 hours to support faculty with developing research impact cases.

 To further promote research impact, we developed educational interventions, including open
 executive-education programmes, e.g. Senior Leaders Business Growth Programme (research
 informed by Driffield), run in collaboration with ESRC ERC. With our Behavioural Science
 Subject Group, we developed a series of ‘Nudgeathons’, collaborative workshops to drive
 behavioural change on specific challenges, e.g. encouraging young people to save (with Which?
 magazine) and enhancing handwashing among clinicians (with University Hospitals
 Birmingham). We have become the Bank of England’s partner – only the third since its 1694
 inception – through launching the Executive MSc in Central Banking and Financial Regulation.
 Jointly designed and delivered, it promotes good financial regulation across the globe.
 Developing relationships with the broader University through the GRPs further facilitates the
 attainment of large-scale grants to engender economic and social impact. For example, the
 School-led ‘Productivity and the Futures of Work’ GRP provided the bedrock for our cross-
 University partnership in the ESRC £26m-funded Productivity Institute, which works with eight
 Regional Productivity Forums that bring together businesses and policymakers to address the

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UK’s poor productivity. Led by Driffield, the Warwick component involves collaboration with the
 Economics Department and WMG, in an interdisciplinary collaboration with NIESR, and
 Universities of Glasgow, Sheffield, Manchester, KCL, Cardiff and Queen’s Belfast.

 At the highest level of governance, the University holds Submission Steering Group (SSG)
 meetings with the School (two/three per year) focused upon its research, chaired by the PVC
 (Research), to discuss the School’s impact on policy, practice and public engagement. Derived
 from the School’s research, the 124 impact cases captured on the my.wbs system have been
 regularly reviewed internally (in the School and by experts in the wider University through SSG),
 with feedback to aid faculty in accelerating, deepening and broadening research impact. Our
 final choice of nine REF impact cases is discussed with SSG, attended by the School’s Dean,
 Pro-Dean (Research, Engagement and Impact), Impact Lead, Research Managers and IER
 Director.

 1.6. Research Ethics

 We have instituted robust ethics infrastructure. The School’s RO provides an advice service and
 reviews all research-ethics applications before submission to the relevant committee – usually
 Humanities and Social Sciences Research Ethics Committee (HSSREC) or (for healthcare-
 related research) Biomedical and Scientific Research Ethics Committee and NHS Health
 Research Authority systems (particularly relevant for research projects funded through NIHR
 ARC WM). Associate Professor Korica provides academic representation on the University’s
 Sponsorship and Oversight Committee, which ensures appropriate sponsorship and governance
 of research in NHS organisations/settings, and on the HSSREC. The University-developed
 research-integrity Concordat and research code of practice have been widely promoted across
 the School; faculty and postdoctoral researchers attend mandatory University ethics/integrity
 training and ‘Good (Clinical) Research Practice’ training when researching in healthcare settings
 (see REF5a-2.11). We endorse and embrace the San Francisco Declaration of Research
 Assessment by supporting the use of responsible bibliometrics to assess scholarly impact.
 Moreover, an internal ethics committee has been convened to consider PhD students’ protocols,
 with onward referral to REC when necessary. PhD students must produce and/or update
 research-ethics protocols annually at the upgrade/review panel monitoring points, and receive
 training on research integrity during the introduction week, ‘Developing Management Research’
 module in year 1, and at the start of years 2 and 3.

 1.7. Opening Up Our Research

 The University instituted a repository (WRAP) to comply with open-access policy and increase
 open-access research/data, within which all our outputs appear (see REF5a-2.10;4.4). Several
 outputs are accessible via the ‘gold route’ supported by dedicated University-level funding for
 outputs from UKRI-funded studies.

 1.8. Future Strategy

 Our future research, engagement and impact strategy continues our present strategy, identified
 in REF-2014, and is central to the School’s 2030 strategy, supported by University Council.
 Focusing on rigorous, interdisciplinary and impactful research, we will:




                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Invest further in structures, processes and culture to generate world-class research
        outputs in emerging important domains, and where we can generate critical mass in a
        similar way to our development of behavioural science over the past ten years.
       Continue to attract large-scale research funding to deepen interdisciplinary research
        through our Research Centres/Networks, in collaboration with other University
        departments and University-level GRPs, to produce transformative solutions to global
        challenges faced by communities, businesses and economies locally, nationally and
        internationally.
       Continue to nurture talent and build research capacity through further developing our
        practices to enable all staff to maximise their research potential, building on past success
        in developing a more diverse workforce and focusing on ECRs.
       Advance the quality of our doctoral research programmes in partnership with other
        University departments, to match the very best global examples, and ensure a diverse
        academic workforce fit for the future
       Further internationalise our research and its impact through large-scale funded
        collaborations with non-UK academic institutions and partners.

 2. People

 2.1. Staffing Strategy

 2.1.1. Development
 Consistent with our research strategy, we fully engage faculty in developing our staffing strategy,
 to ensure inclusivity and that faculty commit to our strategic aims and manage staff accordingly.
 Subject Groups define their intellectual remit (e.g. existing capabilities, focus topics, research-
 development trajectory) and research areas where they wish to invest (e.g. recruitment
 implications of their research aims with sensitivity towards equality and diversity). Subject
 Groups rank themselves alongside competitor institutions, aligned with our strategy to be a
 world-class player in business and management; we ask they devise plans that drive up
 standards and outline how they will attract and retain high quality faculty. We aim high while
 recognising we cannot compete with salaries paid by some of the leading global business
 schools. Accordingly, we ask Subject Groups to help us ensure our School is a great place to
 work for our diverse faculty, with excellent research support and career opportunities, to help
 attract staff. We then pledge to invest in our talented and diverse faculty and help transform
 them into global leading researchers. These Subject Group strategy documents are scrutinised
 by our Executive Management Team to ensure sufficient aspiration, consistency across Groups,
 and alignment with School strategy.

 2.1.2. Recruitment
 Since 2014, the School has grown from 104.4 to 158.15 FTE (research-active category A staff)
 on 31 July 2020. Our recruitment strategy has four main features:

 Developing Career Pathways: we have developed career pathways from doctoral through
 postdoctoral researcher onto full faculty. We internally fund two-year Research Fellowships
 through which we identify high-potential doctoral candidates and invest in their careers. This
 ‘grow-your-own’ strategy has generated high-performing, fast-progressing and committed faculty
 and helped ensure gender-balance within the School (see chart-2.1.2), with female faculty
 including Croft and Surdu (who obtained PhDs with us); and Cacciotti, Beer, Burgess,
 Alempaki, Korica (former Postdoctoral Research Fellows) obtaining faculty positions. Given the


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 age-demographic challenge in the wider business and management academic community, such
 faculty are our rising future stars.

 Recruitment Profile: our recruitment is guided by intellectual fit with the Group, demonstrable
 high potential, shared values (i.e. strong commitment to participate in collective research
 practices), and strategic imperative to address gender imbalances. The latter has been achieved
 by identifying (through our networks) prospective female senior faculty (Horton, MacDonald), by
 discussing potential posts with female ECRs in our Summer Schools (e.g. Practice and Process
 Studies Summer School: Aristidou, Dittrich, Sasaki, Slavova), and by funding two-year
 Postdoctoral Fellowships to support recent female PhD graduates, preparing them for
 permanent faculty positions. With a large faculty, change takes time, but we have seen good
 progress. In the 2020 Financial Times Full-Time MBA rankings, WBS has now risen to joint-
 second in the world for gender-balance of faculty, behind only the University of California at
 Irvine. We are first in the UK and joint first in Europe. During the REF-2021 period, across all
 grades, over 35% of all research-focused hires have been female. Within the next two-to-three
 years, we aim to become the leading Business School in the world for faculty gender-balance.
 We are proud that Warwick is the first Business School in the UK to receive an Athena SWAN
 Silver award in 2017; with much still to do, this was encouraging external validation of our rapid
 progress on equality and diversity staffing. Finally, at the last REF, some Subject Groups had
 few ECRs or mid-career faculty. Our recruitment strategy has addressed this imbalance, by
 hiring at the more junior level (see chart-2.1.2).

 Chart 2.1.2: Faculty Profile 2014–21




 Hiring Senior Faculty: Senior faculty applicants have naturally published at the highest-level in
 business and management journals, but we also require evidence of academic leadership, in
 developing institutional research capacity sustainedly, and nurturing ECRs to full Professorship.
 For example, Ram Gopal (previously at University of Connecticut) in the Information and
 Systems Management Subject Group leads data-science research initiatives – bringing together
 faculty from Operations, Information Systems and Management, and Behavioural Science – and
 became Pro-Dean (Research, Engagement and Impact) from late 2020.

 DREPs: we have invested in DREPs, within Subject Groups, focusing on capacity-building,
 working with ECRs, PhD students, postdoctoral researchers. Since 2014, we have hired three
 new DREPs (Reuer, University of Colorado Boulder; Sandberg, University of Queensland;
 Segal, Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya, Israel) to complement the long-established cadre of
 eight, drawn from the top business schools globally.

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1.3. Staff Development
 Research Environment Leads (RELs) – in partnership with an ECR in their Subject Group –
 organise high-quality research seminars by external speakers. We have spent £257.2k
 supporting over 900 seminars since 2014. Shifting from a ‘Wednesday afternoon’ model,
 external speakers spend two-days at the School, engaging in one-to-one consultations with
 postdoctoral researchers, PhD students and ECRs, reading and commenting on draft papers,
 and delivering research seminars. The Entrepreneurship and Innovation Subject Group
 exemplifies this practice, recent speakers including Ethiraj (Editor-in-Chief, Strategic
 Management Journal), Kilduff (former Editor-in-Chief, Academy of Management Review),
 McMullen (Editor-in-Chief, Journal of Business Venturing), Ahuja (Editor-in-Chief, Organization
 Science), Antonakis (Editor-in-Chief, Leadership Quarterly), Pratt (Associate Editor,
 Administrative Science Quarterly) and Astebro (Associate Editor, Management Science).

 All Subject Groups’ faculty circulate manuscripts with revise-and-resubmit decisions to
 colleagues and PhD students, who meet to discuss the approach. Subject Groups organise
 ‘Meet-the-Editor’ sessions for PhD students and faculty, arrange ‘Awaydays’ (where research
 and research-activity support are discussed), with many arranging workshops on particular
 research aspects, e.g. grounded theory and computational methods (Information and Systems
 Management Subject Group, 2019/20). Subject Groups organise weekly PhD workshops and
 ‘brown-bag’ seminars over lunch, with a supportive, developmental ethos; here, PhD students
 present their research and receive detailed feedback. Subject Groups also arrange writing
 retreats and research incubators where they generate, articulate and scrutinise research ideas.
 In particular, annual Summer Schools have been developed, e.g. aforementioned Behavioural
 Science Summer School (2014-); ‘Data Science for the Social Good’, led by the School
 (Branke) with the University’s Computer Science and Mathematics Departments, and Alan
 Turing Institute (2019-); ‘Practice, Process and Institutions’ (PPI) (2013-); and IER’s co-
 organised ‘Future of Work and Welfare’ in San Sebastian, Spain (2019-). Supported by senior
 faculty, they are convened by junior faculty, e.g. Dittrich and Slavova (PPI Summer School,
 2020, supported by Nicolini and Sandberg).

 We grant study leave in line with University process; i.e. one academic term within a six-term
 period. We occasionally grant leave to staff whose performance is below expectations, e.g.
 where they have assumed significant administrative roles and require space/time to develop
 high-quality publications. We also granted leave to staff returning to work following prolonged
 and serious illness. In addition to automatic leave for probationers, we have granted leave to 30
 Professors (43.3% female, 56.5% male) and 33 Associate Professors (33.3% female, 66.7%
 male) since 2014/15 (equivalent to 102 academic terms). In addition, IER has granted study
 leave to six (Senior) Research Fellows, four Professors and two Associates (equivalent to 12
 academic terms).

 Given that periods of maternity leave curtail research productivity of female academic faculty,
 the University developed the Academic Returners Fellowship (see REF5a-3.4), providing study
 leave of up to 12-months. Since 2014, seven female staff utilised these Fellowships. Where
 faculty have been ineligible for this scheme due to their employment circumstances (e.g. recent
 hires), we have nonetheless reduced teaching and administrative workloads to allow a research-
 focused return for female faculty (e.g. Cacciotti).

 2.1.4. Recognition and Reward
 Within the School, we have developed a bespoke workload model, implemented in 2016/17. For
 research-active faculty, 40% of workload is allocated to research, 60% comprise teaching,

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supervisory, administrative and other activities. All probationers have the equivalent of a full
 year’s study leave spread across first four years of employment. A full term of leave is given in
 years one and two; we have 42 Assistant Professors on our faculty (52.4% female, 47.6% male).
 Workload allocation is given following research funding awards in line with time allocated for
 Principal- or Co-Investigator roles. Research leadership/administrative roles are supported by
 workload allocation for RELs, Research Centre/Network/GRP Leads, Summer School Leads,
 DPC Representatives, the Impact Lead and Impact Champions. Since 2016/17, 11,220 working
 hours have been assigned to these roles. As outlined in 1.5, impact-case leads are supported by
 workload allocation (5,500 hours, provided since 2016/17), School-level Impact and
 Dissemination Funds (£201k from 2016/17 to 2019/20) and wider University schemes, e.g.
 ESRC IAA (£378,787 secured during the period). Thus, faculty enjoy significant resources,
 enabling deep engagement with policy and practice communities, to deliver tangible benefits for
 the economy and wider society. As well as promotion decisions, the School’s Staffing Committee
 discusses and awards merit pay annually, following HoG recommendations. Such decisions are
 made with diversity and inclusion at the heart of the criteria for awards. For example, aligned
 with our emphasis upon developing ECR talent, from 2014 onwards, we allocated 59 merit pay
 awards (47.5% female, 52.5% male).

 We give ECRs resources needed for high-level performance. In this REF period, research
 allowances have increased, with all faculty receiving at least £5k per year to support research
 activities, which they can increase to £10k per year, depending on their research contributions,
 e.g. publication success, editorial roles in journals, and impact case work. For ECRs, we allow
 up to £7.5k spend without additional research work. We are not rule-bound on funding and
 respond to requests for exceptional support on a case-by-case, with ECR requests viewed
 particularly favourably. All non-Professorial staff (mid-career faculty and ECRs) have a senior
 mentor with clear responsibilities. That regular meetings happen and suitable advice given is
 monitored at least annually during faculty’s performance development review, and informally,
 Pro-Dean (Faculty) and Pro-Dean (Research, Engagement and Impact) commonly invite ECRs
 and mid-career researchers for discussions about their research.

 2.1.5. Career Progression
 The School’s Staffing Committee addresses all key staffing processes, making
 recommendations to the University on promotion, allocation of study leave and staff rewards.
 HoGs and mentors make recommendations to Staffing Committee that preserve equality,
 diversity and inclusivity safeguards on approach and process. Staffing Committee has oversight
 across Subject Groups, and cross-references HoG recommendations against all faculty profiles
 to protect against (unconscious) bias. Since 2014, 100% of females who applied for academic
 promotion were successful.

 ECRs’ probationary period is five-years, with potential extension for a further 12-months. If
 performance targets are met, staff can complete early following School recommendation to the
 University’s Staffing Committee. When staff join us, our performance expectations are detailed in
 a three-page document, which has contractual status. Regarding publication, Assistant
 Professors are expected to submit a package of four strong papers or a smaller package
 including publications of exceptional quality. Their research performance is also judged in the
 context of the University framework, emphasising their awareness of and action around diversity,
 research-based teaching, impact, leadership and collegiate participation. Successful completion
 of probation automatically triggers promotion to Associate Professor (see REF5a-3.3). Evidence
 the approach is working well is 72% of our probationers complete early over the REF-2021
 period, of which 44% were female, 56% male.

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1.6. Managing Performance
 We expect all staff to perform at or above the probationary standard, against which we monitor
 performance of all research-active staff. Where performance is insufficient, a managed process
 is enacted supportively and developmentally. We do not increase teaching loads or impose
 sanctions where research levels drop, instead working closely with the individual, and their
 mentor and HoG, to create conditions in which they can fulfil their potential against our
 aspirations for excellence in research publication/impact. We have issued study leave and
 actively curtailed teaching loads to give individuals the space needed to ‘kick-start’ their
 research, for example, where caring responsibilities or long-term sick leave inhibit research
 performance.

 2.1.7. Support and Career Progression of Postdoctoral Researchers
 We have many Postdoctoral Researchers (69.49 FTE during this REF period, with an average
 fixed-term contract of 2.5 years; 44 female, 37 male), due to our success in attracting research
 funding. We are keen to avoid Postdoctoral Researchers becoming ‘jobbing contract
 researchers’ who suffer job insecurity through a series of short-term contracts. They enjoy the
 same support as our Assistant Professors, e.g. an allocated senior-staff mentor. They are
 located in the same Subject Group to which the Principal Investigator for their external research
 contract or their previous PhD supervisor belongs, benefiting from access to seminars,
 workshops and conference-attendance funding. In particular, we seek to support postdoctoral
 researchers to attain high-quality publication records that strengthen their labour-market
 opportunities, internally and externally (see 2.2.5). The Operations Subject Group illustrates the
 success of our support, with Burgess (now Reader) and Radaelli (now Associate Professor)
 having recently progressed from postdoctoral researchers on externally funded research
 contracts.

 2.2. Postgraduate Research Students

 The School encompasses two streams of the doctoral programme (Business and Management;
 Finance and Economics). In 2014/15, a new programme structure was introduced across both
 streams, with the first year comprising primarily taught modules to ensure PhD
 students possess the research skills, knowledge and theoretical/methodological understanding to
 successfully complete their doctorates, and gain academic positions afterwards. We collaborate
 with the Department of Economics in the Finance and Economics pathway, recruiting around ten
 students annually. We are implementing a 2+4 year programme starting 2021/22 for this pathway,
 and then moving to a 2+3 year Business and Management pathway 2023/24. PhD students are
 vital members of the School, contributing to its intellectual vitality; we are committed to developing
 their skills to become independent researchers. Accordingly, alongside seminars and DREP
 support outlined earlier, PhD students are involved in organising workshops and Summer Schools
 (e.g. the Warwick Behavioural Insight Team events, supported by the ‘Behaviour, Brain and
 Society’ GRP), and we have made the training more comprehensive (e.g. with a professional-
 development module) and deeper (e.g. offering modules in advanced methods). Warwick leads
 the Midlands Graduate School Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP), funded by the ESRC, with
 Nottingham, Birmingham, Loughborough, Aston and Leicester. In the current REF-2021 cycle, 20
 PhD students were funded by UK Research Councils (see 2.2.2).

 2.2.1. Recruitment
 The School employs a gender-balanced recruitment model applied through the Senior
 Admissions Panel practices (see below) and an approach to WBS scholarship awards that
 results in a gender-balanced population that exceeds the HESA 46.1% benchmark.

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Table 2.2.1: Recruitment Profile: PhD Students

                             Female                                      Male

   Year                                      Intake (%                              Intake (%
           Apps Offers    Success Accepts               Apps Offers Success Accepts
                                             F/M ratio)                             M/F ratio)

                                                24                                        32
  2014/15 196       38     19.39%      27             301      64    21.26%      38
                                             (42.86%)                                  (57.14%)
                                                25                                        24
  2015/16 194       50     25.77%      28             278      53    19.06%      27
                                             (51.02%)                                  (48.97%)
                                                25                                        23
  2016/17 230       54     23.48%      28             299      54    18.06%      22
                                             (52.08%)                                  (47.92%)
                                                18                                        21
  2017/18 188       44     23.40%      30             321      55    17.13%      27
                                             (46.15%)                                  (53.85%)
                                                22                                        19
  2018/19 203       44     21.67%      23             246      42    17.07%      23
                                             (53.66%)                                  (46.34%)
                                                26                                        24
  2019/20 187       47     25.13%      30             227      47    20.70%      27
                                             (52.00%)                                  (48.00%)
 Our gender split across the entire programme is 52.7% female, 47.3% male.

 Prospective PhD students are allocated to academic supervisors, through the Senior Admissions
 Panel, chaired by the Doctoral Programme Director (Oborn (WBS), Barnes (IER)). The Panel
 meets regularly to review all applications, identifying those that fit our criteria for rigorous
 academic background and proposed research in line with Subject Group expertise, with
 cognisance of unconscious bias and the strategic drive for gender-balance and programme
 diversity. Panel members include at least four RELs and the Programme Director so that subject
 and methodological areas are well represented. Successful applications are progressed to DPC
 Representatives within relevant Subject Groups. DPC Representatives work with RELs of their
 respective groups to identify good potential supervisory fits for applicants, noting any
 preferences from applicants. Interviews are held by at least two faculty, with oversight from the
 respective DPC Representative. The Doctoral Programme Director has final oversight of
 acceptance decisions, which also consider the capacity and fit of the proposed supervisory
 team, with concern for equal opportunities of faculty to supervise.

 2.2.2. Funding
 The School awards approximately 24 scholarships each year from internal funds, ESRC DTP,
 the University’s highly competitive Chancellor’s scholarship, EPSRC, and sponsorship from
 external companies (e.g. Boots, Western Power, NHS Trusts, Living Wage Foundation, Severn
 Trent Water), other research bodies (e.g. Leverhulme Trust, China’s Scholarship Council) and
 governments internationally (e.g. Malaysia; Columbia). The School’s success in research
 degrees awarded largely results from scholarship support for PhD students (see table-2.2.2).

 Research grants support additional fully-funded PhD studentships; e.g. the ESRC-funded
 Network for Integrated Behavioural Science (Loomes) supported an additional three PhD
 studentships. Students are able to apply for internal bursaries, generally awarded annually to
 approximately ten students based on financial need. University-level hardship funding is also
 available, focusing on supporting students with unexpected financial setbacks. These funds are
 additional to regular conference and other research support.

                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Table 2.2.2: Scholarship: PhD Students

                                   2014/15    2015/16   2016/17    2017/18    2018/19    2019/20
  University (International)
                                      1                     1          2          1          1
  Chancellor’s Scholarship
  China’s Scholarship Council         1                                                      2
  ESRC via Warwick Centre for
                                      8                     5          3          1          2
  DTP
  WBS Scholarships                   18         18         19         17         15         17
  IER Scholarship (Robert
                                      1
  Lindley)
  Scholarships Funded by
                                      4          2                     1          1
  External Research Grants
  Scholarships Funded by
                                                 1                     2                     2
  Industry Partner
  TOTAL                              33         21         25         25         18         24
  146 scholarships awarded 2014/15 to 2019/20: 47.3% female, 52.7% males.

 2.2.3. Monitoring and Support
 All PhD students have two supervisors, with expertise drawn from across the School and other
 University departments where relevant (e.g. Branke, with Maths; Stewart, with Psychology).
 Additionally, faculty supervise PhD students from other departments, including Maths (5),
 Psychology (2), Statistics (2), Sociology (1) and Medicine (1), and for other universities, e.g.
 Glasgow (1), Nottingham (1) and Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Belgium (1).

 Progression through the doctoral programme is monitored: all first-year students must pass all
 training modules, achieving an overall average of 60% or more. Annual progress review panels
 give developmental feedback, affirm progress and encourage discussion of wider research-
 related issues. The panel normally comprises both supervisors, two subject experts and (in IER)
 Programme Director (of Graduate Studies). The first-year panel is an upgrade panel; passing
 signals the successful completion of year one. Annual reviews are held by similarly constituted
 panels in second and third years, with a completion review panel in the spring of fourth year.
 Panel outcomes are provided by a green/amber/red signal system. Candidates receiving a
 second red signal may be encouraged to move to an MPhil – following agreement by the
 Progression Review Group, chaired by the Pro-Dean (Research, Engagement and Impact),
 which considers any mitigating circumstances, feedback from supervisors and the respective
 DPC Representative. PhD students document evidence of ongoing supervisory meetings on the
 my.wbs/Tabula system. Here, summaries of interaction are tracked, giving the Doctoral
 Programme Office oversight of ongoing participation and engagement with the programme and
 research. PhD students meet with supervisors at least monthly. Finally, PhD students are
 encouraged to participate and engage actively with Subject Group activities. Any student with
 concerns they feel unable to discuss with supervisors are encouraged to seek support from their
 DPC Representative. If students or DPC Representatives have particular concerns, they can
 also engage the Programme Director for support and guidance.

 Support is also provided through a Health and Wellbeing Group, e.g. sports activities,
 mindfulness sessions and a dedicated health and wellbeing support officer signposting students
 to University-level wellbeing services. Further support includes desk space and computers for

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 full-time students; communal space, facilitating peer interactions; dedicated funds to support
 professional development and conference attendance; and additional resources to support
 research dissemination and conference attendance (e.g. PhD students regularly present at the
 Annual Academy of Management conference in North America).

 2.2.4. Skills Development
 The School and University offer practical training sessions to PhD students, particularly on
 research methods and skills development, including teaching skills. Specific workshops and
 training sessions on methods cover data-analysis techniques, Python coding and qualitative
 skills (e.g. interview coding techniques and discursive analysis). Additionally, other departments
 across the University similarly run courses that are available to our students, e.g. in Psychology
 and Computer Science. All PhD students with an interest in teaching on undergraduate courses
 receive a four-day training workshop on basic teaching skills.

 The University launched a new system in 2019, Skills Forge, to formalise and consolidate skills
 development available to all research students across campus. All courses with a practical
 component (spanning time-management skills or analytic software use in data-coding) can be
 accessed and tracked through this platform, providing a summary of all transferable learning
 upon degree completion (see REF5a-3.8).

 2.2.5. Preparation for Future Academic Careers
 Our aim is to place our PhD students in top institutions; this requires that high-quality outputs are
 developed during study. Our PhD students have had considerable success in publishing in peer-
 reviewed journals prior to, or just after, thesis submission, e.g. Nofal in Journal of Management,
 Friedland in Leadership Quarterly, Hadjimichael in Academy of Management Annals,
 Buechner in Review of Financial Studies, Maligkoris in Management Science, Cascaldi-
 Garcia in American Economic Review, Burlinson and Krishnakumar in Research Policy,
 Papachroni in Human Relations, and Rofcanin in Journal of Occupational and Organizational
 Psychology.

 Post-graduation, the School increasingly places its former PhD students in top institutions, e.g.
 Cambridge Judge Business School, London School of Economics, Copenhagen Business
 School (Denmark), KU Leuven (Belgium), University of Geneva (Switzerland), University of
 Pennsylvania, Princeton and NYU Stern (USA), Zhejiang University (China), University of
 Queensland and QUT Business School (Australia). We also manage such talent internally to
 take up WBS faculty positions (39 PhD students (23 female, 16 male) have secured WBS
 postdoctoral fellowship/research/faculty roles during the REF-2021 period). The School has won
 competitive funding to support postdoctoral research from the University’s Institute of Advanced
 Studies (Johnson, Luchinskaya, from IER).


 2.2.6. Doctor of Business Administration
 Our Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) programme was launched in 2016/17, and further
 supports internationalisation of our research, given most participants are from outside the UK.
 They contribute to the School beyond their own research on real-life business issues. For
 example, in 2019/20 they launched the Warwick Consulting Group
 (https://www.warwickcg.com/), which organised a conference, Reframing Impact – Driving
 Change Under Wicked Conditions, at our Shard campus. They also organised a session at the
 Strategic Management Society Special Conference at UC Berkeley in March 2020, and a
 conference extension at the 2020 Strategic Management Society’s Annual Conference. One

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 DBA student (Oviedo) has already co-authored with supervisor (Paroutis) in Strategic
 Management Journal. Our long-term goal is to create a cadre of high-quality scholar-
 practitioners that helps us further close the gap between our research and practice.

 2.3. Equality and Diversity

 We are committed to promoting a positive working culture and collegial environment, so
 individuals feel they belong and are valued. The Equality and Diversity (E&D) Committee,
 chaired by Pro-Dean (Faculty) (Llewellyn), oversees these activities. Initiatives are grouped
 according to themes, aligned to each protected characteristic. Each theme is co-led by an
 academic and professional services staff member; initiatives include:
      Age: Raising awareness on the menopause and retirement planning.
      Caring Responsibilities: Launch of ‘Good Practice Guide’ for Maternity, Paternity &
         Adoption Leave.
      LGBTUA+: Launch of student coffee catch-ups, promotion of our LGBTUA+ supporters
         network.
      Race and Religious Belief: Launch of our ‘Race Equality Champions’, a review of
         degree awarding gap, curriculum review and speaker series for Black History Month;
      Wellbeing: Events, ‘Time to Talk’ and ‘Blue Monday’, talks with our ‘Study Happy’ team
         and a wheelchair challenge that has led to several structural building changes to improve
         accessibility.

 The E&D Committee also has oversight of the Athena SWAN activities that promote gender
 equality. The School obtained a silver award in 2017 and continues to deliver on the action plan
 to further progress in this area. Outcomes include an increased representation of female
 academics and the extension of the own-grown CORE Development Programme to include a
 CORE Leadership Programme, providing further support for career progression and succession
 planning. We have developed a UK network of Business Schools who are engaged in E&D
 activities, many of whom have also achieved Athena SWAN awards or working towards an
 award. The network now has representation from over 30 Business Schools and meets annually.

 In 2020, the School began more focussed work on race equality, appointing a Race Equality
 Lead (Zeitoun), who is supported by a number of Race Equality Champions. Three race equality
 sub-groups have been established: Curriculum and Degree Awarding Gap; Student Engagement
 and Alumni and; Staff, with oversight of activities provided by the E&D Committee. Our
 demographic data shows that the School has grown in diversity since REF-2014, with a 6.63%
 increase in the employment of faculty from ethnic minorities, with the proportion of faculty
 26.05% BAME at end of REF period.

 2.3.1. Flexible Working Arrangements
 The School has supported faculty with temporary or permanent reduction in hours to assist with
 childcare responsibilities, personal circumstances, or those returning from long-term sick leave.
 Outside of scheduled teaching hours, faculty have a great deal of autonomy over when and
 where they work, with option to work remotely from home for research and administrative duties.
 Following the COVID-19 pandemic, the School have supported faculty who have experienced
 difficulties with childcare and caring responsibilities, by providing flexibility in covering some
 teaching activities. For faculty that are clinically extremely vulnerable and unable to teach on
 campus, teaching has been covered or arrangements made so they can teach online from
 home.


                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.3.2. Conference Attendance
 The University supports research-active staff by providing small awards of up to £150 to help
 with childcare or caring responsibilities associated with attending conferences. Faculty are
 eligible to submit one claim per trip and a maximum claim of two in any academic year.
 Additionally, the School may support further costs not covered by the University award.

 Moreover, the School has its own Childcare/Caring Support Scheme to provide funds for the
 following non-conference related activities: supporting collaborative research work (e.g. co-
 author visits); data collection; work related to impact and engagement; accompanying PhD
 students on overseas trips.

 2.4. REF 2021 Code of Practice

 In line with the University’s REF Code of Practice, the School has adhered to equality and
 diversity issues in preparing all elements of the REF-2021 submission (see REF5a-3.5).
 Specifically, we developed and implemented a dedicated REF Output Code of Practice, guided
 by our REIC and Senior Management Group, and communicated to all faculty. We have a four-
 stage process for selecting outputs for REF return: initial filtering of outputs, two stages of
 internal review, and a third-stage of external review. We carefully select internal and external
 reviewers to work alongside each Subject Group’s HoG and REL, ensuring gender-balance and
 expertise which aligns with the output’s content and methodology. We send outputs for review
 following initial internal screening by the relevant HoG and REL. Aligned with our
 interdisciplinary research, we consider outputs that lie outside the business and management
 domain; e.g. in core disciplines of behavioural science, and that are of international quality (e.g.
 Journal of Experimental Psychology, Nature, Science). Following review, we have set a
 benchmark ‘rating’ for including outputs in our return, aligned with the requirement for total
 number of returned outputs.

 We have emphasised our strategy to rebalance our faculty profile towards ECRs and a diverse
 faculty, and to develop a setting that supports them becoming future senior research leaders.
 Where ECRs have only Working Papers (a particular feature of our Finance Subject Group), we
 review these outputs internally, sensitive to compromising the blind-review process when
 manuscripts are submitted to peer-reviewed journals. Working Papers constitute 3% of our
 submission.

 Staff members affected by equality-related circumstances make their case through the
 University Disclosure Form to the independent REF Staff Circumstances Group, which
 considers whether the number of equality-related circumstances has disproportionately affected
 the School’s total output pool.

 The majority of our outputs are generated by current staff. Where leavers’ outputs have been
 returned, we base this decision on their output being of high-quality following review, with
 number of outputs returned against each being largely determined by their length of service
 during the REF period. Outputs authored by leavers account for 12% of our submission.

 Finally, regarding DREPs, the number of outputs we return is determined by their employment
 proportion and length of employment (many DREPs have been employed since before 2014).
 Outputs authored by DREPs account for 8.5% of our submission (excluding Henfridsson, who
 was a substantive Professor and HoG for the vast majority of the REF period).


                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

    3.1 Income

    The School has a long, successful history of raising large-scale research income to facilitate the
    input–output virtuous relationship across research activity. We focus on impact in key domains
    of intellectual strength, e.g. behavioural science, enterprise/innovation and healthcare
    improvement, commonly in interdisciplinary teams that cross University departments. Our
    success in attracting research income is evidenced by being ranked first in the UK in the CABS
    2019 report on research income across higher education. The report, employing HESA data
    from 2012/13 to 2017/18, shows we received over £27.3m, with £4.4m in 2017/18.2 Our strategy
    and support for academics seeking research income orientate them towards areas in which we
    have necessary critical mass to impact grand challenges of society, and which align with our
    CoIs, Research Centres/Networks. Accordingly, we develop interdisciplinary teams for large-
    scale research-funding bids, commonly with commercial, civic or public organisations. We
    proactively identify non-professorial faculty to join bids, commonly supported by or led by our
    senior staff, in particular with concern for diversity (e.g. Burgess, supported by Currie, for
    Health Foundation funding £400k). Our diverse range of funding sources include UKRI (ESRC,
    EPSRC, AHRC, NERC, MRC); government agencies, e.g. the NIHR, Department for Culture,
    Media and Sport, Department for Health, Department for Education (DfE), Department for
    Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS), Department for Work and Pensions (DWP),
    Social Mobility Commission, Ministry of Defence and Innovate UK; charities, e.g. Health
    Foundation, Nuffield Foundation, Gatsby Foundation, Edge Foundation, Joseph Rowntree Trust,
    Leverhulme Trust and Wellcome Trust; the European Commission with European Research
    Council Framework Programme (FP-7), Horizon 2020 and European Research Council (e.g.
    Advanced Grants); and commercial organisations, e.g. British Telecom and Royal Bank of
    Scotland (see 1.5; chart-3.1.1). The diversity of sources enables us to sustain significant
    funding, even if income from one agency declines (see table-1-REF4b).

    Highlights include:
          Currie (with Swan as Co-Investigator) partner with Newcastle University Medical School,
           Tilda Goldberg Centre for Social Work and Social Care, Bedfordshire University, NHS
           children’s care providers, and a charity (Care Leavers’ Association) in £1.63m ESRC
           research programme, supporting diffusion of meaningful innovation for looked-after
           young people negotiating the transition from care to adulthood.
          Loomes leads for the School in a partnership with Universities of Nottingham and East
           Anglia – crossing economics, computer science, maths and psychology – in a Network
           for Integrated Behavioural Science that attained successive funding from the ESRC,
           most recently £2m in 2017–21.
          We have received successive rounds of funding, each just under £10m, for the NIHR
           Collaborations for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care (CLAHRC 2014–19),
           later renamed ARC (2019–24) West Midlands, co-directed by Currie (also includes
           Burgess, Kiefer, Oborn, Swan, Vlaev). We partner with Warwick, Birmingham and
           Keele Medical Schools, and over 20 health and social care providers in the West
           Midlands. This has a translational role to accelerate, deepen and broaden the use of
           evidence generated by clinical researchers in frontline practice to improve service

2
 See ‘Research Income for Business and Management: Analysis of HESA Data 2012/13-2017/18’
at   https://charteredabs.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/75287-CABS-Research-Income-Report-
2019-1.pdf
                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        delivery for patient benefit. Our income from NIHR CLAHRC/ARC over the REF period
        approaches £3m.
       ERC, co-directed by Roper, partners with Aston University Business School, and has
        been funded by the ESRC over three rounds, totalling £6.5m. ERC closely collaborates
        with regional government agencies (e.g. Midlands Innovation, West Midlands Combined
        Authority) and national government agencies (BEIS, Innovate UK, British Business
        Bank).
       Funded by EU FP7 research funding of €6.8m (2014–18), IER (Brown, Bimrose)
        collaborates with academic partners (Karlsuhe University of Applied Science, Ruhr-
        University of Bochum, Jozef Stefan Institute, Clausthal University of Technology, ZSI-
        centre for Innovation) and government agencies (e.g. DWP UK, and Slovenian and
        Croatian Employment Services) in the project ‘EmployID’ supporting learning innovation
        in European Employment Services.

 Aligned with our talent development strategy, focusing on ECRs and encouraging development
 of diverse faculty, supporting progression of mid-career researchers towards Chair
 appointments, we highlight the following successes:

       ESRC awards for ECRs: Two female Assistant Professors, Aristidou (2018–) and
        Dittrich (2020–), were awarded seven-year ESRC Future Leadership Fellowships for
        over £1m each. We enjoyed success with awards for ESRC Postdoctoral Fellowships for
        female researchers: Bharatan’s study of the lives of container ship employees (£84,999,
        2018–19) and Sarkar’s with NGO Child Rights for You, to address the problem of child
        labour in India (£128k, 2019–21).
       British Academy awards for mid-career faculty: Micheli (£115,885, 2017–18) on design
        thinking to improve people’s lives; Ozcan (£125,734, 2019–20), on market transformation
        in banking through regulatory change, and Morrell (£103,829, 2015–16) on policing and
        the public good. All three progressed to Chair during the REF period, with Ozcan, Moat
        and Galvao, representing three female promotions to Chair in the 2017/18 internal
        promotion round.




                                                                                        Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Chart 3.1.1: Cumulative Research Income Generated in REF 2021 (£32,727,277) by HESA
 Column (2013/14 to 2019/20)




 3.2. Infrastructure and Facilities

 3.2.1. Research Office (RO)
 Since REF 2014, we have significantly invested in scaling up a dedicated RO. Seven permanent
 staff (versus two previously) provide support for various research activities, including
 application/post-application support for grant income and research engagement/impact. Our RO
 works closely with the University’s R&IS team to scan the funding horizon proactively, and
 provide intelligence to develop ‘funder insights’. RO/R&IS staff provide education through
 workshops aimed at particular cadres of faculty (e.g. ECRs) and/or linked to particular funding
 programmes (e.g. the ESRC’s Future Leaders Fellowship). They host events with senior national
 and regional government officials, and policy/research directors/officers of charitable
 foundations, to discuss key policy issues and inform research priorities. They provide one-to-one
 grant-writing support for faculty. Once the bid is drafted, Pro-Dean (Research, Engagement and
 Impact), relevant senior members of faculty experienced in successful research bidding, and
 University R&IS staff familiar with the particular funding programme, then offer internal peer
 review to improve it. Finally, for some schemes (e.g. for ESRC Centres), the PVC (Research)
 convenes a sub-committee to provide the demand management required; this provides further
 feedback to applicants (see REF5a-1.7).



                                                                                          Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The RO supports cultural embeddedness of impact within the School by organising impact-
 related workshops. We have invested £210,110 to employ a dedicated Impact and Environment
 Manager since 2016/17, significantly improving how we pursue and record impact. Faculty of
 Social Sciences Impact Manager and Impact Coordinator from R&IS are embedded within the
 RO, dedicating two days per week to support impact activities. Faculty Impact Team provides
 guidance on developing engagement activities and impact-funding applications, including to
 University schemes (e.g. ESRC IAA and Warwick’s Impact Leave schemes), from which we
 have enjoyed success.

 3.2.2. Investment in Physical Infrastructure and Facilities
 School’s building facilities have expanded at both the main campus in Coventry and The Shard
 in London. The Coventry campus includes a main building where all faculty have individual
 offices, and a Teaching Centre Annex that is currently a dedicated space for PhD students
 registered on the Business and Management pathway. PhD students on the Finance and
 Econometric pathway are located in the main School building. As promised in REF 2014, the
 Phase 3b building extension in 2015 brought together all our faculty (previously spilt across
 different locations on the main campus) under one roof. Behavioural Science Laboratories have
 promulgated further interdisciplinary collaborations with Economics, Psychology, Philosophy,
 Statistics, Mathematics and the Medical School. The Laboratory is used for administering
 (computer-based) large-scale psychological and economic experiments, with facilities available
 for studies involving eye-tracking, electroencephalogram and other specialist equipment. The
 number of academic offices has increased by 39 from 2013 to 2015. Plans were approved for
 another building expansion in 2020 (Phase 4a) at Coventry, to provide space within the main
 building for all PhD students, close to their Subject Groups, to further enrich and enhance their
 research experiences. This is currently on hold due to COVID-19.

 Our expansion into The Shard enhances connection to policy and practice, and
 internationalisation of research and impact. The space is used for academic events such as
 conferences (FinTech 2016, Mergers and Acquisitions 2019) and special guest lectures from
 senior executives from private, public or third-sector organisations (e.g. NASA’s Chief
 Technology Officer). We also use it for workshops to diffuse our research. For example, Hoque
 engaged London-based policymakers to engender significant policy impact in employment of
 those with disability. Currie, Kiefer, Roper and Heracleous partnered with the London-based
 Open Innovation Unit in the Cabinet Office to engage senior civil servants in our research on
 healthcare and other public-sector innovation, following which a NIHR CLAHRC researcher was
 seconded to the Cabinet Office for six months, working on a Green Paper about youth mental
 health. Meanwhile, Bradshaw leads the Annual Energy Forum at The Shard, generating his
 policy briefings on UK energy security.

 3.2.3. Investment in Organisational Infrastructure
 Our investment in Subject Groups builds on historical strengths while adopting a forward-looking
 and adaptive approach. For example, our historical strength in Organisation and Human
 Resource Management, and Operations Research, have been features of the School, in
 different guises, since the 1967 inception. We have evolved to develop new areas of scholarly
 endeavour, most recently our world-leading Behavioural Sciences Subject Group, integrating
 global talent from Economics and Psychology Departments.

 We remain keen to engage the public with our research. Taking advantage of our distance-
 learning infrastructure – in place for over 30 years – we invested in seven Massive Open Online
 Courses (MOOCs, at around £60k each), attracting over 180,000 registrations. For example, the

                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 six-week MOOC The Mind is Flat: The Shocking Shallowness of Human Psychology (Chater)
 ran eight times in 2014–20, with 97,000 active learners collectively. This MOOC was developed
 using the latest research in behavioural science, including Templeton Foundation-funded
 research into ‘Decision Time for Free Will’ (£72,918, 2011–14), and an ERC Advanced
 Investigator Grant to research ‘Rationality’, particularly with respect to decision-making (£1.5m,
 2012–17).

 3.2.4. Investment in Data Infrastructure
 With the University’s Library, we invested significantly in databases and data sources to support
 business and management academic research. These include ABI/INFORM Global, Amadeus,
 British Standards Online, Business Expert Press (E-book platform), Business Source Complete,
 Company Reporting, DataStream, EconLit, Emerald, Europa World Plus, Fame, Global Business
 Intelligence, Global Company Intelligence, GlobalData Power, Gore-Browne on companies,
 IBFD Tax Research Platform, International GAAP online, Manifest Voting Data, MarketLine,
 Mintel Oxygen, Nexis, OECD i-Library, Passport, ScienceDirect, Scopus, Statista, Supply Chain
 Analysis, Sustainable Organization Library, Thomson ONE Banker, Thomson Research, UK
 Data Service, Web of Science, World Competitiveness Online (IMD) and XpertHR. Additionally,
 IER holds data from the UK Data Service (UK Quarterly Labour Force Survey, Annual
 Population and Understanding Society Surveys) and Eurostat (European Labour Force Survey);
 it also operates the ‘LMI for All’ data portal, containing labour-market information, on behalf of
 the Department for Education (DfE). PhD students enjoy access to Bloomberg financial and
 Thomson Reuters Eikon datasets via a WBS-dedicated terminal. Respectively, these provide
 access to financial information on equities, stock market indices, fixed-income securities,
 currencies, commodities, and futures for both international and domestic markets; and financial
 market data and analytics. The University also subscribes to Research Professional and
 Community of Science to ensure researchers can keep up-to-date with the latest news and
 funding opportunities.

 Underpinning our impact data is my.wbs IT system. Specifically, my.wbs Impact Capture System
 allows the Impact Case Lead and others (CoI Champions, relevant RO/R&IS staff) to develop
 and edit impact cases in real-time as impact and its evidence matures. The system is so
 successful, it has been embraced by the wider University and implemented across all
 departments (see REF5a-2.6).

 Regarding data security, School procedures have been implemented to support compliance with
 the new General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) plus the University’s Data Protection
 Policy, Information Security Policy, Research Code of Practice and Ethical Framework. Our
 procedures are designed to ensure all staff and research partners manage data in a way that
 ensures its confidentiality, integrity and access only to authorised users following the ISO 27001
 principles. IER is the only research institute in UK business and management higher education
 to have ISO 900:2015 quality certification for its research provision. Procedures are routinely
 audited and monitored through our quality-management system. The nature of our research,
 requires dedicated systems for processing sensitive and personal data on behalf of government
 departments.

 3.2.5. Investment in Communications Infrastructure
 Our media strategy aligns with our CoIs to focus on key themes seen as strategically important
 for the School. Our ‘Core Insights’ campaign sees research in these areas written as op-eds for
 practitioners and published on the School’s website, with social media and advertising used to
 drive readership. From inception in April 2018 to July 2020, Core Insight series has generated

                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 241,773 page views and 741,557 social media clicks, resharing, comments and likes. Short
 videos of Core Insights articles have also been curated, leading to 705,563 views on YouTube
 and social media. The articles are republished on Medium, The Conversation and Forbes adding
 another 1,404,221 page views. More recently started podcasts – ‘Leading through COVID-19’ –
 are using the Core Insights research to offer practical advice to businesses and organisations
 during the pandemic. To July 2020, 14 podcast episodes attracted 8,605 downloads/listens (e.g.
 Powdthavee ‘How to exit the lockdown and save money’, Spyridonidis ‘The guiding principles
 for leading organisations in a crisis’, and Bradshaw ‘What will the energy industry look like after
 the pandemic?’).

 Core Insights research is also pitched to the media as press releases, op-eds and expert
 comment, where academics’ research expertise ties in with breaking news to give the public
 evidence-based insight. This totalled 62,796 media mentions in the REF-2021 period, including
 1,750 television and radio appearances; and citations on BBC (1,226), Financial Times (628),
 The Times (337), The Guardian (277) and The Telegraph (192).

 We have encouraged faculty to engage through publishing in The Conversation, with 181
 articles within this REF period, with a readership of over 2.6m. For example, Chater’s ‘Would
 you stand up to an oppressive regime or would you conform? Here's the science’, published in
 2019, achieved 213,140 reads.

 Research Centres, Networks and Institutes communicate and disseminate their research,
 including relevant analyses and key findings, directly to stakeholders. For example, the ESRC-
 funded ERC has a dedicated website (https://www.enterpriseresearch.ac.uk/), monthly
 newsletter and prominent social-media presence (https://twitter.com/ERC_UK), with over 3,000
 followers – and the IRRU’s working-paper series (disseminating key research findings in
 industrial relations) has 111 issues circulated to date, e.g. ‘Making Britain the best place in the
 world to work: how to protect and enhance workers’ rights after Brexit ... and coronavirus’ (June
 2020). Meanwhile, IER has a monthly e-newsletter to disseminate its latest research, primarily to
 policymakers (https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/ier/aboutier/newsletter/).

 Several faculty members have established prominent social-media presence, using tools such
 as Twitter and LinkedIn, to disseminate research findings, offer thought leadership pieces, and
 contribute to ongoing debates in their areas of expertise. For example, Heracleous, Professor of
 Strategy (https://twitter.com/Strategizing), has over 18,000 Twitter followers and regularly
 promotes research findings, e.g. two pieces in The Conversation (31,593 reads), and a post on
 his research with Xerox ‘Structural ambidexterity and competency traps: insights from Xerox
 PARC’ (over 11,000 views and likes on LinkedIn).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1. Research Collaborations

 Our University and School are regionally ‘grounded’, while also addressing national priorities and
 striving for global standing. Ensuring Excellence with Purpose is realised (see REF5a-1.2;2.1),
 our value of openness drives us to collaborate, including with policymakers, business and
 management practitioners, trade unions, the public, other disciplines (within and beyond our
 University) and those developing executive education. Large-scale external funding,
 complemented by internal support, provides the foundation. Our Research Centres and


                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Networks support our collaboration and impact regionally, nationally and internationally, cohering
 around our CoIs. Reflecting our interdisciplinary openness, University GRPs (particularly
 ‘Productivity and the Futures of Work’, ‘Energy’ and ‘Behaviour, Brain and Society’) also
 represent conduits for impact.

 4.1.1. Regional
 We work closely with local business and public-service agencies (e.g. Local Enterprise
 Partnerships with West Midlands Combined Authority and Midlands Engine) to drive regional
 productivity and wellbeing. This aligns with our critical mass for impact in enterprise and
 innovation, and healthcare improvement. Our Research Centres (specifically NIHR
 CLAHRC/ARC and ESRC ERC) are key conduits for regional collaboration and impact. Our
 ‘knowledge-brokering’ impact model is increasingly evident in healthcare improvement: we
 simultaneously pull clinical practitioners into our research team, and embed our researchers ‘in
 residence’ within practice settings. For example, Currie and Swan, with Singh (WMS), were
 awarded funding through the ESRC Impact Accelerator Account to ‘buy out’ (at one day per
 week for two years) a lead clinical practitioner from Coventry and Warwickshire Partnership
 Trust (CWPT) to work on their study of innovation to support care-leavers’ transition into
 adulthood (2019–23). Our deep research relationship with regional healthcare providers through
 NIHR CLAHRC/ARC leads such providers to fund secondment of research faculty into their
 organisations. For example, Heart of England Foundation Trust (HEFT) paid half the salary of
 Burgess and Vlaev for three years (2016–18) to drive research-informed quality improvement
 through in-house workshops and presentations to key stakeholders. Burgess and Vlaev – with
 University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire (UHCW) and HEFT respectively – drew down
 large-scale Health Foundation funding to examine value-based re-engineering of services
 (£440k, 2018–21), and handwashing and medicines adherence (£185k, 2016–18). Vlaev, with
 WMG and WMS, also gained Midlands Engine funding to drive simultaneous productivity and
 employee health and wellbeing in the regional economy (NHS England, £93k, 2018–20).

 Consistent with our strategic aim to develop ECRs and world-class PhD programmes, our
 regional impact strategy includes doctoral researchers. Many are funded by NIHR
 CLAHRC/ARC, via ESRC DTP, by the School, or through financial contributions from practice
 partners (e.g. in UHCW). For example, Woolley (a former HEFT executive director) has
 completed her PhD in this REF period (supervisors Croft, Currie), focused upon an
 ethnographic study of UHCW board’s decision-making. We have sustained her research through
 internal funding for a two-year postdoctoral fellowship designed to support progression towards
 a full faculty position. Meanwhile, in CWPT, many doctoral researchers are or have been ‘in
 residence’, including Latuszynska (who completed her internally funded PhD during this REF
 period on managing risk within a mental-health crisis team, supervised by McGivern, Oborn);
 and, funded by ESRC DTP, Stevenson is examining the enactment of patient safety in mental
 health, focused on eating-disorders services (supervised by Currie, and MacKintosh from
 Leicester University Health Science Department, via ESRC DTP funding). In total, through NIHR
 CLAHRC/ARC we have embedded over ten doctoral researchers in practice within this REF
 period, with real-time feedback provided to the organisation to support their service improvement
 efforts.

 Exemplifying our input–output virtuous relationship and capacity-building, a critical mass of
 research expertise within NIHR CLAHRC/ARC focuses on healthcare leadership (Croft, Crump,
 Currie, McGivern, Oborn, Spyridonidis), drawing on research studies in regional healthcare
 providers. The design and delivery of leadership-development interventions followed, and
 Crump, Spyridonidis and our Director of Executive Education are currently delivering a

                                                                                           Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 leadership programme (funded at c.£200k) to the senior-management team within UHCW.

 Together, our Research Centres respond to priorities regionally. NIHR CLAHRC/ARC and ESRC
 ERC have collaborated to create regional economic, health and social value through the
 successful Coventry City of Culture (CofC) 2021 bid (led by Neelands, Beer), with academic
 researchers throughout the University brought together by the GRP ‘Connecting Cultures’. Our
 development of theory of change within which nuanced measures of economic, social and health
 impact are embedded, drives the CofC programming.

 4.1.2. National
 Our Research Centres are also key conduits for national-level impact. IKON instituted a national
 Knowledge and Innovation Network (KIN), with 13 organisational partners (e.g. PwC, Severn
 Trent Water, MacMillan Cancer Support), each paying a subscription fee. KIN focuses on
 knowledge mobilisation and networks to support innovation processes, with reported benefits for
 profitability, customer satisfaction, staff retention and innovation in partner organisations
 (Dittrich, McGivern, Nicolini, Swan). Our recent national success as a lead partner in ESRC
 Productivity Institute (Driffield, Roper, Surdu, Warhurst, £32m, 2020–25) highlights how our
 School Research Centres (ESRC ERC and IER) and University GRPs (Productivity and the
 Futures of Work) collaborate and develop partnerships with other universities to impact UK’s
 economic performance.

 Aligned with our critical mass of expertise within Research Centres and Networks, we make
 impact through both research funding and faculty’s expert-adviser membership of high-level
 external committees, groups and societies. Research carried out by IRRU and IER impacts
 through involvement in Performers’ Alliance APPG’s Inquiry into mobility in the creative sector,
 UK Parliament (both Dean), DfE Skills Policy Analysis Academic Panel (Warhurst), Ofqual’s
 Vocational Advisory Group (Brown), House of Lords Select Committee on Affordable Childcare
 (Lyonette), Centre for Social Justice Disability Commission (Hoque), Oxfam GB on poverty
 alleviation, economic empowerment of women (both Wright) and Oxfam Scotland Decent Work
 (Warhurst). Extending beyond ESRC ERC and ESRC Productivity Institute, but similarly
 focused on enterprise and innovation, Mitchell (Macroeconomic Policy and Forecasting
 Research Network) was funded 0.2 FTE to work with ONS (2017–19); Bradshaw (Lead for
 University GRP Energy) is Chair of the Department for BEIS Fossil Fuels Price Projections
 Expert Panel; collaborating with faculty from the University’s Department of Economics, Battisti
 and Galvao are members of the ONS Economic Experts Working Group; and Mitchell, Galvao,
 Petrella collaborate with NIESR on funded research programmes, including the Economic
 Statistics Centre of Excellence (£134k, 2017–19).

 The breadth and depth of our national impact is reflected in impact cases not submitted for REF-
 2021 consideration. For example, the Work, Employment and Governance CoI supported impact
 derived from Hoque’s research, informing removal of Clause 13 in the Trade Union Bill and
 protecting facility time for union representatives.

 4.1.3. International
 Through NIHR CLAHRC/ARC, our research has derived international benefit. Burgess, Crump,
 Currie, Oborn and Spyridonidis gained internal Monash–Warwick Health Alliance funding of
 £0.5m to recruit a Professor, and the School match-funded an Associate Professor post (Croft),
 with Monash Medical School, to pursue health improvement across the two national systems
 (2017–20). Comparative international learning and impact has derived from associated large-
 scale research funding: Australian Research Council ($Aus500k), transforming Victorian

                                                                                          Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 healthcare systems (2014–17) (Burgess, Crump, Currie – presenting to policymakers in
 Victoria Department of Health and Human Resources and local-level providers during
 international visits to support healthcare improvement); NHMRC ($Aus750k), women in
 healthcare leadership (2020–) (Croft, Crump, Currie – using our research-derived logic model
 of distributed leadership to work with senior executives from Victoria State healthcare providers
 and Royal College professional leads to co-design organisational-level interventions supporting
 women into healthcare leadership); and internal Monash–Warwick funding (£60k, 2019–21),
 short distance-learning courses on leadership for healthcare improvement in Australia (Crump,
 Currie). Meanwhile, Skouteris (Monash Medical School) is a co-investigator on the ESRC-
 funded (£1.63m) research programme on the transition of looked-after young people out of care
 (EXIT study, 2019–23, Currie, Swan).

 Collaboration across our Research Centres generates social value for large-scale EU funding.
 Cohering around our CoI in Work, Employment and Governance, IRRU and IER, we established
 a UK Observatory for the EurWORK European Observatory of Working Life (£400k, Kispeter,
 Meardi, Hoque, Hogarth, 2014–). Aligned with our strategic imperative to generate economic
 value and partner with other universities, research by Branke and Strauss forms part of an EU
 Horizon 2020-funded grant (COCTA, funding over £360k, 2016–18), with the Universities of
 Belgrade (Serbia) and Applied Sciences, Worms (Germany), to improve EU air-traffic-control
 efficiency.

 4.2. Contributions to Economy and Society

 In line with our strategy to support UK economy’s competitiveness, our research beneficiaries
 extend across industry sectors. Micheli’s design-thinking research (funded by Design Council at
 £70k, 2013–15, and British Academy at £155k, 2017–18) has made Emirates Group’s finance
 function more customer-oriented. We delivered the bespoke Emirates Leadership Development
 Programme, training 120 people in design thinking (£1.5m, 2012-). Highlighting the
 embeddedness of doctoral researchers in our activities, Baptista’s research on digital working,
 with PhD Student (Sheikh), shaped a multimillion-pound investment hosting IBM’s expanding
 global software-development team (WeWork). Ocado used Strauss’s research (EPSRC, £10k,
 2017) to develop algorithms to enable smart, automated and dynamic decision-making in e-
 fulfilment, to improve the efficiency of customers’ home-delivery slot-booking. We also secure
 funding focused on knowledge transfer in the corporate world through Innovate UK, e.g.
 Nandhakumar partnered Herbert Smith Freehills and analytics start-up Solomonic to apply
 machine-learning capability to resolve legal disputes (£115k, 2018–19). Through Innovate UK’s
 Knowledge Transfer Partnership programme, Branke and Deineko partnered Slicker Recycling
 to minimise driving distances for waste-oil collection from customers, thus reducing operation
 costs and carbon footprint (£211k, 2018–21).

 Public-sector and not-for-profit organisations regionally and nationally also benefited from our
 research in line with our wider social mission, illustrated by three impact cases in this REF
 period that were not returned. Burgess led research (NIHR HS&DR, £309k, 2010–12)
 enhancing Nottingham University Hospitals Trust’s clinical governance and organisation
 development, with the lead geriatrician reporting that research-prescription implementation in
 2014–15 saved 66 older people’s lives. Directly funded by partners coproducing the research,
 our globally recognised expertise in nudge theory has informed policy and practice to improve
 citizen wellbeing, applying product development in retail banking to give consumers a better deal
 (with The Fairbanking Foundation), enhancing consumer compliance with tax returns (with
 Behavioural Insights Team and HRMC), increasing cervical-cancer-screening take-up (with

                                                                                           Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Hillingdon Borough Council, London), improving compliance with council-tax payment (with
 Croydon Council) (all led by Vlaev). Meanwhile, the Behavioural Science and Marketing CoI has
 also led an impact case included by the University’s Psychology Department in its REF return,
 ‘Informing the Financial Conduct Authority’s measures to help consumers take better control of
 their spending’ (Stewart).

 Our research beneficiaries include UK government: Department for Education, drawing upon
 Hogarth’s research-informed implementation of the Apprenticeship Scheme; Department for
 Digital, Culture, Media and Sport, informed by Neelands’ and Beer’s research through a
 Warwick Commission-informed national policy to support cultural industries, and measuring the
 impact of cultural and sports investment; British Council, applying Swan and Nicolini’s research
 on tacit knowledge-management practices to an insourcing IT team, increasing service efficiency
 and saving £0.5m of operating costs; National Grid and Ofgem, applying Bradshaw’s research
 on energy security, shaping debates and approach to current N-1 assessment for supply
 security; ONS, using Moat and Pries’ research on big data’s use in predicting human behaviour,
 informing methodology for estimating tourism patterns using Flickr data; Home Office, applying
 Elias’s work being used to identify jobs on the Shortage Occupations List to inform visa-
 granting.

 Major global governments benefit from our research. The Brazilian government have used Moat
 and Pries modes of social media data analysis to address the Zika disease crisis. NGOs have
 benefited from our research, including Friends of the Earth (Bradshaw’s research on UK energy
 security was used in the fracking-prevention campaign at Kirby Misperton) and OECD (Battisti’s
 research on innovation economics was used to shape its innovation strategy, ‘Innovation in
 Firms: A Microeconomic Perspective’).

 4.3. Engagement with Diverse Communities

 Alongside enhancing economic competitiveness of UK corporates, our engagement with diverse
 communities through CoIs produces societal, health and economic benefits for socially
 disadvantaged or marginalised groups globally. Examples are:

 4.3.1. Regional
 Purcell’s work on transitions from education to employment (ESRC, £532k, 2014–17) resulted
 from collaboration with The Prince’s Trust, Coventry City Council, Progressive Employers Group,
 Coventry Youth Council and local schools to produce guides supporting young people in career-
 related decision-making. The Midlands Youth Labour Market Forum was also created, bringing
 together employers with statutory and voluntary sectors to promote joined-up policy-making for
 young people in the Midlands.

 4.3.2. National
 Many of our large-scale funded research programmes, commonly with other universities, focus
 on vulnerable populations. NIHR Research for Patient Benefit-funded research (Swan, Currie,
 £118k, 2020–21), with Oxford University’s Saïd Business School, supports new care models for
 the homeless. Dean is co-investigator on an AHRC-funded study with Queen Margaret
 University, Edinburgh (£56k, 2019–21) to reduce the women’s prison population. Stewart’s
 West Midlands Police and Crime Commissioner-funded study (£56k, 2017–19) provided and
 implemented officer-specific measures to reduce over-patrolling of ethnic-minority groups.

 Meanwhile, IER has a track record of research on work, welfare and public policy, and

                                                                                         Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 participation of diverse groups in the labour market. Its work programme on poverty and welfare
 benefits informed a White Paper on social security (Orton, funded by Trust for London, £313k,
 2017–21); its analysis of growth sectors for poverty reduction provided a detailed evidence base
 for what works in reducing poverty (Green, funded by ESRC, £195k, 2014–17); and it is
 supported by various large-scale funds (Big Lottery Fund, £217k, 2013–19; ESRC, £635k,
 2014–17).

 4.3.3. International
 Fernando worked with highly-skilled women and refugee/migrant communities and the
 government in Sri Lanka, to support capability and career development (supported by internal
 impact funds, £37k, 2017–20, and workload allocation of 30 per cent 2018-19). Barboni
 secured a fellowship from the University’s Institute for Global Sustainable Development (IGSD)
 (£60k, 2019–21) to support work with people living in poverty in Chhattisgarh, India, by
 delivering and evaluating the effectiveness of business-skills training for women. Bimrose and
 Brown helped low-educated adults across seven EU states better manage careers and working-
 life transitions (funded by CEDEFOP, £202k, 2014). Lyonette’s research shaped a public–
 private partnership intervention in India addressing skills gaps and social inclusion (ESRC,
 £330k, 2018–20). Currie (through an international network supported by NIHR Global Research
 funding of £1.5mn, 2017-2020) supported implementation of early intervention services for first
 episode psychosis in India, collaborating with the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)
 Delhi and the Schizophrenia Research Foundation (SCARF) Chennai.

 4.4. Contributions to Sustainability of Discipline

 As a leading UK business school, we are keen to sustain and enhance the research contribution
 of our discipline and its sub-disciplines, nationally and internationally, through our Subject
 Groups’ excellence, and to develop the very best peer-reviewed journals in which our faculty
 largely publish. Current faculty account for 82 editorships of special issues in this REF period.
 For example, our Information and Systems Management Subject Group has edited special
 issues of MIS Quarterly (Henfridsson, Yoo) and Information Systems Research (Henfridsson;
 Constantinides). We also have four Editors-in-Chief and 30 Senior/Associate Editors during the
 REF 2021 period, spread across all Subject Groups, including FT50 and/or world-elite
 publications, e.g. Journal of Management Studies (Patriotta), Journal of Management (Allen),
 Human Resource Management (Hayton), Information Systems Research (Henfridsson, Gopal,
 Nandhakumar), Journal of Banking and Finance (Bartram), Journal of Corporate Finance
 (Gamba, Gantchev), Journal of Operations Management (Johnson), Management Science
 (Stewart), MIS Quarterly (Oborn, Sandberg), Organization Studies (Currie, Fotaki, Reay,
 Swan). Meanwhile, Warhurst from IER chairs Human Relations journal’s Management
 Committee. 98 of our faculty hold editorial-board positions across 249 journals, focusing on
 FT50 and/or world-elite journals, e.g. Academy of Management Journal (Allen, Heracleous,
 Reay), Academy of Management Review (Denrell, Tsoukas), Administrative Sciences Quarterly
 (Reay), MIS Quarterly (Constantinides) Journal of Management (Hoque, Dittrich, Paroutis),
 Academy of Management Review (Denrell, Heracleous, Patriotta, Sandberg, Tsoukas),
 Journal of International Business Studies (Allen, Driffield, Reuer, Mellahi), Journal of Business
 Venturing (Lockett, Nicolaou, Ucbasaran), Organization Science (Heimeriks, Reay, Reuer)
 and Strategic Management Journal (Heimeriks, Reuer, Stadler).

 The high peer regard for our faculty’s interdisciplinary intellectual contributions is evidenced
 through Fellowships, spanning arts and sciences, including Battisti and Galvao (ONS);
 Bradshaw (Royal Geographical Society, Academy of Social Sciences); Chater (British

                                                                                               Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Academy, Association for Psychological Science, Cognitive Science Society); Bradshaw, Chen,
 Currie, Driffield, Grint, Reay and Rope (Academy of Social Science); Dean, Elias, Neelands,
 Roper and White (Royal Society of Arts); Doan, Moat, Preis, Strauss and Warhurst (Alan
 Turing Institute); Foss and Reuer (Strategic Management Society); Levina (AIS College of
 Senior Scholars); Glaister and Voss (British Academy of Management); Deineko, Chen and
 O’Brien (Operational Research Society); Rudd (Chartered Institute of Marketing); and Taffler
 (Chartered Financial Analyst Association of the UK). Our faculty regularly obtain best-paper
 prizes from renowned conferences and journals. Highlights include the Academy of
 Management Annual Meeting (Heracleous, Kiefer, Tsoukas), Strategic Management Society
 Conference (Liu, Denrell), Decision Analysis Publication Award (Stewart) and Journal of
 Management Scholarly Impact Award (Ucbasaran, Lockett).

 Taking our community obligations seriously, we encourage faculty to contribute to its
 governance. A number of staff are members of the ESRC (Donaghey, Driffield, Elias,
 Filippou, Fraser, Galvao, Gkeredakis, Johnson, McGivern, Mitchell, Thanassoulis,
 Warhurst) and/or EPSRC Peer Review College (Branke, Chen, Doan, Straus, Warhurst), and
 are/have been members of ESRC Research Committee (Bradshaw, Love), ESRC Grant
 Assessment Panel (Driffield, Roper), ESRC Data Infrastructure Strategic Advisory Committee
 (Moat), and other research commissioning groups, e.g. the NIHR Knowledge Mobilisation
 Research Fellowship Programme (Currie) and Royal Statistical Society (Elias). Staff have also
 participated in many international grant-awarding bodies’ commissioning panels, e.g. Irish Royal
 College of Physicians and Norwegian Research Council (both Burgess, Currie). The School
 contributes to the wider business and management academy through organising and hosting
 conferences. In 2017, we hosted the British Academy of Management’s annual conference and,
 in 2020, the 27th European Operations Management Association annual conference (held
 virtually). Individual faculty also play key roles in developing the community more widely. For
 example, Currie directs the CABS/BAM Development Programme for Directors of Research in
 UK business and management schools, and sits on the CABS Research and KEF Committees.
 Warhurst co-led the Review of Scottish Business Schools’ Fair Work Pedagogy in 2020,
 supported by the Scottish Funding Council and Scottish Government.

 4.5. Responsiveness to National and International Priorities

 Our Research Centres are important conduits for responding to national priorities. For example,
 ERC’s research supports economic-infrastructure development within which STEM research
 flourishes, by informing UK government’s Industrial Strategy and responding to contemporary
 events, e.g. Brexit and COVID-19 (Driffield, Fraser, Mole, Roper). It has informed policy on the
 possible benefit for the UK of retaining European legislation on Geographical Indications for
 products such as the Cornish pasty, and provided evidence to inform policymakers about firm
 dissolution and incorporation in COVID-19 (Roper, Mole). IER (led by Warhurst) is explicitly
 responsive to policy needs, with its funding secured mainly from UK government departments
 and EU agencies (see 3.1).

 Our responsiveness is showcased in our ongoing pandemic-related research, e.g. from the
 recent UKRI grant programme evaluating the impact of COVID-19 on working-class women
 (Lyonette, £46k, 2020–21), on household expenditure and savings (Stewart, £233k, 2020–21)
 and on the UK care-home sector’s finances (Fotaki, £353k, 2020–22); from the Health
 Foundation to examine the operational response of hospitals (£40k extension of pre-existing
 £400k research award to Burgess, 2020); from Innovate UK to address innovation challenges in
 SMEs (Roper with Oxford Brookes, £32k, 2020–21); from the NIHR-funded Policy Research

                                                                                          Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Unit on Behavioural Science led by University of Newcastle (Vlaev, £440k to Warwick, 2019–23)
 to provide evidence-based advice to NHS England through its COVID-19 Behaviour Change
 Unit to encourage policymakers to embed behavioural science into the national response (April
 2020–) and from ESRC IAA (Hoque, £15k, 2020–21) to support the All-Party Parliamentary
 Group for Disability’s work in encouraging a disability-inclusive government response to the
 pandemic. Faculty have also published rapidly on COVID-19, e.g. McGivern, Weidner and
 Croft on improvised innovation in British Medical Journal Leader, Lee on compliance with
 behavioural guidelines in PLOS One, Chater on dealing with uncertainty during and beyond
 COVID-19 in Nature Human Behaviour, and thought-leadership pieces in Core Insights and
 research reports from ERC (see 3.2.5). Our behavioural scientists have a leading role (Chater,
 Powdthavee, Vlaev) in the newly constituted interdisciplinary Global Institute for Pandemic
 Planning within the University, and with colleagues from mathematical epidemiology and public
 health, they conduct applied research and have advised government agencies, for example,
 providing evidence to government about releasing young people from lockdown measures
 (Powdthavee).

 Our response to international priorities can be set against the United Nations’ Sustainable
 Development Goals (SDGs). Derived from our CoIs (highlighted in Section 4.3.3), our research
 directly impacts SDG-3 Gender Equality and SDG-8 Decent Work and Economic Growth
 (Barboni, Bimrose, Brown, Fernando, Lyonette), and (in Section 4.1.1) SDG-11 Sustainable
 Cities and Communities (Beer, Neelands). Meanwhile, our Research Centres drive impact on
 SDG-3 Good Health and Well-Being (NIHR CLAHRC/ARC WM), SDG-8 Decent Work and
 Economic Growth (IER and IRRU), and SDG-9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure (ESRC
 ERC). Within IRRU, Donaghey and Reinecke’s research responds to SDG-8 to improve
 working conditions for women in Bangladeshi garment factories, with NGOs, Ethical Trading
 Initiative and ILO Better Work acting as conduits for research impact (supported by British
 Academy Small Research Grant, £10k, 2014–15). Additionally, the University’s GRP Energy,
 which the School leads, responds directly to SDG-7 Affordable and Clean Energy - see
 Bradshaw’s 2019 co-authored paper exhibiting the School’s interdisciplinary approach to
 societal challenges, published in Nature, which considers four geopolitical scenarios for 2030
 that could arise from the move to a low-carbon economy.

 Conclusion

 The School’s research strategy is fully aligned with the University’s Excellence with Purpose
 strategy, which provides a roadmap through to 2030. Our research is underpinned by our values
 of curiosity, openness, restlessness and excellence, with the School’s inclusive and supportive
 culture at the heart. Furthermore, our research strategy is sustained by our emphasis on
 recruitment and development of young talent, with the expectation that senior academic faculty
 provide research leadership to help develop the next generation of research leaders.
 Sustainability is further enhanced through our development of a virtuous relationship between
 acquisition of large-scale funding to support interdisciplinary research, in partnership with user
 organisations and other HEIs; institutional capacity building through leadership of University
 GRPs, and School Research Centres and Networks. In doing so, we are able to simultaneously
 generate world-leading academic publications and address societal grand challenges in a
 sustained and transformative way.




                                                                                            Page 31
