Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Huddersfield

 Unit of Assessment: UoA4 - Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context and structure
 Research in the Department of Psychology has never been more vital and exciting. The work we
 do is valued by our collaborators and funders and is having a positive impact on people’s lives,
 both nationally and internationally. Our growing research profile and confident outlook is
 reflected in our enhanced status within the University of Huddersfield. The Department of
 Psychology, located in the School of Human and Health Sciences (SHHS), emerged from the
 Department of Behavioural and Social Sciences to become an independent department in July
 2017. With the recruitment of a new Professor as Head of Department (Clough) and subsequent
 recruitment of several new early career academics, the department has been at the forefront of
 the university’s ambitious strategy to transform itself into a world-class, research-focused
 institution. The department now has two research centres, 35 members of academic staff
 supported by three dedicated psychology technicians and in the last five years has achieved a
 rapid growth in the number of postgraduate students at both masters and doctoral level.
 Psychologists are active researchers and research leaders with productive links across the
 University and fruitful collaborations with both national and international partners.

 Expansion and development since REF 2014
 In the 2014 REF exercise psychology researchers were incorporated into the University of
 Huddersfield’s submission to UoA 22 (Social Work and Social Policy). At that time, psychology
 staff were divided into two research centres: the Centre for Applied Psychological Research
 (CAPR) and the International Research Centre for Investigative Psychology (IRCIP), both under
 the overarching Institute for Research in Citizenship and Applied Human Sciences (IRCAHS).
 Psychology research has always been tightly integrated into the School’s multidisciplinary
 research strategy and psychologists have played a vital role in several key prioritised research
 areas, specifically child protection, vulnerable children and families; investigative psychology;
 long-term conditions, cancer and palliative care; mental health and wellbeing; reproductive and
 child health; and understanding and responding to crime.

 The research agenda set out in 2014 aimed to build on these established areas of strength, to
 continue the expansion of postgraduate taught (PGT) and postgraduate research (PGR) student
 numbers, and to identify new priority areas for growth in research that align to the most
 significant international and national drivers and the needs of research users (our School has a
 long-standing ethos of user engagement and participation in research, for example through our
 public partnership group). Psychology researchers have been crucial to the implementation and
 expansion of this agenda over the last six years.

 To strengthen our research in forensic psychology and child protection and to respond to
 external drivers (e.g., the Horizon 2020 “Secure societies” societal challenge, the UNICEF child
 protection agenda), two strategic appointments were made in 2016. Boduszek was promoted to
 Professor of Criminal Psychology and Wager was appointed to Reader in Forensic Psychology.
 Since then, Boduszek has played a key role in the cross-school None in Three project, initiated
 in 2016 and funded by the Global Challenges Research Fund (£4,303,604), P.I. Jones [UoA20],

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 which developed and employed innovative approaches to prevent domestic violence in the
 Caribbean (described in detail in one of the UoA4 impact case studies). The success of this
 research led to the establishment in 2017 of the None in Three Research Centre for the
 Prevention of Gender-Based Violence, a multi-disciplinary team of national and international
 experts who have expanded the reach of the research to also include India, Jamaica, Uganda,
 the UK and Brazil. None in Three was formally recognised as a University Research Centre in
 2020 and is now led by Wager.

 Investigative psychology has also continued to thrive and evolve since 2014, boosted by the
 recruitment of three early career academic staff (Pepelasi, Mojtahedi, and Hunt) and a
 successful MSc in Investigative Psychology. Following the departure of the Director of IRCIP, a
 new leadership team was appointed which steered the integration of investigative psychology
 into the university-wide Secure Societies Institute (SSI) which brings together experts in a range
 of disciplines including forensic science, architecture, digital forensics, policing and law to
 address a diverse set of security challenges, including terrorism and extremism, modern slavery,
 child sexual abuse and cyber crime. Two investigative psychologists originally from IRCIP,
 Ioannou and Synnott, are the Director and Associate Director of SSI respectively.

 A new direction for psychology research
 Following a School-wide review conducted after the 2014 REF exercise, a strategic decision was
 made to strengthen psychology as an independent research unit and to focus on cognition and
 neuroscience as a priority area for growth in psychology research. The aims included: to build
 upon existing strengths in applied cognitive science (Peebles, Reader in Cognitive Science
 since 2012, promoted to Professor in 2020); to grow further research in human factors and
 organisational psychology; and to develop new lines of inquiry in cognitive neuroscience that
 would augment existing research in the School. A significant investment by the University
 resulted in the appointment of a Professor of Applied Cognitive Psychology (Ward) and lecturers
 in organisational psychology (Parmak) and cognitive neuroscience (C Retzler) in 2014 and two
 further early career academics, Street in 2015 and Wilson in 2016. In the subsequent four
 years, five more early career academics (Duke, Hallam, Noyes, J Retzler and Vogt) with
 expertise in cognition, neuroscience and related fields also joined the department.

 With the critical mass of researchers in place, a new research centre, the Centre for Cognition
 and Neuroscience (CCN), was created also in 2020 with Peebles as its lead. The centre is
 vibrant and interdisciplinary, containing 13 academic staff and 34 postgraduate students and
 researchers, with experts in cognitive and behavioural science, artificial intelligence and
 neuroscience. CCN research comes under five primary themes: (i) human and machine face
 recognition, (ii) mechanisms of reward and addiction, (iii) cognitive processes of deception and
 lie detection, (iv) the neural underpinnings of cognition and emotion in healthy and brain
 damaged individuals, and (v) computational modelling of mechanisms and processes underlying
 learning, decision making and spatial cognition. Other research focuses on the atypical
 development of executive function and attention, health-related decision making, and using
 machine learning to screen for autism and dementia.

 The strategy has proved successful and research in the Centre is attracting grant income from a
 range of external sources, for example a project seeking to understand the cognitive
 mechanisms underlying people’s decision making when confronted by fraudulent text messages
 (Street, ESRC £125K) and a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (Street, Innovate UK, £159K)

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 which aims to develop the first evidence-based psychologically-informed cyber security training
 program in collaboration with a local business (Bob’s Business).

 A significant proportion of the research in CCN is funded by the UK Ministry of Defence. For
 example, staff have conducted projects investigating the viability of using computational
 cognitive architectures for the control of artificial autonomous agents (Peebles, £19K), modelling
 human performance of drone pilots (Peebles, £40K), investigating behavioural cues associated
 with loss of trust in complex socio-technical systems (Street, Noyes, Knights, Peebles, £158K)
 and optimising training schedules for Ministry of Defence personnel (Peebles, £71K). Other
 work funded by UK Government agencies conducted by members of this group has applied
 cognitive theory to accelerate coaching and improve the sensemaking of cyber security analysts
 (Ward, Wilson, Peebles £94K) and a project funded by the Department of Transport to identify
 cyber threats to autonomous vehicles (Parkinson, Ward, Peebles, £13K).

 Building upon existing strengths
 The Centre for Applied Psychological Research has continued to be the locus of most
 psychology research and is the larger of the two centres, consisting of 23 academic staff and 52
 postgraduate students and researchers. Research in CAPR comes under the two broad
 research themes that encompass the primary research areas outlined above: Criminal, Forensic
 and Investigative Psychology; and Health and Wellbeing.

 Researchers under the Criminal, Forensic and Investigative Psychology theme work with a wide
 range of national and international penal and criminal justice agencies such as the Ministry of
 Justice, the Police, HM Inspectorate of Prisons, Courts, Secure Mental Health Services and
 Probation services to investigate criminal and forensic psychology phenomena. Research
 includes psychopathy and criminal social identity (Boduszek) and restorative justice practices
 and sexual victimisation (Wager). Investigative psychology research focuses on geographical
 offender profiling and criminal personal narratives (Youngs), individualistic antecedents to
 offending and crime modelling (Ioannou, Sinnott), eyewitness behaviour (Mojtahedi), and
 deviant/atypical sexual expression, including serial offending (Wager) and murder (Boduszek).
 In the centre, forensic mental health expertise involves mental disorders and criminal behaviour
 including suicide, self-harm and sexual violence (Gavin, Hunt, D Kola-Palmer, Wager).

 Examples of work conducted by people in this group include a study into the prevalence and
 variation in antidepressant prescribing across Northern Ireland (Boduszek, funded by ESRC
 £137K). Working with community partners, academics in this group also work to evaluate
 interventions for victims of modern day slavery (Wager, funded by Thames Valley Police and
 Crime Commissioner £25,000), examine the effectiveness of preventive interventions against
 child sexual abuse and exploitation (Wager, funded by Barnardos and the Centre for Expertise
 into CSA, £14,630), quantify the scale of online-facilitated child sexual abuse (Wager, funded by
 the Independent Inquiry into CSA, £25,000) and explore the pathways leading to sexual
 revictimisation (Wager, funded by the British Academy, £10,000).

 Psychologists working in the Health and Wellbeing topic area investigate the psychological
 aspects of care, therapy, and wellbeing, health behaviour (Gomersall, S Kola-Palmer,
 Leeming), music and wellbeing in dementia (Shibazaki), end of life care practices (King), the
 relationship between engagement with nature and the natural environment and wellbeing (Burr,
 King) and mental toughness and resilience (Clough). These achievements have been matched

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by developments in methodological expertise with a focus on ethnographic and
 phenomenological approaches (Burr) and template analysis (King).

 Much of the health and wellbeing research conducted by psychologists in the department has
 continued to involve highly multidisciplinary cross-School collaboration. As a result, the research
 outputs of two psychology professors (Burr and King), as in previous REF exercises, is being
 included in the University’s UoA20 (Social Work and Social Policy) submission. The increased
 focus on research at all levels of the institution has resulted in a rich environment for
 collaborative research in the area of health and wellbeing—much of it within the School of
 Human Health Sciences. For example, in addition to psychologists, the None in Three project
 involves academics from sociology and behavioural science and the School of Art, Design and
 Architecture as well as a range of computer game design and development professionals.

 Research culture

 Research integrity
 In the development and conduct of our research we maintain adherence to high standards of
 research integrity according to University guidance which adheres to GDPR and the UK
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity and ensures research is conducted according to
 appropriate ethical, legal and professional frameworks, obligations and standards. Oversight is
 provided by the School Research Ethics and Integrity Committee (SREIC) and professional
 standards maintained through regular staff development training provided centrally in the
 University and through the active role of School Research Integrity Champions. All research
 activities in the School, without exception, require ethical consideration.

 Open Research
 The replication crisis currently affecting psychology has alerted the discipline to the limitations of
 certain methodological approaches and the importance of open, replicable science. One of our
 academics, Street has been particularly active in the replication debate, taking part in the Many
 Labs 2 initiative in 2018 in which 186 authors from 36 nations attempted to replicate 28 previous
 research findings with approximately 7,000 participants per study (Klein et al., 2018).

 We have made substantial progress towards creating an open research environment with regard
 to data, methods and research findings and are actively working towards full compliance with the
 UK Concordat on Open Research Data. We actively pursue a policy of open access to our
 research and encourage staff to integrate strategies into research proposals to maximise
 engagement with and use of research outputs by research users and different audiences. An
 increasing number of research projects in the department embrace the practice of pre-
 registration and open storage of research data on the Open Science Framework (e.g., J Retzler,
 Street, C Retzler, Mojtahedi) or PROSPERO (Mojtahedi). Experimental data and cognitive
 model code are also made available on GitHub (Peebles) and PGRs are encouraged to conduct
 research using the Human Connectome Project’s open source data set (e.g., Westerman).

 Research and impact strategy
 Psychology research at Huddersfield is having a significant positive effect on people’s lives, both
 here in the UK and in the wider world and these successes are a result of the research priorities
 and impact strategies implemented at the time of the last REF exercise. The quality of our
 research is also impressive, with SciVal data showing that 25% of our publications in the top
 10% journal percentiles by CiteScore percentile. The three Impact Case Studies for this UoA

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have been selected to illustrate the wide range of research activities Huddersfield psychologists
 are engaged in around the key areas of health and wellbeing (Shibazaki’s work employing
 music to improve the quality of life of people with dementia in the UK and Japan), domestic
 violence and child protection (Boduszek’s research using innovative methods to reduce
 domestic violence in the Caribbean), and forensic psychology (Roach’s work improving the
 identification of criminals in the UK and abroad by changing the approach police take to
 understanding criminal behaviour). These research areas continue to be priorities for
 psychology and the School.

 Having achieved the goals set out in REF 2014 and established Psychology as a strong,
 independent research community capable of producing its own REF submission, during this
 cycle we have developed a further set of strategic aims to underpin our work leading into the
 next REF after 2021. The departmental research strategy has been based around the
 identification of key research groupings within CCN and CAPR (listed above) with the intention
 of developing critical mass of methodological and domain expertise upon which a set of research
 priorities can be established. Research centre directors are tasked with devising strategic plans
 for achieving their research KPIs and are required to report five times a year to the School
 Research and Enterprise Committee (SREC). A key driver for research planning and
 development are the University’s Areas of Strategic Research Interest (ASRIs) which identify
 key research themes that will be focused upon across the institution. Cognition and
 Neuroscience has been identified as an ASRI to be established during 2020-2022 and there are
 a number of other current or emerging themes in which members of UoA4 are playing a key role,
 including Artificial Intelligence, Robotics and Mechatronics, Big data, Analytics and Visualisation,
 People Engagement and Psychology of Industry 4.0, Policing and Crime Reduction, Cyber
 Security and Mental Health. The University’s new National Health Innovation Campus and
 confirmed £45m investment in health research and innovation will also provide a focus and
 impetus for relevant psychology research. Our strategy therefore is to boost psychology
 research by integrating our key strength areas more tightly into the medium to long term
 research goals of the University in order to create a genuinely interdisciplinary research
 environment with close and productive links across the university and beyond. The underpinning
 strategic aims of our development plan are:
      To consolidate and grow our proven research excellence in forensic/investigative
          psychology, health and wellbeing, and cognition and neuroscience and continue to scan
          the horizon for new areas for research growth.
      To increase our capacity to do research by recruiting, developing and retaining high
          quality staff and PGRs and ensure its sustainability and relevance by attracting external
          funding and investment.
      To generate clear applications for our research and maximise its impact, influencing
          policy and practice and implementing these in collaboration with research users.
      To enhance external engagement with our research—both locally and internationally—by
          building partnerships and collaborating with research end users in pursuit of knowledge
          transfer opportunities and social/economic impact.
      To strengthen our research culture by integrating strategic objectives with individual
          research priorities and fostering an environment in which staff feel personally invested in
          the strategic development of the Department.
      To raise our research profile by increasing our public engagement activities and
          promoting the work of all staff.
      To strengthen our postgraduate provision by expanding postgraduate teaching related to

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        our areas of research strength and increasing training and support for PGRs.

 The University includes impact as an important aim in its Strategy Map. The School supports this
 aim through this Strategic Framework and through its External Engagement Strategy. We create
 an enabling environment for impact through:
     Engaging public stakeholders. Ensuring our research is accessible and understandable
        to our research users and beneficiaries;
     Building meaningful and mutually-beneficial research partnerships. Promoting
        responsible research, adapting to changing contexts, and supporting the translation and
        two-way transfer of knowledge and insight that comes from relationships built over time
        with our research users and beneficiaries;
     Co-production. Encouraging and enabling opportunities for impact to be built into the co-
        design and co-creation of all our research, engaging with our research users and
        beneficiaries from the start, and building on and extending our expertise in using different
        approaches and methods for achieving impact;
     Influencing. Building trusted relationships that maximise opportunities for change;
     Evidencing impact. Facilitating an accurate assessment of our impact activities so that
        we may nurture and sustain our knowledge exchange relationships (and support
        activities such as REF);
     Recognition and reward. Nurturing colleagues by sharing good practice, and recognising
        and celebrating our impact achievements;
     Strengthening capacity for impact. Actively recruiting academic staff who are known for
        generating impact beyond academia, ensuring a widespread understanding of the
        concept of impact, and supporting all members of the School to engage in activities that
        facilitate the positive impact of our research.

 The Associate Dean (Research & Innovation) is responsible for implementing this impact
 strategy within the School, supported by the School’s REF Unit of Assessment leads and Senior
 Research Fellows who, as part of their role, act as Impact Champions, leading Impact-related
 activities and supporting staff with collecting and evidencing impact. Furthermore, the School
 also benefits from the support from the University’s Impact Coordinator and has two co-Directors
 of External Engagement who provide regular updates at Research Group meetings on ways to
 achieve impact.
 2. People

 At the staff census date, UoA4 consisted of 33 Category A staff with submitted outputs, 51% of
 whom are female and all of whom belong to the Department of Psychology (apart from one who
 is a member of the Department of Biological and Geographical Sciences in the School of Applied
 Sciences). The submitted staff constitute 86.5% of academics in the Department of Psychology
 (some staff are being submitted to other UoAs) and includes 4 Professors, 4 Readers, 4
 Principal Lecturers, 18 Senior Lecturers and 3 Lecturers. Eleven members of staff obtained their
 PhD since the last REF census (all submitted staff hold doctorates) and four members of staff
 are currently classed as early career researchers (ECRs) according to the definition in the REF
 guidelines.

 Staffing strategy
 Our staffing strategy is directed by the strategic goals of the research centres devised with the
 Head of Department and in accordance with the overarching University strategy map and key


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 performance indicators. Our aim in developing Psychology at Huddersfield has been to nurture
 excellence in historical areas of strength while developing new priority areas which respond to
 contemporary national and international drivers and combine productively with other research in
 the School. This strategy has been implemented by the targeted recruitment of additional staff at
 all career levels to develop a critical mass by focusing expansion around a common core of
 activities and themes.

 Underpinning the support offered to academic staff is the core principle that although there is a
 set of strategic imperatives at all levels of the University, staff should retain autonomy over their
 research careers and should not feel compelled to pursue particular research goals purely to
 serve these strategic aims. Consequently, the strategic aims for UoA4 have emerged through
 the accommodation and integration of individual research agendas into medium- to long-term
 planning for the two research centres through a negotiated agreement on priority areas identified
 by the University ASRIs and other external drivers. In this way we have been able to foster an
 environment in which all staff feel personally invested in the strategic development of their
 subject area where they can play to their strengths while working towards shared goals that
 satisfy the agendas of the centre, School and University. This approach has been
 complemented by a strategy of targeted investment in recruitment and development to fuel the
 prioritised research areas.

 Recruitment and staff development
 The University has open and transparent recruitment and internal promotion procedures, with
 relevant guidance and documentation available on the University’s website. There is an annual
 call for applications for Principal Research Fellow, Reader and Professor and since the last REF,
 five psychology staff have been promoted to Reader or Professor (Burr, Street, Ioannou,
 Peebles, Youngs, Synnott). All academic staff are required to hold a Doctorate on
 appointment, or are supported to undertake one. For newly-appointed staff (and for staff who
 have recently completed a Doctorate) the School offers a structured induction programme and
 aspires to: one year of minimal teaching, tailored active research mentoring, and the possibility
 of a start-up financial package for consumables.

 The University adheres to the principles of the UK Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers and is committed—as recognised by the European Commission’s
 HR Excellence in Research Award—to the implementation of the European Charter for
 Researchers and Code of Conduct for the Recruitment of Researchers. The School actively
 encourages the inclusion of post-doctoral positions and PGR studentships in larger grant
 applications and seeks to award indefinite contracts whenever possible to Research Fellows.

 Support for academic staff
 All ECRs are required to identify primary affiliation to one research centre. Support for
 developing research is encouraged through bid training, mentoring, writing for publication
 workshops and writing buddies. Staff are encouraged to include ECRs on bids and where
 appropriate ECRs are encouraged to actively engage in leading on bids with support from senior
 staff. ECRs benefit from an allocation of dedicated research time according to the standard
 University workload allocation model. Staff, particularly early- and mid-career researchers and
 their line managers, strive together to manage non-research workloads, to protect allocated
 research time, and to prevent the use of research hours for the completion of other
 responsibilities.


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Workloads are monitored by Heads of Department and research workload allowances are based
 on prospective research performance, including quality of research output and salary offset from
 research grants, and individual career and research development plans. Allowances are agreed
 as part of the Personal Development and Performance Review (PDPR) process. Sabbatical or
 study leave is considered on a case-by-case basis in line with the University policy and specific
 School guidance and can be utilised for a wide range of research purposes. For example, in
 2014, Peebles used a one-term sabbatical to develop a new research project related to the
 visualisation of large data sets. The research was presented at a workshop on Cognitive Biases
 in Visualisations at an IEEE VIS conference in Paris and subsequently let to his involvement in a
 multinational €5.2M bid to the European Union Horizon 2020 programme in 2016 to develop a
 real-time big data visualisation system.

 Dedicated competitive research investment funding is available to all academic staff within the
 School (with positive action to encourage applications from early- and mid-career researchers)
 for staff development and strategic research investment. A proportion of the Research
 Investment Fund is allocated at least annually as competitive ‘seed corn’ funding to pave the
 way to the development of larger bids, such as to high quality competitive peer reviewed
 schemes (e.g., RCUK and NIHR) and programme grants. Psychologists have benefited from
 this fund to acquire new equipment to initiate research programmes. For example, in 2015,
 Peebles obtained £5K from the fund to purchase a NAO humanoid robot which has supported
 an ongoing cross-school collaborative project investigating reasoning by anomaly detection to
 improve planning robustness for autonomous robots in changing environments. In 2019, Hallam
 also obtained £5K to obtain equipment for transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) to
 support his research in cognitive neuroscience. The School has also been ready to respond
 rapidly to emerging needs, for example by providing funds to support research in response to
 the Covid-19 crisis (an initiative that was subsequently adopted University-wide), which,
 amongst other projects, supported a team of psychologists (Leeming, Shibazaki) to investigate
 how vulnerable older people in the community experience and cope with living under lockdown.

 A proportion of indirect costs associated with successful grants is returned to Research Centres
 to allow investigator-led investment in research support (this is in addition to fixed funding of £5k
 per annum to support the management of each Research Centre). The University also provides
 significant financial support to deliver its strategic aims of accelerating the growth and
 internationalisation of research in the form of its University Research Fund (URF) framework.
 During the current cycle, staff from UoA4 have been awarded a total of £392,639 from the URF,
 for example to support the creation of the Secure Societies Institute.

 Staff progression
 We support the development and career progression of existing staff at all stages of their
 research career through research training, mentoring and tailored coaching (e.g., through the
 ‘research buddy’ scheme) to support research career progression and by actively developing
 opportunities for staff to gain first-hand experience in research.

 Research training is delivered at both School and University levels and there is a clear interface
 to ensure coordination, consistency and quality. All staff, in particular early- and mid-career
 researchers, are also able to access postgraduate research training courses and relevant
 Masters modules. Executive level management training is available to research leaders

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Professors and non-professorial Research Centre Directors) through the Chartered
 Management Institute. To date, 59 staff across the School (11 from the Department of
 Psychology) have undertaken leadership training with the Chartered Management Institute to
 ensure they have the skills and knowledge to lead on research.

 All staff undertake an annual Personal Development and Performance Review (PDPR) with a
 senior researcher to allow critical self-reflection of research plans and performance (on income,
 outputs and impact) and unmet training and support needs. Review outcomes feed into clear
 performance targets and help to inform research workload allocation. We are exploring the
 potential benefits of all staff maintaining a 3-5-year research plan as part of PDPR and the
 development and nurturing of an international research profile will be an expectation.

 The School recognises and rewards staff for research through promotions and increased
 allocation of time for research in response to proven performance (e.g., grant capture and
 publications). Staff Development funds are available to support training and academic
 conference attendance with priority given to ECRs and newly research active staff. In line with
 the University’s commitment to become an environmentally sustainable institution, staff are
 required to provide an environmental impact statement and consider alternatives to flights where
 possible when applying for funds.

 Support for postgraduate research students
 Developing interest in postgraduate research
 We aim to support research across the whole potential span of a career, from undergraduate to
 professor, as this not only strengthens the psychology research community but also supports the
 recruitment of PGT and PGR students. The research culture that we have communicated at
 undergraduate level cultivates interest in our postgraduate programmes. Specific initiatives we
 have put in place to create this culture include the establishment of an undergraduate
 intermediate level “Research Apprenticeship” module which provides an early introduction to the
 practical skills necessary to execute a piece of research supervised by a member of staff, the
 creation of an online publication (“PsychTalk”), edited by undergraduates and staff which covers
 a range of topics, including research, and the opening up of research centre seminars to
 undergraduate students as well as postgraduates and staff. Undergraduate students are also
 always invited to attend the annual “Engage” PGR Research Conference which is led and
 organised by PGR students in the School. In a recent cross-School research project
 investigating inclusion in higher education led by member of UoA4 (Tobbell) all students—from
 first year undergraduates to final year PhD students—in SHHS were invited to collaborate with
 the academic staff to collect and analyse data. Overall, 251 students from SHHS participated in
 the research and responded to statements which elicited their subjective meanings of inclusion
 (Tobbell et al., 2020).
 Developing a postgraduate community
 We foster a vibrant PGR community, seeking close alignment with Research Centre themes and
 we aspire to providing world-class PGR training, mentoring and coaching. The primary focus in
 postgraduate researcher (PGR) recruitment is on quality and secondary focus on relevance and
 fit, in order to maximise the chances of timely and successful completion. We maintain an active
 pipeline of excellence from our undergraduate programmes, through our postgraduate taught
 programmes (MSc Psychology and MSc Investigative Psychology), to PGR and subsequent
 academic posts. Four current members of academic staff in Psychology (Daly, Ali, Hunt, and

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Mojtahedi) have made the journey from a Huddersfield undergraduate psychology course while
 one (Tzani-Pepelasi) has progressed from a Huddersfield MSc degree. PGRs are also able to
 access financial support from the University Research Fund to apply for a fast-track PhD bursary
 and during the current cycle two PGRs from UoA4 have made successful applications. Each
 year the School and the University offer highly competitive fee waivers and scholarships for
 exceptional candidates. The School also offers a number of external PhD scholarships (this
 year supporting specifically projects initiated by by ECRs) and has supported three PGR
 students (including two psychology PGRs) through the University Alliance Doctoral Training
 Alliance, involving a fee-waiver bursary of £15K p.a. and access to training at Alliance
 Universities.

 We offer a personalised research training programme to each PGR student via their supervisory
 team, and via a coordinated programme of research training which is delivered within the School
 (research ethics and integrity and discipline-specific training to support the programme) and at
 University level (generic transferable skills training, to support independence and employability
 e.g., knowledge exchange, impact and citizen engagement). All applicants are interviewed as
 part of the admission process and if successful, start their studies with a structured induction,
 including a skills plan and training development needs assessment is used to identify skills,
 training, development and support needs. This is reviewed and updated through the SkillsForge
 system, regular supervision and at key progression points. Each element of PGR training is
 mapped to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework to ensure coverage and to avoid
 duplication.

 In common with our staff, all psychology PGRs are associated with and treated as members of
 one of the two research centres and are encouraged to fully engage with activities in order to
 ensure strong support from active researchers and opportunities for peer mentoring. PGR
 students are also encouraged and expected to attend the monthly Journal Club meetings,
 deliver research seminars, and contribute to the School seminar series organised by PGR
 students. Internal presentations are a condition of receipt of funding for external conferences.
 Psychology PGRs are also strongly encouraged to organise and present at the annual PGR-led
 School Engage research conference and at the annual University-wide PGR conference. In
 addition, the University Research Environment Development Fund has provided support to
 groups of PGRs in SHHS to organise day conferences and seminars on topics such as food
 poverty and measuring crime seriousness.

 Many PGR activities are student-led. We maintain meaningful pathways to consultation with
 PGR students and have PGR student representation both on SREC and on the PGR committee.
 We encourage regular informal meetings of the PGR community in addition to online
 engagement. The PGR community also manages its own research seminar series. There has
 also been a concerted drive to foster an active and vibrant research culture in the department by
 supporting postgraduate students to work together in developing a community through various
 research oriented activities. This has recently borne fruit when a group of our Psychology PGRs
 successfully bid for and hosted the prestigious 33rd British Psychological Society annual
 Psychology Postgraduate Affairs Group (PsyPAG) conference over 4 days in summer 2018.
 Supervision and career development
 During the last REF cycle, staff in the UoA have supervised 28 (PhD) doctoral level students and
 38 masters level students to successful completion. They have also examined 23 doctoral level


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students at other institutions (three international) and 3 masters level students during this period.

 Supervision sessions are held at least once per month on average for full time students and
 records of these meetings documented including agreed actions, responsibilities and timelines.
 The broad range of disciplines and methodological expertise across the School ensures that
 PGR students can receive the benefits of multidisciplinary supervisory teams and are able to
 consult directly with staff who hold identified research expertise in an advisory capacity. We offer
 pastoral support to all PGR students and work actively with disability support services to ensure
 that our provision takes full account of the needs of students with personal learning support
 plans. Maintaining a high level of supervision and support (e.g., wellbeing, financial hardship,
 technology etc.) during the pandemic has been a key priority for the University. Annual student
 progression reviews (or biennial for part-time students) are carried out by academic staff (both
 internal and external), independently of the supervision team. PGR student progress is
 monitored via the University Postgraduate Progressions Board which highlights anomalies to the
 Director of Graduate Education.

 We expect and support all PGR students, particularly those benefitting from fee waiver or
 scholarship, to write for publication. Participation at national and international conferences is
 encouraged and supported through the postgraduate research student support fund, which
 provides additional financial support for project, travel and other costs. We plan to implement an
 annual competitive PGR award across our Research Centres.

 For 2019 the level of satisfaction with PGR supervision in SHHS as recorded by the
 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) was 82.8%. We use all of the data provided
 by the PRES to improve the PGR function and student experience and we are exploring the
 introduction of confidential annual progress reviews by supervisors and self-evaluation reviews
 by students.

 Equality and diversity
 In line with University policy, we actively strive to achieve an inclusive culture and are committed
 to enhancing equality and diversity at all levels and we take positive action to maximise the
 chances of recruiting, promoting and allocating the best person for any particular role. All staff
 are required to undertake training on diversity and unconscious bias with addition training for
 staff reviewing outputs and preparing the REF submission. We seek to review all research-
 related policies and procedures and recruitment/promotions data annually and highlight
 anomalous trends for action.

 Through an Equality Impact Assessment, differences between the Unit as a whole and staff
 identified as SRR/IR for gender, nationality, ethnicity, disability, sexual orientation, religion, age
 and marital status were negligible. Output selection followed a common approach according to
 the University's REF Code of Practice, that sought to minimise bias by involving multiple internal
 and external reviewers on the same output, whilst ensuring staff representation across the
 submission. Due to the relatively small number of required outputs, we did not need to judge
 outputs based on the final criterion in the Code of Practice, namely: choosing outputs to ensure
 diversity of the staff is represented as far as possible. 51.5% of the psychology staff submitted
 to the REF identify as female and 42.3% of the publications submitted are from female staff.
 Our current eligible staff also includes 12% who identify as BAME and 9% with a declared
 disability.


                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 School staffing policies support flexible working, career breaks and part-time working and we
 seek to accommodate carers’ responsibilities whenever practicable. Academic vacancies are
 advertised as suitable for job share, part-time or flexible working, in order to enable a balance of
 work and home requirements. The duties of those on parental leave are fully covered (also for
 some time after return, with accommodation of the needs of breastfeeding mothers). The
 School also strives to support staff and students with disabilities and has a set of policies and
 procedures in place to ensure that people with disabilities are actively recruited, supported in
 their development and progression and are able to thrive in an inclusive and accessible
 environment.

 The School subscribes to, or actively aspires to join, a range of external equality and diversity
 initiatives, either at University level or at School level, in order to guide and sustain best practice:
       The University participates in ‘Every Researcher Counts’ to improve equality and
          diversity for researchers in HE
       The University has an implementation plan that aligns with the UK Concordat to Support
          the Career Development of Researchers, the European Charter for Researchers and
          Code of Conduct for their Recruitment, UK Quality Code for HE, and the Vitae
          Researcher Development Framework
       The University is a signatory to the Advance HE Race Equality Charter.
       The University is recognised as a Disability Confident Employer at Level 2, which covers
          the themes “Getting the right people for your business” and “Keeping and developing
          your people”.
       The University has received the organisational Athena Swan Bronze Award and the
          School is actively working towards a School-level award.
       The University is a Stonewall Diversity Champion and has an active LGBTQI+ Staff
          Network.

 The School is establishing a new Equality and Diversity champions group linked to the University
 Equality, Diversity Inclusion Enhancement committee to oversee, advocate for, and provide
 guidance on equality and diversity issues across the School and support the School’s shared
 commitment to systemic change. The School is proactive in its commitment to promoting
 equality through enabling leadership potential and career progression of under-represented
 groups. For example, the University is a member of the Advance HE Aurora development
 programme for women. In addition, the University’s BAME Staff Network represents the interests
 of BAME staff across the University and the School has instituted a new annual ‘Race’ lecture
 held as part of our Black History Month programme of events, which have previously attracting
 audiences of 300+ from the local community.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Members of the UoA are active bidders and have achieved considerable success in generating
 external research and enterprise income on a competitive basis. Over the current REF cycle we
 have secured increasing amounts of external funding year on year with a total spend to date of
 £594,856 over the REF period. Bids have traditionally focused on non-UKRI funding sources
 such as the Ministry of Defence and The Wellcome Trust, but UoA members have also
 successfully submitted to UKRI funders. Our members seek out alternative funding streams, with
 one member (Street) being awarded the first Knowledge Transfer Partnership contract for the

                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 School. Early Career Researchers in the UoA are already strong in bidding activity and the
 department has sought to harness this research mindset to attract new talent and promote
 contract bidding. In addition, staff in the UOA have also secured funding from a range of non-
 HESA-recognised sources. This funding includes £2k in Santander Mobility Awards to support
 the development of collaborative links with international institutions (Peebles). Examples of
 research grant awards from UoA members are selected to indicate the range and diversity of
 income streams during the REF period include:
      None in Three (India, Jamaica, Uganda) A Centre for the Development, Application,
        Research and Evaluation of Prosocial Games for the Prevention of Gender-based
        Violence. (Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF)/AHRC, £4,303,604, Boduszek,
        Gomersall, P.I. Jones [UoA20])
      None in Three: the prevention of domestic violence in the Caribbean, Barbados and
        Grenada. (European Union, €400,000, Boduszek, P.I. Jones [UoA20])
      Study on Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices on Violence against Children in Tanzania.
        (UNICEF, £282,082, Boduszek, P.I. Jones [UoA20])
      Using genetic and environmental risks to understand variation in social, emotional, and
        educational outcomes in individuals with language impairments. (ESRC, £200,000,
        Clough)
      Knowledge transfer partnership between Bob’s Business and University of Huddersfield.
        (Innovate UK and Bob’s Business, £158,747, Street)
      A computational model of lie detection in SMS scams. (ESRC, £124,523, Street)
      Prevalence and variation in antidepressant prescribing across Northern Ireland. (ESRC,
        £136,971, Boduszek)
      Risk factors and outcomes associated with postoperative delirium after cardiac surgery.
        (Kolegium Nauk Medycznych, Rzeszow, Poland, £70,000, Boduszek)
      Personalised training using the Predictive Performance Equation. Defence Science and
        Technology Laboratory. (Ministry of Defence, £56,300, Peebles)
      Evaluation of ‘Past Times’. (Reaching Communities Fund, £40,000, Leeming)
      Understanding the cyber threat to autonomous vehicles. (Crown Commercial Service (on
        behalf of the Department for Transport), £30,000, Peebles)
      Autonomous agents. Defence Science and Technology Laboratory. (Ministry of Defence,
        £39,779, Peebles)
      Abusing the man in the middle: Investigating the causes, effects, and coping strategies of
        referee abuse. FIFA and International Centre for Sport Studies (CIES, $15,000,
        Mojtahedi)
      Impact of sport on wellbeing. (Independent Schools Council, £10,000, Clough)
      Gender, sexuality, identity and memory: A psychogeographical study of Kirklees with the
        LGBT community. (British Academy/Leverhulme, £6,337, Gomersall, Bridger)

Strategies for generating future income
Huddersfield psychologists are well placed to respond to the UK Government’s grand challenges
related to AI and big data and the ageing society and a key priority for the department going
forward is to plan and invest so that psychology can play a leading role in the wider School and
University strategies aimed at responding to these challenges. Psychologists in the department
are already using machine learning to screen for dementia and autism (Peebles, J Retzler) and
to analyse large datasets for neuroscience research (Hallam, C Retzler), while others are being
proactive in forging collaborative relationships with other health professionals to develop new
research programmes in mental health and wellbeing. The University’s new National Health

                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Innovation Campus and confirmed £45m investment in health research and innovation will
 further boost these strategic plans. In addition, we will continue to support the expansion of the
 world-leading international research into gender-based violence within the None in Three
 Research Centre and now led by Huddersfield psychologists (Wager). Our key strategy is to
 maintain our success in securing external funds form a variety of sources to support areas of
 strength while horizon scanning and identifying new sources of income, such as NIHR, the third
 sector and industry, to target other aspects of the UK grand challenges.

 Infrastructure and research facilities
 Information infrastructure
 Psychology research is supported by a wide range of information systems. The University uses
 the PURE research database to record all research activity and the Scopus abstract and citation
 database as a main source of performance measures. Psychology staff and students have
 access to a wide range of research databases including PsycINFO, PsycArticles and PubMed
 and a dedicated subject librarian to support their research. The research bidding process is
 supported by several systems, including the Pre-Award/Post-Award (PAPA) and Agresso
 financial information systems, Microsoft Dynamics for resource planning and customer
 relationship management, and the Peer Review of Research Applications Management System
 (PRAMMS) which manages the mandatory internal peer review of all research bids. The
 University also employs the SkillsForge system to help PGRs manage progression and skills
 training.
 Management infrastructure and processes
 Research in SHHS is supported by a number of groups, committees and services that help to
 drive, monitor, coordinate and govern activity. These include:
      The School Research and Enterprise Committee (SREC) including Professors, Heads of
         Department, the School Diversity and Inclusion Champion, Associate Deans and
         representation from Readers, academic and professional services staff, ECRs and
         PGRs. SREC reports into the School Leadership Team and the University Research and
         Enterprise Committee and is responsible for interpreting central policies, procedures and
         guidance into the School and for delivering the School research strategy.
      The School Research and Ethics and Integrity Committee (SREIC) reports into SREC
         and the University Research Group (which is responsible for strategic and policy matters
         in relation to research at the University) and is responsible for delivering good research
         governance across the School. SREIC reviews and oversees all research conducted in
         the School and maintains the School’s research governance policies.
      The University-wide Graduate Board is responsible for PGR policy and reports to the
         University Research Committee. The School Postgraduate Research Committee is
         responsible for delivering the School PGR function and reports into SREC and the
         Graduate Board.
      In addition to supporting the School’s PGR function, the Research Support Office
         (comprising a wider group of School- and University-based professional services staff)
         offers personalised, seamless, end-to-end research support from idea, through funding,
         to exploitation (including research intelligence, grant-writing, budgeting, ethics, marketing
         and contracting).
      The School augments the dedicated support delivered by central Research and
         Enterprise in its provision of specific administrative support for research management
         and governance, including the PGR administrative function, performance monitoring, and

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        event management.
       The REF Management Group reports into SREC and is responsible for delivering on the
        School REF agenda.


 Physical infrastructure and research facilities
 The University’s confidence in, and continued support for, psychology research has recently
 been demonstrated by its commitment to invest in a new premises for Psychology which will
 include new laboratory space and other research facilities. It is expected that psychology will
 also play a key role in the University’s confirmed £45m strategic investment in health research
 and innovation, with additional investment in facilities which will form part of a new University-
 wide National Health Innovation Campus.

 The Psychology Department currently has three laboratories for teaching and research: an eye
 tracking laboratory, a neuroscience and biopsychology laboratory and a virtual reality laboratory.
 We also hold 64 psychometric tests for the measurement of a wide range of cognitive skills and
 knowledge, abilities, attitudes, personality traits and educational achievements.
 Eye tracking laboratory
 The eye tracking laboratory is equipped with an SMI 250 Hz Remote Eyetracking Device and an
 SMI 60Hz Eyetracking Glasses 2 wireless system. In addition to own devices, psychologists
 also have access to a Tobii Pro/x3-120 desktop eye tracker and a Tobii Pro Glasses 2 wearable
 eye tracker maintained by the 3M Buckley Innovation Centre, a centre for enterprise and
 innovation for businesses situated at the University.
 Neuroscience and biopsychology laboratory
 The neuroscience and biopsychology laboratory is equipped with a range of devices for
 electroencephalography research, including a BrainAmp 64 channel amplifier and an actiCap 64
 channel electrode system and an EGI 64 channel amplifier and 64 channel electrode system.
 The lab also has a NeuroConn DC stimulator plus for Transcranial Direct-Current Stimulation
 (tDCS) research. For biopsychology research, the laboratory contains 28 Biopac MP36 systems
 for taking physiological measurements such as GSR, ECG and respiration rate and cold pressor
 for measuring pain tolerance.
 Virtual Reality laboratory
 The VR Laboratory is equipped with a range of high specification hardware and related software
 for research into spatial cognition and cognitive neuroscience and for understanding human
 behaviour in virtual reality environments. This includes a gaming PC with a dedicated VR ready
 graphics card and expanded memory, a HTC Vive VR headset and an Oculus Rift DK2 VR
 headset. The lab also has an Emotive EPOC Electroencephalography headset device designed
 for human brain research in experimental designs using VR headsets for brain computer
 interfaces and other cognitive neuroscience research.
 Queensgate Grid HPC cluster
 Psychology researchers have access to—and have extensively used—the University’s high-
 performance computing cluster, maintained by the School of Computing and Engineering, to run
 computationally intensive cognitive models.




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Postgraduate facilities
 Since REF 2014, the School has invested in a state-of-the-art PGR suite and provides dedicated
 administrative support for the PGR function in addition to any central support from the Graduate
 School. PGR students are provided with dedicated shared office space with workstations
 (although this has had to be suspended since the Covid-19 pandemic), storage for personal
 belongings, quiet areas, an interview/meeting room with data projection facilities, a room for
 private study, a kitchen area and an adjacent relaxation room. PGR students have access to
 free printing. Viva voce examinations are conducted whenever possible in the familiar School
 research meeting room.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Contributions to the economy and society
 Our research seeks to maximise impact by working collaboratively to develop knowledge that
 informs policy and practice and supports professionals and citizens to bring about lasting
 changes in society. For example, Wager has produced several independent reports for the
 Government and institutions such as the Thames Valley Office of the Police and Crime
 Commissioner relating to various forms of exploitation, one of which has recently been identified
 by the Independent Anti-slavery Commissioner as being influential in developing a new service
 for victims of modern slavery. Wager has also worked extensively with Elmore Community
 Services for people with complex needs in the Thames Valley region. Elmore developed a new
 support service for adult survivors of child sexual exploitation (CSE) in the wake of Operation
 Bullfinch which had uncovered a large CSE ring in Oxfordshire. Wager created an evaluation
 framework at the outset of the new service and continues to assist by conducting evaluations
 and acting as a member on board of trustees. Wager has also recently submitted responses to
 two Government consultations on gender-based violence and justice for adult survivors of child
 sexual abuse. Mojtahedi was a consultant for a report on improving witness testimony
 published by the Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology in 2019 and has also
 produced a commissioned report for FIFA on the causes and health consequence of football
 referee abuse and to make policy recommendations. S Kola-Palmer’s research has led to a
 number of policy and practice changes within the Rugby Football League Super League to
 welfare provision. As a result, all Super League clubs are now recommended to have a full time
 Player Welfare Manager (PWM). The PWMs are better trained and supported in their own
 welfare and are able to more fully support the welfare needs of the players. In addition,
 psychologists in the departments are making increasing use of public engagement (e.g.,
 “Psychologist in the Pub” and “Café Scientifique” Street), social and public media (e.g., The
 Conversation (e.g., Wager, Pepelasi, Mojtahedi, Gomersall) and a Huddersfield Psychology
 Twitter feed) to promote and disseminate our work. Clough’s extensive research into mental
 toughness has been utilised by several educational institutions (e.g., The National Collaborative
 Outreach Programme, Hull Business school) and local authorities (e.g., Doncaster, Wigan) to
 develop programmes for developing mental toughness in individuals.

 Contributions to the research base, economy and society
 The achievements of psychology staff have been recognised by prizes and awards. In 2016
 Wager’s paper “Understanding children’s non-disclosure of child sexual assault: Implications for
 assisting parents and teachers to become effective guardians” was selected by the Emerald
 Literati Network Awards for Excellence as a Highly Commended Paper while in 2019 Street
 received an APS Rising Star Award from the US Association for Psychological Science.



                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoA4 staff are embedded in wide international research communities and benefit from an active
 and fruitful set of publishing and bidding collaborations with other researchers and labs
 worldwide. SciVal data shows that 39% of psychology publications were co-authored with
 researchers in other countries. Examples of national collaborations involving either publication
 or grant application submission include the universities of Edinburgh (Hallam), Newcastle,
 Warwick (Bagri), Cardiff (Wager), Sussex (Peebles), Nottingham (C Retzler), Manchester
 (Murphy), Birkbeck (Peebles), Imperial (Murphy), Sheffield (Hallam), Cambridge (Murphy),
 Oxford (C Retzler), Glasgow (C Retzler), York (Hallam) and UCL (Street).

 International collaborations involving either publication or grant application submission include
 the universities of Copenhagen (Street), UBC in Canada (Street), Salamanca (Street), Ulm
 (Duke), Padova, Texas at Dallas (Noyes), Bonn (Duke), Melbourne, Amsterdam (Street),
 Utrecht (Murphy), New South Wales, Zurich, George Mason University (J Retzler) and Padova
 (Hallam).

 The expertise of staff in the UoA is regularly called upon to review grant applications for major
 national and international research funding bodies including ESRC, European Commission
 Horizon 2020, National Institute for Health Research, Medical Research Council, Polish National
 Science Centre, EPSRC, The Royal Society, Israel Science Foundation, US National Science
 Foundation, The Leverhulme Trust, The Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research,
 Chinese Academy of Sciences, and Autistica.

 In addition to the above activity, all staff are committed to providing service to the wider
 discipline of psychology. During the submission period, psychology staff have conducted 31
 invited keynote presentations at various conferences and meetings. Staff in the UoA have also
 served on editorial boards for a number of prestigious national and international journals,
 including the Journal of Interpersonal Violence, the Journal of Investigative Psychology and
 Offender Profiling (Ioannou), the Journal of Experimental Psychology: Applied (Peebles), the
 Journal of Human Lactation (Leeming), the Internet Journal of Restorative Justice (Wager), the
 Journal of Education and Learning (Tobbell), EC Psychology and Psychiatry (Synnott,
 Ioannou), the Journal of Criminal Psychology (Boduszek), Frontiers in Psychology (Cognitive
 Science) (Peebles), Deviant Behavior (Boduszek), the Journal of Criminal Justice (Boduszek),
 PLoS ONE (Boduszek), the Polish Psychological Bulletin (Boduszek), Current Issues in
 Personality Psychology (Boduszek), and Topics in Cognitive Science (Peebles). Staff in the
 UoA also regularly review manuscripts for international and national journals. The headings
 below reflect the main strengths of the department.

 Forensic/criminal psychology
 Homicide Studies; Aggression and Violent Behavior; The Journal of Forensic and Legal
 Medicine; Journal of Criminal Psychology; Victims and Violence; Contemporary Social Science;
 Criminal Justice and Behavior; Violence Against Women; Psychology, Crime and Law; The
 Police Journal: Theory, Practice and Principles; Journal of Forensic Psychiatry and Psychology

 Health and wellbeing
 Paediatrics and International Child Health; BMC Systematic Reviews; British Journal of Health
 Psychology; Trials; Chronic Illness; Health & Quality of Life Outcomes; Human Lactation;
 Maternal & Child Nutrition; Psychology & Health; Acta Oncologica; Pain Medicine; Psychiatry
 Research; European Journal of Pain; Annals of Behavioral Medicine; Journal of Psychosomatic

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Obstetrics & Gynecology; British Journal of Health Psychology; Women’s Health Issues; British
 Journal of Cancer; Neuropsychiatric Disease and Treatment

 Cognition and neuroscience
 Cognitive Science; Human Factors; Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory and
 Cognition; Journal of Experimental Psychology: Applied; Current Directions in Psychological
 Science; Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology; Topics in Cognitive Science; The
 International Journal of Human-Computer Studies; Computational and Mathematical
 Organization Theory; Psychological Research; Interacting with Computers; Addiction, Drug and
 Alcohol Dependence; Frontiers in Psychology (Cognitive Science).

 Miscellaneous
 Personality and Individual Differences; The Journal of Personality; Frontiers in Psychology;
 Journal of Sport Sciences; PLoS ONE; Qualitative Research; Qualitative Research in
 Psychology; Gender, Place and Culture; Feminism & Psychology; The Irish Journal of
 Psychology; Journal of Psychological Applications; Journal of European Psychology Students;
 Aggression and Violent Behaviour; British Journal of Social Work; Frontiers in Psychology;
 Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin; British Educational Research Journal.




                                                                                        Page 18
