Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Sheffield Hallam University
 Unit of Assessment:
 UOA24 - Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism
 1. Unit context, structure, research, and impact strategy

 Overview

 Our mission is to deliver excellent applied research which makes a difference to the lives, and
 particularly the quality of life, of individuals and communities. Through the creation of the Sport
 and Physical Activity Research Centre (SPARC) and the Advanced Wellbeing Research Centre
 (AWRC), expansion into a new £14 million facility, and a strategy that prioritises researcher
 support and development, we have grown research in scale and quality and fostered an
 environment where research excellence flourishes.

 Indicators of our significant achievements include i) growth in research, knowledge transfer and
 consultancy income - from £11.7m in REF 2014 to £16.8m in REF 2020, as well as attracting an
 additional £14m in capital investment; ii) growth in research activity - with a doubling of the number
 of staff returned in this submission compared to REF 2014 from 34 to 67, plus a doubling in
 doctoral completions from 36 to 71.

 Structure

 Our submission represents a large group of researchers who have had impact nationally and
 internationally, influencing interventions and policy in sport, physical activity (PA) and health, and
 leisure, tourism and hospitality sectors.

 The Unit comprises 67 staff (64.1 fte), contributing 149 research outputs and five impact case
 studies (ICS). The Unit sits within two University research institutes: Health Research Institute
 (HRI) and Social and Economic Research Institute (SERI) - see Institutional Environment
 Statement - with three internal structures providing departmental identity. First, the Sport and
 Physical Activity Research Centre (SPARC), which is the research hub for the Academy of Sport
 and Physical Activity. Second, the Department of Service Sector Management (SSM), which
 includes staff from tourism, events and hospitality management. Third, the AWRC (opened in
 2019) which is a specialist interdisciplinary centre of excellence. AWRC is the centrepiece of the
 new Olympic Legacy Park and consists of a large cross-disciplinary team, with a range of
 specialisms including sports engineering, sports science, public health, materials engineering,
 software development and psychology. SPARC launched in May 2019, fulfilling an ambition of
 integrating all core sport-related research. SPARC’s predecessors and SSM have a heritage of
 delivering excellent research and impact extending back decades. Within the units of SPARC,
 SSM and AWRC, the following groups detail the intellectual focus and critical mass of our research
 across the Unit.

 Research Groups

 Physical Activity, Health and Wellbeing brings together research from a range of discipline
 areas including behavioural psychology, exercise physiology and nutrition. Our expertise lies in
 research aligned to PA programming, and the design and evaluation of interventions to support
 behaviour change across clinical and community settings. We have successfully applied research
 to support people to lead healthy and active lives through the prevention and treatment of a range
 of chronic diseases, including multiple sclerosis (Carter, ICS5), systematic sclerosis (Klonizakis),
 obesity (Copeland), cardiovascular disease and stroke (Nichols, Shafizadeh), and mental health
 (Myers). Our cancer research (Bourke, ICS4; Humphreys) has developed cutting-edge
 interventions in the field of pre- and rehabilitation using PA programming and counselling, leading
 to additional support from major cancer charities, including Macmillan and Yorkshire Cancer
 Research. Another strand of expertise relates to exercise behaviour and psychology (Breckon,
 Jones). Notable examples of our success include the Sheffield National Centre for Sport and
                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Exercise Medicine (NCSEM, £10m capital grant during the REF 2014 census period) leading to
 successful community programmes such as Move More, and the follow-on funding we received to
 develop the AWRC (£14m funded by the Department of Health & Social Care (DoHSC) and
 European Regional Development Fund (ERDF)). Other significant funding for this group includes
 the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR, £2.5m) and Innovate UK (£270k).

 Our Sports Engineering and Sport Science research, which spans several interconnected
 disciplines, focuses on improving sports performance and coaching, alongside understanding
 athlete health and reducing injury risk. We have a globally leading strength in research relating to
 motor learning and sports coaching - ecological dynamics (Davids, Stone, Shafizadeh, Rothwell)
 - and our work in this area has changed the practice of sports coaches and organisations nationally
 and internationally (ICS1). As examples of our biomechanics research, we investigate the
 mechanics of sprint running (Churchill, Barnes) and develop, validate and utilise lower cost, readily
 accessible equipment for analysis in representative environments (Heller, Dunn). We have also
 used 3D surface imaging technologies for understanding human morphology and individual-
 specific calculation of body segment parameters (Wheat, Choppin, Bullas). Additionally, we apply
 our breadth of expertise in areas such as design engineering (Foster, Senior), applied computing
 and performance analysis (Haake, Goodwill, Kelley), exercise physiology (Maden-Wilkinson,
 Nichols, Ruddock, Thompson), and sports nutrition (Ranchordas, Rogerson) - to understand
 performance across a broad spectrum from elite to wider participation in sport. Much of our work
 is funded through long-term partnerships with high performance sport organisations (£1.9m).
 Other significant funding for this group includes awards from H2020 (£150k), ERDF (£800k) and
 Sports Equipment and Apparel industrial partners (£700k).

 Our research relating to the Social Sciences of Sport draws together the subject areas of
 economics, management science, policy studies and sociology. We apply our strength in the
 application of economic techniques to generate new knowledge about the sport and leisure
 industries, which is relevant to policy nationally and internationally. Notable examples include our
 research on: Social Return on Investment (Davies), major events (Coleman, Ramchandani),
 facility performance management (Kung) and participation (Bullough, Gregory, Griffiths,
 Kokolakakis, Moore). Influenced primarily from financial accounting, we also have a strong
 programme of work relating to the performance of team sports, notably professional football
 (Plumley, Wilson). We have built upon areas of strength from REF 2014, such as elite sport policy,
 illustrated by the work of Shibli with the Sports Policy factors Leading to International Sporting
 Success (SPLISS) consortium. Moreover, we have developed new themes of research including
 representation and national identity in sport and leisure (Black, Cherrington, Fielding-Lloyd,
 Woodhouse). Our work on the economic and social impacts of major sports events is the subject
 of an impact case study (ICS2), illustrating the coherent application of social and management
 science to a specific field that has made a positive difference to society. Funding for this group
 includes awards from Sport England / Youth Sport Trust (£825k), ERASMUS (£330k), UK Sport
 (£450k), Department for Digital, Culture Media and Sport (£130k) and The Royal and Ancient
 (R&A, £270k).

 Our interdisciplinary and applied research in Tourism, Hospitality and Service Sector
 Management focuses on analysis of tourism policy, planning and marketing (Kim, Mellon,
 Tresidder), accessibility and adventure (Doran, Pomfret), and the hospitality experience,
 marketing and strategy (Ali, Martin). This group is strongly connected to the Social Sciences of
 Sport theme through research on the outdoors and the University’s Outdoor Recreation Research
 Group, which facilitates high quality cross-disciplinary and cross-university working with external
 partners in this field. Funding for this area of research comes from sources including ESRC and
 H2020.

 2014 Strategy

 The strategy in 2014 aimed to consolidate and build upon our research strengths, capability and
 successes. This vision focused on promoting solutions with positive impact on quality of life and

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 public policy, contributing to the development of knowledge and the economy. The period 2013-
 2020 has been a success in meeting those five objectives with illustrative examples outlined
 below.

 Continue to develop expertise and academic excellence in a sustainable manner in existing
 research areas. Staff developed clear research themes to increase collaborative applied
 research. Notable examples, evidenced in our ICSs and outputs, include: PA promotion and
 community engagement (ICS3), PA interventions in clinical settings (ICS4 and ICS5), the impacts
 of investment in major sport events (ICS2), engineering and technological interventions in sport
 and health, and ecological dynamics in elite sport and coaching (ICS1). The investment awarded
 to the Unit’s NCSEM enabled us to deliver meaningful and sustainable interventions in three
 locations across the city, prioritising low-income areas, with the aim of reducing health inequalities
 whilst promoting physical and mental health. We have continued to be funded by a range of high-
 profile sports organisations and event funders, to continue to develop our areas of strength.

 To exploit opportunities for developing expertise and academic excellence in new research
 areas. We have grown our research toward PA and lifestyle change. The NCSEM (a £10m
 investment in the previous REF cycle) has led a major shift in this period in NHS models of care -
 including the transfer of 80,000 hospital-based appointments into community venues co-located
 within three Sheffield leisure centres (ICS3). These centres bring together patients, researchers
 and clinicians, delivering meaningful impact on patients' lives through collaboration and innovation
 in healthcare services. Through local and national PA campaigns, such as Move More Month and
 Active 10, the NCSEM has helped to engage close to 1 million members of the public in PA using
 mobile digital technology. The success of our applied work, including the NCSEM, also led to the
 awarding of a £14m grant in 2015 to develop the AWRC, to deliver innovations that help people
 move; plus an additional £885k from Research England to establish a University Enterprise Zone
 (UEZ), including a Wellbeing Accelerator and Investor Club.

 To continue to focus on applied research that can create impact in society and make a
 substantial contribution to evidence-informed policy making. Staff have contributed to
 significant sport and wellbeing interventions, as well as policy development. The Unit hosts and
 chairs the International parkrun Research Committee, and we carried out one of the UKs largest
 PA surveys as part of the parkrun project. The publication of the government’s Sporting Future
 strategy in 2015 created the conditions for researching the social value and social return on
 investment from sport. As policy shifted from ‘sport for sport’s sake’ to ‘sport for individual and
 societal benefit’, we have been able to take a national and increasingly international role in deriving
 the non-market value of sport. Research has also contributed to decision making and policy - for
 example the findings from the Accessible Gastronomy project in 2014 (European Commission
 Growth Fund), in collaboration with the University of Girona, have informed policy around disability
 access to hospitality and tourism facilities. Staff have consulted for the Council for Hospitality
 Management Education and the Institute of Hospitality on the Future of Hospitality Management
 Education.

 To sustain or increase the number of research-active staff. The number of staff contributing
 to UoA24 in 2020 is 67 staff (64.1fte), compared to 34 staff (32fte) in 2014. This 110% increase in
 staff being submitted reflects a concerted effort to support staff through a combination of strategic
 appointments, enhanced research support, modified work planning, the recruitment of research
 active staff, mentorship and staff development strategies.

 At least to maintain research income and numbers of research students. Research and
 Knowledge Transfer (KT) (including consultancy) income during the period has risen significantly
 from £11.7m in REF 2014 to £16.8m in REF 2020 (see ‘Income’ section). When the capital
 investment for AWRC (£14m from DoHSC and ERDF) is considered, income is over £30m in this
 period. Research student numbers have increased from 36 to 71 successful completions.



                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research and Impact Strategy until 2027

 Our forward-looking strategy will consolidate significant achievements since 2014 and is
 consistent with the University’s vision of becoming a world leading applied University and striving
 to ‘Transform Lives’ (see Institutional Environment Statement). The five key objectives for the next
 reporting period are:

 To increase the quality, impact and overall culture of academic research excellence in our
 Unit, and exploit synergies between and across research themes. We will build on the
 success of the current period by increasing the number of staff with Significant Responsibility for
 Research (SRR) to 50% of our staff total by 2027, in line with the institution’s ambitions (see
 Institutional Environment Statement). Having put several strategies in place already, we will
 achieve this objective by focussing recruitment largely on identifying Early Career Researchers
 (ECRs), and supporting their career advancement within the University, as well as ensuring that
 all new and existing staff have a research mentor. Our research will continue to be driven by cross-
 cutting synergies and interdisciplinary expertise across, for example, public health, wellness, elite
 sport, and with community and clinical populations. Our partnership and collaborative work will
 embed Patient and Public Involvement (PPI) at its heart, and our interventions will be tested and
 scaled nationally and internationally, ensuring impact. We will continue to focus on the design of
 sporting equipment, testing and modelling principles, artificial intelligence, digital platforms,
 analysis of major sporting events and valuation of the sports sector.

 To enhance and develop competitive advantage in research and innovation in collaboration
 with UK and international partners. We have a strong reputation internationally for applied
 innovations in elite sport and wellbeing contexts. We will further the visibility and quality of our
 international research collaborations, and increase our non-academic engagement and impact, to
 promote our offer externally. We will leverage existing and potential future partnerships through
 the AWRC, including collaborations with industry. This will be based on successful sponsorship
 models (e.g. Westfield Health) and the Wellbeing Accelerator and Investor Club, as well as with
 other HEIs. Likewise, we will continue to develop sustainable and adventure tourism research,
 both nationally and internationally, with successful large-scale grant applications, again based on
 strong, strategic partnerships with HEIs and industry. Success will be measured through continued
 growth in the number of funded projects undertaken with international collaborators.

 To increase the equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) of our research across the Unit. While
 there has been a significant increase in staff with SRR in 2021 compared to 2014, there is a
 commitment to increase the opportunities for underrepresented groups - BAME and female
 academics in particular. We will work with the University and our wider networks to actively recruit
 research leaders, ECRs and Postgraduate Research (PGR) students from diverse and
 underrepresented populations. This will be achieved by creating research programmes that are
 more likely to leverage interest in diversity and inclusion. We will target specific funding calls from
 funders such as Sport England and UKRI that support the inclusion agenda. This will reflect the
 vitality and sustainability of our environment and is a key tenet of the University - enhancing the
 research culture and increasing opportunities for all to engage in research. Importantly this
 objective will also include the explicit promotion and celebration of our diversity and inclusion
 research achievements, internally and externally, using a range of digital platforms and seminar
 series.

 To grow R&I income. We aim to continue to increase external funding, both research and KT.
 This will be achieved by explicitly targeting the scaling-up of existing research networks and
 collaborations into new projects (UKRI, NIHR and major charitable funding bodies). We will align
 our strategic growth to emergent areas and draw on enhanced institutional support to identify and
 support proposals to relevant academic funding streams. We will support our experienced
 researchers and ECRs to develop strategic funding plans and increase the number of staff
 achieving external funding. We will identify and support ECRs to bid for funded fellowships
 (internal and external) and support their development as future research leaders and income
 generators.
                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Increase the numbers of Postgraduate Research Students. We aim to further develop our offer
 to continue to attract high-quality students and support effectively our PGR community. Future
 projects and joint PhDs will be developed in international collaborative research around our
 strategic themes, with more scholarships funded from external sources. Moreover, we will align
 PhDs, match funded (industry partnership) PhDs, Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA) and
 collaborative PhD scholarships with large-scale project proposals, to increase the impact and
 value of our research. We will increase the number and diversity of staff that are able to supervise
 and support our PGR community.

 Enabling Impact

 We are part of the University’s wider mission to create a critical mass of research around key
 distinct themes of global economic, social and cultural importance. This period has enabled us to
 bring together a highly interdisciplinary environment in which partnerships have been cemented
 and distinct impact platforms developed for Enabling Healthier Lives, Driving Future Economies
 and Building Stronger Communities (see Institutional Environment Statement). Given the inherent
 nature of our subject disciplines, impact is rooted at the heart of our work and is fundamental in
 how we plan, collect, analyse and report our research with relevant partners, funders and research
 stakeholders. Our research has influence and impact on policy and practice, and results in high-
 quality publications.

 In response to the feedback from the 2014 sub-panel, we have made more explicit our overarching
 strategy for achieving impact. In line with our 2014 Impact Strategy, we have invested in Unit’s
 infrastructure, including the AWRC and the NCSEM, which have created pathways to impact
 which enhance our collaborative working. One of the unique value propositions of the AWRC is
 providing business, industry and public sector partners with rapid access to world-leading
 expertise from multiple academic disciplines at the University. For example, the UEZ, Wellbeing
 Accelerator and Investor Club enables the AWRC to work with start-ups, SMEs, funders and
 agencies - to accelerate the development of health and wellbeing technologies and applications.
 We have expertise in working with patients with positive impact on improving health outcomes in
 the prevention and treatment of cancer, diabetes, frailty, heart disease, mental illness and obesity.
 This health expertise transcends departments and includes public health and behavioural
 scientists, who combine their health and community engagement knowledge to deliver meaningful
 change across the health and care system. The AWRC therefore provides a unique and world-
 class environment for PA research and impact.

 The NCSEM has also been at the centre of our applied research offer, with community, local
 authority and clinical partnerships providing clear and meaningful impact. This has seen the
 development of PA pathways and co-located clinical services, embedding practitioners and
 researchers in the same physical spaces, allowing for evidence-based innovations to be evaluated
 and their effect reported. These interventions include the design, delivery and evaluation of
 lifestyle behaviour change across populations, including older adults, those with MS (Carter),
 cancer pre- and rehabilitation (Bourke) and collaboration with community centric organisations
 such as parkrun (Haake, Bullas). Examples also include our hospitality management workshop
 series through Scale Up 360: free webinars and interactive workshops to support local hospitality
 businesses through the Covid-19 pandemic and optimise post-virus recovery.

 Our five ICSs illustrate and evidence the impact of our diverse collaborative research and are the
 products of symbiotic relationships with our research partners. All our ICSs are products of
 collaborative working, in clinical contexts (ICS4, ICS5) and the community (ICS1, ICS2, ICS3).

 Interdisciplinary Research

 By its nature, the Unit brings together interdisciplinary expertise from traditional sport and exercise
 science (e.g. psychology, physiology, biomechanics, strength & conditioning, coaching), with
 sports engineering, sociology, sport business, economics, and leisure and hospitality. We bring
                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 together scientists applying a range of research methods, which facilitates interdisciplinary
 research (regarding intervention, context and methodological expertise) and enables the
 pollination of skill sets to form expert research groups from a variety of backgrounds. Our research
 outputs reflect the fact that staff are encouraged to work across interdisciplinary themes, which is
 core to the research strategies of all our research groups.

 We work closely with researchers from across the University, including Health and Social Care,
 Engineering and research centres including the Centre for Regional Economic Social Research
 (CRESR) and Centre for Behavioural and Applied Psychology (CeBSAP). The majority of our
 external funding applications and projects are made with colleagues outside of the Unit. Our focus
 is toward cross-cutting, collaborative and predominantly interdisciplinary research with partners,
 both inside and outside of the University.

 Open Research and Research Integrity

 Within our Unit an environment has been established that ensures the effective sharing of research
 outputs and management of research data. We take a strategic approach to support outputs for
 gold open access, selectively targeting APC funding at high-quality outputs which would most
 benefit from enhanced dissemination to wider audiences; operationalised through a transparent
 review process. Approximately a third of our outputs within scope of the open access policy for
 REF have been published via gold open access. Staff systematically make all other publications
 available as green open access through the institutional repository (see Institutional Environment
 Statement).

 The University developed a responsible research metrics policy and is a signatory of DORA,
 informing the responsible assessment of research outputs.

 All research activity is subject to strict ethical scrutiny via the University ethics procedures and is
 compliant with the University commitment to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity (see
 Institutional Environment Statement). All staff are required to have ethical approval in place before
 starting research. Almost all staff also act as research ethics reviewers, while Ranchordas is Head
 of Ethics for the HRI.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy

 Developing a cohesive and supportive research environment for staff is fundamental to our growth,
 vitality and sustainability. We support staff to develop as researchers and have effective systems
 in place regarding work loading and self-development. In addition, we apply a recruitment policy
 that complements and builds upon our existing and future research strategies, capital investment,
 and integrates effectively with our PGR community and taught provision.

 There is a blend of experienced researchers, ECRs and research associates (RAs). Since 2014,
 nine new permanent staff were appointed, with a further 10 RAs to support research projects.
 There is a proactive approach toward creating opportunities for all staff to grow and develop their
 research portfolios and, as a result, increase our capacity and quality of research, whilst ensuring
 alignment to the University strategy of becoming a leading applied university. Our approach has
 seen a significant increase of around 110% in the number of staff submitted in 2021, a reflection
 of the increase in broader research activity and support across the Unit, and a movement beyond
 pockets of excellence in this period. In recent years, the integration of teaching and research has
 also enabled opportunities for a more research-informed curriculum, expanded the scale of
 collaborative funded projects, and increased the number of ECRs being involved in the writing of
 bids and running of projects.

 The strategy in this period has been to increase the quantity and quality of our research, while
 maintaining a focus on engagement, impact, social responsibility, and ensuring that the
                                                                                           Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 experience and attainment of our PGR students increases in line with expectations. We have
 moved to a position where new academic appointments require at least a doctoral qualification,
 unless there are compelling reasons otherwise (e.g. requirement for professional experience
 and/or qualifications).

 Career Development

 Staff development is a cornerstone of our approach and includes both formal and informal
 structures. This support includes: research mentorship, annual research planning and appraisal
 in line with the Academic Career Framework (ACF – see Institutional Environment Statement),
 and access to the University’s Researcher Development Programme.

 The increase in staff being included in the submission is a consequence of a concerted effort to
 support their research. In line with the University’s REF code of practice all staff with approved
 forward-looking research plans are allocated a minimum 10% research time, in addition to the
 standard 10.8% allocation. Significant time investment in ECRs across the REF period - an
 additional c.£140k/3.4 fte per annum above the SRR minimum - has enabled 11 to be included in
 this submission.

 Staff whose work is primarily on UKRI, NIHR and contract research have one day a week
 ringfenced for PhD supervision, professional development and other broader academic activities.
 Staff development budgets are used mainly for conference attendance and training, and our total
 investment for conference attendance is c.£45k pa, with around 40 staff supported annually.
 Career development is guided by the University's ACF, which recognises research as a route
 through which career development and promotion can be achieved. Colleagues who are seeking
 to develop careers in research are expected to perform excellently in relation to the expectations
 of research performance, and also to make contributions in relation to teaching and learning or
 external and professional engagement.

 The ACF structure forms the underpinning framework for regular staff appraisal (annual, with six-
 monthly update) via Performance and Development Reviews (PDR), which take place between
 individual colleagues and their line manager. These discussions review progress, consider any
 issues or constraints that may have arisen, and agree an action plan for the forthcoming year.
 They also record details of outputs produced and pinpoint development activities (including
 conference attendance and training activities) that might help colleagues to work towards their
 career targets.

 Other mechanisms to support colleagues in relation to their research career development
 comprise regular internal seminars and workshops. These events provide a platform for ECRs and
 PGR students, who are an integral part of our research community, as well as experienced
 researchers. Examples of events and support for staff include:
    • Fieldwork Fund and Pedagogic Research Fund - two competitive, inclusive calls per year
        for each fund, with an annual budget of £14,000 and up-to £2,500 available per project.
    • Project catalyst funding (12 projects at £2k pa for two years).
    • Six La Trobe University-Sheffield Hallam University funded projects, involving staff
        exchanges (see section 3).
    • Funding for staff to undertake doctorates.
    • Skills workshops/development schemes, including shut up and write, research design,
        statistics/quantitative data analysis and write a paper in a year.

 Early Career Researchers

 The development and support of ECRs are a vital component of our strategy to enhance our
 research capacity and environment. 11 ECRs are included in this submission (Bullas, Clarke,
 Dunn, Foster, Griffiths, Humphreys, Kelley, Kesterton, Myers, Nichols, Ruddock) with all
 staff having access to a research mentor. These programmes have seen the provision of 25

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research mentors, and initiatives are aligned with annual individual R&I plans. This approach
 supports the development of 3-year planning for research, which maps against annual PDR and
 business planning. These programmes are horizontal, in so far as the mentors provide support
 across all of our strategic research themes; and vertical, by representing all grades of research
 staff, so that mentees are able to access staff that are appropriate role models, around 2-3 years
 ahead on their research career pathway.

 Mentoring from senior researchers includes support to develop bid writing skills and journal
 publication, apply for fellowships and funding applications, increase their external profiles, and
 build networks and collaborations. In the context of the wider University, all newly appointed staff
 are required to follow a new two-year Hallam Academic Award (HAA), which includes modules on
 research plus a research project supervised by an experienced researcher. Newly appointed
 colleagues, and ECRs more generally, also have access to a range of programmes from advanced
 research methods training, publishing, writing and supporting their development. The University’s
 ECR Network also runs several events focused on ECR development.

 Other elements of support for ECRs include:
    • ECR representation on the University's Concordat Steering Group
    • ECR Network at University level and emerging networks across the Unit
    • Writing up sabbaticals for staff doctoral candidates who are near completion
    • 20%-time allowance for two years following doctoral completion to develop publications
    • Open invitations to research staff development events and workshops
    • Access to the University’s Researcher Development Programme

 Recognition and Reward

 One of the best indicators of the success of our staff development and support strategy is the
 promotion and progression of our team. Of the 67 staff in the submission, 42 were promoted or
 regraded during the assessment period. Four staff achieved a personal Chair (Bourke, Breckon,
 Copeland, Wheat), with a further seven awarded Readership (Crowther, Heller, Klonizakis,
 Kokolakakis, Pomfret, Ramchandani, Ranchordas). All Reader and Professor appointments follow
 the University’s process for internal and external panel review, to ensure integrity and
 commensurate standards for those in the sector. Staff who consistently deliver beyond their job
 descriptions are regraded and given enhanced responsibility. Other promotions include eight staff
 to Principal Research Fellow or Principal Lecturer (NFA grade 9), 16 staff to Senior Research
 Fellow or Senior Lecturer (NFA grade 8), and seven to Research Fellow or Lecturer (NFA grade
 7).

 Research Students

 Recruitment and Studentships

               13-14    14-15    15-16    16-17    17-18    18-19      19-20    Total
  PhD          9        6        9        4        15       12         10       65
  DProf        1        2        -        -        1        2          -        6
  Table 1. PhD and Professional Doctorate (DProf) completions (in the reporting period)

 We have successfully supported 71 PhDs (65 PhD, six Professional Doctorate) completions during
 this period (Table 1). We offer GTA PhD positions, as well as traditional PhDs studentships. GTAs
 gain structured teaching and learning experience alongside their PhD research, to increase
 employability as rounded academics. The University’s Doctoral School and research institutes
 hold induction events for all new students to guide them through the PhD experience and the
 associated processes associated with research.

 Throughout the reporting period we have achieved external funding for many of our doctoral
 studentships from prestigious funders including: EPSRC, English Institute of Sport, Adidas,
                                                                                      Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International Tennis Federation, Lawn Tennis Association, Adidas, British Swimming, UK Sport.
 The majority were fully funded, with the remainder match funded.

 Supervision and Training

 Each PhD student is allocated at least two supervisors that have a minimum of two completions
 between them. The Doctoral School offers compulsory supervisor training for new supervisors and
 staff who are new to doctoral supervision are matched with a more experienced researcher, who
 serves as a doctoral supervisor mentor. CPD is also provided for existing doctoral supervisors. 39
 staff from the Unit supervised PhD students during the assessment period.

 All new PhD students go through a bespoke training needs analysis. PhD training is consistent
 with the Vitae Researcher Development Framework and operates at three levels: research
 methods competence; research skills common to cognate disciplines; and transferable skills, such
 as time management and personal development planning. Our PhD students also receive training
 and development workshops (and opportunities) for teaching, and relevant work experience
 through current research and consultancy contracts. Where required, PhD students are also
 provided with supervision of specialist accreditations (e.g. British Psychological Society (BPS)
 stage 2, Motivational Interviewing (MI), British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences
 (BASES) accreditation). We strongly encourage our students to take part in the Vitae “Three
 Minute Thesis” competition to gain experience in public engagement. In 2018, a PGR student from
 our Unit (Thelwell) won the local competition with a talk on his thesis titled “Assessing human
 morphology using statistical shape analysis”, progressing to the national phase.

 PhD students are encouraged to present at research seminars and conferences, to publish in peer
 reviewed journals and are funded to undertake fieldwork. Each student is allocated £1,500 per
 year to support research engagement activity (conferences, travel etc.), although students are
 expected to supplement this by applying for external funding. Internally, dedicated poster and
 presentation space is provided for PGR students at the annual University Creating Knowledge
 Conference. An annual doctoral student symposium is held in collaboration with the University of
 Girona, Catalonia, where doctoral students present their research in Girona and Sheffield in
 alternate years. In 2018 the Unit hosted the national Tourism Research Network (TouRNet)
 PhD/ECR Symposium.

 Operations and Support

 The University’s Doctoral School is responsible for the oversight of all PGR activity, policies,
 regulations, and training. A Code of Practice for Research Students and Supervisors outlines the
 quality framework, thus helping to facilitate timely completion and a high-quality student
 experience. Each research unit has a PGR Tutor who oversees the progression and wellbeing of
 PGR students.

 An annual progress review takes place through feedback and monitoring, completed by both
 students and supervisors. Formal progression checkpoints are held to review student progress at
 3 and 12 months for full-time students (6 and 24 months for part-time). This process has been
 successful in providing a foundation for the student and to gain objective feedback from
 independent reviewers. Two examiners provide independent assessment for each phase.

 Since 2014, the Unit has seen three staff receive University Inspirational Research Supervisor
 Awards (Choppin, Davids, Senior). In addition, our PGR administration lead also received an
 award for Outstanding Student Support.

 We participate in the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES). In the 2019 survey our
 Unit of Assessment was in the upper quartile of results for overall experience, supervision,
 resources and research skills - with 86%, 92%, 91% and 91% of survey respondents replying
 positively respectively.

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Career Progression and Employability

 PhD students gain experience by supporting the delivery of knowledge transfer and consultancy
 projects as part of their extra-curricular paid activity. Moreover, PhD students gain experience
 including UG and PG project supervision and delivery of taught provision and assessment. PhD
 students are supported in their career progression and nine have been recruited as staff within the
 Unit during the assessment period, of whom two are submitted in the current assessment (Bullas,
 Dunn). Examples of posts held by former doctoral students are: Research and Innovation Manager
 at the International Tennis Federation, Machine Learning Engineer in the fashion industry,
 Programme Manager for the Academic Health Sciences Network, Research and Development
 Engineers in the sports industry, Sports Intelligence Consultant for EIS, and academic researchers
 and lecturers at other universities (e.g. University of Portsmouth, Leeds Beckett University,
 University of Bedfordshire, Tamale Technical University in Ghana and University of Maribor in
 Slovenia).

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 Sheffield Hallam holds a Bronze Athena Swan award and is committed to the Concordat to
 Support the Career Development of Researchers. Within this framework and context, our
 departments have a strong commitment to EDI, and deploy institution policies, procedures and
 processes – such as Hallam Deal, Race Equality Charter and mandatory staff training (including
 specific training for leaders and managers). These processes help ensure we embed EDI in all
 aspects of our environment for staff and postgraduate research students – from the recruitment of
 staff and students, to supporting career progression and deploying resources to support research
 and researcher development. These approaches and principles are key enablers of our people
 strategy, aligning to University Equality Objectives. All members of staff involved in recruitment,
 promotion and assessing research outputs are required to undertake mandatory unconscious bias
 and EDI e-learning modules.

 At entry-level to our research community, talented students are empowered to pursue doctoral
 study - advancing equality of opportunity, experience and outcome - regardless of where they
 undertook their first degree, their socio-economic background, or their particular protected
 characteristics. We have a strong record of widening participation with initiatives across the
 student lifecycle, including training to support the progression of students from non-traditional
 backgrounds from undergraduate into research degree programmes. Furthermore, we employ a
 learning contract system with our PGR students, which ensures supervision, progression
 monitoring and assessment activities are adapted to meet the learning requirements of students
 with a disability or additional learning needs. Adaptations include recording of supervisory
 meetings, extension of deadlines, submission of written questions for students to consider prior to
 supervisory meetings, use of notetakers, and briefings for external examiners around what
 additional factors need to be considered in the viva voce examination, e.g. regular breaks, re-
 wording/re-formulating questions.

 We are a member of the Race Equality Charter (REC) and recognise that racial inequalities
 continue to exist; we are committed to taking a strategic approach to making cultural and systemic
 changes that will make a difference to our minority ethnic staff and students. Participation in the
 REC helps us assess our current position, and shape and develop our action plan for change. We
 have supported minoritised staff in the Unit to attend the AdvanceHE Stellar HE programmes, and
 we have a member of staff who co-founded a cross-departmental anti-racism group (HWLS
 Minoritised).

 We take an inclusive approach to supporting staff within the Unit to develop their research careers
 around other commitments and responsibilities. We have a range of programmes and initiatives
 to support staff, which include flexible working and support for staff on maternity leave through KIT
 days. In accordance with the wider group of staff within our three departments, 7% of staff in the
 Unit have been or are currently supported to work part-time. Indeed, one of our ICS leads (Bourke)
 was awarded a personal chair during the reporting period and has been supported to work flexibly
                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 around other life commitments. Staff can change contracts to address health issues, work-life
 balance, caring responsibilities or new disabilities, without implication for their role or research
 time allocation. This represents an equality of access to a research career pathway, and a
 commitment to support staff to develop their careers, contributing to the vibrant research activity
 of the Unit alongside personal responsibilities.

 Staff in the Unit have accessed support programmes and leadership training designed specifically
 for women. For example, Doran received a research sabbatical and participated in the Aspire
 programme, Kim participated in Hallam Leaders programme, Ali completed Chartered Association
 of Business School (CABS) Development Programme for Directors of Research and participated
 in Aurora (AdvanceHE's leadership development initiative for women). Ramchandani completed
 the StellarHE Programme for Diverse Leaders in Higher Education.

 All staff in the submission are on permanent contracts. This represents a commitment to the long-
 term support of staff and the avoidance of uncertainties associated with regular renewal of
 temporary positions. If staff are recruited on a temporary contract associated with one or more
 research projects, they are maintained on a temporary contract for a maximum of four years.
 During their time in a temporary position, staff are supported and mentored to develop their skills
 and experiences, such that they are most often in a position where we can strongly support their
 progression to a permanent contract at the end of the maximum four-year period.

 Our staff have access to generous funding schemes for conferences, internal fellowships, doctoral
 study support, seed corn research projects and open access article processing charges. All staff
 have equal access to these schemes, regardless of their stage of career, protected characteristics,
 or part-time status. In accordance with institutional policies and processes, allocation of funding is
 achieved through open, transparent application and review processes, with consideration to
 principles of EDI. This includes ensuring that review panels are diverse, and that the diversity of
 the profile of supported colleagues for a particular scheme is considered.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 The Unit has a breadth of world class research which has driven a collaborative approach to
 income generation. This is reflected by the variety of sources of income and a mixed economy
 that increases both our sustainability and resilience within an ever-changing financial landscape.

 Our research, KT and consultancy income has risen significantly over the assessment period from
 £11.7m (£5.7m Research; £6m KT) in REF 2014 to £16.8m (£5.7m Research; £11.1m KT) in REF
 2020 - an increase of over 43%. This income is derived from funding council grants (£2.7m),
 Government, Local Education Authorities, the Health sector (£3.3m), industry and commerce
 (c.£2.1m), and knowledge transfer (e.g. consultancy, non-research regional funds and KT
 partnerships) (c.£7.8m). Other sources include course related fees, CPD and other income
 (c.£900k). This reflects the significant increase in infrastructure and targeted research strategies.

 We work to develop and maintain large research, KT and consultancy partnerships with key
 clients, to create continuing research and income-earning opportunities. These include the
 DoHSC, Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS), Council for Hospitality
 Management Education, Public Health England, UK Sport, English Institute of Sport, Sport
 England, International Tennis Federation, Royal and Ancient, Welcome to Yorkshire and
 Decathlon. The nurturing of these partnerships leads to new sources of income, principally
 because the reputation built up with long term collaborators is used to help secure wider funds.
 Research conducted under these larger partnership models has a wider impact, as
 methods/techniques developed in one part of the partnership can be applied in other areas. We
 have also generated significant income from UKRI, NIHR and charitable funders for intervention-
 based projects (e.g. MS Society, Macmillan Cancer).

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our international collaborations have added to this increase in our income, including a
 collaborative grant with University of Girona (Kim), which secured £137,936 in response to the
 European Commission Enterprise and Industry call: transnational cultural tourism products and
 tourism and accessibility for all. Our strategic partnership with La Trobe University, Melbourne
 (LTU) has seen the generation of externally funded research of c.$1.6m. This includes the LTU
 partnership between the University, LTU, Swinburne University, University of South Australia and
 University of East Anglia for a $1.1m dementia trial (MedWalk) funded by the NHMRC Australia
 (Breckon); plus a $0.5m grant funded by the Australian Defence Science and Technology Group’s
 Human Performance Research Network (Wheat). Staff have secured a further c.£100k from the
 LTU collaborative project initiative, which has led to several staff from the University working with
 LTU colleagues in pilot projects that will lead to submissions for larger scale grant support.

 Nine projects from our Unit have been funded by the University/LTU research development fund.
 These are in addition to a recently launched Sheffield Hallam-LTU PhD collaborative programme
 (£160K investment per annum), which will see 6 joint PhD scholarship opportunities per year from
 2020.

 Organisational Infrastructure

 The Unit’s researchers and leaders shape the strategic direction for each of our themes and
 manage the direction of our income generation. Research groups oversee their income generation
 activity in weekly meetings, which include updates on funding opportunities, bids in preparation,
 bids won, and ongoing performance of projects being serviced. This oversight provides awareness
 at an operational and strategic level and enables adaptations to be implemented at any phase of
 the process. We align our approach to income generation by areas of specialism, so that we play
 to our strengths and sustain income generation that facilitates public-facing peer-reviewed outputs
 and reports. Moreover, we have drawn on expertise from across the Unit, and work collaboratively
 with funders, other HEIs and industry partners.

 We have 6 fte dedicated research administrative staff that support all stages of our projects, from
 bid development and submission, to the ongoing management of awarded projects. We have 5
 fte of dedicated technical staff that support the delivery of R&I projects and these colleagues are
 embedded within the Unit across the respective departments. We have robust project
 management procedures, methodological rigour and close relationships with clients. Project
 management is directed by senior staff (supported by our research administration team) and
 focuses particularly on resource use and scheduling. We have a ‘live’ work planning model in
 research in order that staff and resource allocation can be managed efficiently and effectively.

 The search for external funding is driven by an appropriate blend of reactive and proactive actions.
 We have invested in external databases and search processes (e.g. FCS tracker) to continually
 monitor appropriate organisations and websites for procurement notices. A fortnightly grants
 meeting is held by the Health Research Institute, where opportunities for funding and fellowships
 are filtered, presented, then cascaded to relevant research groups. We use our professional
 networks to gather intelligence on forthcoming R&I funding opportunities. Most external research
 income is achieved after open competition with other HEIs and commercial consultancies. Bidding
 is typically a collective process, with appropriate teams formed by the bidding PI to meet a project's
 methodological and subject specialism requirements. Where internal resources are insufficient, or
 internal capacity constraints pose a risk to project feasibility, partnerships are formed with
 appropriate research and/or consultancy organisations. All projects are managed through our
 online project management system (including ethics and management sign off), as well as ongoing
 oversight of projects. We also work closely with Research and Innovation Services (RIS) (see
 Institutional Environment Statement) who provide, for example, support when negotiating
 contracts and intellectual property rights.




                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Infrastructure

 All staff have dedicated office space and necessary equipment to carry out their role and are
 located close to relevant facilities such as laboratories, hospitality facilities and engineering
 resources. The Unit has the following: a 90 m2 biomechanics laboratory with a 12 camera MAC
 system, 4 fixed and 2 mobile Kistler force plates, an instrumented Kistler treadmill, 3 Phantom
 high speed cameras, two 90 m2 physiology laboratories for full blood analysis, a 20 m2
 environmental chamber with -20°C to +40°C and 0-100% relative humidity range, a 30 m2 fitness
 suite for clinical populations, a bespoke S&C suite for athlete consultancy, and two fully
 instrumented interviewing suites. Existing sports engineering facilities were recently supported
 with a complete refurbishment (c.£300k) and equipment investment of £250k.

 In 2019, around 20 staff co-located to the AWRC. A capital grant from the DoHSC enabled the
 development of this world class facility, and also facilitated a EDRF equipment grant of £900k
 (total funding £14m). This, together with our own investment, funded the following spaces:
     • 500 m2, 7.5 m high indoor 3D movement analysis lab
     • 3D morphology scanning lab
     • Rapid prototyping and makerspace
     • Design engineering and manufacturing workshop
     • Human movement and performance lab
     • Emerging technologies hub




  Figure 1. The Advanced Wellbeing Research Centre and Olympic Legacy Park.

 The NCSEM Sheffield has translated the £10m DoHSC capital grant from the previous
 assessment period into a whole systems PA programme, including an innovative hub and spoke
 model comprising three centres located in communities in Sheffield known to experience poor
 health and high inequality. Each centre includes a mix of clinical and activity spaces, and co-
 locates patients, researchers, PA specialists and public health professionals - enabling a viable
 treatment option within the NHS. This approach is unique in the UK, and the iconic nature of the
 NCSEM model has also attracted additional funding from Sport England, national governing
 bodies for tennis and gymnastics, as well as local investment from the City Council - which in sum
 has resulted in a £24m investment in facilities to enhance PA in Sheffield. In 2015, the
 International Olympic Committee (IOC) designated the NCSEM one of 11 research centres
 globally for the prevention of injury and promotion of athlete health. This has created an
 exciting and innovative infrastructure that is already benefiting our staff and PGR research
 community with access to patients’ groups and clinicians.

 In addition to physical space and hardware, the Unit has software licences to enable us to carry
 out core research: Fluent licence for computational fluid dynamics, MATLAB licences for data
 capture and analysis, individual Microsoft Developer Network subscriptions for core researchers,
 and access to high performance computing via a University Microsoft Azure subscription. The
 readily available access to Azure allows our researchers to train and develop machine learning
 models based on big data (a future priority for us), which would be time prohibitive when using
 traditional local cluster computing power.

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

 We have a strong collaborative approach across the Unit, demonstrated through our strategic
 partnerships, networks with academic colleagues at other institutions, and with organisations in
 the sport and PA, leisure, tourism and hospitality sectors. Opportunities created for collaborative
 research (internally and externally) have continued to maintain and enhance a significant R&I
 culture.

 Strategic Partnerships

 Strategic partnerships between the University and other institutions/organisations provide staff
 with opportunities for collaborative research. Notable examples are LTU (Melbourne), Sheffield
 Teaching Hospitals, parkrun, and research partners of the AWRC (e.g. Westfield Health).

 Sport and PA are central to the strategic partnership with LTU, and one of the three strategic
 priority areas, alongside health and wellbeing, and food and nutrition. The formal partnership has
 strengthened existing relationships (Breckon) and created new partnerships and collaborations
 between staff at both institutions, including research in adventure tourism and sustainable tourism
 (Pomfret, Tadjeddini, Tresidder), motor control (Davids), biomechanics (Wheat) and social value
 (Davies). Notable outcomes include the generation of externally funded research (see Income and
 Infrastructure), as well as several peer-reviewed outputs (Davids, Breckon) and collaborative PGR
 opportunities.

 The principal aim of the AWRC is to bring together multiple and diverse stakeholders including:
 the public, patients and citizens, families, designers, digital technologists, charities, industrialists
 and business leaders - to work with a range of academic researchers to co-produce new
 technologies, interventions and services that will increase PA, improve health outcomes and drive
 economic growth. The AWRC has several strategic partners, who provide investment and
 opportunities for collaborative research. Notable examples include Westfield Health, who are
 providing £700k over a 7-year period to develop the evidence base for products and services
 relating to wellbeing at work. Ingesport and GO fit LAB are investing £180k to support three PhD
 studentships every three years. Strategic partners also provide opportunities for cutting edge
 equipment and technology, expertise in the health and wellbeing sector, and research and
 development opportunities for staff. For example, Cannon Medical – leveraging investment made
 on the Olympic Legacy Park Sharks basketball stadium with imaging (CT/MRI/ultrasound)
 facilities. Engaging in partnership has led to further economic and cultural investment in the city
 region, with the University at the heart of this partnership.

 The NCSEM partnership provides University researchers with a rich environment that includes
 access to, and input from, policy makers, commissioners, chief executive officers and their
 organisations across the health system in Sheffield. Through this diverse, research-ready
 environment, multiple collaborations have developed with local, national and international impact.
 The NCSEM has led a major shift in NHS models of care, including the transfer of 80,000 hospital-
 based appointments into community venues co-located within leisure centres (ICS3). These
 centres bring together patients, researchers and clinicians - delivering meaningful impact on
 patients' lives through collaboration and innovation in healthcare services. Through local and
 national PA campaigns such as Move More Month and Active 10, the NCSEM has helped to
 engage close to 1 million members of the public in PA using mobile digital technology.

 Haake and Bullas took over the parkrun Research Board in 2015. This strategic partnership aims
 to lead international research into the benefits of parkrun across 22 countries. The Board has
 international members (South Africa, Australia, Ireland) and has produced more than 40 journal
 and conference papers on parkrun as a large-scale population intervention. Haake and Bullas
 published a survey, sent to all registered parkrunners over the age of 16 in the UK and Ireland -
 resulting in 60,694 responses from the UK and 4,493 from Ireland. This makes the survey one of
                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the largest pieces of independent research into the impact of PA in the world. The results have
 been presented by Haake to Public Health England and the House of Commons, and by parkrun
 at the House of Lords review on PA in the community.

 Research Networks and Collaborations with International and National Partners

 In addition to high level strategic partnerships, collaborations between academic staff in the
 University and other institutions - locally, nationally and internationally - are an important means
 through which to progress research ideas, deliver high quality outputs and develop ECR
 researchers. For example, the research programme of Davids and colleagues has emerged from
 established collaborations and research links with scientific and educational organisations,
 academic institutions, and commercial and high performance sports organisations locally (e.g. Zen
 Oracle, Sheffield United FC), nationally (English Institute of Sport, UK Sport, British Canoeing)
 and internationally (e.g. University of Lisbon in Portugal, University of Rouen in France, Singapore
 Education Ministry, Queensland University of Technology in Australia, NTNU at Trondheim in
 Norway, Finnish Olympic Research Committee, and University of Jyvaskyla in Finland). The
 indicators of success, in the assessed period, for these collaborations can be seen in: the funding
 received for 20 PhD student positions, a Postdoctoral Research Fellow appointment, applications
 from four Visiting Fellows to gain research experience from collaborative research projects
 conducted at the University, publication of over 200 peer-reviewed articles in journals with high
 impact factors, 60 invited communications and keynotes to educational and training workshops,
 international scientific conferences, organised symposia, presentations to NGOs, six research
 funding applications, six appointments with grant funding international agencies seeking
 evaluation expertise, and five positions of leadership in international sport science and education
 research organisations.

 Another example of effective collaborative partnership working is demonstrated by our partnership
 with the European Network of Outdoor Sport (ENOS). ENOS is a network organisation of
 academics and practitioners committed to the development, promotion and management of
 outdoor sports across Europe (shaping policy and practice within the sector and representing
 outdoor sports at a strategic level within Europe), contributing to expert groups and forming
 collaborative partnerships (Gregory, Davies, Ramchandani). We were collaborators in a
 successful Erasmus+ European consortium bid on the benefits of outdoor sport to society (£500k),
 with Technical University of Munich and 11 other partners. In a further example we formed the
 ‘Alliance for Sports Engineering Education’ in 2019 (Choppin). The alliance is composed of
 European Sports Engineering Universities (Delft TU in the Netherlands, Chemnitz TU in Germany,
 Vienna TU in Austria and Aalborg University in Denmark) and companies (Vaude, Magura, Motek,
 EPSI EU, Labosport, Catapult and the International Tennis Federation). We were awarded a €1m
 Erasmus+ bid that will better co-ordinate the development of Sports Engineering education across
 Europe. During the reporting period, staff (e.g. Gregory, Davies, Choppin) have accessed internal
 DIFRO funding to enable international travel to develop research applications for funding to
 support collaborative working.

 In the current period, staff within the tourism, hospitality and service sector management area
 have strengthened their research partnership with the University of Girona, building on its annual
 PhD research colloquium with PhD collaboration, examination, staff exchanges and research
 collaboration (Kim, Whalley). Strong ties have been formed with the University of Johannesburg
 and University of Pretoria on strengthening university-enterprise cooperation in South Africa to
 support regional development (Ali). This will continue to develop over the next period, alongside
 the Unit’s new research partnership with the UNWTO TedQual accredited Excelia Tourism and
 Hospitality School, La Rochelle – driven by shared interests and expertise in tourism policy,
 accessibility and sustainability.

 A final example of an effective collaboration is the work of Shibli with the Sports Policy factors
 Leading to International Sporting Success (SPLISS) consortium, along with colleagues at Vrije
 Universiteit Brussel (Belgium), the School of Governance at the University of Utrecht
 (Netherlands) and Victoria University (Australia). This consortium has published several world-
                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 leading research outputs, held international workshops and conferences, and generated funding
 for further international funding applications and research.

 Partnerships with Clients and Funders

 We develop and nurture 'rich' partnerships with key clients, to create continuing research and
 income-earning opportunities, and to create and disseminate knowledge. There is a symbiotic
 relationship between research staff submitted in the Unit and funders/clients. Many of the outputs
 submitted by the Unit are generated as direct products or value added from research contracts.
 There is mutual benefit derived from partnership because access to data enables our researchers
 to advance academic knowledge and, in turn, the publication of outputs enhances the
 dissemination, impact and credibility of clients’ work. Successful partnerships include, but are not
 limited to, UK Sport (Ramchandani, Coleman), Sport England (Davies, Shibli, Kung, Bullough,
 Gregory, Griffiths), Sport Northern Ireland (Shibli, Coleman), Westfield Health (Breckon),
 Decathlon (Wheat, Hart), Sheffield Teaching Hospitals (Humphreys, Bourke), Youth Sport Trust,
 Badminton England (Hart), MS Society (Carter, Humphreys) and EIS (Goodwill).

 Wider Public and Non-Academic Engagement

 Staff in the Unit also engage in wider dissemination activities with the media. The Unit generates
 a disproportionately high share of the University’s media coverage due to our embedded impact
 and engagement strategy. A particularly notable area of our research, which receives significant
 coverage, is the economics of professional team sport (Wilson, Plumley) and sport events (Shibli,
 Coleman). Wilson engaged in circa 360 interviews with national and international media in the last
 12 months with an estimated reach of this work c.60million people pa. The world’s first Satellite
 Account for Golf was launched (Shibli and colleagues) at the Houses of Parliament by the All-
 Party Parliamentary Group for Golf (APPGG), with two further presentations to the APPGG on the
 impact of Covid-19 on the golf industry. Other examples include Haake, who has presented across
 media outlets including TEDx and as a featured guest on BBC Radio 4’s The Life Scientific. Wheat
 was invited to present at New Scientist Live in 2016, and several staff have provided content for
 local and national radio, television and newspaper articles and commentaries (Fielding-Lloyd,
 Ranchordas, Breckon, Copeland, Martin).

 Engaging Research Users/Beneficiaries

 We have a focus toward applied research in clinical settings and engaging research beneficiaries.
 For example, the AWRC Public Involvement in Research Group enables researchers to engage
 and listen to the public, as well as enabling the public to directly support, challenge and participate
 in the design and delivery of research. Our researchers can access the group at any stage of their
 research: before and after funding application submission, during the life of a project, and after
 completion to feedback on findings. Members being from the local area offers a chance to explore
 how the research could impact the local community.

 A specific example of engaging research users in clinical settings is evidenced through a series
 of research studies and outputs, which developed and co-produced PA/musculoskeletal (MSK)
 pathways for the NHS with clinicians and patients at co-located sites (Speake, Copeland, Breckon,
 Haake). This innovative research involved sustained and meaningful co-production led by
 researchers at Sheffield Hallam, listening to the voices of users and giving power to them to
 influence the pathway through the research process. The impact was the implementation of
 adapted MSK services (in conjunction with NCSEM) at the three co-locations in Sheffield
 (Concorde, Thorncliffe and Graves). The NCSEM co-location approach embeds service-users at
 its core. This research also gave rise to an applied and theoretical underpinning of the model,
 based on interviews and engagement with a wide range of users of the co-located sites (MSK
 physiotherapy, diabetes, podiatry and/or pain management).



                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wider Contributions to the Economy and Society

 Much of the breadth of research impact generated by our staff extends beyond the impact case
 studies submitted. We have a strength in research around the economics of sport, and this has
 impact beyond academia. For example, the work of Davies, Ramchandani, Coleman, Shibli and
 Kokolakakis on valuing various aspects of the sport and PA sector, and major events, has led to
 the development of measurement tools and methods (such as Social Return on Investment (SROI)
 and Sport Satellite Accounts) for measuring the sector locally, nationally and internationally.
 Research on the SROI of sport has fed into the development of a Social Value Calculator tool for
 measuring the value of activity in leisure centres, which is used across more than 500 sites in
 England and Wales. This has won awards for research and knowledge innovation (see prizes).
 Our sport economic research is having impact by feeding into and developing national policy,
 providing evidence for advocating the benefits of sport and PA for a range of stakeholders, and
 informing planning and investment decision making within sport and PA.

 An example of impactful sports engineering research is the body of work conducted with the
 International Tennis Federation (ITF) for 20 years. The ITF is the governing body for tennis, the
 4th largest sport in the world, and the premier ITF competition is the Davis Cup, played by 130
 Nations. Our research (Goodwill, Senior, Choppin and Kelley) with the ITF includes the
 development of the points system for the new format of the Davis Cup (our algorithm is used to
 determine rankings), surface testing of all Davis Cup matches, data analytics (embedding
 hawkeye data) and modelling the impact between the ball and racket. As an example, this work
 has shaped changes to the Davis Cup and a new Fed Cup competition format, which in-turn led
 to investment in tennis for the 20 elite nations and into the development of tennis in sub-elite
 nations.

 Our research also makes wider contributions to the economy and society in the field of sport and
 PA related to children and young people. We have a track record in analysing and evaluating the
 provision of sport and PA within schools for Sport England, the Youth Sport Trust and DoHSC, as
 well as various national governing bodies of sport. Examples include the School Games Mark
 Award - analysis of around 9,000 online award applications and 300 onsite inspections per year.
 The purpose of this research has been to help drive up standards in schools, which is enabling
 good practice to be shared widely across the schools’ network and across society.

 Contributions to the Discipline

 The number and diversity of esteem indicators listed in this section demonstrate the significant
 wider influence and reputation of staff submitted in the Unit. Evidence includes advisory board
 memberships, journal editorships, invited conference communications and work with professional
 associations.

 Contributions to professional associations, national and international committee and
 initiatives (n=38) to develop the disciplines includes: Ali (Member of the CHME Executive
 Committee), Bourke (European Association of Urology: Prostate Cancer Treatment and
 Management Guidelines Panel), Breckon (Behaviour Change Guidelines and Training Advisor –
 British Association of Cardiac and Pulmonary Rehabilitation; Research Advisory Group, National
 Institute of Preventive Cardiology, Ireland; Member of the BPS Qualification in Sport and Exercise
 Psychology Qualification Reference Group), Brunton (British University Colleges Sport – Chair of
 the Research and Impact Group), Bullas (parkrun Research Board Member (Vice Chair); Institute
 of Electrical & Electronics Engineers, IEEE Industry Connections 3D Body Processing Group),
 Choppin (IEEE Industry Connections 3D Body Processing Group), Copeland (International
 Olympic Committee Research Centre for Prevention of Injury and Protection of Athlete Health;
 Public Health England Moving Healthcare Professionals Advisory Board; Chief Medical Officer’s
 Expert Working Group for Older Adults - PA Guidelines Update), Davids (Athlete Development
 Futures Lab - UK Performance Pathway Team, British Olympic Association; Member of the
 Scientific Evaluation Committee, 14th European Congress in Sport Psychology), Davies (Co-
 Chair of the Sport Outcomes Evidence Review Group for Sport England; member of the parkrun
                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Board; member of the Go Fit Scientific Advisory board; Research Associate of the
 Observatory for Sport in Scotland), Dunn (Executive Advisory Board, International Sports
 Technology Association; Treasurer, International Sport Engineering Association), Haake (ITF
 Technical Commission; Chair of the parkrun Research Board; EIS, Technical Steering Committee;
 Sheffield City Region Chair of the Active Travel Advisory Board), Jimenez (Member of the Board
 of Directors at Europe Active - Ethics & Strategy Committee; Member of UKactive Research
 Institute Scientific Advisory Board), Klonizakis (expert panel member for Scleroderma and
 Raynaud’s UK; Chair of UK Youth Committee Chapter & Member of the IUA Youth Committee
 Council), Nichols (British Heart Foundation Clinical Research Collaborative Steering Group
 Committee Member; Guideline Writing Committee member for the Association of Chartered
 Physiotherapists in Cardiac Rehabilitation), Pomfret (committee member of the Adventure
 Tourism Research Association), Shibli (Research Associate of the Observatory for Sport in
 Scotland), and Wilson, R (Advisory Board for In Sport Education; Treasurer, The Football
 Collective).

 Contributions to journal editorships, associate editorships and editorial board memberships
 (n=41) include: Breckon (Associate Editor of International Journal of Sport Psychology), Choppin
 (Associate Editor, Sports Engineering), Heller, Wheat (both Review Editors - Frontiers in Sports
 and Active Living), Wilson, R (Editor of Managing Sport and Leisure), Ali (Regional Editor
 (Europe): Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Technology), Dunn (Lead Guest Editor for the
 Topical Collection in Football Research, Sports Engineering), Foster (Guest Editor “Sports
 Materials” special edition), Nichols (Associate Editor for British Journal of Cardiology); and
 Ramchandani (Guest Editor for Performance Management special issue on ‘Performance
 management in professional team sports’). In addition to the journal editorships outlined, many
 staff in the Unit sit on the editorial boards of major sport, leisure and tourism journals (including
 Tresidder, Davies, Shibli, Plumley).

 In addition to editorial positions our staff have also contributed as reviewers to over 250
 academic publications, journals or research proposals The majority of the Unit support the
 discipline by reviewing including, but not limited to; Barnes (European Journal of Sport and
 Exercise Sciences), Bullas (Sports Engineering), Bullough (International Journal of Sport
 Politics, and Policy), Cherrington (Qualitative Research in Sport, Exercise and Health), Churchill
 (Prosthetics & Orthotics International), Clarke (Managing Sport and Leisure), Doran (Tourism
 Management, Current Issues in Tourism), Fielding-Lloyd (Sociology of Sport Journal), Foster
 (Sport Engineering), Griffiths (Sport in Society), Humphreys (Disability and Rehabilitation),
 Kokolakakis (Journal of Sport Management), Maden-Wilkinson (Medicine & Science in Sports
 & Exercise), Myers (International Journal of Obesity), Platts (International Journal of Sport Policy
 & Politics), Plumley (Sport Business Management), Pomfret (Tourism Management, Journal of
 Sustainable Tourism), Ruddock (International Journal of Sports Physiology & Performance), and
 Rumbold (Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowship; ESRC).

 The international contributions and profile of our ECRs regarding journal editorial positions, (e.g.
 Dunn, Foster, Nichols) reviewing (e.g. Bullas, Clarke, Dunn, Foster, Griffiths, Humphreys,
 Myers, Ruddock) and panel and committee memberships (e.g. Bullas, Nichols) reflect the
 growth of our future research leaders.

 Conference Communications and Invited Keynotes

 The international profile of staff is also evidenced by over 300 invitations to our staff to speak at
 national and international conferences. Examples during the reporting period include: Davids who
 has delivered 60 invited communications and keynotes to educational and training workshops,
 international scientific conferences, organised symposia, presentations to NGOs; Breckon who
 has delivered over 30; and Jimenez, Haake, Wheat and Bourke who have each delivered over
 10 invited presentations and keynotes. Other invited keynotes include Nichols, Copeland,
 Davies, Shibli, Wilson, Klonizakis. Ali co-chaired the Business and Management track for
 CHME in 2019; Pomfret and Doran organised the International Adventure Tourism Conference
 hosted by the University (2015); and Klonizakis has Chaired five international and national
                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 symposiums. Wheat and Choppin were on the organising committee for the International Sports
 Engineering Association conference (2014).

 Prizes and Awards

 External recognition for research contributions for our staff includes 20 prizes and awards from
 national and international organisations. Notable examples include Haake who was awarded an
 OBE in 2020 for his services to sports engineering research. He was also awarded EPSRC
 Recognised Inspirational Scientists and Engineers ‘Inspirational Leader in the field of engineering
 and physical sciences’ (2014) and Grant Thornton’s 100 Faces of a Vibrant Economy ‘Realising
 Inspirational Scientists & Engineers’ (RISE) award (2018); Rumbold who was awarded the
 Association for Applied Sport Psychology (AASP) Doctoral Dissertation of the Year (2015); Hart
 who received the Best Paper Award from Sports Engineering (2019); Wheat who received the
 Recognised Inspirational Scientists and Engineers, Rising Star in the field of engineering and
 physical sciences award, EPSRC (2014); Ali was awarded the Institute of Hospitality Research
 Award for the best research paper at the European Council on Hotel, Restaurant and Institutional
 Education conference (2014); Davids won the European Journal of Sports Science Best Paper
 award (2019); Plumley, Ramchandani and Wilson won the Emerald Literati award for 'highly
 commended paper' in the Sport, Business and Management (2020) - an award previously won in
 2014 by Davies, Coleman and Ramchandani for a paper in the International Journal of Event
 and Festival Management.




                                                                                            Page 19
