Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Reading

 Unit of Assessment: 29: Classics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1. Context and Structure
 The University of Reading’s Department of Classics promotes world-leading research into all
 aspects of the civilisations and cultures of the ancient Mediterranean, their interactions, and their
 legacies, combining the best of traditional and modern approaches. Since 2014 we have greatly
 increased and diversified our grant capture and continue to shape research agendas through
 high-quality contributions to the research base, engagement in collaborative and inclusive
 research, and participation in current issues relevant to our discipline and society at large
 (section 4).
 Three research clusters (see 1.2) are designed to enable collaborative work and to fully
 integrate doctoral and post-doctoral researchers, as well as teaching-intensive staff who wish to
 develop an active research profile. A particular strength, and a focus of our research strategy
 since 2014, has been the Ure Museum of Greek Archaeology. The museum is based within our
 Department but benefits from being embedded within the University’s outstanding Museums and
 Special Collections structure. The Ure has developed its own Research Framework, facilitated
 by a post-doctoral researcher funded by the University Collections Project.
 Since REF2014, we have maintained a vibrant research community and achieved our goal to
 increase the number of early-career researchers. We have welcomed independently funded
 post-docs (e.g., Hanson) and 37 doctoral students. In addition to academic staff, post-docs,
 and PGRs from the Department of Classics, our UoA includes: (a) a senior academic based in
 the Economics Department (Dark), (b) individuals employed on ERC-funded positions, (c) a
 Visiting Fellow in Modern Greek funded by the Greek government, (d) researchers affiliated to,
 or visiting, the Ure, and (e) emeritus/retired staff.
 Classics belongs to the School of Humanities, together with the Departments of History and
 Philosophy. It is embedded in the university-level Research Theme ‘Heritage & Creativity’
 (H&C), comprising nine Arts & Humanities divisions, with its own Research Dean and
 professional team supporting grant applications (Research and Enterprise Services, with a H&C
 Research Development Manager), impact, and research communications. Support for our
 research comes from the School, the Ure Museum (an assistant curator, an education officer,
 and a fixed-term post-doctoral researcher), and the H&C Research Theme, which offers financial
 and mentoring support. We maintain active interactions with other divisions, as well as with
 Research Centres (e.g., the Graduate Centre for Medieval Studies; the Centre for Literacy and
 Multilingualism; the Centre for Health Humanities) and more informal research groups.

 1.2. Research and Impact Strategy
 Our overall strategy has been to consolidate, and substantially advance, our position as a world-
 leading centre for Classics in research, doctoral, and post-doctoral training, with a distinctive
 portfolio of societal impact and outreach activities. Our REF2014 narrative identified three main
 future strategic goals: increase competitive research funding; foster research synergies within
 and outside our UoA; and raise the profile of our research community and impact-leading
 activities. We have performed strongly in all three areas, as evidenced by: 1) a significant boost
 in grant capture (section 3); 2) increased national and international collaborations; and 3)
 higher number of independent post-docs and funded doctoral researchers choosing our
 Department.
 We have achieved these goals by centring our research strategy on:
       Maintaining our diverse research environment and international outlook through strategic
        appointments, visiting staff, and student exchanges;



                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Sustaining a healthy ECR community by supporting post-doctoral and doctoral funding
        applications (e.g., the AHRC SWW-DTP; the British Academy PDRF) and maximising
        opportunities for internal studentships;
       Restructuring our research vision, by developing new research clusters which add
        energy to existing areas of strength and encourage interdisciplinary collaborations;
       Improving internal peer-review for funding bids, co-ordinating support within the UoA,
        together with the support offered via the H&C Research Theme Grant Development
        College; these improvements have led to:
            o   Successful diversification of our funding sources;
            o   Promotion of a culture of positive research communication, including using
                innovative communication means to reach new audiences, and deeper
                engagement with the research impact agenda.

 Enhanced Research Management
 Our research policies and strategy are developed by a Research Committee chaired by the
 Research Division Lead (RDL) and comprising the Head of Department, the Director of
 Postgraduate Research, and, as needed, other colleagues representing our various research
 strands. An annual Operational Plan informs our research strategy, prepared by the RDL in
 collaboration with the Research Dean and the Head of School, and reporting to the University
 Committee for Research and Innovation. Colleagues with distinguished research profile and
 expertise have provided strong leadership in the role of RDL in this REF cycle (Kruschwitz,
 Mairs, Marzano). The development and implementation of our research strategy is also
 supported by a dedicated UoA Lead and by the framework and leadership provided by the H&C
 Theme. We all help shape these processes, individually and collectively, in ad hoc committees,
 as well as through discussion in Department Meetings. Resource allocation and leave schemes
 are decided by Heads of School and Department, in consultation with the RDL. The RDL is
 member of a School Research Committee and of a Community of Practice including all RDLs in
 the H&C Theme.
 The University’s new research structure introduced after REF2014 and the increased peer-
 support available has resulted in 8 awards of prestigious fellowships, including 3 British
 Academy Mid-Career Fellowships (Kruschwitz, 2014–5; Harloe and Mairs, both 2018–9) and 1
 Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship (Marzano, 2017–20). These have supported
 colleagues’ research careers and allowed us to recruit replacements at early-career level, both
 covering teaching needs and adding broader expertise to our research community. With respect
 to Digital Humanities, Nicholls’ British Academy Rising Star Engagement Award (BARSEA)
 allowed him to develop best practice guidance through engagement with diverse stakeholders
 (4.2; Impact Case Study).

 New Research Vision
 Our research vision is to maintain and enhance Reading Classics’ tradition of excellence while
 using the exceptional diversity of our researchers’ expertise to reshape the discipline in terms
 of place, time, and methods. We have established three research clusters to foster innovative
 approaches that will enable us to contribute to Classics as an international and inclusive
 discipline: Communities and Networks; Disciplinary Interfaces; and Legacies. These
 clusters are not rigidly formalized but provide a framework to encourage synergies within our
 unit and beyond. Work-in-progress seminars are used to identify synergies, and each cluster
 aims at organizing several talks by external speakers. WiP seminars have led, inter alia, to co-
 authored outputs and grant applications (e.g., collaborations between Harloe and Goff, and
 Harloe and Smith). Not all high-quality research of our UoA is necessarily collaborative and we
 greatly value the excellent individual research that is done outside the clusters.
 The cluster Communities and Networks examines the internal make-up of ancient
 communities and the networks within which they operated (e.g., Marzano on the Roman
 economy; Aston and Rutherford on Greek religion and society; Smith on the circulation of Greek

                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pottery). We also map connections hitherto unexplored: networks of religion, culture, and
 language in Byzantine Egypt (Papaconstantinou); networks of pilgrimage and religious influence
 intersecting Greece, Egypt, and Anatolia (Rutherford); networks of Hellenicity reaching into
 Central Asia (Mairs); networks of theology and ritual linking early-Christian communities (Dark;
 Gray). By plotting these interactions, crossing boundaries of ethnicity, state, and identity, we
 reveal the Classical world in new and expanded configurations while drawing in diverse
 participants (e.g., Egyptian ECRs; see 4.2). This cluster has particular synergies with the British
 Museum (BM), with whom the University has established an institutional partnership (see infra
 and Institutional Environment Statement, IES thereafter). Through this cluster we support
 interdisciplinary and innovative work (e.g., Hanson’s research on ancient cities) and international
 collaborations (e.g., Marzano and Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona, 4.1).
 Disciplinary Interfaces challenges conceptual boundaries imposed by previous generations
 of scholarship. Its work is by definition interdisciplinary and international. Key areas are: a)
 interactions and continuities between different geographical zones and cultures: Greece and
 the East (Mairs and network on Hellenistic Asia; Rutherford on the Hittites; Mairs and Rutherford
 on Greece and Egypt); b) interactions between languages (Dickey on Greek/Latin; Mairs on
 ancient translations); and c) chronological continuities (Dark and Papaconstantinou on
 Byzantium). Mairs’ appointment was a strategic decision post-REF2014 in order to widen the
 breadth of our research and research-led teaching beyond the classical Mediterranean and has
 led to collaborations with new international partners (e.g., Shanghai and Nankai Universities,
 China).
 Legacies focuses on the reception of ancient culture both within antiquity and the modern
 period, and its contemporary relevance. Key areas are: a) collections research and
 Winckelmann's ground-breaking work on ancient art (Harloe, Smith); b) use of Classics in
 contemporary Africa (Goff); and c) ancient and modern imperialism (Mairs). Its work has been
 further supported by the fixed-term appointment, funded by the H&C Collections Project, of Dr
 Thornton as the Ure research officer; Thornton has developed the Ure’s Research Framework
 and joint research and public engagement projects with the BM, funded by the BM-UoR
 Research Fund.
 The collective success of these clusters is reflected in output volume, grant capture, doctoral
 and post-doctoral researchers, impact and public engagement in each area. During the
 assessment period, over 230 outputs have been deposited in our institutional repository. Our
 vibrant and inclusive research environment is evidenced also by peer-reviewed publications,
 single- and co-authored, produced by our studentship, from undergraduate (including through
 Reading’s Undergraduate Research Opportunities Programme [UROP]) to PhD level.
 The Ure’s collection and archives have an important role in our research strategy (c.5,135
 objects also accessible via an online database and via Adlib, through the University’s
 Enterprise system). As highlighted in the Ure’s Research Framework, there are several thematic
 collection strengths (e.g., 20th-century European history; travel and tourism; gender,
 representation, and identity) which not only feed into research of our Legacies cluster, but offer
 concrete opportunities for collaborative projects and funding applications related to current
 debates (e.g., decolonising collections, repatriation, gender representation), and collaborations
 between museums and the creative industries (e.g., between ‘Museum in a Box’ and Smith and
 Thornton to create ‘Annie’s Box’, an interactive educational resource based on founding curator
 Annie Ure’s life).

 Support for ECRs
 Increased specialist mentoring of applicants for doctoral and post-doctoral funding has sustained
 a thriving ECR community. In the assessment period we had 2 independently funded post-
 docs (Hanson, British Academy, 2018–2021, mentor: Marzano; Barfoed, Norwegian Research
 Council, 2019–22, mentor: Smith); 5 PhDs funded by the SWW AHRC consortium; 3 PhDs
 funded via Graduate Teaching Assistantships, and 3 overseas PhDs funded by University
 of Reading International Studentships, while 3 further AHRC funded studentships continued
 from the REF2014 period. The award in June 2020 of a British Academy post-doc mentored by
 Goff (starting Sept. 2020) confirms the success of our active approach to mentoring.

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 International Outlook
 We have a strong record as a hub for visiting scholars at doctoral and post-doctoral level,
 granting generous access to workspace, library and IT resources, and, where needed, the Ure’s
 holdings and archive. In the assessment period, we have hosted 10 academic visitors from 4
 continents, including 3 researchers from China, a result of a recently implemented MoU (led by
 Mairs) between Reading and Nankai University, and of Duff’s visiting professorship at Shanghai
 University; 1 researcher from Egypt, funded by the Egyptian Ministry of Higher Education; and
 1 from Nigeria, funded by Ibadan University and the Leventis Foundation. Academic visitors from
 developing countries, but also our own visits abroad (Goff’s ongoing involvement with Classics
 in Africa; Mairs in Egypt) are one way in which we support diversity in our discipline. We seek to
 develop and promote our academic community, nationally and internationally, and encourage
 future exchanges, international collaborations, and recruitment of strong ECRs. We also
 welcome PhD students from other institutions, particularly from overseas. During this cycle, we
 have hosted c.12 visiting doctoral researchers from China, Spain, Italy, the UK, and the
 US.

 Research Communication and Impact Strategy
 We communicate our research widely and effectively to academic and non-academic audiences
 nationally and internationally, with the support of Reading’s research communications team and
 Building Outstanding Impact Support Programme (BOISP), with dedicated Impact Officers and
 financial support of c.£15k. Several colleagues have developed social media presences that
 engage substantial and diverse audiences, including Dickey (Impact Case Study), Mairs
 (Hermeneis; Everyday Orientalism), and Nicholls (Impact Case Study). We have a lively
 Facebook presence (1,000+ followers from 45 countries), Twitter feed (2,400+ subscribers),
 and a wordpress blog (total average volume of 400 views/month). The Ure has its own research
 blog, the ‘Ure Routes’. We engage with national and international media, in print, on air,
 televised, and online. For instance, Harloe, Mairs, and Nicholls featured on BBC Radio 4’s In
 Our Time, Dickey on CBC Radio Canada (2016), and Dark’s research on Hagia Sophia was
 picked up in 119 outlets in 21 countries and 7 languages.
 We share our University’s ethos that Reading’s research is of the highest relevance to present-
 day issues, treating research impact as an organic part of everything we do. Enhancement of
 impact activities is embedded into our research strategy. All staff are asked to think creatively
 about disseminating their research with new and diverse audiences through public engagement;
 this in turn helps in identifying key audiences and potential partnerships for developing impact.
 Reflection on public engagement and impact is part of our annual Personal Research Planning
 (PRP) meetings, which are held in conjunction with Performance and Development Review
 (PDR) meetings at unit level.
 The University provides dedicated support for the development of impact case studies through
 BOISP, complemented at departmental level by the leadership offered by an Impact Lead
 (Nicholls, 2014-19). An example of the positive effect of this support system is Harloe’s and
 Smith’s work on Winckelmann and LGBT+ issues, which has resulted in collaborations with
 other institutions, public talks, and an exhibition (see 4.2).

 Future Strategy and Priorities
 Our recent successes give us confidence in our future vitality and sustainability, but the
 increasing challenges faced by the HE sector raise questions about the future of UK universities
 and require innovation in research and research-dissemination methods.
 Our future priorities are to: 1) continue our engagement in high-quality and innovative research;
 2) maintain and ideally increase our level of grant capture; 3) maintain a sustainable profile of
 career stages; 4) expand the contemporary relevance and impact of our research. To meet
 these priorities, we will:
       regularly review our research clusters, encouraging activities within and beyond the
        University;

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       continue our engagement with constructive internal peer-review processes, effective
        PRP meetings, and mentoring of ECRs;
       increase participation in national and international research networks and grow local
        opportunities for collaborations by building on existing connections with institutions such
        as Reading Museum and the Berkshire Record Office;
       diversify our research funding sources by focusing on developing collaborative projects,
        building on our established and new research contacts;
       diversify PGR funding sources through Collaborative Doctoral Awards, attract
        independent post-docs by actively inviting applications, and create funded post-doctoral
        positions through major funded projects;
       engage with current societal challenges and debates, in order to sustain our commitment
        to diversity and inclusion, while also developing impact. The successful work of our
        Legacies cluster (4.2) serves as a model;
       extend our engagement with Open Access: the University has an Open Research Action
        Plan and offers extensive support for Open Research (see IES), including funds for open-
        access monographs. Key initiatives were already taken at local level in 2019, e.g.,
        identifying book chapters suitable for open-access funding;
       cultivate long-term relationships with established and new stakeholders, to identify their
        needs and effectively integrate impact into our research’s early stages.
 The new British Academy post-doc who joins us in autumn 2020 supports our commitment to
 keeping a sustainable profile of career stages, while the project, ‘Queer Tragedy’, feeds into
 strong existing research strands. Exciting future research opportunities will be provided by the
 recent partnership between the University and the BM to site near our campus the Museum’s
 Archaeological Research Collection. Research collaboration with the BM has been already
 facilitated by seed-corn funding, professional research support, and a community of champions
 at both institutions (Mairs for Classics). We will seek to boost opportunities by: 1) supporting
 collaborative funding proposals that link together expertise and infrastructure at both
 institutions; 2) developing high-quality Collaborative Doctoral Award proposals.

 2. People

 2.1. Staffing strategy and staff development
 Our unit derives its vibrancy from the team spirit of the people who make it, from the students to
 the professors. We foster intellectual curiosity and rigorous research skills from the earliest
 stages, actively investing in future generations of outstanding scholars. This is reflected in our
 sustained engagement with Reading’s distinctive UROP programme, which has led to 12
 funded undergraduate research placements during this cycle, contributing to a stream of
 motivated students who have subsequently embarked on higher degree programmes at leading
 UK Universities. Our appointment strategy is driven by a focus on international research
 excellence and the desire both to enhance existing strengths and to expand into new areas.
 Fostering an inclusive research environment: the diversity of our research is also reflected
 in the make-up of our academic staff who come from 5 countries with a gender balance of 5
 male to 9 female staff, with 4 male and 8 female staff in senior roles with research
 responsibilities (associate professors; full professors). We had two BAME staff during the
 census period (one professor, one post-doc). We proactively invite members of our department
 with no research responsibility to become involved with our research community (e.g., through
 research seminars, financial and structural support within our means). For example, we
 supported the research of sessional lecturer Navratilova, under Rutherford’s mentorship,
 securing H&C Theme pump-priming funds for grant development, a workshop, and her
 participation in international conferences in the US, Egypt, and Germany on topics concerned
 with Digital Humanities and secondary epigraphy.


                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Appointments: all appointment processes are either chaired or otherwise overseen by a
 member of the University’s leadership group, as appropriate to the position’s seniority. Offering
 permanency to Mairs secured breadth and depth in Greek History and the study of colonialism(s)
 ancient and modern. Pollmann’s appointment, the Head of the School (HoS) of Humanities from
 2016 until leaving for Bristol in 2018, augmented our provisions in Latin literature and boosted
 our work on Late Antiquity and Early Christianity, providing context to the research of Gray,
 Papaconstantinou, and Dark, as well as enhancing our research environment through the
 realignment of her ERC-ITN network with associated doctoral researchers/Graduate Teaching
 Assistants. These appointments were supplemented with increased efforts to attract externally
 funded doctoral and post-doctoral researchers, in order to achieve a sustainable profile of career
 stages overall.
 Transformative role models: We have a proud history of maintaining a fair gender balance in
 appointments for leadership positions. During the assessment period, in addition to Pollmann
 (F) as HoS (2016–8), the headship of department was held by Marzano (F), Kruschwitz (M) and
 Aston (F); research division and UoA leadership was held by Kruschwitz (M), Mairs (F), Marzano
 (F), and Rutherford (M).
 Mentoring, training, and professional development: all newly appointed staff receive an
 induction and are assigned an experienced research mentor. Colleagues are given the
 opportunity to reflect on their performance and future research plans through the discussion of
 their annually updated PRP. For large grant applications, our H&C Research Theme offers peer
 review through its internal Grant Development College as well as personalised pairings based
 on research expertise. Additionally, generous funding can be provided by the Research Dean
 towards pump-priming/action-lab-style activities, to support the development of larger
 applications (e.g., Kruschwitz’s successful ERC application, see below).
 The University’s People Development and the Centre for Quality Support and Development
 (CQSD) offer a wide range of staff training. ECRs are fully integrated in our mentoring structure
 and offered the opportunity to further develop their professional skills. The H&C Theme has
 furthermore developed dedicated support for ECRs and facilitated bespoke training for
 individuals– e.g., in Digital Humanities. ECRs are also encouraged to undertake some teaching
 in the Department and deliver modules of their own design.
 Promotion/career progression: during the assessment period 1 colleague was promoted
 from lecturer/assistant professor to associate professor, and 4 colleagues from associate
 professor to full professor, based on a range of criteria including, but not restricted to,
 research, teaching, and academic citizenship. We have an internal support system whereby staff
 applying for promotion are mentored through the process and can access personalised advice;
 the accelerated professional trajectory of some colleagues shows the success of this support
 system. Mairs is a good example of the Department’s successful support for the professional
 development of early-career staff: originally covering for another colleague, she was made
 permanent after REF2014 and assigned research and teaching mentors. She was supported
 for rapid promotion to Associate Professor (2017) and to Professor (2019) in recognition of her
 outstanding research achievements.
 We are proud of the gender balance and inclusivity in our staffing portfolio (see 2.3). Recognizing
 the difficulties of the academic job market, we endeavour to support research ambitions of staff
 on teaching-only contracts.
 Research leave and allowances: all our researchers benefit from one term’s study leave in
 eight. Research performance during leave is monitored at School level and we encourage those
 on leave to consider the development of grant applications. We also had additional leave for the
 development of impact case studies.
 All of our academic staff have access to an annual staff development allowance as well as to
 additional competitive funding from sources within the School, the H&C Theme (especially for
 the development of funding applications, research collaborations, and impactful activities), and
 the University (Research Travel Fund, Research Endowment Trust Fund, and BOISP, for travel
 costs, buyouts, and impact-bearing activities).

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Parental leave: we follow the University's maternity leave policy, which gives all pregnant
 employees up to 52 weeks Maternity Leave regardless of length of service/hours of work. During
 this assessment cycle, two colleagues took their maternity leave entitlement and a third the
 statutory two-week parental leave. We support staff returning to work after maternity leave by
 offering informal peer mentoring (e.g., to catchup with new procedures), by supporting requests
 for flexible working, and by assigning lighter administrative roles and/or teaching loads, as
 needed.

 2.2. Supporting PGR students
 The Department offers a PhD programme in Classics, requiring the production of a thesis of up
 to 80,000 words’ length over a maximum of four years (full-time study: a part-time option is
 available). During the census period 18 PGR students were awarded PhDs and one an MPhil
 in Classics, up from 11 in REF2014. At the census date, 14 PGR students were registered on
 the Classics PhD programme, studying either full-time (9) or part-time (5). Recruitment of
 doctoral students is through networking and mentoring of candidates from our own PGT
 programmes and from national and international engagement. Prospective applicants receive
 expert advice on their PhD proposals, which has led to securing 12 funded PhD places, both
 from internal highly competitive competitions (e.g., Chepel, Prouat, and Feito, each awarded 1
 of only 7 annual International Studentships across the University) and external ones (5 funded
 via the SWW-DTP).
 Doctoral researchers are assigned two supervisors, with a clearly identified lead supervisor.
 Supervision takes place regularly, following the University Code of Practice on Research
 Students and Good Practice Guide for Supervising PhDs. Progress and quality of supervision
 arrangements are monitored through an annual review process, administered by the Graduate
 School, requiring input from both the doctoral researcher and the supervisors, and independent
 assessment by internal assessors. After 18 months, students go through the process of
 Confirmation of Registration, from which they may progress into their degree’s final stages.
 Our doctoral researchers are embedded in our research community through the provision of
 dedicated departmental study space, our open-door policy, our organisation of annual doctoral
 research conferences, and their involvement in our weekly research seminars and research-led
 teaching.
 We benefit from the structural and administrative support, and facilities, of Reading’s Graduate
 School, which provides doctoral researchers with varied training opportunities. All doctoral
 researchers undergo a Learning Needs Analysis carried out in collaboration with their
 supervisor(s), and, in addition to the Graduate School’s offerings, we consistently encourage
 them to attend training provided by Reading’s CQSD as well as workshops in Classics. Paid
 teaching opportunities are available as part of their professional development. Moreover, we
 have offered our doctoral researchers the paid opportunity to provide study advice to
 undergraduates as Academic Skills and Know-how Advisors.
 All doctoral researchers have access to travel funding opportunities within Classics and
 university-wide. Several have received financial support from the University through ‘regional
 bursaries’ made available to locally-based researchers, or PhD funding that is available as part
 of academic remuneration packages.
 We foster a culture in which doctoral researchers may realise their full potential as early-career
 academics, e.g., by publishing, organising conferences, and considering their research’s impact
 potential. An example is J. Lloyd, who held a SWW-DTP studentship (2015-9). He taught in the
 Department, gained experience working in the Ure, and organised with Rutherford at Reading
 the 11th international MOISA conference (2018) on ancient music. He was supported in
 preparing a BARSEA and a BA PDRF application. Other PhDs/ECRs have organised/facilitated
 research events at Reading during this assessment cycle, including AMPAL 2020 and the ECRs
 conference ‘Keeping it in the Family’ (2019).
 The high quality of our support for our PGRs is reflected in their subsequent appointment to post-
 doctoral positions at other academic institutions, including: the New York Academy of Medicine;

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford; the Open University; Universities of Exeter, Manchester, and
 Leeds.

 2.3. Equality and diversity
 We regard the fostering of an inclusive research environment as both an ethical duty and of
 paramount importance to the sustainability of our research culture. Our research-active staff
 consists of 15 members (14.5 FTE) (5 identifying as male, 10 identifying as female). This
 translates into 9 full professors (3/6 M/F), 3 associate professors (1/2 M/F), 1 assistant professor
 (F), and 2 post-doctoral researchers (1 M, 1 F). Staff in employment at the census date represent
 5 different nationalities, include BAME and LGBT+ staff (including both at professorial level).
 We support, as much as feasible, flexible working patterns. For instance, in the case of a
 colleague on 0.5 FTE, her teaching is scheduled in one term only, allowing her to focus on
 research and impact in the other, and to travel abroad as needed. We have supported flexible
 working also in the case of colleagues with disabilities or caring responsibilities. We fully engage
 with, and feed into, our University’s equality and diversity initiatives, supported by the University’s
 Dean for Diversity and Inclusion, and members of our unit have held leadership roles in the
 development of a School-level bid for an Athena SWAN award. We benefitted from generous
 funding available through university-level diversity and inclusion initiatives, in particular for
 research led by Harloe and supported through the University’s UROP programme, which led to
 subsequent research and dissemination activities (section 4). Supported by the University,
 members of our unit have also enjoyed the opportunity to go on leadership training courses
 specifically for LGBT+, BAME, and female staff, such as Stellar HE and Stonewall Leadership
 Programme.
 In our appointment processes we ensure a gender-balanced selecting panel. We consistently
 strive to support promotion of colleagues based on their achievement, actively addressing
 potential gender biases before they become an issue (e.g., in the allocation of research vs.
 teaching and learning roles). During the assessment period 4 colleagues were promoted to full
 professor (2 male, 2 female) and 1 colleague to associate professor (female). Leadership
 roles were also assigned with careful monitoring of potential gender biases, resulting in a
 balanced spread over the years covered by this cycle (section 1.2); the same applies to the
 selection of speakers for our annual Percy Ure Lecture (section 3) and our termly research
 seminars, and we were proud to host visiting researchers from Nigeria, Pakistan, and China.
 For the 2017 International Women’s Day, we showcased five of our female role models on
 social media.
 Equality, diversity, and inclusion are not only part of our lived culture, but also form a core aspect
 of our impactful research, which actively engages with issues of decolonisation and cross-
 culturalism (Harloe, Mairs, Rutherford), the classical tradition in Black Africa and inclusivity
 in our discipline (Goff), LGBT+ and the classical heritage (Harloe), and female
 representation and visibility in the history of our discipline (Mairs, Smith, Thornton).
 The selection of our output portfolio reflects our commitment to equality and diversity. We are
 returning 100% of eligible staff; for determining research independence for ECRs we have
 applied the criteria developed by our University Code of Practice (UCP); additionally, all staff
 could avail themselves of the UCP declaration of personal circumstances procedure. Since the
 early stages of this REF cycle, we have used a Research Output Support System (ROSS) to
 manage and support internal peer-review. For output selection, all staff were asked to select up
 to 10 outputs and provide an initial assessment of their research quality, after which modelling
 was undertaken on the basis of quality while being mindful of inclusiveness, career stages, and
 specific circumstances as declared by the researcher. Our UoA Lead received REF-specific
 training regarding the Equality Act 2010 and unconscious bias training. The University’s interim
 Equality Impact Assessment (2020) and bias analysis (2021) identified no statistically significant
 differences for protected characteristics in our selection.




                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.4. Support during lockdown
 Allowing flexible working patterns for staff, especially those with childcare responsibilities, during
 lockdown was the first response in supporting staff to continue their research activity. We strove
 above all to maintain a sense of community and prevent isolation, especially for our ECRs and
 PGRs, by organizing online meetings and events, such as our annual PGR symposium (June
 2020).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Building on our ambitions outlined in the context of REF2014, we have substantially improved
 our research grant capture.
 The following staff were awarded substantial funding in the assessment period (with a total value
 of c. £3m, compared to c. £300k awarded during the REF2014 period): Dickey (Leverhulme
 fellowship: £39.5k), Duff (Princeton Center for Hellenic Studies fellowship, £12k), Gray
 (Humboldt Fellowship: €63.6k, paid to the individual and thus not visible in our total unit spend),
 Harloe (British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship: £111k), Kruschwitz (British Academy Mid-
 Career Fellowship: £131k; ERC Advanced Grant, €2million), Mairs (British Academy Mid-
 Career Fellowship: £102k), Marzano (Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship: £113k),
 Rutherford (Käte Hamburger Kolleg Research Fellow: £13k).
 In addition to attracting external funding, staff engaged successfully with the University’s internal
 funding competitions (Research Endowment Trust Fund; University Research Fellowships),
 totalling £17,556 for teaching buyouts.
 All members of our unit bar one (based in another department but included in all our activities)
 are based in the Department of Classics, located in Reading’s Edith Morley building. Our
 research and impact benefit from the structural and financial support from the H&C Research
 Theme and central University Services, including research development and impact
 development managers, generous funding opportunities and leave schemes, and a successful
 proposal library for funding applications. The H&C Research Theme has supported research
 and impact planning and development of our unit with seed-corn funding, buyouts, and
 workshops / academic fora on, e.g., Open Access, Social Media, and Bibliometrics. Our UoA
 has received more than £32k to support research and impact activity from the H&C Theme
 during the assessment period. Investment is made against an annual operational plan and
 planning process involving discussion between the RDL, Heads of Department and School and
 our Research Dean. The H&C Theme also has Research Communications Officers, who
 manage online and press dissemination.
 In addition to weekly research seminars, we run two annual named lecture series. The Percy
 Ure Lecture, established in 2011 to mark the centenary of Reading’s Classics Department and
 named after its first professor of Classics, and The Gordon Lecture, introduced in 2013 in
 recognition of a bequest by the late Prof. J. E. Gordon. Ure Lecturers during the assessment
 period were Prof. K. Coleman (Harvard, 2014), Prof. I. Sluiter (Leiden, 2015), Prof. C. Smith (St
 Andrews/BSR, 2016), Prof. C. Roueché (KCL, 2017), Prof. G. Woolf (ICS London, 2018), Prof.
 L. Foxhall (Liverpool, 2019). Gordon Lecturers included Prof. M. Lee (Vanderbilt, 2014) and Dr
 C.-L. Hsu (Tunghai, Taiwan, 2018).
 The Ure is a focal point of our research and teaching environment. It is the fourth-largest UK
 collection of Greek ceramics, with Smith as its curator, Holly (grade 4) as the assistant curator,
 Romero-Mayorga (grade 4) as education officer, and Thornton (grade 6) as fixed-term post-
 doctoral researcher officer (01/2019-05/2020) and provides opportunities for 25+ volunteers
 each year. It is embedded in the structural support provided by the University’s Museum,
 Archives, and Special Collection Services. Post REF2014, the Ure was part of the University
 Collections Project, with a total investment of c.£500k (see IES). As part of this project, the post
 leading to Dr Thornton’s appointment was created, to develop the research potential of the Ure’s
 collections and archives. The resulting Research Framework has identified opportunities for
 partnership development and collaborations, both internally and externally, including with the
 BM. We have identified areas of specific potential to expand the Ure’s stakeholders from

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Reading students/staff, researchers, the general public, and Reading’s local museums to include
 other University museums, museums with complementary collections, and source communities
 in Greece, Cyprus, and Egypt from where objects in the museum originate.
 Our University Library, with 24/7 term-time access, holds upwards of 16,000 print volumes
 related to Classics. With an annual library budget of currently £14,000, we have subscriptions to
 many major journals and editorial projects, and access to extensive electronic resources. We
 also have a dedicated departmental resources room and postgraduate office with an
 additional book provision of some 5,000+ items, IT equipment, and a dedicated departmental
 library assistant.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1. Academic Collaborations
 Individual research is only one aspect of our overall approach to the discipline; it is matched by
 our commitment to inter-disciplinary and cross-disciplinary collaboration as the key to our field’s
 innovation and vitality.
 Our well-established international profile has grown considerably in the assessment period.
 Research on cultural exchanges between the classical world of Greece and Rome and other
 contemporary civilizations is one of our core strengths and this has generated several
 collaborations. Mairs was external researcher for the AHRC-funded project based at Oxford
 ‘Corpus of Ptolemaic Inscriptions’ (2013–6). She runs the Hellenistic Central Asia Research
 Network, launched at Reading in 2016 with a conference supported by the British Academy-
 Stein Arnold Exploration Fund, and leading to conferences in Germany and the Czech
 Republic. Mairs’ work on Bactria and the Far East has been instrumental in opening new
 research and teaching collaborations with China: the Department has an MoU with Nankai
 University, with a forthcoming Student Mobility Agreement, while an MoU with Fudan
 University is being prepared. As a result of these links, we have hosted visiting academics from
 China. Rutherford’s work on Greek religion and on cultural exchanges between Greece, the
 Hittites, and Egypt has led to funded fellowships and collaborations with institutes in
 Europe, the US, and Turkey. Rutherford is also a core member of the Network for the Study
 of Archaic and Classical Greek Song. Proceedings of a 2013 conference held at Reading
 under the network’s auspices were published by Brill (2019), co-edited by Rutherford.
 Our research on ancient languages and epigraphy generated collaborations with the University
 of Seville (Kruschwitz; this led to his funded appointment as Visiting Professor in Seville and to
 Dr Limón’s British Academy Visiting Fellowship in 2018). This collaboration led to the award,
 while Kruschwitz was at Reading, of the ERC Advanced Grant ‘Mapping out the poetic
 landscape(s) of the Roman Empire’ (€2million). Dickey sits on the international advisory board
 for the ERC-funded PLATINUM Project (P.I. Dr Scappaticcio) at the Federico II University,
 Naples (Italy) and was Spinoza Visiting Fellow at Leiden (2015). Duff is International Advisor
 for the ‘Rome our Home’ project funded by the Portuguese Foundation for Science and
 Technology (2018-21) and held a Ziqiang Visiting Professorship at Shanghai University
 (September 2016).
 Within the cluster ‘Communities and Networks’, research on the ancient economy continues to
 underpin strong international collaborations. Marzano was co-applicant for the international
 Research Network Grant ‘Structural Determinants of Economic Performance…’ (Research
 Fnd. of Flanders, Belgium: 2012-2016, €52k,) and for the follow-on Network Grant by the same
 funding body (2017-2021, €62.5k), and organized a symposium (Reading, November 2013, with
 doctoral researcher Stringer and supported by an Economic History Society grant) and a
 conference panel (Bonn 2018) co-sponsored by this network. She was also research team
 member for the project: ‘Paisajes de la Hispania Romana’, led by the Universitat Autonoma de
 Barcelona and funded by the Ministerio de Economía y Competitividad, Spain (2015–2018,
 €50k), and for a follow-up project (2018-2020, €35k). Other international collaborations within
 this cluster include Smith’s Visiting Research Fellowship at the Humanities Research Centre-
 Australian National University (2017).

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Late Antiquity and Christianity have become a strong focus of our research following strategic
 appointments made in the current cycle, and this has led to several national and international
 collaborations. Papaconstantinou was senior advisor on the ERC-funded project based at
 Oxford ‘The Cult of Saints’ (2014–9; £45.9k), while Dark’s Hagia Sophia Project, which resulted
 in a 2018 monograph, involved collaboration with the Czech Centre for Mediterranean
 Archaeology and Turkish scholars. Dark is also the Chair of the Late Antiquity Research
 Group, the principal British-based organisation for the archaeological study of Late Antiquity and
 the Byzantine Empire.

 4.2.    Inclusive research
 Several of us have attended, contributed to, and taken on leadership roles in the newly formed
 UK Women’s Classical Committee (WCC) (Goff, Harloe, Mairs, and Smith). Harloe organised
 at Reading the workshop ‘LGBT+ Classics: Teaching, Research, Activism’ under the auspices
 of the WCC (2018) and the 2016 mid-career workshop (at KCL) and Goff has co-organized the
 workshop ‘Towards a more Inclusive Classics’ (ICS June 2020, moved online due to COVID-
 19).
 Fostering interdisciplinary dialogues, discussion of teaching curriculum, and early-career
 researchers, Goff co-organised the ‘Revolution and Classics’ event at UCL (2016). Goff’s
 research on the Classics and colonial Africa has led to her involvement in collaborations beyond
 Europe (e.g., in 2014 she became Research Associate at the University of the Free State, South
 Africa). Mairs, through a British Academy Writing Workshops 2020 award, has developed
 coaching sessions for Egyptian ECRs to guide them through the stages of bringing their
 research to global audiences. The two workshops (Cairo, October 2020; Aswan April 2021,
 postponed from 2020 due to the pandemic), in collaboration with researchers at Ain Shams
 University and Dr Z. Kamash, RHUL, will build stronger connections between Egyptian and
 British Classicists.
 Harloe’s research on Winckelmann has led to a number of events aimed at the general public,
 including the exhibition ‘Winckelmann and Curiosity in the 18th-Century Gentleman's Library’ at
 Christ Church, Oxford (2018, with Smith), workshops and talks in London, Reading, and Oxford
 (2017-2018), and will also include a digital display on Europeana.eu (forthcoming). Harloe’s
 research and teaching engage proactively with LGBT+ agenda, with significant impact on the
 local community. In 2018, as a UROP project, she supervised two undergraduate students
 researching LGBT history in Berkshire, working with the Berkshire Records Office, resulting in a
 special issue of the Berkshire Echo (Jan. 2019). One of the students, A. Hitchings, went on to
 work for SupportU and secured HLF for the 12-month project ‘Broken Futures: Finding LGBT
 Lives Affected by the Labouchère Amendment’, which also feeds into her academic work for an
 MRes in Law, subsequently started at our University.
 The Ure has a long-established programme of events with primary schools in the south and
 south-east, recently expanded to include secondary schools in the interests of widening
 participation. In the assessment period, 142 schools attended educational events at the Ure,
 for a total of 5,300 pupils. Another key strand in this area is the Reading Ancient Schoolroom
 (Dickey; Impact Case Study). Interactive educational initiatives such as ‘Annie’s Box’ facilitated
 access for users outside of the museum during lockdown/social distancing rules. Capitalizing on
 this, the Ure, with funding from the ICS (May 2020, £499) is developing a Public Engagement
 project to run through 2021, ‘Ure Museum in musical boxes’. In this project our staff and students
 work with the company ‘Museum in a Box’ to produce easily deployable activity boxes related to
 our ancient music research and featuring replicas of objects by 3D printing. The Ure’s digitization
 project was also an important asset during lockdown, allowing its staff to continue to support
 research, for instance by hosting internships and sharing best practice (e.g., in July 2020 Smith
 spoke on ‘virtual internships’ at the Classical Collection Networks), and helping our non-
 academic partners in the post-COVID recovery.
 In addition to educational activities, the Ure presents current research to the public and the
 academic and student bodies through exhibitions (32 organized in the period including some
 held elsewhere, e.g., ‘Gifts for the Gods’, Manchester Museum, 2016) and collaborations with

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 larger museums. For example, in 2020 it secured a BM Spotlight Loan, Troy: Beauty and
 Heroism and funding in support of the project from the BM Trust (£10K) [the loan has been
 moved to Feb.-May 2021 due to COVID-19]. Several pilot projects between our academics and
 the BM have already received seed-corn funding, e.g., Thornton’s project exploring approaches
 to narrating a more diverse past in museum outreach for children, and ‘Sounds of the Ancient
 Mediterranean’, based on a detailed study of ancient musical instruments in the BM and the
 Ure’s collections. The Ure also contributes to society by drawing in the local community and
 providing events for families, including engaging with Heritage Open Days, the Archaeology
 Festival, and the Young Archaeologists’ Club. In the current assessment cycle, more than 147
 family events and activities were organized, attended by at least 2,200 people. We recognize
 the importance of engaging schools to ensure the future vitality of the discipline and we regularly
 give outreach talks. For example, in the current REF cycle, Smith gave 21 outreach talks across
 the UK, reaching a total audience of c.650 individuals. Furthermore, we support the activities
 of a local branch of the Classical Association and have provided leadership within the national
 Classical Association.
 An important strand linking our research and educational activities for the wider audience is
 Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs). Developed by Nicholls, and featuring other Classics
 staff, Rome: A Virtual Tour of the Ancient City, hosted by FutureLearn, has communicated our
 research to 51,000+ participants from 190 countries, with 7,553 learners completing over 90%
 of the course (FutureLearn mean averages for number of joiners on a course and those
 completing over 90% are 2,580 and 465). Additionally, we have featured on Massolit, a company
 producing research-based educational films for schools. Since records started in March 2017,
 Aston’s films on Greek religion, recently endorsed by OCR and recognized as equivalent to
 textbooks, have been accessed 12,605 times by users in all 5 continents, while Nicholl’s course
 on ancient Rome was viewed 22,527 times.
 In connection with his Impact Case Study, Nicholls, supported by a BARSEA award, shared
 specialist expertise and developed best practice guidance and organised several workshops
 and colloquia (2015-2017) for academics, the software industry, and the heritage sector. The
 positive contribution of our research-informed teaching was recognized at national level, with
 Nicholls winning the 2014 Guardian University Award for Teaching Excellence for his work
 using digital modelling of ancient cities in teaching. Contributions to society and economy
 emerge also from commercial applications of our research: Nicholls licensed parts of his Rome
 digital model to various parties, including broadcasters (e.g., Travel Channel, Discovery
 Channel), and has created commissioned work for the BBC and National Geographic.

 4.3 Contribution to the research base
 We have consistently contributed to the vitality of the discipline and its impact on academic and
 non-academic communities. We are involved in the support of public-sector bodies and
 institutions, and our scholarship and contribution to the field has been recognized by
 distinguished awards and elected fellowships. In the current REF cycle, we had one Fellow of
 the British Academy (Dickey), five Fellows of the Royal Historical Society (Dark, Duff,
 Harloe, Kruschwitz, Marzano), three Fellows of the Academia Europaea (Dickey; Kruschwitz;
 Marzano), one Fellow of the Pontificia Academia Latinitatis (Kruschwitz), and three Fellows
 of the Society of Antiquaries (Dark, Marzano, Thornton). Further marks of esteem include:
 Dickey: Goodwin Award of the Society for Classical Studies (2016); Duff: Visiting Ziqiang
 Professorship, University of Shanghai (2016); Gray: two-year Humboldt fellowship (2016-8);
 Mairs: Fudan Fellowship, Institute of Advanced Study, Fudan University, Shanghai (2018);
 Marzano: Visiting Professorship, Centre for Urban Network Evolutions, funded by the Aarhus
 University Research Foundation (2016); Guangqi Fellowship, Shanghai Normal University;
 JSPS Invitational Fellowship for Research in Japan, University of Nagoya (both 2019).
 Our staff play key service roles within the academic sector, e.g., through holding external
 examiner positions at UK and overseas institutions, supporting tenure requests, and working for
 government agencies and charities. For instance, Aston is on the Courses and Teaching Sub-
 committee of the British School at Athens (2016–2021), and the Council and the Search
 Committee of the Society for the Promotion of Hellenic Studies; Goff was involved in the

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 launch of the Classical Association of Ghana; Duff and Papaconstantinou serve on the AHRC
 SWW-DTP Reviewer College; Harloe is member of the REF 2021 Classics sub-panel;
 Kruschwitz chaired the awards panel for Classics, Celtic Studies, and Modern Languages of the
 AHRC SWW-DTP (2016-17); Marzano is a Trustee for the Herculaneum Society; a former
 Member of Council for the Society for the Promotion of Roman Studies (2015-2018); was
 the Chair of the committee evaluating the Institut Català de Arqueologia Clàssica on behalf of
 the regional funding body CERCA (2019); and has served on the History and
 Archaeology Expert Panel, Research Foundation of Flanders (2019) and the SWW-DTP
 Moderating Panel 5 (2020); Rutherford was on the AHRC Peer Review College (2014-2017).
 Our staff regularly undertake peer review, including for a total of 25 research councils and
 funding schemes (e.g., Leverhulme Trust, Horizon 2020/ERC, the Dutch NWO, the Deutsche
 Forschungsgemeinschaft, the Italian PRIN-MIUR, and the Canadian SSHRC).
 Two members of staff currently serve as Joint Editor-in-Chief / General Editor of prestigious
 journals and encyclopaedias (International Journal of the Classical Tradition: Harloe;
 Encyclopedia of Ancient History: Papaconstantinou) and 9 members have served/serve terms
 on the editorial boards of journals and publication series.
 Our staff have delivered 32 keynotes and prestigious lectures over the assessment period,
 several at high-profile international events (e.g., Dickey: the Gaisford Lecture, Oxford, 2014;
 Dark: Henry Myers Lecture, Royal Anthropological Institute; Smith: the Trendall Lecture at
 Canberra, 2017; Marzano: guest lecture at the Chinese Academy of Science, 2019). We have
 organised, at Reading and elsewhere, upward of 65 conferences, conference panels, colloquia,
 and workshops (47 in the UK; 18 overseas), several of which directly led to related publications.
 Some significant examples include: Mairs, workshop ‘Bi-/Multi-lingualism and the History of
 Language Learning and Teaching’ (2019), and three events on 'Orientalism, the Classics and
 Egypt' (Greek Campus, Cairo, 2017; British Council, Cairo, 2018; Bibliotheca Alexandrina,
 2019); Marzano: a panel at the 19th International Congress of Classical Archaeology
 (Cologne/Bonn 2018), subsequently published as an open-access, digital publication as well as
 in print; Harloe and Smith: workshops on Winckelmann at Reading, the Warburg Institute/KCL,
 and Oxford (2017–8). Harloe and Mairs also organised a workshop ‘Decolonising / Diversifying
 Classics and Medieval Studies’ (with S. Raisharma, Oxford and Z. Kamash, RHUL).
 Kruschwitz and Baines led on the department’s partnership with Prof. E. Hall (KCL) in her project
 ‘Studying Classical Civilisation in Britain’ (also known as Advocating Classics Education; AHRC-
 funded, 2017–9, subsequently funded by the Classical Association, KCL, and the Society for the
 Promotion of Roman Studies). We continue to work closely with Classics for All, likewise
 committed to facilitating Classics teaching in the state sector.
 The Ure and our department regularly support the museum and heritage sector; for example, it
 has collaborated with the Garstang Museum, Liverpool to produce the temporary exhibition
 ‘Egypt in Reading’ and our academics gave public talks at the Museum of English Rural Life as
 part of the Being Human festival (2019). We are a key constituent in our University’s strategic
 partnership with the BM (see 1.1; 1.2).
 In sum, we have greatly consolidated our position since 2013 and, looking beyond the pandemic,
 we are confident about our future trajectory.




                                                                                          Page 13
