Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Strathclyde

 Unit of Assessment: 20

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Organisation and structure
1.1.   This UoA is situated in the School of Social Work and Social Policy and includes 19 staff
       members (18.0 FTEs). The School also includes 13 staff (8.2 FTEs) on teaching-led contracts
       and 4 (4.0 FTEs) on research-support contracts and hosts two Scottish Government-funded
       Knowledge Exchange (KE) Centres – CELCIS (Centre for Excellence for Children's Care and
       Protection) and CYCJ (Children and Young People’s Centre for Justice).
1.2.   The School was formerly known as the School of Applied Social Sciences and included
       Sociology, Geography and Community Education, as well as Social Work. In 2011, the
       University decided to withdraw from the first three areas and develop Social Policy as a new
       area. A Professor of Social Policy (Harris) was appointed in September 2013 and seven
       further appointments (Meer, Greener, Deeming, McCarry, Heap, Smith and (from 1/8/20)
       Henderson) followed. In 2014, our principal research areas included Children, Young
       People and Families, Health and Wellbeing, and Citizenship and Communities. The
       area of Criminal and Social Justice was added in 2015. This reflected the School’s close
       links with CYCJ and was subsequently reinforced by Piacentini’s transfer from the School
       of Law and Jardine’s Leverhulme Early-Career Fellowship.
1.3.   Research into Children, Young People and Families is underpinned by a strong
       commitment to principles of equity and social justice. Research topics include the
       experiences of children in care and the youth justice system (Heron, Jones, Steckley, Paul);
       children and bereavement (Paul, Vaswani); child poverty (Sime); relationships (McCarry);
       emotional abuse (Fawcett); and the experiences of child migrants and their families (Sime).
1.4.   Our Health and Wellbeing research includes work on the history of height, health and
       mortality and the development of the NHS (Harris); the measurement of wellbeing
       (Deeming); health inequalities (Smith); mental health (Fawcett, G. MacIntyre, Quinn);
       medicalisation (Fawcett); adult wellbeing (Fawcett, Hafford-Letchfield); disability studies
       (Fawcett, Hafford-Letchfield, G. MacIntyre); telemedicine (Eccles); social care (Miller);
       and contemporary health policy (Greener, Smith). There is strong collaboration with the
       University’s Centre for Health Policy (CHP) and participation in a range of international
       networks.
1.5.   The Citizenship and Communities research seeks to improve our understanding of the
       causes and consequences of social divisions and their impact on individual and social
       welfare. It includes work on the history of charity, mutual aid and community development
       (Harris); participatory social policy (Fawcett); LGBT+ communities (Hafford-Letchfield); the
       political economy of the welfare state (Greener); health citizenship (G. MacIntyre); ‘race’
       and ethnicity (Meer); social attitudes and the development of welfare policies (Deeming);
       social investment and inclusive growth (Deeming); the welfare of older people (Eccles,
       Fawcett, Hafford-Letchfield); and migration and belonging (Sime).
1.6.   The idea that social and criminal justice are inextricably interlinked is reflected in our Criminal
       and Social Justice research. It includes issues associated with incarceration and
       punishment (Piacentini, Jardine, Weaver); crime and desistance (Weaver); death,
       bereavement, grief and loss (Paul, Vaswani); and gender-based violence (McCarry). We
       explore these issues in Scotland, the UK, and internationally. We also benefit from close


                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        links with the Scottish Government and CYCJ and play an integral role in the Scottish Centre
        for Crime and Justice Research (SCCJR) (paras. 1.8, 4.5).
1.7.    Our two Scottish Government-funded KE Centres have a particular focus on children and
        young people. CELCIS works to improve our understanding of the issues facing looked-after
        children and CYCJ promotes a better understanding of measures to prevent offending and
        reoffending.
1.8.    Within the University, we have made leading contributions to the activities of the CHP and
        the Institute for Future Cities (IFC). The CHP is co-directed by Quinn and includes colleagues
        from across the University. Its four main themes include Children, Young People and
        Families; Marginalised Communities; Innovation in Scottish Health Services; and
        Strengthening Global Health Systems. Rogerson became Deputy Director of the
        interdisciplinary IFC before leaving the School in 2020. The Institute undertakes research
        into urban problems and works with local and national governments, as well as commercial
        organisations, to improve the quality of urban life across the world.
1.9.    Our Research Clusters are aligned with Faculty priorities in the areas of Health, Children
        and Young People, and Public and Social Policy. They also align with University Strategic
        Research Themes in Society and Policy and Health and Wellbeing.


         School                          Faculty                      University
         Health and Wellbeing            Health                       Health and Wellbeing
         Children, Young People          Children and Young
         and Families                    People
         Citizenship and
                                                                      Society and Policy
         Communities
                                         Public and Social Policy
         Criminal and Social
         Justice


Research strategy
1.10.   The UoA includes a unique combination of internationally-recognised experts in education,
        social policy, social work, residential child care, criminology, and gerontology. We aim to be
        recognised globally as a leading centre of excellence for research, teaching and KE across
        all these areas. In seeking to advance knowledge and understanding across all our
        disciplines we aim to secure changes in policy and practice which make a positive difference
        to society, both nationally and internationally.
1.11.   At the time of the last REF, our principal objectives were to sustain and develop our existing
        research areas; enhance the connections between academic staff and the two Scottish
        Government-funded KE Centres; increase our engagement with wider University initiatives;
        and reinforce our international partnerships. Each of these was designed to strengthen and
        extend our research impact. We also identified a number of other steps to enhance research
        activity. These included promoting a better understanding of ‘research quality’; increasing
        grant income; improving PhD completion rates; and encouraging colleagues to make further
        contributions to disciplinary development.
1.12.   During the current period, we have rationalised teaching provision in ways which increased
        research time and implemented a new research leave policy. We have prioritised the
        appointment of high-quality research leaders through the University’s Chancellor’s
        Fellowship (Meer, Deeming) and Global Talent programmes (Greener, Smith, Hafford-
        Letchfield, Fawcett, Henderson), alongside our normal appointment procedures. Our
        Output Development Group reviews the work of all colleagues prior to submission and works

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        to improve understanding of the characteristics of 3* and 4* research outputs. We review all
        grant applications internally and have strengthened the role of our research clusters to
        provide more supportive environments for staff in each area.
1.13.   The new research cluster in Criminal and Social Justice builds on pre-existing strengths in
        Criminal Justice Social Work and reinforces our links with CYCJ. Weaver’s research
        collaboration with Lightowler (CYCJ Director), Paul’s collaboration with Vaswani and
        Heron’s work with Interventions for Vulnerable Youth (IVY) illustrate some of the benefits
        which this has generated.
1.14.   These activities have made a significant difference across a number of areas. During the
        period 2013/14-2019/20, the annual value of the grants awarded averaged more than £600K
        and our field-weighted citation index increased from 0.98 to 1.33. PGR students more than
        doubled and we introduced new research-methods based Masters programmes in Social
        Policy, Social Work and Criminology to enhance the recruitment of postgraduate researchers
        (paras. 2.14-2.24, 3.1-3.6).
1.15.   As already indicated, our research has been aligned closely with University priorities in the
        areas of Society and Policy and Health and Wellbeing. However, the University has also
        invested heavily in the area of Children, Young People and Families. This has been reflected
        in the establishment of the Institute for Inspiring Children’s Futures. We have recently
        appointed a Professor of Child and Youth Wellbeing (Henderson) to provide academic
        leadership in this area.
1.16.   Our vision for the next five years is closely aligned with the University’s Vision2025. In
        addition to ensuring that staff continue to generate high-quality research outputs, we also aim
        to raise the impact and profile of our academic publications, increase our competitively-won
        research income, and build our postgraduate research population. We will continue to retain
        and recruit outstanding academic staff, researchers and students; extend collaborations with
        researchers in other parts of the University; expand our links with leading academic partners,
        government and the third sector; maintain an excellent research culture and environment;
        and ensure that our research and KE activities reach the widest possible audiences and
        continue to exert a positive impact on both practice and policy.


Impact and KE
1.17.   As befits a School with a strong practice component, we are strongly committed to the
        achievement of impact and KE. We recognise the importance of coproduction and the
        involvement of external partners in the design and conduct of research activities and the
        dissemination of results in order to enhance both relevance and sustainability.
1.18.   This approach reflects the University’s founding mission as the ‘place of useful learning’ and
        its ‘triple helix’ approach of bringing together academia, business and industry, and
        government and the public sector. As our REF2014 submission demonstrated, we have a
        long track record of developing close relationships with the voluntary sector, local authorities,
        the Scottish Government and international organisations.
1.19.   The value of these relationships is reflected across the School. Eccles has close links with
        North Lanarkshire Council, the Coalition of Care Providers and Social Work Scotland (SWS),
        and is a member of SWS’s ‘personalisation’ sub-committee. Jones established a multi-
        organisation partnership – Stand Up for Siblings – which has had a direct impact on Scottish
        adoption legislation and the Independent Care Review; and Kendrick chaired a special
        investigation for the Scottish Child Abuse Enquiry. Greener’s collaboration with the Kibble
        Centre has generated a toolkit for evaluating the provision of services for children in care
        (see also paras. 3.6, 4.6-4.11).


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.20.   Our commitment to collaborative working is also reflected in our Impact Case Studies (ICSs).
        ICS1 (Sime) was underpinned by the development of close links with the Scottish Association
        of Teachers of English as an Additional Language (SATEAL), Glasgow City Council, the
        Convention of Scottish Local Authorities (COSLA), and the Scottish Parliamentary Equalities
        and Human Rights Commission. ICS2 (Weaver) built on Weaver’s relationships with East,
        North and South Ayrshire Councils, Turning Point Scotland, Community Justice Scotland,
        the Freedom Bakery, the Scottish Prison Service and the Scottish Government. Sime and
        Weaver also developed links with the UK Government through the All-Party Parliamentary
        Group on a Better Brexit for Young People and HM Prison and Probation Service
        respectively.
1.21.   Our approach to impact is also underpinned by our relationships with CELCIS and CYCJ.
        Members of these Centres are heavily involved in two of our research clusters (Children,
        Young People and Families; and Criminal and Social Justice) and Steckley, Weaver, Paul
        and Heron act as research consultants. These collaborations have extended the reach and
        impact of our research. Jones worked with CELCIS to promote her research into the family
        relationships of care-experienced children and Paul used her links with CYCJ to disseminate
        findings on the bereavement experiences of young people in custody. Kendrick co-authored
        a series of CELCIS reports which have contributed to the development of proposals for
        improving the legal redress offered to historical child abuse survivors.
1.22.   Smith’s appointment to a Chair in Public Health Policy has also strengthened our
        commitment to research impact. She has worked with Action on Smoking and Health (ASH)
        and the Poverty Alliance to develop a better understanding of the socioeconomic
        determinants of smoking, leading to the publication of a joint report in 2019. She is currently
        collaborating with the Scottish Government, Greater Manchester Combined Authority and
        Sheffield City Council on the development of a more integrated approach to the reduction of
        health inequalities.
1.23.   The School has hosted two major Scottish-Government funded knowledge-exchange
        projects in connection with the reduction of gender-based violence in Universities and
        Colleges. The ‘Equally Safe’ toolkit has now been implemented by a number of Colleges
        and Universities, including UWS, Queen Margaret University, Napier University, Heriot Watt
        University, Robert Gordon University, and the Universities of Aberdeen, Dundee, Edinburgh
        and Stirling.


Supporting interdisciplinarity
1.24.   The School draws members from a wide range of specialist areas (para. 1.11), and we have
        constructed our research clusters on an explicitly inter- and multidisciplinary basis. This also
        reflects the University’s commitment to interdisciplinary working across each of its Strategic
        Themes (para. 1.10).
1.25.   Within the School, Jardine and Weaver (Social Work) have collaborated with Piacentini
        (Criminology) on research into prisoner employability; and McCarry (Social Policy),
        McGoldrick (Social Work) and Donaldson (KE Fellow) co-directed the Equally Safe
        projects. Harris (Social Policy) and Jones (Social Work) co-supervise postgraduate
        research into child protection and decision-making and Greener (Social Policy) and Paul
        (Social Work) co-supervise postgraduate research on palliative care.
1.26.   Colleagues are also involved in University-wide interdisciplinary projects. Members of the
        Health and Wellbeing cluster collaborate with colleagues in Psychological Sciences and
        Health (PSH), Law and Humanities on projects associated with: violence reduction, stigma
        and counselling; health and human rights; and, health literacy. They have also collaborated
        with Education, the Business School and Computer & Information Sciences (CIS) on grant

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        applications. Members of the Criminal and Social Justice cluster work with colleagues in Law
        and CIS and members of the Children, Young People and Families cluster collaborate with
        colleagues in Education and PSH on research into the health of child migrants.
1.27.   Our commitment to interdisciplinarity is also reflected in many of our national and
        international collaborations. Weaver and Piacentini have worked closely with sociologists
        and academic lawyers as part of the SCCJR. Weaver’s membership of the International
        Social Economy Network involves collaboration with specialists in Social Work, Criminology,
        Sociology and Public Management. Piacentini directs an international and interdisciplinary
        enquiry into the experience of incarceration in post-Soviet Russia. Hafford-Letchfield
        participated in a multidisciplinary COST Action on Ageism. Deeming has edited collections
        with authors from a range of both countries and disciplines. Harris collaborates with
        economists, demographers and gender studies specialists at Universities in Sweden, the
        Netherlands and the UK. Paul’s research into bereavement and palliative care includes
        collaborations with colleagues in Education (Universidad Autónoma Madrid) and Palliative
        Medicine (Radboud University, Nijmegen).


Open access and research integrity
1.28.   The School observes the principles of research integrity, as set out in the University’s Code
        of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings and Universities UK’s Concordat to
        Support Research Integrity. All staff receive online training in research integrity as part of
        induction and any concerns can be raised with the Associate Principal.
1.29.   All projects, other than those which are wholly dependent on the use of historical or literary
        databases and documents, require ethical approval. Most applications are reviewed by the
        School’s Ethics Committee but applications involving invasive techniques or especially
        vulnerable populations must be reviewed by the University Ethics Committee. All
        applications must be led by a Chief Investigator who is employed at Grade 7 (Lecturer A or
        Research Associate) or above.
1.30.   Staff working with original data are required to make appropriate arrangements for data
        management and storage. The University’s Research and KE Services (RKES) organises
        half-day training sessions on Data Management and Sharing for all staff. Project teams are
        required to complete a University Data Management Plan with sections on data collection,
        documentation and metadata; ethical and legal compliance; copyright and IPR issues;
        storage and back-up; data curation and open access; and any resource issues.
1.31.   All author-accepted manuscripts must be deposited within the University’s research
        information portal (PURE). This is monitored by the University’s Open Access Team, and
        staff can also deposit copies of any associated research material on the same site. We
        encourage staff to prioritise journals which support open access when submitting articles for
        publication. All of our REF-nominated outputs were OA-compliant in December 2020.


 2. People

Context
2.1.    Our staffing strategy is based on a number of considerations, including the ability to either
        support or lead research development in key areas. Rather than replacing staff on a like-for-
        like basis, we make a detailed assessment of future needs. This has enabled us to make
        targeted appointments in a number of areas, including Children, Young People and Families
        (Jones, Paul) and Criminal and Social Justice (McCarry, Jardine).


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.2.    We have also used the University’s Chancellor’s Fellow and Global Talent schemes to
        appoint senior staff in Health and Wellbeing (Greener, Hafford-Letchfield, Smith) and
        Citizenship and Communities (Deeming, Fawcett). Piacentini’s transfer from the School of
        Law provided additional leadership in Criminal and Social Justice. These appointments also
        strengthened leadership capacity across the School, with leadership positions being
        distributed more widely.


Career development
2.3.    We have appointed colleagues on both short- and long-term contracts. However, all of those
        appointed on fixed-term contracts (McCarry, Heap, Jardine) now have permanent contracts.
        This reflects the strength of our appointment procedures and the support provided to new
        colleagues (paras. 2.5-2.6).
2.4.    We offer early-career staff reduced teaching loads in accordance with the University’s Career
        Development Framework. An experienced colleague supports them and helps them to set
        and achieve objectives, including publications, research income, supervision, and the
        development of an independent personal research plan.
2.5.    ECRs are also supported by the University’s Organisational and Staff Development Unit
        (OSDU). SPIRAL (the Strathclyde Programme in Research and Leadership) offers courses
        in research supervision, grant writing, KE, publication, personal effectiveness, access to
        funding opportunities and research leadership. The Strathclyde Programme in Academic
        Practice, Researcher Development and KE (SPARK) provides postgraduate certification in
        each of these areas.
2.6.    We also provide more informal research mentoring for all colleagues. This covers research
        goals and timescales, publication strategies, reviewing drafts and proposals, highlighting new
        research opportunities, and engagement with research strategy. The University provides a
        dedicated research-mentoring scheme with support for career development, interdisciplinary
        networking and exchange of knowledge and expertise between staff at different career levels.
2.7.    Within the School, the Director of Research and KE and Head of School are responsible for
        monitoring research performance and overall academic activity. All colleagues participate in
        the annual Accountability and Development Review (ADR). This enables colleagues to
        reflect on the previous year’s achievements and set new objectives – including research-
        related objectives – for the coming year.
2.8.    Colleagues can apply for promotion in the autumn and spring of each academic year.
        Applications are assessed by the Faculty’s Promotion Panel before consideration by a
        University Promotion Panel. Candidates can choose whether to be assessed on the basis
        of KE, teaching and citizenship, but research is essential. During the current review period,
        five colleagues (Jardine, Jones, G. MacIntyre, Paul, and Steckley) have received Senior
        Lectureships and Sime, Weaver and Meer obtained Professorships.
2.9.    The School offers postdoctoral researchers opportunities for joint publication, research
        supervision and training. During the current period, A. MacIntyre has co-authored a paper
        with Quinn, and Reynolds and McMellon have co-authored publications with Sime. A.
        MacIntyre, Horn and Hill O’Connor have participated in PhD supervision.


Research support
2.10.   The School has a dedicated Strategic Development Fund, allocated annually by the Faculty.
        This is used primarily to support conference attendance. A Faculty Conference Fund
        provides additional support when conference attendance is linked to promotional activities.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.11.   We have two additional budgets for exceptional conference costs (such as attendance at
        major international events), development activities, and small-scale research expenditures.
        The Faculty’s Research Income Distribution Policy ensures that colleagues who obtain grants
        from UKRI and similar bodies retain a proportion of indirect costs for their own research
        activities.
2.12.   The Faculty’s Research Leave Policy enables academic staff to apply for one semester’s
        research leave every four years. Applicants are expected to demonstrate how they will
        contribute to research objectives, either by undertaking a significant piece of research
        activity, preparing material for publication or drafting grant applications. Successful
        applicants are required to prepare a report for the School’s Research and KE Committee.
2.13.   We recognise that colleagues may require additional research time when returning from
        prolonged absence. The University’s Family-Friendly Research Leave Policy entitles
        colleagues who have returned from periods of maternity, adoption or shared parental leave
        to apply for three months’ research leave. The University’s Agile Working Toolkit also
        enables staff to work more flexibly. The development of this toolkit has been accelerated by
        the Coronavirus pandemic.


Research students
2.14.   In 2016, the School launched a new MSc in Social Policy (Research Methods) in order to
        increase the flow of potential PhD applications in this area. We have also established
        comparable programmes in Social Work and Criminology. These programmes are organised
        around a common hub of methods modules, covering the philosophy of social-science
        research methods and qualitative and quantitative methodologies, and will help to strengthen
        research training capacity across our disciplines. We have also launched three new PhD
        programmes in Social Policy, Criminology, and Public Health and Health Policy to
        accompany our pre-existing Social Work programme.
2.15.   We advertise PhD opportunities through the University and Scottish Graduate School of
        Social Science (SGSSS) websites and the University’s Recruitment and International Office.
        We have used a number of University funding schemes, including the Student Excellence
        Award (SEA) and Dean’s Global Research Scholarship (DGRS) schemes, to encourage
        applications. We have also supported candidates’ efforts to obtain external funding from
        such sources as the ESRC, Wellcome Trust, and Commonwealth Fund.
2.16.   We have secured PGR funding from both internal and external sources, including the ESRC,
        Wellcome Trust, Capita, Hunter Foundation, Beatson Cancer Charity, Scottish Recovery
        Network and MCR Pathways. Fifteen students are currently receiving University awards (two
        SEAs, five Research Excellence Awards, one John Anderson Research Award, five
        International and Transatlantic Strategic Partnership awards, and two DGRSs).
2.17.   The following table illustrates the main trends in PGR enrolments and graduations. Although
        enrolments fell at the start of the period, they increased in 2016 and this was maintained.
        We expect the number of graduations to rise as our 2016 and 2017 entrants approach
        completion.

                    2014      2015       2016       2017      2018       2019      2020      Total
  Enrolments          6         1          8         7          7          9         5        43
                  2013/14 2014/15 2015/16         2016/17    2017/18 2018/19 2019/20         Total
  Graduations         5         3          3         1          5         2.7        6       25.7



                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.18.   The School is associated with the SGSSS’s Social Work and Social Policy and Socio-Legal
        Studies and Criminology pathways. G. MacIntyre and Greener have contributed to SGSSS
        training schemes and Greener was Associate Director in 2015/16. We have received 12
        ESRC-funded scholarships, including both student- and supervisor-led awards. We have
        also developed close relationships with non-academic partners to support collaborative
        applications. Sime’s relationship with Volunteer Scotland and Deeming’s collaboration with
        ScotCen have both generated ESRC-funded collaborative awards.
2.19.   All PhD students have a primary and secondary supervisor. The two supervisors normally
        take equal responsibility for student supervision. An independent reviewer participates in
        annual reviews and assesses student progress.
2.20.   The following table summarises the schedule of interim and annual reviews. These reviews
        provide an opportunity to monitor progress and identify relevant training needs and
        opportunities.


                     Month       5        10        18        24         30         36        42*
         Full-time




                     Review    Interim   Annual   Interim   Annual     Interim    Annual      Final

                     Present     S        S&R       S        S&R          S        S&R        S&R

                     Month       11       21        33        46         55         71        84*
         Part-time




                     Review    Interim   Annual   Interim   Annual     Interim    Annual      Final

                     Present     S        S&R       S        S&R          S        S&R        S&R

        Key: S: Supervisors; S&R: Supervisors and reviewer.
        * Or six months prior to anticipated date of submission


2.21.   We aim to provide all students with appropriate facilities. All students are allocated desk
        space in the Faculty’s Graduate School, alongside free printing and photocopying. The
        Graduate School has a small pool of loanable laptops. All PhD students belong to at least
        one of the School’s research clusters and are invited to participate in events such as writing
        retreats and annual research awaydays. The PGR Director organises a regular postgraduate
        seminar and a separate awayday for students to present their work.
2.22.   As members of the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, postgraduate research
        students are eligible for financial support for conference attendance. They may also receive
        additional funding from the University Travel Fund. The University has a hardship fund for
        students experiencing financial difficulty.
2.23.   All students participate in the Faculty’s Research Skills Programme (RSP) and the
        University’s Postgraduate Certificate in Researcher Professional Development (RPDP). The
        RSP was developed by Sime and provides introductory training in literature reviewing, the
        use of qualitative and quantitative methods, academic writing, engagement and impact. The
        RPDP enables students to accumulate credits across four domains mapped onto the
        Researcher Development Framework. These include Knowledge and intellectual abilities;
        Personal effectiveness; Research governance and organisation; and Engagement, influence
        and impact.


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.24.   Our students have used the opportunity provided by SGSSS membership to access specialist
        training on topics including the use of visual methods, the analysis of emotions, feminist
        research methods, and research innovation and creativity. Students have also participated
        in training provided by external organisations such as IMISCOE and the British Library.


Equality and diversity
2.25.   The School recognises the importance of equality and diversity and aims to comply with all
        relevant University policies, including the Equality and Diversity Policy, the Equality and
        Diversity Strategy Committee Policy on LGBT+ students and staff, and the Disability Policy.
2.26.   We encourage applications from currently under-represented groups and have introduced a
        number of changes into our application procedures, including changes to advertisement texts
        and marketing tactics, in order to increase the number of female applicants. The University
        is currently exploring a range of options, including anonymised shortlisting, to reduce the
        impact of unconscious bias and candidates declaring a disability are guaranteed an interview
        if they meet all essential criteria. Individuals from BAME backgrounds are currently under-
        represented within both the School and the University and the University has established a
        Race Equality Working Group to address this. It also forms part of the remit of our own
        Gender Equality and Diversity Committee.
2.27.   We aim to ensure that all staff are able to attend appropriate conferences and other
        development activities (paras. 2.10-2.11). In allocating conference funds, priority is given to
        early-career staff who are less likely to have access to their own funds. We recognise that
        some staff have caring or other responsibilities which may impede conference attendance
        and aim to provide support to help overcome this.
2.28.   Female staff have been historically-underrepresented at more senior levels and we have
        established a Women in Social Work and Social Policy network to help address this. Staff
        involved in assessing research outputs have undertaken equality and diversity training and
        we have established a Gender Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Group to identify areas for
        further improvement.
2.29.   We have introduced a number of measures to help ensure that colleagues do not experience
        discrimination as a result of personal characteristics. In addition to the Family-Friendly
        Research Leave Policy (para. 2.13), colleagues who have experienced long-term sickness
        can return to work on a phased basis and we operate a Compressed Hours Policy for staff
        who wish to concentrate working hours within a smaller number of days. Since 2016, one
        colleague has taken family-friendly research leave and two are currently working compressed
        hours. We have also introduced flexible working arrangements for other School members.
2.30.   Two of our current Research Cluster leads are female and two male. Both men and women
        have acted as Directors of Research and KE during the current review period. Our Research
        and KE Committee contains two male and four female academics and our School
        Management Team includes four men and eleven women.
2.31.   Since 2014, six women have been promoted to Senior Lecturer, Reader or Professor, and
        one man was promoted from Reader to Professor (para. 2.8). We have also appointed 1
        male Professor and 4 female Professors. These changes have resulted in a more balanced
        academic staffing structure, as shown below:




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       2019/20                  Male                     Female                       All
                           N           %             N            %            N            %
       Grade 8             2         50.00          2          50.00          4         100.00
       Grade 9             1         14.29          6          85.71          7         100.00
       Grade 10            1        100.00          0           0.00          1         100.00
       Professor           2         28.57          5          71.43          7         100.00
                           6         31.58         13          68.42         19         100.00

2.32. The School attaches considerable importance to health and wellbeing. We aim to promote
      a culture in which all staff feel valued and are treated with dignity and respect. If staff are
      experiencing difficulties, they are encouraged to speak to their mentor, line manager or Head
      of School. The University’s Occupational Health Service also provides support, if
      appropriate.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research funding
3.1.   The School has benefited historically from its ability to generate comparatively small amounts
       of funding from different funders. This has helped to cement relationships with local and
       national government and third-sector organisations and promote research impact. However,
       we have also placed increasing emphasis on efforts to secure larger awards from research
       councils, overseas funders and major research charities. The number of such applications
       increased from 9 in 2013/14 to 21 in 2019/20 and the average value per application increased
       by more than 58% over the same period.
3.2.   These applications have generated substantial awards from prestigious UK and international
       funders, including the ESRC (Piacentini [£631K], Sime [£341K], Weaver [£140K]), UKPRP
       (Smith [£624K]), British Academy (Sime [£79K]), Royal Society of Edinburgh (Meer
       [£299K]), Leverhulme Trust (Piacentini [£44K], Jardine [£71K]), Wellcome Trust (Harris
       [£244K]), Wallenberg Foundation (Harris [SEK1.1M]) and European Commission (Quinn
       [£405K]). Other awards have been obtained from central and local government, the NHS
       and third-sector organisations.
3.3.   We support staff in developing grant applications in a variety of ways, including writing
       retreats. Our research leave policy encourages staff to set time aside for grant applications.
       Our Strategic Development Fund can be used to support pump-priming activities, such as
       scoping, pilot research and planning meetings (para. 2.10). Applications for external funding
       are reviewed internally prior to submission. Our staff mentoring scheme (para. 2.6) has
       enabled senior staff to help recently-appointed colleagues, including Weaver (ESRC Future
       Leaders’ Award) and Jardine (Leverhulme Early-Career Fellowship), to obtain prestigious
       grants at early stages of their careers.
3.4.   We also encourage staff to collaborate with colleagues across both the Faculty and the
       University in the development of large-scale collaborative applications. Harris led an
       application for funding under the What Works Scotland initiative, and Sime led a later
       application for an ESRC Research Centre. We also encourage colleagues to collaborate
       with staff from other institutions. Smith worked with colleagues from the Universities of
       Edinburgh, Leeds, Manchester, Newcastle and Sheffield, together with the Scottish
       Government, to obtain funding for research into the evaluation of health-related social

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       policies. Piacentini’s ESRC-funded research into post-Soviet incarceration practices
       involves collaboration with partners at the Universities of Glasgow and Nazarbayev, as well
       as the National Research University Higher School of Economics (Moscow). Harris worked
       with colleagues from the London School of Hygiene and the Universities of Birmingham and
       Edinburgh to secure funding from the Wellcome Trust (for research into the history of the
       NHS). His collaboration with colleagues from the University of Umeå led to funding from the
       Wallenberg Foundation (for research into the history of morbidity).
3.5.   UoA members have also contributed to the development of a number of University Strategic
       Partnerships and have used these to develop successful applications for research funding.
       In 2015, Quinn coordinated a successful Horizon 2020 application with colleagues from two
       of the University’s Strategic Partners, the City University of New York (CUNY) and New York
       University (NYU). The project also includes colleagues from Illinois University of Technology,
       Yale University and Ulm University, and addresses a series of issues associated with the
       marginalisation of people with mental health problems in both Europe and North America.
3.6.   We have a long track record of collaboration with a variety of public and voluntary agencies,
       reflecting our commitment to social work training as well as research. Many of these links
       have also led to new funding successes. For example, Kendrick secured funding from the
       Scottish Government for research into the development of care services, and McCarry,
       Donaldson and McGoldrick obtained Scottish Government funding for research into
       Gender-Based Violence. Greener built on the School’s longstanding relationship with Kibble
       Education and Care Centre to develop research into Adverse Childhood Experiences, and
       this has led to further Scottish Government funding. Quinn has received a series of awards
       from NHS Scotland and has also collaborated with the Mental Health Foundation, and Paul
       has received funding from a local hospice. Stewart and Weaver have received funding from
       different local authorities. Jones has received funding from Adoption UK. Miller and Weaver
       have received funding from the Good Shepherd Centre (which provides live-in services for
       vulnerable young people) and the Robertson Trust (a Glasgow-based charitable funding
       agency) respectively.


Organisational infrastructure
3.7.   As part of a challenging but supportive research environment, the School organises a regular
       programme of research seminars and workshops. These are structured around the interests
       of specific research clusters but are open to all and include both internal and external
       speakers. They provide opportunities for the exchange of ideas, feedback on research
       papers, and support for collaborative activities. Including external speakers helps to develop
       and reinforce relationships with potential partners and seminars are also open to non-
       academic participants.
3.8.   Within the School, research activity is managed by the Director of Research and KE, working
       with the School’s KE Coordinator and reporting directly to the Head of School. The Director
       of Research and KE oversees the development of the School’s R & KE strategy;
       disseminates information about funding opportunities and encourages the development of
       cross-School applications; and has overall responsibility for the review of funding
       applications. The KE Coordinator coordinates information about KE activities across the
       School; disseminates information about funding opportunities and works with the Director of
       Research and KE to coordinate impact activities.
3.9.   The Director of Research and KE chairs the School’s Research and KE Committee. In
       addition to the KE Coordinator, this also includes representatives of each of the four
       Research Clusters, together with the PGR Director, the Internationalisation Coordinator, and
       representatives of the Research and KE Centres. The research clusters ensure the presence


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        of a critical mass of researchers in each area. The individual clusters organise research
        seminars and workshops and provide launching pads for research applications. They also
        provide a pool of knowledgeable peer reviewers for applications and papers.
3.10.   The Director of Research and KE also represents the School on the Faculty’s Research and
        KE Committee (FRaKEC). This provides a forum for the exchange of ideas with other
        Research Directors and helps to coordinate research and KE activity across the Faculty. The
        Committee is chaired by the Vice-Dean (Research) and also coordinates activities with the
        University’s Research and KE Committee.


Research support
3.11.   As part of the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, the School benefits from the
        support provided by the School Manager and by members of the Faculty’s Research and KE
        Team (RaKET) and IT team. The School Manager is responsible for monitoring research
        budgets and the Faculty IT team provides support with both hardware and software
        requirements. RaKET provides advice and support for all aspects of research funding,
        including costing, submissions to funders, award management, consultancy, conference
        organisation, seminars, short courses and CPD initiatives. These arrangements are
        supported at University level by the University’s IT team, Research and KE Services (RKES)
        and the Innovation and Industry Engagement Directorate. The University IT team provides
        support for the provision of online services, data sharing (via Strathcloud), data management,
        and dissemination (via the University’s research information portal [PURE] and digital
        repository [Strathprints]). RKES provides additional support for the costing and submission
        of applications, disseminates information about funding opportunities, coordinates cross-
        University research initiatives, and negotiates contracts. The Innovation and Industry
        Directorate is responsible for intellectual property rights and provides advice and support for
        impact activities, including efforts to promote the use of ‘toolkits’ and social enterprise
        activities.
3.12.   The School also benefits from access to the facilities provided by Scotland’s third largest
        University library, the John Anderson Library. In addition to an extensive collection of books
        and journals, the Library also provides access to a wide range of data sources and official
        publications, including publications relating to our core areas of Social Policy, Social Work
        and Criminology. Staff benefit from reciprocal access to the Universities of Glasgow and
        Edinburgh libraries. The Andersonian Library holds a number of relevant archives, including
        papers relating to the history of adult and community education, occupational health (with
        specific reference to asbestosis and mining diseases), rural and urban planning (the Patrick
        Geddes papers), community action, disability legislation, and women’s rights and socialism
        (the Sutherland papers).
3.13.   During the current review period, the University has worked with local government to develop
        new ways of understanding cities. In 2013, the City of Glasgow received an award of £24M
        from InnovateUK to explore novel ways of using technology and data to make urban life safer,
        smarter and more sustainable. The University was integrally associated with this initiative
        and has used money from Future City Glasgow to establish the City Observatory. This is a
        tool that uses data to understand cities in new ways and develop innovative approaches to
        solving urban problems. The Observatory is hosted by the IFC (para. 1.9), which is housed
        within our state-of-the-art Technology and Innovation Centre. As Depute Director, Rogerson
        played a leading role in the Institute’s development.




                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Supporting impact
3.14. The School also benefits from its location in the centre of Glasgow and its ability to take
      advantage of University facilities to organise conferences, workshops and other public
      engagement events. The University hosts the Scottish Universities Insight Institute,
      supporting knowledge-exchange programmes which provide insight into the substantial
      issues facing Scotland and the wider world. Members of the School have organised a
      number of events at the Institute, including a conference on the future of Scottish social policy
      after the Referendum on Scottish Independence (Meer and Harris), the concept of stigma
      (Kendrick), and issues relating to migration and poverty (Sime).


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Supporting research collaborations
4.1.   We have offered Visiting Professorships and Honorary Research Fellowships to a number of
       key research partners, including Professor Victoria Stanhope (NYU), Iris Elliott (Mental
       Health Foundation) and Catherine-Rose Stocks-Rankin (Public Health England). These
       appointments have been particularly important in developing research in Health and
       Wellbeing. Our collaboration with Stanhope has contributed to the success of the
       Strathclyde-led Citizenship, Recovery and Inclusive Society Partnership (CRISP).
4.2.   We have also sought to build and maintain both national and international collaborations
       through participation in networks and conferences. Hafford-Letchfield founded and
       coordinated the International Social Work and Sexuality Network, with international
       conferences in Switzerland and Canada. Harris’s participation in an international network
       of health researchers led to a special issue of the History of the Family on mortality change.
4.3.   Research in Health and Wellbeing has been strengthened by Smith’s leadership of the
       SIPHER (System-science Informed Public Health and Economic Research for Non-
       communicable Disease Prevention) consortium. This collaboration, involving researchers
       from the Universities of Edinburgh, Leeds, Manchester, Newcastle and Sheffield, generated
       a UKPRP award of £624K.
4.4.   Research in Criminal and Social Justice has been reinforced by membership of the SCCJR.
       Piacentini and Weaver are Associate Directors and Bailey-Noblett, Gavin, Simanovic
       (PhD students), Gillon, Jardine, Lightowler and Simanovic (PhD student) are members.
       Piacentini’s collaboration with Gavin Slade (Universities of Glasgow and Nazarbayev)
       generated an ESRC award of £631K for research into post-Soviet prisons.
4.5.   We also encourage colleagues to develop new links through academic visits. The
       opportunity to develop new links is a key criterion in the administration of the Faculty
       Conference Fund (para. 2.10) and colleagues have visited Universities in Shanghai and
       Nanchang with the aim of developing links for both teaching and research.


User engagement
4.6.   Meer and Harris organised a special conference for academics and practitioners to discuss
       the social-policy implications of Scotland’s Independence Referendum. Deeming organised
       a dissemination event for local schools as part of the ESRC’s Festival of Science. He
       subsequently wrote an ESRC blog on ‘The makings of a successful Festival event’.
4.7.   We have also developed close relationships with organisations who are not only research-
       users but also research partners. Jardine co-founded the Scottish Prisons Advocacy
       Research Collective with other Scottish criminologists and members of the Barlinnie Prison

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Reading Group. Rogerson worked with local authorities and citizens’ groups in India,
        Australia, Canada, the USA, Brazil, Mexico, Uganda, South Africa and the Philippines.
        Quinn and G. MacIntyre work with people who have experienced mental health problems to
        examine a range of health-related issues.
4.8.    We have also developed closer links with research-users by including them on advisory
        bodies and steering groups. The Equally Safe projects’ advisory groups included
        representatives from NUS Scotland, Dartington Research Unit, Glasgow and Clyde Rape
        Crisis Centre, the British Council’s Gender Equality Research Team and Scottish Women’s
        Aid. We also provide advice and consultancy to various public bodies (e.g. Sime advises
        Glasgow City Council on poverty issues). The annual Kilbrandon Lectures provide additional
        opportunities for the establishment of research links.

Wider impact
4.9.    Quinn participated in a series of dissemination events organised by the World Health
        Organisation to launch a global mental health campaign. He has also disseminated research
        findings at Arts Festivals and participated in events organised by research partners at Illinois
        Institute of Technology to encourage people with mental health problems to disclose them to
        family members, friends and colleagues. Hafford-Letchfield has provided practice guides
        and podcasts relating to LGBT+ ageing for Community Care Inform and Research in Practice.
        Her collaboration with Pink News led to a national summit on the needs of LGBT people in
        later life. Fawcett has worked with Government agencies in Australia, India and South
        Korea. Sime’s research into the challenges facing young migrants in the UK has been
        featured by the Guardian, Channel 4 and the BBC, and she has organised two art exhibitions
        – with more than 10,000 attendees – to discuss public attitudes to migration.
4.10.   Our research has had significant impacts on practice in relation to gender-based violence,
        adoption, support for children in care, and the rehabilitation of prisoners. Research
        undertaken by McCarry and colleagues, as part of the Equally Safe projects, led to the
        development of a toolkit which is now being implemented by several Scottish Universities
        (para. 1.23). Jones’ research will enable Adoption UK to develop a national post-adoption
        service to meet the needs of newly-formed and established adoptive families. The Scottish
        Government commissioned Greener to develop a toolkit which will enable providers to find
        appropriate placements for children in care. Steckley’s co-authored study of residential
        childcare practices has been adopted by training programmes in England, Scotland, Canada,
        Chile and Australia. Sime has provided training for SATEAL and is now a Board member.
        Hafford-Letchfield’s research into LGBT inclusion in care homes was cited by the Care
        Quality Commission and led to several keynote addresses. She has contributed to training
        activities in Ireland, Slovenia and the Netherlands and participated in a UK working group,
        organised by the Social Care Institute for Excellence (SCIE), on social work leadership. She
        was on the BASW Steering Group which developed knowledge, skills and capability
        benchmark statements for social work with older people. Deeming has advised the
        Vincentian Partnership on the introduction of a Universal Basic Income in Ireland and
        Weaver’s research has encouraged important innovations in prisoner-rehabilitation.
4.11. Our research has also influenced local, national and international policy developments. Sime
      gave evidence to the All-Party Parliamentary Group on a Better Brexit for Young People and
      the Scottish Parliament’s Equalities and Human Rights Committee. Paul has advised the
      Scottish Government on public health approaches to palliative care. Rogerson was Legacy
      Research Coordinator for Glasgow City Council and the Scottish Government and his
      research into the legacy of major sporting events has influenced municipal approaches to
      urban development. His work on ‘smart cities and low skills’ influenced urban policy
      developments in Asia. Kendrick and CELCIS staff were central to two key consultation

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        phases that shaped the remit and composition of the Scottish Child Abuse Inquiry, the
        Scottish government’s commitment to the Statutory Financial Redress Scheme, and the
        implementation of an Advance Payment Scheme. Hafford-Letchfield gave evidence to the
        House of Commons Select Committee on Women and Equalities during the UK
        Government’s enquiry into LGBT rights. Miller’s research contributed to the passage of the
        Social Services and Wellbeing (Wales) Act, 2014. Weaver’s work on the barriers to
        employment faced by ex-prisoners influenced the drafting of the Management of Offenders
        (Scotland) Act, 2019.

Disciplinary contribution
4.11.   Deeming and Smith have served on the UK Social Policy Association’s Executive
        Committee, and Weaver and Piacentini are Associate Directors of the SCCJR. UoA
        members have also taken the lead in organising SUII seminar series, the annual conference
        of the Scottish Institute for Residential Child Care, and an international seminar programme
        on ‘Coproducing justice’.
4.12.   Several UoA members have edited academic journals or served on Editorial Boards.
        Greener edited Social Policy and Administration; Harris coedited the Voluntary Sector
        Review; Fawcett is Editor-in-Chief for Gender Studies for Social Sciences; Piacentini co-
        edits Criminology and Criminal Justice; Smith edits Evidence and Policy; Steckley edited
        the Scottish Journal of Residential Child Care; and Weaver is Associate Editor of Criminology
        and Criminal Justice. Deeming is the Book Reviews Editor for the Journal of Social Policy
        and sits on the Editorial Board of the Journal of Sociology. Weaver has sat on the Editorial
        Boards of Eurovista: Probation and Community Justice and the Howard Journal of Criminal
        Justice and several colleagues, including Smith, Weaver, Harris, Steckley, and Hafford-
        Letchfield, have edited special issues.
4.13.   UoA members have refereed papers for over fifty academic journals, covering not only social
        policy and social work, but also child and youth studies, criminology, economics and
        economic history, education, epidemiology and health-services research, gender studies,
        geography, gerontology, historical and contemporary demography, and sociology. We have
        also reviewed proposals and manuscripts for academic publishers, including Cambridge
        University Press, Jessica Kingsley, Manchester University Press, Palgrave Macmillan, Policy
        Press, Polity, and Routledge.
4.14.   We have contributed to our disciplines by serving as members of the ESRC Peer Review
        College (Deeming, Harris, Sime) and by undertaking reviews for the AHRC, British
        Academy, Cancer UK, Carnegie Trust, Leverhulme Trust, MRC, NIHR (School for Social
        Care Research), Nuffield Foundation, Scottish Government, and Wellcome Trust. We have
        also undertaken reviews for the Academy of Finland, the Australian and Dutch Research
        Councils, the Hong Kong Institute of Education, Belgium’s National Fund for Scientific
        Research, Chile’s National Agency for Research and Development, the National Science
        Centre of Poland, and the University of Oulu’s Eudaimonia Institute.
4.15.   We have also contributed to disciplinary development by examining PhDs both within the UK
        and overseas (Fawcett, Hafford-Letchfield and Harris have examined theses at
        Universities in Australia, Belgium, Italy, Malta, New Zealand and Sweden); by writing and
        contributing to textbooks (e.g. Fawcett and Pockett, Turning ideas into research; Harris’s
        chapters on the history of the British welfare state in Floud et al., eds., Cambridge Economic
        History of Modern Britain and Bochel and Daly, eds., Social Policy); and as book editors (e.g.
        Deeming, Reframing Global Social Policy and Minimum income standards; Smith, Health
        Inequalities: Critical Perspectives; Steckley, Guide to Therapeutic Child Care). Harris also
        coedited a two-volume collection of classic papers on health and the standard of living.


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Influence and esteem
4.16.   UoA members have given invited papers and keynote addresses at conferences in Canada,
        China, Denmark, Finland, Ghana, Indonesia, Ireland, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway,
        Romania, South Korea, Spain, Sweden and the USA, and been invited discussants at
        conferences in Germany and the USA. We have also made academic visits to Universities
        in Australia, Chile, France and Sweden. Piacentini is a Research Associate at the University
        of Oxford, Hafford-Letchfield holds a Research Fellowship at the University of Stellenbosch,
        and Quinn holds honorary appointments at New York and Yale Universities.
4.17.   Weaver received a best article award from the Probation Journal in 2014 and was awarded
        the British Society of Criminology’s Best Book Award in 2015. Piacentini received
        Theoretical Criminology’s ‘Best Article’ prize in 2015. Smith won the BMA’s Best Book
        Award for 2016 and the Cambridge University Press Prize for Excellence in Social Policy
        Scholarship for 2017. Steckley won the Kay McDougall prize for the best paper in the British
        Journal of Social Work in 2018.
4.18.   UoA members have also been recognised in other ways. Smith received a Philip
        Leverhulme Prize Award in Sociology and Social Policy in 2014. Meer and Sime were
        elected to the Young Academy of Scotland and Harris became a Fellow of the Academy of
        Social Sciences. Eccles is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and Piacentini is a Fellow
        of the Royal Society of Edinburgh and AcademiaNet, an EU Network of Women Leaders in
        European Academia.




                                                                                           Page 16
