Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Institution: University of Exeter

  Unit of Assessment: 15 Archaeology

  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Archaeology at Exeter (UoE) is distinctively international-facing, spanning Europe, the Americas,
and Central and South Asia, with additional reach into East Asia, Africa and Australia (Fig. 1). Our
research is organised into three broad groupings related to bioarchaeology, material culture and
landscapes. Our strategy for this REF cycle was to capitalise upon our position within the sector
and institution — embedded within the Humanities yet facing the Sciences — to sustainably build
capacity in theoretically informed archaeological science and museum-based research. We have
expanded our Category A staff by 4.8 FTE (42.9% increase) and more than doubled our research
income (£1,814,703 to £4,285,817) and PhD awards (23.8 to 47.6). This expansion evidences the
success of our strategy, which was achieved against a challenging environment for archaeology
departments nationally.




Fig. 1: Locations where our staff/PGRs undertook primary fieldwork or materials analysis during
this REF period (not including honorary staff).

Our decision making is driven from the ground up via our Discipline Strategy Group, which
comprises the Head of Department, the Directors of Research, Impact, PGR studies and
Education, as well as two staff mentors (Academic Leads). Our Department sits within the College
of Humanities which provides strategic support and investment in equipment, infrastructure,
scholarships and student internships (see section 3), but also benefits from considerable
interactions and additional facilities across the wider University, as actively encouraged by UoE’s
leadership. Building upon the results of REF2014, which positioned the Department nationally top
10 in terms of overall 4*+3* (joint 3rd) and GPA (10th), we have boosted our income by targeting a
broader array of research council and charitable income sources, alumni-funding and international
partnerships schemes (see section 3). We have also maintained our profile of medium-sized and
smaller grants which act as springboards for further substantial bids.

Since REF2014, we have developed and extended our research groupings: ‘Bioarchaeology’,
‘Material Culture and Social Agency’; and ‘Landscape Archaeology’.



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
BIOARCHAEOLOGY:
During the REF period all three subfields of bioarchaeology (plants, animals, humans) have been
strengthened by appointments. Recruitment of Sykes in 2018 gave us critical mass in
zooarchaeology and built upon earlier bioarchaeology staff investments (McKenzie, Evis, Pryor)
and expansion of key lab facilities. Bioarcheology epitomises the growth of archaeological sciences
in our Department, matching UoE’s overall science strategy involving significant investment in
STEM/M to address critical topics (climate change, sustainability, food security and health) while
maintaining its humanities reputation. Our expertise in straddling HASS/STEM/M is encapsulated
by the activities of the Centre for Human-Animal-Environment Bioarchaeology (HumAnE),
established, during this REF period, and co-directed by Sykes and Outram (section 2).

Animal-plant-human relationships continue to be a major focus of Bioarchaeology. This is
exemplified by Iriarte and colleagues’ identification of a third global event of rice domestication in
Amazonia (Nature Ecology and Evolution 2018; ERC PAST), showing that the Bolivian Amazon
was a hotspot for early plant cultivation. The work demonstrates that ever since their arrival,
humans have caused profound alteration to Amazonian landscapes, with lasting repercussions for
habitat heterogeneity and species conservation (Nature 2020). Outram’s research has included
ground-breaking work on early horse herding (Science 2018, ERC PEGASUS) combining
fieldwork, zooarchaeological analyses and ancient genomic data, and the demonstration of
honeybee exploitation by Neolithic communities using lipid residue analysis (Nature 2015). Recent
scientific-led transformations in palaeoeconomic interpretations are interrogated in his Subsistence
and Society in Prehistory (CUP, 2019), whereas Sykes addresses key bio-cultural issues of
human-animal interactions in Beastly Questions (Bloomsbury 2014). She has other major
publications on ancient deer management (STAR 2016) and chicken husbandry (Molecular Biology
and Evolution 2017), exploring their legacies for modern biodiversity and food security (GCRF,
AHRC).

Our appointment of Palaeolithic specialist Pryor in 2017 gave the Bioarchaeology group greater
depth with scientific expertise in hunter-gatherer palaeobotany (Antiquity 2020) alongside isotopic
reconstruction of paleoenvironments and mobility (J. Arch. Sci. Rep., STAR 2020). McKenzie
published her monograph on Life and Death in Medieval Gaelic Ireland: The Skeletons from
Ballyhanna while also exploring the relationship between literary and bioarchaeological
approaches to slavery (Interdisciplinary Science Reviews 2018, AHRC funded). She has continued
to combine bioarchaeology and medical humanities through her grant ‘Care, the great human
tradition: a multi-disciplinary collaborative exploration of family care across time and culture’
(Wellcome Trust). Forensic archaeology and anthropology were strengthened with the hiring of
Evis (initially as 0.5 FTE, uplifted to full time in 2019). Her monograph Forensic Archaeology: The
Application of Comparative Excavation Methods and Recording Systems is an internationally key
reference and she has continued to carry out research into forensic grave excavation (STAR
2016).

The creative merging of HASS-STEM/M approaches is core to all our Bioarchaeology research.
For instance, our AHRC project ‘Warhorse’ combines Outram’s expertise in equine
zooarchaeology with Creighton’s understanding of medieval landscape and material culture,
alongside collaboration with historians (UEA) and geneticists (CNRS via the ERC PEGASUS
project). Similarly, Sykes’s AHRC Easter project unites zooarchaeology, morphometrics and
isotope analysis with genetics (Oxford) and linguistics (Leicester). We are increasingly moving to a
model of engaged transdisciplinary research to address real-world problems of human wellbeing
(McKenzie), biodiversity, food security and economic sustainability (Iriarte and Sykes).

These activities dovetail with undergraduate modules and MSc programmes in Bioarchaeology and
Experimental Archaeology, ensuring this research group is relevant at all levels. Within this REF
period, group members have published papers in general science journals, including Science,
Nature, Nature Communications, Nature Plants, PNAS, Nature Ecology and Evolution, Cell and
Scientific Reports, in addition to specialist journals and authorship of monographs (CUP,
Bloomsbury, Four Courts Press, Archaeopress), so as to reach a diverse readership.


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

MATERIAL CULTURE AND SOCIAL AGENCY:
This research group has provided leadership within the field of experimental archaeology and has
notable strengths in inorganic archaeometry (including partnership with materials labs at Cranfield
University), theoretically informed and interdisciplinary approaches to material culture in its
landscape setting, and impactful research in modern museum presentation.

Hurcombe’s monograph Perishable Material Culture in Prehistory (Routledge 2014) identifies the
‘missing majority’, exploring how resources in the landscape are seasonally exploited through
‘tending the wild’, whilst taking into account environmental variation. This research takes a
distinctive approach to the challenge of understanding organic material culture, through
experimental archaeology, inorganic traces of processing organic materials (e.g. impressions,
usewear, skueomorphs). Hurcombe currently works on perishable items from Neolithic and Bronze
Age Germany (THEFBO project).

Juleff carried out experimental geochemical survey in roundhouses (J. Arch. Sci. 2014) and
continues her work on landscapes of metallurgy in Sri Lanka and India. She led the UKIERI project
Climate and Culture: Environmental contextualisation of the development of human society in
Western and Central India and Exeter’s GCRF Facilitation Fund (FF) -funded Walking Heritage into
Future Cities. Morkot’s chapter on The End of the Kingdom of Israel: a View from the Nile Valley
addresses the current controversy about the political geography of late-Libyan and early-Kushite
Egypt, and he will continue working on external relations of Egypt, particularly from the Late
Bronze Age to Roman Periods.

Lazzari looked at decentralised networks of artefact production and circulation in the southern
Andes (Cambridge Archaeological Journal 2016, PNAS 2017). Examining social landscapes of
connectivity, her research bridges the gap between landscape and material culture research. She
hosted two international workshops ‘Living with water: challenging the water insecurity paradigm in
the Andes’ (Exeter GCRF/FF, 2018), and the QUEX workshop ‘Living pasts, open futures:
developing transnational collaboration on cultural heritage, identities and landscape sustainability’
(2019). Herold’s Leverhulme Trust ‘Glass Networks’ project similarly combines cutting-edge
archaeometry of inorganic material culture to understand material culture circulation within
landscapes.


LANDSCAPE ARCHAEOLOGY:
The strategic aim of for this REF cycle was to expand beyond our long-standing strengths in
wetland archaeology. Given our expertise in classical to medieval landscapes and interdisciplinary
working, we identified social agency and anthropogenic landscape change as key areas for
research. In addition, we have been pioneering the application of technologies and archaeological
science to the study of landscapes, including GIS, geophysics, LiDAR, aerial photography and
environmental reconstruction.

Rippon has taken a lead role in this research group with his major publications such as Fields of
Britannia; Kingdom, Civitas and County; Planning in the Early Medieval Landscape (OUP,
Leverhulme funded), and grants: AHRC Manifestations of Empire; Exeter: Place in Time
(augmented by a College of Humanities PhD studentship); HLF Understanding Landscapes.

Creighton’s research on medieval landscapes expanded into conflict archaeology through a
Leverhulme-funded project on the archaeology of twelfth-century warfare, which produced two
monographs: The Anarchy (Liverpool UP, 2016) and Castles, Siegeworks and Settlements
(Archaeopress 2017), a theme strengthened by Herold’s (ed.) Fortified Settlements in Early
Medieval Europe (Oxbow 2016). Creighton, Herold and Rippon’s research is complementary:
Herold addresses trade networks and landscape transformation in early medieval Europe,
Creighton focuses on later medieval elite landscapes through a combined archaeological-historical
approach, while Rippon integrates cultural and environmental data to explore the evolution of
working landscapes.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Oltean’s innovative use of LiDAR, remote sensing and GIS has provided fine-grained evidence
concerning landscapes of Roman provinces. Notably her work has shed light on conquest
strategies and political discourse in Roman Dacia (EU Archeolandscapes Europe, JRA 2017).
Oltean’s collaboration with Fonte (Marie Curie Fellow) has expanded our landscape research to
Roman Iberia. Landscape Archaeology interfaces with Iriarte’s research on prehistoric human
impact on lowland South American landscapes funded by ERC Consolidator Pre-Columbian
Amazon-Scale Transformations and AHRC-FAPESP Je Landscapes of Southern Brazil. His
transdisciplinary work has charted unexplored regions of Amazonia, documenting earth-building
societies along its entire southern rim and predicting 5 million people in pre-Columbian times
(Nature Communications 2018); revealed the lasting repercussions of polyculture agroforestry on
Amazonian Dark Earths and the so-called ‘Geoglyphs’ region (PNAS 2014, Nature Plants 2018);
explored the role of climate in cultural developments across Amazonia (Nature Ecology and
Evolution 2019), and investigated the human footprint on the expansion of Araucaria forests in
southern Brazil (Scientific Reports 2018). Hampson’s recent appointment adds expertise in the
landscape archaeology of rock art (Routledge monograph 2016), a topic of expanding interest
given Iriarte’s team’s recent high-profile art discoveries in Columbian Amazonia.

ONGOING STRATEGY:
We will strengthen our onward development by uniting researchers from different disciplines and
backgrounds (non-HE, third sector, NGOs and communities) to explore key questions of the
human past, present and future. Such ambition requires a multi-scalar strategy.

At the local level, we will capitalise upon our positioning between the arts and sciences. Building
upon existing research with HASS colleagues (e.g. UKRI, Wellcome Trust and ERC-funded
projects with Anthropology, Classics, History, Islamic Studies, Theology) we will facilitate mutually
beneficial collaborations with STEM/M researchers (including Biosciences, Geography, Medicine
and Mining Engineering). Access to powerful resources will be enabled through engagement with
UoE’s research institutes (section 3). Our laboratory facilities and equipment will be enhanced
through strategic investment to strengthen grant applications and meet the demands of our
increasingly diverse PGR community. To sustainably maintain strong PGR numbers we will
position ourselves within the South, West and Wales AHRC DTP, explore collaborative initiatives
with institutions in the UK and abroad, and match-fund PhDs in collaboration with external bodies
with research needs (section 2). We will continue to override the research-teaching dichotomy by
genuinely involving our taught students in publishable research. This policy has already paid
dividends in grant capture, the delivery of research objectives and the enrichment of our research
community, as well as attracting strong taught cohorts of national and international students.

Nationally, we will increase our leadership of research agendas by demonstrating how STEM/M-
HASS collaboration can achieve truly impactful research (e.g. through the activities of the HumAnE
Bioarchaeology Research Centre). We will nurture an outward-facing research culture that
embraces international connections and transdisciplinary communities. We boast unique strength
among UK HEIs in the Archaeology of the Americas alongside extensive worldwide networks. The
Department aims to deepen these links with their potential for diversified grant capture, global
impact and PGR recruitment.

We aim to cement our status as a beacon of impact (REF2014 ranked our impact joint 3rd
nationally by 4*+3* profile). We are determined to disseminate best practice in impact and continue
a culture where impact is embedded throughout the research process, rigorously evidenced,
engendered through partnership-building, and valued in staffing strategies and promotions. We
also value long-term, sustained impact and outreach activities extending beyond single REF
periods (section 4).

FUTURE RESEARCH GROUP PLANS:
Over the coming five years, the Bioarchaeology group will continue to coalesce around the
HumAnE Bioarchaeology Centre and push forward our agenda of conducting engaged
transdisciplinary research that unites ancient and modern bio-cultural datasets to contextualise and
mitigate modern global challenges. The group will work on the peopling of, and initial development

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of farming communities in the Americas, alongside research into human-animal relations and
human palaeopathology. Iriarte, collaborating with Outram, will develop his ERC project
LASTJOURNEY examining the dispersal of modern humans in South America during a time of
major climate and environmental change coincident with megafaunal extinctions and plant
domestication by integrating archaeology, archaeobotany, zooarchaeology, palaeoecology, ancient
environmental DNA and isotope studies. Iriarte will continue collaborating with tropical ecologists
and paleoecologists in UoE Geography (Newton Fund, ERC, GCRF). Through AHRC ‘Warhorse’,
Outram and Creighton will continue the first evidentially holistic study of medieval warhorses in
their broader social and landscape setting. This project is supported by a College of Humanities
PhD studentship, extending the project into continental Europe. Outram will also extend his
investigations into prehistoric herding in Central Asia through collaboration with Pryor related to
animal herding mobility. Sykes will lead her new transdisciplinary Wellcome Trust grant: From
'Feed the Birds' to 'Do Not Feed the Animals' investigating the drivers and consequences of animal
feeding for global human-animal-environmental health. We will continue to develop commercial
links and expertise in forensic archaeology and anthropology. A new direction for Evis relates to
period-specific studies of poisoning, whilst McKenzie will deepen her transdisciplinary
investigations of human care.

Within Material Culture and Social Agency, Hurcombe will expand her research into neglected,
plant-based, perishable clothing including ‘not woven’ textiles. She will host the International
Experimental Archaeology Conference in 2021. Lazzari will expand her previous work on ancient
social landscapes, demonstrating the need for an integrated approach to material culture
circulation and landscapes of connectivity, past and present. A new direction in Juleff’s research
involves a work package entitled Archaeological investigations on metallurgical sites in southwest
China in collaboration with a Sichuan University project aimed at understanding smelting
technologies of ferrous and non-ferrous metals and associated social change. Morkot’s ongoing
research relates to the complex legacy of 19th-century tourists and travellers in the Eastern
Mediterranean region, encompassing issues such as ‘Egyptomania’ and comparing the impact of
ancient Egypt with that of the Classical world on culture in the British Isles.

Within Landscape Archaeology, Oltean’s work will expand through collaboration with Fonte’s
Marie Curie FINISTERRAE project and his work on Roman occupation in Devon and Cornwall.
Oltean and Lazzari’s recently granted GCRF/FF project ‘Living territories: opening pathways for
sustainable communities and their cultural-natural heritage in the Andes’ combines remote
sensing, GIS, material culture and landscape research, further demonstrating our collaborative and
integrative capacity going forward. Creighton will continue to integrate human-animal relationships
with landscapes of conflict (AHRC Warhorse). Rippon will extend his work on regional identity by
exploring the character of smaller-scale early folk territories in the early medieval landscape. He
will also investigate distinctive landscapes on the fringes of the Roman and Anglo-Saxon worlds
through continued post-excavation analysis at Ipplepen (Devon) including aDNA and isotopic
analyses on AD 5th- to 8th-century skeletons.

Hampson’s (2018) appointment as Senior Lecturer in Heritage provides us with opportunity to
further develop landscape-based heritage studies (e.g. Rippon’s HLF Understanding Landscapes
Project; Juleff’s Cornish mining related Time and Tide: Heritage on the Beach) and expand it
internationally. Archaeology at Exeter has existing expertise in community heritage, both in the UK
and internationally, which complements expertise in History, Classics and Theology. Examples of
this approach include Iriarte’s ‘Cultural Heritage in the Itonama Indigenous Community, Bolivian
Amazon’, Lazzari’s ‘Cultural heritage, identities and landscape sustainability in NW Argentina’ and
Juleff’s work in the Indian Subcontinent including ‘Walking Heritage in Future Cities’ and post-
conflict archaeology in Sri Lanka. Hampson’s appointment will facilitate greater future focus and
cohesion for such work.

Over the medium-term, future research funding will sustain at healthy levels given recent high-
value grants awarded in 2018–20 and ongoing for several more years: e.g. € 2.5m ERC, £1.25m
AHRC, £1.48m Wellcome Trust. The future funding environment is uncertain, but our international


                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
strengths in a diverse portfolio of research at the HASS/STEMM/M interface put us in a strong
position to remain vibrant and competitive, both financially and intellectually, in the years to come.

OPEN ACCESS, ETHICS AND RESEARCH INTEGRITY:
In addition to our standard use of Exeter’s open access repository (ORE) for journal papers and
theses (see library, section 3), our commitment to OA is evidenced by the following indicative
examples. Outram became inaugural editor-in-chief of new OA journal Science and Technology of
Archaeological Research (STAR) in 2014. Through an institutionally funded project, ‘Tangible
Pasts: developing user-led heritage outputs for rural and indigenous communities’, Lazzari created
a digital, open access web book: http://www.saantropologia.com.ar/territorios-ancestrales/. Others,
including Juleff and Rippon, have moved to make monographs, in addition to articles, OA, and it is
standard practice for major projects to deposit data with ADS.

The College of Humanities has an Ethics Committee with departmental representation that
provides advice and ethics approval on research designs. UoE has an Ethics Code and a clear
Statement on Research Integrity in line with UKRI’s Concordat. Training is provided on research
integrity and personal data handling. Our recent research has been supported by GCRF funding
and our staff are committed to the development of equitable partnerships in all areas of their
research. Our staff are firmly engaged with decolonizing agendas through their work in heritage
and collections (Hampson, Hurcombe, Sykes), through participatory research with indigenous
peoples (e.g. Hurcombe in North America, Lazzari and Iriarte in South America) and in post-conflict
contexts (e.g. Juleff in Sri Lanka).


  2. People

All of our excellent people – from Professors and post-docs to lab staff and UGs – contribute to a
departmental culture that focuses on developing potential and confidence: of individuals, of our
discipline and in the impact of our work. We undertake mentoring at nested levels and everyone in
our community plays a multi-directional role in supporting student and staff research. Our
mentoring extends beyond our department with staff frequently called upon to support external
scholars and research partners. This includes providing advice on applications (e.g. fellowship
applicants and researcher PIs) and the management of live grants. We regularly offer free training
to external researchers, for instance through the weekend workshops organized by our HumAnE
Bioarchaeology Centre (Fig. 2).




Fig 2: The HumAnE Centre fish workshop in action (2019).



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In terms of its research community, Archaeology at UoE is a mid-sized but growing Department.
Our strategy of investment in staff has seen the FTE number of Category A staff increase by 4.8
FTE between 2012/13 and 2019/20. This modest increase is designed to be sustainable and
targeted strategic growth areas (see above), such as investment posts in bioarchaeology (Sykes,
Evis) and heritage (Hampson, on our Penryn Campus), plus strategic retirement replacements
(McKenzie, Pryor). We also currently host Fonte (Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellow). Additionally, we
capitalise upon a wider pool of archaeological expertise found in other UoAs, including Insoll and
Cooper (Arab and Islamic Studies), Isaacson, Isayev, Borg and Pitts (Classics and Ancient History)
and Loosely (Theology and Religion), who contribute to the research life of our discipline through
project collaboration, seminars, internal peer reviewing and co-supervision of PGRs.

During this period, Harding and Bradley retired but remain active as Emeritus Professors. Pryor
was appointed to maintain skills in European Prehistory, but also strategically enhances
Palaeolithic Archaeology which complements ongoing human evolution work of honorary Professor
Dennell (Nature 2018, Science 2018), but Pryor also adds molecular archaeology expertise, further
strengthening Bioarchaeology. Sykes was a strategic professorial appointment who not only
enhances Bioarchaeology through complementary zooarchaeology specialism, but also added a
strong impact agenda through the creation of the HumAnE Centre and her expertise as a GCRF
AHRC lead. In addition to College-funded study-leave (two 6-months slots p/a, which has seen
ECR staff Evis and Pryor recently supported), Creighton, Herold, Iriarte, Outram, Rippon and
Sykes have all had recent AHRC, ERC and Leverhulme grant buy-out which, from 2019/20, was
pooled to create a new 0.75 FTE Education and Scholarship lecturing position, allowing staff to
focus on those projects.

To facilitate staff development, everyone (including PDRA/Fs) has an Academic Lead. These
senior staff members have established track records in securing research grants, line-managing
PDRAs, bringing funded studentships, guiding PGRs to completion in four years, and writing major
publications. Each Lead is responsible for mentoring 6–7 members of staff, meeting with them
three times a year (one a formal personal development review). High performance in any aspect of
work, including research and impact, is rewarded at various levels to non-professorial staff through
bonuses under the University’s ‘Above and Beyond’ Scheme, as well as through salary increments
and promotion. Reward for professorial staff is handled through a biennial professorial salary
review. For all these processes appropriate EDI checks and balances are in place.

New academic staff are mentored by their Academic Lead and undertake induction plus the PG
Certificate in Academic Practice. They have reduced teaching/administration and full access to
courses/support from the Staff Learning and Development team. All early career staff are the
second supervisor for a research student (under the guidance of an experienced first supervisor).
All colleagues are supported in submitting grant applications by Research Services, Archaeology’s
Director of Research and Internal Peer Review (colleagues with established grant-winning records
give feedback on drafts). All ‘Education and Research’ job family staff receive a research
allowance (usually £1000 p/a) supporting grant preparation activity, networking, fieldwork or
conferences. Additional support can periodically be sought from the HoD or College Associate
Dean for Research from discretionary budgets. A College-wide workload modelling tool ensures
that Education and Research staff are allocated time for research. Grants with time buy-out, PGR
supervision, and administrative roles are all factored in, and specific allowances protect early
career staff from being over-burdened. All colleagues (including part-time staff) can apply for Study
Leave, which is awarded on a strategic basis, but with EDI mechanisms to ensure fair distribution.

Post-doctoral researchers enrich our department, bringing a wealth of fresh ideas and vibrancy.
Over the REF period the Department hosted 20 externally funded PDRA/Fs (discrete individuals)
who in addition to their Academic Lead are supported by the University’s Researcher Development
Team that is responsible for our obligations to the Concordat to Support the Career Development
of Researchers (e.g. through its programme of 1:1 career and professional development coaching
and its ‘Rising Stars’ programme). Destinations of our post-docs include permanent academic
positions and independent researcher fellowships, demonstrating appropriate career progression.
Archaeology has additionally hosted international researchers including, for example, a CAPES

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(Brazil) Post-Doctoral International Fellow (Dr Rafael Milheira), a CONICET (Argentina) Post-
Doctoral International Fellow (Dr Mercedes Colobig), as well as sandwich PhD students from
CAPES, Brazil (Rodrigo Angeles Flores) and Universidad Nacional de Costa Rica (Maria Rojas).

Research Postgraduates contribute massively to our community, enriching our cutting-edge,
curiosity-driven research. Our strategy for growing PGR numbers has succeeded, with completions
doubling since REF2014 (23.8 to 47.6). Completion rates are also strong, even amongst our
relatively large number of part-time students studying at distance. We have emerged from a period
of sharp growth and, as we see these students complete, our number of PGRs per staff member
has dropped slightly, but we have active strategies in place to maintain healthy numbers at a time
when traditional studentship sources are harder to come by. Initiatives that have recently boosted
PhD numbers include: a growth in matched/partner-funded PhDs (e.g. Wealden Iron Research
Group; Tewkesbury Abbey Trust; National Trust, Buckland Abbey); partnership arrangements with
the National Institute of Advanced Studies (Bangalore) and Cranfield University’s Forensic Institute
that has seen multiple split-site PhDs; strategic allocation of College of Humanities studentships to
add value to research grants (e.g. one dedicated to the AHRC Warhorse project); University NERC
quota studentship (Pryor); ERC grants with attached PhDs (Iriarte and Outram) and internationally
funded PhDs from Brazil (CNPq and CAPES, Iriarte) and Chile and Mexico (CONICyT and
CONACyT, Lazzari). Our strategy is to sustainably manage future PGR recruitment at about
current levels without compromising standards or submission rates. In addition to our own
students, externally based PhD students have spent time with us learning particular skills under
our scheme for visiting advanced students (e.g. from Boroda, Buffalo, Masaryk, São Paulo,
Sichuan Universities).

The University’s Doctoral College provides a range of training opportunities including generic skills
of value to early career scholars, specific guidance on PhD production, vivas and wellbeing.
Students undertake annual training needs audits with supervisors which frequently lead to
additional provision of Departmental workshops, a recent example being ‘Statistics for
Archaeologists using PAST, R and SPSS’.

PGRs who completed in this REF cycle displayed a wide range of employment destinations,
indicative examples being:
    Assistant Professors at Federal University of Para (Brazil), Sichuan University (China),
        Yunlin University of Science and Technology (Taiwan)
    Lecturer, University of Exeter
    British Academy Postdoctoral Fellow
    Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellow, Pompeu Fabra University
    Postdoctoral Researchers at Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology (São Paulo, Brazil),
        Central Natural Science Collections (ZNS, Halle-Wittenberg), University of Manchester.
    Curator of Prehistory, National Museum of Scotland
    NAGPRA Coordinator, University of Connecticut
    Zooarchaeologists at Oxford Archaeology East and Archaeology South-East
    International Enquiries, Wessex Archaeology
    Co-founder, Heritage Walk Calcutta

Undergraduates and master’s students are integrated into our research culture, since it
enhances their prospects as future researchers whilst augmenting our collective research power.
We have a long history of involving our students in research, often in the form of participation in
fieldwork or post-excavation analyses. We have recently augmented this by involving taught
students in research lab meetings and encouraging dissertations that form a genuine part of
research projects and might lead to publication. This is most clearly exemplified by the operation of
our HumAnE Bioarchaeology research centre, which holds regular lab meetings including staff,
PGR, PGT and UG students. Interest usually starts with 2nd year undergraduates, developing ideas
for 3rd year dissertations. Examples include isotopic studies of animal management and
movement, related to Pryor’s work on mammoths, Outram’s research into horse domestication and
Sykes’s work on translocated species. We offer many ancillary projects related to our large, funded
projects (e.g. Warhorse, Easter E.g., PAST and Animal Feeding projects) and intend to increase
                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
this activity more widely across the Department, since it invigorates research culture and provides
our students with enhanced skills and potential publications. This policy presents challenges of
funding, since such advanced project work (e.g. LA-ICP-MS machine time, Fig 3.) carries costs not
normally associated with UG work. We have successfully lobbied for increased lab budgets for
student research and strategically deployed charitable/alumni funds administered by the
University’s Global Advancement division. The College of Humanities also supports a number of
extra-curricular, paid student research internships each year, several of which we have secured
(e.g. several students undertook geophysical survey around Exeter Cathedral with Creighton,
others analysed aerial surveys of Romania with Oltean).


  A                                        B




Fig 3: Third year undergraduate Sarah Barakat (on right in A, and undertaking analysis in B)
presents her stable isotope project on Eneolithic horse teeth to a specialist conference held in
Almaty, Kazakhstan, 2019.

Our research community is fostered through regular research seminars with presentations from
both invited speakers and our own staff. Departmental Research Seminars are usually weekly
throughout term time, and are open to all staff and students, as well as local archaeologists. They
are events where different research groupings come together and ideas are cross-fertilized. We
regularly host joint seminars with the Society of Antiquaries, providing a service to Fellows in the
SW region, and host regular additional seminars related to our Centre for the Archaeology of the
Americas, as well as workshops run by our HumAnE Bioarchaeology Centre. Further seminars of
interest are hosted by the College’s Centres for Medieval Studies, Connectivity in the Roman
World, South Asian Research and Digital Humanities. Our PGRs/Post-Docs run their own regular
series ‘PG-Tips’ where they practice research presentations and sometimes invite guests.

Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity: With 9 nationalities represented in the core staff and 11 in our
community of Honorary Fellows, we are a diverse research community with strategies in place to
further strengthen in this area. The University joined the Athena Swan Charter in June 2011 and
currently holds an institutional Athena SWAN Silver Award. Both the University and the College of
Humanities have Equality and Diversity Officers and a committee to provide advice, with
equality/diversity issues being a compulsory part of induction. We are fully in line with the UoE’s
policy of narrowing the gender pay gap. Recent Professorial-level female appointment (Sykes) and
separate promotion (Hurcombe) ensure a more even gender balance within the professoriate, and
Herold and McKenzie were promoted to Senior Lecturers within the REF2021 period. We pride
ourselves in encouraging PDRA staff to develop grant bids as PI through mentoring and peer
review (e.g. Robinson, successful BA grant). The Department is currently preparing an application
to Athena Swan. Staff involved in REF output selections undertook training on bias in decision


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
making, and analysis of outputs data and evaluations have been undertaken, with adjustments
made where appropriate to ensure equity.

Seminars and social events are an important part of maintaining a healthy research culture, but
can present timetabling challenges, particularly in terms of ensuring inclusivity. Traditional seminar
series are late in the day followed by evening socialising. We have been aware that this could
exclude those with childcare needs (for example) and evening socializing venues might not suit
everybody. As such, we have rescheduled our main series to an earlier time, making it more
inclusive and ensured where possible that social interaction occurs within the normal departmental
setting, as well as in the evening. Any single solution is unlikely to suit all, but we remain mindful of
inclusivity issues.


  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Over the review period the feel and capabilities of the Department have been transformed through
the acquisition of new spaces and facilities. This generous internal investment occurred in
recognition of our substantially enhanced grant capture and in support of our vision for leadership
in engaged transdisciplinary research.

Income: During this REF period the Department has more than doubled its external research
income from £1,814,703 in REF2014 to £4,285,817. We have successfully targeted diverse
funding sources including ERC, AHRC, NERC, EPSRC, British Academy, Wellcome Trust,
UKIERI, Newton Fund, British Museum, English Heritage, Leverhulme Trust, National Geographic
Society, Heritage Lottery Fund, Society of Antiquaries, Society for Medieval Archaeology, Lower
Austria Fund and the Stein-Arnold Exploration Fund. We have demonstrated particular strength
with the EU. ERC ‘Consolidator’ €1.73 million, ‘Advanced’ €2.5 million and ‘Proof of Concept’
£149k grants have been awarded to Iriarte, whilst additional work packages from two externally
based advanced grants, NeoMilk and PEGASUS have been brought into Exeter by Outram. We
have had two Marie Skłodowska-Curie fellowships (supported by Rippon and Oltean) and EU
Culture Framework funding has also underpinned the impact work of Hurcombe related to
experimental archaeology, through the ‘OpenArch Project’, whilst the same source funded Oltean’s
participation in the ‘ArchaeoLandscapes Europe’ project.

UKRI funding includes 9 AHRC awards: £700k (Rippon –three projects), £597k
(Creighton/Outram), £388k (Iriarte), £279k (Sykes –three projects) and £10k (McKenzie).
Excavations at our field school site of Ipplepen have received funding from the British Museum
(£10k) and Devon County Council (£5.5k). This excavation forms a part of Rippon’s public
archaeology programme of research entitled Understanding Landscapes, funded by HLF (see
section 4). We have also undertaken contract research with Dartmoor National Park Authority,
CgMs Consulting, and Medieval Settlement Research Group. Charitable Trust research income
includes awards to Sykes (£1.476 million grant with £740k to Exeter) and McKenzie (Wellcome)
and Herold (Leverhulme).

Infrastructure and facilities: In the REF period we have secured £425,569 of internal funding for
investment in infrastructure and equipment (Figs. 4 & 5). We have created a bioarchaeology
laboratory dedicated to studying human and animal bone remains and housing accompanying
reference materials. Growth in that area has recently necessitated further expansion of lab space
to accommodate postgraduate and research needs. We also invested in laboratory equipment for
stable isotope sample preparation, thin-sectioning and polishing, digital X-ray, LiDAR, pXRF,
equipment to support 3D geometric morphometrics (GMM), including high speed computers (in
both staff research and PGR spaces) plus automated photogrammetry turntables, alongside
renewing, expanding and updating geophysics and GPS equipment. We are currently in the
process of procuring a benchtop SEM with EDX micro-probe, with matched funding from the
College of Humanities to support our ERC grant.



                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We now possess separate labs dedicated to ‘clean’ and chemical analyses, ‘dirty’ and ‘wet’
processes, microscopy, bioarchaeology, and experimental archaeology. Analytical equipment
includes high-specification high- and low-power microscopes with updated imaging systems used
for petrology, environmental analysis, metallurgy and usewear. We have the only European
archaeobotanical laboratory with the expertise to carry out microfossil botanical analysis of
phytoliths and starch grains from the Neotropics, and hold the largest Neotropical microbotanical
collection in Europe.




Fig. 4: Selection of investments in new bioarchaeology facilities within this REF period.

Survey equipment includes integrated differential GPS and reflectorless total stations, resistivity
meters (x2), Bartington gradiometers (x2), LiDAR and access to GPR, and cloud scanners. Land
on campus is provided for experimental and forensic archaeology. There is a technical office that
houses our dedicated lab manager and technician, alongside facilities for drawing and
photography. We possess three dedicated research project rooms, and one is equipped with a
large format scanner of particular use in landscape research. There are substantial reference
collections for animal (mammal, birds, fish), plant and human remains, geology,
archaeometallurgy, ceramics, lithics, organic material culture, and historic maps.




Fig. 5: Our LiDAR, acquired by Iriarte’s ERC Project, redeployed to scan the Monumental Mound
Region of Llanos de Moxos, Bolivia.

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Other key facilities in the University we have used include Geography’s Sediment Research Facility
and palaeoenvironmental laboratories (e.g. pollen labs, large cold room, inorganic bulk analysis
facilities such as AAS and ICP-MS), and Camborne School of Mines’ SEMs and world-class micro-
beam facilities (QEMSCAN) for inorganic materials (e.g. soil and archaeometallurgical
characterisations). Light stable isotope mass spectrometry is available in the Environment and
Sustainability Institute (ESI) with whom several of our staff have affiliate status and we have been
in recent discussions with our Living Systems Institute about developing ancient DNA laboratory
preparation to enable use of their excellent next generation sequencing facilities. We have access
to the University's High Performance Computing (HPC) and its GPU (Tesla K80) computer nodes.
We have full access to the College’s Digital Humanities Lab. This £1.2M investment has
dedicated staff who advise on specialist IT applications as well as facilities for 3D scanning and
printing, ultra-high-resolution photography and AV recording.

Our research is supported by two technical staff (one field-facing; one lab-facing), and this
support has recently been boosted by an additional technician shared with Geography.
Archaeology is based in the Humanities, but straddles HASS and STEM/M. In the past this created
scientific technical support challenges. Within this REF period the University re-organised technical
services, resulting in full access to the skills base of the wider technical services team, significantly
enhancing scientific support and facilities access, whilst maintaining the benefits of College
membership. The College’s administration hubs support staff by arranging travel and logistics,
whilst ‘Funder Cluster Teams’ assist with the provision of funding opportunity and project costings.
‘Innovation, Impact and Business’ (IIB) advise on contract research, non-academic partnerships
and impact. IIB provide strategic seed-corn funding for impact and translational research.
Archaeology has also benefited from the University’s general investment in the campus, its
facilities and library, as outlined in the ILES (section 4.14). In relation to library support, we are
assisted by ‘academic liaison librarians’ who are responsible for supporting research activities
within particular disciplines, providing training in information literacy, collections management and
deploying expert knowledge of key information resources, including the library’s special
collections. They deliver workshops within the researcher development programme, aimed at both
PGRs and early career scholars.

Another key role of the library is maintaining of our open access repository, ‘Open Research
Exeter’ (ORE), in line with the University’s Open Access Policy’. ORE is the principal means by
which our staff meet the Research England open access mandate, and all PhD theses are also
uploaded. In addition to the UKRI OA block grant, OA publishing is further encouraged through
UoE’s own open access fund which facilitates those without grant support in making their work
openly available.


  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Exeter has added particular value to the wider research base through providing distinct leadership
in transdisciplinary bioarchaeological research that fully integrates wider landscape, heritage and
policy contexts. We have been a prominent academic advisor to archaeological open air and
experimental centres, facilitating enhancement of professional practice. In terms of the UK’s
international collaborations, we are a key link-point in relation to South America and Central Asia.
We endeavour to integrate impact and outreach activity into everything we do by maintaining a
sustainable pipeline of activity, beyond REF-targeted case studies. Activities in this review period
are indicatively illustrated below.

Impact and Public Outreach beyond Case Studies: Our research community actively engages in
long-term programmes of impact and outreach as a matter of conviction, beyond single REF
cycles. This is evidenced by our approach to field schools, which combine research, education,
outreach and impact, as illustrated below in relation to our projects at Mitchell, South Dakota and
Ipplepen, Devon.


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We have conducted fieldwork at Mitchell Prehistoric Indian Village since 2004, undertaking month-
long seasons. The site is a US National Historic Landmark site that is open to the public. It has a
museum and an ‘Archeodome’ where visitors are able to view the ongoing excavations from a
gantry and visit the laboratories where finds are processed. We organise extra activities on specific
‘Archaeology Awareness’ days, give lectures to the local community, provide regular interviews to
local press, radio and TV, and, outside our field season, visitors can view time-lapses of the
excavation and view exhibits we have helped to develop. From 2014–19 there were 72,059
visitors, including 7,814 scouts/school children. An additional role of the site is to bridge difficult
cultural relations between Native and non-Native communities of the area. Our public events
include Native American voices and bridge gaps through telling the story of maize agriculture in the
Northern Plains, first pioneered by the inhabitants of Native Plains Villages, with their seed stock
forming the base of modern agricultural production in the region.

Our long-term field project at Ipplepen multi-period settlement, Devon, always featured outreach
activities, but, coupled with our extensive landscape archaeology research in the region, it led to a
significant programme of public engagement (2017–20), supported by £261,000 from HLF/NLHF
plus £75,400 from Devon CC, National Trust, Calstock PC, Teignbridge DC and British Museum.
Members of the local community donated £8,278 evidencing their positive experiences of our
activities. These activities included: open days/visitor centres at Ipplepen and Calstock excavations
(9,172 visitors), places for community excavators (251 volunteers), a public conference and exhibit
at Torquay Museum (11,690 visitors), workshops for socially disadvantaged groups (123
attendees) and school children (1,187). This is a total of 23,469 face-to-face interactions, alongside
copious social and mainstream media outreach activity. The project has drawn praise from local
councillors, heritage leaders, headteachers, the Portable Antiquities Scheme, Devon Recovery
Learning Community and Calstock Refugee Outreach Group.




Fig 6: Leo Jamelli’s animated projection onto St Catherine’s Almshouse, Exeter.

Indicative examples of research project outreach, beyond impact case studies, include two of
McKenzie’s particularly innovative projects. The AHRC-funded project, 'Literary Archaeology:
Exploring the Lived Environment of the Slave' held readings in Bristol of new writing inspired by
archaeological evidence about the lives of slaves in Barbados and Gran Canaria, alongside public
discussions and the production of a project video. Her Wellcome Trust ‘Celebrating Care’ project
brought together archaeology, anthropology and history to help support contemporary family

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
carers. Their public workshop featured in Devon Carers Magazine, a video provided wider
dissemination and, inspired by the research, a UoE Arts & Culture Fellow (commissioned local
graphic artist Leo Jamelli) produced a public artwork capturing the strength and vulnerability of
family carers, which was projected onto the medieval St Catherine’s Almshouse in Exeter (Fig. 6).

Research projects active during the COVID-19 lockdown stepped up to enhance outreach activities
which might provide some engagement and respite during a challenging time. Regular blog posts
were maintained, whilst the AHRC ‘Warhorse’ project contributed to the Royal Armouries’ online
exhibition on the anniversary of the ‘Field of the Cloth of Gold’, and the AHRC ‘Easter e.g.’ project
devised a children’s craft activity based upon relevant items of archaeological material culture. The
HLF ‘Understanding Landscapes’ project enlisted an army of home-based citizen scientists to
analyse publicly available LiDAR data. The transformative result in discovering many new sites
was widely covered by the press, including the BBC. Lazzari’s research has been selected by the
Argentinean government to be included in a COVID-19 educational package (book and board
game) to be sent to disadvantaged households.

Our staff routinely work with the media to bring our work to the widest possible audiences and our
research is regularly covered by newspapers and magazines. Indicatively, over a sample 12 month
period (11/19–10/20), our press office recorded a minimum of 13 research stories in 2,011 items of
coverage in 64 different countries. The following are selected highlights from the REF period,
which reached particularly large audiences. Outram was involved in a major documentary series
on equine history: Equus: Story of the Horse, which won Best Documentary Series at Canadian
Screen Awards, and he represented the production at a special screening at UNESCO in Paris
attended by its Vice-President. He also recently discussed horse domestication in multiple BBC
radio appearances, including In Our Time with Melvyn Bragg. As its principal consultant, Iriarte’s
research was showcased in the Channel 4/Discovery Channel 3-part series Jungle Mystery: Lost
Kingdoms of the Amazon (Nov/Dec 2020). PhD student, Malene Lauritsen appeared on BBC
National News and other venues regarding her finding of perhaps the earliest turkey bones in
Britain. Sykes and post-doc Ameen have made numerous significant media appearances related to
the demonstration of early rabbits in the UK. Sykes also made an appearance in BBC’s Danny
Dyer’s Right Royal Family to explain the significance of Norman deer hunting and her AHRC
‘Easter e.g.’ project secured an AHRC ‘Arts & Humanities in Quarantine: Public Engagement
Grant’ (c. £20K) to produce an animated film for the BBC. Rippon appeared in ITV’s Roman Britain
from the Air.

In terms of funding panel/college work, Sykes chairs the GCRF ‘Cultures, Behaviours and
Histories of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition’ and UKRI-DBT 'Addressing the Challenge of
Antimicrobial Resistance in India' themes and was deputy chair of the NERC Radiocarbon Facility,
on which Rippon now sits. Sykes is an ESRC mentor and also sits on the Wellcome Trust’s
Medical Humanities Panel and the UKRI and Strategic ODA Colleges. Creighton sits on the
International Assessment Board of the Irish Research Council and Juleff on the Commonwealth
Scholarships Commission Panel. Outram sat on the 2020 archaeology panel of the Dutch
Research Council, whilst Herold is a panel member on the German Science Fund and received a
‘Gold Standard Letter’ for her services to the AHRC Peer Review College in 2019, of which
Creighton, McKenzie and Outram have also been members. Our widespread international
reviewing activity includes ERC, Fulbright Commission, National Geographic, ICOMOS, and
Wenner-Gren, as well as research councils in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Czechia, Hungary, Ireland,
Israel, Kazakhstan, Netherlands, Panama, Poland, Portugal, Switzerland, Uruguay and USA
(NSF).

Our staff have also contributed in editorial roles, such as Creighton having been editor of
Medieval Archaeology and now Series Editor, Exeter Medieval Studies Series, Liverpool UP.
Outram was Executive Editor of World Archaeology and is now editor-in-chief of Science and
Technology of Archaeological Research (STAR). Sykes was editor of International Journal of
Osteoarchaeology and now for World Archaeology. Evis is an editor for the Egyptian Journal of
Forensic Science, whilst Rippon sits of boards of Landscape History and Agri Centuriati, and book
series for Brepols and BAR. We have external examined research degrees at a dozen UK

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Universities, and internationally at: Eotvos Lorand University (Budapest); Trinity College Dublin;
University College Cork; NUI Galway; The Muséum National d'Histoire Naturelle (Paris); Antwerp
University; University of New South Wales; Sydney University; University of the Basque Country;
Vrije Universiteit Brussel; Babes-Bolyai University (Cluj-Napoca); Vilnius University; University of
Ghent.

In advisory capacities, Creighton has advised ICOMOS World Heritage and sits on the British
Academy Committee for the Sylloge of Coins of the British Isles and the Medieval European
Coinage Projects. Evis is an Emergency Response Team Member for Blake Emergency Services
and a Trustee of Cotswold Archaeology. Morkot is Vice-President of the Friends of the Petrie
Museum and a Trustee of Breaking Ground Heritage. Outram has acted as external research
assessor for Groningen University, Netherlands and has served on the advisory committee of the
Shanghai Archaeological Forum. Sykes is on the Theoretical Roman Archaeology Advisory Panel
and the British Deer Society Research Committee. Service to learned societies includes the
election of Rippon as President of the Society for Medieval Archaeology and The Medieval
Settlement Research Group. Hurcombe is on the board of EXARC and is vice-president elect of
the Prehistoric Society. Morkot has served as Chair of Council of the Society for Libyan Studies.
Committee memberships included Evis on CIfA Forensic Archaeology Special Interest Group,
Herold on the Medieval Europe Research Community, Juleff on Historical Metallurgy Society and
McKenzie on BABAO and Society for Medieval Archaeology. Lazzari was elected to the board of
EAA's community for Archaeology of the Americas in Europe.

In terms of examples of conferences and keynotes, Herold was a Scientific Committee Member
for EAA2020 and organised a session at EAA2018. Outram co-organized an international
conference on the Eneolithic of Central Asia in Almaty, Kazakhstan in 2019. Our staff gave keynote
addresses and invited presentations throughout the UK and internationally in Aahus, Amersfoot,
Brandenburg, Chapel Hill, Copenhagen, Dublin, Gothenburg, Hannover; Kalamazoo, Kiel, Lima,
Manaus, Max Planck (Jena; Berlin; Leipzig), New Orleans, New York, Oaxaca, Paraná,
Reguengos, Roscommon, Sarasota, Tampa, Toulouse, Tübingen. Our HumAnE Bioarchaeology
Centre organized and ran a series of entirely free weekend training workshops in 2019 on GMM,
fish remains, bone fracture and stable isotope research for the wider research community,
attended by academics, students and professionals from UK and abroad.




Fig 7: Key research collaborations during this REF period.

Our Collaborations and Partnerships are numerous (Fig. 7). In the UK we have nurtured
mutually beneficial, long-term relationships with many external bodies including the British

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Museum, English Heritage, Historic England, Portable Antiquities Scheme, National Museum of
Wales, Royal Armouries, National Trust, Royal Cornwall Museum, Plymouth Museum, Cotswold
Archaeology, Sussex Archaeological Society, Wealden Iron Research Group, British Deer Society,
Royal Albert Memorial Museum, Exeter Phoenix, Torquay Museum, Devon Carers and U3A.
Internationally, we have actively collaborated with at least 29 Universities in 19 countries, 12
experimental/open air centres, plus: Wildlife Conservation Society and Creative Tours (Bolivia);
National Institute for Amazonian Research and National Institute for Space Research (Brazil);
CNRS Natural History Museum, Paris (France); Max Planck, Jena (Germany); National Institute for
Advanced Studies, Bangalore; (India); International Livestock Research Institute (Kenya); Institute
for Systematics and Evolution and Polish Academy of Sciences (Poland); National Museum of
Transylvanian History (Romania) Kostenki State Museum Reserve (Russia); International Centre
for Ethnic Studies, Colombo (Sri Lanka); International Union for the Conservation of Nature
(Switzerland); Annenburg Foundation, Mitchell Indian Village Preservation Society; The Gault Site
(USA).

Other Indicators of Esteem include Sykes being made a Leadership Fellow of the Annenberg
Foundation (California), Rippon’s Kingdom, Civitas, and County and Planning in the Early Medieval
Landscape being shortlisted for the 2019 Current Archaeology’s book of the year, and Outram
being awarded an Honorary Doctorate by Al-Farabi Kazakh National University.




                                                                                          Page 16
