Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: SOAS, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: Theology and Religious Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context
 The study of religions at SOAS is unique in several regards. In contrast to ‘Theology and
 Religion’ departments at many other UK universities that focus on Christianity and use other
 religions as its background and supplement, our UoA conducts research in many different
 religious traditions and approaches them from a non-confessional and post-colonial perspective
 (see also IES§2). Avoiding a Eurocentric perspective, the diverse religions of Asia, Africa and
 the Middle East are examined in their own right on the basis of primary sources and through an
 analysis of the beliefs, rituals and practices of the practitioners and institutions within these
 traditions.

 The UoA has a global and interdisciplinary approach that informs everything we do (see
 §1.4; IES§2.2). Religion is seen as only one aspect of culture and has to be studied in context. It
 functions within specific historical, political, geographic, and socio-economic circumstances.
 Study of Religions at SOAS is therefore interdisciplinary, approaching religions from a variety of
 methodological perspectives including philology, historical criticism, social-anthropological and
 gender-studies approaches. While we pay special attention to religions that originated and are
 present in Asia, Africa, and the Middle East, we also take account of their global contexts and
 developments.

 The UoA’s 19.25 FTE research-active members, including fixed-contract academics and
 postdoctoral researchers, cover religions that originated in the Near and Middle East such as
 Zoroastrianism, Judaism, Christianity, and Islam; Asian religions such as Jainism, Hinduism,
 Buddhism, and Japanese religions; and African religions. The combination of more theoretical
 approaches with individual staff members’ expertise in specific religious traditions allows us to
 study the texts in depth, to conduct comparative analyses, and to cross-fertilise each other’s
 research.

 Since we research religions in a global context, we have established and maintain network
 connections to other scholars in our own and related disciplines. Members of the UoA organise
 and participate in UK and global conferences, chair and collaborate with international research
 projects, and serve as referees and evaluators for funding organisations and publishers. SOAS’s
 participation in the Open Society University Network (OSUN), announced by George Soros at
 Davos in January 2020, will further expand and strengthen our research collaborations.

 In the current REF cycle the total research income for Theology and Religious Studies is £6.28
 million, which is one of the highest within SOAS (§3.1). In the latest QS World University
 Rankings Theology and Religious Studies at SOAS were ranked within the top 50 worldwide.

 1.2 Structure
 Most members of this UoA belong to the School of History, Religions and Philosophies (HRP).
 As part of the SOAS restructuring process and the abandonment of faculties, Islamic Studies
 colleagues from the former Near and Middle Eastern Studies Department (in the former Faculty
 of Languages and Cultures) became part of HRP (Shihadeh and Wilkinson), whereas others
 who remained within the School of Languages, Cultures, and Linguistics (LCL) were added to
 the UoA for REF purposes (Abdel-Haleem and Shah). Strong disciplinary links endure across
 departmental lines within the UoA.

 HRP hosts the newly established Shapoorji Pallonji Institute of Zoroastrian Studies and four
 research centres (the Centre of Buddhist Studies, Centre of Jaina Studies, Centre for the Study
 of Japanese Religions, Centre of World Christianity). Since LCL has a large programme in
 Arabic and Islamic studies and hosts the Centre for Islamic Studies, researchers from both

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 schools contribute to the study of Islam at SOAS. Similarly, research on Hebrew and
 contemporary Israel is conducted in LCL, which hosts the Centre for Jewish Studies (CJS).

 Members of the UoA participate in centres located elsewhere (e.g., Centre for Gender Studies;
 Food Studies Centre; Centre for Migration and Diaspora Studies). The centres offer a wide
 variety of outreach activities such as public lectures, seminars, workshops and conferences.
 They address British and global challenges such as the preservation of minority traditions and
 the prevention of religious extremism and radicalisation from a variety of perspectives (§4.1).

 The UoA provides the widest research cluster in Asian religions within the UK. More than
 50% of the entire UoA conducted research in Asian religions in various geographical areas
 (India, China, Japan, Tibet etc.) from medieval to modern times. This research focused on
 minority religions such as Jainism (Flügel) and Sikhism (Singh and Kim) and on the larger
 traditions of Buddhism (Pagel and Tournier), Hinduism (Proferes) and Chinese (Palumbo) and
 Japanese religions (Dolce and Padoan).

 1.3 Research Strategy: 2014-20 and beyond

 1.3.1 Implementing our strategic goals in the current cycle
 Our main strategic goals expressed in the REF 2014 Environment Statement were (1) to
 increase our research income, (2) ‘to enhance collaboration, both within the discipline and
 across disciplines, at SOAS and beyond’, and (3) ‘to further the many individual research
 projects of departmental staff’. All three goals have been achieved.

 (1) Securing research grants and endowed posts
 In response to our first goal, to increase research income, we are very proud of having secured
 more than £6.5 million in research awards since 2013-14 (§3.1). These grants enabled
 members of the UoA to carry out research in the sources and rituals of minority religions such as
 Zoroastrianism, Jainism, and Sikhism that are uniquely represented at SOAS. They also
 supported research in Islam, especially in response to current challenges such as the UK
 government’s Prevent Strategy and freedom of speech on campus (Scott-Baumann) and Islamic
 radicalisation (Wilkinson). A third research focus were the traditions of Yoga and meditation
 (Mallinson) that coalesced with research in other areas of Buddhism, Hinduism, and Jainism.

 The UoA also has an outstanding record of fundraising for endowed posts, having succeeded in
 three new posts (two in Buddhism, one in Zoroastrianism). Since the 2014 REF submission, the
 UoA was able to increase the endowment of a Chair in Zoroastrianism, which is now firmly
 established with £3.2 million. SOAS’s position as the centre for the study of Zoroastrianism in
 the UK was further corroborated when in 2017 the Shapoorji Pallonji Institute of Zoroastrian
 Studies was established at SOAS with an endowment of £5 million to fund a lectureship in
 Zoroastrianism, doctoral and post-doctoral scholarships, and a variety of outreach activities such
 as exhibitions. Furthermore, the UoA has consolidated its leading position in Buddhist Studies
 through the endowment of a further £600,000 to add to the existing Numata endowment which
 currently stands at approximately £1.4 million.

 (2) Enhancing research collaboration
 Since Study of Religions is an interdisciplinary area of study, many constructive collaborations
 developed within the UoA. Synergies in research areas and approaches provided multiple
 options for cross-fertilisation. The following can serve as examples:

 Within the UoA several colleagues engage in Digital Humanities projects. The goal of Pagel’s
 project was the creation of a digital, open-access diachronic lexicon of the Tibetan verb, based
 on a corpus of Tibetan texts. The lexicon with its tools is intended to strengthen the presence of
 Tibetan on the internet and to increase access to English language resources for Tibetan-
 speakers in China. Hintze’s project on the multimedia Yasna (MUYI) has created an open
 access documentary film on the Yasna ritual in India and is transcribing and editing Yasna
 textual sources for an open-access digital database. Modern digital technologies such as the

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 XML format are applied to Zoroastrian manuscript studies. The projects are international
 collaborations that include computer specialists and filmmakers.

 Another research cluster within the UoA focuses on religions of the early Near and Middle
 East. The members of the UoA consider the historical and philological study of pre-modern
 Zoroastrian, Jewish, Christian, and Islamic traditions an essential prerequisite for the proper
 understanding of contemporary conflicts in the region. Hintze investigated the impact of
 Zoroastrian beliefs on Judaism and Christianity. Hezser did research on ancient rabbinic
 Judaism within the context of Graeco-Roman and Christian societies. Hunter investigated
 Eastern Christianity in Syria and Mesopotamia. Abdel Haleem’s research focused on the early
 Quranic tradition. Palumbo’s studies of early Chinese culture overlap with these areas and
 indicate that late antique and early medieval societies and cultures should be studied in a wider
 global context than is usually done.

 (3) Furthering individual research projects within the principal research areas
 Especially noteworthy here is the conclusion of the second stage (2012-15) of Hunter’s and
 Sims-Williams’ collaborative AHRC-funded research project on the Christian library from
 Turfan. The project has catalogued some 900 manuscripts in Syriac, Christian Soghdian and
 Christian Old Turkic, as well as New Persian that were found in the opening decade of the
 twentieth century at a monastery site near Bulayiq, Turfan. The texts, dating from the early
 medieval period (9th-12th centuries), encompass liturgical texts, Bible readings, hymns and
 psalters, as well as ascetical texts including translations from Evagrius Ponticus, the Syrian and
 Egyptian desert fathers and East Syrian writers. In addition to the catalogue, Hunter and Sims-
 Williams have published critical editions of some of the texts. The project has also hosted annual
 workshops and lectures.

 The Multimedia Yasna (MUYA) project, funded by the ERC with an Advanced Investigator
 Grant (2016-21, PI: Hintze) combines models and methodologies from digital humanities,
 philology and linguistics. The project produced a subtitled, interactive film of the Zoroastrian
 Yasna ritual, an online platform of transcribed manuscripts and editorial tools together with print
 editions, translations, and commentaries of the Avestan Yasna. Information about the Yasna,
 which was formerly restricted to students of Iranian philology and practising Zoroastrians, will
 now become accessible to worldwide audiences.

 Two research projects addressed important issues concerning contemporary Islam in Britain.
 Wilkinson has conducted an interdisciplinary project including criminological-theological
 research to generate the most detailed and extensive set of data on conversion to Islam in
 British and continental European prisons. The project examined the effects of conversion to
 Islam on prison life and on prisoners’ rehabilitation, including the effects of prison chaplaincy and
 religious occasions in prison. Driven by this data, the project will design a practical intervention
 to improve prison outcomes for inmates who convert to Islam. Scott-Baumann has conducted a
 project on ‘Re/presenting Islam on Campus’ that relates to the British government’s anti-
 extremism programme ‘Prevent’. The project has underlined the importance of free speech on
 campus and the importance of strengthening interfaith work, whereas the Prevent programme’s
 targeting of Muslims was shown to be counterproductive

 The Hatha Yoga project (Mallinson and Singleton, in collaboration with other scholars at SOAS
 and in India), which was funded by the ERC and ran from 2015-20, charted the history of
 physical yoga practice by means of philology—the study of texts on yoga—and ethnography—
 fieldwork among practitioners of yoga. The project’s primary outputs are critical editions and
 annotated translations of ten Sanskrit texts on Hatha Yoga, four monographs, and a range of
 journal articles, book chapters and encyclopaedia entries. In 2016 a workshop for twenty
 scholars working on critical editions of Sanskrit texts on yoga was held at SOAS and All Souls,
 Oxford. An online panel discussion with the members of the team was held in 2020 and joined
 by 300 people.



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3.2 Future strategic plans
 We aim at producing world-leading research, both collaboratively and individually, across our
 subject areas, and to support this research through external funding. We shall continue to
 address contemporary global challenges and to involve stakeholders in our research projects,
 while ensuring that in-depth research in pre-modern religious traditions and textual sources
 continues.

 Research in the textual traditions of non-Western and non-Christian cultures
 Several members of the UoA conduct fundamental research in the textual traditions of cultures
 and religions of the Near Middle East, Africa, and Asia. Understanding non-western religious
 traditions by focusing on their own textual and material sources and in the context of the
 historical, socio-economic, political, and cultural conditions in which they developed enables us
 to avoid common Christocentric approaches to non-Christian religions and to decolonise
 research. For example, following up on her existing project on the Multimedia Yasna, Hintze has
 secured an ERC MUYA-IIIF Proof of Concept (2020-2)2. This will allow her to continue her work
 on the Yasna tradition. Hezser will investigate the literary development of the classical rabbinic
 compilations (the Mishnah and Talmud) in the context of late antique scholasticism and
 encyclopedism. Continuing his research in Yoga texts, Mallinson plans to create a critical edition
 of the Haṭhapradīpikā and to analyse the Devīpurāṇa, one of the most important Sanskrit
 goddess worship texts.

 Strengthening the social relevance of our research
 Many aspects of our research are of great significant for ongoing political, social, and
 educational discussions in the UK. We plan to continue to make our research relevant for the
 society we live in and to provide solutions to contemporary challenges. For example, Scott-
 Baumann will build on her Freedom of Speech on Campus project by investigating everyday
 practices that may help to avoid racial and religious stereotyping. She will also conduct a project
 that focuses on the knowledge production of Muslim women in the UK and Germany.

 Engaging with global challenges
 Currently, the Covid-19 crisis is the main global challenge which threatens the health of people
 worldwide. Yet the maintenance of health and prevention of illness has been a major concern in
 earlier times as well. Based on a SOAS seedcorn grant, Hezser started a project on ‘Jews and
 Health: Tradition, History, and Practice’, with an international conference in November 2019 and
 is now working on a collaborative volume that investigates health as a Jewish value from ancient
 to modern times. The project has also led to an evening lecture series organised through the
 Centre for Jewish Studies in 2020-21. Another global challenge is the climate crisis. With
 colleagues from the Faculty of Theology of the University of Oslo, Hezser is organising a series
 of online workshops on ‘Nature and Ecology in Judaism, Christianity, and Islam’.

 Increasing global academic collaboration
 All UoA members collaborate with colleagues at other universities worldwide, in fields such as
 Archaeology, Art History, Sociology, and Gender Studies. For example, together with colleagues
 at the University of California and Boğaziçi University in Istanbul, Shihadeh is creating a
 research project entitled, ‘From Historiography to Philosophical Engagement: Towards a
 Thematic Investigation of Islamic Philosophy’. As part of our new collaboration with other
 universities in the OSUN network, various research-related activities such as collaborative
 workshops and conferences with OSUN partners are planned, e.g., on Islamic (Shihadeh) and
 Jewish (Hezser) history and culture.

 Promoting cultural awareness
 Our UoA will continue to promote public awareness of the cultural traditions of non-Christian
 religious communities such as Zoroastrians, Jains, Jews, and Muslims. This happens though the
 lecture series organised by the Centres (§4.1) and through public lectures and workshops
 offered by individual academic staff.



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Decolonising research:
 SOAS has prioritised its decolonisation initiative (see IES§1, 2), and UoA members actively
 contribute to shaping research in this area. Many of our members are specialists in the cultures,
 languages, and religious traditions of the Global South and prioritise and centre the perspectives
 and practices of knowledge production from these regions. Their work is dedicated to
 understanding the complex cultural imaginaries of these contexts in their own terms, necessary
 to refuting Orientalist and Eurocentric accounts of religious practice, history, and doctrine.
 Notable in this respect are Hintze’s research on Zoroastrian texts and rituals in Iran and India;
 Hezser’s examination of the literary development of Palestinian rabbinic documents in the
 context of Graeco-Roman and Byzantine Christian scholasticism in late antiquity; Shihadeh’s
 investigation of medieval Islamic philosophical traditions; Shah’s projects on the development of
 Arabic linguistics; and Mallinson’s history of premodern cannabis use in India. Several of our
 staff actively contribute to the theorisation of decolonial, methods, paradigms and practices.
 Caron is a collaborator on the ERC project ‘TAKHAYYUL: Imaginative Landscapes of Islamist
 Politics’ (PI: Sertac Sehlikoglu, UCL) and his work combines Islamic philosophy/political
 ontology, poetics, and ethnography to draw out how pre-rational, associative, and affective
 thinking operates in historical Islamist actors’ own theories of emotion, communication, violence,
 and politics during the Afghan wars. Hawthorne’s work on religion, gender and race
 demonstrates the role of anti-Blackness and colonialism in shaping the meanings of ‘religion’
 and ‘gender’ and she explicitly foregrounds the critical, but neglected, interventions by scholars
 of colour (Black, post- and decolonial, and Islamic). In so doing she proposes a decolonial
 reconstruction of the field’s core preoccupations, categories, and histories with regard to
 questions of affect, embodiment, agency, and spatialisation. Imafidon’s research within African
 Philosophy similarly attends to its epistemological and methodological significance for ethics and
 ontology as a means of resisting Eurocentric accounts and expanding conventional
 understandings of lived religious and communal experience and belonging.

 Supporting research applications:
 We use our research seminars to discuss and provide peer-reviews on research projects in
 progress before actual funding applications are submitted. Presenting projects in-the-making
 and receiving comments and feedback from colleagues is key to strengthening and finalising
 proposals. We have also invited those whose applications were successful and who have
 experience with conducting large projects to talk about their strategies and give advice to others,
 especially those who plan to apply to the same funding agency.

 1.4 Interdisciplinarity
 Study of Religions at SOAS is profoundly interdisciplinary. Staff members are trained in Iranian
 Studies, Jewish Studies, Islamic Studies, Japanese Studies, Buddhist Studies, which are also
 already interdisciplinary fields (see §1.1 above). Methodological approaches range from
 philological to anthropological and more besides, and innovative combinations of these are
 evidenced in many if not all unit members’ outputs, research projects, and the vital environment
 partly created through our research seminars and other events.

 1.5 Impact

 1.5.1 Impact strategy 2014-20
 Our goal was to integrate impact into all large research projects, including those that focused on
 ancient societies. Those applying for grants were advised by impact officers in the research
 office. They developed their projects with impact in mind and created connections to potential
 stakeholders among the general public. Such stakeholders could be religious communities,
 museums, and the UK government. The identification of stakeholders and the creation of links
 between research projects and stakeholders’ needs is a key priority.

 1.5.2 Implementation of impact strategy and 2021 case studies
 Impact case studies were developed in connection with four funded research projects. The two
 best case studies were chosen for submission.


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Hintze and Stewart’s impact case study entitled ‘Spotlight on an Endangered Faith’, has raised
 public awareness of Zoroastrianism—one of the world’s oldest and least understood
 religions—in Iran, in the UK and India where diaspora communities reside, but whose own
 connection to their religious practice has been jeopardised. Zoroastrian and non-Zoroastrian
 communities have been engaged by means of exhibitions and public events. The project has
 also established programmes for the preservation of endangered manuscripts and
 languages: Zoroastrian Dari (Iran) and ‘Parsi’ or old Gujarati (India) and has improved curatorial
 practices ensuring that endangered manuscripts and languages enrich historical narratives in
 the UK and India. A documentary of the performance of the Yasna ritual by Zoroastrian priests in
 India has been made available to the general public.

 Wilkinson’s impact case study, ‘Islam Unveiled’, indicates how research on minority religions can
 be used to inform judges and the UK legal system. Non-Muslim judges and juries in trials of hate
 crimes and terrorism possess limited means of understanding the nature of the Islamic or
 Islamist theological ideas to inform their decision-making. The research has offered insights
 on distinguishing between mainstream Islam, ideological Islamism, and Islamist extremism. It
 has informed 27 trials in the UK related to Islamist or far-right extremism to help judges and
 juries distinguish between healthy, destructive and illegal religious and ideological acts. The
 research has also been used for judicial training of 200 High Court judges on training at the
 Judicial College and to inform the work of at least 40 Counter-Terrorism officials at the Home
 Office and the Foreign Office, 2 UK ambassadors and 2 UK Government ministers.

 1.5.3 Future strategic plans for impact
 An important goal of the UoA is to increase the impact of our research within society at large.
 Most funders now pay specific attention to the anticipated impact of a research project. We plan
 to make the potential impact one of the main criteria for developing research projects, and UoA
 members liaise with the research office to build in impact from the very initial conception of grant
 applications. There is also a SOAS-wide impact acceleration fund that supports the development
 of impact for already funded projects.

 We plan to include stakeholders in the planning stage of larger research projects. This may
 involve leaders of religious communities, governmental policy makers, or the NHS. Such
 networking connections to public stakeholders shall be improved in the future, not least through
 our own engagements outside the university and by including stakeholders in our public events
 and research activities.

 1.6 Open research and research integrity

 1.6.1 Open access strategy
 Researchers in the UoA are committed to using the institutional repository SOAS Research
 Online (SRO) (IES§2) to share their research when publishers allow us to do so. Around 33% of
 UoA items in SRO have the full text attached while some researchers have published Gold OA
 (e.g., Scott-Baumann). SOAS has an Open Access Fund for article processing charges that is
 open to all and researchers with external funding have OA funds built into their projects. SOAS
 has a dedicated Scholarly Communications Manager who works to develop a culture of
 dissemination and support researchers in developing strategies for open research. This
 approach is supported by dedicated workshops for grant holders. They are designed to ensure
 projects are on track in terms of OA and Research Data Management. Discussions are
 underway, e.g., for Flügel’s Centre for Jaina Studies Newsletter to explore opportunities to host
 this elsewhere, with a view to allowing him to apply Creative Commons Licences etc.

 1.6.2 Research data management
 All researchers are obliged to pass an online RDM course. Large funded projects have their own
 digital presence. A good example of best practice in this area is Pagel's AHRC project, which
 documented and archived its workflow and research data in the open-source digital library
 Zenodo. The work-in-progress, open issues, and roadmap are shared in GitHub, and


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contributions to any aspect are welcomed from anyone. Similar arrangements are in place for
 Pagel’s second current AHRC project.

 Other examples include Scott-Baumann, who has planned for data sharing (within ethical
 practice) with the UK Data Archive for her AHRC project. Hintze’s ERC project on the Multimedia
 Yasna will disseminate research outputs and databases online and via other channels. The
 project will host sessions at international conferences and many of the results will be made
 available publicly via a GIS-enabled OA website that will be responsive to user queries. Journal
 articles on specific themes will be published in Gold OA journals together with a series of
 research monographs.

 Mallinson’s approach to data management for his Yoga project includes plans for long-term
 storage of the data his project produces. All primary outputs of his project will be Open Access.
 The project data (manuscript scans and photos, plus fieldwork photos and films) will be archived
 on Zenodo and the texts of the critical editions will be submitted to SARIT. Project data which
 cannot be made OA due to restrictions will be available to individual researchers on request.

 In connection with his Leverhulme grant on Jaina Prosopography, Flügel is working with the
 Sheffield Humanities Institute on a data model and database, full search functionality, data
 visualisation, data export functionality for export in long-listing formats which will allow full data
 archiving and a front-end website.


 2. People

 2.1 Staffing structure and strategy
 Between 2014 and 2020 several members of the UoA have left SOAS to take up positions at
 other universities (Hartung in 2016, Haustein in 2019, Tournier in 2018, Kim in 2020), to enter
 retirement (Zene in 2017) or voluntary redundancy (Palumbo, Proferes, Singh), or for other
 reasons (Hunter). The goal is to fill vacant positions strategically, based on recognisable gaps in
 expertise within the school and UoA. Hartung’s post in Islam was refilled by a lecturer in
 Islamicate South Asia whose research is submitted under the History UoA. In addition, a new
 appointment in World Philosophies, with a special expertise in African Religion and Philosophy,
 has been made in 2020 (Imafidon). Li, a Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation Postdoctoral Fellow
 at the Centre of Buddhist Studies, also joined the UoA in 2020, after receiving a Ph.D. in Japan
 with a focus on pre-modern East Asian Buddhist Thought.

 2.2 Equality and diversity
 The UoA strictly adheres to an equal opportunities policy in staff recruitment (see also IES§2.1,
 3.3). This has increased diversity, especially as far as gender equality is concerned.
 Approximately 33% of members of the UoA are female and 24% are BAME. One member of the
 UoA has a declared disability. To increase diversity, SOAS offers equality and diversity training
 that is obligatory for members of recruitment committees and REF coordinators. Diversity in
 recruitment, retention, and promotion is supported at all levels of the staffing process.

 2.3 Early career staff
 The UoA places great emphasis on the support and development of all new appointees. Early-
 career staff undergo a probation period of 3 years, attend induction and training courses,
 have lighter teaching and administration loads, are given mentors and are entitled to apply for
 two terms of research leave at the end of the probation period. Leave at this level is a deliberate
 decision of SOAS to support early career researchers. All new staff are allocated a mentor for
 the period of their probation. The annual probationary review scheme entails a full review of
 research goals and opportunities.

 During the review period the UoA has been hosting a senior researcher (Singleton 2015-20,
 mentor: Mallinson, ERC-funded) and several postdoctoral fellows: Birch 2015-20 (mentor:
 Mallinson, ERC funding), Goldman 2016-19 (mentor: Hintze, ERC funding); Redard-Jacot 2017-

                                                                                                   Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 20 (mentor: Hintze, ERC funding); Krümpelmann (mentor: Flügel, Leverhulme funding), Padoan
 2015-16 (mentor: Dolce, BA/Leverhulme funding), and Li (Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation
 grant; mentor: Dolce).

 Successful applications for larger research grants enable the establishment of scholarships at
 MA and Ph.D. level and postdoctoral fellowships. This is the case with Hintze’s MUYI project, for
 example. Since 2018, 5 postdoctoral fellows have been funded by the project to work on
 Zoroastrianism. 3 of them continue into the next REF period, while 2 have finished their research
 and left SOAS. The externally funded Shapoorji Pallonji Institute of Zoroastrian Studies offers
 scholarships to MA and PhD students whose research is supervised by members of the UoA.
 One MA student who completed his dissertation in 2018 presented a version of the thesis at the
 ARAM Oxford Conference in July 2018. Laura Hassan, a former PhD student in Islam, won the
 Classical Islamic World Book Prize for her doctoral thesis in 2018. Other postgraduate
 students collaborate and co-author books and articles with permanent staff (e.g., Singh and
 Kim). Members of the UoA also collaborate with and mentor post-doctoral researchers and help
 them apply for grants. For example, Dolce’s PhD student Emanuela Sala, has been awarded a
 Ho Foundation Dissertation Fellowship by the American Council of Learned Societies; Flügel’s
 PhD student Manu Ato-Carrera has won the Khyentse Foundation Ph.D. Scholarship as well as
 several other grants for 2020-21 (see also §2.7).

 Postdoctoral researchers are strengthened in several ways. If they are on SOAS contracts they
 are included in the mentoring programme, offering them regular meetings with a senior
 academic in their field. Postdoctoral and senior teaching fellows can be included in the annual
 Staff Development Review to help them fulfil their research goals. Postdoctoral researchers from
 SOAS, the UK, and abroad can apply for the status of research associates, if their projects fit
 into the UoA’s and HRP’s research agenda. All doctoral students and postdoctoral researchers
 are invited to the regular research seminars and to the lectures and workshops offered by the
 research centres. Finally, both postdoctoral researchers and more senior academics can apply
 for the SOAS seed-corn fund to organise workshops and conferences or finance travel to
 archives in preparation for larger funding applications.

 2.4 Staff development
 SOAS offers a variety of courses (ranging from computer skills and data management to anti-
 bias training) to all staff, taught as on-site workshops or made available online. The School is
 committed to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. It aims to
 increase the attractiveness and sustainability of research careers in the UK and to improve the
 quantity, quality, and impact of research for the benefit of UK society. The annual Staff
 Development Review (SDR) is obligatory for all research-active permanent staff and is offered
 on a voluntary basis to postdoctoral researchers and teaching fellows. It is conducted though
 collegial meetings, in which progress during the last review period is discussed together with
 plans for the coming academic year. The SDR allows each research-active staff member to set
 objectives, track progress, and identify training and development needs. It is now supplemented
 by the Research Mentoring scheme, which is compulsory for all staff and post-doctoral
 researchers as well as open on a voluntary basis to teaching fellows.

 2.5 Research support
 All research staff can apply for one term of School-funded research leave after 8 terms of
 teaching (see IES§2). Those whose third-party funding applications are successful automatically
 receive research leave for the period of their funding. In terms of workload, all staff on
 permanent contracts are entitled to spend 40% of their work time on research. Most colleagues
 reserve one day a week for research purposes during teaching terms, in addition to the term
 breaks and reading weeks.

 Staff can apply for various internal SOAS grants that support research: the Seed-Corn Fund that
 allows applications several times a year and is meant to support activities that will lead to larger
 research grant applications; the Impact Fund that supports the development of impact case


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 studies; and an Open Access Publication Fund that enables the publication of research with
 publishers that charge fees for granting open access.

 2.6 Academic promotion
 For promotion to Senior Lecturer, Reader, and Professor research publications and success in
 acquiring grants, teaching excellence, and administrative roles are taken into account. Every
 staff member on a permanent contract can submit an application for promotion in the annual
 rounds. Applications are discussed by a Promotions Committee that consists of professors from
 all schools and is headed by the SOAS Director. Decisions are made on an equal-opportunities
 basis after rigorous scrutiny of the submitted material based on both internal and external
 reviews and assessments.

 In the current REF cycle, Shihadeh was promoted to the rank of Reader (2016), and Pagel
 (2017) and Flügel (2019) to the rank of Professor.

 2.7 Training and supervision of research students
 The recruitment, training, and supervision of doctoral students is an important part of the UoA’s
 research culture (see also IES§3.2). In the current REF cycle, members of the UoA supervised a
 total of 274 doctoral students. On average, slightly more of them are female (55%) than male
 (45%). The percentage of BAME students varies from one year to the next. The highest rate
 was 59% in 2016-17. Until 2018-19, the percentage of BAME students amongst research
 students was higher than 50%, i.e. much higher than the average of BAME PhD students at
 other UK universities. The percentage of students with declared disabilities has increased from
 2013-14 (5%) to 2019-20 (16%), perhaps because students have become more confident with
 declaring disabilities, a goal facilitated by the School’s dedicated Disability and Neurodiversity
 Team.

 Students registered for full-time research degrees submit their thesis within four years of
 enrolment; those who study part-time have a total of seven years. During the first year all
 students are registered as M.Phil. researchers and are required to attend a year-long research
 writing workshop in the department which helps them prepare their upgrade material that is
 discussed during an upgrade viva in May/June. They also receive additional training and support
 through the SOAS Doctoral School established in 2012 (IES§3.2). Those whose pass the viva
 successfully are registered as Ph.D. students from year 2 onwards. Research students have 2
 supervisors each, with whom they have continuous supervision meetings throughout the year.
 The recent introduction of the online Ph.D. Manager system has greatly improved the
 administration of research degrees. Both the introduction of a 4- (PR 7-) year submission
 deadline and the possibility to track progress on Ph.D. Manager have significantly improved
 Ph.D. submission rates. In the period under review here (2013/14-2019/20) a total of 69
 research students have successfully completed their PhDs within the UoA.

 As far as Ph.D. funding is concerned, SOAS-wide research scholarships are available that are
 distributed amongst applicants in annual scrutiny meetings. To increase diversity, students from
 BAME backgrounds are now given precedence in situations of equal qualification. In addition, all
 already admitted research students can apply for conference funding, language acquisition
 funding, fieldwork funding, and the student-led initiatives fund that enables early career
 researchers to organise interdisciplinary workshops and conferences.

 2.8 Collaborative research student training
 Research student training activities beyond SOAS include research student training networks in
 Japan (Dolce), the Universities of Ghent and Erfurt (Flügel), Trinity College Dublin, the University
 of Oslo, and the University of Utrecht (Hezser); UCL (Hunter, Palumbo, Zene); École Pratique
 des Hautes Études, Paris (Tournier) and external PhD supervision Monash University, Australia
 (Hintze). SOAS also participates in CHASE doctoral training partnerships that enable our
 research students to participate in the placement scheme.



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research income
 During the current REF cycle the UoA secured 20 research grants, which indicates a high
 success rate of 27% between 2014-20. The total value of research grants, including partner
 costs, awarded over the period amounts to £6,553,098.42. The UoA’s success in securing
 research grants constitutes a major achievement that is matched by few other subject areas at
 SOAS.

 Especially noteworthy are: the EHRC grant of £1,451,155, awarded in 2016/17 for the project
 ‘MUYA: The Multimedia Yasna’ (Hintze); an EHRC grant of £1,420,170 awarded in 2015/16 for
 ‘The Hatha Yoga Project: Mapping Indian and Transnational Traditions of Physical Yoga through
 Philology and Ethnography’ (Mallinson); an AHRC grant of £792,550 awarded in 2016/17 for
 ‘Lexicography in Motion: A History of the Tibetan Verb’ (Pagel); and an AHRC grant of £503,901
 awarded in 2014/15 for ‘Re/presenting Islam on Campus: Gender, Radicalisation and
 Interreligious Understanding in British Higher Education’ (Scott-Baumann).

 In addition, the Shapoorji Pallonji Institute of Zoroastrian Studies was established in 2017
 with a private endowment of £5 million. One of its main functions is to provide MA and PhD
 scholarships to create a pool of future scholars of Zoroastrianism.

 3.2 Research infrastructure and facilities
 A key feature of the UoA’s research facilities is the SOAS library (see also IES§4.2), which
 specialises in the regional cultures of Africa, Asia, and the Middle East. It contains much
 material that is unique to SOAS, reflecting the British interaction with Africa and Asia over the
 last 250 years, such as archives of missionary societies and photographs of early 20th-century
 India, including Hindu and Jain temples and religious rituals. Subject librarians support research
 students, postdoctoral researchers, and permanent members of staff. The library offers many
 online databases that enable access to its collections from one’s office or home computer. In
 addition to the SOAS library, members of the UoA have access to other libraries in London such
 as the British Library with its manuscript collections, the Senate House Library, and the UCL
 Library.

 As far as IT equipment and support is concerned, all members of the UoA have office computers
 or laptops that are regularly updated by IT staff, who are also always available for IT-related
 queries.

 Researchers can rely on the SOAS Research Office for administrative support with grant
 applications. The online platform Worktribe enables applicants and research office staff to
 develop, track, and peer review applications. The major funding agencies such as the AHRC,
 the Leverhulme Trust, and the European Research Council regularly host workshops at SOAS.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 All members of the UoA have active networks of collaboration within the UK and internationally.
 They organise and participate in international conferences, serve as referees for national and
 international funding organisations, assess manuscripts for book publishers and journals, take
 leadership roles in scholarly associations (e.g., Shihadeh as the [co-]chair of the BRAIS from
 2012-19), serve as editors of journals and book series, give keynote lectures, and collaborate
 with institutions nearby such as the British Library and the British Museum. Only a few examples
 can be presented here.

 4.1 Outreach activities of the Centres

 4.1.1 Centre of Jaina Studies
 The aim of the Centre of Jaina Studies is to promote the study of Jaina religion and culture by
 providing an interdisciplinary platform for academic research, teaching and publication. It

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 conducts Annual Jaina Lectures that are aimed at the Jaina community and a wider public
 audience and issues an annual newsletter that informs subscribers of the Centre’s activities. In
 2016 Flügel co-organised an international two-day conference on the Bhagavad Gita at the
 Nehru Centre, London. In 2017 Flügel (together with a collaborator) started a new three-year
 Leverhulme Trust-funded research project on ‘Jaina Prosopography: Monastic Lineages,
 Networks and Patronage’. An initial seminar was held at Koba Gyanmandir, near Ahmedabad,
 bringing together participants from SOAS, the Digital Humanities Institute of the University of
 Sheffield, Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute, and participants from other institutions. To
 generate future researchers, the Centre bestows its Jaina Essay and Dissertation Prizes for the
 best student work in Jaina Studies at SOAS.

 4.1.2 Centre of Buddhist Studies
 The Centre of Buddhist Studies, chaired by Dolce, is a hub of Buddhist scholarship that
 generates synergy among academics and research students, from SOAS and beyond, involved
 in the study of Buddhism in Asian societies. Through lectures and workshops, it enables new
 audiences to appreciate and understand some of the cutting-edge research on Buddhism
 currently carried out at SOAS and internationally. International conferences held include: ‘Just
 Buddhists? Monasticism and issues of hierarchy, freedom, and fairness in Buddhist Asia’ (2014);
 ‘Spirited Dharma: Exploring Spirit Possession in Asian Buddhist Traditions’ (2015); and a SOAS
 Centre of Buddhist Studies Postgraduate Workshop (2017). The Buddhist Forum, established in
 1987, is a long-standing and well reputed lecture series organised by the Centre of Buddhist
 Studies. The Centre has been awarded a donation from the Khyentse Foundation to support this
 lecture series from 2017-18 onwards. In addition, the Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation
 Lecture Series in Chinese Buddhism launched in October 2017 and features three events per
 year. Each event consists of two parts: a formal lecture intended for the general public and a
 seminar open to postgraduate students and researchers.

 4.1.3 Centre for the Study of Japanese Religions
 The Centre for the Study of Japanese Religions, also chaired by Dolce, was founded in 1999 by
 a generous donation from the International Shinto Foundation. The Centre exists to promote the
 academic study of Japanese religions past and present in all their rich diversity and dynamism.
 To this end, the Centre hosts a regular seminar series and a post-graduate discussion group,
 the Japanese Religions Forum, as well as international workshops and conferences. The Centre
 welcomes applications from outstanding students of Japanese religion for its post-graduate
 bursaries. Since 2013, the Centre has hosted 8 workshops and conferences, amongst them
 ‘Buddhist Medicine and Asian Medical Systems Workshop’ (2013), and ‘Thus Have I Heard:
 Sound and Buddhism in Japan’ (2019).

 4.1.4 Centre of World Christianity
 The Centre of World Christianity, co-chaired by Hunter and Haustein until the summer of 2020,
 promotes the study of the historic and modern contexts of Christianity in Africa and Asia by
 organising, hosting or facilitating conferences, public lectures, meetings, workshops and
 seminars. In 2014 the 8th international and interdisciplinary conference of the European
 Research Network on Global Pentecostalism was organised by the Centre. In 2016 the Centre
 hosted a conference on ‘Religions and Development: Redrawing a Research Agenda’ that
 launched a new Development Studies Association study group on this topic. Since 2014 the
 Centre also provided continuous updates on the situation of Christian communities in Iraq and
 Syria through public lectures by speakers from SOAS and abroad.

 4.1.5 Shapoorji Pallonji Institute of Zoroastrian Studies
 With the generous support from a Parsi benefactor, Mr Shapoor Mistry, in the name of his
 grandfather, Mr Pallonji Shapoorji Mistry, the SOAS Institute of Zoroastrian Studies was founded
 in 2018. The remit of the Institute is to raise the profile of Zoroastrianism worldwide in three
 areas: teaching, research and outreach. It is headed by Hintze and Stewart. Its outreach
 activities have increased the profile of Zoroastrianism in the UK and worldwide. A newsletter
 informs the general public about its activities, and the work of the Institute in promoting
 understanding of Zoroastrianism and collaborating with Zoroastrian communities

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.2 Organisation of and participation in international conferences
 The organisation of and participation in international conferences is crucial for the presentation
 of research results, scholarly exchange, and networking. Besides the conferences and
 workshops organised by the centres, mentioned above, individual staff members have
 (co)organised international and interdisciplinary conferences that were partly funded by third
 parties and they delivered keynote addresses at conferences and universities abroad.

 For example, in 2014 Hezser co-organized a joint British-Israeli conference on ‘Jewish Art in Its
 Late Antique Context’ at the Hebrew University Jerusalem, funded by the British Friends of the
 Hebrew University and the Academic Study Group. Between 2017-20 Hezser also co-organised
 several conferences with colleagues of the Faculty of Theology of the University of Oslo,
 Norway, that were funded by a Norwegian grant. In 2016 Flügel co-organised a conference on
 ‘Max Weber’s Hinduism and Buddhism: Reflections on a Sociological Classic 100 Years On’,
 together with the editor of Max Weber Studies. In 2014 Shihadeh organised a conference on
 ‘Philosophical Theology in Islam’ that focused on the Kalam (rational theology). He has now also
 received funding to co-organise an international conference on ‘Islamic Rationalism
 Transformed: The 12th and 13th Centuries’ at NYU Abu Dhabi, scheduled for 2021/22. At the
 beginning of 2020, Dolce organised a workshop on ‘Unlocking Buddhist Heritage’ together with
 the British Library.

 Before the Covid-19 crisis, members of the UoA participated in a large number of international
 conferences annually. For example, in the 2017-18 academic year, Hezser gave lectures at 18
 international conferences that took place in the UK and abroad. As far as invitations to
 prestigious lecture series and keynote addresses are concerned, Hezser was invited to deliver
 the annual Tria Corda Lectures in Comparative Religion at the Friedrich Schiller University in
 Jena, Germany, in November 2017. The five lectures were published as a monograph in 2018.
 In 2018 Dolce gave a keynote lecture at Princeton University and in 2019 Hintze addressed the
 meeting of the Zoroastrian Association in Houston, USA. Further in 2019, Shihadeh talked about
 ‘The Future of Islamic Philosophy’ at Syracuse University, USA.

 4.3 Editorships and peer review
 Altogether, members of the UoA and have reviewed manuscripts for 45 journals and 14
 publishers and assessed research applications for 20 funding bodies. Several colleagues serve
 as editors and co-editors of book series and journals, including book series published by
 Bloomsbury (Hezser: Education, Literary Culture, and Religious Practice in the Ancient World),
 Brill (Dolce: Encyclopaedia of Buddhism; Hintze: Corpus Avesticum; Hezser: Intersectional
 Studies and Ancient Law and Religion; Shihadeh: Islamic Translation series); Harrassowitz
 (Flügel: Jaina Studies); Brepols (Hunter: Corpus Fontium Manichaeorum; Series Syriaca);
 Bulletin of SOAS (Pagel; Shihadeh since 2018); Routledge (Flügel: Advances in Jaina Studies;
 Hezser: Handbook of Jewish and Judaism in Late Antiquity; Singh: Sikh Formations: Religion,
 Culture, Theory; founding editor of Religions and Development); Japanese Journal of Religious
 Studies and Nihon bukkyo sogo kenkyu (Dolce); Journal of Religion and Gender (Hawthorne).

 4.4 Scholarly honours
 Honours received since 2014 include Hintze’s election to the Fellowship of the British Academy
 (2015) and as representative of the British Academy to the International Union of Academies in
 2018. Four members of the UoA were appointed Visiting Professors: Hezser was Professor II at
 the Faculty of Theology of the University of Oslo for three years (2017-20); Hintze served as
 visiting professor at the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute, Pune (July 2015); Dolce at
 various universities in Japan, Korea, and Ireland; Shihadeh at the University of Erlangen-
 Nuremberg (2019-20). From 2019-21 he is Senior Humanities Research Fellow at New York
 University in Abu Dhabi.

 4.5 Stakeholder engagement
 Public engagement happens in various contexts on an ongoing basis. For example, several
 members of the UoA (Hezser, Hunter, Shah) gave presentations in the context of adult

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 education at the ‘Sacred Scriptures’ workshop at the British Library in 2016. Members of the
 UoA also engage in individual outreach activities and public events, e.g., Hezser’s lecture at the
 National Theatre that accompanied the ‘Lehmann Trilogy’ play; her participation in a podium-
 discussions during the annual Jewish Film Festival. Shah has liaised with the British Council
 and the Ministry of Education to develop a partnership in Islamic Studies with the Philippines.
 In 2017 Scott-Baumann sent a SOAS student to give evidence about the Charity Commission to
 the Joint Committee on Human Rights for their 2017-18 investigation of freedom of speech in
 universities. In January 2018 Scott-Baumann was herself called to give evidence. Members of
 the UoA have also served as expert witnesses in asylum cases. Hunter has spoken out on
 behalf of Syrian refugees and Christian communities in Syria. Wilkinson has given interviews on
 Islamic radicalisation to the BBC. Singh has represented the Sikh community and given advice
 on the Modi government in India. Since January 2020, Alison Scott-Baumann is conducting a
 Strategic Priority Fund supported project on ‘Influencing the Corridors of Power’ (see
 IES§2), which issues bulletins and podcasts on urgent matters sent to every MP, Lord, and
 policymaker in Westminster. She also participated in a UK government-funded ‘Universities
 and Muslim Seminaries’ project. In January 2019, the Ministry for Housing, Communities and
 Local Government commissioned her to work with Islamic seminaries and mainstream UK
 universities to forge partnerships

 In late 2013 Hintze and Stewart co-organised the SOAS exhibition ‘The Everlasting Flame:
 Zoroastrianism in History and Imagination’ in collaboration with the British Museum and the
 British Library. The MUYA Virtual Reality video that was part of this exhibition received a Special
 Mention at the 2020 British Association of Film, Television and Screen Studies awards
 ceremony and is included in the Best Practice Research Portfolio 2020 Installations and Video
 Essays Special Mentions. Stewart and Hintze took this exhibition to the National Museum in
 Delhi in 2016. The exhibition was a major event and was supported by funding from the
 Government of India. In addition to achieving high-profile press coverage, the exhibition
 cemented SOAS’s collaboration not only with the National Museum, but also with other
 organisations in India such as PARZOR (Parsi-Zoroastrian Heritage) and the Alpaiwalla
 Museum in Mumbai.

 4.6 Annual public lecture series
 Major annual events hosted by the UoA include the Numata Visiting Lectureship in Buddhist
 Studies and the Idea of Iran conference. In addition, there are two distinguished endowed
 annual lectures: the Kutar Memorial Lecture in Zoroastrianism and the Louis H. Jordan
 Lectures in Comparative Religion. Over the years, the Jordan Lectures have been delivered
 by many distinguished scholars, and most of them were published in book form. E.g., in 2014
 Prof. Witzel from Harvard University delivered lectures on ‘A New Approach to Mythology:
 Historical Comparative Mythology’; in 2016 Prof. Gardner from the University of Sydney spoke
 about ‘The Many Lives of Mani: Inter-Religious Polemic and Scholarly Controversy’; in 2018
 Prof. Sharf from the University of California in Berkeley talked about ‘Realism, Anti-realism, and
 the Looping Structure of Buddhist Thought’. The Jordan Lectures present cutting-edge research
 in World Religions to scholars, students, and the general public.

 4.7 Covid-19: challenges and opportunities
 (see also IES Covid-19 Annex)
 Globally, Covid-19 has had a great impact on academic research but also presented new
 opportunities. Money was saved by moving conferences, workshops, and evening lectures
 online, e.g., two workshops on ‘Nature and Ecology in Judaism, Christianity, and Islam’,
 organised in collaboration with the University of Oslo, and the CJS lecture series on ‘Jews and
 Health: Tradition, History and Practice’, which attracted much larger audiences than on-campus
 events. Collaboration with colleagues abroad and the joint preparation of research grant
 applications also benefited from online meetings. Thus, this challenge has also led to new
 opportunities.




                                                                                             Page 13
