Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Brunel University London

 Unit of Assessment: 22 – Anthropology and Development Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

a. Overview:

As a currently nine-strong team of full-time academic staff, boosted by an increased flow of post-
doctoral researchers and new PhD students, Brunel Anthropology’s size, which enables staff to
work closely together as a team, continues to be a virtue. Colleagues produce an exceptional
corpus of international research spanning Africa, Asia, Europe, Oceania, and the Middle East.
Since 2014 we have more than tripled our research income to well over £2M, have produced 17
books and edited volumes, and 74 articles and chapters. We have also disseminated our research
via 78 seminars, keynotes and invited lectures in 14 countries across four continents. Ten students
have successfully completed PhDs, and six externally funded post-doctoral fellows have further
strengthened our research culture. University-backed investment to enhance impact, including the
appointment of a Global Challenges Research Fellow, has sharpened the international
effectiveness of our research and encouraged inter-disciplinary engagement. These headline
statistics evidence the success of the strategy set out in our REF2014 submission. Our
accomplishments were enabled, on the one hand, through focused work within existing research
groupings: the anthropological study of global health; childhood, youth and education; histories and
concepts of anthropological knowledge; and performance, politics, and violence. On the other, they
were facilitated through the proactive embrace of new global challenges, demonstrated by work
that engages with international environmental crises, human-animal relations, and contemporary
imaginings of the future. The agility to respond to these new research agendas has been enabled
by streamlining our activities into a single Social Anthropology research grouping.



b. Research and Impact Strategy:

Evidence of achievements: Our three-pronged research strategy for this period, set out in the
REF2014, was:

    •   to develop our longstanding commitment to mainstream anthropological research,
        including new forms of anthropological writing;
    •   to encourage application of anthropological knowledge beyond anthropology and the
        academy; and
    •   to keep alive our vibrant research culture with a steady flow of doctoral students, post-
        doctoral fellows and active research associates.

Concrete evidence of achievement across these aims includes 11 single-authored monographs,
more than one per full-time staff member, and six edited volumes or special journal issues with
publishers including the university presses of Cambridge, Cornell, Stanford and Washington, as
well as Berghahn, Bloomsbury, Palgrave Macmillan, Routledge, and Zed Press. We published
articles in high-ranking journals including the Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute (JRAI),
Social Analysis, Social Anthropology, Ethnos and Medical Anthropology, and in leading regional
studies journals. Staples became co-editor of Medical Anthropology; Beatty and Froerer were

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
associate editors on Emotion Review and Anthropology and Education Quarterly, respectively;
staff served on the editorial boards of a further seven journals (including JRAI, Oceania, Journal of
Legal Anthropology and Journal of Southern African Studies); and Staples was Chair of the RAI’s
publications committee. Ten doctorates and one MPhil were awarded, with many recipients taking
up prestigious positions or fellowships at Universities including Brunel, Exeter, Keele, Liverpool
School of Tropical Medicine, SOAS and Oxford. Seven internationally-recruited post-doctoral
fellows (funded by Leverhulme, ERC, ESRC/DfID, and by Brunel’s investment in developing
researchers to respond to global challenges) served to revitalise and sustain our research base. In
addition to keynotes and conference presentations, staff organised a dozen conference panels
(with strong representation at the annual ASA and AAA conferences), and over 10 independent
conferences and workshops. The latter included Chua’s Wenner Gren funded workshop on alterity
and affinity in Anthropology, planned with the University of Cambridge, and Staples’ University of
Chicago-funded three-day conference on disability and human rights, in New Delhi.
         Our strategy for maximising the public impact of our research includes utilising training from
Brunel’s Research Support and Development Office (RSDO) and the pragmatic impact tools it has
developed. It also includes creating a research culture that a) encourages colleagues to build-in
pathways to impact from the planning stages of research projects, and b) ensures that they are
alive to the serendipitous impact potential of current projects. Froerer’s ESRC/DfID-funded inter-
disciplinary project on aspiration—resulting in concrete changes to Chhattisgarh education policy—
and Chua’s team’s ERC-funded work on orangutan conservation are exemplars of the first
approach. Rollason’s post-fieldwork engagement with a Rwandan tech start-up to improve the
safety of motorcycle taxi drivers in Kigali is a fine example of the latter. This alertness to impact
potential became especially evident during the Covid-19 pandemic: Chua, for example, drew on
established research with indigenous communities in Sarawak, to assist the Malaysian Health
Coalition with: 1) providing advice/input on social dimensions of the pandemic; 2) designing and
customising Covid-19 related messages to the needs of rural communities in Malaysia; and 3)
translating crisis communications (via websites and social media) into Bidayuh. The success of
both approaches was enabled through Brunel’s agility in responding to requests for knowledge
exchange funding. This allowed, for instance, Froerer to make repeated visits to government
offices in India at short notice, and for Rollason to return to Kigali to share and disseminate
research findings as required. Similarly, Chua’s POKOK project (anthropology-conservation
collaboration on orangutan killing) was enabled through a combination of core funding from the
Arcus Foundation and top-up funding from Brunel.

Strategic initiatives that supported all of the above included the following:

1) Enabling new anthropological research and increasing post-doctoral numbers by
substantially increasing research income. Our tripling of research income over the audit period
has been achieved through:

   a) College- and University-wide schemes to support writing funding proposals.
   b) Membership of new research institutes developed as part of the University’s
      transformational change programme in 2014/15.
   c) The strategic use, at subject level, of Brunel’s new sabbatical and study leave scheme to
      develop and/or complete research projects.
   d) Successful grant applications that increased post-doctoral researcher numbers.




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2) Forging links beyond anthropology and the academy. These aims have been fostered
through two distinctive initiatives:

       a) Strengthening engagement across disciplines and with external stakeholders. This
       has been operationalised through our broad-based conception of anthropology and its
       relationship to related disciplines. Examples include: Staples’ ongoing collaborations with
       Disability Studies’ scholars in India and the US, plus being an active trustee of a leprosy-
       related charity; Froerer’s co-hosting of a major international policy workshop at Brunel,
       drawing on the lessons of her ESRC-DfID funded research project, ‘Education systems,
       aspiration and learning in remote rural settings’; the collaborations and exchanges with
       orangutan conservationists and natural scientists that Chua’s ERC-funded research has
       enabled; Kastrinou’s work on Druze statelessness in the Golan Heights, bringing together
       local activists, human rights lawyers and geographers; and the latter’s advisory role in the
       University of Aegean’s Observatory of the Refugee and Migration Crisis. This inter-
       disciplinary, multi-stakeholder work has also been embedded through longer term projects,
       such as Beatty’s collaborations with philosophers, cognitive scientists, and psychologists
       (social, cross-cultural, and cognitive) in the field of Emotion research, and Niehaus’s
       engagement with historians through his work on biography and life history. Hirsch also
       engages with community groups from Papua New Guinea in the UK and is a trustee of
       Wantok Support charity.
       b) Exploring alternative forms of communicating scholarly research. Beatty has led
       the way in developing our longstanding commitment to present anthropological ideas to
       broader, non-specialist audiences. In addition to the narrative approach he developed in his
       last two monographs, books by Argenti, Niehaus and Staples (all included in our
       submission) draw on these approaches to deploy life history accounts and/or innovative
       forms of ethnographic representation. Kastrinou’s recent project extends this to
       documentary film making, while findings from Chua’s Arcus-funded project on mitigating
       orangutan killing in Borneo were communicated via a Dutch documentary on orangutans,
       and through regularly updated blogs. Chua’s project also entailed working with
       conservationists to improve their social research and strategies; through, for example,
       providing recommendations, writing case studies, running ethnographic methods
       workshops, and helping to design and analyse social surveys in orangutan areas.

Achievements made through these initiatives resulted from a strategic decision to streamline our
efforts into a single Social Anthropology research group over the current period. Within this, vital
work in environmental anthropology—especially pertinent in the ‘age of the Anthropocene’—is a
key focus that has grown out of Chua’s longstanding work on human-environment relations in
Borneo and Hirsch’s seminal work on the anthropology of landscape. As a politically charged issue
this work speaks directly to our previous performance, politics, and violence theme but also
expands beyond it. Chua’s developing interests in the global nexus of orangutan conservation
culminated in two major projects—one funded by the ERC (2018-23) and the other by the Arcus
Foundation (2017-22), bringing in two post-doctoral researchers and two PhD students.
Institutional support, including mock interview panels and administrative back-up, was key to her
success. Chua’s projects have led to a major interdisciplinary workshop on orangutan conservation
in Cambridge, two international keynote lectures (Malaysia and Germany), six publications and ten
seminar or conference presentations. Schubert’s Leverhulme-funded post-doctoral research also
taps into this emergent strand in environmental anthropology through his focus on extractive
industries in post-conflict Angola—demonstrated in his co-edited collection, Extractive Industries

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and Changing State Dynamics in Africa Beyond the Resource Curse (2018)—as well as reflecting
the group’s interest in the politics of everyday life.

A further, overlapping dimension to this research trajectory is a focus on more-than-human
landscapes. In addition to a specific focus on human-orangutan relations—a corollary of Chua’s
work on human-environment relations—this strand also connects with and inspired Staples’
ongoing research on animal-human relationships and bovine politics in South Asia. His
monograph, Sacred Cows and Chicken Manchurian (2020), was completed during a University
awarded research sabbatical. These projects extend anthropological knowledge beyond the
academy and engage with pressing contemporary concerns. In that they also relate to
anthropologies of the future—they are about projections of what might be as well as about what
is—they also resonate with Froerer’s ESRC/DfID-funded work (2016-18) on aspiration, which is
central to our childhood, youth and education theme. This collaborative, multi-regional project,
which incorporated two post-docs and a PhD student, examined education systems, aspiration and
learning outcomes in remote rural areas in central India, Lesotho, and Laos. The project led to
Froerer’s forthcoming book, Education, Aspiration and Social Mobility in Rural India, as well as
significant changes to the primary school curriculum and teacher training in the Indian state of
Chhattisgarh. These impacts, embedded in an MoU between Brunel and the Chhattisgarh
government, have major implications for children’s futures and for the region’s long-term socio-
economic development. Argenti’s work on memory and trauma, particularly in Remembering
Absence (2019), which draws on ESRC mid-career fellowship funded Aegean research, likewise
engages with the shared project of problematising temporalities, and how different representations
of the past might shape the present and the future. In his case, it does so as an innovative
challenge to assumptions that have dominated trauma discourse.

In common with Froerer, a major strand of Rollason’s research grew out of our childhood, youth
and education theme; specifically, using knowledge exchange funding from Brunel he worked with
young male motorcycle taxi drivers in Kigali, Rwanda, to explore state power. As well as
considering how people’s everyday relations to power constitute them as certain kinds of persons,
his work illuminated debates about agency, resistance, and obedience, culminating in Motorbike
People: Power and Politics on Rwandan Streets (2020). His enquiry into the nature of state power
in sub-Saharan Africa, an interest shared with his mentee Schubert (Working the System: A
Political Ethnography of the New Angola [2017]), makes manifest the links between our research
strands on youth and on performance, politics, and violence. State power, and the pressing
need to understand the emerging forms of nationalism that were flagged up in earlier work by
Froerer and by Argenti, has been taken up in different ways by Staples, Kastrinou, and Tuckett
(who brought a new focus to the group on African migration to Europe). Staples’ research with
sellers and consumers of beef in India demonstrates how a Hindu nationalist state deploys rhetoric
about culinary choices to exclude and persecute non-Hindu Indians. Kastrinou’s Power, Sect and
State in Syria (2016) sheds light on everyday politics, violence and performance by tracing the
intimate contours of embodied marriage performances. As the war in Syria unfolded, Kastrinou
expanded her remit to respond to new emergent realities of Syrian refugees in Greece, and
stateless Syrians in the Golan Heights. Tuckett, whose fieldwork with migrants in Italy is also
concerned with how people experience and manage the state in their everyday lives, explores the
role played by bureaucracy and the law. Her monograph, Rules, Paper, Status: Migrants and
Precarious Bureaucracy in Contemporary Italy (2018)—winner of the prestigious William A.
Douglass Prize in Europeanist Anthropology in 2019—offers new insights into established
anthropological debates concerning the state, brokerage, subjectivity, and ethics through the lens

                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of a high-profile contemporary social issue, while providing unique perspectives on debates around
legality, illegality, and integration. Collectively, in its attention to fine-grained ethnographic detail in
locations across the globe, this work addresses vital questions about how state power works and
how it is simultaneously complied with, resisted, and experienced on the ground.

An active exploration of new forms of anthropological writing that extend our reach beyond the
Academy also intersects with all of our research. Monographs by Niehaus (AIDS in the Shadow of
Biomedicine: Inside South Africa's Epidemic, 2018) and Staples (Leprosy and a Life in South India:
Journeys with a Tamil Brahmin, 2014) constitute major contributions to the anthropological study of
global health, but also draw extensively on life history and biography. They do so both to fulfil our
strategy of making our work more widely accessible, and to offer unique perspectives on global
health problems: biographical accounts place the wider lives and times of those who are affected
by diseases at the centre of their analysis, rather than, as is more common in global health
research, on the diseases themselves. Beatty, whose innovative monograph, A Shadow Falls: in
the Heart of Java (2009) was followed-up with After the Ancestors: An Anthropologist's Story
(2015), written in ethnographic narrative form, has increasingly used narrative to convey complex
anthropological ideas in ways that go beyond conventional academic formats. Argenti’s
Remembering Absence (2019), which draws on literary as well as anthropological sources,
achieves similar aims. In common with Beatty’s latest monograph (Emotional Worlds, 2019), these
books are also representative of the productive debate within the unit, including Chua’s concerns
with the affective dimensions of orangutan conservation, on the significance of emotion to our
understanding of the human condition. Despite being a preoccupation of our age, emotion has
otherwise been under-explored in contemporary anthropology.

Our focus on how as well as on what research our unit presents also engages with of-the-moment
debates about the decolonialisation of the discipline, slotting neatly into our histories and
concepts of anthropological knowledge theme but, again, going beyond it. Such debates are
addressed explicitly in Chua’s work, about who precisely the anthropological “we” is. Published as
Who are "We"? Reimagining Alterity and Affinity in Anthropology (2018), this co-edited volume—
with a contribution from Niehaus on his archival work on Radcliffe-Brown’s intellectual biography—
considers the creation of disciplinary identities, and how they shape the way we think, write, and do
anthropology. These broad-based and important questions are also central to how Hirsch and
Rollason’s 600-page edited volume The Melanesian World (2019) is framed. Their introduction to
the book interrogates the implications of imagining Melanesia in terms of the apparent radical
cultural difference to the West that has made Melanesian ethnography a fertile source of
anthropological theory, or, conversely, in terms of inequality, as a region comparable to those of
the global south more generally and subject to the same world-wide trends. The work also
contributes to our wider thinking about how ethnographic regions come to be identified as such,
and the politics underpinning those distinctions. Hirsch’s monograph, Ancestral Presence:
Cosmology And Historical Experience In The Papuan Highlands, develops these ideas,
highlighting the limits of Western ways of understanding history by foregrounding alternative
formulations, rooted in the logics of Papuan cosmologies.

While much of the unit’s work reflects upon everyday ethical concerns, it also takes place within a
culture of research integrity, practically structured through Brunel’s research integrity training,
engagement with the ASA’s ethical guidelines, and ethics committee approval via the Brunel
Research Ethics Online (BREO) system for all research projects.



                                                                                                    Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


c. Strategy for the coming period:

Our core strategy is rooted in the three-pronged approach described in section 1b, with the aim of
accelerating both our intellectual contribution to the discipline and the wider impact of our research.
Both demand that we extend our notable successes in grant capture, aided by the strengthened
institutional support we have outlined, and by the new collaborations this has enabled. They also
demand proactive responses to emergent global challenges, such as climate change, and the
capacity to stimulate ongoing theoretical innovation of the kind demonstrated over the current
period: both challenges that our size gives us the proven agility to achieve.

Staples, e.g., is being supported to develop a major project with senior medical anthropologists in
the US that will entail a uniquely multi-scalar, ethnographic enquiry into leprosy policy on a global
scale: one that will both enhance our understanding of the current situation, consider what might
be done to address it and, crucially, develop an effective research model for the holistic study of
other, currently less well understood global health concerns, including Covid-19. It will also
contribute to the flow of new post-doctoral researchers bringing fresh ideas to the group.

Tuckett (mentored by Staples, with inter-disciplinary support from Sociology colleagues) will also
strengthen our commitment to medical anthropology by seeking funding to explore attitudes
towards vaccinations in Europe through new fieldwork in Italy. Tuckett’s focus on vaccination
bureaucracy and what it can reveal about state-citizen relationships will directly engage with issues
raised by the Covid-19 crisis. Tuckett’s collaboration with Professor Heidi Larson from the Vaccine
Confidence Project at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine in developing this
project will maximise policy impact.

Through her new project ‘Resistance work: the Syrian Druze in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights’,
Kastrinou is building a collaborative interdisciplinary network, with geographers and human rights
activists, to produce an historical ethnography. Supported by a Brunel Athena SWAN research
award, she is writing a substantial grant application to explore and critique theories of freedom vis-
a-vis statelessness.

We are also making full use of Chanchani’s expertise, and her position as an interdisciplinary
Global Challenges Research Fellow (GCRF), to develop projects that crosscut the group’s
interests. For example, her recently submitted proposal to the Global Challenges Research Fund,
with Staples as co-investigator, will, if successful, kickstart a project on food security in India that
builds new networks with research institutes and researchers, while creating a springboard for
subsequent research proposals. Chanchani is also developing a project with Froerer to consider
the impact of Covid-19 on early childhood education in rural Chhattisgarh.

Unlocking the full impact of our research also relies on accelerating our shift towards Open
Science. This means, in addition to ensuring all published outputs are open access, either via
BURA, Brunel’s research repository, or by utilising University funds to buy Gold access, we will
also ensure that as much of our research data (including transcripts of interviews or redacted
fieldnotes) as is ethically possible is digitized and shared via FigShare and online platforms
including Researchgate.net and Academia.edu. In tandem with working closely with Brunel’s press,
marketing and social media teams, this strategy will enable us to guarantee the long-term impact
of, for example, Chua’s team’s current project on orangutan conservation. Their recommendations,

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
workshops, partnerships and engagement with conservationists, particularly in relation to mitigating
orangutan killing, will achieve maximum coverage, thereby shifting public perceptions and
understandings of the threats to orangutans and ways to save them. Froerer’s ongoing work on
aspiration, for which she is seeking further ESRC funding, will likewise benefit from this
comprehensive strategy for maximising impact.

At the same time, taking seriously our broad commitment to equal opportunities, we are also
strategically well-positioned to contribute to the de-colonisation of our discipline. This will be
achieved in part through process (ensuring equal opportunities for applicants from the Global
South for post-doc positions, for example), and in part through continuing our tradition of excellent
research into our discipline’s history. Niehaus’s ongoing work on an intellectual biography of Alfred
Radcliffe-Brown engages with these debates by exploring how Radcliffe-Brown worked with
different colonial contexts marked by racism, political repression and the extermination of
indigenous people. We are also committed to collaborations with partners in the Global South,
through exchanges (e.g. through Chua’s Newton Mobility grant), co-authored publications, and on-
the-ground collaborations (e.g. Rollason’s work with a tech start-up in Rwanda).


 2. People

Staffing strategy and development
Our policy in relation to staff, fully aligned with our overall research strategy, has been to retain and
extend our regionally diverse scope, whilst remaining at the cutting edge of mainstream
anthropological thinking. The strategic recruitment of Kastrinou expanded our expertise into Syria
and the Middle East, and strengthened our contributions to political anthropology. The appointment
of Tuckett, who conducts fieldwork in Italy and in London, consolidated our coverage of Europe,
already expanded by Argenti’s shift in ethnographic focus from West Africa to the Aegean.
Tuckett’s thematic focus on bureaucracy, the law and the state in everyday life also took our work
on power and performance into exciting new territory. Rollason’s planned move from Papua New
Guinea (PNG) to Rwanda ensured that, with Niehaus’s ongoing work in South Africa and our
Leverhulme research fellow Schubert’s work in Angola and Mozambique (which complements
Tuckett’s interest in infrastructure and bureaucracies), we made a continuing and strong
contribution to African anthropology. Other colleagues lead the field in South Asia (Froerer,
Staples, and Chanchani), South East Asia (Beatty and Chua) and Melanesia (Hirsch and
Rollason).

Recognising the need for continual revitalization of this broad ethnographic base has driven our
strategy of recruiting post-doctoral researchers: since 2014 we have welcomed seven new post-
docs, demonstrating our commitment to the development of new researchers as well as bringing
new ideas into the unit. Groke joined us as our third Leach-RAI fellow in 2014, completing a
monograph on her Bolivian fieldwork and jumpstarting an emerging interest in the role of non-
human agents in social life. Schreer (who works on conservation and human-environment relations
in Borneo), and Fair (who works on climate justice in the Pacific, especially Vanuatu) are both
contributors to Chua’s £1.2M ERC project on orangutan conservation. Schubert, a political and
economic anthropologist working on state institutions, infrastructures, and transnational trade in
Angola and Mozambique, joined as a Leverhulme research fellow. Dungey and Dost were
researchers on Froerer’s ESRC/DfID project on aspiration, conducting comparative fieldwork in
Lesotho and India respectively. Chanchani, a Brunel-funded GCRF, works in India on pressing


                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
development issues, including economic security and health. It is a mark of our esteem within the
institution that one of only four GCRFs across Brunel was appointed within Anthropology.

Brunel has invested significantly in improving support for academic researchers at all career
stages, in line with its commitments to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers, and to promoting the well-being of all staff. RSDO advises on costing grants and
submitting applications, and the Graduate School has developed several innovative training
initiatives, including the Researcher Development Programme, open to all research-active staff.
One-to-one coaching is available.

The University also replaced its previous competitive research leave scheme with a more flexible
and research-friendly sabbatical programme, enabling time out from teaching and administrative
responsibilities for periods of between a few weeks to a full academic year, in which to undertake
new research, develop funding proposals and write-up completed research. Hirsch was awarded a
full-year of research leave after service as head of department, during which he completed a
manuscript of his PNG monograph. Beatty, Staples, Froerer and Rollason were all given
sabbaticals of two terms to complete major writing projects. Chua was relieved of teaching
responsibilities for three-years to enable her to work full time on her ERC/Arcus project, and both
Rollason and Kastrinou benefitted from University awards offered to early career researchers. The
latter was also given additional time out following her first period of maternity leave to complete her
AHRC project. Knowledge exchange funding and Research Impact Awards have supported
impact-focused leave, successfully utilised for example by Froerer and Rollason in preparing their
impact case studies.

A key contributor to our increased success in capturing grants over the REF period has been a
systematic improvement at College level in the support mechanisms made available to colleagues
applying for funding. For example, we now benefit from a College peer review process for all
applications, which involves one reviewer internal to the Department, and an external reviewer. A
Research mentoring scheme is also in place. For some funding schemes the College now offers
pitch-to-peers events, which are followed by internal reviews. The departmental research funding
allowance, available to all research active staff, can be utilised to develop work towards grant
applications. At University level, the RSDO has been exceptionally proactive in encouraging and
supporting postdoctoral fellowship applications. Leverhulme and UKRI applicants, for example, are
given mentors from the beginning of the application process and receive substantive feedback
(including peer reviews) up to the point of submission. It has also developed a dedicated post-
award division in response to internal feedback from grant-holders.

All researchers reflect on the ethical implications of their research, formally through research
integrity training and the requirement that all projects are approved by the University’s ethics
committee. Applications through BREO help to ensure that our research is not only ethically robust,
but that risk assessments have been conducted to protect both researchers and those they work
with, and to ensure we work within the legal frameworks of the UK and the nations in which we
undertake fieldwork.




                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Support for early career researchers
Schubert’s permanent post at University of Konstanz (April 2021) and Fair’s three-year lectureship
at Oxford evidence the success of our support to post-doctoral researchers, who benefit from the
same support structures as all staff. They attend our weekly staff lunch and research seminars
(contributing at least one paper during their tenures); monthly informal staff writing workshops; and
have full access to research training opportunities, through the RSDO and the department’s
existing structures, with additional support in writing and submitting funding bids. All early career
researchers are assigned mentors with comparable research interests, ensuring that non-
permanent colleagues fully develop their research capacities to enhance their own careers whilst
making globally significant contributions to anthropological research. Fixed-term contract staff
benefit from the same resources as permanent staff, and, after three years’ service, are offered
permanent contracts if they meet expected standards. Tuckett, for example, joined our team on a
fixed-term contract to replace Chua during externally-funded research leave, and, based on her
contribution to our research environment as well as to teaching, has been made permanent.

Support for PGR Students
Despite the highly competitive funding environment for doctoral researchers, Brunel Anthropology
has sustained a steady flow of research students over the period, most coming specifically for our
expertise in education and schooling, in medical anthropology (especially the anthropology of
disability) and in psychiatric anthropology. We have had 19 research students over the current
REF period, 10 of whom had successfully completed their PhDs by 2020. Three of the current
cohort were funded by staff grants; others benefitted from Commonwealth scholarships, employer
sponsorships and Brunel studentships. Several were self-funded, completing their PhDs whilst
working part-time. Eight of the 19 were former Master’s or undergraduate students.

Brunel’s recognition as a Doctoral Training Centre (jointly with the University of Oxford) has
enabled the University to benefit from quotas of RCUK-funded students, including inter-disciplinary
students co-supervised by anthropology staff who are recruited through our research institutes.
Restructuring at University level has already significantly enhanced administrative support for
students and supervisors, with Post-Graduate Research offices established for each College. PhD
programmes have also become more rigorously structured to ensure that we consistently offer the
best training, student support and monitoring of progress possible. Whereas students previously
had a principal and second supervisor, each student now also has a Research Development
Advisor (to help them think strategically about their career development as a researcher) and there
are additional touchpoints at which students’ progress is reviewed at formal meetings convened by
the department’s Director of Post-graduate Research and an independent research-active staff
member. At each stage students present work to demonstrate that they are on track, with
additional training and support offered if needed. Students also meet formally with supervisors at
least once every six weeks (in practice, more frequently) and the outcomes of these meetings are
officially recorded. Stringent application of these procedures has contributed to a positive upturn in
our completion rates, and no student attrition during the audit period.

All research students attend a weekly Anthropology writing seminar, convened by a senior staff
member. Students in the early stages of their doctoral careers present pre-circulated research
proposals and expositions on the development of research questions; more advanced students
present draft thesis chapters. Students are encouraged to engage critically with their peers’ work,
equipping them with vital skills for post-doctoral careers. We also run an inter-disciplinary
conference for PhD students within the wider department, at which students present their work in

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
panels and receive feedback from peers and academic staff. Students additionally attend our
weekly term-time research seminar and, towards the end of their writing-up phase, are invited to
present their own material. The Graduate School offers a programme of well over 100 master
classes and seminars from which students, in conjunction with their supervisory teams, select
those most appropriate for their own research trajectory. In addition to specific courses on research
methods, ethics and research integrity, and on writing-skills, students (in common with staff) are
also offered workshops on leadership, on post-doctoral careers and on managing stress and well-
being. All PhD projects must comply with the same ethical standards as those of staff, as outlined
above.

All research students have access to College funds for conference attendance and access to
Brunel’s excellent library facilities and those of other universities across London. Ample PGR
workspaces close to staff offices are provided, equipped with desktop PCs. These have
standardised hardware in line with the rest of the College. Printing facilities are provided for all
PGR students. All workspaces have access to nearby kitchens.

Brunel anthropology also co-organises the annual Anthropology in London Day which showcases
the research of mostly London-based PhD students and staff. Relative to the size of our PhD
community Brunel has consistently been well-represented at this event, with students encouraged
by the multiple opportunities to present their work that are inbuilt into our programme.

Any students whose research has been disrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic have been supported
by extending deadlines for completion of their research if required, by increasing supervisory
contact and moving it seamlessly online, and by offering resources and training in alternative forms
of ethnographic research appropriate to the situation.

Supporting equal opportunity and diversity
Recognising that world class research requires the talents of all, regardless of gender, ethnicity or
disability, Brunel has developed robust procedural frameworks to ensure equal opportunities in all
academic staff recruitment and promotion. 72% of our PhD cohort are women (compared to 40%
nationally for anthropology), and, perfectly reflecting their make-up of the general population, 14%
are from BAME backgrounds (compared to 9.5% across the sector). A quarter of our PhD intake
over the past two years have identified as disabled (compared to 11% nationally). Including post-
doctoral researchers, 70% of colleagues employed over the REF period originate from outside the
UK, 20% are from BAME backgrounds, and over 60% are women.

All staff, including new recruits who pass probation, have an annual opportunity to apply for
promotion, and are supported in preparing for this through annual Personal Development Reviews
with senior staff, and a rigorous mentoring system. In the current period three staff (Staples,
Froerer and Chua) were promoted to Reader, and Rollason and Niehaus were promoted to Senior
Lecturer, in recognition of their contributions to research and impact. All staff take relevant training
through Staff Development courses, and are encouraged to engage with wider training
opportunities. The Graduate School, for example, provides a Research Development Training
Programme integrated with the national Researcher Development Framework.

Staff returning from maternity leave are actively encouraged to apply for Athena SWAN research
leave to ensure they are not disadvantaged in relation to their peers; both Chua and Kastrinou
have benefitted from this. Staff returning from periods of ill health or other non-research related

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
leave are also supported back into the research environment, often via initial reduced
administrative and teaching loads and, as appropriate, flexible working arrangements. All staff
benefit from provisions supporting flexible and remote working, with colleagues permitted to work
off campus—in research libraries, field locations or at home—when other obligations do not
demand their presence on campus. Staff are allocated funds to attend conferences, to support
fieldwork and to work-up grant applications. A new dedicated research office at College level
administers all grants and offers administrative support throughout the life of an award. Evidence of
the success of these policies is that all staff—even recent recruits and those who have had periods
of absence during the REF period—have been able to contribute to this REF submission, through
research outputs and, in some cases, contributions to impact. This approach to remote working
has come into its own since the first Covid-19 related lockdown, with excellent online library
access, laptop facilities, peer-mentoring and online training enabling analysis and write-up of
research, and research proposals, to continue seamlessly.

The University’s implementation of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers ensures the early integration of research students into the departmental research
culture.

The University renewed its commitment to Equality and Diversity in 2020 by creating the new post
of Director of Equality and Diversity for our department. The director attends all recruitment,
probation, sabbatical and promotion panels, and works to ensure implementation and monitoring of
equality and diversity obligations, including the provision of specialist equipment if required by staff
with protected characteristics. Brunel successfully renewed its Athena SWAN Bronze award,
expanded in 2017 to recognise work undertaken in the social sciences, and for trans staff and
students. The University also has a robust four-year plan in place for sustaining and improving
equality and diversity to which Anthropology is fully committed.

The REF2021 Equality Impact Assessment indicates that the outputs submitted are a well-
balanced representation of the protected characteristics and contractual positions of staff, with the
exception that 27% of staff on fixed-term contracts only contributed 20% of the outputs and 36% of
staff aged 30-39 only contributed 27% of the outputs.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research Income: Since 2014 our strategies for increasing research income, which included
streamlining our research themes into a single Social Anthropology group, have paid off
handsomely. We have achieved a three-fold increase in staff research and post-doctoral training
from £600K to around £2M. A major chunk of this came via Chua’s £1.2M ERC grant to study the
global nexus of orangutan conservation, which included provision for fully-funded post-doctoral and
PhD researchers. These funds were won with institutional support. An additional Arcus grant
added £54K to the project. Chua also obtained Wenner-Gren funds of $20K (£16K) (plus £300
from the RAI’s Esparanza Fund) for a well-received workshop on alterity and affinity in
Anthropology (out of which came a prestigious edited volume) that she organised in conjunction
with the University of Cambridge. Froerer’s joint ESRC application with human geographer Nicola
Ansell for £700K funded two post-doctoral researchers and a PhD student and enabled ground-
breaking cross-cultural research in education and aspiration. University support in pre-screening
applications and rigorous internal peer-review enabled Argenti to secure a Leverhulme grant to
support Schubert’s fellowship on ‘The Afterlives of Oil-Backed Infrastructures in the Port of Lobito,


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Angola’, a project that, since Argenti’s departure, is overseen by Rollason. Including the
University’s contribution the grant is worth a total of £352K to the department. Kastrinou’s
collaborative project on electricity supply in post-conflict Greater Beirut raised £97K from an
AHRC/ESRC conflict call. She was also awarded $2K (£1.6K) as PI from the Transnational
Institute’s Emancipatory Rural Politics Initiative for a collaborative project on resistance, land and
landscape in the Golan Heights. This led to a further £23K from the Druze Heritage Foundation for
a new major project: ‘Resistance work: the Syrian Druze in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights’.
Staples’ fieldwork on everyday beef-consumption and attitudes towards cattle slaughter was
achieved with a British Academy Small Grant of £6K. Staples’ joint application with a colleague in
Chicago (Michele Friedner) to fund a conference on disability and human rights, held in New Delhi,
was also successful in achieving an award of $19K (£15K), administered by Chicago. This covered
the travel and accommodation costs of scholars attending the conference from the Global South as
well as a day of roundtables open to the public attracting 150 registrations.

A strong strategy for increasing research income both at subject level, with colleagues willingly
giving constructive feedback on each other’s funding applications, as well as at University level,
has been vital in enabling our unit’s ground-breaking research. The upturn in our income also
reflects the fact that our projects address extremely timely and topical projects of wide
contemporary concern. Brunel has a robust system for peer-reviewing all grant applications; runs
support workshops at which potential applicants pitch their ideas; and the RSDO offers specialist
support with costing and helps colleagues to grow their research income by providing directed
support for strategic research stimulation activities. Chua, for example, was awarded Brunel
funding for a PhD studentship that strengthened her successful ERC application. Restructuring the
University into three Colleges has also made for a clearer, more effective infrastructure to support
grant applications. Information on calls for grants, as well as support throughout the grant-writing
process are cascaded seamlessly to the departmental research director. In tandem with this,
several Anthropology colleagues have joined the Institute of Environment, Health and Societies
(Beatty, Froerer and Staples), one of four University-wide research institutes, which combines
social, health and environmental sciences with engineering and design to enable exciting and
innovative cross-disciplinary approaches. Froerer and Ansell’s successful grant application, for
example, was facilitated through the Institute.

Space and facilities: All academic staff, post-doctoral researchers and PGR students are
provided with dedicated office space and IT facilities that have been upgraded in 2019. All
permanent staff members have their own offices, situated off a single corridor alongside shared
office spaces for our other researchers. This proximity allows for daily informal collaborations, while
a larger meeting room offers space for more formalised gatherings, such as monthly writing
workshops.

We are also aided by a subject-level librarian in the University’s central library in accessing
materials relevant to individual research projects. In addition to our own outstanding online
resources and collections of books, staff also have access to other University of London libraries,
many of which they use regularly. Other major research libraries are also within easy reach of
Brunel, and our participation (and sponsorship of) the annual Anthropology in London conference,
ensures our continued close collaboration with other anthropologists based at key institutions in the
capital.




                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Our strategic shift away from multiple research clusters to a single Social Anthropology research
grouping has, as intended, broken down barriers to scholarly collaborations, both within Brunel and
beyond, facilitating high-impact research that is effectively disseminated. Within the University, the
move from eight Schools and multiple research centres to three Colleges, four cross-cutting
research institutes and larger, inter-disciplinary departments, placing Anthropology with Politics,
History, Sociology, Communications, and Media, has likewise created opportunities for staff to
work together on shared interests. For example, through Kastrinou’s collaboration with Rugo (Film
and TV) and Ghanem (STS, Manchester University) she contributed anthropological knowledge to
a documentary film and blogs, as well as to conversations with architects, urban planners and
energy sector stakeholders. Kastrinou also co-published with Neocleous (Politics) on Syrian
refugees and police power; and collaborated with Birringer (Theatre) in co-organising an internally
funded research cluster (‘Transcultures-Survival [Hosts and Guests]’), which resulted in an
interdisciplinary symposium of academics and artists. Similarly, Froerer’s work on development,
education, childhood and youth led to her joining forces with human geographer Nicola Ansell
(Sociology, Brunel), whose research on the same topic informed their joint ESRC/DfID ‘Raising
Learning Outcomes in Education Systems’ project.

International collaborations with institutions beyond Brunel have also been central to ensuring the
wide-reach of our research, to maximising impact, and to creating and strengthening networks for
future high-impact research. Froerer’s inter-disciplinary project, referenced above, also brought
together co-investigators from the Erasmus University in Rotterdam and the University of
Strathclyde, while Staples’ co-organised conference in the University of Chicago’s Center in New
Delhi strengthened existing bonds with scholars and institutions from across the sub-continent.
Outcomes of these strategic collaborations include joint publications (e.g. Staples with Nilika
Mehrotra, at JNU, Delhi), and the hosting of the South Asia Anthropologists Group annual
conference at Brunel in 2014 on ‘South Asian Utopias’ (Froerer and Staples).

Froerer co-convened two further inter-disciplinary conferences, both drawing on her aspiration-
related project with Ansell. The first, ‘Theorising young people’s aspirations in global context: an
interdisciplinary conference’, resulted in three forthcoming edited journal volumes; the second,
‘Education systems, aspiration and learning in remote rural settings’, was an international policy
workshop co-organised with the Royal Geographical Society.

Chua’s collaborations also led to important conferences and workshops. The first, co-organised
with Nayanika Mathur (Cambridge), was ‘Who are “we”? Reimagining alterity and affinity in
anthropology’ (2014), which led to a co-edited book that consolidated research on contemporary
anthropological practice and has been influential in shaping current disciplinary debates. As part of
her ‘Refiguring conservation in/for “the Anthropocene”: the global lives of the orangutan’ ERC
Starting Grant project Chua organised a multidisciplinary, cross-sector workshop entitled
‘Conservation and the social sciences: beyond critique and co-optation’ at Kings College,
Cambridge (2018). This put conservation scientists and practitioners in dialogue with
anthropologists and other social scientists, resulting in a groundbreaking cross-disciplinary article
on the conservation/social science relationship in the new People and Nature journal (2020). She
also convened a workshop with Southeast Asian anthropologists, ‘Unpacking indigeneity in
Southeast Asia’, as part of ‘Beyond resistance and acquiescence: indigenous rights and citizenship
in Malaysia’ (funded by a Newton Mobility Grant, British Academy). This took place at the

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, co-organised with Rusaslina Idrus. Cumulatively this work has
led to several long-term collaborations with groups including the Arcus Foundation Great Apes
Program; Borneo Futures; Borneo Nature Foundation; Orangutan Foundation UK; International
Animal Rescue; Orangutan Information Centre, Sumatra, Indonesia; and the Section on Human-
Primate Interactions, IUCN Primate Specialist Group, of which Chua is a founding member.

We have also built an extensive network of relationships with state and local government
organisations, and with NGOs, in order to maximise policy impact. Both Rollason and Tuckett are
currently engaging with the Cabinet Office’s Open Innovation Team, scoping the possibility for
research projects with civil servants; Froerer has shared her findings with the Chhattisgarh state
government, the Indian Ministry of Education, and Oxfam India—and in doing so has changed
government policy; and Staples continues to work with a number of Indian-based NGOs in the
disability field to improve the efficacy of those NGOs ongoing projects. Staff also communicate
research findings through media interviews (e.g., Niehaus’s interview on Radio Sonder Grense
[Radio without Boundaries], in South Africa, on ‘Masculinity and Myth’ and ‘The Marikana Killings,’
and Staples’ podcast interview with New Books Network on food politics in India).

Such collaborations are indicative of ongoing and extended networking with Universities and other
institutions globally, including a long-established staff exchange programme with Anthropology at
the University of Vienna. Hirsch visited in 2018, and will return post Covid-19 to discuss his work
on alterity in Melanesia. In addition, Beatty works with the International Society of Research on
Emotion (and was part of the organising committee for their recent international conference); and
Froerer held a visiting fellowship at the Danish Pedagogical Institute at Aarhus, Denmark.

Publications arising out of all the above activity are made publicly accessible through BURA, and
staff can also apply for funds (on which no limit has been set) to ensure that material requiring
urgent publication is given Gold access status.

Contributions to the discipline
Disciplinary collaboration is essential to high quality, high impact research which brings public
benefit: consequently, we take very seriously our responsibility to reproduce and advance
anthropology through service at various scales. In addition to regular peer review of articles that all
staff are engaged in—collectively, for more than 25 different journals since 2014—colleagues also
contribute more specifically as editors (Staples was recently appointed co-editor of the leading
journal Medical Anthropology, and Hirsch is an editor for the new Berghahn book series,
Lifeworlds) and on the editorial boards of key journals. Collectively, we have reviewed multiple
monograph manuscripts for major presses, including Lexington Books, Manchester University
Press, University of Hawaii Press, Indiana University Press, Oxford University Press, Palgrave
Macmillan, Pluto Press, Routledge, and Sage.

Staples has facilitated publication and distribution of state-of-the-art anthropological knowledge
through his seven years’ service as chair of the Royal Anthropological Institute’s (RAI’s)
publications committee; a key committee which serves as the de facto editorial board not only for
the JRAI’s special issues but for the RAI’s various book series and occasional publications. The
role includes chairing the search committee for new editors of the JRAI, Britain’s flagship
anthropology journal. Staff have also been well-represented on the RAI’s other committees and on
its organising body, in doing so helping to shape the discipline’s development. Staples was vice-
president for three years, serving on the subcommittee which redrafted the institute’s constitution

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and successfully applied for its Royal Charter, a move that will heighten anthropology’s national
profile and status. Hirsch served as long-standing RAI Secretary and a member of the RAI’s
steering group; Froerer remains an active member of the institute’s education committee, ensuring
anthropology is publicised in schools; and Argenti, Niehaus and Chua were all elected to the RAI’s
Council of Trustees for three-year terms. Staff have also served on the Honours and Awards
committees and on committees for several of the institute’s prizes. This collective activity has made
a major contribution to the RAI’s mission to sustain the discipline and ensure its national and global
influence and effectiveness.

Most staff are fellows of the Association of Social Anthropologists (ASA), with Staples one of the
former committee members responsible for drafting the ASA Ethical Guidelines. Staff are also
active in other bodies pertinent to their research interests: Argenti is a member of the Anglo-
Hellenic League and of the ESRC peer review college; Froerer is a Council member of the British
Association of South Asian Studies; Chua is a member of the IUCN Primate Specialist Group; and
Kastrinou is an affiliated scholar at the Centre for Syrian Studies at the University of St Andrews
and a GCRF peer review group member.

Given its size, Brunel anthropology has made an especially strong contribution to the long-term
viability of the discipline through colleagues’ work in the scrutiny of research and scholarship at
multiple levels. Staff examined 31 Anthropology PhDs in eight Universities across the UK (Bristol,
Brunel, Cambridge, Edinburgh, Kent, Oxford, SOAS and UCL) and five internationally (Aarhus
[Denmark]; Australian National University; Free State [South Africa], Radboud [Netherlands], and
Stellenbosch [South Africa]). They also served as external examiners on degree programmes at
eight of the UK Universities offering Anthropology degrees: Birmingham, Goldsmiths, LSE,
Manchester, Oxford, Oxford Brookes, SOAS and St. Andrews. In terms of funded research
proposals, we have reviewed proposals for the ESRC; Marie-Curie; the Israel National Research
Foundation; the Croatian Science Foundation, Zagreb; ESRC Global Challenges Research Fund;
the Druze Heritage Foundation; National Science Centre, Poland, and the National Research
Foundation, South Africa. Froerer is also a member of the ESRC’s grant assessment panel.




                                                                                             Page 15
