Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Institution: University of South Wales

Unit of assessment: A3 Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Unit context and Overall structure - research groups and alignments
The Lifespan Health and Wellbeing Research Group is based in Faculty of Life Science and
Education at the University of South Wales (USW). The Unit of Assessment (UoA) is
comprised of 26 active researchers in two broad health-related research themes that relate
across the lifespan: Prevention & Intervention and Policy & Practice Interface. These themes
emerged as a natural evolution of our overarching post REF 2014 aim of ‘building a
sustainable and vibrant research community’, and have included adapting to internal
restructuring and some staff changes, such as the addition of researchers working on lifespan
health at cellular and molecular levels.

These main themes are strategically supported by five more focussed, discrete but overlapping
research subgroups or units: the Welsh Institute for Health & Social Care (WIHSC) (e.g.
Wallace, Llewellyn); Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (e.g. Northway, Todd,
Kirby); Promoting Lifelong Health (e.g. Lancastle, Kenkre, Ross, Bradley); Genomics (e.g.
Tonkin, Yu, Iredale); and Addictions (e.g. Roderique-Davies, John).

Much of the unit’s research focuses on hard-to-reach populations, disadvantaged groups and
co-morbidity, in a range of physical and mental health conditions. This research is mostly
applied in nature; thus, the impact of outputs is an integral component of both our research and
dissemination strategies. Impact is facilitated through the unit’s long and proactive record of
engagement with external stakeholders including: the public, patients, carers and families;
policy makers; the public sector; the Community and Third Sector, including voluntary
organisations; and industrial/ commercial partners in health and social care. A central element
of the unit’s impact strategy is that all researchers are encouraged to disseminate research
findings with relevant stakeholders as well as academic peers. We also engage with people
who are the focus of policy and service provision in both the development of research ideas
and in the execution of the research process (e.g. Northway). Our research focus is on
improving the health and wellbeing of local, national and international communities through
innovative intervention and care, influencing policy, public engagement, safeguarding, and
education and training. The multi-level networks and cross pollination of researcher
communities that result from these strategies facilitate the unit’s vitality and sustainability.

 USW is located in one of the most socio-economically deprived post-industrial areas of the UK,
 and has a mission statement to make a positive impact on the economy, society and culture in
 which it sits (locally, nationally and internationally) through research, innovation and
 engagement. Meanwhile, the devolved government of Wales is leading the way in putting the
 health and wellbeing of the whole population at the centre of all policy decisions through
 specific legislation such as the Social Services and Wellbeing (Wales) Act 2014 and Well-
 being of Future Generations (Wales) Act (2015). The UoA’s research focus is very much
 designed to reflect the University’s mission statement and the related legislative frameworks.
 As a result, specific research subgroups have established world-leading research programmes
 in response to this clear focus on lifelong health and wellbeing. Examples include the UoA’s
 research in Learning Disability Nursing, Alcohol Related Brain Damage and Social Prescribing.
 The links and relationships with the legislature and policy makers further facilitate the influence
 and reach of our research.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Research and impact strategy
In the REF 2014 the UoA’s environment strategy, and its plans for furthering and embedding
impact were set out under a broad aim of ‘Building a sustainable and vibrant research
community’, specifically focusing on the following Objectives:
1. Increase research quality, sustainability and distinctiveness by focusing on areas of
international excellence
2. Demonstrate a difference (impact) through interdisciplinary collaboration, working with
stakeholder communities to gauge their needs and applying new knowledge through
innovation in practice and policy to bring about change [and in section 4]
3. Support research innovation and enterprise by promoting a culture of looking beyond the
immediate outcomes of research through traditional approaches and embracing the
translational trajectory to include knowledge transfer, enterprise and consultancy
4. Encourage research engaged culture through building capacity and capability,
encouraging leading edge scholarship and demonstrating the links between teaching and
research across the continuum from undergraduate to post-doctoral
5. Attract and prepare well-rounded postgraduate researchers (PGRs) fit for future
careers through a training programme that sustains and raises standards, providing a broad
portfolio of skills to best equip research students in their onward chosen career, underpinned
by a positive student experience - [see section 2]
6. Support good research practice through a professionally-led management and
administrative infrastructure, within the Vitae Researcher development Framework.

Reflections on the achievement of these objectives (2014-20).
Since the REF 2014 census period we have continued to build clear evidence for international
excellence (Objective 1); demonstrate impact through interdisciplinary collaboration and
stakeholder engagement (Objective 2); knowledge transfer, enterprise and consultancy
(Objective 3); a research engaged teaching culture (Objective 4) across all of the subgroups
within the research unit; and supporting good research practice (Objective 6). The following
examples demonstrate the breadth and reach of the unit’s research in achieving these
objectives over the assessment period. They also attest to both the sustainability and vitality of
the unit’s work. Evidence for Objective 5 is set out in section 2.

Within the Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities group, Northway has developed a
programme of work related to the health and well-being of people with learning disabilities,
including a specific theme relating to End of Life Care (Todd), as well as Safeguarding and
Participatory Research. This research has resulted in numerous invitations to present at
conferences around the world, including the International Association for the Scientific Study of
Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (IASSIDD) in Melbourne, Athens (2018 European
Region Congress, Athens) and Glasgow (2019 World Congress, Glasgow). Her group has also
attracted study visits from colleagues based in Finland, Poland, Switzerland and Australia. In
2016, Northway was awarded an OBE for services to Learning Disability Nursing, followed by
Lifetime Achievement Awards in 2018 from both the Nursing Times and RCN Wales. She is
co-chair of the IASSIDD Ethics Special Interest Group.

Members of the Promoting Lifelong Health group have demonstrated the vitality of our
research both nationally and internationally. Kenkre is at the forefront of developing evidence-
based Community Health models of work internationally through her membership of the
International Advisory Board and the Scientific Boards of the European Rural and Isolated
Practitioners Association (EURIPA), a representative network organisation founded by family
doctors to address the health and wellbeing needs of rural communities and the professional
needs of those serving them across Europe. She authored sections of the State of the World’s
Nursing (SOWN) report which was launched at the 73rd World Health Assembly in May 2020
(the first ever to be held virtually). Kenkre is a member of the Steering Committee for the
World Health Organisation of Family Doctors (WONCA) Special Interest Group on Family
Violence, which set up an international study on policies and care strategies for dealing with
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


violence in the family context. This is focused on primary health care professionals with
specific attention to the family dimension of care and the relationship between primary health
care and other family violence care services and protection services. This is being run in 28
countries: 18 in Europe, three in the Middle East, five in Africa, and two in Asia. She recently
co-edited a special edition of the Journal of Research in Nursing highlighting the importance of
this initiative (JRN Guest editorial).

Ross is a founding member of the European Spirituality in Nursing/Midwifery Research
Network (EPICC) and a founding member and Honorary Secretary for the British Association
for the Study of Spirituality (BASS). A collaboration of over 20 years, the EPICC project has
built a European network of midwifery and nursing educators in order to share research
knowledge and skills in spiritual care. Since January 2017, this network has reviewed good
practice and developed new resources that are being applied to nursing and midwifery
education in higher education institutions across Europe.

Lancastle is an invited collaborator with Gedeon Richter as an expert on psychosocial factors
in gynaecological health. The company's R&D activities focus on developing non-invasive
medical treatments for common gynaecological conditions which are currently under-
treated. The collaboration has led to Lancastle contributing to webinars in Paris and in
Budapest along with leading European gynaecologists and endocrinologists, presenting at a
leading European conference in Helsinki, and sitting on an expert panel developing a National
Fibroids Awareness campaign with UK experts. This collaboration also led to conference
presentations at the European Society for Human Reproduction and Embryology conference in
Helsinki (2016) and the British Psychological Society Health Psychology conference (2017), as
well as an article about decision-making around Uterine Fibroids treatment.

In the Genomics group, Tonkin leads a long-term programme of research focusing on health
workforce development in genomics (primarily nursing and midwifery) – USW is the only UK
academic institution working in this specific area. This led to the establishment of the Global
Genomics Nursing Alliance (G2NA) in 2017, in collaboration with colleagues in the UK at
King’s College London, University of Central Lancashire/Liverpool Women’s Hospital and the
Wellcome Sanger Institute, Cambridge, and in the USA at the National Cancer Institute, the
University of North Carolina and Penn State University. G2NA worked with the Advances
Courses and Scientific Conferences (ACSC) at the Wellcome Trust to hold the first
international conference on Nursing, Genomics and Healthcare in April 2020. Tonkin was
recently been invited to and has accepted the position of co-lead of the Global Genomics
Nursing Alliance (G2NA)

Within the Welsh Institute for Health and Social Care (WIHSC) Kenkre is Co-Director of the
Wales Centre for Primary and Emergency (including Unscheduled) Care Research (PRIME),
which is the equivalent centre to NIHR Primary Care in England, and is funded by Health and
Care Research Wales. It is an all-Wales Centre co-led by Cardiff University, Bangor University,
University of South Wales and Swansea University. Wallace leads on PRIME Work Package
4: ‘Care Closer to Communities’ which is based at USW, and within which the new Wales
School for Social Prescribing Research (WSSPR) has been developed. As Director of
WSSPR and the current grant holder for USW, Wallace sits on the PRIME management
board, the All-Wales Steering Committee, the Operational Working Group, and the HCRW
Research Directors Infrastructure Group. Other members of the UoA (Williams and Llewellyn)
are also multidisciplinary stakeholder members of the PRIME All-Wales Steering Group.

Wallace and Pontin are very successfully building the research environment for Social
Prescribing in Wales. They have worked closely with the Wales Council for Voluntary Action
(WCVA) on the development of the Wales Social Prescribing Research Network (WSPRN). It
has 280 members across Wales and supports a 270-strong community of practice members.
The WSPRN performs the role of the social prescribing circle of interest for Regional Centre of
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Expertise (RCE) Cymru which is one of the 150 international UN universities groups. The UN
University works with leading universities and research institutes in UN Member States,
functioning as a bridge between the international academic community and the United Nations
system). Wallace and Pontin are also members of the Higher Education Future Generations
Group (HEFGG).

Llewellyn leads a team of academics and advisors from four Welsh universities in IMPACT –
the four-year national evaluation the implementation and outcomes of the Social Services and
Well-being (Wales) Act. Llewellyn worked in partnership with the Health Foundation on
its ‘Path to Sustainability’ study in 2016, providing data from a series of participatory events
with key clinical and non-clinical NHS leaders. This helped shape its econometric model
predicting further health and social care spending. He is currently leading a team of academics
to run two mixed methods evaluations of social prescribing interventions across Wales (Social
Prescribing in Mental Health (SPRING) and Improving Mental health through Social
Prescribing (PROSPECT)), which are the first studies of their kind being run in the UK. He also
led a service evaluation and health economics study reviewing the role of Third Sector funded
liaison officers in ophthalmology outpatient clinics, identifying a range of outputs reported in
a recent publication in BMJ Open.

The Addictions Group’s research, membership and impact has gathered significant
momentum since its inception in 2014, providing further evidence of the vitality of the UoA.
Research by John & Roderique-Davies’s into health-related gambling harm led to the
establishment of a Senedd | Welsh Parliament’s Cross Party Group on Problem Gambling.
They are working closely with policy makers on a public health approach to gambling harm.
They have built up a substantial research base in Alcohol Related Brain Damage (ARBD),
which has underpinned the development of the recent Substance Misuse Treatment
Framework in partnership with Public Health Wales on behalf of Welsh Government. The
Addictions group is implementing key recommendations of the Framework by designing and
rolling out training packages that raise awareness of ARBD among service providers. These
are the first initiatives in this area in the UK and have been endorsed by the Royal College of
Psychiatrists (Wales).

Objective 4 was to further develop a research engaged culture through research-informed
teaching across all levels. The UoA has had substantial success in achieving this objective,
including developing and building curricula, professional standards and competencies in nurse,
midwifery and other health professional training programmes in Wales, the wider UK and
internationally. We have also developed models that integrate research collaborations with
research training in taught Masters students. Examples include:

Ross’s EPICC partnership has produced the first set of spiritual care competencies for pre-
registration nurses/midwives; a ‘gold standard’ Spiritual Care Education Matrix; a Toolkit where
teaching and learning materials can be shared; a website to house all of the above (EPICC).
National and international stakeholders include The Royal College of Nursing, the Nursing and
Midwifery Council, Public Health England, NHS England, The Dutch Ethical Board, The
Norwegian Nursing Association, and The Dutch Higher Education Board. Tonkin has
developed a tool through the Global Genomics Nursing Alliance (G2NA) that will benchmark an
organisation or country’s current situation in genomic nursing. Through collaboration with the
original G2NA group (19 country and three international nursing organisation representatives)
Tonkin is currently leading research to define global minimum competencies in genomics for
nurses (irrespective of level of preparation/training, professional role or healthcare system).
This involves working globally with policy makers and nursing leaders to navigate a pathway to
embedding the competencies that are generated within education/training and practice.

Northway’s research in learning disabilities underpins not only the learning disability nursing
curriculum but also wider teaching in relation to nursing and midwifery. Both lecturers and post
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


graduate research students deliver sessions relating to on-going research to undergraduate
students. Students are encouraged to engage in research activities and have been supported
to publish their findings.

Pontin worked with Professor Keith Weeks (a former USW colleague) and others on the
pioneering safeMedicate©, an online simulation education programme for medication dosage
training that has been adopted for clinical training in many countries. The project has launched
a free COVID-19 module to assist NHS staff during the current pandemic crisis. The module
focuses on drugs used to treat life-threatening COVID-19 related illnesses like pneumonia and
acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). These programmes use immersive computer
technology to simulate real-world clinical conditions (and a more realistic learning environment)
for accurate drug dose calculation training.

Lancastle has worked across a number of countries as a health psychology expert engaging
in cross disciplinary education advising fertility nurses on coping support for women during
fertility treatment. She was invited to speak to cohorts of fertility nurses at the BENEFiT Fertility
Roadshow’s continuing professional development events, which were sponsored by Thermex
(a global speciality pharmaceutical company specialising in women's health). The events were
held at the Royal College of Nursing in London, and also in Birmingham, Glasgow,
Manchester, Dublin and Alicante, Spain.

John & Roderique-Davies have worked closely (and have a memorandum of understanding)
with Alcohol Concern for the past seven years. (In April 2017, Alcohol Concern merged with
Alcohol Research UK to form the UK's leading independent alcohol charity. In 2018 the new
organisation was re-branded as Alcohol Change UK). Together with the charity, they
developed a model of integrating research collaboration with developing research skills and
training in taught MSc students, including the importance of dissemination and report writing.
More than 20 students have engaged with this scheme over the past 4 years, and have
contributed to six research projects that have led to reports for Alcohol Change UK. Alcohol
Change UK is a leading charity campaigning for harm reduction in alcohol use, and the report
findings have been directly disseminated to the general public, public health and other policy
stakeholders through its Alcohol Insights online library and other dissemination strategies,
including contributing to a recent high-profile report from the Commission on Alcohol Harm.
The commission, chaired by Baroness Finlay of Llandaff, was established to examine the
current evidence on alcohol harms in order to examine the need for a comprehensive alcohol
strategy for England and to consider UK-wide priorities in non-devolved policy areas.

 Approach to impact and relationship with selected case studies
 Impact is central to the University’s mission as evidenced in the Institutional -level environment
 statement (REF5a). Uptake of impact training activities has been high from researchers across
 the UoA, and is a mandatory aspect of the induction process for our newly appointed
 researchers. The University’s commitment to impact is also evidenced by a competitive
 strategic research and impact investment programme launched in 2019, with a specific focus
 on translational ‘research to impact’ activities. All three impact case studies aligned to the UoA
 successfully secured funds made available through this programme.

 The UoA has operated with an impact led ‘applied research’ strategy for many years.
 Consequently, it has a strong record of beneficial impact on health and welfare, society and
 culture, public policy and services, across regional, national and international communities.
 Enabling impact is embedded within the UoA’s wider research strategy which focuses on:

Developing strategic partnerships and alliances in health and other sectors.
Expanding knowledge exchange partnerships as evidenced by the 23 research students
funded by the Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships (KESS) programme, who are working
on a wide range of partnership projects within the unit.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Integrating the UoA’s research into its teaching curricula;
Engaging with a wide range of potential stakeholder beneficiaries of our research outputs
through embracing an ‘Involving People’ agenda and participatory research methodologies.

The UoA’s KESS partnerships extend across the private, voluntary and public sectors and
illustrate the vitality of our strategy. Examples include Mencap Cymru (Northway); United
Welsh Housing Association Ltd (working with mental health and hoarding behaviour) (Tyson);
Renishaw PLC (A global, high precision healthcare technology group) (Williams); Health and
Her (a start-up company specialising in female health) (Lancastle); NHS Wales Informatics
Service (Wallace); Calan DVS (one of the largest domestic abuse charities in Wales) (Iredale);
Aneurin Bevan Local Health Board (Pontin); Taylor Protective Coatings Ltd (Kenkre); G4S
Care and Justice Services Ltd (Austin); and The Pobl Group Limited (the largest Not For Profit
organisation working with individuals at risk of homelessness in Wales) (Roderique-Davies).

 The unit’s dissemination strategies are also designed to maximise reach, and alongside more
 traditional peer reviewed publications and conference presentations include ‘trade journal’
 articles, social media, stakeholder symposia and public forums. Northway’s research into
 safeguarding adults with learning disabilities has since been used to underpin CPD training
 activities with local Health Boards. It has also led to the development of the second edition of
 the text book ‘Safeguarding Adults in Nursing Practice’ (Northway and Jenkins) which remains
 the only text book dedicated to this specific topic and which has sold both within the UK and
 internationally. The participatory research study ‘Looking into Abuse’ (Northway et al, 2013)
 was cited as an example of co-production in action in the European Commission (2018)
 Technical Dossier Number 4 ‘Co-Production. Enhancing the role of citizens in governance and
 service delivery’. Along with one of her Early career Researchers (ECRs), Northway worked
 with the Welsh Government to scope current learning disability research in Wales to inform
 implementation of the Improving Lives Strategy (Welsh Government Learning Disability
 Programme) and identified priorities for future research.

The WIHSC group (led by Wallace) has recently published their evaluation of three
Neighbourhood District Nursing pilot projects in Wales. A Statement from the Minister for
Health in the Welsh Government announced the publication of the USW review. The Minister
stated that in line with USW’s recommendations, he has made a financial commitment to an all
Wales approach to caseload e-scheduling for district nursing, and that he is appointing a
National Nursing Lead for Primary & Community Care to roll out the learning from the pilots.

The three selected case studies are excellent examples of the embedded nature of impact to
the research work of the unit, and to the success of its multifaceted approach to developing
and sustaining impact.

Case study 1: The Family Resilience Assessment Instrument and Tool (FRAIT) policy
impact for health visiting. This research programme by Wallace and Pontin clearly
demonstrates the unit’s approach to impact through the development of strong strategic
partnerships in conjunction with knowledge exchange strategies. Understanding ‘family
resilience’ can lead to better support for families and improved child health and developmental
outcomes. However, the researchers identified that family therapy-derived measurements of
‘family resilience’ were impeding the ability of Health Visitors (HVs) to appropriately assess this
construct in everyday practice. Extensive and well-established partnerships across Health
Boards and Community Nursing facilitated the development of the Family Resilience
Assessment Instrument and Tool (FRAIT) - a more robust and relevant resilience assessment
tool. This was undertaken in a participatory way, and involved practicing HVs at all stages,
including virtual simulation modelling of the tool in USW’s Hydra Minerva Immersive Simulation
Suite (HMISS). The effectiveness of this approach is evidenced by the research’s rapid and
extensive impact. The FRAIT has been adopted into Welsh Government policy through its
‘Healthy Child Wales’ programme (2016). It has made an impact on the professional practice of
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


all Health Visitors (HVs) working with families and pre-school children throughout Wales. Every
NHS-employed HV now uses FRAIT to assess family resilience and aid decision-making
around interventions to improve a family’s resilience, and child health and developmental
outcomes.

Case study 2: Improving spiritual care in nursing and midwifery. Ross has pioneered this
aspect of nursing and midwifery for many years, culminating in an international collaborative
programme of research over the past decade. This case study demonstrates the positive
impact of embedding research into teaching curricula, as well as the importance of
participatory research methodologies. Many hundreds of pre-registration nursing/midwifery
students from eight countries have participated in the various stages of this research
programme, which has used students’ personal operational definitions of spirituality to inform
effective methods of teaching and learning in relation to this construct. The spiritual care
competencies that have been developed from this research are impacting on undergraduate
nurse/midwifery education in Wales and internationally. There is also wider impact on the
education of qualified nurses and of other healthcare staff in the UK and across Europe, as
well as on UK healthcare policy, and ultimately on patient care.
Case study 3: Impacting the lives of individuals at risk of Alcohol Related Brain Damage.
Alcohol Related Brain Damage (ARBD) is a predominantly treatable, yet largely unknown and
underdiagnosed condition that is increasing in prevalence. It has been estimated that just 16%
of sufferers are diagnosed within their lifetime, with many cases wrongly attributed to early
onset dementia. For the past six years Roderique-Davies and John have been at the
forefront of research into ARBD within Wales, which is now considered to be world-leading in
the development of ARBD expertise. This case study highlights the importance of developing
multi-level strategic partnerships and alliances in both the health and public policy sectors in
achieving research impact. The researchers have developed an extensive network of external
partners, including Alcohol Change UK, Public Health Wales, Clinical Addiction Service Leads,
and The Pobl Group. Roderique-Davies and John were invited to co-author Public Health
Wales’ Substance Misuse Treatment Framework Strategy (SMTF) for ARBD. This research
programme has to date impacted on public health policy by underpinning the development of
the Welsh Government’s Substance Misuse Treatment Framework and the recommendations
therein. It has informed clinical knowledge for the accurate identification and assessment of the
condition. Findings from this research have underpinned and led directly to a training
programme to increase awareness and knowledge of the condition among frontline service
providers. This is impacting positively on outcomes for ARBD sufferers. Recent endorsement
by the Royal College of Psychiatrists in Wales, and input into the UK Public Health and
Departments of Health current developments of UK-wide guidelines demonstrates that the
reach of this impact will extend beyond Wales.
Research strategy
 The unit’s strategic aims for 2021-2026 are:

To further enhance the rigour, significance, originality and impact of our research outputs using
a variety of approaches to investigate real world issues in key areas of physical and mental
health and wellbeing.
To increase the translational impact of our research by building the activity and profile of our
partnerships with a wide range of local, national and international external stakeholders. We
intend to enhance current partnerships and seek to develop new alliances.
To further develop and extend the excellent research environment.

The following targets will be key to achieving these aims:

Promote, retain and recruit high quality staff with significant responsibility for research (SRR),
from ECRs to Professors.
Increase grant funding, strategically targeting income that generates high quality research and
results in outstanding publications and translational impact.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Expand the recruitment of postgraduate students.
Provide all staff and students with high quality support, training, development and
dissemination opportunities.

Delivering the research strategy
A number of wider structural systems underpin the unit’s research strategy. For example, USW
is part of the South East Wales Academic Health Science Partnership (SEWAHSP). The
mission of this alliance is to cooperate and collaborate strategically and operationally, to
integrate high quality research and education and to enhance the region’s outputs in
developing and applying improvements, innovations and health technologies to benefit the
health and wealth of the population of Wales. SEWAHSP was established by the Higher
Education Institutions and NHS organisations in South East Wales to reduce fragmentation in
Research and Development (R&D) and accelerate health improvement in line with Welsh
Government policies. It works closely with industry and funders, and brings together
researchers, managers, practitioners, patient groups, planners and policy makers to achieve
the mission.

PRIME Centre Wales ( PRIME) is a research centre focusing on primary and emergency care,
funded by Health and Care Research Wales in order to develop and coordinate research
proposals and support researchers. It is an all-Wales centre co-led by USW, Cardiff University,
Bangor University and Swansea University. The Faculty is also a member of the Wales
Government’s Life Sciences Hub and MediWales which both seek to link the University with
businesses through a range of events and funded activity.

Ethics oversight of the unit’s research is governed by the Faculty Research Ethics Committee,
which includes researchers submitted within this UoA as members (Roderique-Davies,
Lancastle, Northway, Yu, Austin). All researchers are expected to undertake a period of
service with the committee. The Ethics Committee provides an additional quality check on all
National Health Research Authority (NHRA) ethics applications before submission. The
protocols for NHRA applications are used as good practice standards for other ethics
applications within the committee. The Faculty hosts Good Clinical Practice training sessions
to enable research staff to ensure that they complete this training. We have also developed
expertise in developing research that enables the participation of groups often considered
vulnerable in the context of research. (Objective 6).

The UoA’s research strategy is governed, monitored and reviewed through the Lifespan Health
& Wellbeing group structure. All sub groups are led by research professors who report directly
to the Faculty Research and Innovations Committee (RICE). All measurable outcomes and
objectives are recorded in PURE, and quarterly and monthly reports generated for the purpose
of ongoing monitoring of strategic outputs (research papers, income, impact, and other
measures of engagement and success). We are moving towards a routine engagement with
Open Science frameworks. We have recently started engaging in several open science
practices. For example, John & Roderique-Davies have set up an Open Science Framework
project page for their work in the area of Alcohol Related Brain Damage and have begun to
share their analysis codes and outputs from studies there. They are also using this accessible
project page to share study materials and supplemental files, increasing transparency and the
ability of others to replicate their findings.

At a broader base level, all academic staff within the unit’s schools are expected to join one of
seven Cognate Research Groups. Each group has a specific theme or focus, under the broad
umbrella of Lifespan Health & Wellbeing, and these are constructed to encourage and facilitate
cross disciplinary research collaborations. As internally facing groups, they provide important
opportunities for early career academics and clinical/practitioner academics to be mentored in
research development and training.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Postgraduate researchers are also administered and governed at Faculty level, with ultimate
oversight falling to the University Graduate School. The Faculty Postgraduate Co-ordinator sits
on the Faculty Research Committee.


2. People

Staffing strategy
The unit’s recruitment strategy aims to increase the number of independent researchers
producing high quality outputs and impact, as well as encourage progression and promotion of
ECR and other career stage researchers. Research Professors are now mandatory members
of interview appointment panels to ensure research excellence and potential is given due
consideration in new appointments. John, Ross, Williams, Steggall, Roderique-Davies,
Wallace and Todd have been promoted internally to Professor during the assessment period,
and Angelakis and Tonkin have been promoted to Associate Professors. Staff within the unit
have been allocated additional support in the past two years by the appointment of six extra
FTE Research Assistants (RAs) to support key aspects of the research agenda such as data
collection, analysis, report writing and funding application preparation. These are mostly
funded by internal university investment and from QR monies. Staff development across the
unit is aligned to research as well as teaching priorities. The UoA is strongly committed to
supporting & integrating individuals at the beginning of their research careers, as evidenced by
the fact that four ECRs are included in the unit’s submission (Wallace, S., Sabolova, Davies
and Midgley).

 The unit is committed to the university’s Strategic Equality Plan, as set out in the institutional
 level environment statement, with inclusivity at the core of our work. Of the 12 Research
 Professors in the unit, six are female.

 Members of the unit are active in a number of the University’s formal Equality and Diversity
 structures, including as representatives on Athena SWAN; the Gender, Gender Identity &
 Sexual Orientation Equality Sub Group; the Race, Religion & Belief Equality Group; Women in
 Academia; and the Women in STEM network. USW was the founder of the Wales Women in
 STEM Network (WWiSN) in 2019. The WWiSN includes an online collaborative platform that
 brings together females in STEM from academia and industry. It offers a networking space, a
 repository of STEM initiatives, support for employers, highlights STEM events and profiles
 inspirational females in STEM. Within the first month, 117 females joined the collaborative
 platform, with 855 suggested collaborations made based on members’ areas for development
 and expertise. USW will continue to develop and implement the WWiSN, broadening its reach
 across women and girls in Wales working, or aspiring to work, in STEM in Further Education
 (FE), Industry and Academia.

 Staff development
 The USW Academic Workload Model makes a time allocation of 20% for staff with Significant
 Responsibility for Research, with professors allocated 30% from 2018-19. Within the context of
 USW as a post-92 institution, the members of UoA A3 have varying levels of teaching and
 other duties. The UoA leader (John) is allocated additional time within the Workload Model for
 research leadership. In addition, timetabling is managed so as to allow a clear day for research
 per week and, when appropriate, to allow for ‘light’ teaching terms. All USW staff have a formal
 annual Development and Performance Review with their line manager, during which annual
 performance targets are set in partnership, and the previous year’s performance is reviewed.
 Research is a key element of this and staff are aligned with a Research Professor for this
 purpose, which includes a 12-month review in June-September and a mid-point review in
 January-February. In addition, the UoA leader meets regularly with Unit members and offers
 individual mentoring as and where appropriate.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


All staff, including those not actively engaged in independent research, are expected to join
one of the themed Cognate Research Groups within the Lifespan Health and Wellbeing Group.
Membership of these subgroups is also open to colleagues operating outside of the Lifespan
Health and Wellbeing Research Group to encourage cross-fertilisation of ideas, knowledge
and skills. Each group is led by a Research Professor. Infrastructure support has been
provided by the Faculty over the past four years to facilitate staff research development. This
has included:

£80,000 pump priming funding has been provided for Cognate Group developmental activity.
Formal interactions are fostered through seminar series and regular Cognate Group meetings
to discuss research proposals, outputs, grant activity and impact.
Staff with significant responsibility for research (SRR) have protected time to conduct their
work.
Faculty-funded enhanced research time by providing competitive Fellowships for ECRS (40%
of formal workload protected) and more senior researchers (70% of formal workload protected)
for the 2016-2019 academic years. Roderique-Davies, Ross and Todd secured senior
Fellowships, and Angelakis secured an ECR Fellowship.
Senior researchers provide mentorship and guidance to help develop research, outputs,
impact and funding applications.
Funding is provided for staff and postgraduate research students to attend international
conferences.
Central University services, as detailed in the institutional-level environment statement, further
support researchers through training, assistance in writing funding bids, providing information
on funding opportunities, and the integration of impact into all aspects of the research process,
from project genesis to dissemination.
The University’s Research and Innovation Services Office runs a rolling series of training and
refresher workshop courses on all aspects of supervising and examining PGR students. These
are mandatory for all research staff engaging with PGR students. More details are set out in
the institutional level environment statement.
The unit has ten Professors Emeritus who continue to contribute their expertise.

Postgraduate researchers
Objective 5 of the UoA’s 2014-21 strategy of building a sustainable and vibrant research
community was to expand and further develop a lively community of postgraduate researchers
who are excellently equipped for their future careers. Table 1 (below) demonstrates how
research student numbers have grown during the current assessment period. 71 research
students are currently registered within the unit, a significant increase from the REF 2014
assessment period. 39 PhD students have successfully completed between 2014 and 2020, an
increase of 15 from the previous REF period). The balance of self/externally funded students
has also shifted significantly to the latter during this period, providing further evidence of the
UoA’s success in building its doctoral student community. Twenty-three of our current students
are KESS funded. This is further evidence of the unit’s engagement with industry partners and
its determination to provide research students with meaningful translational research
experience that produces real world impact.

 Table 1. UoA 3 Postgraduate Research Student Completions 2014-2020

  Date period                             Number of Doctoral completions
  1 August 2013 to 31 July 2014           3
  1 August 2014 to 31 July 2015           8
  1 August 2015 to 31 July 2016           4
  1 August 2016 to 31 July 2017           7
  1 August 2017 to 31 July 2018           4
  1 August 2018 to 31 July 2019           4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  1 August 2019 to 31 July 2020          9
  Total for all years                    39


The Postgraduate Research Student environment is supported at Institutional, Faculty, UoA
and Research Group levels. The institutional level environment statement sets out in detail the
support offered at University level, including the establishment of a Graduate School and a
wide range of training programmes. The Faculty level support is described below. UoA and
Research Group level support include open plan office space within small groups at USW’s
Glyntaf and Trefforest campuses. This arrangement successfully provides both social and
practical support for students at different stages of their PhD studies, and helps alleviate the
potential feelings of isolation sometimes reported by PGRs. The PGR student body has
recently set up their own informal Continuing Professional Development and social network for
PGR students across research groups within the unit, further demonstrating the positive and
supportive nature of the environment we have created. During the COVID-19 lockdown period,
we have facilitated virtual PGR groups as a means providing continuing support. Students
have engaged very positively with these, as evidenced both by their feedback and by the
shared resource materials (provided by students themselves) accumulating on specific Teams
groups, ranging from general research training resources to specific tutorials in using the R
statistical software environment.

Postgraduate research student environment (Faculty level)
Part of the research mission in the Faculty of Life Sciences is to generate new knowledge and
help people apply that knowledge within a culture of continuous improvement. Promoting a
high-quality learning environment for research students is an important part of the Faculty’s
approach. It has a large body of full-time and part-time students, based locally and
internationally. Some students are supervised solely from within the Faculty while others are
supervised in collaboration with colleagues at home and abroad. The aim is always to provide
a supervisory team with the best possible expertise to support the students in their chosen
fields of study.

The Faculty continues to focus on improving the student experience and has consistently high
student ratings for the Faculty research environment. The Faculty of Life Science and
Education (LSE) provides dedicated postgraduate research offices, offering an environment for
students to engage with each other from disciplines across the Faculty. PGRs are encouraged
to attend a variety of regular Faculty events such as the Annual Research Student
Presentation Day, Tea at 3 Faculty seminars, Cognate/Research Group meetings and Idea,
Question, Design (IDQ) sessions. LSE continues to promote engagement with its research
student community and offers bespoke training sessions negotiated with research students
according to their expressed needs and stage of their studies.

The Faculty has a Research Student Coordinator (RSC) who is responsible for quality
assurance and the research student experience, and acts as an independent point of contact
for students and the supervision team. PGR students are invited to apply to be Faculty
Research Student Representatives, which specifically involves:
Membership of the Faculty Research Degrees Committee (FRDC)
Membership of the Graduate School Board
Engaging with the PGR community
Soliciting the views of the PGR community on the PGR student experience and providing a
student voice
Reporting to FRDC and Graduate School Board on research student activity and any issues
and concerns

The open agenda section of the Faculty Research Programmes Committee provides a formal
mechanism for students to discuss issues, although PGRs also engage regularly with the RSC.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Student representatives have set up a Facebook page for PGRs and hold a regular coffee
mornings funded by the Faculty.

In addition to formal supervisor training, LSE provides supervisor surgeries at each campus,
which are well attended by supervisors. The surgeries provide a forum for updating supervisors
on regulations as well as discussion of any challenges and areas of good supervisory practice.


3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income
£6,213,409 has been directly secured by the unit during the census period, approximately 40%
more than the previous REF cycle. This has come from a range of external funding sources, as
well as additional structural funding success. These include:

Research Capacity Building Collaboration (RCBC Wales) Funding - Health and Care
Research Wales (£996,157) (March 2020). USW is the grant holder and administrator
(Steggall, Dolan and Kenkre).
RCBC Wales is a collaboration between six university nursing and allied health departments to
increase research capacity in nursing, midwifery, the allied health professions and pharmacists
across Wales. RCBC offers a variety of different schemes ranging from First into Research
opportunities to doctoral and postdoctoral studies. RCBC Wales provides bespoke research
capacity building opportunities and support for evolving professional groups to develop their
research skills and leadership skills, as well as networking across Wales, Europe and the rest
of the world. This follows on from a 2016 extension to funding of £599,996

 PRIME Centre Wales funding (from 2021 – 2026) has been confirmed for a total of
 £4,856,662.47. This includes £221,916 for work on social prescribing which was initially
 submitted as a separate bid. USW staff who were listed as co-applicants on the bid include:
 Wallace, Kenkre, Pontin, Northway, Llewellyn, Williams, Smith, Todd, Elliott. The previous
 PRIME bid in 2015 was awarded at £2,700,000 and the extension (awarded in 2018) was for
 £1,799,935 (USW’s total share £562,533).

 HEFCW funding - University of South Wales partnered with Glyndwr University on a bid for
 £430,000 of funding for a social prescribing and mental health & well-being project for students
 (USW £180,943). Of this £110,000 of the funding has been allocated specifically for research
 and evaluation of the project. USW staff involved include: Wallace, Llewellyn, Pontin,
 Wallace, Davies and Elliott.


 Infrastructure and facilities
 There has been considerable investment in the unit’s research infrastructure since 2014. The
 Clinical Simulation Centre has an excellent range of facilities which support the creation of
 authentic simulated clinical settings. It is situated in the Tramsheds on USW’s lower Glyntaff
 Campus and houses simulated environments ranging from a home setting to highly specialised
 clinical contexts, including intensive care and emergency departments (the latter includes an
 ambulance simulator). There are a range of low-, medium- and high-fidelity human patient
 simulators across the age continuum, and sophisticated technologies managed by a central
 hub to observe, film and record activity across all areas of the Centre. Tonkin, Lancastle and
 Yu are currently utilising this resource as part of their innovative ‘Walking in their Shoes’
 research, which focuses on increasing empathy levels in health professionals.

Since the outbreak of COVID-19 in the UK, the Clinical Simulation Centre has played a key
role in the effort to fight the pandemic. The Centre’s specialist staff have been helping prepare
nurses to care for seriously ill patients by conducting training sessions in intensive care
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


nursing, developing their knowledge, skills and understanding in this highly specialised area.
The Simulation Centre has also been used to produce training videos on using ventilators –
specialist equipment used in when a patient’s own respiratory system fails.

The Hydra Simulation Centre, based in USW’s Elaine Morgan Building, is a high-tech
experiential training tool that enables the monitoring of group dynamics, real-time leadership
and naturalistic decision making in critical incidents. It provides a unique learning and research
environment and is used to conduct realistic immersive, simulated scenarios. It was used by
Pontin and Wallace, working with Community Health Visitors, as a central element of the
validation of the FRAIT tool.
The UoA’s laboratories on USW’s Trefforest campus house extensive specialist
biopsychosocial equipment including CANTAB Cognition Testing Systems, BioPac Systems,
Relax Trace Software, Tobii Pro Eye Tracker suites (desk based and mobile), and a Reflotron
Plus Desktop Analyser for quantitative determination of 17 clinical chemistry parameters
directly from whole blood, plasma or serum. These are extensively used by the Addictions
Research group, with recent work including the evaluation of potential public health impacts of
different types of alcohol product labelling, and the implications for public health of embedded
gambling products in Premier League football shirts and stadiums (John and Roderique-
Davies).

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

UoA staff collaborate locally, nationally and internationally with partners from industry and
academia to provide world-leading knowledge and impact. The unit has strong relationships
with a range of stakeholders/key research users. We have and will continue to seize
opportunities through strategic health and care alliances to develop partnership and
collaborations. This is especially important in Wales where the Social Services and Wellbeing
(Wales) Act 2014 and Well-being of Future Generations (Wales) Act (2015) requires all health
and care partners to work together through either cooperation, partnership or the integration of
care in certain settings. The unit has an excellent track record of engaging and working closely
with NHS and other external partners. A good example of this is the Teaching and Research
Advisory Committee (TRAC), a group of men and women with learning disabilities who have
been meeting monthly at USW for the past 18 years and who advise in relation to research
priorities, the design of research studies, the development of applications for ethical approval
and dissemination. TRAC have also worked as co-applicants on projects and co-authors on
publications.

The unit also has extremely close clinical, research and teaching ties with Health Boards
across Wales and internationally – particularly Cwm Taf Morgannwg University Health Board,
which is USW’s local Health Board, and which became a University Health Board during the
current assessment period. The UoA has appointed Visiting Professors (VPs) and Visiting
Fellows (VFs) across many disciplines and areas of expertise. The unit currently has 23 VPs
and 26 VFs alongside 10 Professors Emeritus. Examples of the UoA’s collaborative work
include:

 Steggall and Kenkre lead the All Wales Research Capacity Building Collaboration (RCBC
 Wales) and associated Community of Scholars that is building clinical research and leadership
 capacity in Nursing, Midwifery, Pharmacy and Allied Health Professionals (20 professional
 groups in all).

Kenkre is leading in collaboration across Wales on the development of the Wales School of
Primary Care (now PRIME Centre Wales). This is funded by the Welsh Government as a
Centre for Research Excellence for research conduct, capacity and capability. Kenkre is also
leading the development of research with industry through the South East Wales Academic
Health Science Partnership (SEWAHSP). This has led to a range of developments in research
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


and product development especially through joint funding between industry and through the
Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships (KESS)

Wallace leads on the PRIME ‘Care Closer to Communities’ research scheme. For example,
working closely with the Wales Council for Voluntary Action (WCVA) on the development of the
Wales Social Prescribing Research Network, which has 280 members across Wales and
supports 500 community of practice members. It uses a translational model of research, and
includes members from the Third Sector, Higher Education, statutory social care and health
organisations (e.g. practitioners, commissioners), members of the public, the independent
sector and industry.

Northway was Chair of the Royal College of Nursing Research Society Steering Committee
(2011-18) and over recent years has held numerous prestigious positions relating to her field.
These include membership of: the UK Steering Group for Strengthening the Commitment (the
UK Learning Disability Nursing Strategy); the Research for Patient Benefit Grants Committee
for Health and Care Research Wales; the RCN Fellows Group; the Scientific Committee for
the RCN International Research Conference; Mencap Advisory Panel; Co-Chair of the Welsh
Government Learning Disability Advisory Group; Chair of the Wales Ministerial Advisory Group
for implementation of the ‘Strengthening the Commitment’ Report. Along with Steggall she
was a member of the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) Thought Leadership Group that
developed the new standards for Pre-registration Nurse Education. Other members of the UoA
(Ross, Pontin) also contributed expert advice to this process.
 Ross has developed collaborative networks with nurse/midwifery educators in 24 universities
across 16 countries (and is informing their curricula, teaching, policy, research, clinical
practice). She has international partnerships with a multidisciplinary consortia of health
professionals working in health failure and palliative care. Steggall is a Board Member of both
Health and Care Research Wales and the Wales Institute of Social and Economic Research
(WISERD).
John and Roderique-Davies have strong collaborations with key policy-making groups, and
voluntary and Third Sector organisations that facilitate rapid impact of their research. A Welsh
Senedd Members’ group commissioned them to lead an investigation into the health and social
harms of problem gambling that led directly to the creation of a cross-party group to champion
policy and legislative change. John & Roderique-Davies are invited independent members of
this group, and have recently undertaken a rapid review/positioning paper on behalf of the
Chair of the cross-party group to underpin a submission to the UK Government setting out
‘What Wales wants to see in the United Kingdom Government’s Gambling Bill’. They are
steering group members of the Beat the Odds Initiative, an international alliance of Recovery
groups, including The Victorian Responsible Gambling Federation, in Melbourne, Australia,
leading academics and addiction charities. Their strategic partnerships in reducing and
preventing Alcohol Related brain Damage (ARBD) include The Pobl Group, Alcohol Change
UK, and Public Health Wales. As a direct result, they were invited to co-author the Public
Health Wales Substance Misuse Treatment Framework for ARBD, a Welsh Government policy
document to inform Health and Social Care Commissioners and Service Providers to design
and deliver evidence-based prevention and treatment interventions.

Lancastle has developed multidisciplinary alliances in her work in women’s reproductive
health, including infertility, ovarian cancer screening, uterine fibroids, and heavy menstrual
bleeding. These include the Female Health Special Interest Group (SIG) at the Life Sciences
Hub, Cardiff Bay; Liaison Psychiatry (University Hospital of Wales), Cardiff; the pharmaceutical
company Gedeon Richter; Preglem; Theramex; Merck Serono; University Medical Centre,
Utrecht and Cardiff Fertility Studies Group at Cardiff University.

Tonkin is a member of the steering group of the Global Genomics Nursing Alliance and a
member of the British Society for Genetic Medicine (BSGM), the Association of Genetic Nurses
and Counsellors (AGNC) and the International Society of Nurses in Genetics (ISONG).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Llewellyn is a Multidisciplinary Stakeholder Lead and Executive Board member
of PRIME Centre Wales; an advisor on the Central Research Committee at Disability
Research on Independent Living and Learning (DRILL); Wales Representative on the Expert
Reference Group on Options for Funding the NHS and Social Care, for Rand Europe (July
2017-April 2018); Independent Member of the Clinical Ethics Committee at Cwm Taf University
Health Board; Trustee, Board Member and Company Director on the Wales Council for
Voluntary Action; and an Associate Member of the Welsh Institute for Social and Economic
Research, Data and Methods (WISERD).

Tyson has extensive community networks that underpin his research in mental health and
well-being in community settings. These include the United Welsh Housing Association;
Cheltenham Town football club (conducting evaluations of their MENTalk and GIRLTalk
programmes); the Football League Trust; Swansea City FC; Clarity in Mind.

All members of the unit are regular expert reviewers for a wider range of peer review journals
and funding bodies. Most have positions on journal editorial boards.
