Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: Durham University
Unit of assessment: UoA 8 CHEMISTRY
Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
Unit context: Chemistry is one of eight departments within the Science Faculty and is a
thriving centre for research and education. We have an academic staff of: 22 Full, 11
Associate and 8 Assistant Professors; 5 Fellows (RS URF, GCRF, BBSRC) and 5
Teaching staff (total male/female 40/11; BAME 4; REF headcount 46; Cat. A FTE 44.2),
supported by cohorts of ca. 40 PDRA and ca. 90 PhD students. Four current staff (Badyal,
Howard, Hutson, Parker) are Fellows of the Royal Society. The academic community is
supported by 45 non-academic staff (41.8 FTE) (technical, administrative, analytical). We
teach ca. 600 FTE undergraduates via 4-year MChem (Research, International and
Industry routes) and 3-year BSc courses as well as multi-disciplinary degrees under the
Natural Sciences programme. We have a strong ethos for collaborative research and
impact within the Department, with the University’s Research Centres and Institutes, and
with strategic external partners.
The Department is ranked highly in 2021 Chemistry league tables (UK: 4th Times, 4th
Complete University guides, 2nd Guardian) and Top 100 in the world (85th Physical
sciences, Times Higher; 51-100 QS(2020)). In the REF period, the Department has
published 1413 outputs with a total citation count of >22,000 and combined h-5 index of 47
(SciVal, Aug 2020).
Research strategy, themes and structure: Durham Chemistry's research is organised to
enable the discipline-focussed breakthroughs that come from individual PIs tackling
specific research problems, whilst simultaneously targeting the larger societal-scale
research themes that can only be tackled by building multi-investigator collaborative teams
(Figure 1). This approach was developed under the University 2017–2027 strategy and
outlined in the institutional environment submission.
Following REF2014 we collectively identified three central interdisciplinary grand-challenge
themes where we have the crictical mass and core skills to have impact: “New Materials”,
the “Bio-Economy” and “Manufacturing the Future”. The New Materials theme allow us to
target the technology-enabling new compounds, composites and treatments identified as
needed for economic success by Innovate UK; the Bio-Economy theme clusters activities
around bio-based products, sustainable and resource-efficient solutions to challenges in
the food and chemical sectors, health and the environment; while Manufacturing the Future
helps tension research against delivering real-world impact. The themes link to our 41 PI-
led research groups through six Research Groupings (RGs). RGs bring together teams of
between four and twelve PIs, from different traditional I/O/P subdisciplines, who can tackle
research projects collaboratively through either aligned (for scale) or complementary skills.
The constituency of the RGs, their areas of scientific focus and their 2020–25 aims are
summarised in Table 1.
RG activities are underpinned by two additional cross-grouping focus areas: “Analytical
and spectroscopy” and “Education and training”. The first of these enable 12 analytical
research support staff to work closely with PIs to develop new techniques and maintain
infrastructure to underpin our research portfolio. The Education focus guides pedagogy in
the Department, helps link research to our undergraduate curricula and helps us develop
and deliver effective research training to our CDT and other PhD students.
We have a strong focus on interdisciplinary research (expanded later) and intra-
Departmental structures mesh with larger research Centres and Institutes within the
University (Figure 1). We also interact closely with many external partners such as industry,

1
Northern 8 (N8) University partners and catapult centres such as the Centre for Process
Innovation (CPI). As a specific example, our Bioactive Chemistry Research Grouping
comprises seven PI-led groups who work alongside staff from other Departments under
the umbrella of Durham's Biophysical Science Instutute (BSI); they lead a multi-partner
international GCRF Network in Neglected Tropical Diseases as part of the activities of the
Centre for Infectious Diseases, which is part of the cross-faculty Wolfson Research Institute
for Health and Wellbeing.




                     Figure 1: Research organisation at DU Chemistry

Research focus and research objectives (2020–2025): The focus areas of each RG is
summarised in Table 1 which also contains the overarching aims of the grouping for the
next five-year period. These are reviewed and agreed annually by Research Committee.

    Table 1:Research             Research focus areas
    Groupings (RGs);
                                 2020–25 specific aims
    RG leader

    Soft Matter and Interfaces   We adopt an integrated, interdisciplinary approach across
    Badyal, Bain, Cooper,        soft matter and soft interface research from fundamental
    Hutchings, Kataky, Miller,   aspects to fully realised industrial and societal
    Thompson, Wilson             applications, and from development of computational
                                 methodology to experimental innovation. We combine
                                 expertise across disciplines in chemistry at key interfaces
                                 with physics and biology.
                                 1. Further expand portfolio of industry-aligned research
                                 enabled by Soft Matter and Functional Interfaces 2 CDT
                                 (SOFI) renewal and continue strategic partnership
                                 research with P&G; 2. Develop predictive tools for design
                                 and optimisation of industrial formulations; 3. Translate
                                 bio-inspired surface technology into societal benefits in


2
                                  water harvesting, water purification, and antimicrobial
                                  protection.
    Bioactive Chemistry and       The grouping applies its expertise in physical,
    Synthesis                     bioinorganic and organic chemistry, integrated structural
    Cobb, Kadri+, Karunakaran+,   biology, spectroscopy and imaging of biological matter to
    Mahon, Mackenzie×, Pohl,      solve fundamental problems at the interface between
    Sanderson, Steel              chemistry and biosciences. We place particular
                                  emphasis on designing and synthesising chemical
                                  probes to address neglected tropical diseases and wider
                                  therapeutics.
                                  1. Expand our research portfolio and strategic
                                  partnerships with companies in the bio-economy and
                                  international research organisations of the Molecular
                                  Science for Medicine CDT (MosMed). 2. Establish a
                                  sustainable research program on Neglected Tropical
                                  Diseases (NTD) with our overseas partners building on
                                  the success of the GCRF NTD Network; 3. Develop new
                                  chemical compounds and tools for drug discovery and
                                  diagnostics.
    Computational and Dynamics Develop the fundamental scientific understanding that
    Curchod*, Hutson,Tozer,    underpins chemical and physical processes through the
    Verlet, Wrede              development and use of computational quantum and
                               classical mechanics, and by applying laser manipulation
                               and innovative spectroscopic methods.
                                  1. Develop and apply novel methods at ultra-cold
                                  temperatures to enable new quantum technologies
                                  enabled by £6.7M Quantum Science with Ultracold
                                  Molecules (QSUM) grant; 2. Exploit sensitive new
                                  spectroscopic methods to advance health-care
                                  technologies. 3. Design and use methods to understand
                                  photon and electron driven chemistry in materials, the
                                  atmosphere and the interstellar medium.
    Functional Molecules and      Preparation, analysis, understanding and exploitation of
    Materials                     functional molecules and materials with applications from
    Beeby, Bryce, Coleman, I      materials science to the life sciences. Our focus areas
    Evans, J Evans, Hodgkinson,   include energy generation, storage and conversion,
    Howard, Johnston*,            imaging, sensing and detection, electronic, magnetic and
    McGonigal*, Pal$, Palsson,    photoresponsive properties, bioactive and
    Parker, Williams              pharmaceutical behaviour.
                                  1. Further develop strengths in photo active materials
                                  and molecules for sensing and therapeutics; 2. Develop
                                  new research strengths in switchable molecular materials
                                  and their applications. 3. Strengthen energy materials
                                  research strands including enhanced training through the
                                  Renewable Energy CDT (ReNu).
    Catalysis and Sustainable     Demonstrate new clean & sustainable routes for the
    Chemical Processes            production of feedstock chemicals from biomass and
    Baxendale, Beaumont, Dyer,    waste materials. Identify step-change improvements in
    Fox, Sandford, Taylor*,       established chemical manufacturing routes by efficiency
    Walton, Whiting               of both chemistries and processes. Use insight from



3
                                  cutting-edge characterisation and mechanistic science to
                                  deliver improved catalyst systems for industry.
                                  1. Exploit and develop IPR around flow-catalysis and
                                  microprocess chemistry; 2. Develop efficient methane
                                  activation/oxidation catalysts for resource-efficient
                                  chemical processes with industry partners; 3. Continue to
                                  grow existing external partnerships spanning industry,
                                  global academia and the EPSRC UK Catalysis Hub and
                                  the N8.
    Physical Organic & Assembly Molecular assembly and function in organic molecules
    Hodgson, Kitching$,         and materials. Molecular properties and reactivities are
    O'Donoghue, Steed           tailored through gaining fundamental (quantitative)
                                understanding using photophysical, computational,
                                kinetic, supramolecular and crystallographic techniques
                                to inform synthesis of new molecules, materials and
                                processes.
                                  1. Exploit cutting edge kinetic analysis for operando
                                  delineation of mechanisms and predicting reactivity
                                  patterns in areas including chiral quaternary ammonium
                                  salts, reactivity scales of carbenes and phosphorylation
                                  reactions; 2. Deliver quantitative understanding of the
                                  intermolecular interactions underpinning self-assembly
                                  processes; 3. Apply our understanding to new
                                  chemistries including enzyme cofactors, industrial
                                  biocatalysts and designer crystallisations.
*ECR; $Royal Society URF, now permanent; +GCRF Fellow; ×BBSRC Fellow
The Department as a whole has set five overarching focus areas for 2020–2025:
 Funding/building on strengths: We plan a number of collaborative multi-disciplinary,
  multi-investigator research activities based on the strength areas of our Research
  Groupings and our links to University research centres and other partners. These
  include: photo active materials and molecules for sensing, therapeutic and emission-
  dependent applications; exploitation of first-principles soft-matter modelling to societally
  important formulation challenges; application of biochemical expertise to treat neglected
  tropical diseases; improved understanding of photon and electron driven chemistry in
  materials, the atmosphere and the interstellar medium; improved industrial
  sustainability via application of novel chemical processes, mechanistic insight and
  enhanced catalysts.
 Partnerships: One of Durham’s strengths has been our ability to assemble dynamic PI
  teams to tackle interdisciplinary research challenges, often in partnership with other
  Durham Departments or external bodies. Partnership-working remains a high priority.
  We will continue to focus on key industry-facing research partnerships. We will exploit
  links developed through recent ERDF Collaborative Outreach to SME's in Applied Surface
  Engineering Technologies (COAST) funding to continue collaborative research with local
  SMEs. We will follow through on a number of initiatives in collaboration with our local
  LEP, the N8 and the Centre for Process and Innovation (CPI). We will continue to
  develop our research partnership with P&G, with particular focus on soft matter
  chemistry and challenges at the chemistry-life sciences boundary. We will develop new
  industrial partnerships.
 Studentships and community: We will continue to attract the best staff and students to
  Durham University. Sustain our research community by identifying internal and external
  funding streams to keep PhD student enrolment at ca. 35 pa. We will support our current

4
      CDTs in delivering high-quality PhD training, and plan for their renewal. Our EDI
      strategy aims to foster an inclusive, supportive, collaborative and collegiate culture at
      all levels of the Department. Our planned activities should allow us to obtain Athena
      Swan silver recognition within five years. We will ensure that staff working across the
      research spectrum from blue-skies to applied are appropriately supported, recognised
      and rewarded, and will continue to encourage student enterprise, using Plastech (see
      below) as an exemplar.
 Internationalisation: We will grow our international links through Erasmus/Turing,
  industry and academic research collaborations. We will exploit research collaborations
  built up through recent GCRF funding in the area of neglected tropical diseases and are
  building research links to a number of international companies through research
  interactions detailed elsewhere.
 Infrastructure: A successful chemistry department needs a fit-for-purpose building and
  state-of-the-art analytical facilities. By 2025 we will have implemented the laboratory
  and infrastructure refurbishment with a £15M investment from the University. In parallel,
  we are working towards a new Chemistry building with a target build date of 2030.


Research management: Monitoring and reviewing our research strategy are the
responsibilities of our Research Committee (ResCom) (Table 2). ResCom reports directly
to the Board of Studies (BOSIC), which administrates, supports and monitors all
Departmental activities. Cross-committee representation means that key aspects of EDI,
safety, staff progression, outreach and postgraduate training are integral to ResCom
operations. We ensure each committee membership has an appropriate balance of gender
and career stage and reflect this in our workload model. Research Centres and Institutes
(Figure 1) are assessed annually by the Faculty and University Research Committee, on
which the Department has representation (Bain is DU Vice Provost Research; Cobb is BSI
Director). DU Professional support personnel provide legal, financial, technology transfer,
research support, HR and IT services.

    Table 2: Committees – Members           Committee remit

    Research Committee (ResCom) –           Formulates/implements research and impact
    DoR, Director of Impact (DoI), HoD,     strategy, PGR funding, grant applications,
    RG leaders underlined in Table 1,       awards, impact activities and research leave.
    Research Admin. (8 male/2 female)       Oversees analytical facilities and workshops.
    Management Advisory Board (MAB)         Advises HoD on education and research strategy
    – HoD, DoR, DoE, Dir. Graduate          and implementation, budgetary, appointments,
    Studies (DGS), EDI Chair, BOSIC         infrastructure, operational and personnel issues.
    member, Dept. manager. (5 male/2
    female)
    Equality, Diversity and Inclusion       Develops EDI culture within the Department,
    Committee (EDI) – Chair, Secretary,     implements the Race Equality Charter, Athena
    HoD, 7 staff: 3 PDRA, 2 PGR, 2 UG.      Swan strategy; advises upon transparency and
    (11 male/9 female)                      equality of all Departmental procedures.
    Safety Committee – Chair, Secretary,    Implements DU Health and Safety policies,
    DU safety advisor, Technical safety     engender a safe working environment;
    coordinator, 6 staff, 1 PDRA, 1 PG,     prevention of injury; oversees good lab practice;
    Biosciences rep. (9 male/3 female)      monitors safety protocols for the use of radiation,
                                            laser, chemical and biological materials.
    Department Promotion and                Appraisal of staff through published University
    Progression Committee (DPPC) –          promotion and progression criteria;


5
    HoD, DoR, DoE, 2 BOSIC, external       recommendations for promotion and
    academic, Faculty rep., Dept           discretionary awards, individual feedback on
    manager. (6 male/2 female)             career progress.
    Outreach Committee – Chair, 6 staff.   Promotion of activities to enthuse and inform the
    (4 male/2 female)                      public in the chemical sciences by targeted visits
                                           to schools or festivals.
    Graduate Studies Committee (GSC) – All aspects of recruitment, training, monitoring
    DGS, 3 Academics, Postgrad.        and welfare of graduate students.
    Admin., 3 PG. (5 male/3 female)


Review of achievements against plans from REF2014: specific plans described in REF
2014 included:
     Partnerships: Our strategic partnership with P&G has continued and ICS 3 describes
      effects on the products and practices within the company. This collaboration has grown
      to a £26M grant portfolio across the University. The Integrated Chemical Research
      Facility (ICRF) (£1.4M investment 2013) allowed seven companies and SMEs to
      complete 18 proof-of-concept studies (e.g. Sterling Pharma, Romag, Chemoxy,
      Sinopec) contributing £90K income to the Department and initiating longer term
      research projects (e.g. Thomas Swan, Sinopec). Individual PI-industry collaborations
      continue to flourish both with UK-based (e.g. GSK, Johnson Matthey, Afton, Syngenta,
      AstraZeneca, Evonetix) and international companies (e.g. SONY–Germany, Murata–
      Japan, Shell–USA, Abbvie–USA) via CASE-type and fully funded PhD/PDRA routes.
     Doctoral training: We successfully targeted industry-academia training of student
      cohorts through initiatives with industry, UKRI and EU funders. Our CDT in Soft Matter
      and Interfaces (SOFI, 2014–2022) recruited 81 PhD students (40 at Durham) over 5
      cohorts involving 25 industrial partners including Croda, Mondelez, Nestlé, Synthomer,
      GSK & Schlumberger. In 2019, several CDTs involving Durham Chemistry were
      supported: the enhanced SOFI programme (SOFI2, 2019–28, £5.4M, Durham-led with
      Leeds and Edinburgh, 40 students to Durham) collaborates with a larger industrial base
      including new partners Bayer, IBM and Syngenta; CDT Renewable Energy NE
      Universities (ReNu led by Northumbria); Durham BBSRC DTP; Durham GCRF internal
      CDT and MosMed CDT (£7.5M, co-led with Newcastle, 35 PGs to Durham, 2019–28).
      We led (2014–18) three Marie Curie EU ITN networks: Molesco (£4.5M, 14 partners),
      MICSED (£1.4M, P&G strategic partner) and Fluor21 (£3M, 11 partners).
     Future focus 2014–2020: We responded rapidly to staff changes and new funding
      opportunities. Research in nano-carbon chemistry led to the flotation of Applied
      Graphene Materials (AGM) plc (ICS 1) and the ERDF funded COAST project (£4.5M,
      £810K to Durham) which provided labspace to handle nanomaterials (£580K DU
      investment) and interface with 19 SME industrial partners. The Bioactive RG targeted
      neglected tropical diseases leading to a GCRF-funded Network (£8M, 14 partners in
      South Asia, South America) and led the EU Horizon2020 Virus-X consortium (£7M,
      2016–20). Sustainable chemistry research with Sasol and Saudi Aramco and
      fluorination methodology with Sanofi led to exploitable IPR.
     Internationalisation: We have a diverse approach to developing international
      partnerships. We maintain close international links with our 8 strategically-focused
      Erasmus partners such as FU Berlin, JMH Wurzburg, CU Leuven (39 students research
      placements 2015–present; 27 hosted). Our three Durham-led EU ITN networks and
      GCRF NTD network and many best-with-best individual collaborations with academia
      and industry further expanded our international reach. For example, strength in sensing
      at the Bioactive/Functional Molecules RG boundary led to collaborations between Pal



6
    and Tour (Rice, USA) and the POA-RG hosted the prestigious European Symposium
    on Organic Reactivity (ESOR 2018) conference.
   Infrastructure and equipment: We maintained our research analytical equipment
    portfolio with investment of £1.6M from DU over the period (Section 3).


Investment in people and infrastructure (2020 onwards): Plans include:
   Equipment and building: The University has committed funding for a £15M investment
    programme over 5 years involving refurbishment of research and teaching space and
    general infrastructure renewal (see Section 3). A new Chemistry building is at the
    scoping stage for implementation in phase three of the 2017–2027 University strategy
    with plans to allow a 2030 build start date.
   Staff appointments: We plan a relatively stable staffing profile for 2020–2027, and four
    Cat. A staff have discussed their retirement plans over the next five years with the
    Department. We are currently advertising externally for a new Head of Department and
    for two Grade 10 Professor appointments, whose research has a particular emphasis
    on synthesis to strengthen our activities in our Functional Materials, Soft Matter and/or
    Biological Chemistry research groupings.


Impact – strategy, context and implementation: Our strategic approach to impact has
evolved over decades of working closely with many stakeholders. Our research outputs
affect all six main impact areas: economic (e.g. creating and hosting businesses, licensing
IPR, transferring research to industry), environmental (energy-reducing, cleaner
processes), healthcare (drug syntheses, medical devices), societal (outreach activities,
historic manuscript analysis), policy (drug-regulatory changes) and professional services
(expert witness consultancy, affirming and changing company strategy and operations).
The Durham-P&G team (ICS 3) were awarded the RSC's 2015 "Teamwork in Innovation"
award for "multidisciplinary, collaborative and high-impact research leading to product
innovation".




                        Figure 2: Impact strategy and processes

Our underlying strategy (Figure 2) for developing impact is based on four key enabling
functions: information, collaboration, acceleration and recognition and activities are run
through the well-established processes 1–10 shown in Figure 2, managed by the HoD,
DoR and Director of Impact. Examples of each process include:


7
1. Impact training: We have regular (~3 annual) Departmental briefings on areas such as
   entrepreneurship, InnovateUK funding and outreach via awayday/training sessions
   (e.g. Industry-Academia linking schemes; outreach activities; Responsible Research
   and Innovation training for PIs).
2. Industrial advisory boards: Several RGs have industrial advisory boards to counsel on
   research. For example, the Centre for Sustainable Chemical Processes' board has 12
   industrial members and meets annually. Our ERDF COAST funding (£4.5M, see
   above) has allowed interaction with 63 SMEs (including partner CPI interactions).
3. University Research & Innovation Services (RIS) support: RIS provides support for
   developing impact particularly in IPR processes including filing, licensing, registration
   and protection, spin-out company registration, business plan formulation and venture
   capital applications. DU holds a portfolio of 20 patents arising from Chemistry research
   in areas such as liquid movement, nanoparticle switching, peptide science and devices
   for breath analysis. This portfolio enabled 4 new company spin-outs within period
   (LightOx, Pepmotec, Nevragenics, PlasTech).
4. Strategic partners: We continue to build our strong partnership with Procter and
   Gamble (P&G, ICS 3). Research funding since the beginning of this collaboration
   includes the Regional Growth Fund project on surface modification (£1.4M), EU-funded
   ITN industrial doctorate programme MICSED (2014–2018, £1M) and EPSRC/Industry
   funded Molecular Migration (£2M). The overall partnership has won the P&G Global
   Partnership award, the 2015 RSC Teamwork Award, been cited in US Congress and
   described in letters from P&G’s Global Vice President to 10 Downing Street. Our
   relationship means we can move quickly to co-support new interdisciplinary research
   opportunities with the company.
5. Collaborations and placements: We have built a large network of industrial partners
   involved in collaborative research through interactions at many levels. Annually, we
   place ca. 20 4th year MChem students into industry. Industrial chemists present
   seminars at our fortnightly synthetic seminar series. We host researchers from industry
   in the ICRF facility and the industrially-linked SOFI CDTs recruited 41 PhD students
   who spent significant time with their collaborating industrial partner. Our industrial
   collaborative research portfolio is 17% of our total research income (£36.6M). 28 PhD
   students have been part or fully funded by industrial partners and Innovate UK.
6. Consultancy/analytical services: Departmental expertise and infrastructure has
   provided impact to external organisations. 18 staff have individual consultancy
   contracts with 26 global companies. Our analytical services provide data and
   interpretation to many organisations (typically £100K income pa): solution state NMR
   has provided spectra and analysis for 16 companies; solid state NMR has supported
   12 Universities and 58 companies (income £408K in period); DU spin-out OlexSys
   provides software for many X-ray crystallography analyses performed world-wide.
7. Impact acceleration funding: We use various support mechanisms to translate research
   ideas (TRL 1–3) to prototype and business cases (TRL 4–6). N8 funding with Thomas
   Swan enabled IPR that was subsequently developed to the manufacturing scale.
   EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) funding enabled ten projects (£340K plus
   £180K in-kind contributions) including new antimicrobial applications (Kataky/Coleman,
   CPI, Smith + Nephew) and custom lipid synthesis (Sanderson, HighForceResearch).
   The iCURE and Northern Accelerator programmes funded business case development
   and a business manager for spin-out Pepmotec. The University has secured two
   tranches of MRC Confidence in Concept funding (led by Cobb, £600K) for 4 PDRAs in
   Chemistry to develop new IPR (Sanderson, screening technology for cell membranes)
   and prototype devices (Carty/Wrede, breath acetone sensor device).
8. Hosting start-ups: The Department provides space and infrastructure access to spin-
   out companies in their early years (e.g., LightOx, RAR-M, AGM, OlexSys, PB


8
    Spectroscopy, Plastech and Pepmotec). Beyond the start-up phase, businesses can
    relocate to incubator space at University-partner Netpark (Reinnervate/Reprocell) or
    the nearby Wilton Centre, a 75-acre science park (AGM).
9. Outreach, media and public engagement: Our outreach team contributes to annual
   events such as School Science Festival, (3 days, 600 Year 9/10 pupils), NESIP (6th
   form research project week, 30 students and 5 teachers), Sutton Trust summer school
   (4 days, 40 Y12 students), Celebrate Science festival (3 days, 7000 visitors) and many
   smaller scale school visits and public lectures. Media appearances are listed in Section
   4.
10. Reward: Impact activities are encouraged and recognised in promotion procedures,
    and discussed during annual staff reviews by DPPC. Staff benefit from a share of any
    licensing fees arising from IPR and maintain equity in spin-out companies. Coleman
    (AGM) and Whiting (LightOx/RAR-M) received teaching relief funded by the companies
    involved to drive growth in the crucial venture capital funding phase.


Impact strategy relationship to case studies: our established mechanisms to support
impact are apparent in the development of our case studies:
ICS 1, Graphene: Research was patented and a business case developed with RIS support
(Impact process and pathway 3, Figure 2) for the establishment of Durham Graphene
Science hosted within the Department (8). Following VC funding, the renamed Applied
Graphene Materials, was listed on the AIM stock market with support from staff
secondment (10) providing scientific advice (6) and RIS (3). Media coverage appeared in
the Sunday Times and Financial Times (9).
ICS 2, Structural Science: collaborative research (5) led to cryogen cooler manufacture
and a spin-out company developed with RIS (3) is hosted within the Department (8). New
crystallisation techniques were licenced via RIS (3).
ICS 3, Procter and Gamble: following RIS and Department information events (1) a
University level strategic partnership (4) was developed. Many collaborations and
placements (5) led to technology adoption in-house by P&G. Media coverage (9) included
statements to US Governors and the UK Prime Minister’s office.
ICS 4, LightOx: collaborative research between Whiting, Pohl and Ambler/Biosciences led
to IPR filed by RIS (3). Seedcorn, IAA and Confidence in Concept funding (7) helped
develop the science business case and formation of LightOx, initially hosted within the
Department (8) and then externally. Staff buy-out for Whiting (10) gave time for developing
the business in the early stages when raising VC funding.


Supporting interdisciplinary research: Our research structure (Figure 1) was specifically
designed to promote interdisciplinary research. We have strong interdepartmental
research collaborations with colleagues in Biosciences, Physics, Engineering,
Mathematics and Earth Sciences. Much of this activity is inspired and enabled by our
research Centres and Institutes (Figure 1), several managed by Departmental staff (e.g.
Cobb and Pohl Direct and co-direct the Biophysical Sciences Institute; Johnson and I
Evans are on the Energy Institute board). The integration of 7 groups from Biosciences in
Chemistry (each of which shares office space with a Chemistry group) helps foster
collaborations. Three staff are 50% appointments with other Departments (Carty, Hutson
with Physics; Pohl with Biosciences). Our Natural Sciences undergraduate degree
programme encourages collaborations to develop from the 4th year research project stage;
typically 15 students per year co-supervised by Chemistry and Biosciences/Physics staff



9
members, enabling new research activities funded by the Faculty MChem/MSc
programmes.
Chemistry staff are also involved in inter-faculty research. Beeby and I Evans are part of
multidisciplinary collaborative projects on cultural heritage involving high-profile artefacts
from UNESCO World Heritage Sites. Expertise in analytical methods helps elucidate
provenance and production methods influencing conservation techniques. Beeby's
extensive work on manuscript imaging described in ICS 4. CoFUND/EU funding has
brought four Institute for Advanced Study Fellows to the Department. Vogt, for example,
worked jointly between Chemistry and History, lecturing on advanced catalyst
characterisation, Greek philosophy and the development of models in the physical
sciences during his fellowship.


Open research environment: Staff have embraced the open research environment with
ca. 95% of our 1413 outputs (2014-2020) outputs fulfilling REF and UKRI OA policy
requirements. Publications submitted by international collaborators are the only
exceptions. Accepted manuscripts are all deposited on Durham Research Online (DRO)
following publisher guidelines within one month of acceptance and research data is
deposited within an open access DRO database (a new 5.6PB data storage system for
experimental results has just been commissioned). We have made full use of RSC Gold
standard open access voucher systems managed by library staff (168 APCs for Gold OA
including 68 RSC Gold 4 Gold vouchers) over the REF period. We regularly interact with
library staff to incorporate Open Research ideas into the Department (e.g. PlanS). Staff
leadership activity in this area includes Howard’s role on the Royal Society Open Science
committee and Baxendale’s role on the Beilstein scientific advisory board. The RS provide
national advice on this topic and Beilstein offers platinum open access for all publications
and associated data.


Culture of research integrity: The Department performs its research activities with strict
adherence to the University’s Ethics Policy. Reference to ethical guidelines published by
UKRI or Wellcome are made when required.
 Ethical review of all research projects requiring human or animal subjects, whether
  within the University or with collaborating institutes, is required before research begins
  and is managed by our Ethics representatives (Pal, Mahon and a lay member from the
  local community). A report covering projects that required ethical review is tabled at
  BoSiC and DU Science Faculty Board each October.
 All research collaborations are performed under agreements developed with Legal
  Services covering legal obligations, financial management, IPR, liability, material
  transfer, data management, insurance, negligence and termination clauses.
 Regular training is given to all staff in: Data protection laws (GDPR) for both the UK and
  EU, avoiding unconscious bias, diversity and inclusivity, and collegiate research
  practices.
 Research ethics is included in Departmental and CDT postgraduate training.


COVID-19 Impact: COVID-19 has had significant impact on Departmental research in
2020. We undertook a number of measures to keep staff and researchers engaged and
supported during initial lockdown. Through significant efforts from our technical team, we
were able to restart lab-based research from late June, with wider access from September.
We have an electronic booking system to enable lab access and contact tracing, have
established group- and research-zone bubbles and have implemented procedures for safe

10
access to analytical facilities and other infrastructure. COVID has not changed our long-
term research strategy, just delayed implementation.


Section 2. People
Current staff: our 46 returned research/impact staff (Cat. A) are listed earlier in Table 1
according to their primary Research Grouping.
Staffing recruitment strategy: Our staffing strategy is to continue to develop areas of
research strength following DU EDI/Athena Swan principles whilst maintaining an
appropriate breadth of chemical knowledge to deliver a world-class, broadly-based,
research-led UG programme. Overall, our REF2021 Cat. A return cohort is four more than
REF2014 and includes 5 Fellowship holders on fixed-term contracts. Six of our returned
staff are ECRs.
    Leavers: Seven members of staff (Cat. A) relocated in the REF period: Cameron to
     Monash (Australia) and Prassides to Osaka (Japan), Engelskirchen to a career in
     patent law in her native Germany, Hess to TUM Munich, Moseley to Teesside and
     Kenwright and Khosravi to retirement.
    Appointments: Seven staff have been appointed at the Assistant Professor level within
     the period (replacing the 2 full, 2 associate and 3 assistant Profs listed above). This
     followed our policy of non-biased appointment of the best candidates available within
     our broad research areas and growing their careers within the Department: Walton
     (catalysis), Taylor (catalysis), Johnston (battery technology), McGonigal
     (supramolecular), Kitching (organic methodology), Mahon (chemical biology/polymer
     synthesis), Curchod (theory) and Pal (microscopy). Each appointment strengthens a
     Research Grouping. Each new appointee has rapidly established their research groups
     and attracted funding (first grant awards to Walton, McGonigal; Taylor, EPSRC
     Industrial Fellowship; Curchod, ERC).
    Fellowships: we have hosted URF (Kitching, Pal), EPSRC (Degiacomi: theory), ERC
     (Curchod: theory), 1851 (Avestro: synthesis), Newton (Auckett: materials; Das: surface
     science; Wu: synthesis), CoFund (Porta: chemical biology), GCRF-funded (Kadri,
     Karunaukaran: biochemistry) and BBSRC (Mackenzie) fellows within the REF period
     who participate in RG activities (Table 1). All potential fellowship candidates are
     reviewed by MAB for scientific quality and strategic fit. A mentor is assigned to help
     them develop the strongest possible research application. Most fellows are supported
     within the laboratories of established PIs and are allocated 4th year MChem students
     to support their research. Pal & Kitching were appointed to permanent positions in
     Chemistry, Avestro to Chemistry at York and Degiacomi to Durham Physics following
     open advertisements exemplifying the career development opportunities we provide.


Staff development strategy: We have a strong commitment to support staff at all levels
following our EDI/Athena Swan plans including:
    Mentorship: Mentorship is provided at all career stages following the University
     "Building a Mentorship Culture" programme, and explicitly recognised in promotion
     processes.
    Training: We work with the Durham Centre for Academic Development (DCAD) to
     support all researchers in the Department. Bespoke courses delivered through their
     "Researcher Development Programme" are used to train staff in best research practice,
     ethics and to ensure adherence to the implemented Concordat to Support the Career
     Development of Researchers.


11
    Probation, appraisal and promotion: We follow University DPPC processes and fifteen
     staff (10 M, 5 F) have been promoted within the first 3 years of this new scheme.
     Academic staff and independent fellows develop Personal Research Plans (PRPs)
     annually with a mentor to discuss research goals and ambitions/opportunities for the
     future.
    Research leave: All staff are encouraged to take 2 or 3 terms of contiguous research
     leave to enable sufficient time to concentrate on stated key research objectives such
     as skills development, publications, impact development and grant capture.
     Applications for research leave are assessed by ResCom to ensure 6–9 staff take
     research leave each academic year.
    Technical staff: We have supported staff to take part-time degrees and the University
     follows the Technicians Commitment. Chemistry technical achievements have been
     highlighted and celebrated at University-wide events.


Supporting ECRs and PDRA: The management team and appointed mentors help new
staff by:
    Induction: All staff receive Departmental introductions and attend a University-wide
     induction day which introduces the University career progression processes and has a
     training session on tackling unconscious bias.
    ECR training: ECRs engage in training programmes within Chemistry (library
     resources, IT, HSE, financial processes) and University-wide (first aid, grant writing
     workshops, leading research programmes). We support ECRs in completion of the PG
     Certificate in Learning and Teaching in HE, managing research projects, building
     research funding portfolios and developing research group culture.
    Post-doctoral researchers: We have hosted 60 PDRA researchers over the REF period
     and recognise the vital contribution they make to our research output. Progress in
     research and wider career advice is provided and developed in annual DPPC review.
     Mentorship in developing CVs, fellowship applications and career progression is
     managed by the supervisor and independent mentors appointed at the start of the
     PDRA contract. Many PDRAs contribute to UG teaching provision, leading tutorial and
     workshop classes and all PDRAs are able to access University-wide transferable skills
     training courses. The PDRA community is supported by a Departmental PDRA Forum
     (social and career-advice events) and a University-wide forum and a PDRA
     representative is a member of BOSIC to enhance cohort integration.


Facilitating collaborations with industry: we operate a variety of procedures to stimulate
and facilitate staff exchanges with industry which often lead to research or impact
generation:
    Research collaboration with industry: The Department has a well-established track
     record of collaborating with industry. Over the REF period 57 PhD studentships have
     been fully or part funded by international industries (including GSK, Johnson Matthey,
     Murata, P&G, Syngenta, AstraZeneca, Xaar, FFEI, Lynx, Life Arc, High Force
     Research, Inca Digital Printers, Merck, Unilever, Bristol Myers Squibb, Croda, Akzo
     Nobel, Sun Chemical, Danone Nutricia, Nestlé, Flotek, Sinopec, Screen, Chiesi,
     Aptuit). 114 of our publications (8%) list an industrial collaborator as a co-author.
    Secondments: The Department has hosted researchers from several companies (e.g.
     Sinopec, Johnson Matthey, Thomas Swan, Lomox) for periods of between 1-12 months
     to provide access to specialist expertise and skill bases. Staff secondments to industry
     include Coleman to AGM and Whiting to LightOx.


12
    Industry/Entrepreneur Fellowships: Taylor, recruited to a lectureship from BP, holds an
     EPSRC Industrial Manufacturing Fellowship. David King, following a long and
     successful career in the chemical industry, is employed part-time within Chemistry as
     a Royal Society Entrepreneur in Residence to develop entrepreneurship and industrial
     links across research and undergraduate portfolios.


Recognition and reward: The principal methods of rewarding all staff for research and
impact is by the DPPC promotion process . Exceptional Contribution points or Merit Awards
are used for different staff grades. Staff receive a 10% return of net overheads raised on
external research grants as unrestricted research group funding to stimulate new activities.
Departmental returns are spent on PG funding and supporting projects. Royalties and
license fees arising from DU IPR are shared between the inventors and DU.


Research students: The research interests and collaborative nature of the Department
are such that individual research groups are small-to-medium in size; the largest group in
the Department has typically been ca.10 members, though our CDTs involve larger
cohorts. Despite external funding challenges, our PhD student cohorts over the REF period
(Table 3) remain around 33 pa normally on 39-month PhD tuition programmes. We
maintain a reasonable PG gender balance (typically ~43% female).

     Table 3: PhD student         2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
                                                                     Totals
     cohorts                      /14  /15  /16  /17 /18 /19    /20

     PhD Students starting        41    32     34     31    24     34     35    231
     PhD completions (REF4a) 21.1 23.5 27.6           39.6 37.2 30.5 23.0 202.5

    PG recruitment: GSC oversees on-line applications, site visits, interviews and offers.
     We recruit globally via the DU website, personal, national and international contacts,
     findaphd.ac.uk and related portals, the chemical press and the EU study portal
     (CORDIS).
    PG funding sources: Our supervision, review and feedback mechanisms over the REF
     period have allowed 231 PhD students to start their studies funded from a variety of
     sources (Durham funded 69; CDTs 40; industry 48; others inc. EDRF/EU/GCRF/self-
     funded 74).
    PG support mechanisms: GSC is responsible for representing and communicating
     training, research, EDI and pastoral matters important to PGs; disputes are overseen
     and managed by the GSC Chair with support from University services including Legal,
     Disability Support and the International Office. Each PhD student is assigned a
     supervisory team comprising of a principal and secondary supervisor who monitor
     progress and advise on research aims, experiment design and results interpretation on
     a daily basis. Regular research group meetings and quarterly reports help maintain
     focus on research objectives, identify problems and solutions while enhancing
     communication skills. Our PhD cohort has a representative on BOSIC, GSC, EDI and
     Safety Committees, detailed in Table 2.
    Scientific and skills development: Since 2009, our graduate training programme has
     provided a flexible model for cohort-based training which emphasises the importance
     of continued in-depth learning throughout the PhD programme. Students undertake a
     training skills analysis using PebblePad. A portfolio of lecture modules allows PhD
     students and supervisors to create a tailor-made training package by selecting from a
     menu of ca. 40 courses, both internal and external, ranging from traditional lecture

13
     modules to small group tutorials and guided reading. Seminars, research colloquia and
     our Annual PhD Gala Symposium, where graduating students present their research
     to the Department and penultimate year students engage in poster presentations,
     supplemented by activities organised by the University Research Institutes (BSI,
     Energy, IAS), provide communication skill enhancement. Progress is monitored by DU
     GradSchool via formal reports (after 8 and 20 months of full-time research) and student-
     led blogs of project meetings. EDI considerations are integrated into postgraduate
     training.
    Transferable skill development: We develop novel PhD training mechanisms to build
     strong interdisciplinary graduate-student cohorts which are embedded in Durham’s
     Doctoral Training Centre strategy. Our CDTs (SoFI, MosMed, GCRF, ReNu, Energy)
     provide training in enterprise, communication, entrepreneurship and project
     management boosting employability. All modules are available to all Departmental PhD
     students. University level Researcher Development Programmes (online modules
     developed with Epigeum) are available for transferable skills training. The PG Events
     Committee were awarded an RSC Inclusion and Diversity Grant (2016) to fund a series
     of informal discussions on entering academia, research and career development and
     CV preparation.
    PG development of impact: PGs are encouraged to develop impact/entrepreneurial
     ideas even at this early stage of their career. A challenge exercise as part of the SOFI
     CDT mini-MBA module led to three PG students developing DU spin-out Plastech
     Innovation, which processes plastic waste into aggregate for concrete reducing
     incineration and landfill costs. Plastech was recognised by the Shell LiveWIRE April
     Smarter Future Award and by the CBI as one of the "20 companies to watch in 2020"
     within the NE.


Student and PDRA experience: An indication of the success of our PhD training is given
by the career destination and achievements of our alumni from the REF period:
    We promote and encourage PhD travel, research exchanges and attendance at
     international training schools. 58 of our PhD students spent 1–3 month placements in
     the laboratories of their industrial sponsors. Academic collaborations allowed 12 PhD
     students to study in international institutions, including Harvard, California, Rennes,
     Ropar, Kyushu, Dresden, Tarragona and Rio de Janeiro. All PGs are supported
     financially to attend at least one international conference.
    Our PhD students are in high demand after completing their studies. Analysis of those
     graduating in period shows that all seeking employment were successful. Of known
     first-destinations, 49% continued research in academia as PDRAs, 6% entered
     secondary school teaching positions, 38% entered the chemical industry while 7%
     followed other careers.
    During the REF period, 18 of our PhDs/PDRAs took up academic positions world-wide
     within 3 years of completing their studies at Durham including posts in Vienna, Angers,
     Kent, Loughborough, Dublin, Victoria, Egypt, Malaysia, Finland, Iceland, Thailand,
     Northumbria, Newcastle and China.


Equality and diversity: The EDI Committee forms a core part of our management
activities. Within the REF period EDI considerations have led to changes in Departmental
activities: all meetings and seminars are held 9.30–16.00; working-from-home was
encouraged pre-Covid; teaching timetabling takes into account care responsibilities; all
search, interview and appointment committees follow EDI principles; our workload model
balances teaching/admin load; all staff have completed workshops run by HR professionals
on Equality and Diversity, Collegiate Working and Unconscious Bias; appointments are

14
made on an equal opportunity basis. The Department was awarded Athena Swan bronze
status (2017) and is committed to apply for silver in 2021.
    Staff profile: We have eleven female members on our academic and teaching team and
     four BAME staff returned as Cat. A. Our 2019 undergraduate intake was 40% female
     and postgraduate 43%. Our staff profile includes individuals of different gender,
     ethnicity, with declared disabilities and with significant caring commitments, all of whom
     are recognised for their contributions to the Department. Our staff (both fixed-term and
     permanent) come from countries including Belgium, Germany, Spain, Hungary, India,
     Ireland, Russia, Serbia, Sweden and the UK. Our 2019 postgraduate population intake
     came from eight countries. We work with individual staff members to accommodate
     requests for part-time working to allow caring and other activities. Four of our category
     A returned staff work part-time.
    Career pathways for fixed-term staff: Fixed-term staff (Fellows, PDRAs) are assigned
     mentors to provide advice on career development and job applications. Fellowship
     holders are encouraged to apply for non-fixed term positions in open competition within
     the Department if a suitable post becomes available. This follows our policy of
     appointing the best candidate following a global recruitment process. Retention cases
     for outstanding fellowship holders are made to the Faculty.
    Staff support: The Department offers staff returning to work a reduced workload (50%)
     and flexible working hours. Research leave is offered after parental leave, and we have
     space and facilities in the Department for breastfeeding. University policy provides
     funding to cover care costs/responsibilities when travelling on business.
    Staff and PGR well-being: Informal contact, the mentor system and ADR process act
     as early warning signals for problems with staff well-being. Occupational Health (OH)
     within the University is contacted and confidential courses of action are taken after
     discussions with the staff member affected and line manager. Five staff have
     completed mental health ‘first aid’ training in conjunction with OH office. Staff and PGs
     are encouraged to report instances of ill-health, bullying or mental health issues first to
     their line manager/supervisor and then to HR/DGS. An action plan involving
     appropriate University support services is initiated. Leave of absence from the
     Department is supported by extension of the tuition period.
    Role models: We celebrate the success of all individuals to provide role models for
     ECRs and students. We include a diverse range of speakers from academic and
     industrial backgrounds in our seminar series and flagship "Durham Lectures"
     programme; two of the last five annual lecturers have been female.
    EDI for REF: The submission was managed by the HoD, DoR and DoI with support
     from Research Committee – a team of ten including two female staff across
     Associate/Full Professor levels, and followed the procedures articulated in the
     institutional REF Code of Practice. Two female and one BAME staff member (from a
     team of eight) graded outputs as part of our REF papers selection process and one
     female of four external readers helped calibrate our own assessments. Outputs were
     selected from all RGs (Cat A and B staff) focusing on scientific excellence and
     originality to give an accurate representation of the Department’s research strengths.


Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
Research income: Our aim has been to diversify income streams to include industry,
InnovateUK, GCRF and EU funding programmes, self-funded overseas students with
scholarships, and to target larger collaborative grants. Research income over the period
totals £37.4M (REF4b) and a comparison with REF2014 data (Table 4) shows the



15
continuation of a broad-based research funding portfolio with a particular increase in EU
funding over the period.

 Table 4. Funding     REF 2014 (£M)      REF2014 (%)     REF2020 (£M)     REF2020 (%)
 RCUK/UKRI            20.3               69              21.1             56
 Industry             3.4                12              6.2              16
 EU                   3.7                13              8.9              24
 Others               1.8                6               1.2              4
 Total                29.2               100             37.4             100


     EDI support for acquiring research funding: All staff are encouraged to lead major,
      multi-PI grant applications (e.g. O’Donoghue led a CDT bid) and this is monitored by
      ResCom and EDI committees. All staff receive individual advice, internal peer review
      and support from Research Office staff. All staff have equal access to resources and
      free-at-point-of-access analytical facilities.
     Large research consortia and major grant awards (>£1m): Examples of Durham-led
      major multi-partner collaborative grants are shown in Table 5.
    Table 5      Funding               Title and Collaborators

    Cobb,        EU ITN, £3.3M         Fluor21: Organofluorine Chemistry
    Sandford     (2014–18)             7 academic and 4 industrial partners in EU
    Bryce        EU ITN, £4.5M         MOLESCO: Molecular Scale Electronics
                 (2014–18)             10 academic and 9 industrial partners in EU
    J Evans      EU ITN, £1M           MICSED: Molecular Interactions in Complex
                 (2014–18)             Systems
                                       P&G Belgium and Germany innovation centres
    Bain         EPSRC, £2.3M          Evaporative drying of droplets and the formation of
                 (2016–20)             microstructured and functional particles and films
                                       DU Engineering, Bristol, 14 industrial partners
    Cobb, Steel, GCRF, £8M             A Global Network for Neglected Tropical Diseases
    Pohl,        (2017–21)             14 partners in Asia, South America and York, UK
    Sandford
    Pohl         Horizon2020, £7M      Virus-X: Viral Metagenomics for Innovation value
                 (2016–20)             15 participants from 8 EU countries
    Hutson       EPSRC, £6.7M          QSUM: Quantum Science with Ultracold Molecules
                 (2017–22)             DU Physics, Imperial London, Oxford
    Bain,        EPSRC, £5.4M          CDT: Soft Matter for Formulation and Industrial
    Hutchings    (2019–28)             Innovation (SOFI2)
                                       Edinburgh, Leeds and >25 industry partners
    Pohl, Cobb   EPSRC, £7.5M          CDT: Molecular Sciences for Medicine
                 (2019–28)             Newcastle, Medical School
    Wilson       EPSRC+Industry,       Molecular Migration
    Thompson     £2M (2017–21)         Durham, Sheffield, B'ham, P&G, Akzo, Modelez
    Coleman      ERDF, £4.5M           COAST: Collaborative Outreach in Applied Surface
                 (2017–20)             Technologies
                                       CPI and 19 industrial partners




16
Infrastructure and facilities: The University has continued to invest in Chemistry
infrastructure (buildings and equipment) and technical support to support the needs of our
Research Groupings and PI groups. ResCom oversees investment of Departmental and
University research funds.
    Technical and support staff: Analytical services are free-at-point-of-access for all
     researchers; this is of particular importance in supporting ECRs. Our major Research
     Services (NMR, Mass Spectrometry, Crystallography and Separation Science) are
     managed and supported by 8.2 FTE staff. Other analytical services are supported by 3
     FTE additional technical staff. Services are given an annual operating budget by the
     Department. Other services operate as "Facilities" and are funded collaboratively by
     individual research groups/groupings. We have dedicated mechanical (2 FTE),
     glassblowing (2 FTE) and electronics (2 FTE) workshops. A further 7 FTE of our
     technical team provide support in purchasing, safety, waste-disposal and building
     management. Administrative/secretarial support for education and research is provided
     by a team of 7.2 FTE and we have 5 FTE teaching laboratory staff and 5.4 FTE lab
     attendants.
    External income: Analytical service staff (Category C) engage with external users to
     raise income and build links with industry. For example, the solid-state NMR service
     has provided analyses to 58 industrial customers raising £408K while solution state
     NMR spectra and analyses were supplied to 16 companies within the UK.
    Investment in estate: Through University support, £15M is allocated (2020–25) for
     teaching and research laboratory upgrades including heating/air handling infrastructure
     and IT cabling upgrades. £2M has been invested in new gas pipework throughout the
     Chemistry building; £1.8M in new fire alarm and protection systems.
    Faculty/Library/IT facilities: We have access to high-end electron microscopes
     operated as a DU Science Faculty facility and to excellent library facilities with a 2–4%
     annual increase on Chemistry resource between 2014 and 2019 to £283K (2019–20)
     for books, journals and other publications that are freely available to all staff. Estates
     and Facilities, financial management and IT support are provided by centralised
     resource.
    Specialist research infrastructure and facilities: In the REF period we have invested a
     further £2M in research equipment including solution state NMR (£400K), mass
     spectrometry (£120K), crystallography (£440K), microscopies (£365K), chemical
     analysis (£170K), thermal analysis (£200K), floating zone furnace (£440K) and
     separation science (£315K) supported by DU funding. This has allowed us to
     significantly enhance the capabilities our analytical equipment base (Table 6).
    Collaborative use of research infrastructure: We work with partners in the N8
     Universities to implement best-practice for infrastructure sharing. High Performance
     Computing facilities located at Leeds augment local facilities and members of the
     ResoN8 network of NMR facility managers were nominated for a Papin Prize in 2019.
     recognising sharing of equipment and training within N8 Universities.
    Major research facilities: 9 staff have accessed major research facilities (e.g. Diamond,
     ISIS, ILL) (total £ 4.2M in-kind, REF4c). For example, Thompson has utilised ISIS
     (£1.6M value) for projects in collaboration with P&G (Belgium and Germany), Akzo and
     Mondelez International Microstar as part of the Stability project investigating behaviour
     of lubricants under shear.




17
 Table 6: Equipment

                      Solution-State NMR      Agilent 700, 600, 500 MHz; Bruker 400 MHz (×3)
 Major Services

                      Mass Spectrometry       GCMS-QP2010; Autoflex II ToF/ToF; QToF Premier; LCT
                                              Premier XE; TQD; Xevo QToF; Synapt G2s HDMS
                      X-ray                   2 Bruker small-molecule single crystal diffractometers; X-ray
                      Crystallography         reflectometry; small angle X-ray scattering; Bruker Microstar
                                              rotating anode; Innovadyne nanolitre crystallisation robot
                      Separation Science      3 HPLCs (diode-array, UV-vis and RI detectors); Mass
                                              Directed AutoPurification System; GC-FID, GC-TCD; 2 ion
                                              chromatographs; Viscotek Trisec SEC (2)
                      Thermal Analysis        2 PE TGAs with Hiden evolved gas MS; PE simultaneous
 Other Services




                                              thermal analyser (STA); PE TGA/IR/GC-MS system
                      Probe Microscopy        2 Leica SP5 confocal microscopes; Bruker and AIST-NT
                                              scanning probe microscopes for: semi/non/contact,
                                              conductive, tuning fork and peak force AFM, LFM, advanced
                                              MFM, Kelvin probe, capacitance and EFM, STM, SNOM and
                                              3D scanning imaging; nanolithography/manipulation
                                              capabilities and tip enhanced Raman spectroscopy (TERS);
                                              fluid cell and hot stage microscopy
                      Solid State NMR         Bruker: 500 MHz, 400 MHz; Varian: 300 MHz; ultra-fast
                                              MAS
                      Ion Beam                NEC Pelletron accelerator: forward recoil scattering,
                      Accelerator             Rutherford & non-Rutherford backscattering, nuclear
                                              reaction analysis, PIXE
                      Materials               3 Bruker high and low T powder X-ray diffractometers; QD
                      Characterisation        SQUID magnetometer and PPMS (physical properties
                                              measurement system shared with Physics); XPS;
                                              environmental SEM; impedance rig; diffuse reflectance; IR
 Facilities/Other




                                              spectroscopy; Faculty-run transmission and scanning
                                              electron microscopes
                      Spectroscopy            Circular dichroism; CPL; spectro-electrochemistry; time-
                                              resolved luminescence IR and Raman microscopy; light
                                              scattering; multi-cuvette UV-vis spectrophotometry
                      Miscellaneous/Other Quartz crystal microbalance; elemental fluorine and gas
                                          handling facility; flow/process equipment including GCMS
                                          on-line analysis; high-pressure research laboratory; nano-
                                          materials laboratory; catalytic pyrolysis and test facility;
                                          protein production facility consisting of Harbiger Bioreactor,
                                          AktaPure FPLC, Biacore T100 surface plasmon resonance
                                          and Micocal ITC; floating furnace
                      High Performance        HPC is provided via Hamilton, the University's 4800-
                      Computing               processor core parallel supercomputer


Links between impact and infrastructure, facilities and expertise: Our infrastructure
and expertise directly enables research impact by a variety of methods.
                   Relation to case studies: ICS 1 Graphene relied upon Faculty SEM/TEM facilities; ICS
                    2 Structural Science utilises the extensive X-ray and powder diffraction facilities; ICS 3

18
     P&G utilises analytical facilities, surface characterisation, computational modelling
     infrastructure; and ICS 4 LightOx required spectroscopic characterisation of small
     molecule probes using NMR and Mass spectroscopy facilities.
    Consultancy and professional services: our expertise and infrastructure are used to
     engage with stakeholders via consultancies as detailed earlier. Four staff have
     contracts to provide expert witness advice for (confidential) legal matters.
    Training and staff secondment: Sterling Pharma Solutions and Thomas Swan have
     carried out consultative research projects to meet customer requirements using our
     industry-facing high pressure and fluorine labs. Chemists from Sterling Pharmaceutical
     Solutions were seconded to DU to complete a contract for a Japanese pharmaceutical
     customer.
    Benefits in-kind: Our strategic partnership with P&G has led to the provision of
     equipment from the company into the Department to carry out collaborative research
     experiments and equipment developed at Durham has been purchased and adopted
     by P&G in-house (see ICS 3).


Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
Collaborative research lies at the core of many of our activities, and all our academic staff
make significant contributions to the chemical science and wider communities. Our outputs
are the result of strong collaborative research programmes: 60% of papers involve
international co-authors, 18% national, 19% institutional and 3% single authorship (SciVal).
Tables 7 & 8 summarises some key data (source: SciVal), and we highlight selected
activities below.

 Table 7: Collaborations                           Table 8: Leadership & Community

 Staff with collaborative publications   28/34/37 National/international awards 11/13
 Durham/national/international                    and named lectureships
 Staff collaborating with DU             12/8/8   Staff elected to Royal Society 4
 Biology/Physics/other subjects                   FRS
 Number of company interactions          >100     International advisory boards 18
 Publications in period                  1413      Keynote/plenary int’l lectures   >250
 Number of UK academic                   111       Editorial boards                 19
 collaborating authors
 Number of international coauthors       >1000     Staff as EPSRC College           18
                                                   members
 Number of international visitors        >250      Staff on RSC/IOP/etc.            15
                                                   committees


Collaborations: Areas which exemplify our collaborative research and build specifically
on our strategic aims (Section 1) of academic partnerships, interdisciplinarity and
internationalisation are:
  Other DU Departments: Highlight examples of interdisciplinary research within DU
   include: Hutson, Cornish (Physics) on ultracold molecules, EPSRC, £6.7M; Bryce, Fox,
   McGonigal, Monkman (Physics): High-Efficiency Phosphorescent OLEDs; Hodgson,
   Cann (Biosciences) concerning molecular events in the global carbon cycle, BBSRC
   £700K; Miller, Steed, Sutcliffe (Maths), Jackson (Cambridge) Knot theory in modern
   chemistry, Leverhulme, £1.7M.



19
  UK collaborations: 34 staff collaborated with colleagues in 38 UK University
   Departments to produce 258 publications. Notable examples include: Beaumont,
   Kyriakou (Aston) silver surface catalysts for energy applications partner in EU MSCA –
   BIKE ITN, £247K; Cooper, Cucinnota (Newcastle) on light-harvesting antennae;
   Hodgkinson, Brown (Warwick), Yates (Oxford), Ashbrook (St Andrews) Collaborative
   Computational Projects 1 & 2 on NMR Crystallography, EPSRC £495K; Johnston, Islam
   (Bath) on anti-perovskites; O’Donoghue, Smith (St Andrews) mechanistic studies of N-
   heterocyclic carbenes, EPSRC £1M; Parker, Kuprov (Southampton), McInnes and
   Chilton (Manchester) examining non-classical paramagnetic susceptibility in rare earth
   complexes, EPSRC, £1M; Sanderson, Beales and Connell (Leeds) integrated
   biophysics approach towards membrane-active anticancer therapies, EPSRC, £906K;
   Williams, Kozhevnikov (Northumbria) photophysical examination of materials, EPSRC
   £800K; Dyer, Greenwell (Geology), Theodorou (Harper Adams), Wells (York),
   Gallagher (Aberystwyth), Flynn (Swansea), McEvoy (Highlands and Islands) and
   Fraunhofer-Institut (UMSICHT, Germany) on methods for generation of energy from
   seaweed and other readily available biomass materials, EPSRC £1.6M. Steed, Day
   (Southampton) on supramolecular gel phase crystallisation strategies, EPSRC, £647K
  International collaborations: 37 staff collaborate with colleagues in 26 countries world-
   wide which has resulted in 849 joint publications (60% of publications). In addition to
   the EU and GCRF funded networks described above, other major funded international
   collaborations include: Badyal, Çelebi-Newton (Selçuk, Turkey) antibacterial
   nanocoating technologies for on-site water decontamination, RS+UK-Turkey Hub
   £550K; Baxendale, Jensen (MIT) on flow processes; Cobb, Wong (Hong Kong Baptist)
   on chemical biology; Curchod, Agostini (Paris-Sud) on the fundamental theory of
   coupled electron/nuclear dynamics in molecules; I Evans, McIntyre (ANSTO Sydney)
   co-supervision of PhD students; J Evans, Campbell (Brigham Young) Fullbright award
   on group theory, Pal, Tour (Rice, Texas) on molecular machines; Steel, Rossi-
   Bergmann (UFRJ Brazil) on patented antileishmanial chemotherapies; Steel on
   antileishmanial drug delivery with Nangia (Hyderbad), Ali (Kolkata), Sundar(BHU);
   Tozer, Levy (Tulane), De Proft (Brussels), Helgaker and Borgoo (Oslo) on DFT theory;
   Verlet via H2020 network; Walton, Verma (IIT Kanpur, India) on copper complexes
   as antibacterial resistance breakers; Wrede, Momose (Vancouver) on cold molecular
   collisions; Hutson, Julienne (Joint Quantum Institute, Maryland), Schreck (Amsterdam),
   Aldegunde (Salamanca) and Nägerl (Innsbruck) on computational chemistry.


Chemistry community contributions: Durham staff contribute to the national and
international chemistry community in many ways. Examples include:
    Publications: Durham publications (1413) are highly cited with over 22,000 citations in
     period.
    Editorships: 16 staff serve on 19 international journal editorial boards including
     Baxendale: Executive Editorial Board for Beilstein Institute Publishing; Steed: Co-
     Editor-in-Chief, Monographs in Supramolecular Chemistry, RSC; Editor, Crystal
     Growth and Design; Hutson and Verlet: Co-Editors of Int. Rev. Phys. Chem; Coleman:
     Editor FlatChem: Chemistry of 2D Materials; Hodgson: Guest Editor, Molecules;
     Curchod section editor Molecules; O’Donoghue: invited Editor for Org. Biomol. Chem.,
     Curr. Opin. Chem. Biol.; Hodgkinson: RSC Specialist Periodical Report in NMR.
    Publication review: Collectively staff referee publications for all the major RSC, ACS,
     Wiley and Elsevier journals and other publishing houses (Taylor and Francis, Beilstein);
     all staff review research proposals submitted to UKRI (EPSRC, BBSRC, STFC),
     Wellcome and Leverhulme, serve on the EPSRC/BBSRC colleges/committees and



20
     review research proposals for countries including Singapore, Canada, South Africa,
     Russia, Netherlands, Finland, Portugal, Cyprus, USA and Switzerland.
    National/international advisory boards: Many staff served on UK and international
     committees/advisory boards including Coleman: UK Govt group overseeing the
     National Measurement System, AMT/009 BSI committee, the UK national standards
     body, RSC CNN chair; O’Donoghue: Organic Chemistry Council of RSC Executive
     Committee, RSC Researcher Mobility Working Group; Bain: Harwell Research
     Complex, Chair of the Trustees of the RSC Pension Scheme; Dyer UK catalysis hub; I
     Evans: Scientific Council of Institut Laue Langevin, RSC Materials council; J Evans:
     Diamond Synchrotron Scientific Advisory Council, Oak Ridge National Laboratory
     (USA) advisory group; Parker: ‘Commissione’ for the Italian Government examining
     Chemistry Promotions in Italy, Chair, King’s College London Chemistry Scientific
     Advisory Board, Departmental Review for Nottingham and Hong Kong City University;
     Pohl: Chair of Programme Advisory Committee at MAXIV (Sweden) and review
     committee of ALBA (Spain) synchotron and Diamond MX working group; Sandford:
     Executive Committee ACS Fluorine Division, RSC Fluorine Group, Leicester Chemistry
     EAB; Steel: RSC Chemical Biology Division Coucil; Walton: RSC Research Fund and
     Dalton Division Council; Wilson: Chair, Physics Review Panel, Academy of Finland.
    Royal Society: our RS Fellows are very active within the RS committee panel structure:
     Badyal: Future Leaders African Independent Research (FLAIR) Fellowships, Theo
     Murphy Blue Skies Award, Science Industry and Translation Committee; Howard:
     Open Science, Awards & Medals, Wolfson Fellowships, Industry Fellowships, Grants
     Committee; Parker: SC3 (elects Chemistry FRS Fellows), Chair of Tier 1 VISA
     approvals, FLAIR Fellowships and International Newton Fellowship Panels.
    UKRI and international grant committees: 16 staff serve on national (UKRI) and
     international committees/advisory boards including I Evans: Member of the 10-person
     international panel advising UK Government on ~£1 billion investment in neutron
     science over the next two decades; Johnston: Science Board Supergen Energy
     SuperStore Research Hub; Johnston/Thompson ISIS Facility Access Panel; Parker:
     Flanders Research Council Panel, Senior Fellowship Panel, Institut Universitaire de
     France (IUF).
    Conference organisation: Many staff have served on national/international conference
     organising committees. Highlights include: Bain’s initiation of both the Telluride
     Workshop on Complexity in the Chemistry and Physics of Lipid Membranes (2016,
     2018, 2020) and Future Formulation I, II and III conference series;
     O’Donoghue/Hodgson’s Chair/Co-Chair roles on the Durham-hosted European
     Symposium on Organic Chemistry, 2017.
    Invited keynote/plenary lectures: All returned staff have presented research at
     international conferences and the Department makes funds available to help staff
     attend. In period, staff have given >250 invited keynote and plenary lectures at major
     conferences world-wide.




21
Recognition: Awards and Fellowships for contributions to the discipline include:

     Table 9       Fellowships, Prizes and Named lectureships

     Badyal        Fellow of the Royal Society, 2016; Tilden Prize and Medal, RSC,
                   2017; CRSI International Medal, Chemical Research Society of India,
                   2018; Innovation and Technology Enterprise Lecture, CSIR- Pune,
                   2018; Fellow of National Academy of Sciences, India 2019; 2018
                   "100 most significant breakthroughs from UK university" listing.
     Bain          Sir Eric Rideal Lecture and Prize, 2020
     Baxendale     Zasshi-kai Lectureship, Tokyo, 2015
     Beaumont      Leverhulme Fellowship, 2012–2017
     Curchod       ERC Early Career Fellowship 2018–23
     Coleman       Royal Society of Chemistry Derek Birchall Award 2017
     I Evans       Royal Society Leverhulme Senior Research Fellowship, 2019
     J Evans       Francis Lions Lecture, Sydney, 2015
     Howard        Dewar Lecture, London, 2016
     Hutson        Thomson Medal and Prize, Institute of Physics, 2016; R. B.
                   Woodward Lecture, Harvard, 2014; Larmor Lecture, Belfast, 2018;
                   Roger E. Miller Lecture, Waterloo, Canada, 2019
     Johnston      2019 NMRDG/BRSG (RSC/IOP) Prize for Excellent Contribution to
                   Magnetic Resonance by an Early Career Researcher
     McGonigal     Molecules Young Investigator Prize, 2018
     O’Donoghue    RSC Loschmidt Award for Physical Organic Chemistry 2014; Eli Lilly
                   Lecture, Trinity College Dublin, 2016; Loschmidt Plenary Lecture,
                   Syngenta, 2016
     Parker        EPSRC Recognising Inspiration in Science and Engineering Fellow,
                   2014; ERC Advanced Fellow 2011–16; Frontiers of Science Lecture,
                   Wayne State University, 2014; Kennedy Wong Visiting Professor
                   Hong Kong Baptist University
     Sandford      SCI Process Chemistry Award and Lecture, Cambridge, 2018; Irvine
                   Review Lecture, St Andrews, 2019
     Steed         Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award; L. F. Power Memorial
                   Lecture, James Cook University, Australia, 2019
     Taylor        EPSRC Manufacturing Fellowship
     Tozer         Fellow of the Learned Society of Wales (FLSW), 2017; JILA Visiting
                   Fellow, 2019
     Verlet        ERC Consolidator Fellowship, 2012–17
     Walton        RSC Inorganic Reaction Mechanisms Group Young Academic Award
                   2018


Wider contributions to the economy and society: examples of training, outreach and
developing the impact of our research included:
 Collaborative international PGR training: We have organised/co-organised international
  PhD+ level training schools in: Powder Diffraction and Rietveld refinement and single

22
     crystal diffraction methods (I Evans, J Evans, Howard) which have trained ~1000
     students from around the world; Physical Organic chemistry techniques (O’Donoghue,
     Hodgson) STINT programme Uppsala, Sweden (four annual meetings, 50 PhD
     students, PGR training £200K funding from Swedish Govt); CCP5 International
     Simulation Summer Schools, Durham 2019–21 (Miller). Bespoke training packages
     were delivered to a total of 30 students across the EU on molecular electronics (Bryce),
     organofluorine (Cobb, Sandford) and soft matter (Evans) chemistry within EU ITN
     programmes. Steel has trained 50 students from 8 countries in the global south via
     GCRF funding.
 Collaborative national PGR training: Our CDT programmes offer bespoke scientific and
  transferable skills training programmes in Soft Matter (SOFI 1 & 2) and Medicinal
  Chemistry (MosMed). 81 students were enrolled on the SOFI CDT programme in 5
  cohorts (28 graduated to date) and 12 students have started in the first year of the
  MosMed programme.
 Outreach and public awareness activities: Media appearances include Coleman: BBC
  Naked Scientist (2015); Howard: Radio 4 In our Time with Melvyn Bragg (2014, 2018,
  2019), Radio 4 Christmas with Philip Ball on ‘snowflakes’ (2018–19), recordings for the
  Science Museum on Crystallography; Fox: developing interanational signs of chemistry
  words for deaf students with Edinburgh and Prague University; Kitching: Royal Society
  Summer Science Exhibitor (2018), Last Retort, article for Chemistry World (2017), ACS
  Live Stream C&EN News (2017); Pal: Royal Society Public Engagement ambassador,
  Scientific adviser BBC Horizon; Parker: Serbian TV to highlight conference in Belgrade,
  (2016); Sandford: Radio 4 In Their Element: Fluorine; Beeby and Evans BBC1 Inside
  Out, (2020). Badyal served on the 2020 Davos World Biodiversity Forum panel on
  Biomimicry to tackle biodiversity loss and public health challenges.


Developing and continuing economic and societal impact: In addition to the current
impact case studies, we have many ongoing impact projects developing over the next REF
period in flow chemistry, fluorination technology, anti-microbial wound dressings,
phototherapeutics for cancer treatment, drugs for neurodegenerative diseases,
atmosphere detection units, water-harvesting and water-oil separation developed through
collaborations with industry, EU Networks and venture capital strategies.
Our impact is long term and case studies from REF2014 which are not eligible due to REF
time limits still have important impact. Synthesis of a key fluorinated heterocycle using
direct fluorination techniques by F2 Chemicals for Pfizer continues on the multi-tonne scale
for the manufacture of anti-fungal Voriconazole ($500M annual sales). The European
Medicines Agency banned the use of linear Gd contrast agents (e.g. Magnevist) for use in
clinical MRI (2017) following expert witness and research in lanthanide chemistry described
in REF2014. Super-repellent surfaces formed by plasma techniques continue to be
developed and marketed by P2i. Currently over 250 million devices including mobile
phones, hearing aids and clothing items have been treated by plasmachemical techniques
arising from a patent published in 1998.




23
