Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: Anglia Ruskin University (ARU)

 Unit of Assessment: 14 Geography and Environmental Studies
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview

 Anglia Ruskin University (ARU) has strategically invested into this unit, whose core strengths
 align with ARU’s priority research area of ‘Sustainability and Environment’ (Research &
 Innovation Strategy 2018-22). Building upon this, our unit, which sits within the Faculty of
 Science and Engineering, employs a research strategy tightly aligned to our interdisciplinary
 expertise. We generate new knowledge of how human societies influence the environment to
 inform national and international policy and develop tools to tackle global issues relating to
 biodiversity, climate change and conflict.

 Since REF2014, we have capitalised on University investment in staff and new buildings (a
 £45m Science Centre and a £600k Global Sustainability Institute (GSI) building) to grow our
 research capacity in ecology, environmental policy and management, and to expand our use of
 emerging research techniques to support the generation of knowledge. Our external income
 generation has tripled (from £10k/FTE to £30.5k/FTE per year) and we have diversified our
 external research funding sources, which now include six of the seven UK research councils
 (from none reported to REF2014), as well as European Union research funding sources (both
 individual and project), foundations, central government and business funding. Through strategic
 investment of QR funding, external funding and business partnerships, the number of PhD
 completions and postdoctoral researchers within the unit increased by 40% (10 to 14) and 150%
 (6 to 15) respectively.

 Structure

 The shape of the unit has evolved since REF2014. The GSI has doubled in size (five fixed-term
 staff were made permanent), and the former Animal and Environment Research Group, within
 the School of Life Sciences (LS), has been superseded (in 2017) by two new focused research
 groups: the Applied Ecology Research Group (AERG) and the Behavioural Ecology Research
 Group (BERG). The unit therefore now operates as three interlinked research clusters (Figure
 1), consisting of 28 academic staff (57% female), 22 of whom are in the submission (55%
 female). There has been no net change in the staff headcount submitted since 2014, although
 we have increased our submitted FTE by 18% (17.5 to 20.7 FTE).

 The Applied Ecology Research Group (AERG) is led by Green (female), who is internationally
 recognised for her research on the environmental impacts of plastic pollution and is a scientific
 advisor for the European Environment Bureau, Fauna and Flora International, DP World London
 Gateway (and associated businesses) (see ICS3 Plastics). Under Green’s leadership, AERG
 aims to generate new knowledge and approaches that inform initiatives to mitigate
 anthropogenic impacts on terrestrial, freshwater and marine biodiversity (Green, Brown, Hawes,
 Helden, Manco) and ecosystems services and processes (Boots, Green, Ings, Norfolk,
 Wheeler). AERG currently has 11 academic staff members (six male, five female), four of whom
 overlap with BERG, as well as one Postdoctoral Fellow, six PhD students, and four associated
 members (three within Faculty, one other at ARU).




                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




       Figure 1. How the research structure of the unit synergises to address societal
         challenges within ARU’s Sustainability and Environment research priority.

 The Behavioural Ecology Research Group (BERG) is led by Dunn (male) who has an
 international reputation for his research on primate communication. Under Dunn’s leadership,
 BERG’s primary aim is to provide intellectual leadership and set agendas in animal
 communication research (Dunn, Hinde, Wascher, Mowles) and the impacts of anthropogenic
 noise on animal behaviour (Dunn, Wascher, Mowles, Ings). BERG currently has 12 academic
 staff members (five male, seven female), four of whom overlap with AERG, as well as two
 Postdoctoral Fellows, eight PhD students, and nine associated members (five within Faculty,
 one other at ARU, three non-ARU).

 The Global Sustainability Institute (GSI), established in 2011, is led by A. Jones (male), who
 is a global leader in climate finance and interdisciplinary sustainability policy. It aims to conduct
 applied interdisciplinary social science research, act as an honest broker for policy and business
 practitioners, and use methodological pluralism, to support sustainability outcomes. Since 2014,
 the GSI has strategically focussed its recruitment around research on Global Risk and
 Resilience (Bharucha, Hafner, Natalini), and Consumption and Change (Foulds, Rohse,
 Royston). GSI currently has nine academic staff (three male, six female), 12 PhD students, three
 support staff, and 10 non-ARU visiting fellows.

 Reflecting on 2014-2021 Research Strategy Implementation

 We delivered against our REF2014 strategy:
   1) “To consolidate and increase momentum in the two current research areas: i) ecology
        and the conservation of biodiversity and ii) environmental monitoring, management and
        policy.”
   2) “To develop frontier research, particularly in the use of emerging techniques that support
        the acquisition of knowledge in the two fields of research identified above.”

 To achieve this, we have utilised our staffing strategy (section 2) to prioritise recruitment of
 academic staff with strong research profiles, aligned to our REF strategy and ARU’s priority
 research areas, whilst maintaining a healthy gender balance (55% female compared to 50% in

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2014). Targeted recruitment has allowed us to refocus our research clusters (three compared to
 two in REF2014) and promote cross-cluster collaboration to tackle current societal challenges
 related to Sustainability and Environment (Figure 1), e.g. growing our research on ecosystem
 services leading to a successful European Research Council individual grant. Further strategic
 appointments (Natalini, Pasqualino) linked to external research funding (RCUK, EU) have
 significantly increased our capability for using emerging techniques in biostatistical analysis
 through systems dynamics and agent-based modelling. To increase research momentum, we
 have also supported the research of ECRs through funded sabbaticals, research leave, writing
 retreats and internal funding for Research Assistants – e.g. Manco, whose research utilises
 cutting-edge spatial ecology techniques to study foraging behaviour of penguins in collaboration
 with the British Antarctic Survey (BAS). Our existing capacity for network analysis techniques
 (Ings) was expanded through appointments of Norfolk (plant-pollinator networks), Wascher
 (social networks) and Wheeler (social networks). Ecological research (AERG) has also
 benefitted from a bespoke molecular ecology laboratory within the new £45M Science Centre, to
 deliver against the above research areas while using the latest molecular techniques.

 Beyond 2021: Future strategic aims and goals

 The interdisciplinary work of this unit will connect to three current ARU priority research areas,
 as per its 2018-2022 Research & Innovation Strategy: predominantly to ‘Sustainability and
 Environment’, but also to ‘Built Environment and Future Cities’ and ‘Social Inclusion and
 Marginalised Communities.’ In building upon these ARU priority research areas, the aim of this
 unit is to strategically adapt our research to address evolving ‘societal challenges’
 (Figure 1) in order to influence cutting-edge international research agendas for
 environment and sustainability. We have identified five goals underpinning this overarching
 aim.

 1. Grow and consolidate around emerging societal challenges
 We will focus our investment on research relating to anthropogenic impacts on biodiversity,
 ecosystem governance, processes and services, animal communication and welfare issues
 associated with increasing anthropogenic noise, resilience, social practice, sustainable
 behaviours, energy transitions, food and landscape systems, and future cities. This will be
 enabled by and relate to the following objectives:
     • Enhance research leadership through increasing the proportion of professorial staff in the
        unit; from one to five, over the next five years)
     • Increase the diversity of staff within the unit
     • Maximise impact from our research (see impact section below)
     • Increase the size and quality of our PhD and postdoctoral community
     • Ensure all research active staff have access to dedicated funding and time allocation.

 2. Leverage ARU’s Sustainability Strategy
 Because of its commitment to this area, the University has launched a new Sustainability
 Strategy (2020-2026). As part of this Strategy, the newly formed Sustainable Development
 Working Group (chaired by Bharucha) will continue to coordinate strategic investment from the
 University into growth areas, sandpits and network building. For example, in 2020/21, the unit
 competitively secured £70k of this Group’s funding to build on its energy social science research
 with new partners in the Global South, focussing on gender disparities within energy system
 development. The Sustainability Strategy also identified a number of key performance indicators
 that will allow the University to track: its collaborations with partners in developing countries;
 research impact against the Sustainable Development Goals; and to build and enhance
 partnerships with external funders aligned to achieving the goals. The strategy also commits
 support for collaboration with the wider University, to ensure a systems approach to societal
 challenges by deploying the research expertise we have alongside colleagues in other units.




                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Position the unit within the University’s new large-scale strategic partnerships
 ARU has joined the Oxford-Cambridge Arc group, is building a new University in Peterborough
 in partnership with the Cambridgeshire-Peterborough Combined Authority and is part of the
 Doctoral Training Alliance of the University Alliance network with a focus on the environment and
 sustainability. Furthermore, through her position as Vice-Chair of the Cambridge Conservation
 Forum (CCF) Executive Committee, Norfolk is well placed to facilitate collaboration with large
 Cambridge-based conservation organisations; and A. Jones is a Commissioner on the Essex
 Climate Action Commission. With these large-scale strategic partnerships in place, we will seek
 to build collaborations with external partners to establish multi-year location-specific research
 projects focused around energy and/or biodiversity transitions.

 4. Maintain diversity and sustainability of research income
 We will utilise the unit’s expertise (as proposal evaluators, funding call advisors and project
 coordinators) to continue to access EU Framework Programme funding. Through focusing the
 unit's work on the UN's Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we will grow cross-faculty
 collaborations and prioritise SDGs in future internal sandpit funding and VC PhD Studentship
 bids, to continue to access international funding in partnership with our growing network of
 developing country organisations. We also plan to increase access across the unit to UKRI
 interdisciplinary project awards (across all research councils), through increasing the number of
 bids by pairing up dynamic ECRs with UKRI grant holders and new professors.

 5. Develop new commercial income opportunities
 The unit seeks to increase commercial income to at least £100k per annum, bidding for
 consultancy opportunities with local, regional and UK national governments. Working with ARU’s
 Research & Innovation Development Office (RIDO), we will increase engagement with UK
 industries and local businesses through KTPs and KEEP+, for example. Our portfolio of access
 to prestigious Foundation and Charitable Trust funding will be expanded by building on the unit's
 significant investment experience with foundations including the Dawes Foundation and
 Children's Investment Fund Foundation. The academic work-balance model (AWBM) will be
 used judiciously to create time for staff to build relationships with Trust funders; these
 relationships will be kick-started using the newly recruited Professors’ networks and support
 from the Faculty’s Trust Funding Specialist.

 Interdisciplinary research and open access

 Geography and Environmental Studies at ARU is an exemplar for the integration across and
 within natural and social sciences (Figure 1). Indeed, the unit has staff from a large variety of
 academic disciplines including Animal and Environmental Biology, Behavioural Ecology, Maths,
 Computing, Economics, Engineering, Human Geography, Sociology, Psychology, and
 Philosophy. We conduct synergistic interdisciplinary research through our successful integration
 of these different disciplinary perspectives, as part of our problem-focussed approach to
 research. For example, via a partnership with the All-Party Parliamentary Sustainable Resource
 Group (APSRG), the GSI and AERG recently collaborated on an innovative NERC bid on
 biodegradable plastics in soils, which utilised unit-wide expertise on both plastics and policy
 engagement.

 We actively promote open access and have organised several seminars around open access
 topics. For example, in November 2019, we had a panel discussion about open access with
 ARU’s REF Manager, Open Books Publishers and a representative from Cambridge
 ReproducabiliTea; and in February 2020, we organised a joint session with Cambridge
 ReproducabiliTea on ‘the value of pre-prints for ECR’. The unit leadership is committed to
 encouraging staff to utilise the University’s Open Access Fund, with 68% of staff benefitting from
 £42.3k to publish 29 Gold Open Access papers and one book. Where relevant, data are made
 publicly available, supporting the reproducibility of our research. For example, on EU Horizon
 2020 SHAPE ENERGY, we have included anonymised participant observation diaries on
 OpenAir. Further, our ESRC Centre for the Understanding of Sustainable Prosperity computer


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 models, and local invertebrate biodiversity data are all available through our institutional
 Figshare account (https://aru.figshare.com/).

 Impact enhancement

 Our approach to impact is to ensure early engagement and co-creation with key stakeholders in
 all of our projects, from proposal design stage, through problem definition to project delivery. Our
 submitted Impact Case Studies exemplify this approach. For example, business and government
 officials (UK and India) were involved from project concept stages through to policy impact (GSI:
 ICS1 Food); DP World London Gateway taskforce worked closely with ARU in tailoring solutions
 to help individual companies reduce the amount of single-use plastic being used in their supply
 chains (AERG: ICS3 Plastics); and European Commission policy officers (EC’s Directorate-
 General for Research & Innovation, Directorate-General for Energy) worked with ARU to define
 the questions that structured the underpinning research that led to funding policy change (GSI:
 ICS2 Energy).

 Impact is ensured through institutional support as outlined in the institutional environmental
 statement, including use of QR funds to support impact activities and the institutional open
 access fund to facilitate pathways to impact. For example, QR funding has been used to support
 a workshop (March 2019) with policymakers and stakeholders in the state of Andhra Pradesh,
 and to fund a Research Assistant to work with BEIS to give them insights from transition studies
 from the heat-energy transition. Similarly, staff have been supported in engaging in outreach
 events as part of our Citizen Science programme in educating the public towards animal
 distributions, invasive species and welfare. These have included a workshop (January 2017) in
 Santiago, Chile on invasive ladybirds, and an art exhibition (August 2019) in La Paz, Mexico
 which aimed to educate the public about cephalopods and the welfare implications of interacting
 with them while SCUBA diving.

 We are adopting and shaping our future impact strategy as follows:

    1) Target further QR funds to enable us to grow our existing areas of impact strength
       through working with beneficiaries from the proposal writing stage.
    2) Develop a knowledge exchange strategy, in partnership with ARU’s RIDO, to build on
       recent successes in creating a spin-out company (Exoshock) and policy advice-based
       knowledge transfer partnerships. This will include growing our capacity to respond to
       strategic regional investment opportunities.
    3) Build on the institutional Sustainable Development Working Group (founded in January
       2020 and chaired by Bharucha) to grow our cross-University collaborations and focus the
       investment of our GCRF-QR funds) so that we can respond to larger interdisciplinary
       calls for research in developing countries.
    4) Ensure strategic use of the institutional investment in Figshare open access data
       repository. We were pioneers at ARU for using Figshare, with data from the ESRC CUSP
       (A. Jones) projects being used as an exemplar for our institutional roll-out.
    5) Enhance our ongoing partnership with the University of Cambridge’s Centre for Science
       & Policy (CSaP); and utilise our existing UK/EU/UN policy connections, including our
       membership of the Universities Policy Engagement Network (UPEN), to highlight our
       capabilities to esteemed gatekeepers of relevant and prestigious researcher/stakeholder
       communities.
    6) Set up an advisory board of external stakeholders, who will be chosen specifically for
       their potential role in delivering impact in their respective areas, including: CEO of a
       national charity, lead of a research theme in a think-tank, senior government policy
       advisors, business leaders, and leads of other action research institutes from across
       Europe. The advisory board will be initially set up as part of the 10th anniversary of the
       establishment of the GSI, in December 2021.




                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Culture of research integrity

 Research integrity is a priority for this unit and is embedded across our culture. The unit is
 committed to drawing upon the recommendations from the Standard Operating Procedures for
 Research Integrity project (SOPs4RI 2020) to promote research integrity through enhancing
 local governance of research integrity. The preservation of staff research integrity is overseen by
 RIDO’s Research Ethics & Integrity Manager. Institutional support ensures that all research-
 active staff, including PGRs, complete a compulsory Research Integrity Concise e-learning
 course, as well as courses in Research Ethics and GDPR data management, which ensure that
 staff are not vulnerable to poor practices. Face-to-face RIDO training is also provided, including
 PhD supervisor training in research, along with mentoring for all ECRs and staff new to ARU’s
 research culture. In addition, there is a commitment to have all new research approved by
 School and Faculty ethics committees. Within the unit, we promote research integrity through
 enabling research cluster members to open their research methodologies, analytical approaches
 and results to critique from their peers during regular research group meetings.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and evidence of its effectiveness

 Through ARU’s ‘People 2022’ strategy document, there is a university-wide commitment to
 “transform lives through innovative, inclusive and entrepreneurial education and research” (p.2).
 In line with this, the aim of the UoA14 staffing strategy is to grow an increasingly diverse team of
 excellent researchers, directed by internationally renowned scientists who will lead the unit’s
 research.

 Our staffing strategy is delivered by research cluster leads (in partnership with line managers),
 through the following objectives:
     • Recruit and retain high quality ECRs and support their development through designated
         research time and QR funding, as per ARU’s ECR Charter.
     • Promote equality and diversity in all our recruitment and selection procedures (including
         promotions), in line with our faculty’s Athena SWAN Bronze award and ARU Race
         Equality Charter (2020).
     • Provide time (using the academic work balance model) and resources (e.g. Postdoctoral
         Research Assistants, travel funds) for staff to establish new, or exploit existing,
         relationships with business, industry and policymakers (including hosting e.g.
         conferences and seminars).
     • Develop staff expertise and experience in driving impact from their research by utilising
         central ARU resources (e.g. via RIDO, three month sabbatical scheme available via
         competitive application to all staff once every two years) and peer support within/across
         research groups.
     • Enable staff to develop individual research and professional development plans
         (reviewed annually) that complement the research cluster’s collective priorities, via e.g.
         annual appraisals, probation target-setting, (in)formal mentoring, and leadership
         opportunities.

 We have recruited research-active staff who strengthen our fundamental and applied research
 focus areas. The total FTE for submission has risen by 18%, from 17.5 FTE to 20.7 FTE, and
 the distribution of staff within the unit has shifted to reflect growth in GSI through strategic
 appointments (eight GSI research staff in 2020, compared to four GSI in 2014). The gender
 balance of staff within the submission has also shifted slightly with 55% female compared to
 50% in 2014. We have strategically used QR funding to invest in Research Fellow staff, both
 through fully QR-funded Postdoctoral Research Fellow positions in AERG (e.g. Hawes; initially
 two year fixed-term, extended to three years) and BERG (O’Mahoney; initially 12 months,
 extended to 18 months), as well as underpinning the GSI’s permanent Postdoctoral, Senior, and
 Principal Research Fellow staff costs (Foulds, Robison, Bharucha, Rohse). This has meant that,
 since REF2014, five ECR staff employed on fixed-term contracts have now been awarded

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 permanent contracts, and we have had the resources to extend the Postdoctoral Research
 Fellow fixed-term contracts of seven staff since 2014.

 The unit led the University in establishing a new career ladder for research-only posts. This
 includes creating both the Principal (Foulds, Robison) and Senior (Robison, Foulds, Bharucha,
 Natalini) Research Fellow posts to allow Postdoctoral Research Fellows or Lecturers to be
 promoted internally to research-only posts. Members of the unit specifically drafted the job
 descriptions and promotion criteria for these posts and led on the approval process within the
 central University system, as the posts became essential to retaining and developing staff within
 the unit’s areas of expertise.

 In alignment with the ARU’s Flexible Working Policy and commitments in its People 2022
 strategy, a key part of the unit’s staff retention policy has seen us investing in and utilising
 communication technology to allow remote working. This enabled us to support one member of
 staff (Robison) to work primarily from a home office, fully integrated into ARU’s IT and telephone
 systems, set up in Cornwall near the Eden Project, GSI’s MSc Sustainability partner. Having
 already done so then provided valuable insights to facilitate the extensive remote working
 required during the Covid pandemic.

 To ensure our staff are able to maximise research impact and applicability, we have set up a
 number of new initiatives since REF2014, as well as consolidating our existing support for staff.
 In particular, we facilitate exchanges between academic and business, industry, public and third
 sector bodies through a number of different routes including secondments, fellowships, voluntary
 positions and events. Specifically, this involves giving staff time and resources to work with
 external partners. Examples since REF2014 include:

     •   Time (6 months at 1.0 FTE) for a staff secondment to the UK Government Department
         for Energy and Climate Change.
     •   Hosting a three-year secondment from Opportunity Peterborough as part of the
         WE@EU FP7 project, which enabled the three Research Fellows working on the project
         to align the research more deeply with business needs through the East of England
         Water Cluster hosted by Opportunity Peterborough.
     •   Applying for, and securing, an EPSRC-funded secondment project that placed six PhD
         students into policy and business organisations including the UK Government
         Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (BEIS), EDF and the Energy
         Savings Trust.
     •   Time for staff (at least one day/month per person) to volunteer on business-led advisory
         groups and professional associations, such as Accounting for Sustainability (A. Jones);
         Resource & Environment Group of the Institute & Faculty of Actuaries (A. Jones); RGS
         Energy Geographies Research Group (Robison); European University Association’s
         Energy & Environment Platform’s Steering Committee (Foulds); and Thames Gateway
         Business Forum, involving DP World London Gateway, Goldcrest Oil, P&O, Wright’s
         Motors and Network Rail (Green).
     •   Offering Honorary Visiting Fellow positions (currently 10; 27 since 2014) to business and
         policy stakeholders to build strategic links around specific areas (e.g. Catherine
         Cameron, Agulhas; Brad Hiller, World Bank).
     •   Providing staff (Green, Dunn) with the time and the opportunity to collaborate with
         Hydrophis; a joint project to investigate biomimicry of sea snakeskin to develop a device
         to absorb carbon from the oceans and thus reduce ocean acidification.
     •   Strengthening our links with the University of Cambridge’s Centre for Science and Policy
         (CSaP) to host their policy fellows (mainly UK civil servants).

 The new ARU academic career framework recognises and explicitly rewards staff who
 undertake internationally leading research and generate impact. The UoA14 team have
 embraced and championed these ARU rewards structures, e.g. internal awards from ARU such
 as Faculty Dean’s Awards (Robison x2, N. Jones, Wascher, Howarth) and Vice Chancellor
 Awards (Foulds x2; Energy-SHIFTS project team). UoA14 staff have also supported one another

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and actively sought out possibilities to externally reward peers, including e.g. EU awards (EU
 COSME funded Energy in Water won the 2016 EU Cluster Partnership of the Year award), EC
 success story recognition (EU H2020 SHAPE ENERGY), EAUC Green Gown (A. Jones won
 Highly Commended sustainability professional in 2015), and numerous business awards (e.g.
 finalists for Finance for the Future Awards and Lloyds of London Science of Risk Awards).

 Staff development

 As per the People Development strategies within ARU’s People 2022 strategy document, the
 unit’s research clusters have fostered a culture and ethos whereby line managers and research
 leaders support the personal development of researchers at all stages of their research careers,
 whether on fixed contracts or in permanent posts. All staff, including ECRs, receive mentoring in
 both research and personal development. ECRs receive a research-specific mentor responsible
 for their continuing professional development (as per the ARU ECR Charter, p.2), and are
 guaranteed to be allocated 30% of their time for research activity during at least one of the first
 two years and one in the last three years of their ECR entitlement. They also receive £2k to
 support their research across the five years. Many staff within the unit have also engaged with
 additional external discipline-specific mentors, including Professors from e.g. Cardiff University,
 University of Essex, University of East Anglia.

 We maintain a stimulating, inclusive and accountable research environment, where line
 managers and research cluster leads ensure that ECRs benefit from support in line with ARU’s
 ECR Charter (see above), but which is also tailored to individual needs in recognition of the
 challenges they face. The unit has, for example, strategically committed to trying to include at
 least one ECR as Co-Investigator or named researcher on all project proposals as the default
 position. Our ECRs contribute significantly to the culture of research across the unit and ARU.
 They are, for example, represented on our Research and Innovation Committees at University
 and Faculty levels, on PhD supervisory panels, on Annual Review Monitoring panels for our
 PhDs, act as internal examiners for our PhDs, and contribute regularly to our seminar series.

 We have also supported the development of temporary ECR staff, enabling them to secure
 established positions at other universities, including Research Fellowships e.g. at University of
 Cambridge, University of Surrey, University of Sussex, Imperial College London, University of
 Edinburgh, University of Graz, Vienna University of Economics and Business, and Stanford
 University, to name only a few. Some ECRs have also moved into full-time employment in policy
 and practice, including e.g. the German Government (International Development Fund [GIZ] –
 Programme Officer, Madagascar), Wood Plc (Associate Director).

 During the REF period, there were 16 staff promotions within the unit (50% male, 50% female):
 five to Senior Lecturer (five female); four to Reader/Principal Lecturer (both titles now Associate
 Professor) (two male, one female); four to Senior Research Fellow, with one being a former PhD
 student in the unit (three male, one female); two to Principal Research Fellow (one male, one
 female); and one to Professor (male).

 Academic staff are also supported through the use of QR funding to create 21 short-term
 Research Assistant posts and to fund PhD studentships (see ‘Research Students’, below).
 These posts have facilitated the production of six published papers, a collection of peer-
 reviewed European Commission reports, the development of impact in our core areas, valuable
 (paid) academic experiences for many of our PhDs, as well as proof of concept data for four
 major funding applications. This strategy has resulted in an 84% increase in the quantity of
 funding applications over this REF period (see sections 1 & 3).

 Since 2014, five staff have been awarded competitive institutional 15-week sabbaticals, with a
 budget of up to £10k, to support their research. These have enabled staff to submit 11
 manuscripts (Green, Helden, Brown), one book (Brown), one book chapter (Green), develop
 impact through running two international workshops extending existing collaborations (Brown),
 establish international collaborators (Mowles), and submit two funding proposals to NERC and

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 one to the Newton Impact Scheme (Green, Mowles). Manco, an ECR who was conducting his
 PhD part-time, was able to develop novel analyses of his PhD data, present at an international
 conference, and draft two PhD chapters (completed in 2018).

 Staff have also benefitted from short writing retreats, provided at both unit and Faculty levels.
 These include unit-level writing days (on campus) and week-long retreats off campus. For
 example, the unit was successful in applying for and winning a £5k grant from the Landmark
 Trust to provide a venue for a writing retreat for 12 staff and PhD students (May 2018). Use of
 writing retreats has enabled 10 staff to publish 16 journal articles.

 To implement the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers at a unit
 level, we have built links with Vitae (who authored the Concordat and are based in Cambridge).
 This links to the unit’s collaboration with Vitae on the EU H2020 RRING project, with a particular
 focus on understanding how research and innovation can be managed and implemented
 ‘responsibly’ across contexts and cultures. A. Jones is a member of ARU’s Researcher
 Development Working Group, which oversees institutional engagement with the Concordat and
 Vitae’s HR Excellence in Research Award.

 Research students

 Our postgraduate research student community has doubled in size (0.62/FTE to 1.2/FTE) since
 REF2014. This growth has been achieved through strategic use of QR funding and diversifying
 our external funding sources (see below). Increased recruitment of high calibre students during
 the REF period has led to a 40% increase in PhD completions. As there are nil ProfDocs to be
 returned, we have not included a breakdown of doctoral degrees awarded.

 We use a supportive approach to recruiting students, whereby we encourage dialogue pre-
 interview to ensure that candidates are aware of the requirements of a research PhD proposal.
 All PGR applicants are interviewed, using a mixed gender panel wherever possible. While a
 number of our PhD students (PGRs) are self-funded, we have offered funded places regularly,
 including two VC PhD studentships and five QR-funded studentships, alongside externally
 sponsored studentships, during the assessment period.

 Since REF2014, we have successfully diversified our PGR funding sources, including:
 Sustainability East and East of England Local Government Association (Stabler); Dawe
 Charitable Trust (Pasqualino, Natalini, Agboraw); the Eden Project (Upton); and the British
 Geological Survey (Hambley). We have also explicitly linked other PGRs to RCUK and EU
 projects including the British Antarctic Survey (Manco), the ESRC CUSP (Hafner) and EU
 Horizon2020 TOMORROW (Magariello) in partnership with the Energy Cities network of 1000+
 local authorities. A priority amongst these is that PhD programmes, wherever possible, should
 be conducted in partnership with a high-profile non-academic organisation, thereby providing the
 PhD researchers with unique training opportunities and empirical contexts. Further formal
 training is provided by the ARU Doctoral School (e.g. research ethics), while all of our PGRs
 benefit from being immersed in our dynamic and open research culture. Through active
 membership of our research groups, our PGRs have the opportunity to lead paper discussions,
 present their own data, practice conference presentations, and ask questions of seminar
 speakers (the first questions are prioritised for PGRs). All of our QR-funded students have been
 supported in applying for, and have won, funding to attend conferences and enhance their
 research status.

 We have developed a successful set of PhD graduates working on sustainability and
 environment issues, as evidenced by their destinations. Posts include Lecturers and Senior
 Lecturers (e.g. ARU, University of Cumbria, Pan-Atlantic University), Research Fellows and
 Postdoctoral Research Assistants (e.g. ARU, Liverpool University, Trinity College Dublin), and
 sustainability officers (e.g. Brighton and Hove City Council). We actively support PGRs to apply
 for research fellowships/grants and external CPD opportunities to enhance their careers. For
 example, Ings supported his QR-funded PhD student (Maher) in successfully winning an Irish

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Council Postdoctoral Fellowship at Trinity College Dublin (from October 2019), and
 Bharucha supported Rizza-Starr in successfully applying for the Global Food Security Policy Lab
 in 2019. Some of our PhD students have also gone on to employment in a range of successful
 careers outside of academia. For example, Saran (supervised by A. Jones) is now the President
 of Observer Research Foundation (ORF), which is one of the most influential think-tanks in Asia.
 Pasqualino (supervised by A. Jones) established Exoshock, which uses his PhD model to
 simulate resource risks to the financial sector.

 Equality and diversity

 Our unit was part of the departmental Athena SWAN Bronze award gained by the faculty in 2019
 (this also included UoAs 3, 4, 12, 13 & 24). We therefore fully embed the University guidelines
 on equality and diversity and actively encourage part-time flexible working using both formal and
 informal routes. Within our groups, Robison co-founded and co-leads the University-wide ‘Part-
 time and Flexible Working Forum’, which received ‘Commended’ in the Allen & Overy Innovation
 Award (national ‘Working Families Special Awards’ 2017). It is the only one of its kind in the UK.
 Robison and Wascher from this unit were members of the Athena SWAN self-assessment teams
 leading to the Bronze award. Wascher is now the faculty lead for Athena SWAN, with Rohse
 also supporting on the faculty panel.

 The unit currently recognises its lack of BAME staff. To address this sector-wide imbalance, in
 terms of BAME representation, we will seek to increase diversity within the unit by working with
 our network of international partners (see section 4) to ensure we attract staff from varied
 backgrounds. This is especially important in recruiting new leaders so they can act as role
 models for ECRs and students.

 We invest in staff with disabilities and those returning from long-term sick leave or parental
 leave. One staff member has been provided with IT equipment and specialist software to help
 them adapt to visual impairment and has been supported with a phased return to work. Another
 staff member has similarly been supported in returning to work on a part-time basis after
 extended sick leave. The University Returner Scheme provides up to £4k funding to support
 those returning from parental leave to re-establish their research activity over a shorter period of
 time than would otherwise be possible. All staff returning from maternity or shared parental leave
 are able to make use of this scheme and it has been used four times to support the return to
 work of academics in this unit during this REF period (Robison, Rohse, N. Jones (twice)).

 In addition to supporting staff in working flexibly within the University Flexible Working Policy
 (see above), we also actively support staff with young children by, for example, allowing staff to
 attend conferences with children and for them to be placed in a crèche (e.g. Robison and N.
 Jones at the 2017 Royal Geographic Society conference). Beyond attendance, we also
 encourage further sector-wide use of this best practice through our own events and conferences.
 For example, Foulds has run workshops where those participants with young children had
 additional budget for different accommodation and tailored travel arrangements (e.g. Brussels’
 Energy-SHIFTS workshop, June 2019).

 We have been sensitive to additional costs for travel to facilitate research work for staff that
 require consideration with respect to disability or caring responsibilities. We have also provided
 additional mentoring for staff with disabilities and neurodiversity through, for example, proof
 reading e-mails and grant applications, taking into account these specific requirements. We also
 operate an open-door policy with managers to ensure regular access for any other staff to be
 able to highlight specific issues. Within the unit, the GSI Institute Manager (professional staff) is
 one of the Health & Wellbeing champions for the University and has set up several initiatives to
 support the wider wellbeing of staff, including Colouring Mondays (weekly mindfulness colouring
 sessions) and the Edible Garden project (a campus-based allotment project where staff and
 students can grow produce together).



                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Since REF2014, our external income generation has more than tripled from £179.5k per year
 (£10k/FTE per year) to £632k per year (£30.5k/FTE per year). We have also diversified our
 external research funding sources. Notably, we have secured income from EU Horizon 2020, EU
 Framework Programme 7, EU COSME, EU Marie Curie, European Research Council, six of the
 seven UK research councils, Royal Society, Innovate UK, UK Foreign and Commonwealth
 Office, UK central government (e.g. Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy
 (BEIS), former Department of Energy & Climate Change), charitable trusts and foundations (e.g.
 Isaac Newton Trust, Fort Vale Foundation), and research contracts with business (e.g.
 Hydrophis Gas). We have also strategically targeted and won funding from more specialised
 sources such as National Geographic, Royal Entomological Society, Linnaean Society,
 Cambridge University Botanic Gardens, Norwegian University of Life Sciences, the Association
 for the Study of Animal Behaviour, Cambridge Language Sciences Network, Rhinology and
 Laryngology Research Fund, and the Primate Society of Great Britain.

 Building on our close working relationship with industrial and government partners, we have
 made use of several in-kind benefits, notably the use of venues in London (e.g. Lloyds of
 London, UK Houses of Parliament, UK Government Departments) to host workshops and launch
 events, as well as utilising our educational partnership with the Eden Project in Cornwall to
 support further research activities. Such events have been fundamentally multi-stakeholder in
 nature, including organisations such as the Institute & Faculty of Actuaries, Institute of Chartered
 Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW), Willis Towers Watson, Atkins, etc.

 We actively seek partners across the UK, EU and international academic communities when
 leading, and collaborating in, large consortia projects. This is evidenced in winning large
 European grants (e.g. SHAPE ENERGY, Energy-SHIFTS) and UK research council grants (e.g.
 ESRC Centre for the Understanding of Sustainable Prosperity, AHRC Debating Nature’s Value).
 The multidisciplinary nature of these collaborations, and the ability to ask questions about why
 traditional approaches to certain global challenges are no longer adequate in themselves, is our
 fundamental offering and we will continue to build upon this in order to reinforce our international
 reputation. We keep abreast of changes in policy and related research needs through ARU-led
 periodic reviews of research institutes (occurring five-yearly), which involve a panel of expert and
 non-expert academics and external stakeholders. Since REF2014, this review (September 2016)
 resulted in the university increasing its internal investment into the GSI from £150k to £200k per
 year (for budget year of 2016-17 onwards).

 Researchers within the unit have benefitted from the Faculty’s and University’s support
 structures for generating external research income. All staff writing and submitting proposals
 have drawn on the expertise and feedback available from the Faculty research funding officer,
 as well as peer reviewers (as part of internal quality checks). The Faculty Head of Resources
 has also supported our staff in costing their bids. All proposals have been supported (e.g.
 budgetary planning) and peer reviewed by the RIDO Research and Innovation Funding
 Managers aligned to the Faculty, as part of the mandatory university procedures. Our three
 largest funding wins as coordinators (SHAPE ENERGY, 2016-2018, €2m; Energy-SHIFTS,
 2019-2021, €1m; FIDELIO, 2019-2024, €1.5m) were supported by European proposal
 specialists, which were paid for through central ARU funds. In addition to bid writing support, all
 staff have been supported in their development of bid writing skills through attending funding-
 focused training events and/or relevant online training courses organised by RIDO. We have
 shared our experience (A. Jones, Foulds) through leading some of these funding proposal
 training sessions for the rest of the university. In terms of generating new research project ideas,
 staff (Rohse, Bharucha, Natalini, A. Jones) attended Faculty-hosted sandpits and successfully
 obtained competitive internal seed-funding to collaborate with colleagues from other units on
 ideas of socio-ecological resilience. Through capitalising on such support structures and through
 the implementation of our own research strategies, the number of proposals and value of bids
 submitted by the unit have increased: from 31 bids with a combined value of £1.29m submitted


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in the first two years of this REF period, to 57 bids with a combined value of £9.01m submitted in
 the last two years.

 Our unit of assessment has benefited significantly from university investment in infrastructure
 and facilities. Specifically, a new £45m Science Centre that houses the majority of the Faculty of
 Science and Engineering, was completed in 2017. It has enabled UoA14 colleagues to have
 access to cutting-edge research laboratories, furnished with the latest in qPCR technologies,
 social spaces and meeting rooms to promote collaboration. The University also invested £600k
 to purchase and completely refurbish a further building (183 East Road) for the GSI, providing
 expansion space for the unit’s growing community of researchers, PhD students and visiting
 fellows. The unit also benefits from substantial technical and professional support staff input,
 such as the GSI Institute Manager, technical staff within laboratories, and externally funded
 project managers for large European and RCUK projects. The unit has invested in specialist
 software to support research output including Vensim licences for systems dynamic modelling,
 GIS licences (ArcGIS) for spatial analysis, and habitat mapping.

 The university has committed to supporting the ecological fieldwork conducted within the School
 of Life Sciences, providing funds for a dedicated field vehicle that allows our AERG and BERG
 researchers to access field sites, especially those where we have established strong research
 links, such as Wicken Fen (Hughes) and Madingley Woods (Hinde). Further investment to
 support our innovative work in the emerging field of terrestrial microplastics research (Green,
 Boots) has substantially upgraded the greenhouses on the Cambridge campus. Our researchers
 have also benefitted from Faculty and School support to conduct overseas fieldwork and to build
 external networks. For example, academic staff have been granted research leave and funding
 for travel and subsistence to conduct research in Mexico (Dunn), Canada (Wheeler), Antarctica
 (Manco), Singapore and Australia (Mowles) and Uganda (Helden). Our staff have also been
 supported in gaining the equipment, and training, necessary to conduct their research (e.g. an
 underwater drone awarded to Cooke as part of his cephalopod citizen science project in
 collaboration with National Geographic; aerial drones for Wheeler’s research on beaver habitat
 modelling in Canada).

 Our unit makes a valuable contribution to university infrastructure. We chaired the development
 group for the University’s new Sustainability Strategy (2020-26) and have been supporting its
 implementation in partnership with the Students’ Union, Estates and Facilities Services. The
 previous Sustainability Strategy (2016-20) was shortlisted for a national Sustainable Business of
 the Year Award at the 2017 ‘edie’ Sustainable Leaders Awards. Our new Sustainability Strategy,
 launched in early 2020, allows the unit to link its research across the University to ensure we
 build an interdisciplinary best practice approach to research design and funding applications.
 Past growth and anticipated future development at the unit level has undoubtedly been enabled
 by four key members of the University’s Vice-Chancellor’s Group – VC; both Deputy-VCs; Chief
 Operating Officer – having dedicated responsibilities/targets within this University Sustainability
 Strategy, ensuring that appropriate resourcing is implemented. Such resourcing decisions
 include the provision of core funding for research institutes, via QR allocation; and the funding of
 two Education for Sustainability staff, to mainstream sustainability teaching/research interests
 across the whole of the university. Our academics and research students also play an active role
 in ARU’s Biodiversity Steering Group (established in 2014, chaired by Ings), whose purpose is to
 develop and oversee implementation of a Biodiversity Action Plan on ARU-owned land and
 buildings.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations: leadership and global networks

 Staff from the unit collaborate with researchers at over 100 Universities, Research Institutes and
 NGOs across the Americas, Europe, Africa, Asia, and Australasia. We have cultivated an
 international reputation for: (1) challenging the orthodoxy within research (e.g. challenging the
 dominance of economic modelling in guiding sustainability policymaking; using citizen science

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and knowledge from indigenous peoples to move beyond traditional academic ‘expertise’); and
 (2) delivering agenda-setting interdisciplinary research (e.g. combining social sciences and
 environmental sciences in studying how technologies impact behaviour; and combining biology
 and ecology with biogeochemistry and microbiology to understand the environmental impacts of
 microplastics). This has enabled the unit to focus its research capabilities around current and
 future societal challenges, tackling e.g. food security, climate change, politics and policymaking
 landscapes, and citizen participation (Figure 1).

 We have a global reputation for collaboration on policy- and solution-oriented research
 concerning sustainability and the environment. This reputation has attracted project partners
 from across all seven continents, whether it is regarding citizen science and invasive species in
 Chile (Universidad de Chile), wildlife and social-ecological systems in Canada (University of
 Quebec in Rimouski, Vuntut Gwich’in government [Indigenous organisation]), animal
 communication and reproductive biology in Australia and Singapore (Australian National
 University, National University of Singapore), or gender and energy transitions in Nigeria and
 Ghana (Pan-Atlantic University; Friends of the Earth Ghana). In addition, our high-quality outputs
 and ability to work across disciplines and sectors has meant that we have continued to work with
 world-leading research groups on multiple projects. For example, the Norwegian University of
 Science & Technology’s (NTNU) Department of Interdisciplinary Studies of Culture (SHAPE
 ENERGY; Energy-SHIFTS; NTRANS visiting fellowship) and the British Antarctic Survey (NERC
 Horizon Scanning; PhD on resource use and management). Engagement with the European
 Energy Research Alliance (EERA, Brussels), through European Commission-led partnerships,
 has also led to an appointment as the UK representative (Foulds) of EERA’s EU-wide E3S
 group. Continued successes through EU energy projects have also led to involvement in the
 EU’s Clean Energy Transition Partnership strategic planning process (during 2020), which will
 align and coordinate €563m of EU Member State innovation funding across 2022-2027.

 We have taken an active role in co-ordinating high-profile large-consortia collaborations, where
 we have held international leadership responsibilities for concept creation, proposal-writing,
 partner management, quality control, ethics oversight, and funder reporting. For example, we
 managed and co-ordinated over 150 international researchers in SHAPE ENERGY and over 200
 in Energy-SHIFTS. In total, we have led a total of 81 externally funded research and innovation
 projects and held an additional 10 work package and task leadership positions in significant
 (more than £100k) projects.

 To enhance our research culture, we have strategically focussed on building local collaborative
 links across the city of Cambridge. This includes membership of the Cambridge Conservation
 Forum (Norfolk is the Vice-Chair of the Executive Committee; one of our PhD students is
 Secretary), which allows us to work closely with colleagues across the University of Cambridge
 and relevant conservation organisations within the forum. Our membership also allows us to use
 the facilities within the David Attenborough Building at the University of Cambridge and take part
 in research seminars held there. We are a member of the University of Cambridge Science and
 Policy (CSaP) network and regularly host their Visiting Policy Fellows; we participated in 30
 introductory meetings with senior management in e.g. Cabinet Office, HM Treasury, DEFRA,
 Welsh Government, Department for Transport, Scottish Fiscal Commission. We additionally
 regularly partner with CSaP on RCUK bids, such as the successful EPSRC Energy-PIECES
 project proposal, which we led. Finally, A. Jones sits on the council for the Cambridge
 Philosophical Society that works across both the University of Cambridge and ARU.

 Contributions to the discipline

 We periodically assess the need for our research activities addressing cross-cutting issues of
 high (and very high) policy significance through, for example, a five-yearly review of the GSI
 involving external experts as well as advisory groups for various large projects. We
 systematically consider our ongoing relationship with, for example, international and national
 climate-change policy (including being a member of the COP26 Universities Network); Brexit;
 UK industrial strategies; and EU and UK energy policy (including through our Energy-SHIFTS

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and EEIST projects). We identify emerging research questions within the field by coordinating
 participatory workshops with researchers, undertaking brainstorming and mapping exercises -
 for example exploring sectors (food), themes (governance), locations (Global North / Global
 South) and events (U.S. and Australian wildfires, Covid). Such activities ensure that our
 research groups continue to contribute to addressing current problems in the field.

 Our unit includes leading authors of collaborative and interdisciplinary articles published in
 leading journals, such as Nature Energy; Nature Sustainability; Nature Climate Change; Nature
 Scientific Data; Current Biology. In this REF period, the unit published 29 Gold Open Access
 papers and one book, all of which were directly enabled by the University’s Open Access Fund
 (£42.3k spent in total on this unit). We have edited and self-published five peer-reviewed open
 access collections, often with a range of stakeholders contributing. This includes Practices, Built
 Environment & Sustainability international network’s ‘Thinking Note Collection’ (2014) and
 ‘Responses Collection’ (2015), as well as ‘Behaviour Change from the Inside Out: applications of
 psychosocial ideas to sustainability’ (2017). We have participated in the European Union’s Open
 Research Data Pilot (ORDP) through the SHAPE ENERGY, Energy-SHIFTS and RRING
 projects. This is part of our clear strategy for open access publications in EU projects, rather
 than confidential alternatives.

 During the REF period, a third of our staff have been active members of Editorial Boards and/or
 Associate Editors for 14 leading journals. These include but are not limited to: Journal of
 Agricultural Sustainability (Bharucha); ACME: An International Journal for Critical Geographies
 (Rohse); Journal of Animal Ecology (Ings); Animal Behaviour (Wascher); Journal of Applied
 Ecology (Wheeler); Biology Letters (Mowles); Agricultural & Forest Entomology (Helden), and
 Royal Society Open Science (Wascher). A number of staff have also edited special issues of
 journals, books and collections: e.g. Current Opinions in Insect Science (Ings); Biological Control
 (Brown); Sustainability (A. Jones); Advancing Energy Policy (Foulds & Robison); PLoS ONE
 (Green); Journal of Applied Ecology (Wheeler); People and Nature (Wheeler), Frontiers in
 Ecology and Evolution (Hinde).

 Staff are active in providing advice to funders. In particular, the unit plays a key role in advising
 the European Commission’s Directorate-General for Research and Innovation (EC DG RTD) on
 the role of Social Sciences and Humanities in energy research and innovation in EU Horizon
 2020 (energy work programmes 2016-17 and 2018-20) and EU Horizon Europe (cluster five on
 climate-energy-mobility) framework programmes (more details in ICS2 Energy). Other examples
 include the RCUK Global Food Security advisory group (A. Jones); UK BEIS committee on
 H2020 energy funding calls (Foulds); Joseph Rowntree Charitable Trust (Foulds); Sustainable
 Sub-committee for the UK national European Structural and Investment Funds (ESIF) (A.
 Jones), and the Greater Cambridgeshire Greater Peterborough ESIF Sub Committee (A. Jones).

 Our significant contribution to research in sustainability and the environment is also
 demonstrated through almost half of unit staff being members of a range of different grant review
 panels and/or pools of reviewers: e.g. EPSRC (Robison; Rohse); ESRC (Robison; A. Jones);
 BBSRC (A. Jones; Green; Mowles; Wascher); NERC (A. Jones; Bharucha; Green; Ings); EU
 Horizon 2020 (Foulds; Green); British Ecological Society (Ings, Green, Norfolk), NSF (Mowles;
 Wheeler); FRS-FNRS - National Fund for Scientific Research, Belgium (Brown); CONICYT - The
 National Commission of Scientific and Technological Research, Chile (Brown); National Center
 of Science and Technology Kazakhstan (Wascher); National Research, Development and
 Innovation Office Hungary (Wascher), National Science Centre, Poland (Foulds).

 We have organised and hosted three international conferences: ‘The interface between
 sustainability research and policy’ (Cambridge, January 2015), ‘Sustainable Health Symposium’
 (Cambridge, July 2017), and ‘Designing Future Energy Policies’ (Brussels, January 2018).
 Additionally, we organised 43 international workshops; this included 17 multi-stakeholder
 workshops in partnership with city municipalities across Europe, which involved 405 attendees
 coming together around innovative ‘storytelling’ methods to find solutions to a specific local


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 energy challenge (e.g. how to meet an ambitious retrofitting target; how to decarbonise a city’s
 transport sector).

 Contributions to society

 Staff from the unit were also instrumental in setting up, and indeed chairing (until Caroline Lucas
 MP took over), the All-Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Limits to Growth (September
 2015). This APPG is now facilitated by the ESRC Centre for the Understanding of Sustainable
 Prosperity (CUSP), for which A. Jones is a Co-Investigator.

 Staff have set up and managed five Knowledge Exchange partnerships as part of the ERDF Low
 Carbon Knowledge Exchange Partnership (Aran Services; LDA Design; and three with
 Sustainability East). These partnerships supported the creation of new business opportunities
 which embedded sustainability as both an opportunity and risk for clients of these Business to
 Business organisations. They helped develop new business opportunities for those
 organisations by conducting an analysis of customer needs and organisational capacity, as well
 creating one new permanent post within those organisations. In addition, to maximise the use of
 our infrastructure, and especially the significant investment in the new Science Centre, we
 regularly host industry events in these new facilities to bring in external stakeholders and support
 our impact activities. For example, the unit co-hosted the Sustainable Health Symposium (July
 2017) with the NHS and Microsoft.

 The unit is particularly proud of its engagement with the wider public, through a range of
 innovative and interactive methods. For example, we have hosted novel ESRC-funded
 sustainability treasure hunts for children, community-facing magazines showcasing research
 findings, Question Times for Cambridge parliamentary/mayoral candidates, and school visits.
 The unit has also been involved in numerous citizen-facing festivals, such as the Cambridge
 Festival of Ideas, Cambridge Science Festival, Science Week, ESRC Festival of Social Science,
 and Pint of Science.

 Citizen engagement is a core part of our research processes. For example, Brown is leading
 research on the use of citizen science to monitor the spread of invasive species in Europe and
 South America, and Wheeler is working with indigenous people in Canada to evaluate the
 effects of climate change on arctic ecosystems. Our work has provided a mechanism to educate
 citizens on the distribution, ecology, and behaviours of invertebrates. Thus, in collaboration with
 The Centre of Ecology and Hydrology (CEH), we launched Britain’s first wildlife recording citizen
 science app (iRecord Ladybirds), which has been downloaded over 14,000 times since 2013. Its
 success led to the launch of further wildlife recording apps (e.g. iRecord Butterflies 2014,
 iRecord Grasshoppers 2015, iRecord general app 2016 – all from CEH). This represents a
 cultural shift in wildlife recording, by making recording easier and more rewarding (e.g. through
 increased feedback) for users, and more efficient for recording schemes.

 The unit also helped to set up, and continues to support, the annual Sustainability Art
 Competition in Cambridge. The unit has had significant international press coverage and
 regularly provides content for The Conversation (Bharucha, A. Jones, Natalini, Cooke, Wascher,
 Green, Norfolk, Garrod, Dunn, Manco) with a combined readership across these articles of over
 650k since January 2015. Other press coverage includes full-page articles in national
 newspapers, including an article on food crises in the Independent (24.6.15) shared over 16k
 times. It also includes many interviews on radio (e.g. BBC, local radio in the US) and television
 (e.g. BBC1 Look East, BBC2 Victoria Derbyshire, ITV Anglia News, Japan NHK, Russia Today,
 China News, Middle East News).




                                                                                             Page 15
