Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of St Andrews


 Unit of assessment: UoA 01: Clinical Medicine
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Unit context
 Emerging from a forty-year hiatus, the University of St Andrews’ School of Medicine (SoM) was
 re-established in 2002. Since then we have been working with other world-leading research
 groups in the University to develop a collaborative, focused, and agile environment that enables
 internationally leading clinical research again. We recognise that, as a relatively small and
 geographically isolated institution, we need to concentrate our research in our core successful
 areas and exploit interdisciplinary opportunities within and external to the University. Clinical
 Medicine is an increasingly broad and interdisciplinary subject area, and we maintain excellence
 by playing to our strengths. In the first half of 2017 the expanding we established a divisional
 structure to replace the single administrative entity which had served the school well in its first 15
 years. These divisions work in established areas of research strength, facilitating increased
 collaboration within the SoM and other Schools with cognate interests. Most of these are co-
 located at the North Haugh Science Campus in St Andrews which has facilitated the formation of
 eight interdisciplinary research entities in strategic areas (see Figure 1) and described in greater
 detail in section 3.2.

                                                        We also have extensive links with academic
                                                        partners nationally and internationally, with
                                                        the NHS locally and nationally and with a
                                                        wide range of industrial partners. Although a
                                                        variety of pre-clinical and clinical research is
                                                        undertaken in these interdisciplinary
                                                        institutes, centres and units, the principal
                                                        focus in the current REF period has been to
                                                        increase the quality and focus of clinical
                                                        research, culminating in the opening of the
                                                        Sir James Mackenzie Institute for Early
                                                        Diagnosis in 2019, which brought together
                                                        research groups based within the SoM and
                                                        seven other schools. Our agility and
                                                        resilience have been exemplified during
                                                        2020 through the rapid development of new
                                                        projects or repurposed work on more than
                                                        fifty Coronavirus related research projects
                                                        across the translational spectrum which is
                                                        described in greater detail in section 1.3.
        Figure 1: Interdisciplinary Research

 Unit Structure
 The Medical School has a research capacity of 27.9 Category A staff and 1 independent
 Category B staff working in three divisions:
         •Infection and Global Health (6.9 FTE Cat. A staff)
         •Cellular Medicine (13.6 FTE Cat. A staff)
         •Population and Behavioural Science (8.4 FTE Cat. A staff)
 1.5 further FTE are being returned in UoA1 one from Computer Science (Kelsey) and a joint
 appointment with Mathematics & Statistics (Lynch). We have a fourth Research Division in
 Education but their staff are not being returned within this UoA.




                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Each Division, described in greater detail below, is formed from coherent research groups and
 has a Head (HoD), Deputy Head and dedicated administrative support. HoDs report to the Dean
 (Crossman), Director of Research (Sullivan) and Director of Impact (Holden). Continuing
 integration across the divisions is encouraged though school level meetings, seminars and
 training with an inclusive Research and Impact Management group that oversees delivery of
 the strategy, and adjudicates investment in priority areas by evaluating funding requests.

 Infection & Global Health (IGH)
 The Infection and Global Health Division (Head Holden) focuses on tuberculosis, pathogen
 genomics, antibiotic resistance, and innovation in diagnosis. It leads several international trials of
 novel regimens to shorten TB treatment and to address multiple drug resistance described in
 section 3.1. As the genomic leads for the Scottish Healthcare Associated Infection Prevention
 Institute (SHAIPI) consortium, a near real-time sequencing (nRTS) facility in the School has
 been established, which has been used by NHS partners (NHS Grampian, Tayside, Fife), the
 Wellcome Sanger Institute and international collaborators, to detect outbreaks of healthcare
 associated infections across Scotland, and further afield. Building on this, Infection Group
 members have key roles in the implementation of sequencing into the Scottish Microbiology
 Reference Laboratories and NHS SARS-CoV-2 sequencing service, serving as advisors to
 Health Protection Scotland and helping build the business case, devising an end-to-end
 implementation process and overseeing its roll out within the laboratories. The Division’s
 antimicrobial resistance work is diverse and interdisciplinary, from collaborations with the School
 of Chemistry to evaluate novel antimicrobial compounds, through to the development and use of
 novel technology to understand the biological and molecular mechanisms of resistance with
 partners in the School of Physics, to leading large scale teams in Africa, (HATUA consortium)
 marrying microbiology, genomics and social sciences to understand the burden and drivers of
 antimicrobial resistance (AMR) in UTI patients, and investigating the impact of COVID-19 on
 AMR (CARE consortium). The Division was recently funded by Global Challenges Research
 Fund (GCRF) to establish the St Andrews–Africa Research (StAAR) health network for
 interdisciplinary research in biomedical and social sciences. as a mutual partnership between
 University of St Andrews and research institutions in East Africa.

 Building on our microbiology capability the division has developed ground-breaking technologies
 to address antibiotic resistance. The first, called SLIC has received several awards including a
 Longitude Prize Discovery Award and the Scottish Life Sciences Alliance Innovation of the Year
 Award. This can perform susceptibility tests is less than 30 minutes and diagnose urinary tract
 infection giving antibiotic sensitivities in 15 minutes. The University has spun-out a company
 following international investment valuing the company at $20m. The second, the molecular
 bacterial load assay (MBLA) is a two-hour method to detect and identify Tuberculosis and
 enable treatment responses to be followed in real-time. This test is being made available for
 researchers and trialists through a spin-in company "vital Bacteria", which is being prepared for
 wider commercial exploitation through collaboration with LifeArc (formerly MRC Technology).

 Global Health Researchers within the Division, develop and evaluate new diagnostic tools and
 techniques. This includes the Arclight ophthalmoscope a suite of low-cost tools being developed
 and evaluated for implementation in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs).

 Cellular Medicine (CMed)
 The Division of Cellular Medicine (Head Pitt) combines basic and clinical research with the goal
 of understanding the cellular and molecular basis of disease. The overarching aim of the
 Division is to innovate and improve current diagnosis and treatments to drive discovery in areas
 that are underserved by contemporary medicine. The Division currently comprises 13 PIs, of
 which 3 are active clinicians, one is a joint appointment with the School of Mathematics, and
 three are externally funded Research Fellows (Royal Society, Royal Society of Edinburgh and
 NHS Lothian). In recognition of their world-class research contribution, one research fellow
 (Paracchini) was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh (2019) and was promoted
 to Reader, one Research Fellow was promoted to Senior Lecturer (Pitt) and the other Research
 Fellow was recently promoted to Lecturer (Caie). These promotions highlight the desire by the

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Division and School to nurture the development of the next generation of future leaders with the
 support that the School has from the University.

 The Division of Cellular Medicine is tightly integrated with other Schools and Centres
 (Biomedical Sciences Research Complex, The Institute of Behavioural and Neural Science and
 the Centre of Biophotonics, across the University with collaborative projects, high impact outputs
 (Nature Communications, Nature Photonics, Nature Cell Biology, etc.) and shared PhD
 studentships. For example, collaborations with the Schools of Physics and Chemistry have
 developed a number of novel technologies including label-free photonic techniques to
 characterise immune cells in the blood, wide-field light-sheet imaging approaches that improve
 visualisations of complex neural tissue, development of nanolasers for deep tissue
 measurements of contractility in whole heart and live tissue slices, the use and development of
 Pulsed Electron-Electron Double Resonance approaches to determine protein structure
 (including that of membrane proteins), Mass Spectrometry and elastic resonator interference
 stress microscopy to detect mechanical forces at the pN scale. These are apparent in the use
 and development of quantitative proteomic approaches by several groups to answer clinically
 important questions, including the identification of prognostic and diagnostic biomarkers for
 disease (e.g. oesophageal cancer and Covid-19). Collaborative work utilising world leading
 lipidomic approaches to understand metabolic diseases is also ongoing with colleagues in
 Biology.

 Collaborations between the Division and the School of Mathematics and Statistics have been
 strengthened by a joint appointment (Lynch) working in the application of high-throughput
 molecular technologies to address biological and clinical questions in cancer as part of the
 International Cancer Genome Consortium and PanProstate Cancer Group consortia. The
 Division has provided research projects for several MSc students from Mathematics and
 Statistics, and there are mutually beneficial interactions with PhD students from the Statistical
 Medicine and Molecular Biology research group.

 The Division also works to strengthen clinical research through the development and use of
 novel technologies and establishing next-generation infrastructure. Examples of this are more
 fully described in Section 4.2.

 Population & Behavioural Science (PBS)
 This Division (Head McCowan) is focused on high quality research in the fields of health data
 science, trials and behavioural interventions delivered in the community and other health care
 settings. Through this work the Division aims to better understand and subsequently improve the
 health of populations, individual children, adolescents and adults. The methods we use include
 advanced health data science on routinely collected linked datasets and surveys, developing
 and evaluating public health and complex behavioural interventions and delivering community
 based clinical trials. Its membership includes eight PIs, nine post-doctoral fellows and six PhD
 students.

 The Early Detection of Lung Cancer in Scotland trial of an autoantibody biomarker in 12,209
 subjects (ECLS, Sullivan) is an exemplar of a complex clinical trials based in the community trial
 which uses advanced Electronic Medical Record and Data linkage Methods to identify potential
 trial subjects and ascertain end points using routinely collected data. Senior members of the
 group work within Health Data Research UK and McCowan leads the £1m MUrMuR-UK
 national project, Measuring & Understanding Multimorbidity using Routine Data in the UK.

 The Division has hosted the World Health Organisation (WHO) Collaborating Centre for
 International Child and Adolescent Health Policy since 2013 (Humphris, Inchley, Currie) and
 the Health Behaviour in School-aged Children (HBSC) International Research Network, which is
 an international study devised and conducted by a network of 428 members from 50 countries in
 partnership with the World Health Organisation.



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Health Psychology PIs within this division undertake world-leading research on management of
 Fears of Cancer Recurrence (Humphris, Ozakinci, van Beusekom), smoking cessation and
 tobacco control policy evaluation (Currie, Ozakinci) obesity (Cecil, Williams, Currie) and
 physical activity (Ozakinci).

 Using diverse approaches and methodologies, such as neuroimaging, neurocognition, big data,
 linked data and clinical characteristics, the addiction medicine research portfolio (led by
 Baldacchino) is able to analyse very rich data with colleagues from Scottish Universities, the
 global ENIGMA Addiction group and other international consortia to identify biosignatures –a set
 of biomarkers– that, when applied to individuals and populations, will produce better diagnosis,
 endophenotypes as well as tailored interventions for better outcomes in the field of opioid,
 tobacco and alcohol dependencies.

 The group also contributes to major ophthalmology trials such as, the Efficacy and safety of
 cross-linking in children with Keratoconus (KERALINK) Phase 2 clinical trial, the Randomised
 Comparison of Femtosecond Laser Assisted vs Manual Phacoemulsification Cataract Surgery
 Trial (FACT) and the Treatment of Advanced Glaucoma Study (TAGS). The latter is a multi-
 centre randomised controlled trial comparing primary medical treatment with primary augmented
 trabeculectomy for people with newly diagnosed advanced glaucoma (all Burr).

 1.2 Achievement of Strategic Aims
 Our strategic approach has emphasised growth in original, rigorous and impactful research
 integrated, wherever possible, across the divisions and with research in other Schools in the
 Science Faculty and the School of Geography and Sustainable Development. The University
 has recognised the value of our collaborative approach and its strategy for 2018-2023 has made
 Health, Infectious Disease and Wellbeing one of the five priority areas for investment in
 interdisciplinary research.

 Strategic growth
 Our research strategy in the current REF period has been to grow clinical research with new
 appointments in General Practice (Sullivan & Hernandez-Santiago), Psychiatry (Baldacchino)
 and Ophthalmology (Blaikie). These have been complemented by investment in non-clinical
 senior positions in Health Data Science (McCowan) and Public Health (Williams).

 In REF2014 16FTE were submitted to UoA1. We have increased the number of staff returned to
 30.4FTE–almost double the previous submission. The annual number of our publications has
 increased from 111 a year in the last REF period to 220 annually in the most recent full year and
 the quality of our outputs has also significantly improved. 60.3% of our annual publications are
 in the top 10% of cited journals and 33.7% are in the top 10% of cited papers (SciVal data).
 55% of our publications have international authorship demonstrating the global reach of our
 research. Our impact cases demonstrate how our integrated strategies and selective research
 investment support high quality research.

 1.3 Research & Impact strategy
 Our Research and Impact Management committee is chaired by the Directors of Research and
 Impact, respectively and are assisted by the School’s Research Support Lead. It includes a
 range of divisional representatives and two early career researchers (composition designed to
 span our research centres). The team assists and encourages staff in developing the impact of
 their research, reviews impact case studies from all parts of the School and coordinates with the
 University’s Research and Innovation Services.

 The Child & Adolescent Health Research Unit is the WHO Collaborating Centre for Child &
 Adolescent Health. Its work is used in several international policy initiatives. Our Infection &
 Global Health Research (IGH) group facilitates research in developing countries and members
 have significant impact through their work on the effects on Tuberculosis and Antimicrobial
 Resistance and novel eye examination tools. Members of all divisions work closely with
 governmental departments and regulators worldwide to address specific issues.

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Since the COVID-19 pandemic started, Prof. Gillespie and Dr Cevik have provided scientific
 input to the Chief Medical Officer for Scotland on COVID-19 and they serve as members of the
 New and Emerging Respiratory Virus Threats Advisory Group (NERVTAG)- an expert committee
 of the UK Department of Health. Prof. Holden took up a more substantive secondment in Public
 Health Scotland and has been responsible of the integration of SARS-CoV-2 genomics into the
 UK public health response. This Department of Health and Social Care funded consortium is
 working in partnership with the NHS, the four devolved UK Public Health Agencies and NHS
 Track and Trace to sequence SARS-CoV-2 genomes as part of the UK COVID-19 response and
 Prof. Holden serves as a member of the steering group. Prof Holden has been the strategic lead
 for the development and implementation of an NHS SARS-CoV-2 sequencing service for
 Scotland for COVID-19 outbreak detection and incident investigation (see Institution-Level
 Environment Statement, ILES, 1). Additional funding from NIHR (Powis, Holden), UKRI (Pitt),
 SFC (Stewart, Paracchini, Humphris) and CSO (McCowan, Bowness) have enabled a range of
 projects across the translational spectrum from the detection and sequencing of SARS-CoV-2
 derived HLA-I bound antigenic peptides, development of anti-virals to modelling of the spread of
 disease within and across households.

 1.4 Details of future strategic aims and goals
 Planned new growth areas will be addressed by developing strategic and productive
 partnerships with colleagues in other schools and world-leading collaborators. Our goal over the
 next five years is to double research productivity by increasing postgraduate student numbers
 (e.g. in clinical and basic science Doctoral Training Programmes) and converting large project
 grants into programmes of research as well as leading more large, multi-institutional consortia.
 We are negotiating with a Chinese Ministry of Education Class A Double First-Class University
 about opening an Institute of Early Diagnosis linked with the Mackenzie Institute and with a
 Middle Eastern University over a joint Doctoral Training Program.

 It is anticipated that the Scottish Government will shortly pass the necessary legislation to
 enable St Andrews to award a Primary Medical Qualification again. This will enable students on
 our graduate entry undergraduate medical course (ScotGEM), which started in 2018, to enter
 foundation year one in 2022. In turn, this will allow us to participate in the clinical academic track
 structures within Scotland: the Scottish Clinical Research Excellence Development Scheme
 (SCREDS). These include access to Academic Foundation posts, SCREDS lecturers, Clinical
 Doctoral Training Programmes and post-doctoral fellowship appointments.

 In the current REF period, our existing Masters’ in Medical Research and Health Psychology
 degrees have been joined by an MSc. in Digital Health (with the School of Computing) and we
 are planning an MSc. in Global Health and an MSc in Health Professions Education.
 Intermediate fellowships for Early Career Researchers have been created by the school and
 postholders will be supported to apply for externally funded senior UKRI and charity fellowships.
 2. People
 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 Staffing Strategy
 Staff numbers in the medical school have increased significantly as shown in Table 1 below
 during the current REF period with targeted growth in the numbers of early career staff and a
 higher proportion of research active staff. In order to attract and retain excellent clinical staff to
 support the expanding, more clinically-orientated school we have targeted strategic investment.
 Since 2014 we have started to expand the research-active staff complement within Clinical
 Medicine. The plans are based on three broad principles:

        1.International excellence will only be gained in the context of a University the size of St
        Andrews by aligning the SoM’s strategic ambitions with the existing strengths of our
        excellent Science Schools.



                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         2.Academic appointments with a research component to their post are made to
         complement existing strengths and planned developments.

         3.Our school is evolving through engagement with community-based medical practice.

                     Table1. Numbers and gender of staff in the medical school
                                                                   FTE                   % Female
                                                          REF2014      REF2021      REF2014    REF2021
                                                         01/08/2013 31/07/2020     01/08/2013 31/07/2020
   Professor                                                   8.90        10.20        22.5%       7.8%
   Reader                                                      2.00         3.60         0.0%      16.7%
   Sr Lecturer                                                 5.40        11.90        37.0%      54.6%
   Lecturer                                                    7.00        13.20        42.9%      54.5%
   Post-Doctoral Research Fellow                              14.80        15.60        54.1%      53.2%
   Other Research Fellow                                       2.00         4.00        50.0%      75.0%
   Research Scientist                                          1.00         2.00         0.0%      50.0%
   Total                                                      41.10        60.50        38.9%      45.3%



 Staff Development
 Faculty
 The Unit of Assessment is comprised of a productive mixture of early career staff and more
 senior researchers, which provides a vibrant research atmosphere and bodes well for our future.
 The staffing strategy aims to use our existing and emerging strengths to attract outstanding
 researchers who will complement and expand our expertise, and then support their development
 as world-class researchers. The success of this recruitment strategy is evidenced by the
 progression of staff recruited during the previous REF period and additionally, by the
 appointment of 26 Early Career Researchers from around the world. We also have excellent
 staff retention rates. We currently have an Industrial post-doctoral fellow (Hammond) and an
 MRC funded fellow with an Academy of Medical Sciences Springboard award (Bowness), an
 NHS Research Scotland Fellow (Hernandez Santiago) and an independent Early Career fellow
 on a transitional award (van Beusekom). We have plans for further appointments, in areas
 relevant to Early Diagnosis, and are aiming to recruit people at the interfaces of groupings to
 facilitate further collaboration.

 Staff Induction
 Following feedback from an internal review conducted in 2015, the school has created a
 bespoke induction process for both staff and PhD students. An information document is
 available to staff prior to their arrival in St Andrews. An induction schedule is drawn up for the
 new individual with introductory meetings and tasks pertinent to their position. They are also
 assigned a buddy, who is usually a peer with whom they will not work directly.

 Staff development
 At the University level this is co-ordinated by the Organisational and Staff Development
 Service (OSDS).
         Staff training courses and events. The University and Schools runs staff training
         sessions, which cover a range of research-related topics, such as how to obtain funding
         and how to write grant applications and peer reviewed publications. Our bioinformatics
         networking and training workshops are run twice and once a year respectively and are
         open to all schools. All supervisors of research students and staff are required to attend
         supervisor training events to receive updates on supervision best practices.
         Annual review procedures. Each Principal Investigator (PI) has an annual review meeting
         with the Head of Division. All members of contract research staff undergo an annual
         progress meeting with their PI, which includes career planning.
         Mentoring schemes. Probationary academic staff members are required to have a
         mentor, and all staff are encouraged to seek mentoring from colleagues in their own
         school or other schools.

                                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Financial support for contract research staff. Staff are given a school-funded
        consumables budget based upon number of PhD students supervised, which can also be
        used for travel. In addition, all can apply for a travel award when presenting at
        conferences.
        Impact Leave. PIs are encouraged to apply to the Head of School for leave to allow staff
        to focus on research or impact activities. Applications are collated and awarded following
        a transparent review process by senior academic staff members within the School (HoS,
        DoR, DoT and Director of EDI).

 2.2 Support and Supervision of Early career researchers and research students
 The school has a lively postgraduate community currently comprising 24 post-doctoral
 researchers (PDRAs) and 48 PhD students, 35 of whom are externally funded from a variety of
 funding bodies detailed below. The school has a robust and integrated research student culture
 with weekly Divisional research seminars and active participation in the North Haugh Campus
 seminar series (e.g. the Biological Sciences Research Complex involving researchers from
 Medicine, Biology, Chemistry and Physics). Postgraduate Research students and post-docs are
 actively engaged in these activities, and this forms an integral part of their training. PIs within the
 Divisions contribute to external training programmes building the research base nationally and
 internationally (e.g. Physiological Society, European Molecular Biology Organization., the
 Scottish Universities Physics Alliance).

 Postgraduate students have monthly lunchtime meetings where they have an opportunity to give
 short presentations on their work to their peers. All postgraduate (including taught) students and
 medical demonstrators are invited to attend these meetings. The Divisions also all run weekly
 research in progress meetings where postgraduate students present their work alongside other
 staff.

 Student experience is assessed annually, and the 2019 results show that a large majority of
 postgraduate students (80%-100%) are highly satisfied with their programme.

 Funding
 Postgraduate student numbers: Our current cohort of 48 research postgraduates is diverse,
 originating from 21 different countries, and were admitted with excellent first degrees and
 masters’ qualifications. Competition for funded places is very strong. This cohort comprises
 individuals working towards a PhD. At 01/01/14 we had 21.5FTE of PhD students (20 full time
 and 3 part time) on 01/01/20 we have 40FTE 75% of which are externally funded. Each PI has
 PhD students and 0.24 PhD students graduate annually for each FTE submitted to REF.

 Studentship funding sources: During the REF period the School has received PhD studentship
 funding from a wide range of sources, including the MRC, ESRC, EDCTP, Commonwealth
 Scholarships, CSO and the University of St Andrews Scholarships scheme. The School has
 obtained PhD studentship funding from industrial partners including as part of the Industrial
 Centre for Artificial Intelligence Research in Digital Diagnostics (iCAIRD) (Bering, Canon, Deep
 Cognito Ltd, Glencoe Software, Intersystems and Kheiron Medical Technologies). PhD
 scholarships also have been provided by charitable organisations, often in collaboration with the
 charity themselves, including the BHF, Tenovus, Carnegie Trust, Melville Trust and Cunningham
 Trust. Our students have received funding from government and charitable organisations in
 Chile, China, Columbia, Indonesia, India, Japan, Kuwait, Lithuania, Norway and Turkey. The
 School directly funds 8 PhD studentships each year from its annual budget.




                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                     Table 2 PhD funding sources

                                                                           UK
                   BEIS Research Councils (The Royal                       Government,
                                                         UK-based
         Year      Society, British Academy and The                        industry and    EU         Non-EU
                                                         charities
                   Royal Society of Edinburgh)                             other UK
                                                                           sources

         2013/14                                   21%               14%             43%        20%       2%
         2014/15                                   23%               11%             45%        21%       0%
         2015/16                                   20%               19%             50%         8%       3%
         2016/17                                   17%               21%             49%        11%       1%
         2017/18                                   18%               23%             46%        10%       3%
         2018/19                                   19%               21%             45%        11%       3%
         2019/20                                   11%               11%             29%        49%     0.5%



 Supervision, training and student engagement:
 Student representatives sit on the School Council, Postgraduate Committee, Research
 Committee, EDI Committee and Staff-Student Consultative Committee. The Centre for
 Educational Enhancement and Development (CEED) provides exceptional support for
 students through mentoring, professional development training (Passport to Research Futures;
 designed around Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework), Patient and Public Involvement
 (facilitated by SoM’s Community Advisory Council and Design St Andrews network), and
 professional support. All PhD students are assigned a Second Supervisor (sometimes across
 schools and sometimes a 3rd supervisor to enable more junior post-doctoral staff to develop their
 skills), who is responsible for monitoring student progress and providing academic support.
 Student progress is monitored via reports at the end of the first year to determine progression to
 the second year by the monitoring committee comprising of a convenor and tutor, which review
 the student and supervisors’ written reports and meet thereafter. All information is made
 available for students in the School’s Postgraduate Handbook and students can access their
 own annual reports in Module Management System (MMS) and discuss these with their
 supervisors.

 Within the School we provide access to a comprehensive Postgraduate Training Programme,
 which consists of subject-specific, professional skills courses and other training events. Each
 year, postgraduates give a 30-minute Work in Progress (WiP) talk and produce a poster for the
 Postgraduate Research Session in the School. Specific training programmes for individual
 students are agreed annually with supervisors, and students keep a record of all their training
 activities in a Postgraduate Logbook. The School’s Postgraduate Statistics Advisor is available
 and holds drop-in sessions to support statistical training. All postgraduate research students are
 provided with a desk and workstation, and supervisors receive funding to support basic research
 expenses, including UK conference attendance and visits to external laboratories. The School’s
 Research Student Travel Fund provides support for attendance at international conferences.
 Students are encouraged to attend the School Seminars and a lunch is provided free of charge
 at each of these to facilitate interaction with speakers. Students are also invited to attend other
 meals with the speakers, with student costs supplemented from the School budget.
 Postgraduates also participate in the annual research meeting of the school. As part of the
 school-based Virtual Learning Environment (Galen) timetabling system for taught students, there
 is an e-portfolio area which each of these postgraduate students has access to in order to record
 their work and achievements. 60% postgraduate students go on to full time employment 20% to
 part-time employment and 20% to further study.

 2.3 How we promote and Support Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 In recognition of its ongoing commitment to EDI, the SoM has appointed a Director of EDI (ILES,
 3.1) whose status is equivalent to the Directors of Teaching and Research. This post supports
 the vital work and a strategy to deliver on our School’s vision is currently under development.
 The School currently holds an Athena SWAN Bronze award and delivery of our 2016 Athena
 SWAN action plan and ambition for accreditation informs part of our overall EDI strategy. A

                                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 School Athena SWAN began to meet in November 2019 to prepare for an award application in
 November 2021. The School follows all recommended guidance in the University Code of
 Practice, and we offer leave to researchers with parenting or other special circumstances. Our
 School is highly supportive of staff with a diversity of needs and requirements. We encourage
 informal flexible and remote working when feasible (over 70% of our research staff report that
 they work flexible hours). We support both reduced hours and annualised hours contracts when
 feasible. We have recently formalised our flexible working policy in the School Handbook and
 have included case studies of staff who have benefitted from flexible working on our EDI pages.
 Some of our initiatives 2014-2020 have included:
       •Development of a comprehensive and transparent workload model to balance workload
       across research, teaching and administrative load for all staff.
       •Annual verification that there are no inherent gender, age or other biases introduced
       inadvertently by School policies
       •Continued revision of the structure of the workload model to maximise transparency,
       fairness and utility.
       •Development of undergraduate tutorials dealing with unconscious bias and disability
       issues.
       •50% of seminar programme speakers are women
       •Development of a checklist for advertising material to ensure as wide as possible a pool
       of applicants is notified and that we equally encourage applicants of all backgrounds.
       •An Unconscious bias training refresher prior to interviewing prospective undergraduate
       students.
       •Support for junior researchers in grant applications in terms of review and feedback,
       and providing recent exemplars of successful grant submissions
       •Increased support for those taking leave, in terms of consultation, potential formal
       support (e.g., assistance for experimental work during leave), and reduced teaching load
       upon return from leave.
       •Regular engagement at institutional level in terms of suggestions for policy revision and
       improvement. We have provided comprehensive feedback on family-friendly policies and
       support available for staff taking leave (see examples below).
       •Our Gateway to Medicine is a one-year programme intended to promote the uptake of
       higher education, specifically the study of medicine, among those groups that are
       traditionally underrepresented at university. The Gateway provides the opportunity for
       pupils resident in Scotland who have completed S5 at school to study at first-year
       undergraduate level. Those who pass the course and meet the other requirements for
       progression will transfer into the six-year Medicine A100 course.

 In order to not disadvantage staff on reduced hours, we have initiated school core hours of
 9.15am–2.45pm (based on school hours for local primary schools). All departmental meetings
 and seminars are held within these times. Social gatherings are mostly held during working
 hours (e.g. reception to welcome new students, graduation party, poster session for 3rd year
 students). We have a few staff for whom disabilities makes sitting in theatre-style venues
 particularly difficult. We have introduced live streaming of high-profile lectures and other training
 material which we have expanded when Covid restrictions were imposed and have received
 very favourable feedback on this.

 Support for those taking or returning from leave
 We have initiated a more formal support structure for those taking leave, with consultation
 meetings with the director of EDI and with the Director of Research and the Head of School. The
 former ensures that staff are aware of opportunities (e.g., the University Caring Fund is available
 to support staff with caring responsibilities associated with attending events as part of their role).
 The latter evaluates any support from the School that would help minimise any career impact of
 taking leave (e.g. phased return to work, technical support requirements, supervision and
 continuance of research while on leave).

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Career Pathways for Staff
 In 2017, the School strengthened mentorship and established a gender-balanced panel to
 provide support on promotion applications and promotions procedures. Much of this activity has
 continued or has been adapted for online delivery. Positive results of these actions are now
 emerging. We have seen much-improved submission and success rates in the promotion
 process. In 2020, we initiated an annual promotions workshop to increase understanding and
 encourage appropriate representative engagement with the promotions process.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Income
 Grant income
 Our grant income in this REF period has more than trebled from £6.8m in REF 2014 to
 £24.3M compared to the REF2014 period. The annual grant income figures are shown in Figure
 2 and an analysis of the grant sources in Ref 4B shows that our research council income has
 grown by 11.3% charities’ income has almost doubled and there has been a recent major growth
 in recent EU funding.

                                Figure 2 Annual Grant Income




 Our income data includes funding allocated to St Andrews for world leading collaborations on
 projects where spending is spread across multiple organisations. Examples include: Simplified
 Short Treatments for Tuberculosis, (PanACEA 2 Pan-African Consortium for the Evaluation of
 Anti-tuberculosis Agents, €16.5M, SimpliciTB Consortium European Developing Countries
 clinical Trials Partnership (EDCTP): €12M; Food Security & Health in East Africa EPSRC £1.1M,
 Harnessing natural product diversity to combat multidrug-resistant pathogens (£1.5M SA UK
 Newton Fund Antibiotic Accelerator Initiative) (all Gillespie); the Holistic Approach Towards
 Unravelling Antibiotic Resistance in East Africa, HATUA Consortium: MRC: £3M, SHAIPI CSO,
 £4.2M, CARE: COVID-19 and Antimicrobial Resistance in East-Africa–impact and response,
 NIHR, £900k (all Holden), The Industrial Centre for Artificial Intelligence Research in Digital
 Diagnostics (iCAIRD: £15M Harrison); The Early Child Protection work with families at risk
 Project (ERICA), EU 2020: €450K; Assessing prescription opioid overdose risk (POOR) via a


                                                                                         Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 quality improvement process led by NHS Fife Pharmacy and scoping the feasibility of a specific
 overdose prevention intervention delivered by Community Pharmacists. Functional and
 structural neuroimaging and neuropsychological consequences of chronic suboxone use
 (NEMO), Indivior, £275K; A systems approach to exploring syndemic health and social condition
 clustering among individuals who experience a drug-related death (DRD): Developmental work
 for co-produced intervention(s), (CSO) £277K (all Baldacchino), The Early detection of Lung
 Cancer Scotland (ECLS) trial £5M and the Scottish Health Research register (SHARE £1.2M)
 (both Sullivan), the CRUK Prostate International Genome Consortium Project (£1.7M Lynch)
 The Health, Behaviour in School Age Children Survey from NHS Scotland (£800K Inchley) and
 the Health Data Research UK National Multimorbidity Resource £1.1M (McCowan).

 3.2 Infrastructure
 One of the main research infrastructure initiatives during this REF period was the creation of the
 Sir James Mackenzie Institute for Early Diagnosis. The institute has three main research
 platforms: Health Data Science, Advanced Digital Diagnostics & Emerging Technologies and
 Biophotonics in Early Diagnosis.

                                                         The Institute offers an inspiring and
                                                         supportive environment committed to
                                                         fostering ideas, sharing of knowledge and
                                                         skills with a focus on earlier diagnosis of
                                                         human disease. Academic staff retain
                                                         offices and laboratories in the schools to
                                                         which they belong initially. Postgraduate
                                                         and postdoctoral students within the
                                                         schools involved have shared space that
                                                         enables collaborative links to develop. Its
                                                         objectives are to develop, test and
                                                         implement research programmes which
                                                         have the capacity to achieve substantial
                                                         improvements to early diagnosis in four
                                                         clinical areas: Infection, Cancer,
                                                         Cardiovascular Disease and Mental
                                                         health

                                                     We are also heavily involved in
                                                     interdisciplinary research in several
                                                     interdisciplinary communities of
 researchers in St Andrews which have been in existence prior to the current REF period.

 In 2012 Paracchini established, and has since led, the St Andrews Bioinformatics Unit
 (StABU) which supports the analysis of genetic and functional genomics data. The infrastructure
 was funded and supported through two consecutive Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic
 Support Fund awards (total of £325K). The Unit is managed by a committee with representatives
 of the Schools of Medicine and Biology which include most of the user base. An economic plan
 based on grant recovery and sustainability charges has ensured the maintenance and
 expansion of the hardware and long-term sustainability with the appointment of a full-time
 dedicated bioinformatician). In addition to managing a dedicated cluster and supporting data
 analysis, StABU has further developed its scope and has now become a key asset for the St
 Andrews bioinformatics community, by providing a networking platform and training
 opportunities. Since its establishment, StABU has supported researchers spread across different
 Schools with 50 grant submissions leading to a total of £4.5M funding. Given the increasing
 demands in this area as well as in data-driven research across disciplines, the University has
 invested £325K in improving our High-Performance Computing capability by merging the
 existing bioinformatics cluster and a maths/chemistry cluster to enable new collaborative work.
 This improved capability provides key infrastructure to deliver world leading data science


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research. In addition to support for current “big data” applications (e.g. simulation,
 bioinformatics), the new facility includes GPU nodes that will support image processing and
 machine learning approaches. We anticipate that the cross-school use of the facility will also
 foster cross-disciplinary and innovative ideas.

 PIs across two of the SoM’s divisions (CMED and PBS) are active members of the Institute of
 Behavioural and Neural Sciences (IBANS). IBANS is an interdisciplinary community of
 researchers interested in different aspects of behaviour and neuroscience bringing together a
 large community across different Schools. IBANS aligns with one of the key themes “Evolution,
 Behaviour, and Environment” underpinning the research strategy of the University of St
 Andrews. The steering committee, chaired by two co-Directors (currently Paracchini is serving
 in this role), is composed by PhD students and post-docs representatives of different Schools,
 including Medicine. IBANS hosts regular events featuring presentations by Early Career
 Researchers and high-profile external speakers, who are proposed and selected through a
 voting system that involves the IBANS membership. IBANS provides a platform for networking
 and regularly awards seed-corn funds to promote new cross-School collaborations.

 The Biomedical Sciences Research Complex (BSRC) is an interdisciplinary centre for
 biomedical research with contributions from the Schools of Biology, Chemistry, Medicine,
 Physics and Astronomy. The BSRC's main research themes are infection and immunity,
 biophysics, molecular medicine, and chemical biology. The BSRC is funded by a range of
 agencies including the Institutional Strategic Support Fund from the Wellcome Trust.

 The BSRC brings together researchers to explore scientific strengths, share expertise, provide
 access to state-of-the art technologies and develop new collaborative opportunities to drive
 research to its full potential. Scientists associated with sixty research groups within the BSRC
 perform highly innovative, multi-disciplinary research in eleven broad areas of biomedical
 research including biophysics, molecular medicine, microbiology and structural biology. The
 complex houses core research facilities including advanced imaging suites (wide field
 fluorescence light microscope with deconvolution and a quantitative laser module to allow
 techniques like FRET, FLIP and FRAP, and multiple confocal imaging systems), pulsed electron-
 electron double resonance spectroscopy, and mass spectrometers to enable protein
 identification (MALDI MS & MSMS), intact protein mass (LCMS) and quantitative proteomics
 (SWATH and iTRAQ). The BSRC is a vibrant research environment holding weekly research
 seminars, annual research away days for PIs, cross-campus workshops in core research areas
 (bioinformatics, membrane biology, organelle cross talk, and cellular pathology), a University-
 leading commitment to supporting the careers of Women in Science and to outreach activities,
 and training opportunities for early career scientists including fellowship days and cross campus
 work-in-progress talks.

 Centre for Biophotonics
 Biophotonics research in St Andrews is internationally recognised and has critical mass in terms
 of funding and scientific collaboration with current grant funding this REF cycle in excess of
 £14M, and a string of high impact interdisciplinary publications (e.g. Nature Protocols, Nature
 Cell Biology, Nature Photonics, Nature Communications, Science Advances). Building upon a
 strong heritage of leading research in photonics, Biophotonics in St Andrews was formed in
 2004 from initial grants from an EPSRC Bioplatform grant and a CRUK interdisciplinary grant
 which brought together researchers from Physics, Biology and Medicine. In the subsequent
 years, larger and more significant funds have been attained in open competition, and its
 significance was recognised by the University by building the Wolfson Laboratories in the
 Medical and Biological Sciences Building and undertaking a major refurbishment in Physics. In
 recent years Biophotonics in St Andrews has continued to develop from a core of laser physics
 to a broad portfolio spanning organic semiconductors, metamaterials, quantum optics, advanced
 imaging and metrology, and communications. Biophotonics in St Andrews was recently
 recognised as a core research strength by the University, and in order to capitalise on this
 research success a Centre of Biophotonics was launched in December 2019. The centre
 combines the skills of twenty-five principal investigators working across four Schools (Medicine,
                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Physics, Biology, Psychology & Neuroscience). Medical photonics is a key research platform of
 the Sir James Mackenzie Institute for Early Diagnosis.

 3.3 Facilities to support Research
 During this REF period, university investment has improved our research infrastructure and we
 have been successful in increasing numbers of large project awards and have obtained
 Infrastructure funding from the Wellcome Trust ISSF, BBSRC and a Royal Society Wolfson
 Laboratory Development. The Medical school moved to a new building in the heart of the
 Science campus in 2010 with a £45M investment to create purpose-built, and world leading
 facilities for the teaching of medicine and biomedical research. These facilities have been
 upgraded during the current REF period. For research, there are now two large (409m2) well-
 equipped shared laboratories which in total, provide bench space for 16 PIs. One of the
 laboratories is set up to work to Good Laboratory Practice standards. In addition, there are 4
 dedicated tissue culture suites (each with 3 hoods/6 incubators), a microbiological lab and
 fermentation suite, a radioisotope lab, wash-up room and several rooms for shared equipment
 (microscopy, alarmed freezers, centrifuges etc.). There is a 320m2 Biophotonics laboratory and a
 44m2 cell store archive for cryopreservation of cells and tissues. Some of the laboratory space in
 the building is shared with teams working in the Schools of Biology and Physics. Researchers in
 UoA1 collaborate with research teams across, and use facilities within, the North Haugh:
 notably, those in the Biomedical Sciences Research Complex, Physics and Astronomy,
 Computing Science, Mathematics and Statistics and Chemistry.

 We have built up a world-leading digital pathology infrastructure including tissue processors,
 autostainers, whole-slide fluorescence and brightfield scanners, commercial and open-source
 automated image analysis software and NVIDIA servers optimised for large scale deep learning
 analysis. This core infrastructure supports advanced research projects in the Division’s research
 strengths including human genomic bioinformatics, medical photonics, nanoscale quantitation,
 metal ion physiology, proteomics, digital pathology, quantitative image analysis and
 histopathology. We have been successful in obtaining a £1M investment for an Orbitrap mass
 spectrometer led by Sally Shirran in Biology. The bid involved 10 co-investigators from St
 Andrews and 1 from James Hutton Institute. We have also upgraded our Electron Paramagnetic
 Resonance Spectroscopy with a bid involving 8 co-investigators from St Andrews and
 colleagues from Dundee, Leeds, Durham, Birmingham, Oxford, Bristol.

 Research Integrity
 The Medical School participates fully in the University Research Integrity structures (ILES, 2.6).
 Our School Ethics Committees reports to the University Teaching and Research Ethics
 Committee (UTREC) and Animal Welfare and Ethics Committee (AWEC), working with the and
 the Ethics and Research Integrity Assurance Group to ensure that research integrity and ethics
 are embedded in research activity. The University has developed training programmes in
 research integrity. A part of the training of PhD students consists of a mandatory research
 integrity course.

 The SoM is represented at the Institution’s Research Data Management Advisory Group
 (RDMAG) which discuss research data management issues and opportunities. The RDMAG
 member acts as a liaison between the School and the RDM team facilitating collaborative
 projects such as the development of guidance on open data.

 Open Research and Open Data
 The University has arranged various membership agreements which support open access
 publishing. These have been chosen based on national negotiations, recommendations and
 consultation with academic staff, and because they represent good value and efficient use of
 funds. The overall compliance for publications published in the past 12 months, is 96% for those
 submitted in REF. Work is currently in progress to start developing a discipline-specific guidance
 document for the SoM covering datasets as well as papers. We make extensive use of preprints,
 Open Source Format and archiving in public repositories via the University’s web-based


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research information system (PURE). The SoM Research Investment Fund supports open
 source publication which is not covered by grant funding

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 Research Networks
 We have a strong track record of collaborative working, so much of our research is collaborative
 across multiple international, UK and Scottish institutions as shown in Figure 3.

     Figure 3 International Collaboration on Research Publications in Clinical Medicine




 We have developed an extensive interdisciplinary network of collaborators in many countries
 (Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania, Malawi, Mozambique, South Africa, Gabon, Ghana, Sierra Leone,
 Cote d’Ivoire, Vietnam, Thailand, Singapore, Netherlands, and Germany). This has been
 achieved by networking and team building to successfully compete for research funding. Notable
 successes since 2014 include funded research networks TWENDE (Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania &
 UK) €440K by European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership (EDCTP),
 VALIDATE (Mozambique UK) $55K by DNA Genotek Ltd Canada, HATUA (Uganda, Kenya,
 Tanzania, USA & UK) £2.88M by MRC-UK, CARE (Uganda and Tanzania) £900k by NIHR, TB-
 MBLA (Uganda, Malawi, Tanzania, Gabon, Ghana, South Africa, Vietnam, Singapore, Thailand,
 Netherland, Germany & UK) by ~£430K by UKRI–SCF/GCRF and the SWAB (Ghana, Sierra
 Leone, Cote d’Ivoire & UK) £44K by SFC/GCRF.

 Holden has also obtained significant Antimicrobial Resistance funding as a co-applicant on the
 SIRN-CSO HAI Research Consortium, £4.2m 2015-20 SHAIPI. We are one of six HEIs in the
 Scottish Consortium in Health Data Research UK and McCowan leads the Multimorbidity
 Research Program within HDRUK. Sullivan is the lead for NHS Research Scotland’s Primary
 Care Network’s Eastern Node and an advisor to Primary Care Research Networks in Canada
 (UTOPIAN-Toronto), Ireland (CTNI) Norway (Forskningsinfrastruktur), Germany (DESAM
 ForNet).

 4.2 Wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy and society.
 Professional Training
 Gillespie, Lucocq and Sabiiti lead a Wellcome Genome Campus Advanced Course on
 Genomics and Clinical Microbiology now in its 15th year. Its objective is to support translation of


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 genomic knowledge into clinical practice and we have trained 288 senior clinical scientists from
 across the world.

 Holden leads Wellcome Genome Campus Advanced Courses - Genomics and Epidemiological
 Surveillance of Bacterial Pathogens. This comprises 5-day workshops providing bioinformatics
 and whole genome sequencing training to researchers, clinical scientist and epidemiologists
 from across Latin America and SE Asia. Seven workshops have been run in this REF period.

 The Health Psychology group run a MSc in Health Psychology for 10-12 Psychology graduates
 each year in their discipline with many graduates going on to practice as health or clinical
 psychologists in the NHS. Alternatively, they work within health care-centred research as
 research assistants. The popular course has run for over 10 years and has received multiple
 commendations from the British Psychological Society who visit every five years as the
 accreditation body.

 Prizes Awarded
 Crossman
 Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh 2020
 Gillespie:
 Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh 2018
 Scottish Life Sciences Award for Innovation of the Year 2018 for SLIC susceptibility
 Shortlisted Times Higher Education Innovation of the Year for SLIC susceptibility 2017
 Longitude Prize Discovery Award 2015Inter-science Conference on Antibiotic Agents and
 Chemotherapy of the American Society of Microbiology Program Committee Award for the best
 presentation in the area of Therapy and Prevention Washington September 2014
 Paracchini
 Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh 2019
 Sullivan:
 University of Toronto, Department of Family & Community Medicine Outstanding Contribution to
 Family Medicine Research Award 2016
 RCGP James Mackenzie lecturer 2015
 Ian Stevenson Prize for Excellence in Public Engagement with Research. 2014
 Blaikie
 Victoria & Albert Museum, Dundee, Design Champion Award 2019
 The Arclight ophthalmoscope was awarded a ‘design champion’ award for the innovative yet
 practical approach to design, August 2018
 Hammond
 Scottish Innovation of the Year 2018
 Runner up- THE awards 2017
 Discovery award 2016
 Humphris
 Research Giant Award 2019, University of Southern Queensland for distress recognition in
 doctor patient interaction

 Major Projects
 Harrison was appointed to NCRI’s Cellular Molecular Pathology Initiative (CM-Path) in 2016 to
 bring together experts from pathology and other fields to build a stronger skills and resource
 base for the UK to undertake pathology research. The collaboration of NCRI Partners committed
 £635,000 to the initiative to boost the UK’s research activity in cellular molecular pathology.
 Sullivan Led the largest biomarker trial in Lung Cancer (ECLS) and was the foundation director
 of the University of Toronto Practice based Research network. He is a director of the, Scottish
 Health Research Register (SHARE), which is a list of 300K people in Scotland, who have
 agreed to allow their electronic medical records to be accessed for research, and primary care
 data. This informs, supports and enables evaluation of the activities undertaken as a result of the
 NHS Fife, and NHS Scotland Clinical Strategy. SHARE has been franchised in North West
 London (NWL) as DISCOVER and in the USA a similar ‘All of us’ database has launched. He is
 also a site lead for the Scottish Health Data Research UK (HDRUK) node in St Andrews. From

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2014-17 he was the inaugural Gordon F Cheesbrough Chair and foundation director of the
 University of Toronto’s Practice based research Network (a £2M development)
 Gillespie CI of PanACEA 2 Pan-African Consortium for the Evaluation of Anti-tuberculosis
 Agents (€16.5 million jointly with Martin Boeree, Michael Hoelscher and 12 African
 collaborators).
 Holden is a senior advisor on the Scottish Universities Life Science Alliance (SULSA) and leads
 large collaborations on antimicrobial stewardship: AMR cross-research council initiative, GCRF-
 NIHR Principal-applicant 2018-21, £2.8m-HATUA, Global Effort on COVID-19 (GECO) Health
 Research NIHR Principal-applicant 2020-22, £900k-CARE: COVID-19 and Antimicrobial
 Resistance in East-Africa–impact and response; and SIRN-CSO HAI Research Consortium, co-
 applicant, £4.2m 2015-20 SHAIP. He is also a co-investigator on Enabling optimal antimicrobial
 use in East AfricaGlobal Research Challenges Fund investments in AMR (London School of
 Tropical Medicine and Hygiene; Glasgow, St Andrews; and Malawi Liverpool Wellcome Trust.
 Baldacchino was seconded to the WHO Eastern Mediterranean Region as an advisor on
 Substance misuse in 2019 and is the Executive Board Member and Chair for the training and
 education Committee. He is the President of the International Society of Addiction Medicine
 (ISAM). He is also a founding member for the European Network for Training, Education and
 Research (ENTER)-Mental Health. He established (with Sullivan) a Learning Health System
 ‘Enabling Learning NHS Care Systems utilising Electronic Medical Records’ (ELectra) in Fife to
 underpin research and influence clinical care. It leverages existing local and national
 investments in information technology and digital health that are essential for the delivery of the
 NHS Scotland Clinical Strategy five-year plan, using the Scottish Community Health Index
 Number (CHI) as a linkage tool. The main datasets that are being used are from Information
 Services Division (ISD) and other national datasets, such as of the Scottish Health Research
 Registry (SHARE).
 Burr is a co-investigator on four major grants in Eye Disease from NIHR: Screening for Diabetic
 Retinopathy. NIHR Policy Research programme £596,000. 1/4/2019 for 24 months; Efficacy and
 safety of cross-linking in children with Keratoconus. The KERALINK Phase 2 clinical trial NIHR–
 Efficacy Mechanism and Evaluation (EME) (14/23/18)–£774K Start date: 01/10/2015. Duration:
 48 months; Randomised Comparison of Femtosecond Laser Assisted vs Manual
 Phacoemulsification Cataract Surgery: The FACT trial NIHR–HTA (13/04/46)–£1.4M Start date:
 01/09/2014. Duration: 48 months: Treatment of Advanced Glaucoma Study (TAGS): A multi-
 centre randomised controlled trial comparing primary medical treatment with primary augmented
 trabeculectomy for people with newly diagnosed advanced glaucoma. NIHR–HTA 12/35/38–
 £2.0M Start date: 01/01/2014. Duration: 73 months.

 NHS
 During the current REF period the number of clinically active staff has increased from three to
 ten: Cardiology (Crossman) Psychiatry (Baldacchino & Kent), Psychology (Humphris),
 Microbiology (Gillespie), Infectious Disease (Sloan), Laboratory Medicine (Harrison)
 Ophthalmology (Blaikie),) and General Practice (Sullivan and Hernandez-Santiago). Non-
 clinical staff make a significant contribution to the NHS via public health (Holden, McCowan,
 Williams, Sabiiti, Crawford). Baldacchino is NHS Fife Research, Development and Innovation
 Director.

 Working with external partners in the NHS and Industry we are already seeing the impact of a
 learning health system in NHS Fife (Sullivan, McCowan and Baldacchino). This is a research
 environment linking data science and the evaluation of clinical innovations in a positive feedback
 loop, two current exemplars are in the promotion of exercise and more rational antimicrobial
 prescribing for Urinary Tract Infections. Discussions are under way to extend this to other areas
 of Scotland via the City Deals.


 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline
 Baldacchino is the President of the International Society of Addiction Medicine (ISAM)
 Sullivan led a review of Academic Careers in General Practice in Scotland commissioned by
 Scotland’s Board for Academic Medicine which reported in March 2020

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Crawford is a member of the NIHR HTA General Committee.
 Gillespie is an active fellow of the Royal College of Pathologists and a Council member 2010-
 16.
 Ozakinci has been the chair of Health Psychology Scotland since February 2020.
 The following are fellows of relevant Societies which are important for Clinical Medicine.
 Royal Society of Edinburgh: Sullivan, Crossman, Gillespie. Paracchini
 Royal College of Physicians (UK): Crossman, Sullivan
 Royal College of Physicians (Edin): Baldacchino, Crossman, Humphris, Gillespie
 Royal College of Physicians (Glas): Sullivan
 Royal College of Psychiatrists (UK): Baldacchino
 Royal College of General Practitioners: Sullivan
 Royal Society of Biology: Paracchini, Stewart
 Young Academy of Scotland: Paracchini, Bowness, Ozakinci
 The ‘Acid Fast Club’ studying mycobacterial diseases –Sloan & Bowness.

 The following have honorary positions at other Universities:
 Baldacchino: Honorary Professor, Medical School, University of Dundee
 Crossman: Chief Scientist (Health) Scottish Government and Chief Scientist Office
 Sloan: “Professor in Residence” at Infectious Diseases Institute (IDI) at Makerere University in
 Kampala, Uganda IDI in January 2019
 Stewart: Honorary Guest Professor at North West Plateau Institute of Biology, Chinese
 Academy of Sciences, Xining, China
 Sullivan: Senior Research Fellow International Prevention Research Institute, Lyon
 Professor Department of Family and Community Medicine & Dalla Lana School of Public Health,
 Univ. Toronto
 Honorary Professor Medical School, University of Dundee
 Humphris: Visiting Professor, School of Medicine, Central Southern University, China
 McCowan: Honorary Professor at the Institute of Health & Wellbeing, University of Glasgow

 Contributions to the Economy
 These include the £15.8m artificial intelligence (AI) health research centre called iCAIRD (a pan-
 Scotland collaboration of 15 partners from across academia, the NHS, and industry led by
 Harrison). iCAIRD brings together researchers from the Schools of Computer Science and
 Medicine, with clinical (NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde health board) and industry (Philips)
 partners, to develop AI algorithms capable of diagnosing gynaecological biopsies to translate
 the research into a pathologist’s daily workflow. The Biophotonics suite with industrial
 partnerships (MSquared Lasers) allows access to bespoke and innovative imaging platforms
 including super-resolution microscopy (dSTORM), confocal, light sheet wide-field, multi-photon,
 micro-spectroscopic optical techniques, focussed ion beam scanning electron microscopy and
 correlated light and electron microscopy.

 Externally, the School has strong links with Industrial partners including Nanostring, Definiens,
 Indica Labs, Marine Harvest/Mowi, and MSquared lasers. In the medical imaging sector, iCAIRD
 directly links with Philips (digital pathology), Canon (radiology) and Glencoe software
 (developing solutions to allow the digital images and AI algorithms to become open source and
 platform agnostic). All academic staff have engaged in productive collaborations during the REF
 period with a range of universities, nationally and internationally. These collaborations have led
 to successful international and collaborative funding (e.g. British Heart Foundation, Leverhulme
 Trust, Innovate UK, Japan Society for Promotion of Science, Chinese Academy of Science).
 This international perspective is an essential element of facilitating the development of world-
 wide scientific partnerships and membership on international consortia (Neurodys, Psychiatric
 Genomics).

 Scottish Enterprise provided £388K for development of a high growth spin out company to
 manufacture and market rapid phenotypic susceptibility testing methodology (SLIC:Gillespie). In
 collaboration with the School of Mathematics and Statistics Lynch was awarded five
 ‘Statisticians in the Pharmaceutical Industry’ undergraduate prizes.

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Contributions to Society
 Crossman’s appointment as Scotland’s Chief Scientist (Health), Chair of the MRC/NIHR EME
 Board, which funds phase 2 clinical trials across the UK. He is a member of the MRC
 Translational research group. He is also currently a member of the BHF Chairs and Programme
 Grants committee. A reviewer of the NIHR Senior Investigator awards for the last 3 years and a
 REF2021 member of Main Panel A.

 Gillespie chaired a Royal Society of Edinburgh Working Group on the supply of medicines on
 which Sullivan was a member of the MRC/NIHR EME Board and is now a REF 2021 UoA1
 (Clinical Medicine) Panel Member and MRC Clinical Fellowships Panel. Sullivan has also
 contributed to an RSE Working Group on the future of Primary Care and a response to the
 Scottish Government’s Digital Strategy.

 Informing policy
 We have taken an active approach to connect with the UK and Scottish Governments and the
 research councils (chairing three grant panels and members on another nine) to help inform
 policy and shape the research landscape. The Dean (Crossman) is Scotland’s Chief Scientist
 for Medicine and several staff engage policymakers at a senior level e.g. during the COVID-19
 pandemic (Gillespie, Holden, Cevik).

 Public Engagement
 Our commitment to the funding and development of activities for knowledge exchange and
 impact through the Knowledge Exchange and Impact fund is seen through our Staff dedication
 to engaging with the wider non-academic communities and organisations including van
 Beusekom’s work on co-design (ILES, 2.3). In 2014 Sullivan won the Ian Stevenson Prize for
 Excellence in Public Engagement with Research in his role as Clinical Director of Scotland’s
 Health Research Register (SHARE). In 2017 the school initiated and funded a Patient and Public
 Involvement group with NHS Fife. This Fife Community Advisory Committee meets as a group
 twice a year to discuss current and planned research on patients and members of the public.
 Members of the group, and their wider contacts, are involved with the design of research
 involving patients at project initiation stage and join research teams during the conduct, analysis
 and dissemination phases. Exemplar activities of our wider non-academic engagement with
 research include: involvement with Cell Block Science (2018 Herald Education Partnership
 Award), running since 2015, a partnership to promote STEM (science, technology, engineering
 and mathematics) in Scottish prison learning centres. A number of our researchers work with
 charities in the UK and abroad (e.g. Italy and Hong Kong) and contribute to events such as Café
 Scientifique, Charity roadshows, Parliamentary receptions and other stakeholder events.
 Following participation to the Royal Society Westminster Pairing Scheme, one of our number
 (Parrachini) contributed to the development of a mirror pairing scheme at the Scottish
 Parliament. The school has also hosted a research event for Scottish politicians on behalf of the
 British Heart Foundation.
 The School has many staff and students involved in the delivery of Public Engagement at both
 national (Explorathon, Academics Go Wild, Young Archaeologist Club, Bioblitz, World of Work)
 and local (Primary School Science days, University’s Science Discovery Day) levels. Staff and
 students are actively involved in the University’s Access and Outreach initiatives including the
 First Chances Project and the Sutton Trust Summer School and REACH Scotland. Many
 members of staff are also involved in provision of cardiac resuscitation training to local
 communities.
 We also work with communities in East Africa on antimicrobial stewardship in HATUA and have
 contributed to the National Academy of Sciences report on Rwanda’s Human Resources for
 Health (HRH) Program to build the health education infrastructure and workforce necessary to
 create a high quality, sustainable healthcare system. We support regional and international
 education by providing online teaching resources which reach global audiences in the form of
 our infection group have developed two computer games with Abertay University‘ (“Sanitarium”
 and “Plague hospital”), which have gained international awards.


                                                                                            Page 18
