Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen’s University Belfast

 Unit of Assessment: 20

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Introductory synopsis

 The School of Social Sciences, Education and Social Work (SSESW) brings together academics
 from Criminology, Education, Social Policy, Social Work and Sociology around a core vision: to
 produce world-leading research and teaching that expands knowledge, informs policy and practice
 and makes a social difference locally, nationally and globally. We achieve this through a blend of
 policy-engaged, public- and professional-facing research, based on local connectedness and
 international reach.

 In addition to building on the strength of our core disciplines, we engage in interdisciplinary and
 cross-sectoral activity that addresses local and global challenges and promotes innovation in
 research agendas and methodologies. The multi-disciplinary nature of the School allows a wide
 diversity of interests to thrive, contributing to a creative intellectual climate in which research
 potential can be realised. Successfully managing a major School expansion in 2015, we have
 created a collegial environment that supports the development of colleagues at all stages of career
 development.

 As a key site for social science research in Northern Ireland (NI), a significant proportion of our
 activity relates to this particular political and historical context. We are committed to collaborative
 forms of knowledge exchange which ensure that our research is both relevant and accessible to
 a wide range of stakeholders across all communities and plays an important role in supporting a
 stable civic society. Our work also has influence well beyond the NI borders, with SSESW
 researchers recognized as global leaders in many strands of conflict-related research and
 peacebuilding. Likewise, our professional-facing research in criminology, social policy and social
 work is internationally ambitious and has influenced policy and practice in many areas including
 rehabilitation policy, social conflict and cohesion, children’s rights and wellbeing, and the Brexit
 border negotiations.

 Organisational structure, size and context

 The School of Social Sciences, Education and Social Work (SSESW) was established in 2015,
 following University-led restructuring that also, as part of Queen’s institutional Research Strategy
 2016-21, introduced a new ecosystem of Core Disciplinary Groups (CDGs), Pioneer Research
 Programmes (PRPs), and Global Research Institutes (GRIs).

 Our five CDGs submit to two REF Units of Assessment:
 Criminology
 Social Policy
                  UoA20
 Social Work
 Sociology
 Education        UoA23

 Reflecting the core strengths of the School our research is organised around five broad themes,
 each of which is the focus of an interdisciplinary research group (IRG):
     Children, young people and families: policy and practice
     Health, well-being and inclusion
     Crime and social justice
     Contested societies
     Education: advancing understanding, improving outcomes
     Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      In addition to these IRGs, the School supports a number of School-based Research Centres and
      Networks, and academic staff are actively involved in wider interdisciplinary University Networks
      and Institutes, chiefly:
            Access Research Knowledge (ARK)
            Centre for Children’s Rights (CCR)
            Drugs and Alcohol Research Network (DARN)
            Disability Research Network (DRN)
            Centre for Evidence and Social Innovation (CESI) – which includes The UK & Ireland
               Campbell Collaboration. CESI is one of the University’s Pioneer Research Programmes
               (PRP).
            The Senator George J. Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice (a Global
               Research Institute)

      All except the Mitchell Institute are led/co-led by a member of UoA20.

      As the new School structures have embedded, we have been able to build stronger links across
      the core disciplines, reflected in the School’s IRGs and wider networks noted above. This
      interdisciplinarity provides the rationale for bringing two previously separate UoA submissions
      (Social Work and Social Policy, UoA22 and Sociology, UoA23) together.

      UoA20 comprises 50 academic staff (47.2 FTE including independent researchers) and 16
      contract research staff.

      Research and impact strategy

      The overarching aim in REF 2014 for both submissions (former UoA22 and UoA23) was to
      continue to make significant contributions to policy and practice through rigorous, theory-informed
      applied research that builds on existing areas and expertise, addresses priorities identified by
      stakeholders and ourselves, and contributes to the intellectual underpinning of our disciplines.
      While the institutional landscape has changed since 2014, as indicated above, this broad aim has
      remained relevant and useful in driving our research.

      A number of core themes were identified across the REF 2014 submissions including: improving
      outcomes for children and young people; disability, mental health and wellbeing; how societies
      construct crime and punish offenders; societies emerging out of conflict; leadership in sociological
      methods; and interrogation of the theory and practice of applied research and the policy process.
      Since 2014, we have established and implemented sustainable plans to address our strategic
      aims. This has been achieved through consolidating the key themes outlined above through the
      IRGs, promoting disciplinary-based and interdisciplinary working, multi-sectoral engagement, and
      a commitment to enabling internationalisation. In line with a broad emphasis on improving
      outcomes, impact is a key purpose of our research and of our approach to social science more
      generally – and is reflected in the applied nature of research across all areas of the UoA. Impact
      is understood in terms of the ability of our research to affect and improve outcomes through
      practice-focused or theoretical insights and developments.

      Progress in each thematic area is outlined below.
i)
      Children, young people and families

      Building on aims identified in REF2014, research activity has been concentrated on improving
      outcomes for vulnerable individuals, families and communities, undertaking evaluations of
      services and interventions and developing practice near research.
      Research aimed at improving outcomes has included a focus on exploring the experiences of
      children in different forms of ‘out of home’ care (Kelly, MacDonald), building on work undertaken
      through the longitudinal Care Pathways and Outcomes study. International reach is reflected in
      Kelly‘s role as PI on a four-country feasibility study of leaving care in Africa, and MacDonald’s
      recent invitations to deliver public lectures on relational permanence in Australia. Bunting and
   Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Davidson have been Co-Is on the UK-wide Child Welfare Inequalities Project, undertaking
    secondary data analysis to highlight the associations between poverty and child
    protection/investigation rates. Findings have contributed directly to the development of the
    Northern Ireland Anti-Poverty Practice Framework (DOH 2018), now in use across the region.

    Improving outcomes also links to experience of family violence. While the identified research leads
    in the area of family violence have left QUB, activity has continued via effective new staff
    collaborations. For example, Pentaraki and McNamee collaborated with international academic
    partners and stakeholders to undertake a review of policies and practices regarding on-line
    counselling help for victims of domestic violence and designed and disseminated new resources.
    In relation to evaluation, Winter worked with colleagues from CESI and Oxford University to
    evaluate the effectiveness of a book gifting scheme on the reading outcomes for children in foster
    care. M. Duffy led a project that tested the feasibility of frontline childcare staff using a PTSD
    screening instrument and a randomized controlled trial to evaluate and compare the effectiveness
    of trauma focused cognitive therapy with interventions as usual for the treatment of PTSD in
    adolescents. Related research has focused on the development, use and evaluation of specific
    approaches within child and family social work, eg Building Better Futures (Montgomery), an
    evidence-based assessment model that has been integrated into mainstream practice throughout
    NI, Adverse Child Experiences (Bunting, Mooney), Signs of Safety (Hayes) and Trauma
    Informed Practice (Bunting).

    A practice-near, ethnographic approach was used in research undertaken by Winter (Co-I) as part
    of a 4-nation study exploring relationships and communication between social workers, children
    and families across the UK, with the aim of improving communication practices.

    In terms of developing areas of expertise, comparative social policy research focusing on family
    dynamics, and inequalities in relation to care, work and gender to improve outcomes (eg Ciccia,
    Sung) adds a significant new strength. In addition, work has been undertaken to develop the
    application of critical/social theories to aspects of social work practice and social policy.

ii) Health, well-being and inclusion

    In REF 2014, objectives included further development of existing strengths in theoretical work and
    development of the research base in relation to drug and alcohol use/misuse and mental health.
    We have achieved our aims and also developed new areas of enquiry with a particular focus on
    mental health and well-being of children, young people and adults; mental capacity; drug and
    alcohol use/misuse; immersive technologies and digital mental health; trauma-informed care and
    interventions.

    Significant work on mental health and mental capacity includes the first NI-wide prevalence study
    on children and young people’s mental health (PI: Bunting). Research led by Davidson has
    directly informed the development and implementation of the Mental Capacity Act (Northern
    Ireland) 2016, a new legal framework for assessing mental capacity (see Impact Case Study).
    Other significant studies have focused on health and social care professionals' practice with
    parents with mental illness, their children and families in NI (PI: Davidson), and the development
    and delivery of research-based trauma-informed interventions to address mental distress -
    particularly PTSD, a common legacy of the Troubles (M. Duffy).

    Pioneering research on the use of digital technologies in interventions to support mental health
    has attracted funding from the MRC (PI: Best), and the relationship between alcohol use/misuse
    and mental health problems has been explored through a rapid evidence review (PI: Campbell)
    designed to address gaps in knowledge and inform policy and practice for Alcohol Change UK.

    Crime and social justice

    The development of criminology as a research area was highlighted in the 2014 Environment
    Statement and the staff group has expanded accordingly. Shadd Maruna, recently ranked in the
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 top 25 of most-cited international scholars in criminology (Farrington et al., 2019), was appointed
 in 2018 to lead a team that now includes 8 criminologists. Research in this theme covers global
 and comparative areas relating to crime and social justice, with an emphasis on public criminology
 and high impact research. The School is recognised internationally for its contribution to work
 around prisons (Butler, Maruna), restorative justice (Butler, Topping, Maruna) and desistance
 from crime – a research area pioneered by Maruna. Combining all of this expertise, Butler and
 Maruna have built a theoretical and empirical case for the use of restorative justice in prisoner
 adjudication processes. Moreover, Butler (with Percy, Hayes and others) have received funding
 for both a feasibility study and a wider outcomes evaluation of the Family Matters Programme at
 HM Maghaberry Prison in Northern Ireland and Butler was seconded part-time to the Reducing
 Offending Directorate in the Department of Justice NI.

 We have also built considerable strengths in the study of policing and procedural justice. Topping
 has led a series of studies on police stop and search powers in Northern Ireland, including a policy
 briefing for the NI Assembly. International expertise and excellence is also demonstrated in
 relation to young people, including stigma and justice involvement (McAlister), gender and youth
 justice (Corr) and adolescent substance use and mental health (Percy). Research in this area
 also addresses the trans-generational impact of the NI conflict on young people.

 Contested societies

 Building on the 2014 submission, research under this theme has mainly focused on political
 sociology; peace and conflict; and the role of religion in different societal contexts.

 International dissemination, public engagement has been undertaken by Hayward, a leading
 expert on the topic of Brexit and its impact on Ireland, north and south, and the peace process.
 Her expertise has been acknowledged through the award of an Eisenhower Fellowship (2019).
 Brewer’s leadership in the field of post-conflict studies and peace processes is recognised in his
 membership of the United Nations Roster of Global Experts. Internationally recognised work within
 the broad area of peace and conflict has addressed the legacies of conflict in Northern Ireland, Sri
 Lanka and South Africa (Brewer, Gobodo-Madikizela), the psycho-emotional dimensions of
 conflict transformation (Brewer, Gobodo-Madikizela) and consequences of civil war and peace
 processes on LGBTQ populations (Nagle). The interface between social work and political conflict
 during the Troubles is addressed by J. Duffy.

 The sociology of religion, both on the island of Ireland, where it intersects with conflict and
 peacebuilding (Brewer, Ganiel) and sectarianism (Nagle), and internationally (Altglas) has been
 a fruitful area of study, resulting in two award-wining books (Altglas and Ganiel).

 Methodological development, application and innovation

 This final theme, highlighted in REF2014, is not linked to a specific IRG but runs across the work
 of the UoA. A wide variety of research methods are deployed across the UoA, with particular
 expertise and/or methodological development and innovation include:
      Rights-based and participatory approaches, integral to research funded under the DRILL
         scheme (Disability Research Network) and to the work of the Centre for Children’s Rights.
      Peer research and service user involvement. J. Duffy's research on service user
         involvement has had significant international reach and impact, evidenced through his
         Fulbright research award in 2018/19.
      Approaches to peace and conflict research, addressing the legal, moral and ethical issues
         in this area.
      Systematic Review methodology, building on the recognised expertise of the Campbell
         Collaboration based within CESI. We successfully bid for funding to build capacity in
         quantitative methods and have established a Q-Step Centre.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Methodological expertise is also recognised in the publication of a core textbook on Participatory
 Research Methods (Schubotz), and Ciccia’s Emma Goldman prize (2020) for exceptional rigour
 and methodological innovation in social policy.

 Objectives for 2021-2026:
     Grow and invest in emerging areas of research expertise in the School, e.g. the digital
        world; coping in a pandemic and post-pandemic world; social justice across the life-course;
        ageing and later life wellbeing; bereavement and palliative care.
     Maintain and enhance our foundational core disciplines while embedding a culture of
        interdisciplinarity and cross-disciplinary working to address real-world social problems and
        promote equality, rights and social justice
     Enhance and extend the international reach of our research through strategic partnerships
        and attracting global talent, and the use of global excellence in our research for local
        impact.
     Produce word-leading research, extending knowledge and understanding, informing policy
        and practice, and making a social difference locally, regionally and globally
     Extend our stakeholder networks through sustained partnership with communities, local
        and regional government to promote place-based approaches to address pressing social
        challenges.
     Through our work, further enhance the role of Queen’s as an anchor institution in our city
        and region, and work with other universities nationally and internationally that play the
        same anchor role in their own contexts.

 Interdisciplinary research (IDR)

 The School promotes interdisciplinarity through the IRGs outlined above and through its special
 interest networks and Centres, as well as its contribution to University wide Institutes, allowing
 UoA20 staff to collaborate across and beyond the School to address global challenges relating to
 our substantive interests in wellbeing, rights, social justice, conflict, and inequalities. A range of
 activities take place within IRGs and each develops its own programme, supported through the
 research strategy budget - including seminars, external speakers, reading groups - with the
 intention of sharing research and ideas, capacity building, and promoting collaborative and agile
 responses to policy and practice questions and related local and global challenges. Additional
 opportunities for interdisciplinary engagement are furnished by the special interest networks and
 Centres below.

 Access Research Knowledge (ARK) (Co-Director: Devine)

 ARK is Northern Ireland’s leading Social Policy Hub; based in SSESW, it is jointly run by Queen’s
 and Ulster Universities. ARK runs three annual public attitude surveys (adults, children, and young
 people). The survey data are used as key policy indicators by government, independent public
 bodies, and local councils. ARK members conduct innovative public engagement projects to
 translate social science research into publicly accessible information. ARK’s flagship round-table
 series enables key stakeholders to discuss important social policy issues under ‘Chatham House
 rules’ and contribute to the policy-making process. Publicly available Policy Briefs are produced
 for each event. The ARK Ageing Programme facilitates engagement between the age and
 academic sectors through pioneering inter-disciplinary research that will support lobbying and
 advocacy, and the sophisticated use of information and evidence by the age sector.

 Centre for Children’s Rights (CCR) (Co-Directors: Lundy (UoA23) and Byrne)

 CCR operates as a hub for research intended to better understand and improve children’s lives
 Activity focuses on substantive children’s rights issues, participation in decision-making and rights-
 based research methods, drawing on the internationally-recognised Lundy model of participation.
 Centre members are drawn from Criminology, Education, Social Policy, Social Work, Sociology
 and Law, and 11 of its 25 academic members are from UoA20. CCR provides an important space
 for members to work together on cross-cutting issues of international importance, e.g. a Council
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Europe project on the digital rights of disabled children and young people. Activity has also
 focused on other marginalised groups, including children in care and those who have experience
 of criminal justice systems. CCR members have developed and disseminated a global survey
 which will be used to ensure children’s voices are included in the response to COVID-19 and in
 future emergency and crisis situations. The Centre’s work has had direct impact on public policy,
 leading to the adoption of the Children’s Services Co-operation Act (2015) in Northern Ireland and
 informing the international debate on the implementation of children’s rights in law. The Centre
 regularly provides advice to international NGOs, government and public bodies

 Drug and Alcohol Research network (DARN) (Co-leads Campbell and Higgins)

 Established in 2015, DARN promotes national and international collaborative research, policy and
 practice in the drug and alcohol field, bringing together clinicians, practitioners and researchers
 from disciplines within QUB including social work, public policy, public health, education,
 economics, sociology, psychology, and law, and externally from psychiatry, pharmacy, nursing
 and specialist addiction practice; 5 members of UoA20 are affiliated to the Network. DARN also
 has links with prestigious international institutions. including Portland State University (PSU),
 Oregon Health Sciences University (OHSU) and the National Institute on Drug Abuse (US). DARN
 has built a reputation for rigorous academic research combined with responsiveness to practice
 need, and members have a record of successful grant capture from prestigious funders,
 e.g. NIHR, ESRC. Key projects include the ground-breaking longitudinal Belfast Youth
 Development Study, now in its 21st year, alongside work on emerging issues, e.g. new
 psychoactive substances. Findings are deployed through innovative partnerships with local and
 national public systems, relevant institutions, and programmes from the voluntary, private and
 statutory sectors.

 Disability Research Network (DRN) (Lead: Kelly)

 The DRN is an inter-disciplinary network enhancing collaboration between disabled people,
 academics, policymakers, practitioners and community and voluntary sector organisations.
 Started in 2013 by Byrne and Kelly, the DRN has approximately 40 core members within QUB
 including staff and PhD students from across all Faculties; 7 staff from UoA20 are members. With
 funding from a variety of sources – including Disability Research on Independent Living and
 Learning (DRILL), Health and Social Care Board NI and the Safeguarding Board NI - DRN
 members are involved in the co-production of a wide range of projects addressing disabled
 peoples’ experiences, giving voice to often unheard groups, and promoting the rights of disabled
 people.

 Centre for Evidence and Innovation (CESI) (Director: Higgins)

 CESI was created in 2015 and is unique within the School as a Pioneering Research programme
 (PRP). It has 130 affiliated members amongst academic and research staff and doctoral students
 from across the University; 17 UoA20 staff are members. Before becoming a PRP, CESI had built
 a sustained corpus of research, policy and practice expertise, connecting work across legacy
 centres (Centre for Effective Education and Institute of Child Care Research) and children’s
 research in the School of Nursing and Midwifery and Public Health (see REF 2014). Through its
 innovative work on randomised control trails, evidence synthesis and implementation capabilities,
 CESI has established strong, cross-disciplinary local working relationships, including with a range
 of challenged communities across Belfast, and with external stakeholders regionally, nationally
 and internationally.

 Our academic, policy and community connections enhance civic engagement which is also
 strengthened by our core commitment to address pressing social challenges through research
 that is focused on significant and demonstrable impact. CESI’s priorities are closely aligned with
 key challenges facing local and national government, reflecting our institutional priority to make a
 positive difference in society. CESI seeks to achieve positive social change by working
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaboratively to develop innovative and evidence-based interventions to improve outcomes for
 children, families and communities.

 CESI also hosts the first national centre of the International Campbell Collaboration (led by Miller,
 UoA23). This major initiative focuses on building research capacity in the production and use of
 systematic reviews and other forms of evidence synthesis and works with key stakeholders across
 the UK and Ireland to enhance the use of evidence in policy and practice.

 The Senator George Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice (Director: Donnan,
 UoA22)

 Established by the University in 2013 as an interdisciplinary and practice focused space for peace
 research, the Mitchell Institute facilitates collaboration across the University and with the Institute’s
 extensive network of international partners. The Institute is notably very practice focused,
 enabling UOA staff to link with practitioners, locally and globally, promoting international research
 excellence and real-world impacts at the interface of theory and praxis in peace studies. 11
 members of UoA20 are Fellows of the Institute and 4 are Associate Fellows. Research projects
 by UoA staff connected to the Mitchell Institute tend to be cross disciplinary, international in their
 collaborations and involve cross national comparative work. A key example for UoA20 is the
 collaboration between Brewer and Gobodo-Madikizela addressing intergenerational trauma in
 Rwanda, Northern Ireland and South Africa, building on the latter’s previous membership of the
 South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission and her internationally renowned work on
 healing traumatic memories.

 Support for an Open Research Environment in the research strategy

 The UoA adheres to Queen’s institutional Open Access Policy (OA). OA policy is administered by
 a Library-based team who work collaboratively with Research and Enterprise to provide support
 and monitor compliance with the policy. Training and guidance in relation to open access is
 provided by the Library and Research and Enterprise offer training in use of Pure. Staff and PGR
 students are able to avail of a range of inputs to ensure full understanding of the requirements of
 OA. University policy supports a commitment within UoA20 to make research findings and data
 sets (where appropriate) widely accessible. Indeed, the primary goal of ARK is to increase the
 accessibility and use of academic data and research.

 Research Integrity and ethics

 All research undertaken within the School, whether by academic staff, contract researchers or
 postgraduate research students aims to meet the highest ethical standards, and there are clear
 processes in place through the School’s Research Ethics Committee (SREC) to ensure that full
 ethical approval is sought for each piece of work. Academics across the School are engaged in
 ethical review processes under the leadership of the SREC Chair. The work of the SREC aligns
 with, and is accountable under, the wider University’s research governance policies.

 Within UoA20 research frequently addresses sensitive areas of individual and social life, so strict
 observance of ethical, legal and professional standards is of paramount importance at all times.
 Research with vulnerable groups, including those known to and/or in the care of social services
 and those in prison, and staff employed in those sectors must be assessed by the Office for
 Research Ethics Committees Northern Ireland (ORECNI). Furthermore, a regionally agreed
 protocol is in place that social work-related research must follow.

 2. People

 Summary overview and approach

 During this REF period, we have continued to focus on capacity building across the four Core
 Disciplines to strengthen the UoA and promote the School’s national and international research
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 activity. Enhancing strength and depth across each core area has been key to ensuring the vitality
 and sustainability of our research effort. Success is reflected in a strong record of recruitment,
 promotions, awards, and grant capture.

 Staffing profile and recruitment

 Staff are recruited for both their research and teaching expertise. There is a variety of academic
 contracts from Lecturer through to Professor and parallel paths to progression/promotion for those
 on Education and Teaching/Research contracts. Succession planning takes place through a blend
 of calls for expressions of interest for key academic leadership and management roles, by
 specialism, and management overview. Formal and informal mentoring takes place within the core
 disciplinary areas and the IRGs.

 In the period since the last REF, there have been some significant changes across the (combined
 former UoA22 and UoA23) staff group, with 15 staff leaving the University since 2014, 9 through
 retirement. Over the same period there has also been significant investment in the core disciplinary
 areas with 20 new staff joining the School. This has included four Chair appointments - in
 Criminology (Maruna), Social Work (Turney), Sociology (Nagle) and (Davidson) in May 2018 to
 the first Praxis Chair of Social Care, a research collaboration between QUB and Praxis Care.
 (Praxis is a major provider of services for adults and children with a learning disability, mental ill
 health, acquired brain injury and autism – and this post reflects the mental health expertise and
 contribution to development of local policy and practice provided to the sector by Davidson and
 other SSESW colleagues.) A further 17 new members of staff have been appointed across the
 Core Disciplines: Corr, Jankowitz and Topping (Criminology), Carney and Ciccia (Social
 Policy), Best, Maddock, Marshall, McCafferty, Mooney, Pentaraki, and Taylor-Beswick
 (Social Work), and Carabelli (temporary post to cover secondment of Hayward,) Ganiel, Heaney,
 McNamee, Moriarty and Vieten (Sociology). Overall, the UoA20 staff complement now stands at
 47.2 FTE.

 Staff development and career progression

 Staff development strategy aligns with University strategy for academic careers. All new staff are
 assigned mentors and complete a 3-year probation period in line with university guidelines. Each
 member of staff is supported to develop a clear research/publication plan supported by ringfenced
 research start-up funding of £4000. Appraisals (now Professional Development Reviews (PDR))
 are carried out each year for every member of staff and academics are expected and encouraged
 to complete suitable training as appropriate and in line with their own goals. The current PDR
 framework (introduced in 2019) understands objectives as steps in career planning, taking account
 of the full range of academic experiences (research, pedagogy, leadership). Staff have the option
 to choose their own mentor, and to nominate their PDR Reviewer from among the School’s senior
 staff. Queen's is committed to creating an environment in which employees feel recognised for
 their performance, contribution and accomplishment and a range of reward systems are in place
 eg the STAR (Staff recognition) Scheme, introduced in response to employee feedback.

 A significant number of academic staff across all Core Disciplines have achieved promotion in the
 current REF period, including: Bunting, Butler, Byrne, Campbell, Carney, Duffy, MacDonald,
 McAlister, Montgomery, Roulston, Schubotz, Sung, Topping (Lecturer to Senior Lecturer) and
 Hayward and Higgins (SL to Reader). Promotions have proved a positive mechanism to develop
 and retain staff – with the most recent promotions also (August 2020) significantly increasing the
 representation of women in senior positions: Ganiel achieved promotion to Reader and Hayward,
 Higgins, Kelly and Winter were promoted to Professor, alongside Miller (UoA23).

 The University has retained the European Commission's HR Excellence in Research Award which
 endorses the support provided for our research staff to develop their skills and career development
 opportunities and providing a clear plan of action for future developments.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Queen’s has a well-established Sabbatical Leave and Leave of Absence Policy (Academic Staff)
 that positions such leave as a key part of staff support and academic development. SSESW staff
 are eligible to apply for one semester’s sabbatical leave normally after completing 6 successive
 semesters in which they have made a full contribution to the School’s teaching and administration
 (pro rata for staff on part-time contracts). Academic staff are encouraged to apply for
 Research/Sabbatical leave where appropriate and the School follows the University policy
 mentioned above; information is disseminated to all staff by Head of School and via Research
 Committee, and the School facilitates sabbatical leave for up to 4 members of staff annually.
 During this period, 13 staff have had periods of 1 semester and 3 have had a full year of research
 leave, amounting to 19 semesters of institutional research support.

 Early career researchers and post-doctoral researchers

 Appointments include a mix of ECRs and experienced academics. It has been more common for
 academic entrants in social work to be people with established professional careers and high
 levels of practice experience, but who are relatively new to formal research activity. So as
 appropriate, new lecturers have been supported to undertake (e.g., Marshall, McCafferty) or
 complete (Maddock) doctoral level awards. Post-doctoral research awards during the current REF
 period include Marsh and Ciccia, both holders of prestigious Marie Sklodowska-Curie
 Fellowships. ECR and Post-Doctoral Researchers are fully included in the School’s research
 culture and all Education staff and contract research staff are part of the IRGs and included in all
 research activities other than REF reading groups. Additional measures to promote career
 development include:
      Regular research seminars and events to engage with the community; ECR colleagues
         are particularly encouraged to participate in the School’s weekly online ’30 minutes with’
         seminar series.
      A strategic approach to grant capture that promotes, where appropriate, the relevance of
         ‘smaller grants’ as stepping-stones to larger grants and targets emerging opportunities for
         staff.
      Strategic engagement of ECRs in larger research teams to enhance their profile, build
         skills and knowledge, and ensure inclusion in publication authorship.
      Dedicated School research funds are available to support networking and conference
         attendance for ECRs.

 The University is a signatory of the ‘Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers’ and, as noted above, holds the EU HR Excellence in Research Award. All contract
 researchers are guaranteed 10 annual development days and benefit from a ‘Researcher
 Development Framework’. Contract researchers are encouraged to attend School Board and
 Away Day meetings and contribute to seminar programmes across the School. A Faculty-level
 Researcher Society was established in 2019, with funding from Faculty to support training, talks
 and related activities.

 Procedures to encourage and facilitate links beyond higher education are established by the
 School’s Impact Champion (Dunne UoA23), through IRGs, and Centre and Network connections
 with local government institutions/charities and business contacts and via academics who sit on
 external boards, panels and committees. Links with an extensive range of bodies outside higher
 education are discussed in more detail in section 4, below.

 Postgraduate research students (PGRs)

 A new University Graduate School opened in 2015 and provides an academic and social hub for
 students across all disciplines, creating a space for inter-disciplinarity, and fostering links with
 mentors, leaders, and employers within the university and beyond. The Post Graduate
 Development Programme run by the Graduate School provides students with access to training
 programmes in writing and research methods as well as personal development, leadership and
 employability programmes. The Graduate School. Supplementary bespoke training is provided
 by the School to PGRs.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 At School level, graduate education is overseen by a Director of Postgraduate Research Studies
 and Director of Postgraduate Taught Studies. PGR students are assigned two supervisors at
 registration: a principal supervisor who has successfully supervised to completion and a second
 supervisor, who is often an early career staff member, to foster the development of supervisory
 capacity. A Supervisory Forum was established in 2018. Chaired by the Director of Graduate
 Studies, it aims to support supervisors by offering guidance on regulation and providing a space
 for discussing and clarifying the supervisory process.

 Under the new School structure, the professional doctoral programmes (D. Child and Ed.D) have
 been consolidated into an Integrated PhD which launched in 2020. This new programme is
 designed to retain the depth and rigour of a traditional research degree but incorporates a greater
 focus on training. We anticipate this will provide a supportive route for experienced practitioners,
 amongst others, who wish to avail of doctoral level study, boosting our links with external stake
 holders and promoting direct links between research and practice. Between 2008- 2014, 52
 doctoral students successfully completed. In the current REF period, 68.73 research doctoral
 degrees were awarded across the PhD and professional doctorate programmes.

 The School promotes recruitment of doctoral students in a variety of ways, including showcasing
 research strengths and projects on our website and making staff profiles accessible to show the
 range of interests, expertise and supervisory capacity of staff. In addition, Masters students are
 kept informed of relevant seminars and study opportunities. Regular Open Days and information
 sessions are organised and widely publicised. PGR students are funded from a variety of sources.
 Including the ESRC-funded Northern Ireland and North East (NINE) Doctoral Training Partnership
 (Queen’s is a founder member of tis DTP); the Department for the Economy; overseas government
 agencies; and SPaRK, a Horizon2020 funded Marie Skłodowska-Curie doctoral training
 programme, supporting 20 interdisciplinary PhD students across all three of Queen’s Faculties.
 Students are allocated an academic supervisor and one from a non-HEI partner in a connected
 area of work. SSESW currently supports one international SPaRK student working in partnership
 with Women’s Aid.

 All doctoral students are offered office accommodation and computing facilities. All have Annual
 Progress Reviews and are expected to meet regularly with their supervisory team. When available,
 School teaching or research opportunities or Faculty careers contacts are identified. A number of
 students from SSESW actively engage in organising School conferences and an annual All-Ireland
 doctoral conference. Students are also encouraged to organise, attend, and present at seminars
 within the School and at external events and conferences.

 A successful application was submitted to the British Council and the South African Department
 of Higher Education and Training (DHET) by Belluigi and Elwood (UoA23) and Turney (UoA20)
 for a doctoral training partnership between Rhodes University (lead), University of Fort Hare and
 QUB to support doctoral capacity building in higher education in the Eastern Cape. The award
 was approved in December 2019 and work Is currently underway on setting up the project to
 enable a cohort of up to 10 South African academics in the fields of Education or Social Work to
 commence doctoral studies in January 2022.

 Equality and Diversity

 Queen’s has a well-developed Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Policy (see Institutional
 Environment Statement, 3d) that forms part of the formal contract of employment for staff. Training
 is a requirement for all staff involved in recruitment. Recruitment panels must be balanced in terms
 of gender and religious affiliation. There are identified grievance procedures to deal with
 discrimination, harassment or victimisation. Staff can request variation of contract for reasons of
 work-life balance (including caring responsibilities).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Queen’s Gender Initiative is a long-standing commitment to provide networking opportunities
 and support for promotion opportunities for women academics. QUB also supports female staff to
 access the AURORA leadership development programme (Advance HE).

                                     Table 1: UoA20 Staff profile

             Professor     Reader      Senior Lecturer         Lecturer /             All
                                         Researcher           Researcher
  Female          7           1              13                    9                  30
  Male            5           0               6                    8                  19
  All            12           1              19                   17                  49
                                                                                  (47.2 FTE)

 Other policies outline the University’s commitment to promoting EDI: for example, the Disability
 Action Plan promotes positive attitudes towards, and encourages participation from, disabled staff
 and students. The Trans Equality Policy, launched in 2016, won a 2019 Universities HR Award for
 its work to provide equality for those who identify as transgender or transsexual. In 2018 Queen’s
 established PRISM as our LGBT+ network for staff to provide a safe, inclusive and welcoming
 space for staff, promote LGBT+ equality across the campus and inform University policy. PRISM
 won the Best LGBT+ Initiative at the 2019 NI Equality and Diversity Awards. In 2019 iRise was
 established as a network for BAME and International Staff. In addition to providing networking
 opportunities, and advice and support on issues such as visa arrangements, iRise helps to
 influence University policy on inclusion.

 Career pathways for part-time and fixed-term staff are managed though the main University PDR
 and promotion processes. Where possible, the School recruits internally and actively seeks to
 promote staff to senior positions. Support for those with caring responsibilities, ill-health, returning
 from periods of leave is addressed through School and/or Faculty SWAN policies. The School
 achieved the Bronze award in 2016 and re-applied in 2020 (outcome pending). AHSS and SSESW
 allow all staff returning from Maternity leave or from a lengthy period of illness a teaching free
 semester – this is specific to our Faculty and School SWAN policies. Flexible working policies are
 also available. We operate a reasonable working hours’ policy, whereby meetings are held (as far
 as possible) between 10am and 4pm to help staff with parental/caring responsibility, and the
 designation of research-only days for all staff provides protected time.

 SSESW has a Wellbeing team and staff are encouraged to use this resource. Updates on
 University activities for wellbeing are circulated regularly. The University and School’s commitment
 to staff and student wellbeing is further reflected in the response to COVID19: staff were explicitly
 encouraged to prioritise family commitments where required, and short ‘work pauses’ were
 introduced in July and December 2020 where all staff were encouraged to suspend online School
 activity to enable a period of mental and physical rest.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Overview of research grants/income and strategies for funding

 In this REF period, the UoA has successfully bid for funding from a wide range of sources including
 UK Research Councils and like funding bodies, UK-based charities (open competitive process),
 UK central government, local authorities, and health and hospital authorities, resulting in a total
 research income of £13,235,975. This represents a modest overall increase over the previous
 REF period despite significant constraints on many funding sources. Drawing on these different
 funding streams has enabled us to maintain a strong ‘mixed portfolio’ to support engaged research
 that has local, national and international reach.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The profile of research income for the two periods is shown below.

                    Table 2: Research income profile - REF2014 and REF2021

                                                   REF 2014               REF 2021
                                                Research income        Research income
                                                 profile in £ (%)        profile £ (%)
                                                    2008-13                2013-19
   BEIS Research Councils, The Royal
                                                     3,396,250             2,000,359
   Society, British Academy and The
                                                       (27%)                 (15%)
   Royal Society of Edinburgh
   UK central government bodies/local
                                                     6,761,672             7,959,850
   authorities, health and hospital
                                                       (54%)                 (60%)
   authorities
   UK-based charities (open competitive              1,165,400             2,930,036
   process)                                             (9%)                 (22%)
   EU government bodies                               735,676               242,715
                                                         6%                   (2%)
   Other sources                                      540,303
                                                                            £103,015
                                                        (4%)
                                                                              (1%)
   TOTAL                                           £12,599,851            £13,235,975
                                                     (100%)                 (100%)

 Many awards are characterised by interdisciplinary research teams working with external partners
 and stakeholders to develop and test interventions that seek to improve social, educational and
 health outcomes among children, families and local communities. The IRGs, CESI, CCR, DARN
 and DRN have proved to be very effective ‘umbrella’ groups, for the incubation of research ideas
 and subsequent translation to funding applications, with members attracting substantial grant
 income overall from funders in their respective fields. Continuing the successful trajectory since
 its inception in 2000, ARK consistently attracts funding from a range of funders including the
 ESRC, the AHRC; the EU; and the Executive Office/Office of the First Minister and Deputy First
 Minister.

 Large scale funding (over £200K) in this REF period includes awards from: Health and Social Care
 Board (£811,010); HSC R&D Office: (£755,797); ESRC: (£490,817); NIHR: (£352,627); Atlantic
 Philanthropies NI: (£297,378); NSPCC/ESRC (£264,283); Praxis Care: (£250,000); DFE
 (£241,292); EU COST Networking Grant (c €500,000). Staff have also held smaller awards from
 a range of UK and European funding bodies as PI or Co-I, including MRC, ESRC, NIHR, Nuffield,
 AHRC, the British Academy and the Newton Fund; European Commission (Non-framework
 projects). Funding was also awarded by national charitable bodies e.g., Big Lottery; NSPCC;
 Alcohol Research UK; Dementia UK; Wellcome (Seed Funding); and Forces in Mind Trust; and
 regional charities.

 A priority across the UoA is to make a positive contribution to society through our research, and a
 range of NI funders draw extensively on Queen’s academics for locally-informed research
 addressing practice and policy concerns, with awards from strategic bodies including Public Health
 Agency NI; DfE-GCRF; other DfE awards; Department of Health; NI Executive Office (formerly
 OFMDFM); Dept for Communities; NI Dept of Health: Department for the Economy. Work across
 the island of Ireland has been funded by Department of Foreign Affairs, ROI. Some of these
 partnerships have led to relatively modest external grants, however the sum of such awards may
 not reflect their strategic significance and we value the contribution and impact we can achieve
 through local engagement and addressing significant local issues.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Organisational infrastructure and support for research and impact

 We have a small, focused and effective research leadership team that is committed to embedding
 our strategy, and a vibrant interdisciplinary research culture that is operationalised through:
      Workshops, seminars, dissemination events organised and ‘badged’ by IRGs, Centres and
         Networks
      A clear, coherent and engaging web-presence
      A programme of School workshops targeted primarily at ECRs to build capacity in, for
         example, writing and reviewing for publication, networking and applying for peer reviewed
         funding
      Strategic use of the research budget to enable international engagement with research
         partners and global dissemination of research output.

 As outlined, our research base depends on the vitality of our core disciplines; each CDG is
 supported by a Subject Lead who sits on the School Research Committee and also contributes to
 specific discussions at School Management Board. While interdisciplinary working was already
 underway particularly in relation to policies and interventions impacting on the lives of children and
 young people, the establishment of the School of Social Sciences, Education and Social Work
 provided new opportunity to build on and extend this. An extensive consultation process involving
 all research staff in the School identified the five broad themes that became the focus of the IRGs.
 Each IRG is responsible for developing a programme of activity, taking forward an interdisciplinary
 agenda alongside the Centres and Networks previously listed, and these serve as focal points for
 areas of research strength. Additionally, whole school Research Away Days provide opportunities
 to review strategy and to share research developments across core disciplines.

 Within the UoA, staff were able to make an agile response to the new and unexpected demands
 of Covid-19, utilising funding opportunities internally (SSESW Research budget, ESRC Impact
 Accelerator Account) and externally (Health and Social Care Research and Development Division
 for Northern Ireland, Wellcome Trust) to address emerging issues, particularly in relation to mental
 health and well-being.

 As noted, new staff are supported through provision of generous start-up funding to facilitate their
 research plans. For some time, the School has supported a ‘meet new colleagues’ series providing
 an excellent opportunity to bring colleagues together for informal information sharing about
 research activity. Building on the success of these opportunities and to promote research
 connectivity between staff during the pandemic, we introduced a weekly “30 Minutes with …”
 series involving short online presentation and Q&A sessions open to all academic staff and PGR
 students. All staff and students are also encouraged to avail of the wide range of seminars and
 other research-related events organised by the Research Centres/Networks across the School
 and the wider University community. ‘Open’ events such as the seminar series to celebrate ARK’s
 20th anniversary, typically attract a wide audience across and outwith the University.

 Impact is an institutional priority, as is outlined in the Institutional Environment Statement, the
 Engaged Research Strategy and the University’s Social Charter, an institutional statement of
 commitment to making a positive difference to society. Activity across the UoA based on
 engagement with practitioners, policymakers and others working to promote social change
 connects directly and fundamentally to the goals of the Social Charter. A range of approaches to
 research impact have been adopted: in addition to the work undertaken by the School’s Impact
 Champion, support is also readily available through QUB’s research impact team, based within
 the Research and Enterprise Directorate. It supports researchers in identifying impact
 opportunities and works directly with staff to identify relevant impact and then to collate and
 monitor evidence of research impact. The University-wide Public Engagement Office also supports
 public engagement activities and helps to publicise successful impact.

 As noted elsewhere in this Statement, the impact of our research is visible in a number of ways.
 The four impact case studies illustrate key aspects of our approach to public engagement and
 impact across the UoA. Additionally, public engagement and impact is developed through a
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 culture of openness with research findings, active processes of dissemination and support for a
 variety of stakeholders to enable direct application of best evidence to enhance social and welfare
 policy and practice. Staff use podcasts, blogs, vlogs, and contribute to radio, television and social
 media - including the award-winning news and opinion portal, Slugger O’Toole which takes a
 critical look at politics in Ireland and Britain. We contribute to the QPol blog and podcast series,
 and have links with Pivotal, Northern Ireland’s only Think Tank. Research findings and information
 have been disseminated through the ESRC Knowledge Exchange Seminars held in conjunction
 with the Northern Ireland Assembly, and local professional journals such as NI Agenda. Queen’s
 is a foundation subscriber to The Conversation and regular training and briefing sessions are held
 with Conversation staff to encourage contributions.

 Operational infrastructure, facilities and specialist equipment

 At University level, as outlined in the Institutional Environment Statement (Section 4b),
 professional support for research is provided both through a dedicated Research and Enterprise
 division and through the wider Professional Services sector. Advice and support are readily
 available to individual researchers to facilitate preparation of high-quality funding applications and
 successful delivery of awarded projects. Again, as noted, staff have access to a range of internal
 funding streams to support their work at all stages of the ‘research life cycle’, and SSESW staff
 work closely with colleagues in the Research and Enterprise Directorate to maximise grant
 capture, deliver fully on all awards, and promote impact – for example, through successful
 applications for awards from the ESRC-funded Impact Accelerator Account. The School’s
 research activity and environment is supported by a Postgraduate Research Administrator,
 Research Administrator, 3 Postgraduate Research Support staff and 2 Research Support
 Secretaries.

 Facilities

 The School is housed across a number of buildings on the main Queen’s campus. As noted earlier,
 all doctoral students within SSESW have access to dedicated office accommodation, social space
 including kitchen, computing facilities and access to shared printing. In addition to the facilities
 offered within the School, PGR students also have access to the University’s Graduate School
 which operates as an interdisciplinary postgraduate hub offering fully accessible space with well-
 equipped teaching and group study rooms, a silent study area and different social spaces to
 support collaborations and intellectual exchange. Students can create tailored programmes from
 a range of high quality trans-disciplinary training resources to meet their individual development
 needs.

 Specialist research infrastructure and facilities

 CESI has developed its work to enable it to function as a large, interdisciplinary hub for
 researchers across and beyond the University. It has recently moved into newly refurbished
 premises that offer a dedicated social science ‘space’ including rooms equipped with two-way
 mirrors to undertake research observations of therapeutic interventions.

 The Immersive Technologies and Digital Mental Health Suite in 6 College Park was chiefly
 funded via an MRC Proximity to Discovery Award (P2D). This has been designed as a
 transdisciplinary space where researchers across SSESW, AEL and Nursing and Midwifery can
 access the latest equipment to explore the potential use of immersive technology for mental
 health therapy and also develop new teaching content. Facilities exist to enable staff to develop
 their own bespoke immersive 360 video content. The P2D award also encourages external
 partnerships and thus the suite is a collaborative space for key external stakeholders working (or
 interested) in the area of immersive technology and digital mental health. A key aim is to develop
 the immersive suite into an interdisciplinary clinical space where work can be undertaken with
 external partners (mainly health and social care providers) to conduct research trials to test the
 effectiveness of emerging digital technologies.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Summary of collaboration and wider contribution

 Research across SSESW is driven by a commitment to making positive changes to people’s lives.
 Underpinning and informing our professional-facing and public policy-facing activities are our
 strong collaborative networks and relationships with a range of stakeholders who help shape what
 we do and how we do it. Our efforts are supported through structures that, since 2014, have
 enabled purposeful internal, national and international networks and partnerships to further
 flourish.

 Our work demonstrates both local connection and impact, and international reach. For example,
 from our positioning in a divided and/or post-conflict society, we have both forged strong
 connections with local communities, politicians and policy makers and simultaneously established
 connections with academics and other stakeholders in other post-conflict societies including
 Lebanon, South Africa and Syria. In other research areas, as reflected in our impact case studies,
 our work is characterised by its dual emphasis on local connectedness and global reach. We have
 reciprocal relationships with a broad range of key national and international stakeholders including
 academics, policy makers, professionals and users of services, government bodies, NGOs, and
 charities. Effective collaborations have been built in America, Argentina, Australia, Brazil, China,
 Colombia, South Africa, Uganda, Vietnam, and we are active in developing new links that build on
 existing research strengths.

 Our embedded connections have enabled us to be responsive to national and international
 priorities: for example, we have an established reputation for collaborative research focused on
 enabling repair in divided societies, addressing issues of crime, desistance and social justice,
 supporting the wellbeing of children in out-of-home care, and promoting mental health and
 wellbeing. Latterly, researchers within the UoA have been quick to respond to the unprecedented
 impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic on mental health and wellbeing.

 Academic collaborations and contribution to wider academic community

 Internal academic collaborations

 In order to respond effectively to multifaceted societal challenges including poverty, impacts of
 criminalisation, and ageing and dementia, colleagues are engaged in cross-Faculty
 multidisciplinary projects to develop nuanced understandings and responses to complex social
 issues, eg:
      Bunting (PI, social work) collaborated with Grant (nursing), McBride (psychology) and
         Mulholland (psychiatry) on the first NI-wide prevalence study of mental health in youth.
      Percy (PI, criminology) is collaborating with Butler (criminology), Lohan and Lynn
         (nursing), Clarke (medicine) and Hayes (social work) on a prison programme for families.
      Carney (social policy) is collaborating with Lugea (Arts, English and Languages) on a
         project focused on dementia awareness.

 National and international academic collaborations

 Since 2014, and reflecting the emphasis on research that addresses complex social problems with
 multi-institutional teams of experts, we have expanded our collaborations with academics in other
 institutions nationally and internationally to develop research projects that address shared social
 problems, as indicated in successful grant applications with Sussex, Edinburgh, Cardiff, Sheffield,
 Coventry, Ulster, Oxford, Nottingham Trent, Liverpool, Bristol, Trinity College Dublin. McAlister,
 Pentaraki, Topping and Winter have also collaborated with universities in Belgium, Germany,
 Austria, Spain, Norway, Romania and Estonia on successful EU grant awards. MacDonald,
 Pinkerton, Kelly, Montgomery, Campbell, Davidson, Maddock, Marshall have developed
 collaborative relationships in South Africa and Cambodia under the Global Challenges Research
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fund (GCRF) and Brewer’s collaboration with Professor Gobodo-Madikizela (Stellenbosch
 University) adds to the understandings being developed regarding divided societies.

 Colleagues have also shared their expertise to improve knowledge and practice through reciprocal
 international collaborations. For example, J. Duffy is collaborating with New York University and
 Belmont University on developing service user involvement and Carney has collaborated with
 Paul Nash at University of Southern California to publish Critical Questions for Ageing Societies
 (nominated for an award by the Gerontological Society of America). In other international
 collaborations, the School hosts visiting scholars including: Professor Barbra Teater (The City
 University of New York), Professor Kaori Tsukazaki (Vice President, National Institute of
 Technology, Kagoshima College, Japan), Iris Elliot (Irish Human Rights and Equality
 Commission) and visiting research fellows from the Universities of Helsinki and Johannesburg.
 The ARK Ageing Project has also supported a successful Visiting Fellows programme, hosting a
 range of national and international researchers.

 Contribution to core disciplines

 Colleagues have leading roles on key journals in their fields. In sociology Nagle and Smyth, are
 co-editors-in-chief, Irish Journal of Sociology, Vieten is co-editor-in- chief, European Journal of
 Cultural and Political Sociology and Altglas has been editor of Social Compass. In social work,
 Campbell is editor of the journal Adolescents. In criminology, Maruna is co-editor of Punishment
 and Society. Colleagues also serve on the editorial boards of a wide range of internationally
 renowned journals across our core disciplines. Brewer is editor of the Palgrave Studies in
 Compromise after Conflict series and co-edits Public Sociology (Policy Press). Maruna is the
 editor of the series Psychology of Crime and Justice (American Psychological Association Books).
 With colleagues from Cambridge and Edinburgh, Maruna assumed editorship over the Oxford
 Handbook of Criminology.

 In external academic-related leadership roles, Smyth is a member of the Executive Committee,
 Irish Sociological Association, Altglas is General Secretary, International Society for the Sociology
 of Religion and Heaney runs the European Sociological Association’s Research Network on
 Emotions. Carney has served on the Executive Committee, British Society of Gerontology. Winter
 sits on the Board, European Social Work Research Association. Turney sits on the Partnership
 Board, Research in Practice and Percy sits on the Interdisciplinary Committee, Society for
 Research on Adolescence.

 Invited lectures and seminars to academic audiences

 Contributions to academic communities within our core disciplines are made through invited
 presentations, keynotes and seminars at national and international events. Examples include
 Maruna’s presentations at over thirty universities in the UK, Europe and US, including Princeton,
 NYU and Cornell; Brewer’s invited talks in France, Austria, South Africa and Switzerland;
 Carney’s presentation at the Leonard Davis School of Gerontology, University of Southern
 California. MacDonald and Byrne have presented research in Australia and Winter has delivered
 invited lectures and seminars to academic colleagues in Vietnam and Canada.

 Membership of peer review panels

 Degenhardt is a reviewer for the Slovenian Research Agency and the US National Science
 Foundation. Heaney contributes to the ESRC Peer Review College. Nagle is a reviewer for the
 Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada, the European Research Council
 and has been a member of the International Board for the Irish Research Council. Sung has been
 an Academic Advisor for the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission, and Winter is a panel
 member of Wales Health and Care Research Wales fellowship Awards and has been an invited
 assessor of EU COST Action applications.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fellowships, prizes and awards

 The strength of our contribution to our disciplines is recognised through numerous fellowships,
 awards and prizes. Brewer has been appointed Honorary Professor Extraordinary, Stellenbosch
 University (2017- date) and is also a member of United Nations Roster of Global Experts. He is a
 member of the Royal Irish Academy, Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, and a Fellow in
 the Academy of Social Science. He is also Honorary Life Vice-President of the British Sociological
 Association. Hayward was named as an Island of Ireland Fellow by the 2019 Eisenhower
 Fellowships. She also holds an ESRC Senior Fellowship (2017-2021) and won the Policy Studies
 Association award of Political Commentator of the Year in 2019. Degenhardt received a Visiting
 Scholar Award, University of California-Berkeley, was a Visiting Scholar at the University of
 Hamburg Institute for Social Research in 2018. Topping has received a British Academy
 Advanced Newton Fellowship and Sung received an award from the British Academy and Newton
 Fund Reciprocal Scheme, for a visiting scholarship at Fudan University in Shanghai. J Duffy was
 awarded a US-UK Fulbright All Disciplines Scholar Award (2018-2019) and Campbell has been
 awarded a lifetime fellowship with Oregon Health Sciences University.

 Engagement with non-academic communities

 Since 2014, the School has strengthened and increased its engagement with a wide range of non-
 academic stakeholders including the Northern Ireland Executive, local government departments
 (including the Departments of Education, Health, Justice, the Economy and the Department for
 Communities), key organisations (including the NI Prison Service, the five Health and Social Care
 Trusts, the Police Service NI, the Health and Social Care Board, the Public Health Agency, the
 Probation Service, the Youth Justice Agency, the NI Commissioner for Children and Young People
 and the NI Social Care Council), and key voluntary organisations (including Extern, Fostering
 Network Northern Ireland, NSPCC, Disability Action NI, Mencap, Praxis Care, WAVE, Victim
 Support, Voice of Young People in Care (VOYPIC), Nexus, Youth Action NI, Ascert, the
 Safeguarding Board Northern Ireland). The Social Work departments at Queen’s and Ulster
 University collaborated in developing the NI Social Work Research and Continuous Improvement
 Strategy 2015-2020 and are harmonising the university contribution to the 2020-2025 Strategy
 which focuses on areas such as identification of the research needs of the social work service;
 building supportive networks between service provides and academia to facilitate research and
 build a research culture in the profession.

 Schubotz, Carney, McAlister, Devine, Butler, Bunting, Davidson, Montgomery, Kelly and
 Topping contributed to the Knowledge Exchange Seminar Series (KESS). Hayward has given
 written and oral evidence before several parliamentary committees in both the UK and the
 Republic of Ireland and Maruna and Winter have presented evidence at select committees. Sung
 has also been an invited member of the All-Party Assembly Working Group on Early Education
 and Childcare in Northern Ireland. McNamee, Hayward, Topping, Smyth, Carney have shared
 research findings to non-academic audiences at events hosted by the annual Northern Ireland
 ESRC Festival of Social Science. Hayes, Marshall, J. Duffy, Winter, and Campbell have
 presented their research findings to practitioners at the Northern Ireland Social Care Council
 lunchtime seminar series and to the NI branch of the British Association of Social Workers.

 Colleagues have hosted a range of events, for example the Disability Research Network hosts
 events facilitating cross-sectoral conversations on key themes - most recently, an event on
 inclusive education in NI, from which an inclusive education working group has been established.
 Queen’s University hosted the European Forum on Restorative Justice in June 2014 bringing over
 300 academics and practitioners to campus in which Maruna was an organiser and the plenary
 speaker. Byrne hosted the 2019 conference which celebrated the 30th anniversary UNCRC and
 most recently in 2020, hosted and delivered a keynote speech at the conference on COVID 19
 and children’s rights research.

 Colleagues have also been invited to deliver keynote presentations and lectures at numerous
 regional, national and international conferences and events for practitioners and professional
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 groups. For example, Maruna spoke at the Parole Board of England and Wales Annual
 Conference, the International Corrections and Prisons Association Annual Meeting in Buenos
 Aires and the Martin Tansey Memorial Lecture in Dublin, delivered talks to practitioner groups
 within the prison/probation services in the UK and led a two-day workshop for the Board of Parole
 Hearings for the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation. MacDonald and Taylor-
 Beswick recently gave keynote presentations in Sydney and Berlin, respectively; Winter has
 been an invited speaker in India and Italy, and Turney has presented keynotes or invited guest
 lectures at a wide range of UK-based social work management and practice conferences. Sung
 was an invited speaker at the Childcare for All Conference in 2019.

 Wider impact on non-academic world and communities

 Our research aims to make a difference to and improve outcomes for individuals and communities
 locally, nationally and internationally, and the drive to ensure the widest access to, and potential
 impact of, high quality research knowledge is reflected in the range of community and public
 service roles undertake by colleagues within each of our core disciplines.

 For example, Criminology team members serve on numerous committees for international
 organisations. Maruna is the Regional Chair of the British Society of Criminology for Northern
 Ireland. Topping is Chairperson of the Board of Directors of Community Restorative Justice
 Ireland (CRJI) and was a Trustee for the Northern Ireland Association for the Care and
 Resettlement of Offenders (NIACRO). Topping was also an Appointed Member of the Police
 Service of Northern Ireland’s Evidence-based Policing Group and the Executive Board for the
 Committee on the Administration of Justice (CAJ). Butler is on the Steering Group for the Irish
 Prison Service Review of Incentivised Regimes, an advisor to the Irish Prison Service, and a
 Member of the Forensic Managed Care Network. McAlister is a Board Member for the Youth
 Justice New Foundations Group, Critical Youth Research Hub, and the Stop Attacks Forum, and
 is an Advisor to the charity “Strive”. Corr is a member of the Working Group on Qualitative
 Research Methodologies for the European Society of Criminology and a part of the Domestic
 Homicide Community of Practice. Corr and McAlister are Members of the Thematic Working
 Group on Juvenile Justice for the European Society of Criminology. Percy is Vice Chair of the
 Board of Directors of ASCERT (Alcohol and Drugs Prevention Charity). Maruna organised and
 chaired an academic Secretary of State’s Strategy Roundtable on International Approaches to
 Prisoner Rehabilitation (2015) and was an invited contributor to David Lammy MP’s Independent
 Review of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) Representation in the Criminal Justice
 System. Maruna is a trustee of the charity User Voice, a Patron of the ex-prisoner charity
 UNLOCK, and an Appointed Panel Member for the HM Prison and Probation Service’s
 Correctional Services Advice and Accreditation Panel for England and Wales.

 In social work, Campbell is an invited member of the UK Government Advisory Council on the
 Misuse of Drugs (ACMD); she is also Co-Chair of the ACMD Recovery Committee, and a member
 of the ACMD Rescheduling of Medicinal Cannabis Committee and its NPS Committee. Higgins
 is a member of the ACMD Young Persons and Drug Working Group. Turney sits on the Neglect
 Sub-Committee of the Safeguarding Board Northern Ireland. M. Duffy was invited to become a
 founding member of the newly formed UK Trauma Council. Winter has served 5-year terms as a
 Board member and Chair of the Social Care Governance Committee of the Northern Ireland
 Guardian Ad Litem Agency and as Chair of the Fostering Network NI Advisory Committee. In
 social policy, Carney was elected as UK representative to Age Platform Europe (2018- 2019) and
 authored the British Society of Gerontology submission to World Health Organisation Draft Impact
 Statement 2019-2023.

 In sociology, Leonard has worked with policy makers across Ireland as Director of an annual
 residential summer school offering a sociological approach to social policy problems in Ireland;
 she has worked closely with members up to ministerial level in the Department for Communities
 (NI) and the Department of Employment and Social Protection (ROI). Nagle has been a board
 member for the Carnegie Trust and Ganiel is on the Board and organising committee of the 4
 Corners Festival, an annual festival that encourages people to cross geographical and mental
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 boundaries in their everyday lives, with a view to contributing to reconciliation in Northern
 Ireland.
