Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: The University of Leeds (UoL)

 Unit of Assessment: Education

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
Overview
Summary of vision, strategy, and distinctiveness
Research in the School of Education examines (i) educational processes in formal and informal
settings, and (ii) education as a driver for fair and inclusive societies globally. Our research into
educational processes probes pedagogy, assessment, curriculum, and teacher development to
improve educational accessibility, methods and outcomes for all. Our work on education as a driver
for societal change investigates issues of equity and inclusion in and through education. We do this
by advancing understandings of typical and atypical development, shaping constructs of disability
and poverty, leading international debate on digital transformation, and decentring approaches to
language, literacies, mobility, and migration. Staff in our School bring diverse knowledge,
specialisms, cultural and linguistic backgrounds, and vocational experience to their research, and
use techniques from disciplines including education, linguistics, psychology and sociology. Our
strategy is to develop this diversity and capitalise on the richness of these multiple perspectives in
increasingly collaborative large projects.
The following themes exemplify our distinctive contribution since REF2014:
 Critical analysis of curriculum in formal school settings. Several influential large-scale intervention
  studies have been externally funded: enhancing character education in schools (Templeton,
  Pike); reading for comprehension (Education Endowment Foundation, EEF, Clarke); support for
  students with low science attainment (EEF/Wellcome, Inglis). Grant capture has also enabled
  contributions on broadening access to post-16 mathematics, (Nuffield, Homer) and improving
  mathematics pedagogy (Swedish Research Council, Sayers). This work includes strong impact
  activity with projects driving changes in education policy and practice nationally (Homer, Pike).
 Research-informed improvement of higher education pedagogy and assessment. Morris and
  colleagues are known internationally for their development and analysis of online pedagogies at
  global scale (ESRC, Morris). Homer leads a long-term programme of highly impactful research
  focused on strategies for improved medical assessment (Homer). These research programmes
  have made innovative use of large-scale datasets and sophisticated statistical analysis methods.
 Education as an enabler of more inclusive, prosperous and just societies. Significant research
  funding from ESRC and British Academy has enabled the School to shape debates in the fields
  of education, inclusivity and child poverty (Main), and childhood deafness communication and
  development (Swanwick). High-quality research publications include three books providing major
  contributions to theory building (Davies, Luke, Swanwick).
 The role of language and language education in addressing social inequality. Six UKRI-funded
  projects have made Leeds an essential point of reference. Deignan has made outstandingly novel
  contributions through the use of applied linguistics analysis techniques in school settings.
  Baynham and Simpson have combined high-quality research and committed impact activity in the
  field of adult language education, multilingualism and migration. Kubanyiova and colleagues are
  resetting the agenda for researching encounters of people with conflicting worldviews through
  work at the interface of social sciences, arts and humanities.
Unit structure and leadership
The Unit of Assessment incorporates all research active staff within the School of Education, Faculty
of Social Sciences. Research strategy is led by the Director of Research (DoR) in consultation with
a research committee (including PGR and ECR representation) and the professoriate. These
mechanisms have increased the reach and dynamism of research groupings and enhanced the
collective ambition to respond to emerging and complex societal challenges (section 3).
Since REF2014 we have completed a major review of research/impact strategy and leadership, and
reconfigured previous ‘academic teams’ (teaching and research) into research-specific Centres
(outlined below). These Centres: strengthen research leadership; provide a coherent external

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
articulation of our research strengths; establish platforms for developing new areas of growth and
capacity for capturing external funding. Centre membership includes all academic staff and PGRs,
researchers from beyond the School and partners outside academia.
 The Inclusion, Childhood and Youth Research Centre (ICY, Director: Kontopodis) carries out
   interdisciplinary, global research on childhood and youth that shapes research and policy
   agendas at interconnected regional, national and global levels. The work of this Centre is informed
   by a broad understanding of education, childhood and youth, which encompasses learning and
   human development across the life span, media and technologies, gender, diversity, poverty and
   inequality, and disability.
 The Centre for Language Education Research (CLER, Director: Kubanyiova) conducts
   interdisciplinary, international research related to language education with the aim of promoting
   an inclusive, just and prosperous society. CLER’s research is positioned at the interface of the
   social sciences and the arts and humanities and engages with broad questions on the role of
   language and intercultural communication in education for sustainable community development,
   global citizenship, and appreciation of cultural diversity.
 The Centre for Curriculum, Pedagogy and Policy (CCPP, Interim Director: Kontopodis) conducts
   research into the policy and practice of formal education, particularly in school settings. CCPP
   collaborates with local and national partners to examine teacher and student learning in a range
   of subject areas with distinctive strengths in mathematics and science education. CCPP’s
   research has informed national and international curriculum policy with a strong focus on
   enhancing social inclusion and citizenship.
 The Centre for Research in Digital Education (CRDE, Director: Morris) is a cross-institutional and
   interdisciplinary network that conducts research into the role of digital technologies to support
   learning in the higher education and workplace learning sectors, exploring multiple contexts
   (formal education, informal learning, lifelong learning) and various modes (blended, hybrid and
   fully online).
Cross-Centre collaboration brings diverse research perspectives and methodologies to our
examination of learning, teaching and assessment in formal and informal settings, and enables us
to undertake agenda-setting investigations of constructs of fairness and inclusivity. The DoR reviews
and guides research funding proposals from the early stages to ensure that application teams build
on cross-Centre collaboration as appropriate (section 3) and involve external expert collaborators.
Examples of successful cross-Centre collaboration include: a research programme using corpus
linguistics analysis methods to explore linguistic challenges in school contexts involving
CLER/CCPP staff (AHRC/ESRC, £803k); the design and evaluation of an innovative character
education curriculum in schools involving ICY/CCPP staff (Templeton, £1.5million). Homer’s
research/impact programme on medical assessment in HE is enabled through links with CCPP and
the Leeds Institute for Medical Education (LIME).
Review of REF2014
All priorities identified in our REF2014 submission (highlighted in italics) have been addressed.
 Priority 1: Developing our international expertise in the new sociology of childhood, seeking to
    understand different aspects of children’s participation in and experience of modern society. This
    has been supported through two external professorial appointments (Kubanyiova, Kontopodis)
    and strategic recruitment of staff with international expertise (section 2). Multiple funded projects
    evidence our growing international expertise in childhood and youth studies. For example:
    deprivation and exclusion (Australian Research Council); character education (Templeton, US);
    English medium education (three British Council projects); school policy and pedagogy (two
    Swedish Research Council projects). We have publications addressing international perspectives
    on childhood and youth led by Kontopodis, and Luke’s book analysing youth culture in Cuba
    (included in a selection of five outputs of ‘exceptional scholarship’, Lexington Books, 2019).
 Priority 2: Broadening and deepening the focus on learning technology to encompass the impact
    of digital technology on young people’s lives, learning and language use, both in developed and
    developing countries. Supported through: a new Chair in Educational Technology, Innovation and
    Change (Morris); Research Fellow appointments (Swinnerton, Perrotta); a new Centre for
    Research in Digital Education, leading to significant research funding: Unbundling HE (ESRC);
    Alternative Frames for Gaming (EU); Impact Case Study (Enhancing Global Online Education).


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Priority 3: Studying the progression of young people in post-compulsory education and training,
  and the factors that underlie choices and outcomes. Evidence of this development includes
  Ryder’s co-edited book Understanding Student Participation and Choice in Science and
  Technology Education from a five country EU-funded project (54,000 chapter downloads 2015-
  2020; top 25% Springer eBook) and Homer’s Nuffield-funded study on the enactment of a new
  post-16 mathematics qualification.
Since REF2014, we have become significantly more outward facing in terms of engaging with
international stakeholders at all stages of research. Through our new appointments from early career
through to professorial, the majority being international, we have extended our reach, ambition, and
interdisciplinary expertise.
Achievement of strategic aims during the assessment period
Growing our collaborative and interdisciplinary research
Our increasing interdisciplinarity is evidenced by multiple funded research projects. For example,
Perrotta’s study Alternative Framings for a new role of Gaming in Education and Society (EU)
involves a diverse team of sociocultural theorists, policy researchers and game developers in the
UK, Italy and The Netherlands. In a linked sequence of AHRC-ESRC-funded studies, Deignan’s
research programme draws together the expertise of applied linguists, curriculum researchers and
school-based educators to explore curriculum transitions in schools using analytical techniques from
corpus lexicography. Morris’s ESRC study examines the role of digital technology in addressing
inequalities through a collaboration with historians, sociologists, education researchers, digital
strategists, and institutional policymakers.
Publications, seminar series and other collaborations also evidence our interdisciplinary research
activity. Of our output submission, 52% include co-authorship outside the School of Education.
Kubanyiova leads an AHRC-funded interdisciplinary network Ethics and Aesthetics of Encountering
the Other (ETHER) involving linguists, philosophers and artists from seven countries to develop tools
for researching encounters of people with conflicting worldviews. Harvey and Simpson co-ordinated
an interdisciplinary Leeds Arts and Humanities Research Institute (LAHRI) seminar series building
interdisciplinary research partnerships linking the academic and creative industry sectors.
Kubanyiova chairs the Language and Culture cross-institutional research sub-theme, led by LAHRI
and the UoL Cultural Institute. Baynham was Co-I on an ESRC-funded seminar series Queering
ESOL which brought together ESOL researchers, feminist and queer scholars from the UK, US,
Brazil, Mexico, Hong Kong and Australia to explore the cultural politics of LGBT issues in the ESOL
classroom. Ahmadian, Clarke, Kubanyiova and Simpson contribute to Language at Leeds, an
interdisciplinary network for language research encompassing expertise from across the UoL.
Research leaders in the School support less experienced staff to build interdisciplinary research
teams with a focus on high-quality track record and diversity of individual strengths. This is enabled
through extended processes of internal peer review of research applications (section 3). The School
draws upon the UoL Crucible Programme, designed to support the engagement of early career
academics in interdisciplinary research activity. In the latter part of the assessment period, we have
set up a new interdisciplinary network linked to the ICY Research Centre. The ICY network
strengthens links between the School’s Centres, and others across the UoL: the Centre for Global
Development (POLIS), the Centre for Disability Studies (Sociology & Health Sciences), the Centre
for Immersive Technologies (Engineering, Computing & Psychology) and the Centre for World
Cinemas (Humanities). Supported by the Leeds Social Sciences Institute (LSSI) the ICY network
links with high-performing social sciences institutes globally (Argentina, Australia and China) to
explore the impact of emerging technologies on childhood and youth in terms of education, inequality
and inclusion across different disciplinary and geographical contexts.
Developing international networks and collaborations
International research strategy is co-ordinated by the DoR and Centre Directors supported by the
LSSI and the Research and Innovation Service (RIS). Over the assessment period we have had
funded research collaborations in Europe (Perrotta, Ryder, Sayers, Swanwick), Asia (Badger, Lamb,
Simpson, Walker), US (Pike), Africa (Harvey, Kuchah, Morris, Swanwick) and Australia (Main). To
support our focus on the role of education in addressing societal challenges globally, we have
established research partnerships in: low -middle income countries Cameroon, Rwanda (Kuchah),

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Ghana (Swanwick), Indonesia (Kuchah, Lamb), Vietnam (Deng, Grassick); and upper-middle
income countries Brazil (Kontopodis, Swanwick), China (Kontopodis, Wilson, Zhao), Cuba (Luke).
The realisation of our internationalisation strategy, and the global breadth of our impact activity is
exemplified in our role in enhancing global online education (Impact Case Study, Morris).
Enhancing engagement with non-academic partners to ensure research with impact
We involve non-academic partners, including children, families, teachers, and local, national and
international bodies, at all stages of our research activity, from inception to dissemination. For
example, Main’s research programme on children’s voices in addressing child poverty has
collaborated at all stages with local and national non-academic bodies such as Leeds City Council,
the Child Poverty Action Group, The Children’s Society, the Department for Work and Pensions. To
support impact activity across our research community, the School has two Impact Champions; a
staff and a PGR representative. Reviewing PGR applications and draft theses includes consideration
of impact. All staff/PGRs can apply for internal funding to support impact activities.
School Research Centres drive our impact and engagement agenda. CLER hosts ‘research-impact
conversations’, seminars and workshops that include non-academic partners (e.g. professionals in
schools, policy makers, arts organisations and NGOs – UoL Culture Research Theme). The ICY
interdisciplinary network involves strong links with non-academic partners internationally, closely
linked to the UoL Global Health Research Theme. CCPP works closely with local and national
primary and secondary schools leading to collaboration and co-production within research bids and
funded projects (Homer, Ryder). We work in partnership with both of our local Research Schools,
Huntington School in York (Deignan) and Bradford Research School Ryder). CRDE has excellent
links within the HE sector, government, government bodies (e.g. Jisc) that enable it to lead research-
informed policy on digital education across the UK. All our Centres are committed to supporting the
UoL mission of being at the heart of the local region and Northern Powerhouse (section 4).
We have a strong record of using impact-specific funding opportunities to enhance the societal
benefit of our research activity. ESRC Impact Acceleration Account awards administered by the
LSSI include: fostering effective parent-practitioner partnerships in character education (Pike);
Leeds Teacher Wellbeing Project (Hanks, Mathieson, with Business School and teacher unions).
Baynham and Simpson’s work in adult migrant language education has been pivotal in the
development of the Migrant English Support Hub (MESH). This consortium of adult learning
providers and Local Authority stakeholders has subsequently been awarded £154k from the
Vulnerable Persons Resettlement Scheme (VPRS) and £267k from the EU Asylum Migration
Integration Fund, as part of the £7m Refugee Integration Yorkshire & the Humber project, led by
Migration Yorkshire. Our Impact Case Studies demonstrate the benefits of meaningful long-term
collaborative relations with non-academic stakeholders that have shaped research at all stages,
from design to impact, e.g. Homer’s work on medical education assessment is enriched by his
association with the General Medical Council and the Nursing and Midwifery Council. The
integration of research-informed policy in online digital education across the UK is enabled through
Morris’s links with the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport, the Department for
Education, Jisc national committees and FutureLearn.
Enhancing quality through ambition, collegiality and open collaboration
The School has a collegial research environment that supports partnerships at local, national and
international levels. Considerations of open access and data protection are supported through
allocations of research time and University support systems. Examples resulting from this include
Main (ESRC), who has published open access data overviews on children’s voice and child poverty
(ResearchGate), Sayers is part of a National Library of Sweden consortium ensuring open access
for all publications from her Swedish Research Council project (improving mathematics pedagogy).
Harvey and Simpson worked with White Rose University Press to ensure open access to a 15-
chapter edited book arising from the British Association for Applied Linguistics conference organised
at Leeds, 2017. School workshops (staff/PGRs) emphasise the application of University-wide
policies on open research access (e.g. deposit within White Rose Research Online-WRRO). The
School piloted an innovative “Request a Copy” feature within WRRO providing early open access to
papers under embargo. Our internally hosted research journal Hillary Place Papers, established in
2014, is entirely open access and embodies the principle of open access among PGRs/ECRs
(section 2).

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our internal review process is a key mechanism for establishing a culture of critical review and
research integrity. This is supported by School-wide workshops (staff/PGRs), for example on ethical
co-authorship agreements, procedures of anonymity, and working with young and vulnerable people
in research and impact contexts. Our research leave model has been redesigned to be flexible and
responsive to individuals’ needs and School priorities, including urgent funding calls and field-
changing writing.
Future research and impact strategy
The School plans to consolidate research activity and resource around our identified areas of
strength. To achieve this, we will capitalise on the diverse knowledge, specialisms, cultural and
linguistic backgrounds, and vocational experience of our research community to develop more
extensive collaborative projects and new streams of funded research with national and international
stakeholders. Through the development of novel approaches to examining questions of social justice
and inclusivity in and through education, our work will continue to address emerging global
challenges and funder priorities (particularly AHRC, ESRC, GCRF, Nuffield Foundation) and change
the lives of children/young people, families, and educational professionals.

1. Pedagogical innovation and the digital pivot in formal education settings
We will continue our distinctive contribution around online pedagogies in higher education.
Responding to growing digital globalisation and inequality, this theme will focus increasingly on the
changing nature of global higher education as a result of digitisation, and digital literacy for learning
and work-force development. The rapidly changing landscape of primary and secondary schooling
(heightened through the impact of the COVID pandemic) requires new collaborations with schools.
We will enhance our focus on teacher engagement with education research, continuing our strength
in the core subjects of language/literacy, science and mathematics. This will enable us to inform
schooling that addresses the challenges of societal inequality, globalisation and health, climate
change, and sustainable livelihoods. We will capitalise on research synergies with priority #1 (human
development in diverse digital societies) to enhance distinctiveness, research quality and impact.
Planned appointments from 2021 will provide additional leadership and capacity in digital education
and the role of schooling in democratising educational outcomes. We have recently secured a three-
year Research Fellowship on the role of learning analytics in higher education (Leeds Institute for
Teaching Excellence, Swinnerton). Broadening and deepening our relations with local schools, we
have recently been chosen as the sole HEI partner for one of the national teaching school hubs
enabling collaboration with 200 schools across the Yorkshire region.
2. The role of language and communication in building inclusive, socially engaged and sustainable
societies
We have a strong research programme on children’s, young people’s and adults’ language and
literacy practices in multilingual societies, across formal and informal educational institutions and in
diverse spaces of community participation. We will draw on our extensive global networks and
conduct socially engaged research into accessible education and public service provision that
honour the linguistic, cultural and social diversity of communities and address challenges of civic
engagement, critical thinking, environmental awareness and social cohesion in uncertain times. Our
interdisciplinary approach and cross-sectorial engagement, supported by strategic funding will
ensure that our work continues to be responsive to global priorities. Impact activity will inform the
development of inclusive pedagogies, practices and policies for language education, language
teacher education, public communication, local governance and community outreach. The
development of this work is supported by three new sources of network and collaboration funding
(Kubanyiova, Harvey, Clarke & Hebron).
3. Education as an enabler of more inclusive, prosperous and just societies
We will continue our high-quality research and impact activity to promote education as a driver for
equality and human rights for children and youth across family, educational and community settings
in close dialogue with young people and policy makers. This will involve a stronger focus on
examining learning and human development in diverse and rapidly evolving digital societies and
consideration of capacity building and sustainable development in underprivileged communities
locally, nationally, across Europe and in countries of the south. This trajectory is supported by our
growing expertise in global youth studies, young people and families, and youth engagement with
media and technology. Our work will address current and emerging societal challenges: social

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
inequality, poverty, complex human relationships with technology, growing role of artificial
intelligence, need for sustainable livelihoods. The development of this research is supported by a
recent professorial appointment with expertise in global youth studies and the role of new media in
addressing poverty and inequality (Kontopodis). New funding that will advance this theme includes:
EU Horizon2020 Innovative Training Network ‘early childhood deafness: communication and social
inclusion’ (Swanwick); an interdisciplinary Leeds-Ghana partnership that examines early support and
education for deaf children and their families (British Academy-GCRF, Swanwick).

To take this work forward we are committed to innovative cross-Centre collaborations and
meaningful engagement with impact partner networks at local, national and international levels. To
support this, we plan to host the Edu4Future conference (inaugurated at Leeds in 2019 - section 4)
every two years. Our staff have been heavily involved in shaping the new Centre for Applied
Education Research (CAER), an ambitious research-impact partnership between the Universities of
Leeds and Bradford, the Bradford Institute of Health Research, Leeds Trinity University, DfE, EEF
and other local partners. CAER is linked to the Bradford Opportunity Area (one of 12 in England)
and aims to support schools in engaging with education and health research that can enhance young
people’s development. Working with CAER provides access to the ongoing Born in Bradford cohort
study and will enable us to progress language interventions across regional schools and
practitioners’ engagement with education research. Working with the LSSI and colleagues across
the UoL the School is shaping the ‘Child of the North’ project, an interdisciplinary network within the
N8 Research Partnership aiming to understand systems and interventions affecting children to
improve childhood experiences and enable transformative change. Linking to the UoL Research
Themes (culture, cities) this network supports the School in progressing its vision of advancing
educational processes in formal and informal settings and promoting education as a driver education
for fair and inclusive societies within a strong regional partnership.

 2. People
Staffing strategy and staff development
Staffing vision. The School attracts and develops academic staff who value and engage in high
quality challenge-led research in our priority areas. We set high expectations that are clearly and
consistently communicated, and explicitly supported. The School provides personalised
developmental support for staff at all career stages. As evidenced below we enact the principles of
the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.
Recruitment and promotion. Our submission of 30 staff comprises 14 staff appointed since August
2013 with four ECRs (Ahmadian, Dang, Inglis, Mazgutova). These appointments support our focus
on: global childhood and youth (Kontopodis, Main, Davies, Luke, Harvey); language education
research (Kubanyiova, Ahmadian, Zhao, Mazgutova, Dang, Kuchah); school curriculum and
pedagogy (Sayers); psychology in education (Griffiths, Hebron). Drawing upon opportunities
provided by UoL Organisational Development and Professional Learning (ODPL) the School was
awarded two University Academic Fellows within the Great Minds programme: Main (child poverty
and social exclusion) and Perrotta (sociology of digital education). Planned appointments target our
priority research themes: pedagogical innovation and the digital pivot in formal education settings;
the role of language and communication in building inclusive, socially engaged and sustainable
societies; education as an enabler of more inclusive, prosperous and just societies.
Staff support and development. Peer support around whole School priorities is a strong characteristic
of our school. Staff are assigned a research mentor with annual staff review and development
(SRDS) meetings, and access to personalised support (in line with the Concordat) is facilitated
through our mentoring programme. QR allocation provides research-active staff with 20% workload
allocation for research. In addition, research active staff can request more and annually have
received an average additional workload allocation of 10% (providing 30% total) to support ambitious
and targeted activity aligning with School priorities. ECRs have full access to all staff support
mechanisms (including research leave and internal funding). Staff new to research in their first three
years of contract, and staff completing a doctorate are supported through an additional 10% of
workload in each case. Individual staff workload totals for teaching, research and leadership are
accessible and transparent to all (Concordat). Through Annual Academic Meetings (AAM) with the

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Head of School and the DoR individual annual research plans, training and support are reviewed
and agreed.
All staff can apply for research leave. The School supports ambitious applications that align with
School priorities. Typically, research-active staff take a semester-length research leave every 4-5
years. This has been used to: develop and submit large, collaborative, interdisciplinary research
bids; write field-changing articles and books and undertake pump-priming or pilot activities. The
School also has an annual Research Investment Fund (RIF) that provides flexible support for
research and impact activities aligned with School objectives. RIF funding has been used to support
staff to: write high quality publications; develop large grant applications; attend research training
activities and conferences; organise networking sessions with non-academic user groups.
Monthly Research Lunches enable discussion between staff/PGRs on topics such as applying for
research funds, responding to reviewer feedback, and are particularly beneficial for ECR staff. Group
Writing Sessions provide a weekly peer support group for staff/PGRs to engage in individual writing.
We hold twice-yearly research away-days and Writing Retreats for staff/PGRs. The School Reading
College provides feedback and support on research writing. Staff/PGRs send near-final research
manuscripts to the College ahead of submission. Manuscripts are reviewed by two staff members
(one experienced, the other mid/early-career) providing peer feedback and mentoring opportunities.
Since its inauguration in September 2017, the College has reviewed around 50 manuscripts from
early-mid career staff including at least five co-written with PGRs.
Facilitating and rewarding links between academia and non-academic stakeholders
Our success with impact acceleration funds (section 1) is facilitated through School processes:
several of our research lunches have focused on engagement; Centres each run at least one
‘outward-facing’ School-wide event annually; at early stages of research bid development internal
review focuses on engaging non-academic stakeholders as partners.
Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs)
Our ambition is to attract high quality PGRs to work with staff on the School’s priority research
themes and to provide exceptional research training for the next generation of education researchers
and global citizens. The School includes around 90 PGRs on two programmes: PhD and the
professional EdD. The EdD supports research engagement for non-academic education
professionals particularly in the Yorkshire region. We have achieved a 24% increase in
completions/year since REF2014 (13.8 to 17.1).

            2013/14      2014/15     2015/16     2016/17     2017/18     2018/19     2019/20    Total
EdD                2.0         1.5         2.5        0.0          1.0        1.0         5.0     13.0
PhD                9.5        13.7        14.3        19.8        18.0       13.0        18.5    106.8
Total             11.5        15.2        16.8        19.8        19.0        14.0       23.5    119.8

Supporting our objective of addressing global challenges, our PGRs are from 23 countries with 56%
of completions from outside Europe. Interdisciplinarity is stimulated through co-supervisions with
other Schools e.g. Linguistics, Psychology, Medical Education, Food Sciences and Nutrition,
Computing, Music and Physics. Of completions, 12% were Research Council scholarships and 64%
female. We have a large and successful part-time cohort (20% of completions).
Approach to recruitment
We work with high-quality candidates to develop applications aligning with our research priorities.
We encourage progression from our MA programmes to PhD/EdD with two information events each
year. An example of our ambitious and international approach to PGR recruitment is the recent
award of an Horizon2020 Innovative Training Network (€4million, £600k to Leeds, Swanwick) to
support 15 PGRs across Europe with two based at Leeds.
Evidence of the quality of training and supervision
Each PGR has two supervisors, typically an experienced member of staff alongside an early/mid-
career academic. Formal supervision meetings are held at least every month. Many PGRs conduct
overseas fieldwork and we require monthly fieldwork reports and video-call supervisions for

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
monitoring and support. The most recent Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES_2019)
shows that PGR satisfaction scores are consistently higher than the Russell Group (Education)
average; 92% satisfied with overall experience (79% Russell Group average). The School uses the
UoL Graduate Record of Achievement and Development (GRAD) online system to record
supervision meetings, training plans, formal progress reviews and changes of location. GRAD
provides a central shared staff/PGR space that supports a coherent developmental pathway for
PGRs.
In addition to School-taught modules on research methods, structured training is provided through
the regional White Rose Doctoral Training Partnership (WRDTP), the Leeds Doctoral College and
the University ODPL, LSSI and Library development programmes. PGRs can access internal funding
to enable international conference presentations. Within the assessment period at least 60 PGRs
have presented their work at international conferences. PGR Taylor was shortlisted for the 2020 UK
Literacy Association student research prize. PGR Aliaga-Salas co-edited a book from her thesis
exploring teacher research as professional development. Our PGRs are active within the annual
Leeds Doctoral College Showcase, fostering cross-disciplinary links and peer group support. PGR
Hariri received an award at the 2020 Student Sustainability Research Conference for the originality
of her work on sustainable assessment feedback in second language education.
Integration into research culture of the School
The School has an inclusive and participatory approach to its doctoral community. The PGR
representative committee, which includes both PhD/EdD programmes and full-time/part-time
cohorts, meets regularly with senior staff in the School to discuss the integration of PGRs within the
research environment. In 2017, PGR Hussain won a University-level award for her work in supporting
PGR integration within the School. Each Research Centre has a PGR lead and all PGRs are Centre
members. We employ PGRs within our funded research to support their academic and professional
development e.g. quantitative analysis of data (teacher development in maths, Ryder and Tasara,
Department for Education), data collection (pupils’ reading and language skills in secondary schools,
Clarke, EEF). Kubanyiova’s AHRC network (ETHER) includes a PGR internship to support
development of research methodologies. Taylor worked with PGR Parinita Shetty to co-organise a
workshop at the ESRC Festival of Social Science, 2019 on the theme of children's writing.
The School has multiple activities involving staff and PGRs e.g. Informal Research Lunches
(monthly), Group Writing Sessions (weekly) and Writing Retreats (twice yearly). PGRs can submit
manuscript drafts to the School’s Reading College for feedback. PGRs are encouraged to consider
co-writing journal manuscripts with supervisors. Workshops within the School have focused on the
ethics of co-authorship to ensure PGR agency in writing with supervisors. The School hosts the
PGR-led research journal Hillary Place Papers. The Editorial Board consists of PGRs/staff working
together to commission articles and co-review manuscripts. This has published 34 outputs, 47% of
which are co-authored by PGRs. The School hosts an annual PGR-led Research Conference
(RSEC) to discuss generic aspects of their work (e.g. methodological challenges, research impact,
ethics) in a collegial and supportive environment.
PGR wellbeing
The School holds regular PGR lunches and has an active social programme, designed to reduce
social isolation and foster peer group support. The wellbeing of PGRs who are part-time and/or
offsite is supported through regular contact with supervisors and our dedicated PGR
Administrator/Support Officer. Fortnightly online seminars presenting PGR work in progress ensure
inclusion of part-time and off-campus PGRs. These include staff-led sessions on themes such as
‘how Examiners assess a thesis’ and ‘philosophical underpinnings of education research’.
Preparing PGRs for future research and impact activity
The School Employability Officer offers tailored careers information sessions for PGRs. The latest
PRES data (2019) shows a 10% increase since 2017 in PGRs reporting the successful development
of professional networks. We encourage PGRs to engage in placements, e.g. PGR D’Silva’s LSSI
award to work with The Equality Trust on income inequality and social disadvantage, PGR Dearden’s
collaboration with Birmingham Opera Company, PGR Marquez’s OECD-Paris internship on PISA
data analysis.
Future developments.

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We plan to increase the number and quality of PGRs through enhanced interdepartmental
supervision of interdisciplinary projects and greater alignment of PGR projects with School priorities
(section 1), e.g. an ESRC WRDTP Collaborative Studentship ‘inclusivity in children’s engagement
in democracy’ with the School of Politics and International Studies and the UK Parliament Education
Service. We will build on recent success with the EU Horizon 2020 research and innovation
programme and further exploit ESRC WRDTP studentship awards.
Equality and diversity
The School has established two roles dedicated to equality and diversity: Equality and Inclusion
Officer, and Disability Officer. Our work on gender equality has been recognised by an Athena SWAN
Bronze award to the Faculty of Social Sciences. Over the assessment period, the School has had
two Directors of Research (both female) and a female Head of School for three years.
Research leave is open to staff at all career stages, full-time or part-time, and staff do not have to
have been in post for a specific period to apply. The School makes adjustments for staff by
supporting flexible working arrangements, (e.g. off-site working, flexible office hours) to
accommodate personal circumstances such as caring responsibilities. We consider the gender
balance of supervisor pairs for each PGR as appropriate to PGR gender and cultural background.
Staff returning from periods of parental leave or ill health are provided with a phased return-to-work
plan.
The School has followed the UoL Code of Practice on staff entry. Two grade 7 ‘teaching and
research’ staff have been judged as yet to reach research independence; one recently submitted a
doctoral thesis, the other is within 18 months of doctorate completion. Of six ‘research only’ staff in
the School, one grade 8 staff member has been assessed as independent.
Our submission of 30 staff shows strong female representation at 56%. This extends into higher
grades; 50% female at grade 9/10. Our professoriate is 41% female, significantly higher than
nationally (26%, HESA-2018/19). Our output submission has 65% attributed to female staff. ECRs
are fully represented in our submission: 11% of output attributions; 14% of staff submitted. Output
attributions also reflect a strong body of developing early-mid career researchers: 36% to staff on
grades 7-8.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
Strategy for generating income
Sustained external income is central to our goal of producing high-quality research with societal
impact. Our Centre-led research income strategy (section 1, elaboration below) has led to major
growth within an increasingly competitive funding environment. Our total research income over the
REF period is £4,044,961. Our average income per year of £577,852 is 62% higher than REF2014.
In response to the challenging climate our strategy has been to diversify our funders (awards from
24 different funders over the assessment period). We have intensified our efforts to secure funding
from AHRC/ESRC. Staff with a track record of AHRC/ESRC funding, and early-mid career staff
successful with other funders, are encouraged to convene AHRC/ESRC bid teams. From the early
stages of bid development research leaders work with bid developers to encourage: ambition;
linkage to School research priorities; consideration of impact partners; building appropriate
interdisciplinary and multi-institution teams. Encouraging ambition has also been supported at
Faculty level through monthly ‘Pro-Dean surgeries’ that provide a drop-in opportunity to discuss
funding sources and networks. As a result, our UKRI and British Academy funding has more than
doubled since REF2014 to £243k/year. Our UKRI success rate is 42% (16% for REF2014).
Peer review processes and peer support for grant proposal development have been strengthened
over the REF period, with particular attention on early stages of development. Staff send an
Expression of Interest form to the DoR and Head of School who consider quality, feasibility, strategy-
fit and support/mentoring. Targeted allocation of RIF funds, additional workload hours and research
leave enable appropriate staff to focus on ambitious grant applications aligning with School priorities.
The School encourages large collaborative bids, enabling more efficient use of support services,
more secure research assistant staffing, and enhanced impact through sustained collaboration with
partners. As a result, the average size of funding applications within the School has risen from £128k
(REF2014) to £163k. Peer review processes introduced over the period also aim to increase success

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
rates making more efficient use of our staff and resources. Draft applications are independently
reviewed by two senior staff, co-ordinated by the DoR. Research Council applications undergo an
additional level of peer review at Faculty level. As a result, success by grant value is now 20% (6%
for REF2014).
Our strategy of addressing societal challenges includes responsiveness to targeted funder calls.
Schemes relevant to the School’s priority themes are identified at an early stage by the DoR,
supported by Faculty and School professional support staff. Our flexible support mechanisms (time,
funding - section 2) are deployed at short notice enabling staff to respond to short-term calls.
Examples of targeted-funding calls that the School has responded to (with success) include: digital
technology in higher education (ESRC-Newton); character education (Templeton); school
improvement (3 EEF awards); translating cultures (AHRC).
The DoR monitors the distribution of RIF funds, additional workload hours and study leave to ensure
equality and diversity. Of 13 funded projects in the prestigious UKRI category, eight were led by
female staff and five led by staff at grade 9. Early/mid-career staff are encouraged to engage with
more senior staff to form application teams. Staff are encouraged to use pump-priming (e.g. within
RIF) to enable small-scale research leading to larger funding applications consistent with the
School’s research priorities (e.g. Clarke’s feasibility work ahead of a successful EEF funding
application). Review and mentoring arrangements include an emphasis on maintaining ethical
standards in research, e.g., explicit reference to the application of BERA ethical guidelines.
Many of our high-quality research outputs follow from prestigious grant awards, e.g. metaphors of
climate change (Deignan, AHRC), child poverty (Main, ESRC), the educational support of children
who are deaf and their families (Swanwick, British Academy). We have been successful in securing
funding for six ESRC/LSSI Impact Acceleration Account awards. These awards have progressed
the School’s research priorities e.g., ‘improving educational and social outcomes for deaf children of
Roma families’ (Swanwick) takes forward our social justice and inclusion research and impact
agenda. Our impact case studies follow from large and prestigious funding awards reflecting our
objective of meaningful inter-relation between world-leading research and impact with reach and
significance. For example, ‘Children’s voices in addressing child poverty’ (Main) follows from an
ESRC Future Research Leaders project and two subsequent impact projects (ESRC/LSSI Impact
Acceleration Account award, an impact project funded by Leeds City Council).
Infrastructure and facilities
Physical infrastructure. Research community building has been further enabled by the consolidation
of the School campus into one dedicated building (previously two sites). This has supported cross-
Centre collaboration and collegiality and ensured a single high-profile location on campus for
meetings with non-academic partners. Dedicated PGR facilities are prioritised. The School has a
PGR common room and nine PGR-specific rooms with 64 workstations. Full-time PGRs within their
study period have individual workstations. Other PGRs share hot-desking facilities within the
building.
Dataset facilities. We have distinctive strengths in the innovative use of large-scale datasets and
statistical analysis methods; 22% of our submitted outputs include analysis of large-scale national
datasets. This is supported by use of national dataset infrastructure. Homer is recognised
internationally as a researcher with expertise in the statistical analysis of large-scale education-
related data, e.g. leading projects making distinctive use of the National Pupil Database (Nuffield)
and HESA datasets (Nuffield, International Baccalaureate), national evaluations (e.g. DfE
Opportunity Area Programme) and membership of the DfE Data Sharing and Approval Panel. Main
has utilised national and international datasets in her work on child poverty and wellbeing, e.g. the
international Children’s World dataset, UK Poverty and Social Exclusion dataset. Our strength in
corpus linguistics also utilises large-scale dataset analysis (Dang, Deignan).
Website/blogs. We have invested in developing our website presence over the REF period:
enhancing visibility of our impact work; showcasing high profile research activity; increasing
responsiveness through Twitter feeds, blogs and podcasts (e.g. a dedicated webpage of resources
for parents and teachers home-schooling during COVID pandemic).
Professional services. The School has 1.0FTE research support working with the DoR and Centre
Directors on communications and impact partner engagement. Professional staff provide 0.2FTE

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
within the School on HR and finance linked to research. At Faculty-level 7.8FTE (includes 2.0FTE
specifically on impact) provide pre/post-award support and targeted training (e.g. diversifying funding
sources).
University-wide resources. The School has utilised Faculty International Research Mobility Awards
(FIRMA), e.g. two awards enabled researchers and impact partners from China, Brazil, India, South
Africa and Germany to contribute expertise in digitalisation, education and inclusion at the
Edu4Future conference organised by the School (section 4). UoL LSSI funding supports our impact
strategy (six Impact Acceleration Account awards). Swinnerton and Zhao have held Leeds Institute
for Teaching Excellence (LITE) Fellowships.
Wider facilities. Staff are encouraged to exploit funding opportunities of the White Rose Consortium.
This includes: White Rose Doctoral Training Partnership Collaborative Awards, e.g. Main’s
application for a doctoral partnership with Irise International (Ugandan-based NGO); White Rose
Collaboration Funds (e.g. multilingualism and ASD, Clarke, Hebron). The School has utilised the
National STEM Learning Centre based at York to support impact partnership in the development of
bids (Ryder, ESRC) and communication of research findings to non-academic education
professionals (Banner, Inglis).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
Research activity involving collaboration.
Leadership of funded research collaborations in Europe, Asia, Africa, US, and Australia has
expanded the international reach of our research. For example, within our inclusion priority theme,
we increasingly work with African partners: Ghana (Swanwick-British Academy-GCRF); Rwanda
(Kuchah-ESRC New Investigator Grant); South Africa (Harvey-AHRC-GCRF, Morris-ESRC);
Cameroon (Kuchah-British Council); Griffiths was Co-I on a World Bank-funded RCT trial of the
impact of integrated parenting, nutrition and malaria prevention in Mali. Following strategic
appointments (section 2) we have growing collaborations in Indonesia, Vietnam, Japan, Cameroon,
Slovakia, Afghanistan, Oman, Canada, Brazil, Chile, Latin America, New Zealand and China. For
example, Lamb co-edited the 30-chapter Palgrave Macmillan Handbook of Motivation for Language
Learning with colleagues in Sweden, Japan and Hungary (8,500 chapter downloads in the first six
months). Harvey co-founded the International Association of Applied Linguistics (AILA) research
network Creative Inquiry in Applied Linguistics (100 members across 5 continents) leading to an
interdisciplinary AHRC-funded Research Network (Learning at the Intersection of Language and
Arts, LILA). The AILA Fully Inclusive Practitioner Research (FIPR) Network (23 countries) founded
by Hanks is driving discussion on methodological challenges in applied linguistics research. Clarke
is part of the Chilean Language and Reading Alliance (CLARA), arising from an ESRC-Newton
funded research network resulting in a co-authored publication reporting the effects of a reading
intervention for low-income children in Chile.
Collaboration strategy prioritises interdisciplinary international research. For example, Swanwick’s
leadership in deaf education and inclusion involves collaboration with the National Technical Institute
for the Deaf at Rochester Institute of Technology (US), Max Planck Institute (Germany), the
Behavioural Science Institute, Radboud University (Netherlands) and the Centre for Research in
Cognition and Neurosciences (Belgium). Clarke is member of the Language and Reading Research
in Yorkshire (LARRY) interdisciplinary network of c.30 researchers (education, psychology, human
communication, linguistics) with strong regional impact goals, e.g. presentation at the Leeds Dyslexia
Festival, 2018. We emphasise the role of PGRs in supporting research and impact communities
globally. For example, Swanwick worked with PGR Fobi to identify collaborators in Ghana leading
to international collaborative funding (education for young deaf children, British Academy-GCRF).
An example of how we are pursuing our agenda on international, interdisciplinary collaboration into
the next REF cycle is the Edu4Future: Local & Global Perspectives conference organised by the
School in 2019. This two-day event brought together academic partners from a range of disciplines
with stakeholders from UNESCO, UNICEF, Save the Children and the National Children’s Bureau
(100 participants from eight countries).
Collaborations to improve the impact of our research.


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our impact case studies evidence our commitment to sustaining meaningful ongoing collaboration
with non-academic stakeholders. For example, Main’s impact case study demonstrates a long-term,
productive research-impact collaboration at local and national levels (Leeds City Council, The Child
Poverty Action Group, The Children's Society). Morris’s impact case study demonstrates how we
scale up our impact with collaboration locally (Morris is former Dean of Digital Education, current
Interim Deputy Vice-Chancellor: Digital Transformation at the UoL), nationally (FutureLearn) and
internationally (South Africa links).
We have extensive impact collaborations beyond submitted case studies. Our contribution on critical
analysis of school curriculum is exemplified by Pike’s secondment 0.5FTE as CEO of a multi-
academy trust of six schools (7,500 pupils) in the north of England 2017-21. This school network is
pioneering the development of research-informed ‘schools of character’, drawing from Pike’s
research on character education (Templeton-funded project, Ethical English book). The following
exemplify our work with education professionals to provide research-informed tools to address
societal challenges. An ESRC/LSSI Impact Acceleration Account award enabled Davies to work with
the award-winning social enterprise ‘Families Feeling Safe’ to organise an impact event for teachers,
charities and safeguarding professionals that introduced research-informed safeguarding
resources (on bullying, domestic abuse and child sex abuse) for use with young children. Chambers
co-edited a book for education professionals on addressing the challenges of integrating language
teaching in Anglophone contexts. Swanwick’s Language Planning Toolkit (from a mid-career British
Academy Fellowship) has been presented through workshops in schools and with national deaf
organisations (National Sensory Impairment Partnership, British Association for Teachers of the
Deaf).
To enhance our impact collaborations, we actively draw upon the UoL Public Engagement
programme, e.g. Harvey (participatory theatre) was supported by a UoL Public Engagement
Fellowship leading to a Public Engagement with Research Award (2017), Clarke (EEF-funded,
reading for comprehension) presented research-informed resources at a UoL ‘Be Curious’ public
engagement event. To support our inclusion agenda, we engage members of our school-aged and
adult local community on work experience within research projects (e.g. Main, Deignan, Simpson).
These projects benefit from their perspectives and offer university-based opportunities to those who
might not otherwise have such access. Such activities evidence our contribution to the UoL mission
of being at the heart of the local region and Northern Powerhouse.
Indicators of wider influence and recognition in the community

Editorial activity
Our editorial activity exemplifies our international leadership and areas of research strength. As co-
editor of the journal Metaphor and the Social World, Deignan is leading the development of
interdisciplinary analyses of metaphor in social contexts. Our contribution to social justice and
childhood is exemplified by the Childhood Vulnerability Journal, co-founded by Main (also co-editor
of the Journal of Poverty and Social Justice). Other editorial lead roles exemplify our disciplinary
leadership in reading (Clarke and Griffiths, associate editors of the Journal of Research in Reading),
technology in education (Morris, Chair of Editorial Board, Research in Learning Technology Journal),
curriculum and formal schooling (during Ryder’s term as editor-in-chief the ISI impact factor for
Studies in Science Education increased from 1.26 to 3.25). Special issue editorship has enabled
leadership of new disciplinary debates, e.g. resetting the agenda for inquiry into language teacher
cognition (Kubanyiova, Modern Language Journal), critiquing the dominant ‘what works’ agenda
within school curriculum (Homer, International Journal of Research and Method in Education). Staff
have (co)-edited 24 books, many involving substantial international authorship, and worked on the
editorial board of 30 research journals.
Research grant reviewing, consultancy and committee work
The School has three members of the ESRC peer review college (Main, Morris, Ryder). Other
prestigious Grant Board membership includes Research Council of Norway (Morris), reviewing within
UKRI-GCRF and EU Horizon 2020 (Kontopodis), British Academy-GCRF (Simpson). Demonstrating
commitment to societal benefit, staff have contributed evidence to government committees and
independent commissions, e.g. The Department for Digital, Culture, Media & Sport Digital Skills and
Inclusion Research Working Group (Morris), UN Special Rapporteur on Extreme Poverty (Main), DfE

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Data Sharing Approval Panel (Homer), oral evidence to the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Social
Integration (Simpson).
Leadership of research and professional organisations
We are disciplinary leaders in applied linguistics and language education with multiple leadership
roles. Kuchah is President of the International Association of Teachers of English as a Foreign
Language (IATEFL) with a membership of c.4000 practitioners, consultants and researchers across
134 countries. Deignan is Treasurer of International Association for Researching and Applying
Metaphor; Ahmadian, Hanks and Simpson serve on the Executive Committee of the British
Association for Applied Linguistics. Our contributions around inclusion and childhood are
emphasised through the following leadership roles: Expert Advisory Board Member, UNICEF Office
of Research-Innocenti Report Card 16 team (Main); British Association for Teachers of the Deaf
(Swanwick). Leadership within curriculum/pedagogy includes: Secretary of the European Science
Education Research Association (Ryder); invited honorary member of Japan Association of College
English Teachers (Hanks). Our influential work on technology in education is indicated by Morris’s
appointment as Chair of the Communications and Publications Committee for the Association for
Learning Technology.
Organisation of conferences and seminar series
Through extensive conference organisation activity, the School has provoked intellectual debate on
issues of disability, inclusion, equity and poverty, challenged understandings of language, literacies
and mobility, and shared cutting-edge research into pedagogy, assessment, curriculum and teacher
development. Representing our work on inclusion and just societies: Main co-organised the 2018
Childhood Vulnerability Conference, Frankfurt; Baynham was consultant to the ESRC-funded
seminar series Queering ESOL. Examples of our disciplinary leadership in languages and language
education: Kubanyiova is PI of an innovative AHRC-funded seminar series, Ethics and Aesthetics of
Encountering the Other (ETHER); Simpson chaired the local organising committee for the 50th
Annual Meeting of the British Association for Applied Linguistics (BAAL) held at the UoL; Lamb was
organising committee member for the British Council/ITB/UoL Biennial Conference on Language
Education, Indonesia, 2016/18. Conference organisation activity also reflects research strengths in
curriculum and policy. Ryder was on the organising committee for European Science Education
Research Association conferences (c.1800 researchers) in Helsinki (2015) and Dublin (2017).
Sayers co-organised the Eleventh Congress of the European Society for Research in Mathematics
Education, Utrecht (929 participants). Our leadership through digital education event organisation
includes: a flagship ESRC-funded UK digital education policy event, 2018; FutureLearn Academic
Network, 2019 (Morris, Swinnerton) and the 2020 world-leading conference on Digital
Transformation that was attended by an international audience of over 400 delegates.
Conference activity
Staff have given at least 355 presentations at international conferences over the assessment period.
The excellence of our research and its important contribution to the discipline globally is evidenced
by 42% of these presentations being invited. Evidencing our emphasis on impact, this includes 107
conferences for non-academic practitioners (52% invited). The following invited keynotes exemplify
our global contribution on the role of language and language education in addressing social
inequalities: International Second Language Teacher Education Research Conference, Minneapolis
(Kubanyiova); International Conference on Current Practices in Language, Linguistics and
Literature, Pakistan (Lamb); International Conference on Foreign Languages and Literature
Teaching, Taiwan (Dang); invited keynotes in Poland, Israel, Sweden, Cyprus, Netherlands
(Baynham). We have a distinctive strength in corpus linguistics, e.g. invited keynotes by Deignan:
International conference on Metaphor and Discourse, Spain; German Society of Cognitive
Linguistics. The following invited keynotes exemplify our advances in the field of inclusion and social
justice: International Conference on Educational Anthropology, East China Normal University
(Kontopodis); National Institute of Special Education International Symposium (Griffiths);
International Symposium on Shared Parenting, London (Davies). Invited keynotes also demonstrate
our emphasis on critical analyses of curriculum and pedagogy: The Tao and Character Education,
21st Century Human Values Forum, Andong, South Korea (Pike); National Science Education
Research Association annual conferences, Brazil & Korea (Ryder); invited keynotes in Japan, US,
Turkey, Thailand (Hanks). Morris has given 15 invited keynotes in nine countries, showing our major
contribution to research in digital education.

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Prizes and Fellowships
Morris and colleagues were awarded Learning Technology Team of the Year (2015) by the
Association for Learning Technology. Ryder was awarded an Honorary Doctorate (2017) by Uppsala
University, Sweden. Hanks was shortlisted for the Christopher Brumfit thesis award (sponsored by
Cambridge University Press) and Kubanyiova shortlisted for the Duke of Edinburgh English
Language book award. Homer is a Fellow of the Royal Statistical Society; Baynham is a Fellow of
the Academy of Social Sciences.
Staff have held five Visiting Professorships over the assessment period, e.g. University of Jyväskylä,
Finland (Simpson), College of Gouda, Netherlands (Pike). Swanwick’s recent book resulted in a
Visiting Professorship at University of São Paulo, Brazil. The School has hosted 25 Visiting Fellows
from 10 countries. We support Visiting Fellowships linking with our strategic priorities (section 2). For
example, staff within CLER hosted the prestigious Hornby Scholars scheme to support research
mobility of 10-15 TESOL professionals annually from low-middle income countries (2014-2016).
Morris hosted a Visiting Fellow from China leading to two co-authored journal articles in our research
priority area of digital education. Simpson has hosted two Visiting Fellows from the University of
Jyväskylä leading to multiple publications in adult ESOL. Kubanyiova hosted a Visiting Professor
from University of West, Sweden, leading to a joint Swedish Research Council bid on student
motivation.
Contribution within the PGR community
Staff have acted as Externals Examiners for 106 UK PGRs and 41 PGRs internationally. Ryder co-
organised two doctoral summer schools (c.100 PGRs) for the European Science Education
Research Association (Turkey, Czech Republic). Simpson was an invited tutor at the Language and
Migration Summer School for PGR/ECRs at the University of Bern. Hanks (and previously Clarke)
leads the Childhood, Education and Youth interdisciplinary training pathway for the ESRC WRDTP
at the University. Kubanyiova led a workshop for PGR/ECRs at the Eleventh International
Conference on Language Teacher Education, Minnesota. We support regional capacity building by
providing experienced supervisors to work with less experienced supervisors based at smaller local
HEIs (e.g. Leeds Trinity University).




                                                                                                Page 14
