Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Bristol

 Unit of Assessment: 31: Theology and Religious Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Unit context and structure
The Department of Religion and Theology [RETH] is based in the Faculty of Arts within the School
of Humanities, the largest School in the University of Bristol comprising five units: Classics and
Ancient History, English, History, History of Art and RETH. At the REF census date RETH had 7
academics, 1 postdoctoral researcher and 13 research students, while over the course of the REF
period it had 8 academics, 37 PhD students, and 2 postdoctoral researchers. RETH’s productive
research activity is exemplified by the publication of 7 monographs, 4 edited volumes, 65
articles, 1 documentary, 23 short articles, 1 exhibition catalogue, 23 PhDs awarded and the
establishment of close working partnerships with the Clifton Diocese and Benedictine
Order during the REF2021 cycle.

RETH generates four thematic areas based on subject specific expertise of individual scholars as
well as research groupings: Religion, Medicine and Psychology (Askin, Deane, Gethin, Leech,
and Lomi), Religion and Ritual (Askin, Langer, Lomi, Muessig), Religion and Textual Studies
(Askin, Balserak, Gethin, Langer, Leech, Lomi, Muessig) and Religion and Theological
Reform (Balserak, D’Costa and Muessig). The unit’s research strategy is led by the Head of
Department (HoD) in consultation with all departmental staff. The School’s Research
Committee, consisting of the School’s Director of Research, Head of School and all five of the
School’s HoDs, support and guide the research initiatives within each Department as well as
collaborative interactions with Departments across the School and the Faculty of Arts. Three of the
six Faculty research centres facilitate some of RETH’s initiatives: the Centre for Health,
Humanities and Science (CHHS), the Centre for Material Texts (CMT) and the Centre for
Medieval Studies (CMS). The Faculty of Arts provides funds for international conferences
organisation as well as research travel, impact activities and interdisciplinary research clusters.
The Research, Enterprise and Development unit (RED), which has a Faculty and University team,
supports researchers in grant writing and budget planning for external and internal funding.

Research Strategy
RETH is the only Department in the UK recognised as having a characteristic and
outstanding dual concentration on Buddhism and Judeo-Christianity. As indicated in REF
2014, its strategy was to sustain and build this reputation, while realising interdisciplinarity and
complementarity between its two groupings. Over the last six years, RETH has nurtured research
initiatives between its Judeo-Christianity (Askin, Balserak, D’Costa, Leech, Muessig) and
Buddhist Studies researchers (Deane, Gethin, Langer, Lomi), while showcasing its two distinct
research areas with pioneering publications. D’Costa’s conclusions on Vatican II’s treatment of
other religions in relation to the teachings of the magisterium in two monographs have stimulated
considerable international attention (keynote speaker five countries, journal round table discussion,
and an AAR panel discussion). Gethin’s comparative assessment of Pali, Sanskrit and Chinese
texts on early Buddhist meditations has engendered international attention with invitations as a
keynote speaker at Stanford University (2018) and Leiden University (2019). These two research
areas were brought together in a volume edited by D’Costa on Buddhist-Christian Dual Belonging
where both D’Costa and Gethin contributed articles.

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)


Departmental colleagues work collaboratively to enhance its research culture in the four areas
mentioned above. Through its use of themed research topics, RETH articulated its aim to enhance
cooperative work within the Department. Its strategic appointments of Lomi, (East Asian
Religions, 2016) and Askin, (Jewish Studies, 2018) facilitate the Department’s reinforcement
and development of its subject-specific research interests that complement wider faculty
and university initiatives (see below).

    1. Religion, Medicine and Psychology
Grant successes in this area reflect RETH’s international reach. Lomi won a Japanese Studies
Fellowship (JSF) in 2019–20 (£30,000) for her project Bile, Arsenic, and Gall Stones that explores
the performative and material dimension of different therapeutics and establishes correlations
between religious ritual and medical approaches to the body and its wellbeing. Her publications
investigate performative, healing, and transformative dimensions of Buddhist rituals, scriptures,
and objects. Gethin’s established work on mindfulness and Buddhist psychology challenges
tendencies in scholarship and medical practice that remove the metaphysical aspects from
mindfulness and reduce it to psychotherapy. He won an American Robert H. N. Ho Family
Foundation Research Fellowship in 2017-18 (£54,055). Deane’s project on Tibetan perspectives
on mental health, illness and how medicine and religion overlap gained a British Academy three-
year postdoctoral Award from 2017–2020, with a covid extension (£300,555).

    2. Religion and Ritual
This theme runs throughout Langer’s research on food, merit and cosmology in Theravada
Buddhism. Langer has made a series of documentary films (open access) on food rituals in Sri
Lanka that reveal women’s ritualistic involvement as food makers and ritual specialists. Muessig’s
work on medieval and early modern stigmatics and female preachers demonstrates that women’s
roles were closely tied to ‘performative Christianity’ whereby they taught the Gospel through
ritualistic forms of dance, mime and singing. Askin and Lomi’s investigation into the connections
between medicine and religion in premodern societies interrogates the roles of both body and mind
in devotional performance, and of religious communities in the production and circulation of
medical knowledge. This is pertinent to researchers across the Faculty of Arts working on Medical
Humanities and associated with the CHHS and the CMS.

     3. Religion and Texts
RETH has long been committed to the production of critical editions, commentaries and
translations of religious texts. Askin and Lomi add a new dimension by assessing religious
texts as evidence of material and scribal culture as well as objects of devotion. They also
employ more traditional aspects of textual studies. Askin uses lexicographic, philological, and text-
critical perspectives in her analysis of ancient Jewish scribal culture, with the crucial inclusion of
documentary writings such as papyri and epigraphy to shed light on Greco-Roman Jewish
literature. Lomi’s translations of medieval Japanese Buddhist rituals into English make these texts
accessible to a wider audience of academics and research students. Langer’s research on
Buddhist charity draws on several ancient Pali texts as well as the fifteenth-century Sinhala
Kāvyaśekharaya that, until now, have never been translated into any European language.
Leech’s Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC)-funded project on the Cambridge
Platonists includes first-time transcriptions of early modern manuscripts of Cambridge Platonists,
their defenders and critics available as an Open Access resource (Cambridge Platonism
Sourcebook). Muessig’s research on holy women is based on her translations of vernacular and

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Latin sources, arising from her discovery of rare manuscript copy of Catherine of Siena’s
office (Dublin Trinity College 1765). This was funded by her Trinity College Dublin Fellowship
and University of Bristol Research Fellowship. This led to her pioneering monograph on
religious stigmata, spanning the patristic to early modern era. Gethin is President of the Pali Text
Society which promotes the study of Pali sources. Some present-day Buddhists (Aukana Trust)
established a free audio website using Gethin’s translations of ancient Buddhist sutras
because his translations demonstrate how repetition performs not only a mnemonic function, but
also a meditative function. These ground-breaking studies into ancient, medieval and early modern
texts reflect the breadth of linguistic skill that RETH brings to the study of Judeo-Christian and
Buddhist texts. RETH has also organised international workshops and conferences jointly with the
Italian Department and the CMS, bringing together international interdisciplinary researchers who
broadly explore the theme of religion and texts (e.g. Dante and Origins December, International
conference, December 2016; Re-Imagining the Bible, International Workshop, June 2019).

    4. Religion and Theological Reform
Balserak, D’Costa and Muessig examine catalysts for religious change across the medieval,
early modern and contemporary period that clarify transformations in practice and belief. Their
work is notable for its scholarly reputation, public engagement and impact. Muessig’s long-
term research on medieval monastic identity, preaching and reform has facilitated the Benedictine
community in Somerset to establish itself as a beacon of monastic heritage in the Southwest and
informs one of our Impact Case Studies (ICS). Balserak’s expertise on the early modern reformer
John Calvin was recognised when Oxford University Press (OUP) contracted his Calvinism: A Very
Short Introduction, which has been translated into Chinese and Korean. D’Costa’s ground-
breaking monographs on Vatican II reform (2014 and 2019, the latter supported by a Leverhulme
Research Fellowship, £20,146) reassess the Catholic Church’s views of the ‘other’. His research
has influenced pedagogical and doctrinal treatment of interfaith dialogue by shaping school
curricula and the local diocese treatment of interfaith dialogue and forms one of our ICS.
Three doctoral dissertations have been written on D'Costa’s approach to interfaith dialogue.

RETH has been committed to collaborative projects. In 2015-16 Muessig organised RETH’s 50th
anniversary celebration that included 13 public lectures featuring RETH’s distinctive legacy in
Christianity and Buddhism presented by former staff and research students; and a public lecture in
Bristol’s Great Hall by Rowan Williams on Christian meditation, chaired by D’Costa, responded to
by Gethin on Buddhist meditation. This was the most replayed public lecture on the University of
Bristol’s website. D’Costa organised an international conference on Buddhist-Christian dual
belonging, resulting in publications by D’Costa and Gethin. Gethin, Langer and Lomi organized
the annual UK Association for Buddhist Studies Conference (UKABS), June 2018 on the theme
Buddhism and Material Culture, featuring international scholars and PhD students working on the
topic from the perspective of Art History, Anthropology, Religious Studies, Museology. Ferzoco
[RETH teaching staff] and Muessig organized Medieval Monks, Nuns, and Monastic Life, 21st
Biennial Symposium of the International Medieval Sermon Studies Society (IMSSS), July 2018,
which included an exhibition of medieval manuscripts on monastic preaching at Downside Abbey.
The conference exhibition led to Voices from the Cloister, the first public exhibition at Downside
Abbey co-curated by Ferzoco and Muessig with the Downside community (see ICS case).

These collaborative activities highlight what the REF2014 Panel noted as RETH’s ‘imaginative
interdisciplinary methods’, which include ethnography, history, philosophy, theology, philology,
lexicography and visual studies. RETH’s approaches invite wider public engagement with the

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
implications and benefits of its research. This is apparent in the formats in which our
research/impact has been mediated: blogs (Leech), exhibitions (Muessig), film (Langer), poetry
(D’Costa), public discussions on public policy and religion (Gethin), magazine articles (D’Costa).
(D’Costa). RETH’s more traditional publications formats have been translated into several
languages, including Chinese and Korean (Balserak), Chinese, Dutch, Hungarian, Italian and
Polish (D’Costa), Italian (Muessig) and Hebrew and Spanish (Gethin).

Future Plans
The four thematic interests that define the Department’s research/impact and its distinctive
composition of Judaeo-Christian and Buddhist studies scholars will inform RETH’s enterprises as
individuals and teams in the next REF cycle. RETH will 1) ensure that staff at every stage of their
career are supported in research/impact plans through robust research rotas and institutional
support; 2) develop projects that bridge its two research groupings of Judeo-Christian and Buddhist
studies; 3) appoint staff to maintain and develop significant areas in its research agenda; 4)
introduce a Faculty-wide research cluster; 5) increase postgraduate researcher (PGR) recruitment.

    1. RETH will ensure that its staff at every stage of their career are supported in their
        research/impact plans
A rigorous implementation of study leaves along with grant capture has facilitated RETH’s outputs
and this will be maintained. Lomi’s funded research leave (2019-2020) allowed the exploration of
archives across Japan. Lomi’s study demonstrates the ritualistic context of healing drugs and the
social networks in which these drugs were embedded, thereby offering a comprehensive insight
into premodern Japanese Buddhism and its sacred economies. Gethin’s research leave 2019-20
has enabled him to produce a draft of Buddhist Maps of the Mind and Body: A study of Indian
Buddhist thought in the Theravāda, Sarvāstivāda and Yogācāra Abhidharma, for OUP. Balserak’s
study leave in 2020-21 lays the groundwork for his monograph Geneva’s Use of Lies, Evasion, and
Deception in their Efforts to Reform France, 1536–1563, which considers the use of dissimulation
and espionage in the name of religious reform. D’Costa’s study leave (2020-21), will work on two
chapters for his third volume on Catholic theology of religions stemming from Vatican II. The
scope of these two projects makes a significant contribution to the Religion and Theological
Reform theme.

Looking to the future: Askin’s first research leave (2021-22) will be dedicated to the completion of
her second monograph: Medicine in Ancient Israel and Early Judaism, which challenges the
popularly espoused theory that a Hebrew/Israelite medical tradition is largely absent from the Bible.
Langer research leave in 2021-22 will lead to a draft of her monograph, Food Rituals in Sri Lankan
Buddhism, which includes working with untranslated texts (Pali and Sinhala). Lomi, Askin, Gethin
and Langer’s forthcoming monographs will highlight three of RETH’s research themes: Religion,
Medicine and Psychology; Religion and Ritual; and Religion and Texts. Leech’s study leave
in 2022-23 facilitates his completion of a monograph on religious emotion, while investigating a
potential impact project that explores the possible clinical usefulness of this research. He is
preparing a two-year AHRC Standard Research Grant bid - ‘Madness and Religion among the
Philosophers 1621-1689’ - to map conceptualisations of the relationship between religious emotion
and madness in the period.

All of RETH’s research/impact is supported with funding and advisory resources provided by
the School, Faculty and University (see below).



                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
     2. RETH will develop projects that bridge its two distinctive research clusters of
         Christian and Buddhist studies
Langer and Muessig submitted a £1M AHRC standard grant application entitled ‘Preaching in
Buddhism and Christianity: Transformational Pedagogies in Pre-Modern and Present-Day Asia and
Europe’. In the next REF cycle the Department will develop the interdisciplinarity between the two
religious clusters. Askin and Lomi are exploring the conceptualization of mental health in the pre-
modern world in Judeo-Christian and Asian religious traditions. They conducted workshops on
Madness and Mental Illness with colleagues across the Faculty and with external partners at
Exeter University. This project formed a bid to the Wellcome Trust (2019) and will now be
developed to apply to AHRC and Leverhulme Trust schemes. Askin and Lomi’s collaborative
interests build upon and crystalise departmental research pursued by Gethin, Deane and Leech
that falls under the theme Religion, Medicine and Psychology. At Faculty level it aligns with the
CHHS, and at University level its assessment of the history of health and wellbeing support the
values of the Elizabeth Blackwell Institute for Health Research (EBI).

    3. Appointment of staff to maintain and develop our research agendas
With Muessig’s departure to an endowed Chair (University of Calgary), and other possible
departures likely to happen over the next REF cycle, replacements will be appointed strategically
to build on RETH’s wide-ranging involvement in the Faculty, facilitating collaborative work in the
Abrahamic religions (Askin, Balserak, D’Costa), and in philosophy of religion (Gethin, Leech),
and strengthen its profile further in the areas of global and comparative religion.

    4. Development of a research cluster
The Faculty funds ‘research clusters’ that investigate a given theme across different Departments.
Four colleagues, Askin, Gethin, Leech and Lomi all work on mental health connections with their
own research. They participate in the work of the EBI and hope to develop collaboration. Such
clusters also support the PGR community, as participants and seminar leaders, to explore
innovative ideas.

   5. Increase PGR recruitment
With the publication of ground-breaking monographs and articles, an increase of synergies
between our two research clusters and a rich research culture we aim to increase PGR intake.



 2. People

Staffing Strategy
In the last REF cycle, appointments were made (Askin and Lomi) to enrich our internationally
recognised expertise in Buddhism and Judeo-Christianity. Staffing strategies are developed
keeping this core identity in mind alongside departmental, Faculty and University research themes.
In the next REF cycle, RETH will appoint an ECR replacement for Muessig to broaden and
develop one of its four research thematic groups. The Faculty of Arts currently has no
provision for this important intellectual religious tradition in any of its departments.

RETH’s strategic planning builds on the commitment of, and support offered by, the Faculty and
University (http://www.bristol.ac.uk/inclusion/supporting-our-staff/) to ensure that Equality,
Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) issues are considered in all practices. The focus is maintained
through participation in both School and Faculty EDI committees: matters raised at these meetings

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
are reported and discussed at Departmental meetings and vice versa. EDI matters are tabled at
School Planning and Resource Committees (SPARC), chaired by the Head of School, who then
takes them to Faculty Board chaired by the Dean. The Head of School also sits on the School EDI
committee to ensure issues are addressed.

RETH staff range from very early career to senior researchers: three professors (D’Costa, Gethin
and Muessig); three Senior Lecturers (Balserak, Langer and Leech); two Lecturers (Askin and
Lomi). Before Muessig’s departure (June 2020), the department’s configuration of full-time staff
consisted of four males and four females, three of whom came from North America; two from the
European Union and one from Africa and two from the UK. We are replacing Muessig with a
Pathway 1 to ensure early career candidates to sustain the discipline. Staffing goals are achieved
through Recruitment and selection training: this is mandatory for those involved in the interview
selection process. This includes discussion of what EDI means, and the legal framework, as well
as focusing on awareness of unconscious bias.

RETH offers the Returning Carers Scheme for those returning from parental/carer leave.
Parental/carer leave counts as one of the six semesters that need to be accrued before one can
(subject to approval) take a semester of research leave.

RETH offers maximum flexibility (Flexible working opportunities) where that does not conflict
with the requirements of delivering the teaching programme, aiming to support colleagues with
particular needs (e.g., offering reduction in FTE and concentrating teaching on particular days of
the week in order to support the needs of caring responsibilities or illness).

RETH’s REF submission represents our EDI ethos: submitted items demonstrate a balance of
junior, senior colleagues and genders.

Appointments Since REF2014
RETH’s recent appointments reflect its research strategy expressed in REF2014: RETH aims to
appoint the best researchers available who strengthen research interests across the Faculty and
University, and nationally and internationally. In 2016, Lomi replaced Greene, Lecturer in Chinese
Buddhism who departed in 2015 to take up a post at Yale. Lomi provides expertise in Buddhist
studies with specialisms in Chinese and Japanese religions, and complements the work of Langer
on Southeast Asian Buddhist rituals. Lomi’s concentration on East Asian Buddhism is a
counterpart to Gethin’s focus on South Asian Buddhism and Indian religions, which provides a
considerable geographical range and methodological diversity in our Buddhist Studies cluster.

In 2015, Lyons, former Reader in Biblical Interpretation, moved across the School of Humanities
into History to follow his interests in Colonial history. In 2018 Askin, lecturer in Jewish Studies,
replaced Campbell, a Senior Lecturer in Biblical Studies and Early Judaism (retired 2017). Askin
offers expertise in biblical and post-biblical texts in ancient Israel and Greco-Roman Judaism; she
also researches material aspects of literacy in Judaism and early Christianity. Her appointment
facilitates a continuity in research in biblical studies and early Judaism.

Postdoctoral Awardees
Dr Susannah Deane was awarded a British Academy three-year postdoctoral research fellowship
for her project, Madness, mental health and Buddhism: an examination of smyo nad (‘madness’) in
the Tibetan context, with Gethin as Principal Investigator (PI). Her research explores

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
contemporary religious and medical perspectives on the Tibetan concept of ‘madness’ and is
based on ethnographic fieldwork and an examination of Tibetan religious and medical texts. Her
methodology underlines the diversity of approaches used in this discipline. Deane’s specialism
restores Tibetan Buddhism to the Department since the retirement (2011) of Paul Williams,
Emeritus Professor of Tibetan Buddhism. Deane’s appointment followed Dr Kourilsky’s successful
completion of his Marie Curie Intra-European Fellowship Scheme with Gethin as PI; this project
focused on ancient Buddhist monastic texts from south-east Asia. Kourilsky is now the Director of
the Bangkok Centre of the École française d’Extrême-Orient.

Teaching Staff
Ferzoco has been a member of the Department’s teaching staff since 2007. He is a contributor in
RETH’s public engagement and ICS, working with Muessig on medieval monasticism and its
relation to cultural/religious heritage.

Staff Development
RETH offers effective staff development. In accordance with the Concordat to Support the
Career Development of Researchers and the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, staff are
fully supported at every level and at all stages of their careers, through several integrated systems
and structures. New staff receive inductions at departmental, School, Faculty and University level
to introduce them to their role and to make them aware of the support and organizational systems
available to them. At departmental level each new member of staff is assigned a mentor for the first
two years of employment. Thereafter, staff are encouraged to join a mentoring programme and
choose a mentor from within the Department or from across the Faculty.

Each member of staff has an Annual Research Review (ARR) where they discuss with two other
departmental colleagues the interviewee’s publications, current research and impact plans and
grant capture. ARRs allow an opportunity for colleagues to assess where they are presently and
where they want to be in the next year. For the ARRs, usually one interviewer is the HoD and
another interviewer is chosen either for his/her expertise in the subject under review or the overall
experience in grant writing, impact, and publications. In addition to the ARRs, each member of staff
has an annual Staff Review and Development (SR&D) meeting with the HoD where the reviewee
reflects on their work accomplished over the year. This allows each person to articulate career
aspirations and development prospects. (Career development can be taken forward by enrolling on
a number of courses the University of Bristol provides.) The discussion is entered online as a
personal record that is signed off by both the HoD and the interviewee and then the Head of
School. The HoD for their SR&D meets with the Head of School and the final record is read and
signed off by the Dean of Arts.

Departmental meetings are fortnightly. RETH’s compact size and frequency of meetings provide
ongoing opportunities for all members of staff to make contributions to the unit’s research strategy.
At departmental meetings, ARR, SR&D and in one-to-one meetings, the HoD encourages staff to
partake in research opportunities offered at Faculty level. [See section 3 for further details.]

Study leave arrangements
RETH is supported by the Faculty policy of study leave of one semester after six served, with
oversight to support grants capture and achievable plans. The latter is provided by the HoD, the
School Director of Research and RED to individuals ahead of their study leave application through
meetings, comments on draft applications and support for grant applications.

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)


Research funding and strategies for generating income
In making grant applications RETH members are supported by a dedicated Faculty team, based
across Finance, RED, and IT Services, who identify potential funding streams, develop bids with
academics, and provide extensive feedback on grants as they proceed. The Faculty’s Knowledge
Exchange team advises on the development of impact. Researchers at all levels receive support
from the Faculty, their home School and RED. All submissions go through the Research
Excellence Advisory Panel (REAP), and, where necessary the Faculty Research Ethics
Committee. This is a peer-review process jointly devised by Faculty and School research directors
and RED to support and mentor the individual through the application process to ensure the quality
of external bids. It is mandatory for all applications over £10k. All pathway 1 staff are members of
the REAP college, which facilitates knowledge sharing across disciplines.

Faculty Conference and Research Fund
The Faculty assists in the support of conference attendance and research activity for personal
research for members of staff whose research contributes to the REF research profile. For
example, in 2016, Muessig was awarded £900 to present a paper on female monastic preachers
at the 20th International Medieval Sermon Studies Society Symposium in St Augustine, Florida,
USA. In 2018, Langer was awarded £900 to for a research trip to Sri Lanka to investigate Sinhala
pamphlets and handbooks related to Theravāda ritual.

PGRs and funding REF 2021
Research students can apply for funding through the AHRC Block Grant Scheme, the South West
& Wales Doctoral Training Partnership (SWWDTP) and the University of Bristol Arts Scholarship.
During the current REF cycle RETH awarded 23 PhDs. Twelve of these were funded by
scholarships: 5 AHRC Block-Grant awards, 2 SWWDTPs and 5 government/charity awards. Six
RETH PhDs were overseas. Four were co-supervised with colleagues in Drama, History, History of
Art and Music. During REF2021, RETH awarded 6 MPhils, 2 were overseas students and 1 was
co-supervised in History. Presently, RETH have 13 PhDs, 2 are overseas, 3 are SWWDTP funded
and 1 has a University of Bristol Scholarship. For 2 of the 3 SWWDTP studentships, the lead
supervisor is from RETH. We currently have 1 MPhil student.

    1. Each postgraduate student is assigned two supervisors
In some cases, the supervision is 50/50 where both supervisors provide equivalent expertise and
support. One supervisor is designated as the lead supervisor. They take responsibility for
procedural matters such as monitoring progress to the point of submission, arranging suitable
assessors for the upgrade assessment and arrangements for the appointment of examiners in
agreement with the HoD. In cases when a second supervisor does not have exact expertise they
serve as a ‘secondary supervisor’ and provide guidance to the student in the wider domain of study
in which the research is taking place, and/or on particular aspects of the research in which the
secondary supervisor has expertise. Supervisory meetings normally take place once a month.
D’Costa, Leech and Muessig have served as second supervisors to students in other UoA’s.

   2. PhD students are reviewed annually through the Annual Programme Review
       (APR) process
The student provides an outline of the proposed thesis and a plan for completion to upgrade and to
proceed. The student has his/her work read by two independent reviewers from the department
who are not the student’s supervisors. The independent reviewers provide feedback on progress

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
for both the student, the supervisors, and Graduate Education Director. At departmental level all
PGRs, in addition to having co-supervisors, can seek mentoring from the HoD. The School also
provides Senior Tutors who can offer counselling and direct students to other support services.

     3. The Department runs fortnightly Religion and Theology Research seminars that are
         organised expressly for our postgraduate students
These feature outside speakers. Occasionally departmental and faculty staff and research students
are presenters. The expectation is that all RETH postgraduate students attend and participate in a
30-minute Q&A that follows each 60-minute presentation. There is a regular slot for PGRs to
give papers at the department’s Research Seminar. Students are encouraged to give papers at
national and international PGR conferences. PGRs are supported in the development of their own
international networks, and in running national and international conferences in collaboration with
staff and PGRs at other universities. Research students are expected to present at our annual
joint postgraduate conference in Religion and Theology. In May 2020, it was organised
virtually. The joint conference, established 25 years ago at Bristol, includes the participation of
Bristol, Cardiff, Exeter and Gloucester. Students give a 20-minute paper, followed by a 10-minute
Q&A, chaired by an academic from one of the four participating universities. After the event, Bristol
students are given feedback by their supervisor.

     4. The Department creates initiatives to enable supervisory as well as peer learning
D’Costa runs a monthly seminar group where one PGR or a member of staff presents a paper that
is circulated in advance and discussed in detail for 1.5 hours. The Buddhist Studies cluster has a
weekly coffee hour for postgraduate and MAs students to have informal exchanges about research
and projects. Students are encouraged to organise reading groups that will provide peer
learning to share and improve their research skills. Sutcliffe (AHRC, graduated 2017) ran a
medieval Latin reading group (2014-2017) for staff and research students across the Arts Faculty.
In 2018, Gale (SSWDTP-funded) instituted a faculty Middle English reading group for students and
staff that meets fortnightly. At University level the Bristol Doctoral College (BDC) automatically
enrols PGR students upon their arrival. BDC offers workshops, training days and professional
training through every step of our research students’ programme.

RETH offers regular paid opportunities for teaching and marking, along with specialist
training, related to Impact and Research in which students can publish research that is associated
with impact activities (see Ferzoco/Muessig ICS).

The Graduate Research Centre (34 Tyndalls Park Road) is a designated space for PGRs in the
Faculty of Arts, offering a supportive and enriching environment in which research students can
attend lectures or seminars, conduct individual study and meet other postgraduates from other
disciplines.

    5. Professional Development Activities for PGRs
The Graduate Education Director and University of Bristol Alumni Foundation have separate
funding pots for postgraduate conference attendance and planning. Students can apply to
these sources which will enable them to gain experience in subject specific skills as well as gain
the practical experience in the organization of conferences. Students are offered teacher training,
leading to formal accreditation.




                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Intellectual exchange with postgraduates in other universities is encouraged through formal
links nationally and regionally (through the GW4 research alliance, and AHRC SWW DTP).
Between 2014-16 Muessig’s GW4 Medieval Studies bid (with Wei, History) facilitated ongoing
workshops, conferences and study groups for PGRs across Bristol, Exeter and Cardiff universities.
RETH and CMS have funded conferences organised by RETH PGRs.

The effectiveness of PGR professional development is underlined by the success of RETH
graduates in the REF2021 cycle who have taken up national and international posts in academia
and related fields including: Dr Dag, Theology Lecturer, Sakarya University, Adapazari, Turkey; Dr
Arcadi, Assistant Professor of Biblical and Systematic Theology, Trinity International University,
Deerfield, IL, USA; Dr Norman, Research Fellow, Australian Catholic University, Melbourne; Dr
Farris, Associate Professor of Metaphysics, Houston Baptist University, Texas, USA; Dr Grey,
Associate Professor of Catholic Theology, Durham University; Dr Faircloth, Associate Professor of
Intercultural Studies, Palm Beach Atlantic University, Fla, USA; Dr Levy, Head of Operations for
Faith Forum London. Leo Baeck College; Dr Maneewattana, Assistant Professor, Dean of the
Faculty of Fine and Applied Arts, Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University, Bangkok; Rev. Dr Morris-
Chapman, Director, Methodist Ecumenical Centre Rome, Italy; Dr Rondilino, Associate Dean of the
Arts and Sciences, Carroll University, Wukesha WI, USA; Dr Sutcliffe, Postdoctoral Fellow, British
School at Rome; Dr Thorn, Journals Executive at Policy Press, University of Bristol.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

The University of Bristol is enhancing its infrastructure to improve the facilities available to staff and
students across the Faculty of Arts. A new £103 million library will be erected within the heart of the
Faculty of Arts. This will include exhibition spaces, digital 3D printing, reading rooms and a cultural
collections centre to give access to the University’s world-class collections of historic books,
archives and the Theatre Collection. A new Humanities Hub building was completed in January
2020; it contains large lecture theatres, studies, seminar rooms that are used by RETH, and an
exhibition centre.

Part of the sustainability of RETH’s research agenda results from internal and external funding and
institutional support provided to assist in the preparation of grant applications.

Internal Funding
    1. Research and Public Engagement
The Department sustains and promotes its research profile on an international stage through the
organization of a dynamic array of conferences, workshops and public engagement events which
are supported by the Arts Faculty. Up until 2017 BIRTHA (Bristol Institute for Research in
Humanities and Arts) funded Faculty initiatives such as workshops, conferences and postgraduate
conferences. In 2017 The Faculty Research Director took over the overseeing of funding of
conferences, workshops and Research clusters. In April 2018, the Faculty Research Office was
established, with the appointment of three permanent members of staff, to nurture and embed a
culture of research and impact across the Faculty. The Research Office is led by the Research
Impact and Knowledge Exchange Manager, who has responsibility for championing impact,
knowledge exchange and partnerships, and provides support through mentoring, training and
sharing of best practice, developing a series of online toolkits and guidance for impact and
knowledge exchange.

                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)


BIRTHA funded (£1490) RETH’s international and collaborative workshop Dual belonging and the
future of religious identity (15 June 2014), organized by D’Costa. BIRTHA funded (£1000) the
conference Dante and Origins (organisers Ferzoco and Kay [Italian Department]), 16 December
2016. In 2015-2016, BIRTHA (£1300) and the Bristol Alumni Foundation (£2050) funded RETH’s
50th anniversary celebrations, ending with a large public lecture on March 2016 given by the former
Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr Rowan Williams. The Faculty Research Director awarded £2000 to
fund the organization of two international conferences hosted by RETH in 2018 UKABS, Buddhism
and Material Culture (organizers Gethin, Langer and Lomi) and Medieval Monks, Nuns, and
Monastic Life, IMSSS (organisers Ferzoco and Muessig).

    2. Internal Funding to Support Interdisciplinarity
Muessig submitted with Wei (History) two successful GW4 applications, an initiator grant (£2,542)
and an accelerator grant (£45,715) in 2014 under the banner of GW4 Medieval Studies. These
grants enabled research clusters of medievalists at the Universities of Bristol, Cardiff and Exeter to
develop grant proposals as a team in the fields of medieval literature, history and language. In
2016 Muessig, with Dr Tristan Kay (Italian), secured funding from the Institute of Advanced
Studies to, co-host the Benjamin Meaker Visiting Professor Alessandro Vettori (Fordham
University), whose research interests cut across the fields of religion, literature, Italian and
medieval studies. In 2017 the Faculty of Arts ran a competition to create funded research Centres
with the aim of consolidating, expanding, and promoting cross-faculty research strengths. Muessig
and Wei submitted a successful bid to establish a Faculty Centre for Medieval Studies,
which is given a £5,000 p.a. budget for five years to run a variety of research activities,
including research impact. [See Section 4]. The CMS is one of six centres established in 2017
that promote individual and collective research excellence from across the Faculty of Arts. The
others are: Centre for Black Humanities; Centre for Environment Studies; CHHS; CMT; and Centre
for Science and Philosophy.

The Institute of Greece, Rome and the Classical Tradition (IGRCT) supports a wide range of topics
that are broadly associated with the classical tradition. To this end, the IGRCT funded (£400)
D’Costa’s Dual Belonging conference. It funded Ferzoco and Muessig’s (£1200) Medieval
Monks, Nuns, and Monastic Life, IMSSS. The IGRCT has funded staff/postgraduate research
reading groups on Petrarch and theology.

    3. Internal Funding for Impact
RETH staff received Faculty funding initiatives to support their impact agenda. At University level,
Muessig received £4000 in 2017 from RED’s Arts Impact Accelerator Fund to assist with her
and Ferzoco’s ICS. The funding enabled Ferzoco and Muessig to curate the exhibition and to
assist the Downside monastic community in the organization of the Abbey’s first ever public
exhibition in situ of some of its medieval monastic holdings. In 2018, D’Costa was awarded £800
from the Faculty of Arts REF 2021 Impact Fund to test new resources for non-academic
beneficiaries and to engage with groups of stakeholders in relation to his impact case Engaging the
Religious ‘Other’. Building Best Practice and setting national standards in interfaith dialogue in
Churches and Schools. REF 2021 Evidencing Impact Fund awarded D’Costa £780 to hire an
assistant to collect and analyse data for his ICS. In July 2018, the Faculty of Arts Research
Internship scheme award Muessig £300 to fund her PhD student Gale to transcribe and
catalogue a medieval manuscript at Downside Abbey. This manuscript featured in the exhibition. In
2019, the Impact Fund supported a studentship (£500) to assist Ferzoco and Muessig in curating

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
the exhibition Bibles of Downside Abbey. These initiatives were provided with careful guidance
from the University’s RED team and the Faculty Research Office led by the Research Impact and
Knowledge Exchange Manager.

External Funding
    1. Conferences
Colleagues also apply to external funding bodies to support conferences. D’Costa received £1000
from the Spalding Trust for his Dual Belonging conference. Lomi secured funding (£1200) from the
Japanese Foundation to pay for the travel expenses for the keynote speaker at the UK Blue Shield
Conference. D’Costa secured $USD 50,000 from Philos for an international conference held in
Jerusalem on Catholics and the Land (July2019). [See section 4].

    2. External Funding Individual Research
Bristol grant applications are supported by Finance, RED, and IT Services who assist in identifying
potential funding streams, develop bids with academics and provide extensive, invaluable
feedback on grants as they proceed. Grant writers are provided with an academic mentor to assist
with their grant applications. The Faculty operates a Research Excellence Assessment Panel
(REAP). Knowledge Exchange Managers advise colleague about their impact statements.
Colleagues are provided with support through grant-writing retreats, specific training events include
Funder Mock Panels and workshops on funding. The Faculty Research Office give support in the
development of impact cases. This infrastructure of support has resulted in grant capture: D’Costa
(PI) secured a Leverhulme Research Fellowship [£20,416.00, 1/9/17-31/7/18] for his monograph
project, Judaism after the second Vatican council, 1965–2015. Gethin (PI) submitted by Deane for
a (British Academy) BA Postdoctoral Fellowship 2016, Madness, mental health and Buddhism: an
examination of smyo nad ('madness') in the Tibetan context [£256,998.00, 1/10/17 → 30/09/20,
plus 43,557 covid extra time]. Gethin (PI) received a Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation Research
Fellowship, [(£54,055), 1/10/16 → 30/06/17] to research a monograph on the Abhidharma.
Gethin’s study considers Buddhist systematic thought as formulated in the Abhidharma using
sources in Sanskrit and Pali (some of which have never been translated into a European language)
from a comparative perspective. Langer (PI) was awarded a BA Small [£5884, 1/04/14 → 1/10/14]
Feeding Humans and Non-Humans in Theravada Buddhism. This project studies the relationship
in a series of short documentaries in mixed medium (film, stills, sounds) of the relationship
between the living and the dead in Southeast Asia by way of food offerings or feasts. This aspect
of Langer’s research makes up part of crucial component of RETH’s research theme Religion
and Ritual.

Other funding successes include, Leech (Chief Investigator (CI)) as key researcher and project
leader on the Cambridge Platonists at the origins of Enlightenment: texts, debates, and reception
(1650-1730) (Cambridge University Lead, total £666,777: Bristol award £267,392.00 01/09/16-
01/09/19). This study looks at the neglected Cambridge Platonists, the most important school of
Platonic philosophers between the Italian Renaissance and the Romantic Age. The project
produced the digital open access Cambridge Platonism Sourcebook that is based on hitherto
unedited manuscripts.

As indicated in Section 1, the Department has ongoing plans for grants and funding that build upon
and enhance its research foci.



                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Many of the Department’s activities are contingent on internal and external collaborations within
and outside of academe. Colleagues create opportunities for impact through the employment of
diverse media in the dissemination of their research.

International Collaborations
In 2018, Lomi co-edited a special issue of the Japanese Journal of Religious Studies with Dr
Caroline Hirasawa (Waseda University, Japan). D’Costa organized an international conference
with Dr Faydra Schapiro, Director - Israel Center for Jewish-Christian Relations, Tel Hai College,
Gallilee, Israel on Catholic Thought and the Land/State of Israel, with a $50,000 grant from Philos,
USA (June 2019). D’Costa is a founding member of the international Society for Post-
Supersessionist Theology, a theme that is central to D’Costa’s research on Christian/Jewish
relations. In 2021–2022 D’Costa will be Aquinas Chair, Angelicum, Rome (this was due to occur
in 2020-21 but was postponed because of the pandemic). Whilst there, he will organise an
international conference with Etienne Veto, Professor of Theology at the Pontifical Gregorian
University and Professor Thomas Joseph White at the Thomistic Institute, Angelicum on the topic
of ‘Catholic and Jews on the Land of Israel’. From January to March 2020 Rupert Gethin was
Khyentse Foundation Visiting Professor in the Department of Pali and Buddhist Studies,
Savitribai Phule Pune University, where he led seminars related to his forthcoming book, Buddhist
Maps of the Mind and Body (OUP) and read the Pali Mahāpadāna-sutta alongside its Sanskrit
parallel, the Mahāvadāna-sūtra. While in India he delivered three lectures at the University of
Calcutta.

National and Internal Collaborations
The Faculty has a widespread and well-established interdisciplinary culture as witnessed by the
vibrant exchange between several Departments. In 2014, Muessig and Wei (History) formed
Medieval Studies GW4 (Section 3) consisting of nearly 65 medievalists from Bristol, Exeter and
Cardiff belonging to the Departments of Archaeology, English, French, History, History of Art, Law,
Italian, Music, Religion and Theology. In 2017, Muessig and Wei (History) established Bristol’s
CMS (Section 3) as one of six Faculty Centres and became its co-directors. CMS has over 30
members of staff and 20 PhD students across the Faculty and funds postgraduate speakers,
visiting speakers, conferences, workshops, and study days.

Staff are involved with other faculty research themes and clusters. Gethin participated in Professor
Havi Carel’s (Philosophy) project Breathing and Breathlessness, taking part in a panel discussion,
and contributing a paper on mindfulness to the Life of Breath research group. He participated in a
workshop on Buddhist mindfulness of breathing to the Life of Breath ‘Feel It Festival’, again
organised by Carel. Gethin presented in the GW4 series on religion and law (organised by Gleave,
Exeter): ‘Keeping the Buddha’s rules: notes on Buddhist monastic law’, Understanding Religion
and Law (GW4 funded).

D’Costa developed an ongoing colloborative theology/poetry-music partnership with Professor
John Pickard (Music Departemnt, Bristol) on two projects leading to two recordings of the outputs
and public performances. D'Costa wrote the poem 'Daughters of Zion' (Christian-Jewish issues)
which was put to music by Pickard; first performance, Victoria Rooms, Bristol, 2017 with Angharad
Lyddon (Mezzo-Soprano), conducted by Mark Forkgen. The soundtrack was recorded and


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
published by Bardic Edition. The second colloboration has been D'Costa's poem, 'Mass for the
Uncertain' (Christian-Muslim issues) put to music by Pickard (2018) and has been performed by
the BBC Choral Singers (2019). The soundtrack was recorded and published in 2020. This reflects
his concern to develop outreach in non-theological formats of religious themes.

The Department actively engages with three of the six collaborative Faculty Centres. Askin,
Deane, Gethin and Lomi are members of the CHHS. Askin and Lomi are members of CMT.
Balserak, Muessig and Lomi are members of the CMS.

Contributions to Research Base
RETH colleagues are recognized for their outstanding research through special conferences
dedicated to their work, keynote invitations and public lectures. In 2015 at the University of Leuven,
a half day conference was dedicated to D’Costa’s monograph, Vatican II: Catholic Doctrines on
Jews and Muslims and in 2020, an American Academy of Religion (AAR) panel on his book on
Catholic doctrines on Jews after Vatican II. D’Costa has given international keynote lectures (e.g.
Amsterdam, Budapest, Rome, Boston, Jerusalem, New York and Uppsala) related to his research
and impact on Vatican II, including in 2019 the Gershom Lectures on Judaism and Christianity, at
Hillsdale College (Michigan, USA). Gethin has given keynote public lectures across the world,
including: Karma, consciousness and cosmology in Indian Buddhist thought, CEU, Budapest,
Hungary November 2017; and in 2018 he gave the Evans-Wetz Lecture at Stanford University
(USA), entitled On death and rebirth, and what happens in between: two Buddhist accounts of why
it matters. Leech was keynote speaker at the conference Facets of “Participation” in the
Renaissance and the Early Modern Period in Bucharest, Romania, 19-21 April 2018. Lomi was
invited to present her work on premodern Japanese healing practices to the general public as part
of the 2017–18 History of Pre-Modern Medicine seminar series at the Wellcome Trust. Muessig as
Trinity Long Room Hub, Visiting Research Fellow, Trinity College Dublin gave a public lecture,
Responses to a most unusual miracle: the stigmata in the Middle Ages, 18 November 2014. She
gave a public lecture on ‘Women in Motion: Performing the Bible in the Late Middle Ages’ at the
Museum of the Bible, Washington D.C., 22 March 2018; she gave a keynote lecture at the
international conference Medieval Mystical Theology in Dialogue with Contemporary Thought,
Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Belgium, 31 May 2018 and spoke on Signs of leadership: women
and invisible stigmata in the late Middle Ages. Leech is in discussion with Mike Jackson (Research
Director, North Wales Clinical Psychology Unit - part-time clinical) to organise workshops on
patients’ experiences of compassion and shared loving feelings. Askin’s book Scribal Culture in
Ben Sira won the British Association for Jewish Studies 2020 Book Prize (£500) in the early career
category.

Colleagues make a contribution through their editorial work. D’Costa is series editor of Religion
and the University, Bloomsbury (since 2012) and on Brill’s board serving the series Currents of
Encounter (since 2014). Gethin is co-editor of the Journal of the Pali Text Society and the
President of the Pali Text Society (since 2003). Lomi has acted as guest editor of Japanese
Journal of Religious Studies (issue 45, 2019). Muessig was Encyclopaedia of the Bible and Its
Reception, Section Editor for medieval entries, de Gruyter (2010-2017) and co-Series Editor,
Routledge Studies in Medieval Religion and Culture (1999–).

Partnership
In 2017, Muessig, with the Director of Heritage at Downside Abbey, facilitated the University of
Bristol’s signing of the Memorandum of Understanding with Downside Abbey. RETH is a leading

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
partner in the University’s partnership with Downside. Ferzoco and Muessig worked closely with
Downside Abbey Library and its heritage team and monastic community assisting them in their
endeavour to become a beacon of monastic heritage. Ferzoco gave training classes to volunteers
at Downside on handling manuscripts and precious books. Muessig organised PhD placements
between Downside and the University of Bristol, where students training to become curators,
archivists and medievalists work on the cataloguing of premodern manuscripts. Ferzoco and
Muessig organized Downside’s first public exhibition on medieval monastic books and material
culture. This forms one of RETH’s ICS.

Wider Activities and Contributions
In November 2015 Langer featured her documentary film ‘A Buddhist Cosmology in Food' at the
Arnolfini, Bristol, during the InsideArts: Festival of the Arts and Humanities. During the InsideArts
Festival, Gethin and Leech’s work was featured in a panel discussion, 'Buddhism, Mindfulness
and Being Human'. Since 2015, D’Costa, through his research impact, has galvanized the
organization of an annual Catholic-Jewish-Muslim trialogue during interfaith week, which has
established Clifton Diocese as a key model for good practice regarding Catholic interfaith relations
with Jews and Muslims. Balserak gave an interview on Muslim-Christian relations on ‘Voice of
Islam Radio’ (www.voiceofislam.co.uk) on 7 February 2018. The interview focused primarily on
points of similarity between Christianity and Islam. Balserak was interviewed on 28 September
2018 by Premier Christianity magazine about the impact John Calvin has had on the UK today,
culturally, politically, religiously, and in relation to the arts. Ferzoco and Muessig organized two
public exhibitions on medieval monasticism and material culture, Voices from the Cloister and the
Bibles of Downside Abbey at Downside Abbey. On 15 September 2019, Muessig gave a 25-
minute interview on Slovenian National Radio regarding the medieval holy woman Catherine of
Siena. On 25 April, Leech was interviewed by BBC Radio Bristol regarding faith as a form of
comfort in times of crisis.

RETH has established complementary research themes that maximise its potential to produce
pioneering studies that attract grant capture, PGR students and international recognition. Bristol’s
institutional mechanism of guidance and funding have enabled RETH to develop a creative
approach to the study of Religion and Theology that is witnessed in its fertile publications, the
development of staff excellence, and the training of the next generation of researchers.




                                                                                             Page 15
