Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: Liverpool John Moores University
 Unit of Assessment: UOA 20
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context
 The membership of this UOA is largely located within a newly constituted School of Justice Studies
 (SJS), which was established in August 2019, bringing the cognate areas of Policing, Criminal
 Justice and Criminology together in one school, with membership also drawn from the School of
 Humanities and Social Science (HSS) and the School of Education (SoE). In effect, the UOA has
 expanded and diversified within the assessment period to include 28 members whose research
 extends along a continuum of interests from Critical Criminology to applied Policing Studies.

 Unit Structure
 The research environment in the SJS is structured via its two research centres: the Centre for the
 Study of Crime, Criminalisation and Social Exclusion (CCSE) with diverse interests and a
 commitment to critical social science and the Liverpool Centre for Advanced Policing Studies
 (LCAPS), which focuses on contemporary issues in policing and broader human security domains.

 The CCSE was founded in 2010, and formally launched in February 2011 via its inaugural
 research seminar delivered by Danny Dorling on ‘Injustice, inequality, harm, crime and criminality’.
 Since 2014, strategic leadership of the CCSE has been provided by its Co-Directors, Sim and
 Monk and membership extends to 32 members. Membership is primarily derived from academics
 working in the Criminology department but also includes academics working in the departments
 of Criminal Justice, Education and Sociology. The CCSE is structured around the following
 research clusters:

    -   Artivism (Hayes, Jackson, Murray and Wakeman)
    -   Drug Use and Drug Policy (Beckett-Wilson, Taylor and Wakeman)
    -   Children and Youth (Greenhow, Jamieson, Kay-Flowers, Shaw and Tickle)
    -   Cultural Criminology (Wakeman)
    -   Gender, Violence, and the Criminal Justice System (Barr, Jackson, Monk, Standing)
    -   Policing and Security (Chistyakova, Jackson, Monk and Sabir)
    -   Prisons and Punishment (Barr, Gosling, McGowan, Ragonese and Sim)
    -   Voluntary and Third Sector (Allen, Barrett, Metcalf and Ogden)

 LCAPS was awarded LJMU Research Centre status in 2015. Strategic leadership is provided by
 its Director, Silverstone, and it has 26 members derived from academics working within Policing
 and Security Studies and Criminal Justice comprising the following research clusters:

    -   Domestic Violence (Towers)
    -   Evidence Based Policing and Practice (Boulton, Carr, James, Millings, Ojo, Panter,
        Selby-Fell, Silverstone; Watkinson)
    -   Covert Policing, Intelligence and Intelligence Analysis (James, Ridley, Stanier)
    -   Serious and Organised Crime (Eski, Silverstone, James, Murphy, Stanier)




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research objectives during the assessment period
 The CCSE and LCAPS promote research as a core activity for members, in accordance with
 LJMU’s strategic maps for 2012-17 and 2017-22, and significant progress has been made towards
 achieving the research plans outlined in the REF 2014 submission which were to:

   I.   Facilitate rigorous, critical, inter-disciplinary research on and around crime,
        criminalisation and social exclusion
 Rigorous and critical scholarship produced within the auspices of the CCSE and LCAPS has
 focused on a range of theoretical issues, via a focus on the state, violence, victimology and queer
 criminology; contributed to debates on research methodology and method, via the development
 of auto-ethnography and the use of photovoice; and produced policy recommendations at local,
 national and international levels. This has included studies and outputs on a diverse range of
 issues including: deaths in custody, youth justice, policing, housing, violence against women and
 girls, reducing reoffending, probation reform, arts-based interventions in the criminal justice
 system, masculinity, aging, ‘transgender cops’, veterans and offending, drug policy, children in
 care, political violence, revenge pornography, modern slavery, rape culture, child sexual abuse,
 counter-terrorism, serious and organised crime and intelligence led policing.

 An indication of the quality of scholarship produced is reflected in staff winning awards and
 recognition for their scholarship. For example, Millings received a Merseyside Police Chief
 Officer's Commendation in September 2017 'For professionalism and commitment to supporting the
 development of police officers and staff through evidence-based research thus creating a more
 efficient and effective service for the communities of Merseyside’. In 2018, Tickle received the ‘Highly
 Commended Award’ for the paper ‘Ethnographic research with young people: methods and rapport’,
 Emerald Publishing Limited, Literati Qualitative Research Journal. While in 2020, Towers received an
 ‘Excellent in Analysis’ award from the International Law Enforcement Intelligence Analysts
 (https://www.ialeia.org/).

 Within the CCSE, Wakeman’s work on the use of autoethnographic methods in criminology has
 attracted considerable attention in the scholarly community leading to his being invited to lead a
 ‘masterclass’ session for the British Society of Criminology conference in 2017 and to be a keynote
 speaker at the British Society of Aesthetics in 2019. Sim’s work on deaths in custody and abolition
 elicited invites to speak at a number of British Society of Criminology events and conferences (in
 2014 and 2015), the Sites of Resistance Conference (2015) and to deliver a public lecture on ‘Help
 Me Please’: Terror, Trauma and Self Inflected Death in Prison at the University of Strathclyde in
 2019.

 Within LCAPS, Silverstone’s work on trafficking/smuggling of Vietnamese people and China has
 been featured in the Conversation, the BBC Today programme, Sky News and the Times, in 2018
 and 2019. Silverstone has also delivered keynote addresses to a mixture of practitioners, decision
 makers and academics at, the Home Office (2018) and Foreign Office (2019), Scottish Centre for
 Crime and Justice Research (2018), University College London (2019), at the Gulf Cooperation
 Council conference held in Bahrain (2019), the Serious and Organised Crime Exchange
 conference in 2017 and again in 2017, when with Dr Claire Brickell their report was launched at
 the House of Lords.

  II.   Provide an inclusive forum to support and develop research careers at all levels and
        to consolidate individual research excellence in publication


                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Of prime importance here is the approach to mentoring, which has proved significant in
 encouraging and supporting colleagues in the pursuit of research and outputs. For example, in his
 role as Co-Director of the CCSE, Sim has worked closely with Barr, Hodgson and Sabir,
 commenting upon proposals and chapter drafts, at key points in the development of their
 monographs. Likewise Monk has worked alongside and supported the efforts of three of our GTAs
 (Atkinson, Huber and Tucker) in editing ‘Voices of Resistance’, published by the CCSE in July
 2017 (Mentoring is discussed further in Section 2).


 Also significant was the establishment of ‘Shut up and Write’ sessions in January 2017. Set up
 and convened by Metcalf these sessions provide a quiet and dedicated space for all CCSE
 members, from post-grad students to professors, to meet and write. The prime purpose is to write,
 but they also provide peer support for participants via goal setting, public accountability and
 reflection, for example via sharing barriers and solutions to writing for examination and publication
 purposes. The sessions were convened regularly, at times on a weekly basis, consistently
 attracting between 5 to 10 participants, from a mailing list of 20 colleagues, with 12 colleagues
 participating in a writing retreat at Gladstones Library in 2018. Sessions have been virtually co-
 ordinated over 2020 in line with Covid restrictions. Colleagues have worked on a range of writing
 commitments within these sessions including thesis chapters, conference papers, research
 funding bids, ethics applications, books, book chapters and journal articles. Select examples of
 the outputs worked on in these sessions include:
 Barr, U. (2019) Desisting Sisters: Gender, Power and Desistance in the Criminal (In)Justice System.
        London: Palgrave Macmillan.
 Hogdson, J. (2017) Feminising Restorative Justice: A Critical Exploration of Offending Girls'
       Experiences of Participating in Restorative Justice Conferences (PhD Thesis).
 Metcalf, L. & Tickle, S. (2019) Voluntary Organisations working with children and young people,
       QR bid to the Faculty of Arts and Professional Studies (successful).
 Monk, H., Jackson, W. & Gilmore, J. (2019) ‘Gendering Pacification: Policing Women at Anti-
       Fracking Protests’, Feminist Review, 122 :64-79.
 Speed, C. (2018) Secrecy and Denial in Matters of Life and Death: A Critical Analysis of Deaths
       in Psychiatric Detention, 1845-2018 (PhD Thesis).

  III.   Consolidate further the Centre’s regional presence and develop its national and
         international recognition
 The seminar series convened by the CCSE, attended by students, staff, community groups,
 community activists and members of the policing community, make an important contribution to
 this objective. Noteworthy CCSE seminars include: the Robert King and Albert Woodfox, ‘Angola
 3’ seminar in November 2016 which was attended by 350 internal and external guests; the Thomas
 Tonatiuh Lopez, ‘Resisting the Dakota Access Pipeline at Standing Rock’ seminar, in May 2017,
 organised in partnership with Liverpool’s Writing on the Wall Festival and Liverpool Hope
 University, which was attended by 50 guests; and the seminar ‘Grenfell Revisited the struggle for
 truth, justice and accountability and justice’ seminar, in October 2018, with contributions from
 Steve Tombs, Sheila Coleman, and Dave Whyte which was attended by 60 guests. It is important
 to note that these seminars have become a focal point for academics, students and activists to
 come together to discuss and debate the latest social issues of significant public and political
 concern and offer solutions to challenges of the 21st century. During 2020 the CCSE’s
 dissemination activities have continued via its blog https://ccseljmu.wordpress.com/ The blog has
 been visited by people from 27 countries, including the UK.


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since its inception in 2015, LCAPS has delivered bespoke Continuing Professional Development
 (CPD) days attended by serving officers from forces across the country, on the subjects of:
 ‘Achieving Excellence in Rape Investigation’; ‘Cybercrime and the Use of Digital and Social Media
 in Investigation’; ‘Policing corruption within Modern Day Law enforcement’ and ‘Policing Knife
 Crime’. It has also hosted ‘masterclasses’ facilitated by Alison Saunders, then Director of the
 Crown Prosecution Service; Andre Rebello OBE, Senior Coroner for the Liverpool and Wirral Area
 and Michael Topolski, QC. The bi-annual Chief Constable’s Lectures regularly attracts attendance
 from at least 150+ students, interested members of the public and serving officers. LCAPS has
 also delivered training to the Police Ombudsman for Northern Ireland (2018) and to Sri Lankan
 law enforcement agencies on the subject of digital investigation. In 2018, LCAPS presented case
 studies of its work at SOCE X, the International Policing Conference (delivered by the Foreign and
 Commonwealth Office and the UK’s College of Policing) and also presented at the ‘Criminal,
 Dangerous and Anti- Social use of Motorcycles’ Conference. LCAPS also had a sizable presence
 at the second General Conference of the European Consortium for Political Research, Standing
 Group on Organised Crime and established a strategic partnership with the Norwegian Police
 University College (NPUC) as a key partner for the consolidation of its model of university
 education for the police service.

 IV.    Develop further and consolidate impact activities
 The development and consolidation of impact activities have proved a significant focus of our
 activities since 2014. The UOA secured a successful record of accomplishment on social impacts
 for REF2014. The REF 2014 impact case studies have provided important exemplars and
 reference points, which, alongside our review of other case studies available via the REF website,
 have stimulated and enacted ongoing impact activities. Social impact has also been supported by
 the mentorship, advice and guidance provided by the co-directors of the CCSE (Sim and Monk)
 informally to members of the CCSE and formally via contributions to the HSS Research Days
 (17/09/18 & 17/10/18); an Arts, Professional and Social Studies (APS) Faculty Forum (10/10/18)
 and a Faculty Research Day (08/11/18).

 Specifically, with regard to the ICSs submitted as part of this UOA, the VV-Impact Tracker
 workshops organised by Research Innovation Services, and convened by the VV-Impact Tracker
 Consultants was to prove significant in initiating the recording and writing in relation to Jackson
 and Monks’ and Barrett et al’s ICSs. In his role as CCSE Co-Director and as an experienced
 author of ICS, Sim’s mentorship of the ICS leads proved crucial to the development and
 consolidation of ICS endeavours, as did the support, advice and individualised review offered by
 LJMU’s Research Impact Officer (Day). More generally attendance of a range of training and
 discussion forums facilitated by Research Innovation Services at LJMU, for example an ICS Away
 Day at the Bluecoat in November 2018, were critical in maintaining momentum and engagement
 with impact activities. Outwith the ICSs, social impact is embedded within the broader research
 endeavours of CCSE members where efforts to engage with progressive criminal justice and
 social policy reform has included a focus on gender (Atkinson, Barr, Standing); children’s online
 risk and harm (Greenhow, Tickle): older populations (Barrett, Ogden); housing (Allen);
 education (Kay-Flowers); drugs (Beckett-Wilson, Wakeman); counterterrorism (Sabir) and
 organised crime (Chistyakova).

 Within LCAPS, a social impact agenda has been pursued via the establishment of an advisory
 group whose membership includes the Chief Constable of Merseyside, the Police and Crime
 Commissioner for Merseyside; the Chief Executive Officer, College of Policing; The Director of
 Serious and Organised Crime Office for Security and Counter Terrorism; the Chief Fire Officer for

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Merseyside Fire and Rescue Service; the Chief Constable of North Wales Police and Dr Victor
 Olisa QPM (the previous Head of Diversity at the Metropolitan Police Service) which meets bi-
 annually. Alongside regular research meetings, chaired by James, these arrangements have
 enabled staff to respond quickly to demands of the sector as evidenced by successful bids for
 work from the National Police Chiefs Council (NPCC) to review direct detective entry routes (2019)
 and review the effectiveness of the Proceeds of Crime Centre (2020). Related to these activities,
 LCAPS sponsors an NPCC working group; the Intelligence Practice Research Consortium (IPRC)
 whose Twitter feed has 1,000 professional followers. Finally, with Merseyside Police, LCAPs now
 delivers the professional policing degree apprenticeship and degree holder entry programme to
 more than 600 students and has also been involved in training for policing organisations. For,
 example, staff from LCAPS have provided disclosure training to the Royal Military Police and
 provided investigative interview training to the International Cricket Council’s anti-corruption unit.

  V.    Continue to build a vibrant and distinctive post-graduate culture that coheres with
        the CCSE’s strategic aims
 The UOA has placed particular emphasis on working in partnership with postgraduate students.
 Since November 2016, the CCSE has hosted post-graduate conferences, organised by our GTAs
 and involving postgraduate students from across the Faculty and PG students from other
 institutions. The first ‘Voices of Resistance’ in November 2016 involved 11 PG student paper
 presentations and 30 internal and external delegates. The second ‘Whose Law, What Order in an
 Age of Austerity’ in November 2017 involved presentations from 8 PG students and 20 internal
 and external delegates. The proceedings of the first conference ‘Voices of Resistance’, edited by
 three of our GTAs (Atkinson, Huber and Tucker), supported by the co-directors Sim and Monk,
 was published by the CCSE in 2017.

 This involvement has fostered ongoing relationships with PG networks nationally, with Hodgson
 and Huber contributing to the British Society of Criminology annual conferences (2015-2019),
 Greenwood presenting at the Howard League for Penal Reform Redesigning Justice Conference
 (2018) and Atkinson contributing to a Feminist Methods Conference and an activist event
 supporting Rape Crisis (2018). Involvement in the PG culture has also given an international profile
 to the PG community within the CCSE with Atkinson, Hodgson and Tucker presenting at the
 European Group for the Study of Deviance and Social Control (2017-2019) and Atkinson being
 appointed as Associate Production Editor for ‘Justice, Power and Resistance’, the Journal of the
 European Group for the Study of Deviance and Social Control. PG students have also been
 encouraged and supported to contribute posts to the CCSE Blog (Hodgson, Jan 2019, Fletcher,
 June 2020). These developments have been key to cultivating a vibrant postgraduate
 environment.

 How the unit has sought to enable and/or facilitate the achievement of impact
 The formal research culture within the CCSE and LCAPS, as well as the informal mentoring
 system in place, have generated not only a strong commitment to developing the extant
 knowledge and debates within the discipline, but also to making interventions and contributing to
 policy debates and responses across a broad range of criminal justice, policing and social policy
 issues. This ranges from the research seminars Masterclasses and CPD events hosted by the
 CSSE and LCAPS to the delivery of research reports and evaluations on issues including:
 ‘Befriending and Re-ablement’ for Age Concern; ‘Reducing offending’ for Knowsley Metropolitan
 Council; the ‘recruitment and training of investigators’ for the National Police Chiefs Council and
 ‘trialling body-worn video camera’ for the City of London Police.


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Each of the case studies submitted for this UOA arise from this research culture and provide
 exemplars of the approach envisaged and promoted in securing social impact:
 Sim’s ICS builds on his career long interest, research and activism on prison policy and his
 ongoing 15 year involvement with INQUEST. After being a member of the charity's Advisory
 Group, Sim took up his role as a Trustee in 2008. In 2017, along with Professor Steve Tombs of
 the Open University and Rebecca Roberts the Head of Policy at INQUEST, he helped to form the
 INQUEST Academics and Researchers Group designed to support INQUEST’s work. His role as
 a Trustee involves him contributing to a range of INQUEST’s activities: commenting on, and
 helping to draft and edit submissions to parliamentary inquiries and research reports; commenting
 on policy documents and briefing papers; and supporting INQUEST staff in preparing letters to the
 press and media commentary. He received Quality- related Research (QR) funding from the
 Faculty of Arts and Professional Studies in the academic year 2016-17 to support his work around
 deaths in custody.

 In keeping with CCSE’s approach to social impact, the ICS constructed by Jackson and Monk
 sought to address the CCSE objective of undertaking rigorous critical scholarship. Building from
 underpinning research centred on the policing of protest at Barton Moss, Jackson and Monk,
 alongside Dr Joanna Gilmore (York Law School, University of York), established a productive
 working relationship with the Northern Police Monitoring Project and the Network for Police
 Monitoring. While the researchers and Monitoring networks work independently, their shared
 concern to challenge dominant public and policy discourse has served to facilitate and promote
 the reach of their dissemination and public engagement activity. For example, this relationship
 influenced the publication and public launch events for the ‘Keep Moving: Report on the Policing
 of the Barton Moss Protection Camp’ in Manchester, Liverpool and the House of Lords. This work
 was supported by HSS funds to support staff development and successful APS Faculty QR
 funding bids from 2015-2019 amounting to £6,241.

 The third case study for this UOA demonstrates a commitment to develop the CCSE’s regional
 and national presence by evaluating the Royal British Legion’s (TRBL) policy and practice on the
 provision of ‘Short Term Breaks’ to individuals and families facing financial difficulty, social
 isolation, illness and bereavement. This study arose from an approach to LJMU from the TRBL in
 2017. TRBL were looking for academic partners to inform their delivery of the ‘Short Term Breaks’.
 Barrett, Marshall and Murray worked dynamically in collaboration with TRBL via action research
 to comment upon the effectiveness of the delivery and impact of the ‘Short Breaks Service’. This
 triggered a series of action learning meetings in London, Liverpool and Southport, in 2018-2019,
 involving the research leads and key RBL personnel (Baines, Executive Director Of Operations;
 Barnett, Assistant Director of Operations - Care Services, Breaks & Recovery; Flood, Head of
 Breaks and Recovery; Bennett, Poppy Breaks Coordinator; and Truss, TRBL Project Manager).
 These action-learning meetings highlighted both positives and concerns arising from the provision
 of ‘short breaks’. Following the second meeting in March 2018, which reported on child
 safeguarding concerns during Adventure Breaks, the senior TRBL personnel took the decision to
 immediately suspend children’s breaks pending a systematic review and in due course led to the
 amendment of TRBL’s safeguarding protocol. Again this work was supported by staff development
 funding and, perhaps more importantly, the research funding provided by TRBL allowed sessional
 teaching support to support Barrett, Murray and Marshall take forward this research and related
 activities.




                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The submitting unit’s approach to supporting interdisciplinary research
 An interdisciplinary approach to research underpins the research culture of the CCSE. The
 conviction to discuss and debate academic questions and to address a range of social issues and
 offer policy solutions to these issues underpins the CCSE’s efforts to bring together academics,
 practitioners and activists from inside and outside LJMU. In LCAPS, interdisciplinary collaboration
 with a range of policing and security stakeholders is promoted and nurtured via the research
 groups, events, established partnerships with external organisations, mentoring arrangements
 and an openness to pursuing opportunities on offer.

 Indeed, the UOA’s commitment to promoting rigorous and interdisciplinary research has
 culminated in productive and creative research partnerships including joint research projects of
 LJMU staff from Criminology; Criminal Justice and Sociology and research partnerships with a
 range of external organisations such as INQUEST, the Howard League for Penal Reform; the
 Royal British Legion; N8 Policing Research Partnership; the National Police Chief’s Council; the
 Foundation for Art and Creative Technology (FACT) Liverpool; TENDER; Merseyside Police; and
 the Police and Crime Commissioner for Merseyside.

 This collaboration is demonstrated, via a selected example which demonstrates the UOA’s, and
 LJMU’s, approach to supporting interdisciplinary research:
 The development of Probationary: the Game of Life on Licence was taken forward on the basis of
 a partnership between LJMU academics (Hayes, Jackson and Wakeman, SJS/CCSE, and
 Murray, Law/CCSE); the FACT Learning Programme and the Howard League for Penal Reform.
 This interdisciplinary relationship places criminological scholarship at the centre of a unique
 dialogue between socially engaged art and penal reform. Originally, this project emerged from an
 ongoing research relationship between FACT and Murray in respect of her work with veterans,
 with CCSE membership and research networks providing the context and means for the
 involvement of the other research leads. In April 2017, APS Faculty QR funds of £2,335 (Hayes,
 Jackson, Murray, Wakeman) provided the initial impetus to get this project underway and further
 funding followed in November 2017 via a LJMU Knowledge Exchange and Innovation Voucher
 for £9,790 (Hayes, Jackson and Murray). This funding supported and consolidated by funds from
 the FACT Learning Programme, LJMU staff development funding, and Howard League support
 in-kind facilitated an array of artivist, research and related dissemination activities. This variously
 included the appointment of the artist Hwa Young Jung; the series of workshops where the artist
 worked in partnership with men on license to explore the lived experience of being on probation;
 the production of the board game ‘Probationary’ and a series of demonstration and dissemination
 activities at FACT, LJMU, CCSE, and Howard League events. This project forms part of an impact
 case study submitted to UOA 18 Law.

 Progress towards an open research environment
 In accordance with the REF open access policy requirements, since April 2016 all final/accepted
 manuscript (for journal articles and some proceedings) must be submitted to the institutional
 repository to make this work publicly available via LJMU Research Online. For the census period,
 76 articles have been deposited in the institutional repository of which 64 are accessible and 5
 embargoed. A further 7 articles are open access at the relevant publisher site. Commitment to
 open access is also reflected in staff going above open access policy in depositing actions learning
 set reports (6); blog posts (2); book chapters (5); bulletin contribution (2); conference papers (2)
 and reports (9). All PhD and MPhil students are required to deposit their thesis with two currently
 accessible via the repository. The CCSE also facilitates access to members’ outputs via dedicated
 publication links on its website alongside research reports, CCSE publications and recordings of

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CCSE seminars. Going forward the UOA’s commitment to progressing an open access books
 agenda is reflected in Library Services support for an open access monograph by McGowan
 (forthcoming) ‘Victims of Political Violence and Terrorism: Making Up Resilient Survivor
 Communities’.

 Likewise, the UOA conforms to the LJMU Code of Practice for Research and as such is committed
 to maintaining high ethical standards in studies undertaken by its staff and students. It is a
 fundamental requirement of LJMU that all studies undertaken by University staff or students using
 human subjects as participants (including audits and service evaluations) receive approval from
 an appropriate LJMU Research Ethics Committee (REC) or a NHS REC before any recruitment
 commences. Within the relatively recently constituted School of Justice Studies, a local REC is
 operational and at the moment overseeing the research ethics process for Masters programmes
 with staff and PhD students applying to LJMU REC.

 Research objectives over the next 5 years
 The establishment of the School of Justice Studies comprises the formal structure for the
 development of this UOA over coming years. Herein a newly constituted Research Co-ordinator’s
 committee (Barrett, Burke, James, Jamieson, Millings) will work with the Co-Directors of the
 CCSE (Monk and Sim) and the Director of LCAPs (Silverstone) to implement a strategic and
 sustainable approach to nurturing and supporting research and impacts. While recognising the
 likely differences, alongside synergies, in the research priorities and activities across the cognate
 areas, and research centres, as a collective the School will aim to:

    1. Forge an overarching research culture for the School of Justice Studies, while maintaining
       the research strengths and identities of each of its cognate areas of Criminal Justice,
       Criminology and Policing.
    2. Facilitate rigorous, critical, inter-disciplinary research and outputs, which for the CCSE will
       continue to focus on issues of crime, criminalisation, and the exercise of state power and
       for LCAPS will prioritise exerting a transformative impact on policing.
    3. To engage with activist, criminal justice, and policing communities to further develop and
       consolidate the CCSE’s and LCAPS’ local, regional and international profile.
    4. Provide an inclusive forum to support and develop early career researchers and to
       consolidate and develop the research expertise of all members of each research centre.
    5. Further develop and consolidate impact by promoting impact as a key focus of research
       activity and by diversifying the number and range of potential ICSs.
    6. Continue to build a vibrant and distinctive post-graduate research culture for our taught
       postgraduate, practitioner students, and doctoral students alike.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 The School of Justice Studies comprises a School Director (Silverstone); three Subject Leaders
 (Cox, Jamieson, McManus); four professors (Burke, Finnegan, Murphy, Sim); three Readers
 (Barrett, James, Millings); 42 Lecturers/Senior Lecturers (Barr, Bates, Beckett-Wilson,
 Boulton, Carr, Chistyakova, Corteen, Cross, Cummins, Gosling, Greenhow, Hayes, Hesketh,
 Hollinshead, Hughes, Jackson, Karecha, Kelly, Ludvigsen, Mackay, Marne, Marshall, McGowan,
 Metcalf, Monk, Murray, Panter, Parry, Peatfield, Ragonese, Sabir, Shaw, Stanier, Steele,
 Taylor, Tickle, Towers, Wakeman, Walker, Ward, Whitfield, Williams; and twelve Practitioner


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fellows (Cummings, Dacre, Dean, Hughes, Kealy, Mckay, Parry, Guppy, Barrett, Walker, Ward,
 and Watkinson- Miley). This UOA is also derived from staff in HSS (Allen, Ogden and Standing)
 and the SoE (Kay-Flowers). A mixed demographic of senior, mid-career and early-career
 academics provides a diverse and vibrant research environment and ample opportunities for
 succession planning, which will include the integration of staff from all cognate areas to this UOA
 in the next census period. In the current census period, 28 staff are submitted to REF, 2 of whom
 are ECRs.

 Staffing policy within this UOA during the census period has been characterised by investment,
 expansion and recruitment. Across the UOA this has witnessed the appointment of a School
 Director, two Subject Leaders, a Reader and ten Senior Lecturers and ten Practitioner fellows. A
 key priority for new lectureships was either an existing research record or the potential to make a
 significant contribution to research. The majority (90%) of staff submitted within this UOA are on
 permanent, full-time contracts.

 Within the UOA teaching and research are seen as mutually reinforcing and supporting activities
 and a key objective is the active engagement of staff in research and impacts activity. This is
 supported and encouraged via the formal LJMU probation and personal development planning
 process and a formal workload allocation model which supports research through specific time
 allowance for research, supervision of PGR studentships, journal editorship and for members of
 staff undertaking a research degree. Staff who work on a part-time basis are allocated an
 equivalent time allowance (pro-rata hours) to support their research endeavours and support for
 ECRs is provided for in the University’s workload allocation model through reduced
 teaching/administration hours to enable them to undertake research.

 A system of formal mentoring operates for all Early Career staff, and some mid-career, in the UOA
 where this is identified/requested via Personal Development and Performance Review. A strong
 and dynamic approach to mentoring also operates informally whereby senior colleagues read and
 comment upon drafts of academic papers, book proposals and grant submissions for those
 beginning their research careers, particularly those keen to turn their PhDs into manuscripts. As
 a result, three colleagues (Barr, Hodgson and Speed) have been awarded book contracts (all with
 Palgrave MacMillan), while another (Sabir with Pluto Press) has been given substantial feedback
 on the first draft of his forthcoming manuscript. This same procedure has been followed in relation
 to academic articles which has resulted in publications in a range of academic journals (Boulton,
 Hesketh, Metcalf, Peatfield, Stanier). At the same time, senior colleagues ensure that links to
 different academic and activist websites are frequently distributed to the colleagues. Taken
 together these approaches serve to promote a vibrant, supportive and collegiate research culture
 which moving forward it is anticipated will underpin the vitality and sustainability of the UOA’s
 impacts strategy.

 More generally the UOA seeks to implement an inclusive research culture by involving ECRs and
 post-doctoral students in funding bids (Tickle with Greenhow and Metcalf on QR bids totalling
 £1447 and £1680 respectively) and research projects (Grindrod with Taylor et al. on Cannabis
 Cultivation Research; Hodgson and Speed with Jamieson on a Domestic Abuse Project
 Evaluation; Atkinson with Standing on universities’ responses to gender based violence) with
 more experienced colleagues and in the organisation of the CCSE Critical Research Seminar
 Series and other CCSE events (Atkinson, Huber and Tucker with Monk and Sim). In turn, through
 their developing publications records, early career researchers (ECR) and postdoctoral colleagues
 have made important contributions to the various research activities of the UOA. Likewise support


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mechanisms are in place for staff whose research career has been interrupted for any reason, via
 mentoring as appropriate, and a period of reduced workload allocation.

 Investing in the development of researchers is a strategic priority for LJMU. Specialist research
 training is available to all members of the UOA via LJMU’s ACTivator research development
 programme which was awarded the ‘Developing Excellence Practice Award 2019’ by the Staff
 Development Forum's (SDF) annual national conference. Staff associated with this UOA have
 actively engaged in this programme (22 workshop attendances between 2018-19), which consists
 of 11 half-day workshops, facilitated by specialists within Research and Innovation Services,
 focusing on key features of the researcher journey, including ‘Surveying Your Funding
 Landscape’; ‘Funding Applications: Getting a Yes’ and ‘The Building Blocks of Impact’.

 With regard to equality of opportunity, LJMU is a signatory to the 2019 Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers and its European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research
 Award was successfully reviewed in September 2018. LJMU has a robust action plan to continue
 to support researcher development that is delivered by the Concordant Task Group via a series
 of action plans (2012, 2014, 2016 and 2018) which are premised on implementing the Concordat
 principles.

 LJMU’s promotion criteria for Professorships and Readerships recognises and rewards research,
 social impact and the generation of external research income and it is on these criteria that two
 members of the UOA were successfully conferred to a Readership during the census period
 (Barrett and Millings). Faculty QR funding to the sum of £37,391 has been provided to support
 members of the UOA in their research endeavours. Moreover, Faculty funding for sessional
 teaching hours in 2019/20 provided our ICS leads (Barrett, Jackson, Monk and Sim) with space
 and time to engage in impact activity.

 Research students
 Developing a vibrant and distinctive postgraduate culture has been a prime and enduring ambition
 for this UOA. During the census period, the UOA has had 17 PhD completions and one MPhil
 awarded. This is an immense improvement on our position in respect of REF 2014, when the UOA
 had 1.5 PhD completions.
 Central to our efforts to consolidate and expand the postgraduate activity and supervisory
 expertise of members has been the provision of a suite of Masters programmes which have
 witnessed 305 students graduating in the period from 2016 to 2020. A specific aim of this provision
 is to build postgraduate research capacity, with successful completion serving as a progression
 route to PhD study. So far, 12 of our Masters students have progressed to further postgraduate
 study within the School of Justice Studies. In addition, LCAPS launched a Professional Doctorate
 in Policing, Criminal Justice, and Security in 2017 attracting 13 PG students from countries
 including Pakistan, Australia, Dubai, Switzerland and the Lebanon. Further evidence of LCAPS’
 commitment to the professional development of staff and to building a research engaged
 academic community is reflected in the fact that four of the students enrolled on this Professional
 Doctorate are LJMU staff.

 PhD recruitment for the CCSE has benefited from strategic investment via the funding of: three
 fees bursary scholarships, by the School of Humanities and Social Science (where the CCSE was
 based to August 2019), four PhD scholarships funded by the Faculty of Arts and Professional
 Studies and one LJMU PhD research only scholarship. Each of these scholarships were
 advertised and appointed on the basis of a competitive recruitment process in accordance with

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 LJMU equal opportunities policies. Within LCAPS two staff have started their PhD’s funded by
 Faculty of Arts and Professional Studies and there are five PhD students funded by the Doctoral
 Training Alliance (DTA) Social Policy. More generally, students apply for PhD Studentships via
 LJMU admissions and each application is scrutinised for quality, potential and in relation to the
 availability of supervisory expertise.

 A total of 20 staff from the UOA have been involved in the supervision of PhD students. This
 activity has been of key importance to developing and consolidating supervisory experience and
 capacity. In the CCSE one staff member (Sim) has been involved in the successful supervision of
 seven students to completion, another has been involved in the successful supervision of five
 students to completion (Jamieson), with a further eight staff members involved in these successful
 supervisory arrangements (Barr, Barrett, Hayes, Jackson, Metcalf, Monk, Tickle and
 Wakeman). All PGR supervisors are required to undertake the University’s Research Supervisors
 workshop as a pre-requisite of being appointed as part of supervisory arrangements. The
 University’s Research Degree Regulations require that all registered postgraduate research
 students, and their Directors of Study, report annually on progress in line with the University’s
 Code of Good Practice for Annual Monitoring. Annual Monitoring reports are collated at Faculty
 level and considered by the University Research Degrees Committee. James is the PG
 Coordinator for SJS and represents the School at Faculty level.

 The Doctoral Academy offers a comprehensive programme of workshops to develop research
 students’ research and transferable skills. The Researcher Development Programme is designed
 to support students throughout the research journey, from getting started with research, enhancing
 their personal effectiveness, through to engaging others and successfully communicating their
 work. The programme content is mapped to the national Vitae Researcher Development
 Framework (RDF), which sets out the characteristics of excellent researchers. Postgraduate
 research student induction is compulsory and provided by the University’s Doctoral Academy
 (induction sessions are run on six occasions throughout the academic year). The RDP runs all
 year round, and workshops are repeated for each cohort of new starters. The programme is open
 to researchers from all faculties and students are encouraged to identify the workshops that are
 most relevant by undertaking a training needs analysis early on in their research journey. In
 addition to workshops, The Doctoral Academy runs a more intensive researcher development
 Summer School in July, and final stage researchers can take part in residential ‘Thesis Boot
 Camps’ to support the writing of the final thesis. As well as the RDP, there are plenty of
 opportunities throughout the year for research students to put skills into practice. The Doctoral
 Academy holds an annual conference, coordinates research communications competitions, and
 offers    funds    to   help     PG    students    to    present    at    external    conferences.
 (https://www.ljmu.ac.uk/thedoctoral-academy/researcher-development).

 One of our PGRs noted that the RDP programme was ‘well organised, informative and
 constructive’. Another noted that attendance of the Doctoral Academy Thesis Boot Camp in
 February 2019 helped him to develop an effective writing routine observing ”if it were not for this
 opportunity at LJMU, I would not have been able to submit my PhD thesis during my write-up
 year”. Finally, in respect of the ‘Viva Survival’ training accessed in December 2019 a PGR student
 noted “This was such a vital opportunity to learn about the purpose of a Viva, and to discuss
 expectations. During this training, I received very useful guidance on preparing for the Viva. This
 included being taught the key characteristics of an effective Viva presentation, advice on
 identifying techniques for planning for the Viva, and how to reflect upon ways of dealing with
 presentation nerves and fears. I passed my Viva with no corrections”.


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The participation of PGR students within other conferences and events is also encouraged and
 funded. Many PGRs present at the Annual Faculty Research days (Atkinson, Hodgson,
 Greenwood, Speed, Tucker), with Hodgson winning the prize for best paper on her work on girls
 and restorative justice in 2016. PGRs are also funded via the Faculty or their relevant School to
 attend national (British Society of Criminology, Howard League) and international (European
 Group for the Study of Deviance and Social Control) conferences (see section 1 above).

 Equality and Diversity
 LJMU is committed to promoting equal opportunities for all those involved within the University
 community. This commitment is to ensure that people’s individual qualities are recognised and
 celebrated; and that people are treated with dignity and respect.

 Since 2014, individual staff circumstances have been taken into consideration as part of the
 promotion criteria for Reader and Professorial conferment. In the census period, two members of
 the UOA successfully secured internal promotion to a Readership (Barrett, Millings). Staff are
 encouraged to declare protected characteristics so that targeted initiatives can be developed as
 appropriate. There is dedicated support available for female members of staff with ambitions to
 achieve internal promotion to Reader or Professor via the Women’s academic network which
 comprises the Women Professors Network, the Women Readers Network and the Women ECR
 Network with female academics encouraged (and funded) to participate in the Aurora Programme.
 LJMU successfully renewed the Athena Swan Bronze Award in 2018. The School of Justice
 Studies is in the early stages of applying for an Athena Swan Award in its own right. Moving
 forward the Equality Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Team, at LJMU, are producing an Inspirational
 Case Studies – Staff Network Booklet in which staff share their personal and professional
 journeys, in order to encourage others to progress in their careers and to feel more comfortable
 within their surroundings.

 The University provides support for working from home and flexible working arrangements, where
 practicable. During the census period three female members of staff successfully applied for
 flexible working arrangements to facilitate their childcare arrangements (Barr, Beckett-Wilson
 and Monk). The institutional provision and support for career pathways in the form of training,
 conference attendance and access to faculty research funding is the same for part time and fixed
 term staff as it is for full time permanent staff.

 All staff in the School of Justice Studies the School of Humanities and Social Science and the
 School of Education were considered for eligibility for inclusion in the REF 2021 submission to
 UOA20, or other UOAs where appropriate, in accordance with LJMU’s ‘Code of Practice’, Equality
 and Diversity Policy’ and its commitment to the ‘Concordat for the Development of Researchers’.
 The assessment of ‘significant responsibility for independent research’ (SRIR) has been taken
 forward on an annual basis since 2017/18 at Faculty level via a sub-panel of the APS FRSKTC
 chaired by the Associate Dean for Research (Hyatt) and involving the APS Dean of Faulty (Yates)
 and APS School Directors (Bolton, McLean, Miles, Silverstone, Wilkinson). This process also
 identifies staff with emergent research needs (for example, ECRs or new staff from a professional
 background) who will then liaise with their relevant line managers (Chalcraft, Cox, Jamieson and
 McManus) to access support to help them become independent researchers. Staff members who
 have individual staff circumstances that have significantly compromised their ability to work
 productively over the REF assessment period have been encouraged to voluntarily declare these
 circumstances for confidential consideration by the University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion



                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Manager, the HR Manager (Business Services) and the Head of Research Excellence and
 Research Strategy.

 A commitment to promoting quality and diversity is also reflected in the fact that staff from LCAPS
 sit on the Sexual Violence, Hate Crime & Harassment Working Group, which is working with the
 Office of Students to assist both staff and students to prevent Sexual Violence, Hate Crime &
 Harassment Working Group across all UK Universities. Silverstone was PI for ‘Safer Student
 Communities’, HEFCE (£48K), supported by Standing and Karecha. This project was in response
 to the recognition that universities need to do more to address the issues of hate crime,
 harassment and sexual violence among student and staff communities. HEFCE made three
 specific strategic recommendations for Universities: (i) to develop a clear, accessible and
 representative disclosure response; (ii) to implement a centralised reporting system; and (iii) to
 build and maintain partnerships with local specialist services to ensure consistent referral
 pathways.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding and strategies for generating research income
 The UOA is creative and responsive to the generation of research income and has been
 successful in securing external research funding to the sum of £766,385 during the census period,
 which is more than double that for our REF2014 submission (£366,183). This comprises £532k
 from UK central government/local authorities, health and hospital authorities; £179,385 from UK
 Research Councils; £48k from UK based charities; £3k from EU-based charities; £1k from UK
 Industry/Commerce/Public Corporations and £3k from UK other sources.

 The generation of research income is premised on the collaborative writing and research
 partnerships which have arisen and been supported by the research clusters fostered by
 membership of the CCSE and LCAPS respectively. The Director of LCAPS (Silverstone) and the
 Co-Directors of the CCSE (Monk and Sim) seek to provide strategic leadership to fully exploit the
 synergies between different members supported by senior colleagues in SJS (Barrett, Burke,
 James, Jamieson and Millings), HSS (Chalcraft, Millward) and SoE (Putwain). The approach
 here is to encourage and support colleagues in their research activities with senior colleagues
 taking the role of ‘critical friends’ and mentors in the discussion, development and submission of
 bids (as discussed in Section 1 above).

 In addition, members of the UOA have access to the services of the Faculty Funding Co-ordinator
 (Thomas) who identifies and disseminates appropriate funding streams and supports and advises
 staff in the preparation and submission of bids. For example, providing information, guidance and
 support in developing funding applications (Murray and Jackson, ESRC; Jackson, Monk &
 Shaw, British Academy); inputting data into LJMU’s ‘Grants and Projects’ System (Chistyakova)
 and offering advice on which organisations might be most appropriate for staff expertise
 (Shaw).This work is supported at an institutional level by the work of LJMU’s Research and
 Innovation Services and specifically its provision of the ACTivator research development
 programme and the management of range of research information and performance resources,
 including Symplectic and Impact Tracker.

 A significant grant for the CCSE was the ‘EU Reducing Reoffending Project’. Funded under the
 Programme for the Prevention of and Fight against Crime General Call in 2012 with the
 underpinning research undertaken from 2015 to 2018. As a key partner, LJMU academics

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Barrett, Beckett-Wilson, Burke and Millings) were awarded €67,450, from an overall award
 of €421.080, to explore the capacity of UK, Dutch and Italian based partners to share learning in
 addressing the challenges presented by groups of people frequently serving short-term prison
 sentences. Involvement in this transnational research in partnership with Knowsley MBC, The
 Hague and the ERI contributed to Knowsley's development and delivery of the innovative Life
 Change Programme (LCP). The end of project conference attended by over 200 delegates from
 across Europe, launched the final project report ‘Working Together to Reduce Offending’ and the
 Life    Change    Programme toolkit. MALs          Merseyside    continues    to   deliver   the
 ‘Life Change Programme’ in Knowsley and Merseyside (https://malsmerseyside.co.uk/).

 In 2015, LCAPS secured funding from the Police Knowledge Fund (£545k-PI Yates) to develop
 collaborative teaching and research activity with Merseyside Police and the Office of the Police
 and Crime Commissioner for Merseyside. The project was operational between 2015 and 2017
 under the title ‘Embedding Evidence Based Practice in Public Protection and Crime Prevention: A
 multi-disciplinary partnership’. LJMU, Merseyside Police and the Office of the Police and Crime
 Commissioner for Merseyside worked in partnership to develop Merseyside Police’s capacity to
 engage with research evidence in helping to positively influence the decision-making practices
 and the organisational working culture of the service. A multi-disciplinary project team consisting
 of three LJMU-based Research Fellows and three Advanced Practitioners (Police Officers
 seconded part-time from Merseyside Police) developed and delivered a bespoke package of
 accredited research training and supervision to a total of 71 police officers and staff. On completion
 of their research, students presented practice-facing research learning on child exploitation,
 effective crime prevention and hate crime to Senior Officers. To ensure the project’s legacy lives
 on, partners worked collaboratively to establish mechanisms for facilitating, commissioning, and
 evaluating research within the organisation to support the continued development of collaborative
 research with academic partners. The establishment of Merseyside Police’s Evidence-Based
 Steering Group and Evidence-Based Knowledge Hub helped embed the engagement with
 research evidence within Merseyside Police and has served to invigorate research networks and
 opportunities between Merseyside Police partners and academic research communities, at LJMU
 and beyond. As noted in Section 1, Millings was awarded a Merseyside Police Chief Officer's
 Commendation in September 2017 for his work on this project.

 Income generation is obviously a key objective for the UOA and the APS Faculty competitive QR
 funding scheme, overseen by the APS Associate Dean for Research, Scholarship and Knowledge
 Transfer, has proved of prime importance in supporting research and impact activities. As the
 Probationary example, outlined in Section 1 above, testifies relatively small amounts of funding
 can often go a long way to securing research outputs and impacts. A further example is evident in
 work undertaken within the CCSE’s children and youth research cluster. Supported by £1,128 of
 QR funding, awarded in November 2016, Greenhow and Shaw undertook focus groups and
 interviews with practitioners on multi-agency responses to the criminalisation and victimisation of
 looked-after children and hosted a dissemination event to discuss key findings with local
 practitioners and researchers. The outputs from this QR funded activity are two co-authored
 journal articles (one in Criminology & Criminal Justice and one in the British Journal of Social
 Work), a book published by Routledge and conference papers at the Howard League of Penal
 Reform and the European Society of Criminology.

 Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure
 Members of the CCSE and LCAPS enjoy excellent facilities in the form of private or shared offices;
 networked desk-top computers and LJMU laptops which provide access to electronic library

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 resources, databases and internet resources. These resources are also available to postgraduate
 students via the provision of a shared office and social learning areas.

 Researchers have access to three well-equipped libraries located across the city with substantial
 print holding and access to electronic resources and generous opening hours (some areas are
 open 24 hours). Services for researchers include Postgraduate Study Areas, a post-graduate
 shared office, LJMU research “showcase” displays, research seminar series, tailored web pages,
 an institutional repository and access to bespoke, advanced search and information skills
 workshops. Induction events for new research active staff provide an opportunity for new starters,
 including ECRs, to meet with existing research staff and to gain a broad overview of the
 professional services and procedural frameworks the University provides to support research
 activity.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Within the census period, the CCSE and LCAPS have facilitated the bringing together of
 researchers across disciplinary areas, schools and faculties across LJMU and beyond. The
 research interests associated with this submission, span criminology, gender studies, housing,
 urban policy, penology, criminal justice, queer criminology, policing and security studies. Herein,
 the activities of the UOA research centres have been central in supporting longstanding research
 expertise, as illustrated by Sim’s ICS, and in the emergence of new synergies and research areas
 involving staff who otherwise would not have worked together as evidenced in the development
 of the artivism research cluster, in the CSSE, involving Hayes, Jackson, Murray and Wakeman
 (see Section 1 above on ‘Interdisciplinary Research’).

 UOA members are active in both academic and non-academic clusters, networks and
 organisations. Internationally these include the Anti-Security Group (Jackson); the European
 Migration Network (Barrett); the European Group for the Study of Deviance and Social Control
 (Atkinson, Greenhow, Hodgson, Tickle, Sim); the European Society of Criminology (Taylor);
 Erasmus (James); the Femicide Research Network (Towers) and the Global Labour Organisation
 (Ogden). Nationally and locally these include the Addiction Theory Network (Taylor); Cheshire
 Foodbanks (Ogden); the Howard League for Penal Reform (Jamieson, Tickle); INQUEST
 (Sim/Trustee); Interchange (Metcalf/Trustee); National Association of Youth Justice (Jamieson);
 North-East Regional Race, Crime and Justice Research Group (Chistyakova); North-West: Drugs
 (Taylor); N8 Policing Research Partnership (Towers); Rainbows GB (Kay-Flowers/Trustee);
 Sahir House (Metcalf); SOVA (Ragonese); United Against Injustice (Hayes); Voluntary Sectors
 Studies Network (Metcalf); and the Women’s Health Information Services Centre (Standing).

 This commitment to engaging with diverse research users and stakeholders contributes to the
 vibrancy of our research culture and environment and our success to date in this external
 engagement is testimony to the value placed upon our individual, and indeed, collective research
 expertise. Often underpinned by institutional funding (personal development and QR funding), the
 effectiveness and potential of such activity is reflected in Jackson’s involvement in the Anti-
 Security Group which brings together an international and interdisciplinary group of academics,
 from Canada, the United States, South Africa, Turkey, France and the UK to research the politics
 of security. This collaboration has involved the production of an edited collection [Wall, Saberi and
 Jackson 2017] and the organisation of a workshop, with The Transnational Institute in Puglia Italy
 in October 2018. At a more local level, Ogden’s involvement in a collaboration, with York St John



                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University and Leeds Beckett University, culminated in an exhibition of textile objects exploring
 women’s relationships to needlecraft for the York Festival of Ideas, 2019.

 Staff are regularly invited and funded to give conference presentations, many as keynotes,
 including: the
 American Society of Criminology (Millings, Ragonese Taylor); the British Society for Aesthetics
 (Wakeman); British Society for Criminology (Barr, Monk, Wakeman); the Critical Legal
 Conference (Jackson); Eurocrim (Barr); the European Group for the Study of Deviance and
 Social Control (Atkinson, Barr, Barrett, Greenhow, Hodgson, Tickle, Sim); the European Society
 of Criminology (Millings, Taylor); the Finnish National Police Board (James); the Howard League
 for Penal Reform International Conference (Darwin, Hayes, Jackson, Ragonese, Shaw,
 Wakeman); the Interdisciplinary Conference on Childhood and Youth (Kay-Flowers); the Living
 Knowledge Conference (Metcalf); the Merseyside Police Conference (Watkinson-Miley); Leeds
 Beckett University, Public Seminar Series: Cultural Conversations, 2018 (Ogden) and the National
 Social Work with Youth in Conflict with Law, Inter-University Centre (Greenhow).

 Journal editorships held by UOA members include: the British Journal of Criminology (Wakeman),
 Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies (Silverstone), Punishment and Society (Sim), Social
 Justice (Jackson) and with members also being invited to review submissions for Child and Family
 Social Work (Greenhow); Criminology and Criminal Justice (Wakeman); Critical Criminology
 (Wakeman); Demokratizatsiya (Chistyakova); Illness, Crisis and Loss (Ogden); Policing and
 Society (Chistyakova); Theoretical Criminology (Wakeman) Youth Studies (Tickle) and Youth
 Justice (Tickle).

 The above work and activity clearly indicates that UOA members are not only committed to their
 academic disciplines and contributing to extant issues and debates within these, but also that they
 are engaged with networks and stakeholders beyond academia. Through this commitment to
 national and international collaborations, various contributions to a broad disciplinary and research
 base have been made. These include the following areas:

    -   The limitations of political and criminal justice definitions of ‘violence’, including analysing
        gendered violence; the violence of austerity and the normalisation of violence by state
        servants in institutions of incarceration;

    -   Social harm, its forms, dynamics, and mitigation, with key work being conducted on the
        experiences of ‘looked after’ children’; women; BME prisoners; victims of crime; and on the
        ‘War against Terror’

    -   The significance of local, national and international discourse, policy and practice in
        governing a variety of lived experiences, including that of young people;
        offending/desisting women; older people; transgender police officers; drug users; social
        housing tenants; and those with disabilities.

    -   Applied research on policing and criminal justice policy and practice with respect to
        intelligence, ethical use of covert intelligence; police professionalisation; and responses to
        violence against women.




                                                                                                Page 16
