Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Durham University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 28 History

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Department of History is one of seven departments in the Faculty of Arts & Humanities at
 Durham. Comprising 56 research-active staff (54.6 FTE), it has become one of the largest History
 departments in the UK. Since 2014, we have pursued an ambitious staffing strategy to deepen
 and broaden our areas of research concentration, and to generate new opportunities for
 transnational, transhistorical, and comparative research.

 The sustained growth of staff numbers has enabled the Department to build a collective strength
 in each field and the capacity for sustained and substantive dialogue across periods and places.
 Our research extends chronologically from the 3rd to the 21st century, and covers five large
 geographical areas, in each of which we have a critical mass of historians: the British Isles and
 continental Europe, extending from the Irish Sea to Russia; the United States; Africa; East Asia;
 and South Asia. New thematic clusters, underpinned by strategic appointments in defined fields,
 cut across chronological and geographical divisions and stimulate interdisciplinary collaboration
 with research centres and institutes within the Faculty and the University.

 Externally-funded research projects reinforce research structures that ingrain collaborative ways
 of working. Staff belong to, and benefit from participation in, more than 10 department research
 groups, whose focus is chronological and/or geographical (from late antiquity and the early middle
 ages to contemporary African history), or thematic (from transnational history to the history of
 science, technology, and medicine). Staff also engage with, and lead, interdisciplinary research
 centres and institutes, such as the Centre for Visual Arts and Culture (CVAC), the Centre for
 Nineteenth-Century Studies (CNCS), and the Institute of Medieval and Early Modern Studies
 (IMEMS).

 Achievement of strategic aims
 In REF2014 the Department identified three specific aims: (i) to increase collaborative research,
 especially interdisciplinary collaborations, in more of its research areas, in order to encourage
 research that addresses large and ambitious historical problems; (ii) to enhance the value of
 Durham’s outstanding special collections for historical research through a major institutional
 investment in Ushaw College, the former Roman Catholic seminary near Durham; and (iii) to
 increase its external grant income. Evidence of the achievement of these aims includes:
      the emergence of new research collaborations, some as incubators to large externally-
        funded projects. These projects have included a number seed funded by IMEMS and the
        Institute of Advanced Study (IAS), such as the ‘Ordered Universe’ project, led by Gasper.
      the promotion and use of Durham’s unique research collections and assets at Palace
        Green Library, the Cathedral, the Oriental Museum, and Ushaw College. The Department
        drove a cross-disciplinary initiative to establish a Residential Research Library (DRRL) for
        visiting scholars; Taylor is the DRRL’s inaugural director.
      the more than 280% increase of the Department’s external research income, from a more
        varied group of external funding bodies, since REF2014.

 Research and impact strategy from 2014
 We have achieved these aims through University investment in the Department’s staffing, coupled
 with a transformation in our research culture. Whereas in 2014 there were peaks of excellence,
 our subsequent approach has built critical mass and promoted world-leading research in all of the
 Department’s fields of research.

 Our strategy since 2014 has been three-fold:




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to support all staff to produce innovative and intellectually ambitious research.
 The Department formalised and instituted a universal mentoring system (section 2), which we had
 pioneered before 2014, to give guidance to staff on publishing in leading academic presses and
 journals. We formulated a programme of targeted research training workshops (section 2), vital
 for the continuing development of research skills, which introduced staff to new digital methods
 and tools for historical research. We improved the departmental research leave policy to one full
 year in every five years, which exceeds the provision in the University’s revised policy (REF5a/3.3)
 and which we feel best meets the needs and ambitions of our researchers. The Department
 appointed two deputy director of research posts (grants and ethics, and impact) to give individual
 staff tailored assistance for external grant applications and for plans for impact activities. The
 introduction, across the University, of an annual research allowance for all research-active staff
 helped to resource archival trips, conference attendance, and other research expenses
 (REF5a/4.1).

 Indications of the success of these objectives are:
      an increased number of monographs and scholarly editions published by major university
         presses (Cambridge University Press, Oxford University Press, Harvard, Yale) and of
         articles published in some of the world’s leading historical journals (American Historical
         Review, the Annales, Economic History Review, The Historical Journal, Journal of African
         History, Journal of Modern History, Past & Present). In the last REF cycle the Department’s
         37 research-active staff submitted 16 monographs and critical editions; in this one, our 56
         research-active staff have published 33 monographs and critical editions, a 36% increase
         per capita.
      a dramatic increase in the success rates of our researchers, despite ever fiercer
         competition for external funding. In this REF cycle, the Department’s external research
         income was £3.245m, compared to £848k in REF2014.

 to foster an inclusive, creative, and outward-looking research community.
 The Department pursued a staffing strategy that was developed and agreed by all members of
 staff, and periodically reviewed, in the departmental Board of Studies. Our continued investment
 in established areas of research strength (medieval and early modern British and continental
 European history, and modern African history) has been balanced by the expansion of staff
 numbers in all other areas of research activity and the emergence of a specialism in a new
 geographical area (South Asia). Expansion has allowed the addition of specialists in the history of
 southern Africa (Heffernan and Johnson) to its group of historians of eastern Africa, and a
 broadening of expertise in East Asian history to include historians of Japan and Korea (Aricanli,
 Bronson, Courtney, Lee). Further appointments, in thematic areas including economic and social
 history (Brown, Marfany), the history of science and technology (Martin), visual culture (Riggs),
 and transnational history (Keys), have acted as catalysts for new collaboration around shared
 research themes.

 The Department mobilised the University’s research grant incentivisation scheme, launched in
 2017 to reward individual researchers and their departments financially for successful external
 grant applications (REF5a/4.1), to fund its new research groups. With allocated annual budgets,
 these groups have the autonomy to develop their own research agendas and to generate research
 ideas and collaborations through the participation of external speakers, the hosting of reading
 groups, and the organisation of workshops. The departmental seminar was redesigned to bring
 together pairs of internal speakers to discuss shared historical problems, methodological
 questions, and concepts that transcend specialist periods or geographies, while distinguished
 external speakers were invited to talk about their key historiographical interventions, in research
 fields aligned with the Department’s thematic clusters (Weeks on the history of sexuality;
 Auslander on the study of material culture). Individual staff forged new and productive
 collaborations with other disciplines and units within the University (particularly the Department of
 Archaeology and, unusually, departments in the Faculty of Science). We also created a new post
 of director of internationalisation in order to facilitate staff and PGR engagement with collaborators
 and interlocutors outside the UK.


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The success of these measures can be gauged by:
    the organisation and hosting of annual international conferences in Durham (such as the
      interdisciplinary Early Modern Studies conference, founded in 2017 by Taylor and Wood in
      conjunction with IMEMS).
    the number of externally-funded research projects that practise interdisciplinarity (such as
      the AHRC project on ‘Medieval Pigments’, of which Gameson is the P-I).
    the launch in 2018 of an annual postgraduate workshop for History PGRs held jointly with
      the History Department at the University of Münster, part of a deeper international
      collaboration between the two institutions.

 Covid-19 disrupted these activities, but, in almost all cases – whether the departmental research
 groups, the main research seminar, the Early Modern Studies conference, or the Durham-Münster
 PGR workshop – the move to an online format brought benefits, notably the widening of
 international participation.

 to embed a culture of public engagement and impact within the Department.
 We formulated an impact strategy in which public engagement and impact were valued as a
 means to inspire as well as to disseminate research. The Department’s deputy director of research
 (impact) devised the strategy, which was implemented with the professional support of the senior
 impact and engagement manager in the Faculty of Arts & Humanities. This faculty-level post,
 located within the Partnerships and Engagement Team of the University’s Research & Innovation
 Services (RIS), emerged from the University’s investment in Professional Support Services (PSS)
 staff and research systems (REF5a/2.1) and the fundamental restructure of its centralised
 research support (REF5a/4.4). Together, the deputy director of research for impact and senior
 impact and engagement manager identified and developed relationships and partnerships with
 external bodies (see the graphic below); inducted newly-appointed staff in the Department’s
 reciprocal culture of impact and research; and delivered focused advice on applications for internal
 and external sources of funding for impact.

 We also developed the idea of a system of paid PGR impact assistantships to collect and analyse
 the evidence essential to impact whilst providing experience for PGRs in the development of
 impact from research. This model, first adopted by the Faculty, has since become standard
 practice across all departments at Durham. We have appointed 12 impact assistants, funded by
 successful applications to the Faculty to the value of £6k.

 Evidence of the agility and responsiveness of the Department’s impact strategy is the History
 podcast series, curated by the deputy director of research for impact and featuring members of
 the Department. Entitled ‘Narratives of Resilience’, and inspired by the Covid-19 pandemic, it
 examines human responses to crisis and disaster in various historical periods.

 The success of the Department’s strategy can be judged by the graphic below, which shows the
 beneficiaries of staff’s public engagement and impact activities since 2014. They are grouped in
 four broad areas and they spread geographically from the city and the region to national and
 international partners, as does the Department’s research:




                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                             Figure 1: Impact & Engagement activities
 The Department’s five Impact Case Studies reflect its continuing and well-established research
 strengths in medieval history and African history, as well as the comprehensive nature of its
 induction processes for staff appointed to new posts in the period of staff expansion since 2014.
 Four case studies come from staff who were in post before REF2014, while one is from a new
 appointment in the History Department.

 The case studies have emerged, and
 have been funded, in a variety of ways:
 Elections,        Ordered       Universe,
 Petitions, and South Sudan received
 support from UKRI-funded research
 projects and, with the exception of
 Ordered Universe, funding from ESRC
 impact accelerator accounts, which paid
 for policy-oriented impact in the UK,
 Kenya, and South Sudan. The Citizens
 and Rebels case study and early stages
 of Petitions developed from staff                      Figure 2: Impact Development
 research, engagement, and outreach
 activity. All the case studies received competitive seedcorn awards from University and Faculty
 impact funds (which totalled £70k).

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Department’s expansion, coupled with shifts in research culture in which impact plays a larger
 role, creates further opportunities for future impact development. We have already put in place
 measures, such as the appointment of a team of departmental impact and deputy impact officers,
 to maintain continuity of research support into the next REF period. We expect a body of impact
 to emerge in areas that match the Department’s expansion since 2014.

 Indicative case studies for the
 future, with the participation of
 external partners underway,
 include: Disaster Management in
 China     (Courtney);    ‘Jewish’
 Country Houses in the UK and
 France (Stammers); the Legacy
 of Nazi Schooling in Germany
 (Roche); the South African
 Parliament (Johnson) and the
 ANC        Youth      Movement
 (Heffernan);      Legacies     of                                                           Figure 3
 Confederate Memorials in the US
 (Waite).


 Future strategic aims and plans
 Having grown substantially since 2014, our principal aim over the next REF cycle is to make a
 greater contribution to the discipline at national and international levels. We will:
     extend our use of the University’s libraries, archives, and museums (particularly the
        Oriental Museum), through a new post of History Library, Archives, and Collections Liaison
        (Aricanli), to show the national and international significance of its distinctive collections to
        a more diverse public audience.
     develop new thematic fields of research (in particular, histories of race and ethnicity), which
        address questions of contemporary as well as historical significance, through continued
        expansion of staff numbers (beginning with a new post in ‘Black British History’, to be
        appointed in 2021).
     increase significantly the number and diversity of the Department’s research students,
        through the interdisciplinary appeal of the new MA in Medieval and Early Modern Studies
        (designed by Small) and through a carefully directed internationalisation strategy.
     pursue an internationalisation strategy that funds dedicated PhD scholarships in distinct
        areas of history (such as East Asian and South Asian history), and that, in the context of
        continuing Covid-19 uncertainties, enables distance-learning for international PGRs and
        offers the possibility of international supervision for Durham-based PGRs.
     build on the example of the Durham-Huntington Library partnership (section 4) to forge
        new international partnerships with research institutions in North America.
     support staff (with workload relief) to take on national leadership roles in order to contribute
        to future developments in the discipline.

 Open research environment
 All staff submit publications to Durham’s open access depository (DRO) and share the University’s
 aim to make the results of research freely and publicly available, so far as possible (REF5a/2.4).
 Durham’s requirements exceed those of REF by including chapters in edited volumes, as well as
 journal articles and conference proceedings. Outside Durham, several staff have played key roles
 in open access debates at the national level. Fox, as director of communications at the Royal
 Historical Society (RHS), served as the national Arts and Humanities/Social Sciences
 representative on the UUK national panel on Open Access implementation, which produced the
 UUK OA report on repositories. Fox and Taylor, who was also on the RHS council, were involved
 in the discussions that led to a new Open Access monograph series in a collaboration between
 the RHS and the Institute of Historical Research (IHR).

                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research ethics
 Following the transformation of the University’s support for ethics, integrity, and innovation, in
 which responsibility for ethical review of research proposals is devolved to individual departments
 (REF5a/2.3), it is the role of the Department’s deputy director of research for grants also to
 promote a culture of research integrity within the Department. The deputy director has
 strengthened staff understanding and compliance with the University’s ethics policy through the
 provision of one-to-one guidance for researchers, the drafting of a new departmental policy, and
 the introduction of an online ethics approval form, so that research design follows best practice
 and meets our legal and ethical obligations. A former deputy director for grants continues to serve
 as chair of the Faculty’s Ethics committee, where he can inform wider university policy as it relates
 specifically to the Arts & Humanities.

 Section 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 In a period of unprecedented growth for the History Department, our staffing and staff development
 strategies have worked in tandem to achieve our three research objectives (section 1).

 Staffing strategy
 Our staffing strategy since 2014 has had two aims: (i) to broaden and deepen existing research
 strengths; and (ii) to develop new thematic areas that break down enduring chronological,
 geographical, and disciplinary barriers to research. Benefiting from the University’s increased
 financial investment in the Department, we have made 22 permanent appointments since January
 2014. These appointments have strengthened existing chronological and geographical research
 fields, while substantially reinforcing the area of East Asian history and building up thematic
 strengths in economic and social history, the history of visual culture, transnational history,
 environmental history, and the history of science and technology. Among further appointments
 made after the REF census date, three will create a new specialism in South Asian history.

 We chose these fields because they intersected with existing individual research interests, while
 invigorating the Department’s research as a whole. Within a discipline disposed to delimit itself not
 only temporally but also spatially, we believe that this series of posts will give staff the resources
 to make connections across traditionally disconnected geographical regions.

 Recruitment
 In line with the University’s revised procedures and processes for academic recruitment
 (REF5a/3.1), the Department operated a more global and active search for the most talented
 scholars from every background. Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI) is central to our
 recruitment strategy. All job candidates are asked to evidence their commitment to EDI at
 interview. The 18-month process involves a search committee and recruitment activity at
 international conferences such as the American Historical Association. Long-listing and short-
 listing panels read and evaluate publications, and all academic staff participate in the selection of
 new staff. Unconscious bias training is mandatory for all staff, and panels take care that long and
 short lists are diverse, particularly with regard to gender (REF5a/3.1). This strategy has made the
 Department much more international in composition, with almost 30% of staff now non-UK
 nationals, compared to just under 14% in 2013. The gender balance of appointments at all levels
 has improved markedly; all the new chair appointments in the census period are women (Keys,
 Reid, Riggs, Strange). The new appointments also include four staff from BAME backgrounds. At
 associate professor level, there are seven male and six female staff; there are now six female full
 professors, compared to two in 2013.

 In keeping with its inclusive research ethos and with its commitment to the continuing renewal of
 the discipline, the Department advocated successfully to the University for the appointment of
 fixed-term staff on 12-month contracts, which include research as well as teaching (REF5a/3.4).
 In setting best practice for the discipline, and in making research funding available to all
 researchers, irrespective of length of contract, the Department has developed the academic

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 careers of its small number of temporary staff. Four staff on fixed-term appointments secured
 permanent positions after leaving Durham (Liverpool John Moores, Newcastle, the Free University
 of Brussels, and Stirling).

 Staff development
 In the context of rapid expansion, the Department has been particularly conscious of the need to
 support and integrate our growing cohort of Early Career Researchers. ECRs benefit from a
 reduced teaching load (70% in the first year, rising to 90% in the third) and are not expected to
 take on major administrative posts. Induction sessions and one-to-one meetings with the director
 of research are arranged for new staff. Probation agreements set out targets for research during
 the one-year probation period, and the head of department meets regularly with new staff to
 assess progress towards these targets. Research and conference attendance are facilitated by
 the individual research allowance (section 1), which can be supplemented with further
 departmental and University funds.

 With the impetus of 22 permanent appointments during the census period, we have revised our
 staff development strategy. In 2017 the Department created a new role of director of staff
 development and recruitment, who has worked with the director of research and head of
 department to oversee the career development of all staff. Together, they organised a programme
 of staff development sessions and maintained oversight of a new, comprehensive mentoring
 system, which was implemented in 2015 and revised at University level in 2019/20 (REF5a/3.2).
 All staff, from ECRs to professors, from post-doctoral researchers and staff on short-term contracts
 to permanent staff, benefit from departmental mentoring. Mentors read drafts of publications,
 arrange work-in-progress workshops with external scholars, and advise on external grant
 proposals and publication strategies. All staff annually complete personal research plans, which
 are discussed with their mentor and sent to the director of research to assist with plans for external
 grant applications. The Department’s workload model allocates 50% of staff time (including fixed-
 term and part-time staff) for research. Staff have one ring-fenced research day every week. Staff
 on permanent full-time and part-time contracts are eligible to apply for University-funded research
 leave, which (as described in section 1) is more generous than in previous REF cycles. In line with
 University policy (REF5a/3.2), a departmental promotion and progression committee has, since
 2017, reviewed all staff on an annual basis, offering guidance on career development, with a focus
 on research, publication, and grant applications, to enhance EDI.

 Evidence of the success of our staff development strategy includes the internal promotion and
 external appointment of staff, the writing of discipline-significant articles and monographs, and the
 winning of distinguished research fellowships by staff at various career stages. Since 2014 eleven
 staff have been promoted from Assistant to Associate Professor (six male/five female) and six
 from Associate to Professor (four male/two female), while Fox was seconded as director of the
 IHR. The process of reading and commenting on work through the mentoring system gave early-
 and mid-career staff the confidence to publish in leading historical journals (Luff and Minto in
 American Historical Review; Huzzey, Leonardi, and Liddy in Past & Present) and to produce high-
 quality first monographs (Brown, Crosbie). Liddy held a British Academy (BA) Mid-Career
 Fellowship; Reinhardt and Scales won Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowships; Reinhardt was
 an Elizabeth and J. Richardson Fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton; Wood held
 an AHRC Research Leadership Fellowship; Leonardi was awarded a Carson Fellowship at the
 Rachel Carson Center for Environment and Society, LMU Munich, in 2020; and Strange secured
 a Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship (2020-23).

 Beyond our obligations under the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 (REF5a/3.4), we have appointed post-doctoral researchers to key governance bodies (including
 Stoner, who was a member of the Department’s research committee and Athena Swan working
 group). We have advised post-doctoral researchers on external funding bids in order to establish
 an independent track record for future research careers (Miller as PI for an AHRC research
 network on petitions, arising from his work as a PDRA on a 2016-19 Leverhulme project with
 Huzzey). We have also made departmental research funding available to researchers on
 externally-funded projects for non-funded research expenses.

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Knowledge exchange
 Advised by a senior impact and engagement manager for the Faculty of Arts & Humanities, the
 Department has assisted staff to develop existing points of contact and to share the benefits of
 their research through knowledge exchange with non-HEIs. Knowledge exchange is formalised
 within the Impact Case Studies, but exchange mechanisms act as multiple points of entry to non-
 academic partners and beneficiaries for all staff. Examples include:
  Advisory board membership: Willis was a trustee (2011-15) and chair of the Board of Trustees
    (2015-16) of the Rift Valley Institute (RVI), sustaining its aims for action-oriented research,
    education, and public information for seven countries in Eastern and Central Africa. Leonardi
    is a Fellow of, and consultant to, the RVI, authoring an overview report for the South Sudan
    Customary Authorities project (2018-19). Roche is a member of the International Academic
    Advisory Board of an historical research project on ‘Nordhausen April 1945: Hintergründe,
    Opfer, Erinnerung’, which seeks to understand the reasons for the Allied bombing raid on
    Nordhausen in April 1945, to calculate the death toll from the raid, and to trace the ramifications
    of the raid in post-war (GDR) memory.
   Education partnerships: the Department leads three Widening Participation/Access to
    University programmes, which work with schools, teachers, and parents to encourage
    individuals from non-traditional backgrounds to apply to university. Through the leadership of
    a new staff member (Brown), the Department has also devised its own bespoke programmes
    (Fostering Aspirations and History for Schools) to communicate staff research to local students.
    As part of the ‘Ordered Universe’ pathways to impact, Gasper collaborated with the national
    OxNet access scheme in forming a hub school for a North-East network of 11 schools based
    at Southmoor Academy in Sunderland. This scheme includes PGR tutors, so that impact and
    knowledge exchange are part of early career professional development.
   Consultancy and expert advice: Department staff undertake consultancy in several different
    ways, principally in terms of policy. These extend from the ad hoc to more formal partnerships.
    Wiebel briefed members of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) on the escalating
    political crisis in Ethiopia in 2016, while Willis and Leonardi have run training workshops on the
    Sudan for the FCO and consult for the EU Heads of Mission in Kenya, the Swiss and
    Norwegian Foreign Offices, and governmental departments in South Sudan, Kenya, and
    Ghana. Consultancy is facilitated by University seed-corn impact funds, ESRC impact
    accelerator funding, or other external sources. Gasper and Barraclough both act as academic
    consultants for the Projection Studio, a sound and light projection company, with a sister
    company Tricolor in India.

 Recognition and reward for research and impact
 The Department regards impact and engagement as an integral element in the research process.
 Time is a crucial commodity in this respect, and impact activities are recognised in the workload
 table, in particular for lead academics of potential case studies as they are identified throughout
 the REF cycle. Case study leads, including the authors of reserve cases, receive workload relief,
 as does the deputy director of research for impact. Impact, outreach, and research form part of
 the matrix for promotion and are assessed and rewarded accordingly (REF5a/2.5). Achievement
 in research and impact is celebrated and acknowledged within the Department, Faculty, and
 University. The Department nominates members of staff for the annual University Impact Awards,
 which were inaugurated in 2018 (REF5a/2.5), and for external prizes. Gasper was awarded the
 Durham Arts & Humanities award in 2018 and a Vice-Chancellor’s award for Engagement with
 Research from the University of Oxford in 2016.

 Research students
 Since 2014, the community of research students has grown significantly and become more
 diverse, mechanisms for the training and supervision of research students have become more
 systematic and rigorous, and PGRs, represented by the History PGR forum, are now at the heart
 of the Department’s research activities.

 There have been 50.2 successful completions, compared to 31.3 in REF2014, an increase of
 60%. Within the current REF cycle, annual completions have quadrupled, compared to REF2014.

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The gender ratio of completions has shifted from a slight male majority to a slight female majority
 in the current period. The Department has more than doubled the total number of PhD student
 admissions and tripled the number of international students among these; the number of students
 identifying as BAME/Other ethnicity has almost tripled. Our students in this REF period have come
 from 19 countries outside the UK. These figures reflect the Department’s membership of several
 doctoral training centres, the exploitation of specialist archival resources within the University and
 region, our success in winning external grants, the University’s support for doctoral funding, and
 our own initiatives to recruit national and international students of the highest calibre.

 Recruitment
 The Master’s programme was reviewed and reformed in 2017 to improve students’ preparation
 for doctoral research. The MA in Social and Economic History, accredited by the ESRC, delivers
 specialist training for PhDs and is funded for students with ESRC 1+3 studentships. In addition to
 doctoral projects in British and European economic and social history, four PhD students
 specialising in African history have been funded through the ESRC route. The pathway, which
 provides training in research methods suitable for historians conducting interviews in Africa,
 allowed the Department to reinforce its outstanding reputation for research in the field of African
 history and its role in training the next generation of African historians. Durham’s bursary scheme
 partially addresses the funding gap for students requiring an MA in preparation for doctoral study
 in History, which was created by the AHRC’s policy decision to withdraw MA funding. The
 Department is now planning a four-year PhD programme with integrated training provision in year
 1.

 Since 2014, the national and international recruitment of high calibre PGRs has been vital to the
 research culture that the Department has sought to foster. The Department’s links with University
 special collections, notably the Sudan Archive at Palace Green Library for African history, the
 Oriental Museum for East Asian history, and other special collections, including Durham Cathedral
 and Ushaw College, for national and regional history, have played a prominent role in recruiting
 doctoral researchers. The presence of the Sudan Archive was the specific reason for the
 recruitment of four of the seven doctoral students in African history who joined the Department in
 this REF period. Durham University’s Western Art Collection, distributed across the University’s
 museums and colleges, was essential to the foundation of the Leverhulme Doctoral Training
 Centre (DTC) in Visual Culture, based in CVAC. Recruitment plans since 2014 have also included
 the systematic and collective attendance of staff at annual conferences in the US (Kalamazoo
 International Congress on Medieval Studies, North American Conference on British Studies,
 Renaissance Society of America conference). From 2021, we will exploit our emerging strengths
 in East Asian and South Asian history through the promotion of new funding opportunities, which
 include external schemes such as Korean Scholarships and Commonwealth Scholarships.

 Research studentships
 In this REF period, the Department has broadened its PhD funding, with a total of 36 externally-
 funded studentships awarded. It is a leading partner in the AHRC Northern Bridge DTC and the
 new ESRC NINE Doctoral Training Partnership, both collaborations of seven universities in north-
 east England and Northern Ireland. Sixteen students have been funded by the AHRC DTC and
 seven by the ESRC. The Leverhulme DTC in Visual Culture, led by Jordanova from 2013 in
 conjunction with Durham’s CVAC, funded four studentships in history and the Leverhulme Arctic
 DTC one studentship. One student had a Wolfson Postgraduate Scholarship in the Humanities,
 and five studentships were funded by AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Awards. Partners included the
 Bowes Museum, the British Library, the National Maritime Museum, the National Science and
 Media Museum, and Tyneside Cinema. External grants won by Huzzey and Wood (Leverhulme
 Trust) funded two other studentships. The History Department has also benefited from the
 University’s own doctoral studentship schemes for international students and from co-tutelle
 arrangements with the Universities of Bern, Ghent, and Münster that individual staff initiated.

 Monitoring and support mechanisms
 The support and monitoring mechanisms offered to PGR students in History have improved
 dramatically. After undertaking a review of its PGR provision, the Department addressed concerns

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 around PhD supervision through the design of staff development workshops on best practice in
 doctoral supervision. Led by Green (PGR director, winner of a University Teaching Prize for
 Excellence in Doctoral Supervision, with over 20 PhDs supervised since his appointment in 2000)
 and by John Watts (Director of Graduate Studies in History at Oxford), these workshops led to the
 reform of the Department’s supervision support mechanisms.

 PGR induction is delivered twice a year to accommodate the different start dates of students, and
 the PGR director meets with all first year PhDs in November and March, and with second and third
 year PhDs individually in November. Monitoring mechanisms are linked to evidence of progress
 on a termly and annual basis. The History Department has a model of supervision team
 weightings, 80/20, 60/40, or 60/20/20, so that there is always a lead supervisor with a majority
 weighting, with second and sometimes third expert supervisors providing a smaller share of
 supervision. New developments include a Supervision Team agreement form, which is completed
 annually at the start of each year, with the responsibilities of each supervisor and the expectations
 of students agreed in writing. Records of supervisions are logged online, with the PGR students
 responsible for maintaining, via Durham University Online, a professional record of meetings and
 agreed actions, which are reviewed regularly by supervisors and termly by the PGR director.
 Supervision records feed into the annual reviews and also document contact with international
 students for UK visa requirements. The Department exceeds what is expected by the University
 in its formal review process. There are formal reviews in years 1, 2, and 3: the year 1 review
 requires a 5,000 word submission and outline of research and thesis chapters; the year 2 review
 requires a summary of progress and timetable for completion; the year 3 review aims to ensure
 submission within three years of full-time study (or its equivalent part-time), with a continuation
 period into a fourth year. In this REF period, the Department also introduced a new requirement:
 reviews in years 1 and 3 are accompanied by an oral presentation to peers and academic staff, in
 which PGRs outline the project in year 1 and articulate the thesis in year 3, while formal feedback
 on presentation technique is given by the second supervisor.

 Skills development
 The Department devotes considerable time to the training of its PGR community. In addition to the
 training offered by the Durham Centre for Academic Development (REF5a/3.5), all PGRs in
 History receive training and career development at departmental level, both as a cohort and as
 individuals. Individual Training Needs are reviewed at the start of each academic year, using the
 University’s ‘Training-Needs Analysis’ exercise. Within the Department, all PGRs have the
 opportunity to teach on undergraduate History modules, with departmental training and mentoring
 from module leaders. The main features of the Department’s training for PGR students since 2014
 are:
   Research training workshops: these were introduced by the director of research to support the
     development and acquisition of research skills for PGRs as well as for staff. Workshops have
     focused on new methodologies and data visualisation techniques, such as historical GIS, data
     mining, and social network analysis.
   Research seminars and research groups: PGR students have regularly chaired the
     departmental research seminar and taken a leading role in workshops with distinguished
     external speakers that have accompanied the research seminar. PGRs have also delivered
     work-in-progress papers to the Department’s research groups.
   Impact assistantships: the Department led the way within the University in the employment of
     PGRs as impact assistants (described in section 1), not only to collect evidence for Impact
     Case Studies, but also to gain experiences of event organisation and data gathering and
     analysis beneficial to their career trajectory.
   Career development workshops: these were organised by the PGR director, in consultation
     with the History PGR forum, to give advice on publication strategies, the academic job market,
     and alternative career destinations for PhD students outside academia.
   PGR reading group: this was created by Wood as an intellectual and social space for PhD
     students to discuss themes in ‘Historiography, Theory, Sources, and Methods’ so as better to
     understand the place of their research within the discipline. Meetings, held weekly during term
     time, are led by individual staff, depending on their area of expertise.


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The quality of our PGRs is evident from the articles published in peer-reviewed journals during
 their studentships. Over the REF period, these journals include African Affairs, Historical
 Research, 19: Interdisciplinary Studies in the Long Nineteenth Century, and the Journal of
 Medieval History. Another PGR (researching in African history) published a monograph during his
 studies.

 PGR achievements
 Particular achievements in this REF period are:
  The organisation of international PGR workshops and conferences: these include the annual
    Durham-Münster PGR workshop, which was inaugurated and co-organized with the History
    PGR forum, and, via IMEMS, PGR conferences with colleagues and students at Notre Dame,
    McGill, Toronto, and Boston College.
  Management of the annual programme of the Centre for Contemporary African History: the
    Africanist PGRs have determined its intellectual content and made the practical arrangements
    for visiting speakers.
  Publishing: the Department has routinely assisted doctoral students in publication of edited
    volumes, arising from their organisation of conferences in Durham. Examples include: Crises
    in Economic and Social History: A Comparative Perspective, edited by three Durham PhD
    students, one (Brown) now an assistant professor in the Department; The Church of England
    and British Politics in the Twentieth Century, co-edited by a PGR with Williamson and Grimley;
    Economy and Culture in North-East England, 1500-1800, an edited collection, which has
    chapters written by eight former Durham PhD students; and a special edition of Critical African
    Studies on ‘Valuing Land in Eastern Africa’, edited, and with an introduction, by Leonardi and
    another Durham PhD student.
  Post-PhD collaborations between academic staff and PGRs: Leonardi and a former PhD
    student collaborated on an AHRC network grant, while several Durham doctoral students have
    secured teaching posts (Rozier) and assistant professor positions (Brown and Crosbie) at
    Durham. Through enduring collaboration and conversations with our PGRs after completing
    their PhDs, our research students continue to enrich the research environment of History at
    Durham.

 Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion
 Our successful application in 2018 for the Athena Swan bronze award demonstrates the
 Department’s collective engagement with issues of EDI. Our last two heads of department have
 been women, including Fox, who in January 2018 was appointed the first female director of the
 IHR. Under the guidance of a departmental EDI committee and EDI director, we are now
 implementing the Athena Swan action plan, which includes measures to support the research of
 female staff and other under-represented groups.

 All promotion panels and departmental committees are gender-balanced, and EDI champions sit
 on all departmental committees, including the research committee. Staff returning from parental
 and long-term sick leave meet with mentors and the head of department to consider how the
 Department can best support their research. Those returning from parental leave are entitled to
 apply for one additional term of research leave (REF5a/3.3), while those returning from long-term
 sick leave have a phased return to work. Staff with long-term illness are given reasonable
 adjustments so that they can manage their research, and they benefit from individual advice
 offered by mentors and the head of department. Staff with caring responsibilities can arrange
 flexible working so as to balance their commitments. Research seminars and workshops are
 scheduled within the core working hours to allow staff and research students with caring
 responsibilities to attend. As detailed above, fixed-term staff are employed on 12-month contracts,
 which include a research element, in order to support and strengthen their opportunities for
 academic employment at the end of their term in Durham.

 In preparing our REF submission, we followed Durham’s agreed Code of Practice and enacted
 the key principles of transparency, consistency, accountability, and inclusivity. After a REF
 calibration exercise, in which all members of staff read, graded, and discussed a selection of
 outputs published by historians outside the Department, we appointed a small reading group of

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 five staff (three male and two female) to identify and assess all possible outputs. The research
 pages of the staff handbook made explicit the composition and working practices of this group,
 and individual staff received feedback via the departmental mentoring system. Internal reviewers,
 at least two of which read every potential selection, judged only the quality of the output and
 graded anonymously. A larger pool of reviewers from across the whole Department, distributed
 evenly both by gender and career stage, assisted this group, so that the task of decision-making
 was in every way a shared effort. The scrutiny of a stable group of seven external reviewers (three
 women, four men) calibrated our internal peer review and mitigated the effects of unconscious
 bias. The final selection fairly represents the gender and career stage balance of the Department’s
 staff.

 Attention to the wellbeing of the Department’s staff and research students has shaped our
 research strategy. One member of staff (Roche) founded the Durham University Writing Group for
 postgraduates, postdoctoral researchers, and staff, in order to promote healthy working practices
 and interdisciplinary sociability. A new email policy, implemented in 2017, dramatically reduced
 the volume of emails outside normal working hours, particularly at weekends. The one-to-one
 meetings between the PGR director and the Department’s PhD students, introduced after a
 departmental review, have proved especially valuable for identifying difficulties with progression
 related to either personal issues or physical/mental health. We believe that attention to pastoral
 care for research students is essential to successful completion, and the PGR director has
 encouraged students to access Durham University Counselling Service support where
 appropriate. We established a common room where staff and research students can interact
 during coffee and lunch breaks, and the director of staff development and recruitment has
 arranged regular social events. As the Department has expanded, social interaction has become
 even more important to maintain the collegiality and cohesion necessary for staff and research
 students to produce their best research.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income
 The History Department’s external research income has increased by over 280% from the
 previous REF period (£3.245m, compared to £848k). Sustained improvements to the research
 environment and targeted support for staff at all career stages have transformed external income
 streams beyond the gains that might be expected from the expansion in staff numbers; the growth
 of research income is five times greater than the growth in staffing between the REF2014 and
 2020 assessment periods. Between 2014-15 and 2017-18, the Department’s research income
 grew by 114%, compared to an average of 25% by other History departments in the UK, according
 to the most current HESA data available. This funding assisted the delivery of major publications,
 considerable enlargement of our post-doctoral community, generation of further externally-funded
 research projects, broadening of our engagement with interdisciplinary research, and realisation
 of more ambitious impact activities. History benefits from Faculty-level support for research: over
 the 2014-2020 REF period the Faculty has allocated just over £1.1m to support both individual
 research and strategic research initiatives across its disciplines.

 The increase is the result of the Department’s co-ordinated approach to external funding, in which
 staff generate and refine ideas through participation in the University’s research centres and
 institutes, and benefit from the comprehensive expertise of the specialist teams in the newly-
 created Research Innovation Services (RIS) (REF5a/4.4). With the appointment of a senior
 research development manager for the Faculty of Arts & Humanities, to complement wider, pre-
 and post-award support teams, RIS now provides bespoke information and advice for each stage
 in the preparation of funding applications. The innovation of pitch-to-peer sessions, involving
 academic staff from across the Faculty, occupies a central place in the process. Professional
 services and peer support have re-cast income diversification and proliferation as a communal
 enterprise.

 The holder of the post of deputy director of research for grants and ethics, created in 2016, is
 allocated workload to focus on support for, and promote inclusivity in, grant capture, so that the

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Department submits only applications of the highest quality and is not dependent on serial grant-
 winners. The mentoring system, reinforced by a Department peer review college, has also
 strengthened draft applications. Roundtable workshops for feedback from staff have added to the
 usual forms of internal peer review at Faculty level. The director of research and deputy director
 for grants have organised workshops to demystify the funding process for ECRs and regularly
 informed ECRs of grant writing sessions arranged by RIS. The deputy director for grants is
 required to report, annually, to the Department research committee on the gender balance of
 applicants for external funding and success rates (see also REF5a/4.1).

 Staff in RIS work with the Department’s research officers to identify the most appropriate funding
 schemes. Through individual consultations, we have nurtured an incremental approach to
 research funding in order to construct more ambitious projects and accelerate long-term
 programmes of research. Five staff (Foxhall Forbes, Johnson, McClive, Scales, Wiebel) gained
 BA small grants. Both Liddy and Scales first had BA small grants, which helped Liddy to secure a
 BA Mid-Career Fellowship and Scales to win a Leverhulme Trust Fellowship. Staff have matched
 national funding sources with competitive international schemes; to produce her Oxford University
 Press monograph, Reinhardt augmented her Leverhulme Research Fellowship with time as a
 Visiting Fellow at Princeton’s Institute for Advanced Study. Wood followed his successful
 application to the Leverhulme Trust for a project grant on ‘Everyday Life and Social Relations in
 England, 1500-1640’ (£189k) with an AHRC Research Leadership Fellowship (£165k). The
 AHRC-funded ‘Ordered Universe’ project (£784k), led by Gasper, grew out of an earlier AHRC
 network grant. A 2020-23 AHRC-ESRC project on 20th-century petitioning (£758k) developed
 from Huzzey’s and Miller’s prior Leverhulme project grant and AHRC research network.

 Through new strategic staffing appointments and the promotion of new funding opportunities by
 RIS, the Department has extended the breadth of its funding sources to complement research
 council and charitable grants. Examples of this diversification include funding from the Singapore
 Ministry of Education (Courtney); Academy of Korean Studies (Lee); National Endowment for the
 Humanities (Waite); and Gerda Henkel Foundation (Leonardi, Schiller). The research of Willis on
 ethnicity and patronage in Kenya was funded by a small grant from the FCO, while he was also
 the PI on an ESRC grant on elections in sub-Saharan Africa and is currently PI of an AHRC GCRF
 network on social inclusion in Uganda.

 Through clear and consistent communication between departmental research officers, the
 research development team in RIS, and departmental staff, we have prioritised applications for
 collaborative research projects. We have given these projects particular attention because they
 permit staff, PDRAs, and PhD students to answer problems beyond the scope of lone researchers
 and because they tend to advance the interdisciplinary research that can transform the research
 field. Three AHRC and ESRC Research Projects have drawn in collaborators in other disciplines
 and institutions: the ESRC-funded project on elections in Kenya, Uganda, and Ghana, led by Willis
 with political scientists from Birmingham and Warwick, has produced eight articles and a jointly-
 authored monograph for Cambridge University Press; the AHRC-funded ‘Ordered Universe’
 project is an interdisciplinary exploration of medieval science with a collaborative team of
 humanities scholars and modern scientists from 13 universities, which has produced 15 articles in
 leading science and humanities publications, two edited collections, and the first of six critical
 editions for Oxford University Press. We support ambitious collaborations by our staff, who serve
 as Co-Is on projects based in other departments and other institutions. Examples include: the
 ESRC-DFID grant ‘Energy on the Move’ (Leonardi, with Anthropology), the AHRC project on the
 journals of Hensley Henson, 1900-1939 (Williamson, with the School of Government and
 International Affairs), and the AHRC project on ‘Jewish’ Country Houses (Stammers, with Oxford).

 The Department has encouraged staff to develop and accelerate long-term programmes of
 research through a mix of internal and external support. This strategy is best shown by the
 scientific study of illuminated manuscripts (‘Medieval Pigments’) directed by Gameson. Alumnus
 funding initiated the project in 2013 and sustained it to 2017, permitting collaboration with
 colleagues in Chemistry and leading to the in-house development of a unique mobile suite of
 equipment for pigment identification. Intensive departmental mentoring and peer review at

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 departmental and faculty levels yielded AHRC funding for 2018-2021, facilitating the expansion of
 the work to examine nine centuries of illumination held in repositories the length and breadth of
 the UK, undertaken in collaboration with partners at Northumbria and Cambridge. A successful
 application to the Royal Society (2018-19) for £65k enhanced the equipment.

 We prize the role of post-doctoral fellows in our research community, many of whom have acted
 as focal points for interdisciplinary research. We have built mutually beneficial relationships with
 the University’s centres and institutes, especially the IAS, IMEMS, and the Institute for Medical
 Humanities (REF5a/2.2), and we have invested time to strengthen the best proposals, both in
 external and internal competitions. The post-doctoral community has had its own representative
 on the Department research committee. We have had 13 post-doctoral fellows since 2014,
 compared to two in the previous research assessment: three funded by the Leverhulme, one
 funded by a Marie Curie European Fellowship, one an NWO Rubicon Fellowship, three funded by
 IMEMS Fellowships, and five funded by Co-Fund Fellowships administered by the University’s
 IAS and hosted in the Department. A departmental space reserved for post-doctoral fellows allows
 for collaboration between these independent researchers and PDRAs on funded projects.

 Infrastructure and facilities
 The organisational infrastructure for research and impact in the Department has improved
 considerably. Members of the Department (Taylor, Williamson) spearheaded the reconfiguration
 of the University’s interdisciplinary research centres and institutes around research projects. Staff
 have taken leadership roles in the research centres and institutes that act as hubs for
 interdisciplinary research: Taylor as director of IMEMS; Jordanova as director of CVAC; Davies
 as associate director of the Centre for Modern Conflicts and Cultures; Huzzey and Stammers as
 associate director and director of Education of CNCS; Barraclough as co-associate director of the
 Arctic Research Centre for Training and Interdisciplinary Collaboration. Incubation grants from
 Durham’s IAS have supported visiting interlocutors and interdisciplinary collaborations, such as
 the projects by Schiller on masculinities and martial arts (with scholars in Psychology and Visual
 Studies) and by Foxhall Forbes on environmental change in the first millennium CE (with
 geoarchaeologists, geomorphologists, and anthropologists).

 Staff in History have taken a leading role in the enrichment of the scholarly infrastructure for
 research at Durham. Across different special collections and museums, the University is custodian
 of 3,400 metres of archives, artefacts and art, more than 30,000 maps, and 100,000 photos. The
 appointment of staff specialising in East Asian history (Aricanli, Bronson, Courtney, Lee) has made
 the Oriental Museum a focal point of research and teaching. The East Asianists secured a
 University international engagement travel grant to pay for a leading Chinese historian (Peking
 University) to advise on the cataloguing of uncatalogued resources in the main University library.
 The research of Green on Cosin’s Library, which forms the core of the University’s early printed
 book collections and which was the subject of a University conservation project, was key to the
 reinterpretation of its use as a public library rather than as the private book collection of the 17th-
 century bishop of Durham, John Cosin.

 Additionally, several of the Department’s historians have worked productively with colleagues
 across the University, including with staff in the Department of Theology and Religion, to construct
 new partnerships with Durham Cathedral Library and with Ushaw College, the former Roman
 Catholic seminary located a few miles outside Durham. Members of the Department lead three of
 the five strands for the Durham Priory Library Recreated project, which draws on University and
 cathedral co-funding to digitise and research the dispersed pre-Reformation monastic library for
 scholarly and public access. Williamson is Co-I of an AHRC-funded project that, in partnership
 with Durham Cathedral Library, employs a team of volunteer transcribers to produce a digital
 scholarly edition of the journals of Hensley Henson. Taylor organised an international conference
 at Ushaw on the theme of ‘Libraries, Learning and Religious Identities c.1100-1900’ to launch the
 DRRL in 2019.

 Departmental research and work on the University’s special collections develop symbiotically. As
 adviser to Palace Green Library on acquisitions of medieval material, Gameson has helped to

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 build up the University’s holding of medieval books of hours for the purposes of research and
 teaching. Past and current doctoral students collaborated with Leonardi and the world-leading
 Sudan Archive to hold an international postgraduate conference on ‘The Ethnographic Archive’ in
 2016; the Sudan Archive also contributed to an event led by Willis and Leonardi with the UK
 government Sudan Unit in 2019 and to the AHRC network led by Leonardi and her former PhD
 student. In 2019 researchers in the Department assisted University archivists in securing £302k
 of funding from the National Heritage Memorial Fund, £20k from Friends of the National Libraries,
 £10k from Friends of Palace Green Library, and £304k from the University’s research equipment
 fund, alongside £50k from the Library’s cultural assets acquisitions fund, to purchase the archive
 of John Lambton, 1st Earl Durham (REF5a/4.3). This purchase complements existing collections
 on British political and social history held in Durham, notably the papers of the earls Grey.

 Besides acquiring and preserving collections for our research, the University’s museums and
 libraries support dissemination of our findings. Palace Green Library, refurbished by the University
 in 2011-12 at a cost of more than £12m, has provided space for special exhibitions (REF5a/2.5.1),
 which staff have co-curated. These exhibitions include: the ‘Magna Carta and the Changing Face
 of Revolt’ exhibition (Liddy), which attracted 25,000 visitors in 2015; and the 2018 ‘Hell, Heaven
 and Hope’ exhibition, which featured a multi-media sculpture of the medieval cosmos, the principal
 output from the Leverhulme Artist in Residence grant associated with the ‘Ordered Universe
 project’ (Gasper).

 Just as the Department has grown by 40% in the number of permanent staff, it has also worked
 in partnership with the University to expand its operational infrastructure and facilities. The
 Department has retained its historic home on Durham’s UNESCO World Heritage Site, in a series
 of neighbouring buildings that benefited from extensive renovation in 2015. To accompany the
 investment in new staff, the University added two floors of space in the adjacent Cosin’s Hall, on
 Palace Green. This expansion has allowed us to develop an environment designed to promote
 interaction among staff, PGRs, and post-doctoral fellows, with the institution of a new common
 room and twice-weekly catered coffee breaks. The Department’s expansion since 2014 has also
 been complemented by the enlargement of the PSS staff (from 3 to 5.5 FTE), with administrative
 support for research, public engagement and impact activities, and grant applications provided by
 staff in the Arts & Humanities Faculty Research Hub and RIS. A dedicated departmental
 administrator for postgraduates has overseen the continuation of thesis completion rates in a
 period of rapid expansion in the size of the Department.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration
 Throughout the period of growth, collaboration has been both the ethos and enabling mechanism
 of our research culture. All staff share a belief in the importance of a strong disciplinary identity,
 which prevents fragmentation into sub-fields. In cross-cutting thematic workshops, seminars, and
 reading groups, staff have found new ways to discuss questions, whether thematic,
 methodological, theoretical, or conceptual, which unite rather than divide the discipline.

 Research collaborations with other universities
 Success in winning externally-funded grants has contributed to a distinctive interdisciplinary
 collaboration with researchers in natural sciences. This practice is exemplified in the ‘Ordered
 Universe’ project. Led by Gasper, with Science Co-Is at the Universities of Oxford and York, the
 project has revivified the study of medieval science through a radically interdisciplinary
 methodology, which combines the approaches of medieval specialists and modern scientists.
 Focused on the scientific works of the 13th-century English polymath Robert Grosseteste, the
 ‘Ordered Universe’ began in 2009 as a collaboration between History and Physics within Durham,
 broadening to include Vision Science and partners in Toronto and Rome. Having received internal
 seed-corn funding (departmental, Faculty, IAS, and IMEMS), the project has been supported by
 two successful grant applications to the AHRC (2012-2020), for a network and a standard grant.
 To date, ‘Ordered Universe’ has involved over 165 scholars in disciplines from medieval history to
 computational cosmology, education to classics, arabic studies to computer engineering, with

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 partners in Canada, Italy, Ireland, the Lebanon and the US, as well as seven UK institutions. The
 results include volumes of editions, English translations and multidisciplinary analysis, scientific
 papers, humanities articles and edited volumes; computer simulations of the medieval cosmos,
 short films about particular treatises, podcasts, recorded lectures, posters and teaching material;
 and a significant amount of impact material.

 A second interdisciplinary AHRC-funded grant (2018-21) that works between science and history
 is the ‘Medieval Pigments’ project, which is led by Gameson in conjunction with experts from
 Chemistry at Northumbria and Durham and from Cambridge University’s Fitzwilliam Museum.
 Using a mobile Raman Spectroscopy unit, developed with a Royal Society infrastructure grant,
 the project is transforming the study and conservation of medieval manuscripts. Both ‘Ordered
 Universe’ and ‘Medieval Pigments’ have inspired a new IMEMS network, ‘The Scientific Study of
 Manuscripts’, which is funded by a grant from the Zeno Karl Schindler (ZKS) Foundation to explore
 the possibilities for 360 interpretation of medieval manuscripts from content to materials context.
 Further research collaboration between the Department and science is evidenced in a new IAS
 project on climate change in the first millennium (Foxhall Forbes) and in emerging research
 between Courtney and Earth Sciences on natural disaster management in 19th- and 20th-century
 China. With the new history of science and technology appointment (Martin), whose specialism is
 20th-century Physics, and the award in October 2020 of a Leverhulme Visiting Professorship to a
 specialist in Arabic Science of the Middle Ages at the American University of Beirut, considerable
 potential exists to establish a more comprehensive programme of collaborative research across
 humanities and science.

 Contribution to the economy and society
 The staffing strategy has catalysed and guided greater collaboration through public history. Waite,
 a new appointee in US history, published a series of articles in 2017 in the Washington Post, the
 Los Angeles Times, The Conversation, and the Huffington Post, which brought his research on
 slavery and the American Civil War to bear on the then controversy over Confederate monuments
 in the United States. His article in the LA Times inspired a petition campaign that culminated in
 the removal of a Confederate memorial from Hollywood Cemetery. In partnership with Durham
 County Council, the Department has curated since 2018 a regular series of public talks (‘History
 Now!’) at the Gala Theatre in Durham. To capitalise on their popularity, the Department decided
 to appoint a departmental officer of ‘public history’ to organise an annual programme of free,
 public-facing events. These will present new research by Durham historians (staff, postgraduate,
 or undergraduate) and showcase research in women’s, BAME, and LGBTQ+ history.

 The Department’s longstanding commitment to making archives and special collections more
 accessible to a wider audience has resulted in new collaborations. Barber is the academic lead
 on an international public project, run in conjunction with the Folger Shakespeare Library,
 Washington DC, to investigate and translate the Newdigate manuscript letters. As part of his
 AHRC Research Leadership Fellowship, Wood collaborated with The National Archives (TNA) to
 revise the online catalogue entries for several TNA classes and organised a public symposium
 held at TNA to explain the value of archival sources for the social history of early modern England.
 Mears completed a teacher/student pack of documents on the Reformation for TNA in 2017.
 Davies, an expert on Stalin’s personal archive, advised the Stalin Digital Archive project, while
 Huzzey and Miller gave advice on the digitisation of the Select Committee on Public Petitions for
 the Proquest Parliamentary Papers database, which secured Durham free access to the published
 resource.

 The success of the Lindisfarne Gospels 2013 exhibition, which Gameson co-curated at Palace
 Green Library, inspired staff to curate and contribute to exhibitions locally, nationally, and
 internationally: at Palace Green Library in Durham and Durham Cathedral; the National Glass
 Centre, Sunderland; the Bowes Museum, Barnard Castle; the Imperial War Museum, London; and
 the National Museum, Nairobi. Small was the academic adviser on the Burrell Collection’s
 Tapestry catalogue project, which finished in 2017. Fox was invited by the Imperial War Museum
 in 2016 to assess the BBC Monitoring Service collection, then held at Duxford, and advised on
 how to preserve the collection in future. Leonardi is collaborating with the Pitt Rivers Museum in

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Oxford and with other museums across the UK and continental Europe to present and interpret
 collections from South Sudan.

 Through individual and collective initiatives, we have built new relationships with research libraries,
 collections, and institutes. ‘Medieval Pigments’ (Gameson) is currently working with over 15
 partner libraries (including the British Library, Bodleian Library, National Library of Scotland,
 Hereford and Durham Cathedrals) to encourage better conservation practice and develop
 curatorial knowledge. Waite and Taylor, in his role as director of IMEMS, established a new,
 faculty-wide partnership with the Huntington Library (California), which consists of an annual
 exchange for researchers. This collaboration saw Waite deliver a keynote address at the
 Huntington for the Library’s centennial celebrations in January 2020; Wood will hold the Fletcher-
 Jones Distinguished Fellowship at the Huntington Library in 2022. Research by Stammers, as Co-
 I on the ‘Jewish’ Country Houses AHRC project, has led to collaboration with partners in the UK
 and France (the National Trust, and the Centre des Monuments Nationaux), while Green
 contributed to a ‘Report on the Connections between Colonialism and Properties now in the Care
 of the National Trust, Including Links with Historic Slavery’.

 Finally, individual research has led organically to collaboration with practitioners in the creative
 and performing arts. Wood was historical adviser on two plays: ‘Common’ (performed in 2017 at
 the National Theatre, which made use of Wood’s recent research on rural protest and folklore in
 19th-century England), and ‘Eyam’ (performed in 2018 at the Globe Theatre, which drew on
 Wood’s early work on Derbyshire mining communities in the 17th century). ‘Ordered Universe’
 research has produced multiple pieces of glass art, sculpture, line drawings, photographs, and
 film, as well as collaborations with six pieces of projection art, shown in the UK and the US.

 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline
 The training and examination of PGRs, fundamental to the sustainability of the discipline, has been
 both a collective and individual endeavour. Under the auspices of IMEMS, staff have established
 international research training summer schools, in Latin and Palaeography (2015-), and in the
 Scientific Study of Manuscripts (2019-). The former converted to an online programme in summer
 2020 and was so oversubscribed that three schools will run in 2020-21, while the latter was the
 UK’s first ever summer school in this area. Scales is the co-convenor of both the annual Max-
 Weber-Stiftung/German Historical Institute PGR Medieval History colloquium (Germany, UK, US)
 and the German Historical Institute/German History Society Medieval Germany seminar, which is
 aimed primarily at PGRs from UK, Germany, and North America. Willis ran a two-day archive
 training course for doctoral students in Nairobi in June 2017 and January 2019, as part of the
 ERC-funded doctoral training programme. The AHRC-funded network on petitions, led by Miller,
 made particular provision for PGR engagement and included as participants and presenters 10
 ECRs/PhDs from outside Durham over its three workshops. Staff have examined PhDs in
 Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Ireland, Norway, Spain, and South Africa.

 Leadership of IMEMS, and of the research projects it has funded, has been the backbone of the
 Department’s promotion of interdisciplinary research. Since 2014, IMEMS has funded the Durham
 Cathedral Library Manuscript Hunter 100 Project and a series of interdisciplinary workshops
 (Gasper and Foxhall Forbes) on the interpretation of the contents of the manuscript, which
 includes medical recipes and texts on the calculation of time. It has funded the research and
 activities of the Durham Priory Library Recreated project, an interdisciplinary project to digitise the
 manuscripts and printed texts in the original Priory Library of Durham Cathedral, which is led by
 colleagues from History and with the participation of academics in Theology and Philosophy. In
 his capacity as director of IMEMS, Taylor developed the post-doctoral Solway Fellowship in the
 History of Christianity (c.400-c.1800) and made a successful bid to the ZKS Foundation for two
 further post-doctoral fellowships for research on Durham Priory Library. Taylor will also lead a new
 ‘Cultural Heritage 360’ AHRC scoping project, which brings together scholars in History,
 Chemistry, Physics, Experimental Psychology, and Architecture to investigate the potential for
 Arts and Humanities-led interdisciplinary research in five areas: Arts and Science: Technology;
 Interdisciplinary Modelling; Cultural Content and Value; Cultural Assets and Digital Presentation;
 Cultural Heritage and Creative Industry.

                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 As the Department has grown in size, so we have sought to position ourselves as an international
 centre of historical research. The Department has been very responsive to outward-facing national
 and international priorities and initiatives. Leonardi and Willis have organised ‘Sudan Study Days’
 for the HMG Sudan Desk to share Durham-based research and the Sudan collections. The ESRC-
 DFID Development Frontiers grant for ‘Energy on the Move’, of which Leonardi is the Co-I,
 supports innovative research with the potential for making a radical impact on sustainable
 development and the reduction of poverty. Courtney is a collaborator on a multidisciplinary grant,
 ‘Heat in Urban Asia’, which is funded by the Singapore Ministry of Education and which explores
 the issue of heat in Asian cities. It will create a number of public-facing web resources for citizens
 of several key Asian cities to learn about the past, present, and future of heat alleviation.

 Indicators of wider influence
 One indicator of wider influence is national and international recognition of research. Wood’s 2013
 book, The Memory of the People, won the 2014 Leo Gershoy Award from the American Historical
 Association, while Courtney won the 2019 American Historical Association John K. Fairbanks
 Prize for his 2018 book, The Nature of Disaster in China. Richards was awarded the 2019 RHS
 Alexander Prize for his Past & Present article on slavery and the state in the South Atlantic world.
 Willis’s project on elections in sub-Saharan Africa won an ESRC Excellence Award for
 International Impact in 2019.

 Yet the best indicators are simultaneously conduits of wider influence. Two members of staff
 (Martin, Schiller) are editors-in-chief of leading journals in their respective fields (Physics in
 Perspective and Sport in History), Keys is editor of Modern American History, and Marfany and
 Brown are editors of the interdisciplinary history journal Continuity and Change. Leonardi was the
 editor of Critical African Studies from 2014 to 2018, and Strange editor of the Journal of Victorian
 Culture between 2015 and 2017. Staff currently serve on the editorial boards of 15 journals and
 seven monograph series.

 Most staff are routinely asked to referee journal submissions, monograph manuscripts, and grant
 applications. In this REF period, staff have refereed for over 90 journals and evaluated
 submissions for many leading academic presses: Oxford University Press, Cambridge University
 Press, Manchester University Press, Bloomsbury Academic, Cornell University Press, Yale
 University Press, Princeton University Press, MIT Press, and Harvard University Press. The
 number and range of research councils for which staff have acted as peer reviewers reflects the
 increasing diversity of staff research interests. They include the: Australian Research Council;
 Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada; Estonian Research Council;
 Croatian Science Foundation; French Agence Nationale de la Recherche; Deutsche
 Forschungsgemeinschaft; Polish Academy of Sciences; Italian Research Agency; Irish Research
 Council; US National Science Foundation; Flemish Research Foundation; Commonwealth
 Scholarship Commission; Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research; and European
 Research Council. Six staff are currently members of the AHRC peer review college (Foxhall
 Forbes, Gasper, Riggs, Schiller, Small, Strange); two (Gasper, Mears) are members of the UKRI
 Future Leaders Peer Review College; Small, who received a Gold Standard Award in 2019 as
 special recognition for his long and outstanding service to the AHRC, is both a peer reviewer and
 a strategic reviewer; Strange and Willis are members of the ESRC peer review college; and
 Davies is a member of the International grant review panel (History) for the Academy of Finland.

 Several members of the Department have served on learned societies, national organisations,
 and research committees. At the beginning of this REF period, three staff were on the council of
 the RHS simultaneously (Fox, Taylor, Williamson), and two were officers. Taylor was, until 2018,
 academic editor of the online Bibliography of British and Irish History, and he was in the same
 period editor of the Church of England Record Society. Keys was president of the Society for
 Historians of American Foreign Relations, the preeminent professional academic organisation
 devoted to the study of the history of international relations, in 2019-20, and serves on the
 Society’s council, while Huzzey is a member of the Advisory Council of the IHR. As chair of the
 research committee of the British Institute in Eastern Africa since 2013 (and from 2017 to 2019

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 vice-president for research), Willis oversees the giving of grants and the co-ordination of the
 research programme of this interdisciplinary institute, one of the British International Research
 Institutes sponsored by the British Academy.




                                                                                          Page 19
