Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Northumbria at Newcastle

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 28 History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview:
 History at Northumbria is a thriving discipline, characterised by excellence in research,
 collaboration within and outside the academy, and a commitment to developing our community of
 scholars at every stage of their careers. Our research spans seven centuries and six continents,
 and across this REF cycle we have deliberately expanded our geographical and chronological
 range, and the interdisciplinary outlook of our research. Our six research groups, Global and
 Transnational History, Histories of Activism, Environmental Humanities, American Studies,
 Conflict and Society, and Medieval and Early Modern Studies, exemplify our areas of particular
 strength. In the spirit of the 2016 Stern Review, all 37.9 FTE History staff at Northumbria are being
 submitted to this Unit of Assessment (an increase from 20 FTE in REF2014 and 8.11 FTE in
 RAE2008). The 86 outputs we are submitting to REF2021 are selected from a pool of publications
 that includes 40 monographs, 20 edited collections, and more than 100 journal articles. In a highly
 competitive environment, research grant and contract income has grown from £215,237 in the last
 REF to £872,028 in 2020. Since 2014 we have hosted four Leverhulme Early Career Fellows and
 have benefited from funding from the AHRC, ESRC, British Academy, and Leverhulme Trust,
 while also diversifying our funding sources beyond RCUK. Our postgraduate research culture has
 been transformed, with the number of PhD completions rising from 6 in the previous REF cycle to
 34 in the current cycle. From 2014, we were part of the AHRC Heritage Doctoral Training
 Partnership and in 2019 we joined the AHRC Northern Bridge Consortium, through which we
 recruit and train PhD researchers alongside six other HEIs in the North East of England and
 Northern Ireland. We have also increased our contribution to our discipline via leadership in
 subject associations, editorial appointments, and the hosting of international conferences.


 Strategy:
 In REF2014 our Unit ranked 18th nationally for our outputs, and 41st in overall GPA. Our strategy
 in 2014 focused on developing areas of excellence, through our four research groups at that time:
 British and Irish Worlds, Histories of Activism, Medieval and Early Modern, and US History. This
 focus on clusters of research strength helped us to meet the objectives in our strategic plan for
 2013-20: to manage the growth of our unit in a sustainable way, to increase external funding
 through mentoring and collaboration, to grow our PhD community, and to develop our international
 profile. Our significant expansion in the last six years reflects Northumbria University’s investment
 in the Unit following our strong performance in 2014, and our capacity for attracting outstanding
 historians from around the UK and internationally. Our distinctive culture of trust and collaboration



                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 allows colleagues to navigate the challenges of a research career, including preparing for
 REF2021 itself, in an open, supportive and collegial environment.


 While we have continued to build new and established areas of thematic strength, as a growing
 community of researchers we have also sought to extend our geographical breadth (most recently
 to Africa, India and the Middle East), and have deliberately expanded in the pre-1600 period and
 in contemporary history. Our UoA now includes business, cultural, environmental, gender,
 migration, political, religious and social historians. Our research groups remain central to the
 research culture and research strategy in History. They encourage synergy and cross-pollination
 of ideas across the History team, and we use them to share work in progress, build links with
 national and international networks, and engage with external partners and audiences. As we have
 made new appointments, we have reconfigured these groups in order to reflect new cross-
 connections and emerging specialisms in our research. We have also developed a more
 consciously interdisciplinary direction, so that all six research groups involve colleagues in other
 disciplines – for example English, Music, Art and Geography. Our new appointments have been
 designed explicitly to extend or make cross-connections between the specialisms of our research
 groups (see staffing strategy, below).


 Our research culture has also benefitted from Northumbria University’s strategic investment,
 following REF 2014, in a new Institute of the Humanities (IoH). The IoH provides an intellectual
 home for Humanities researchers across the university, and it has enabled us to work
 collaboratively with colleagues in other disciplines within our department (English Literature,
 Creative Writing, Linguistics) and outside it (Arts, Criminology, Geography, Engineering, Business
 and Law). The IoH’s objectives encompass campaigning for the value of Humanities research, the
 promotion of cross-disciplinarity within and beyond traditional ‘Humanities’ fields of scholarship,
 and the sharing of our research beyond the university.


 Our impact strategy involves working collaboratively with partners to understand and address
 contemporary challenges through knowledge of the past. The co-designing of projects with
 partners, accompanied by collaborative research funding applications, is evident in Webster’s
 work on the history of the Co-op (funded directly by the Co-op, with whom he has also applied to
 the research councils), and in Laqua’s partnerships with the National Union of Students and the
 Workers’ Educational Association, with whom he has won funding from the AHRC and non-RCUK
 sources. Skelton’s work on historic flood mitigation involves partnerships with the Environment
 Agency, Northumbria Water and the Tyne Rivers Trust, and is designed to benefit communities
 struggling with this urgent problem today. As historians our work generates impact in the civic and
 cultural life of our region through longstanding partnerships with cultural and creative organisations
 (Tyne and Wear Archives and Museums, the Bowes Museum, and Newcastle’s Literary and


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Philosophical Society, for example). Our four impact case studies demonstrate the power of our
 research to create and sustain beneficial impact across a range of communities, but (as illustrated
 in section 4 below) all colleagues and research groups understand the value of their work beyond
 the academy. Impact activity is supported by the University’s impact support team, based in
 Research and Innovation Services (RIS), who advise on pathways to impact and evidence
 collection. Impact is supported through the academic workload planner, designated impact
 sabbaticals, and a Faculty fund for impact-related research assistance.


 Our plans for the next cycle reflect our areas of research strength, our growing track record of
 supporting postdoctoral researchers, and opportunities for interdisciplinary working through the
 IoH. Between 2021 and 2028 we aim to:
    •   Invest in our Institute of the Humanities as the forum through which we work across
        disciplines and engage with non-academic beneficiaries of our research
    •   Apply our research to local and global challenges, regarding the environment, conflict and
        activism
    •   Launch the Connected Histories Centre, a multi-institutional, outreach-focused home for
        Global and Transnational History in the North East
    •   Develop our postdoctoral community, extending our success in supporting Leverhulme
        ECRs to other postdoctoral funding schemes, and to collaborative grants that support
        postdoctoral fellows
    •   Build on our success in winning scholarships through both standard and CDA routes in the
        AHRC-funded Northern Bridge Consortium
    •   Extend our international profile, hosting major conferences, attracting visiting fellows and
        offering leadership in international scholarly networks and learned societies.


 Structure:
 History is co-located with English in the Department of Humanities, and the leadership of the two
 units work closely to encourage, inform and support each other. Our collaboration in research was
 cemented following REF2014 by major investment from the University in the Institute of the
 Humanities. The IoH is directed by Aston and has dedicated physical space, equipment and
 funding. Its mission is to enable research that is interdisciplinary and outward facing, and in
 practical terms it (a) runs a weekly cross-disciplinary seminar series and hosts symposia and
 workshops to support research; (b) provides funding for interdisciplinary ‘banner’ projects that are
 expected to lead to grant capture; (c) hosts visiting fellows who are working with colleagues in
 Humanities. The Institute’s dedicated space is used by members to host seminars, conferences
 and meetings: for example the 2019 networking workshop, ‘Female Entrepreneurs in the Long
 Nineteenth Century: In Search of a Global Perspective’, which involved an IoH Visiting Fellow
 (Bishop), along with 26 participants from 5 continents. The IoH moved its seminar online in 2020,


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 increasing its global reach and providing a welcome weekly opportunity for colleagues to get
 together and hear about research despite the challenges brought about by Covid-19.


 All members of the History team belong to one of our six research groups, and many colleagues
 participate in more than one. Membership is intentionally fluid. Most groups are driven by a
 common theme or approach that brings colleagues together across geographical and
 chronological boundaries; although in some cases where we have particularly strong capacity, we
 use a geographical or chronological focus to draw colleagues together across disciplines. Of the
 Unit’s six research groups, new, multi-disciplinary capacity has been developed in four areas since
 2014. Global and Transnational History and Environmental Humanities are wholly new
 initiatives, reflecting new appointments. The American Studies research group developed
 organically from the US History group in 2017, reflecting a greater emphasis on interdisciplinarity,
 while the Conflict and Society research group was formed in 2018 to reflect synergies between
 new and established staff members. These new groups augment two existing clusters: the
 Medieval and Early Modern Studies research group and Histories of Activism.


 Members of the Global and Transnational History group are united by a shared methodological
 interest in global, transnational and connected approaches. The group’s members study cross-
 cultural contact and exchange from the pre-modern to the contemporary period. The group
 established the inter-institutional North East Transnational and World History Research Centre
 (NETWoRC), led by Gottmann and Hill and hosted by Northumbria, which hosts a fortnightly
 lunchtime seminar involving colleagues from Northumbria, Newcastle, Durham, and Sunderland
 Universities. Since the arrival of Hill the group has set up a collaboration with Oxford University in
 global political economy with funding from Brasenose College and the Past and Present Society,
 matched by Northumbria. The group is shaping the field in transnational history ranging from the
 late medieval and early modern world (Murphy, Kosior) to contemporary history (Anderson,
 Francis), and covering the Americas (Francis, Gleeson and RWright), the Middle East (Hill),
 Africa (Livsey) and Asia (Anderson), Central and Eastern Europe (Alston, Kosior) and
 European-Asian relations (Anderson, Gottmann). They share interests in the study of the urban
 environment (Livsey and RWright); early modern diplomatic relations and kingship (Kosior and
 Murphy); the connected flow of ideas, ideologies, and objects (Gottmann and Hill); the role of
 ethnicity, religion, and diaspora in the former British Empire and Anglophone world (Bueltmann,
 Gleeson, Hardwick, Anderson); and cooperative movements, activist networks and international
 organisations as pioneers of globalisation (Alston, Laqua and Webster). The group has a
 growing network of international and third sector collaborations, e.g. with the Cooperative Group,
 Cooperative College and Cooperative Archives (Webster), the Durham Oriental Museum, Bowes
 Museum and the German Museum of Technology (Gottmann), and the Union of International
 Associations (Laqua). The award of a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship to Gottmann in 2020 is a


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 major boost to the group as it will fund two postdoctoral fellows, a PhD student and the
 establishment of a multi-institutional, outreach-focused Connected Histories Centre from 2025.


 The strategic development of Environmental Humanities (coordinated by Devienne) is a new
 initiative within the Unit since REF2014. Group members focus on changing attitudes toward the
 natural environment, the political and cultural history of resource use, and the production of place.
 They have published major studies within the cycle on the environmental history of Dartmoor
 (Kelly), the urban and environmental history of early modern Britain (Skelton), and California’s
 beach culture (Devienne). Members have built international partnerships with the Rachel Carson
 Center, Munich and the Max Planck Institute in Berlin (Kelly), and Australian National University
 (Hardwick), while developing collaborations with public, private and third sector partners like the
 New Forest Association and Northumberland Wildlife Trust (Kelly) and the Environment Agency,
 Northumbria Water, and the Tyne Rivers Trust (Skelton). The arrival of West as a Leverhulme
 ECR Fellow working on publishing and the built environment in Black Chicago, and of Livsey as
 a Vice Chancellor’s Fellow (VCF) from 2019 researching housing and state-building in West Africa,
 have strengthened the group’s focus on the urban environment. In 2020 a further Leverhulme
 Fellow, Roddy, joined the group working on border landscapes and regional identity. His research
 connects with work on borderlands by colleagues in Arts and English. The group brought Professor
 Peter Coates (Bristol) to Northumbria as an IoH Visiting Fellow, and hosted the British Academy
 conference ‘New Lives, New Landscapes: Rural Modernism in Twentieth-Century Britain’ (2019).


 The Conflict and Society research group (convened by Williams) brings together expertise in
 the history and literary representation of conflict from 1500 to the modern day. The group’s
 emphasis is on the relationship between armed conflict, social developments and cultural
 production. Members have published major books on masculinity and warfare (Robb), genocide
 in the British Empire (Lawson), the Tudor occupation of Boulogne (Murphy), and the cultural
 history of Ulster Protestantism (Parr). Group members have led funded projects on the First World
 War and its aftermath, including McConnel’s Leverhulme Research Fellowship on cultural
 representations of Irish soldiers, his AHRC-funded citizen history project on ‘Dominion Geordies’,
 and Laqua’s collaborative project on students and ex-servicemen. A Heritage Consortium funded
 postgraduate group member (Foster) organised the AHRC and RHS funded conference ‘Objects
 in and after Conflict’. The appointments of Williams and Beorn (2019), have built capacity in the
 study of the Holocaust. The group hosted the twenty-first Conference of Irish Historians in Britain
 in 2018, bringing international scholars together to reflect on the twentieth anniversary of the Good
 Friday Agreement.


 The American Studies research group (convened by Andelic) comprises eleven Americanists
 (seven of whom are historians), making it one of the most important centres for American Studies


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in Europe. The group's members share a multi-disciplinary approach (including history, literature,
 politics, music and cultural studies) that offers a rounded understanding of the United States in
 national, regional and global contexts. The group has published major studies on American
 cultural conservatism (Street), the early US recording industry (Ward), the British diaspora in
 North America (Bueltmann), transatlantic civil rights activism (Ward), and evangelicals and rock
 music (Stephens). The appointment of RWright (2018) and Devienne (2019) has augmented the
 group’s strengths in 20th Century US cultural and environmental history, while Badger and
 Andelic have enhanced its expertise in 20th Century politics. The group hosted the 2015
 conference of the British Association of American Studies (BAAS), as well as the annual
 postgraduate conferences of BAAS and HOTCUS (Historians of the Twentieth Century United
 States), and externally-funded symposia on ‘Music and Social Movements’ and ‘Midterms and
 Mandates’ (both 2018). Two group members (Gleeson and Ward) have been appointed
 distinguished lecturers by the Organization of American Historians.


 The focus of the Medieval and Early Modern Studies research group (convened by Kosior) is
 on the history of Britain, Europe and the wider world before 1700. The group provides a forum for
 researchers in History, English Literature, Art, and Music to share work on gender and cultural
 production, monarchies and court culture, social networks, identity and cultural exchange, and
 emotions and the body. The group has published major studies on royal courts and urban
 culture in late medieval France (Murphy), queenship in sixteenth-century France and Poland
 (Kosior), Christian spirituality in fifteenth-century Spain (Solares), music at the Elizabethan court
 (Butler), and the urban and environmental history of early modern Britain (Skelton). French
 history is a strength in the group, with work by Murphy, Kosior and Gottmann exploring French
 court culture and trade in global context. Twomey, Solares, and Knox constitute another strong
 cluster with a focus on the early-modern Iberian peninsula. Murphy organised the RHS funded
 ‘Ritual and Ceremony’ conference, and members of the group have partnered with Newcastle
 Cathedral on public engagement events including ‘Plague and War in Newcastle’. Kosior and
 Butler organised an IoH symposium on ‘Sex and Gender Politics’ in early modern Europe in 2019.


 Researchers in the Histories of Activism group (convened by Laqua) examine political protests
 and campaigns, the promotion of alternative economic and social models, and measures for the
 protection of particular groups in society. The group has published major studies on French
 republican identity (O’Brien), French socialism (JWright), and the government of the early Soviet
 Union (Douds). In 2014, an international workshop resulted in two themed journal issues
 (European Review of History; Journal of Modern European History) edited by Alston and Laqua.
 The group has hosted high-profile events including the 2014 conference of the Social History
 Society, two annual conferences of the Study Group on the Russian Revolution (2016, and the
 centenary year of 2017), and a 2016 Society for the Study of Labour History conference on


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘Revolutionary Pasts: Representing the Long 19th Century’s Radical Heritage’. In 2016, O’Brien
 was awarded funding by the Society for the Study of French History to bring Professor Dominique
 Kalifa (Université Paris 1 – Panthéon-Sorbonne) to Northumbria, as the Society’s first ever Visiting
 Fellow to the UK. The arrival of Anderson (2020), working on the Indian diaspora and
 multiculturalism in Britain, extends the group’s existing interest in diasporic activism (Alston,
 Francis).


 Open Access and ethical research practice: We recognise the importance of making our
 research available to the widest possible audience. We also acknowledge the challenges of
 funding publishing, whatever the route, and the importance of making sure that hidden inequalities
 in the production and consumption of research are not exacerbated. Colleagues involved in editing
 journals are at the forefront of efforts to facilitate OA publication. French History (co-ed. JWright)
 belongs to the Oxford stable of journals and adopts the protocols of ‘Oxford Open’. Holocaust
 Studies (co-ed. Lawson) offers a range of OA options. Francis is co-editor of the journal Radical
 Americas which has been open access from its inception, while Smith is the editor of the OA
 journal Scottish Music Review. Alston is a member of the editorial board of the Royal Historical
 Society’s ‘New Perspectives’ monograph series, which publishes simultaneously in hard copy and
 OA format. Her role as Secretary of History UK means that she is engaged in discussions about
 OA publishing within our field. Colleagues have been briefed on Open Access requirements
 through a series of OA roadshows led by RIS, and through regular email reminders. All of the in-
 scope outputs published after 1 April 2016 that we are submitting meet REF OA policy
 requirements. We prioritise publications funded by the research councils or where we believe the
 research merits speedy and/or wide dissemination for the Gold OA route, and mandate green OA
 as a minimum. Besides our journal articles, Murphy’s 2016 monograph was published as a ‘born
 digital’ ebook, while 2019 book chapters by Aston and Hill were published by the Gold OA route.
 We expect our next REF submission to manifest a broader spectrum of longer format OA-
 compliant outputs, and will work to ensure that early-career and non-established academics are
 able to publish in this way.


 Research carried out in the Unit complies with Universities UK’s Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity, which covers plagiarism, impartial peer review, data management protocols, and
 research ethics and governance. The University operates an online research ethics system
 through which researchers assess their projects’ risk level. Researchers are expected to
 undertake ethics training every three years, and can only supervise doctoral students if their
 training is up to date. Our Department has its own ethics coordinator, who is responsible for
 coordination and review of ethics applications.




                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development:
 Our expansion from 20 to 37.9 FTE in this cycle results from strategic investment in research
 capacity in History but also from a commitment to replacing colleagues who have moved to other
 institutions, the growth of our postdoctoral community, and crucially, transformative mentoring to
 support existing colleagues in becoming research active. 12 current members of the Unit featured
 in Northumbria’s History submission in REF2014. Three were not submitted to REF2014 but are
 now included. 15 are new permanent posts across the cycle, including six appointments to Vice
 Chancellor’s Fellowships (VCFs), and seven are appointments to replace colleagues who have
 left. Two are current Leverhulme ECFs, and one is a full-time 12-month teaching replacement
 funded by Leverhulme, in post on the REF census date. In our UoA there are 10 Professors, two
 Associate Professors, 22 colleagues at Lecturer/Senior Lecturer level, and six Postdoctoral
 Research Fellows.


 Our strategy for appointments in this cycle has focused on extending the range of expertise within
 our research groups and making cross-connections between our areas of strength. In 2015-16
 Northumbria launched a fund to support the establishment of multi-disciplinary research themes,
 and our Department made three appointments in Environmental Humanities. Two of these were
 in History: one a VCF (Skelton) and the other at professorial level (Kelly); the third was a
 professorial appointment in Literature. This initiative acknowledged the importance of this
 emerging interdisciplinary field, but also reflected the potential for bringing together researchers
 already at Northumbria (in History Hardwick, working on religious responses to natural disasters,
 and Stephens, working on the American dustbowl). In 2018-19 we made two further appointments
 that bridge our Environmental Humanities and American Studies research groups (RWright,
 working on energy history, and Devienne, on beach culture and coastal histories). Similarly, in
 2019 we expanded our capacity in the history of genocide and the Holocaust, building on the
 leadership of Lawson in this field with the appointment of Beorn and Williams. We have a
 longstanding commitment to global and transnational history, and through the 2019 round of
 Northumbria’s VCF competition we extended our global reach by appointing researchers working
 on Africa and the Middle East (Livesey and Hill). In 2020 we made a further appointment in the
 history of the Indian diaspora (Anderson). We have deliberately maintained and expanded our
 research and teaching in the pre-1600 period, through the appointment of Skelton (2016),
 Gottmann (2017), and Kosior (2018).


 A key indicator of the Unit’s development is our growing success in attracting talented postdoctoral
 researchers and the funding to support their work. The Unit currently has seven postdoctoral
 research fellows: Kosior, West and Roddy (appointment after the REF census date) are
 Leverhulme EC Fellows, while Douds, Francis, Hill, and Livsey are VCFs. Two further

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 postdoctoral fellows will be appointed in 2021 to the project team for Gottmann’s UKRI-funded
 project ‘Migration, Adaptation, Innovation, 1500-1800’. Our PDRFs are accommodated in
 dedicated office space within the IoH. They are mentored by a senior expert in their field, and line-
 managed outside that arrangement with a focus on career next steps. VCFs have a light teaching
 load in their first three years, and are gradually integrated into teaching in the department. Parr
 and Skelton transitioned to permanent appointments two years into their VCF contracts in 2018,
 while Gottmann and Kosior moved from Leverhulme ECF contracts to Lectureship/Senior
 Lectureship in 2019 and 2020 respectively. Douds, Hill and Livsey were appointed as VCFs for
 their first three years but are on permanent contracts from the outset. Our strategy for growth is
 informed by the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. Where fixed-term
 contracts are used to replace staff on externally-funded leave, we do not use teaching-only
 contracts and we appoint for 12 months in order to maximise research time for new entrants to the
 profession. Fixed-term colleagues receive the same support as permanent academic staff
 (including workloaded research time, a mentor, and research funds). Both Cooper (2017-18) and
 O’Donoghue (2019-20) were allocated a research mentor and received financial support to lead
 research events. We bring the Concordat to the attention of our final-year doctoral candidates,
 and we have introduced training for PIs to ensure they create an appropriate developmental
 culture for PDRAs on their projects.


 We have invested significantly in the training, development and mentoring of our cohort of junior
 researchers. Our submission to REF2021 includes six ECRs, and a further ten colleagues meet
 the AHRC definition for ECR funding routes (being within eight years of their PhD). In their
 probation period new colleagues benefit from a reduced teaching load, and we aim to accelerate
 the access of ECRs to our sabbatical scheme. The University runs an ECR Forum, and the ECR
 voice is influential through University and Faculty Research committees. RIS runs an ECR
 development programme which offers an introduction to the funding landscape, preparing
 applications, and impact and engagement strategies. ECRs are central in leading and shaping the
 direction of our research groups.


 Our mentoring system is crucial to staff development, and we have further developed this over the
 current REF cycle. Colleagues are allocated a line manager but are asked to choose a mentor,
 who may be outside the subject unit (Lawlor in Literature is mentor to Laqua) and may change
 according to an individual’s mentoring needs. Mentors read drafts of funding applications and
 publications, and help colleagues map themselves against Northumbria’s promotions criteria. All
 research mentors attended a workshop on the coaching approach to mentorship conducted by
 Advance HE in April 2018, as part of our strategy to develop the value of our mentoring system.
 We also benefit from the experience of senior colleagues who support ECR career progress in our
 broader field. Webster convenes the Cooperative College’s ECR network. Alston acts as mentor


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to early career authors in her role on the editorial board of the Royal Historical Society’s
 monograph series. The roles of Laqua in the Society for the Study of Labour History, JWright in
 the Society for the Study of French History and Alston in History UK have involved supporting
 ECRs through training events and funding opportunities.


 We are committed to translating our good ECR development practices to mid-career researchers
 (MCRs), and a feature of this cycle has been support for colleagues who were not submitted in
 REF2014 so that they are now included in our REF2021 submission. The Faculty has recently
 introduced an MCR Forum to gauge and support the developmental needs of mid-career staff. We
 are especially aware of the challenge of retaining research momentum faced by colleagues
 moving in and out of leadership roles. McConnel’s responsibilities as Head of Subject between
 2010 and 2018 led to focused support (mentoring and funding) that resulted in his successful
 Leverhulme Research Fellowship. We also recognise development needs within the professoriate:
 in 2018 we introduced peer-mentoring for all professors, as we believe that professorial career
 progression requires the same developmental support as at other career stages.


 The Director of Research maintains a sabbatical rota, earmarking sabbatical semesters for all staff
 based on a 1-in-6 cycle (above the University’s 1-in-7 policy). This enables colleagues to take at
 least two semesters of sabbatical in each REF cycle. Colleagues can apply for a sabbatical to
 support publication, preparation of research funding applications, or impact activities. Staff on
 fractional contracts enjoy equal access to the scheme. We accelerate leave for strategic reasons:
 to support colleagues returning from parental leave, or to kick-start research following a period of
 administrative/leadership duties. Additionally, we manage teaching delivery to ensure that all staff
 have a ring-fenced research day every week. Where possible in this cycle we have ensured that
 this falls on the same day for all history colleagues, reducing email traffic to a minimum on that
 day. In 2020, in response to Covid-19, the IoH set up externally-facilitated writing workshops to
 support colleagues’ research.


 We have worked hard to create a supportive culture that acknowledges the challenges faced by
 researchers and celebrates achievement. Good communication has been vital in building this
 culture of solidarity and recognition. Preparation for REF2021 has involved peer-review of external
 publications in open, transparent workshops, enabling the work of the internal peer review group
 to be supported and understood across the unit. All funding awards, the organization of events,
 and interim successes (e.g. shortlisting for the AHRC/BBC R3 New Generation Thinkers scheme)
 are publicly acknowledged by an email from the Director of Research. PhD viva successes are
 marked by a unit-wide email from the PGR Lead (Robb). An annual History research newsletter
 collates all the events and achievements in our research calendar. We also incentivise research



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 activity: grant holders benefit from the University’s QR reward scheme which allows a small
 proportion of the grant overhead to be used on research-related travel or materials.


 Equality & Diversity: We are committed to understanding and addressing inequality, and to
 fostering an inclusive and empowering culture. The Royal Historical Society’s 2018 Race, Ethnicity
 & Equality Report and the second RHS report on Gender Equality have been central to our work
 in this area. At a departmental away day in January 2019 we worked in targeted groups to consider
 the RHS reports’ recommendations for our work, including for research management and PGR
 matters. Our research and the research of our PGR students – on race, gender and activism – are
 also drivers for our commitment to equality and inclusion. Northumbria holds an institution-wide
 Athena SWAN Bronze Award, and Ward is taking a leading role in our Departmental Self-
 Assessment Team. We have also benefitted from the expertise of Gottmann, who was a member
 of the national panel assessing Athena SWAN applications in 2017-18, and has acted as an
 external advisor to other institutions tackling this process. Our Department’s dedicated ED&I lead
 (Elliott) has won funding from the university to deliver tailored EDI initiatives, including workshops
 run by an EDI consultant (attended by the Director of Research and HoD) on ‘Leading Effective
 Change’. All colleagues have undertaken unconscious bias training, and those involved in
 research leadership have attended Advance HE training on unconscious bias in relation to REF.


 We have brought forward research seminars (to 4 pm) to facilitate the attendance of staff with
 family responsibilities, and we guarantee colleagues one day per week free of teaching in
 termtime, as we know that work progresses more quickly when researchers can block out time.
 We have created bespoke packages of research leave to help colleagues returning from maternity
 leave recover momentum (Robb in 2019, and RWright in 2020). All interviews for jobs or PhD
 funding are conducted by mixed gender panels, and participants undergo fair selection training.
 We deliberately seek diversity in both the topics of papers and invited speakers in our seminar
 series (including nationality, race, religion, sexual orientation and gender identity).


 We take seriously the need to address the gender imbalance within the discipline. At the REF
 census date, 41% of colleagues in History are female, up from 35% in REF2014. The gender
 balance in our unit is represented precisely in the outputs we are submitting to REF. Women
 constitute 33% of the Unit’s professoriate, compared to 26.2% nationally (according to the RHS’s
 Second Gender Report), and in this cycle three female colleagues have been promoted to
 professorships (Alston, Bueltmann, Twomey). Three key research leadership positions are
 occupied by women: Alston is Director of Research, Aston is Director of the IoH, and Robb is
 PGR Lead. Our aim, through our Athena SWAN application and our developing good practice on
 gender equality, is to create an inclusive culture that can help us to address pressing equality
 issues in terms of race and ethnicity. A BAME staff network was established across the University


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in 2020 to provide a confidential environment for all staff who self-identify as coming from a Black,
 Asian or Minority Ethnic background. Lawson is the chair of Northumbria’s Race Equality Charter
 Team, which is committed to understanding, removing and overcoming racial inequalities at
 Northumbria. In 2020 we appointed to a post focused on the history of ethnic minorities in Britain
 (Anderson). We are seeking to address diversity within our postgraduate student body also,
 through Aston’s collaboration with partners including the Rowntree Society to develop funded
 opportunities targeted to ethnic minority students.


 Research students: The Unit’s PGR community has grown substantially since the last REF cycle,
 enabling us to report 34 completions in this cycle compared to 6 in REF2014. This increase reflects
 the Unit’s growing reputation as a provider of doctoral education. Each year History candidates
 compete for studentships allocated to the Faculty through the University’s Research Development
 Fund (RDF), and we have won 3-4 of these studentships per year over the current REF cycle. Our
 success in this internal competition is an endorsement of our capacity to attract high quality
 candidates and our record of supervising students to timely completion.


 This success has been complemented by our involvement in two AHRC doctoral training consortia
 over the current REF cycle. Between 2013-2019 Northumbria was a member of the Heritage
 Consortium, supported by £1.85M of funding from AHRC and £1.1M in institutional match funding.
 Northumbria also funded an MRes studentship in Heritage for five successive years, to generate
 prospective PhD applications to the consortium. In 2019 we joined the Northern Bridge Consortium
 (NBC), which brings together seven universities in North East England and Northern Ireland. In
 2019 we were awarded our first studentship in History through the standard route, and we built on
 that in 2020, winning two Collaborative Doctoral Studentships (with the National Union of
 Students, and the Northumberland National Park) and a further studentship through the standard
 route. These were 3 of only 11 studentships awarded in History across NBC in 2020. In addition
 to RDF and NBC studentships, during this REF cycle we have hosted AHRC-funded Collaborative
 Doctoral Studentships in partnership with the National Railway Museum (from 2017) and the
 Bowes Museum (from 2020).


 History has a dedicated PGR Lead (Robb), who supports the PhD cohort. Beyond the University’s
 PGR training provision, we run our own tailored PGR Training Programme in Humanities, which
 runs over 20 weeks from October to May. It is designed with input from our PhD cohort, and
 includes sessions on conference presentation and organisation, publication and open access,
 impact and engagement, and applying for external funding. PhD candidates are supported to
 organize their own training and methodological workshops, which are open to researchers from
 across the region: Keil secured an AHRC Collaborative Skills Development Grant for this purpose
 during his PhD. Under the auspices of the IoH we organized a week-long ‘Article Accelerator’


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 programme (January 2018) to support students drafting their first publication. We also draw on the
 expertise of our Visiting Fellows/speakers to provide development opportunities for our PhD
 researchers, and have organized masterclasses led by Markku Peltonen (2014), John Brewer
 (2015); Tristram Hunt (2018) and Lucy Noakes (2020). Recent Northumbria History PhDs have
 obtained postdoctoral fellowships at the Institute of Historical Research, Ulster University, and
 Newcastle University, and full-time lectureships at Queen’s University Belfast, Durham University,
 the University of Sunderland, Liverpool John Moores University, and the University of Stirling. In
 this cycle, PhD candidates have published articles with leading journals such as German History,
 Women’s History Review, Contemporary British History, Twentieth Century British History and
 History & Memory as well as monographs with Edinburgh University Press, Boydell and Brewer
 and Palgrave. This success speaks to our commitment to preparing our students for life beyond
 the PhD.


 PhD students can apply for funding for archival research, conference attendance and event
 organisation through the History QR budget. Over £70,000 of QR has been spent supporting PGR
 activity during the cycle. PGRs have also secured external funding, for example from the Royal
 Historical Society (8 times in this cycle), the Society for the Study of Labour History (4 times), the
 Economic History Society (5 times), the British Association for American Studies (3 times), the
 British Association for Slavonic and East European Studies (twice), and the Society for the Study
 of French History. Foster was awarded the Gerda Henkel Scholarship by L’Historial de la Grande
 Guerre, Péronne in 2017; Neary was a funded participant in the 2017 Spring Academy at the
 Heidelberg Center for American Studies; and Robertson-Major was selected for the Wilson
 Center’s Summer Programme on Archival Research (2020). Two of our PhD candidates acted as
 PGR ‘ambassadors’ for the Economic History Society in this cycle. Our PhD students co-organised
 the IHR’s History Lab North East, and take a leading role in the multi-institutional Centre for
 Nineteenth Century Studies. They organise a public ‘Summer Speaker Series’ showcasing their
 research, which was first hosted at Newcastle’s Literary and Philosophical Society, and later at
 the city’s Mining Institute.


 All internally funded studentships are advertised in alignment with our research groups, and thus
 our research strategy. Our research students are supported to lead on activities within each group.
 PhD students have dedicated workspace in the Glenamara Centre, a postgraduate suite located
 close to staff offices and allowing access to a shared PhD-staff common room. Students can also
 access the Research Commons, a dedicated research space for PGRs and staff in the University
 Library. Student satisfaction is monitored through the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey
 (PRES) and the PGR Lead implements an action plan following each survey. PRES outcomes for
 the Unit in 2017 (the most recent survey for which we have History-specific figures) indicated high
 levels of satisfaction, with 98% of respondents endorsing the excellence of our supervision (Q1);


                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 98% agreeing that we make clear PhD progression (Q8); 95% believing that they have been
 equipped with appropriate research skills (Q12). Our overall performance (Q18 = 91%) placed the
 Unit well above the disciplinary average.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 Investment in our infrastructure and success in winning external funding enable us to conduct the
 research that underpins our publications, to host and be represented at international conferences,
 to build collaborations within and outside the academy, and to develop the careers of early career
 scholars. Along with new appointments to support research in History, the Unit has received
 infrastructural support to encourage interdisciplinary collaboration and outreach. In 2015 the
 University made a major strategic investment in the Department of Humanities with the
 establishment of the IoH, creating bespoke research space and facilities, including meeting rooms
 that are fully accessible for all users, high-spec hardware and software, microfilm readers, and
 microfilm collections relating to our research. These include the papers of the Women’s
 International League for Peace and Freedom, Students for a Democratic Society, the Aborigines
 Protection Society and the Black Panther Party. These collections have been essential in the
 writing of monographs and completion of PhD theses. The IoH offers desk space for Visiting
 Fellows who work collaboratively with our historians: in this cycle we have hosted Lynn Itagaki
 and Devin Fergus (University of Missouri), Markku Peltonen (University of Helsinki), Marinela
 Garcia (University of Alicante), Dominique Kalifa (University of Paris 1 – Pantheon Sorbonne), and
 Catherine Bishop (Macquarie University). Alongside this targeted investment, our research is well-
 served by the resources of the University Library. The University has invested over £650,000 in
 History specific resources since 2014, and its expenditure on multidisciplinary resources that
 benefit historians amounts to more than £5m. Major digital acquisitions this cycle include (but are
 not limited to) the Churchill Archive, the Shoah Foundation Visual History Archive, the Daily Mail
 Historical Archive, the Guardian/Observer Archive, African American Newspapers, the LGBT
 Magazine Archive, the Mass Observation Archive, and the ProQuest collection on Civil Rights and
 the Black Freedom Struggle. The city campus library also offers a dedicated, well-equipped
 Research Commons providing research collaboration spaces, quiet study areas, and breakout
 space for student and academic researchers.


 Our RCGI has grown from £215,237 in the last REF period to £872,028 between 2014 and 2020.
 As a growing team of historians we have worked in this cycle on developing the structures and
 culture that will help us to mentor our early career scholars to further successes in the next cycle.
 Research in History is overseen by Alston. She is co-Director of Research in the Department of
 Humanities (with Baxter, in English), and convenes the Department Research Committee, which
 includes PGR Leads, the Director of the IoH, the Department Research Funding Coordinator and


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Department Ethics Lead. All staff can apply to have research expenses covered from the History
 QR allocation, with a nominal £1000 p.a. per researcher. Researchers can also apply to central
 Faculty funds, which support impact work, pump-priming for funding applications, and research
 assistance. In Humanities we ring-fence a portion of our QR budget to support the objectives of
 the IoH. With these funds, the IoH provides annual funding opportunities for networking and project
 development, and a rolling call to support symposia and collaborative work. Projects must involve
 researchers in multiple disciplines.


 We plan applications for research funding across a two-year cycle, helping researchers to identify
 appropriate sources of funding, and managing the number and quality of submissions we make.
 This is evident in our applications to the Leverhulme Trust across this REF cycle. Since 2016 we
 have advertised externally for applicants to the Leverhulme ECR Fellowship scheme, and we run
 an internal selection process in which Research Directors select the strongest candidates across
 our Faculty. This rigorous process means we have won a Leverhulme ECR Fellowship in History
 in every year that we have applied. West’s Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (£90,000, May
 2018–April 2021) was the first to be awarded in the Unit, followed by Kosior’s (£75,000,
 September 2018-August 2021), and more recently Roddy’s (£90,983, September 2020-August
 2023). To maintain the quality of submissions we make to Leverhulme, we also run a selective
 process for Leverhulme Research Fellowship applications. This resulted in McConnel’s success
 with the project ‘“The Fighting Race”? Contested Images of Irish Soldiers in the First World War’
 (£47,003). Gottmann’s successful application to the UKRI Leadership Fellowship Scheme
 (£1.2m, 2020-2024) was supported by a university-wide selection process, intensive peer review
 and a mock interview. RIS run funding application workshops for BA/Leverhulme small grants,
 Leverhulme Fellowships, and AHRC Fellowships, and hold regular research funding clinics. They
 also run a selective training programme that helps researchers transition to larger scale
 applications (‘Next Generation of Large Award Holders’) and a programme focused on
 preparedness for fellowship applications (‘Fellowship Ready’). Parr, Williams and Aston were
 selected for participation in the former programme in successive cohorts, while O’Brien has
 attended the latter, and their participation has led to major applications to Leverhulme, Wellcome
 and the UKRI FLF scheme.


 All research funding applications are submitted to our Faculty Peer Review College and are
 scrutinised by two experienced reviewers. Faculty approval of an application for submission is
 contingent on the PI’s engagement with peer review comments. Here we are able to take
 advantage of the experience of colleagues who review and/or take part in assessment panels for
 national and international funding bodies, including the AHRC (Alston, Bueltmann, Gleeson,
 Laqua, Lawson and McConnel), UKRI (Alston, Laqua and McConnel); the Irish Research
 Council (Kelly, McConnel) the Research Council of Norway and the Portuguese national funding


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 agency (Laqua), the European Research Council (Laqua) and Humanities in the European
 Research Area (Alston).


 The support mechanisms described above have achieved noteworthy results since 2014,
 particularly in building the funding trajectories of colleagues in our Unit. Having been a Co-I on the
 AHRC ‘Locating the Hidden Diaspora’ project (completed 2013), Bueltmann secured an ESRC
 Standard Grant for ‘European, Ethnic and Expatriate: A Longitudinal Comparison of British and
 German Social Networking and Associational Formations in Modern-Day Asia' (£234,809, 2013–
 16). Cullinane held an AHRC ECR Leadership Fellowship in 2014–15 for ‘Memorial Communities
 and Presidential Legacy: Remembering Theodore Roosevelt’ (£96,301), and in 2016–17 he
 secured £53,843 in AHRC follow-on funding. Skelton was Co-I on a three-year (2017–20) AHRC-
 funded project, ‘Past Floods Matter’ (£35,809), and in 2020 won funding for a 24-month project on
 ‘Building Climate Resilience through Community, Landscape, and Cultural Heritage’, with partners
 at Glasgow, Liverpool and Historic England. Researchers in the unit have successfully targeted
 sources of funding beyond the research councils. Laqua was PI for a 2020 Anniversary Grant
 from the Society for Educational Studies, for the project ‘University Access and Student Life in the
 Aftermath of the Great War: Local, National and Transnational Dimensions of the Scheme for the
 Higher Education of Ex-Service Students (1918)’ (£9,963). Parr’s work on the anti-apartheid
 movement in Ireland has been supported by the Arts Council of Northern Ireland. We have had
 considerable success in securing library and visiting fellowships to further our research. Both Paul
 and Knight Lozano won prestigious Huntington Library Fellowships (in 2014 and 2015
 respectively). Laqua was a Senior Research Fellow at the Leibniz Institut für Europaïsche
 Geschichte in Mainz in 2014, and in 2020 was awarded a Simone Weil fellowship at the Ludwig-
 Maximillians-Universität in Munich. Andelic won funding from the Gerald Ford Foundation for
 research at the Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library in 2018, and a Kluge Fellowship at the Library
 of Congress in 2020.


 Researchers in the Unit have benefited from training on writing for and presenting to non-academic
 audiences. Both O’Brien and Aston were shortlisted for the AHRC-BBC Radio 3 New Generation
 Thinkers Programme. Their developing expertise and subsequent radio appearances has been
 an invaluable resource for the Unit as a whole. In 2014 we secured funding to participate in the
 first BA/AHRC-funded UK Festival of Humanities, running a programme of ten public events under
 the title ‘Eighteenth-Century Legacies: The Past in our Present’. The following year our
 Department was invited to coordinate a programme as a regional ‘hub’, and we have contributed
 to the Festival in each iteration since then. The ‘Being Human’ festival is a highlight of our research
 calendar: a designated individual coordinates our application and events, and works with
 colleagues to engage audiences with the big questions in our research.



                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration and Contribution to the Economy and Society:
 We believe firmly in the relevance of history to public life. We have long-standing partnerships with
 cultural and creative organisations in our region (the Tyneside Irish Centre, Newcastle’s Literary
 and Philosophical Society, the Mining Institute, and Tyne and Wear Archives and Museums) and
 with national and international organisations (the National Union of Students, the Cooperative
 Group, the Environment Agency, the Union of International Associations). Badger’s role as
 President of the Historical Association from 2017 to 2020 led to our hosting a re-launch of the
 Newcastle branch of the HA, with an event at Newcastle City Library featuring David Olusoga
 (recipient of an honorary doctorate from Northumbria University). A follow-up event in March 2019
 focused on the riots against South Shields’ Yemeni community in 1919. We also work closely with
 the WEA, and have hosted events (2017, 2018) and research projects in partnership with them.
 Our researchers can frequently be heard on TV and radio applying their historical knowledge to
 contemporary debates – whether O’Brien on the history of Notre Dame Cathedral, Parr on the
 Irish border, or Francis on developments in Nicaragua.


 Our four impact case studies, all of which are new since 2014, demonstrate the breadth and depth
 of our partnerships and collaboration. They range across our research groups, coming from
 Histories of Activism (Webster); Global and Transnational History (Bueltmann); American
 Studies (Ward) and Conflict and Society (Parr). However, all members of our team engage with
 partners outside the academy: current beneficiaries of our research include businesses, libraries
 and museums, government agencies and community groups.


 The 2014-20 REF cycle coincided with the centenary of the First World War. Given the expertise
 of researchers in our Conflict and Society research group, we have devoted substantial energy to
 engaging with communities interested in commemorating the war. A public lecture series
 organised by McConnel with the HLF-funded Tynemouth First World War Commemoration
 Project (featuring Professor Sir Hew Strachan and other high-profile speakers) led to further
 collaboration in the AHRC-funded project ‘Dominion Geordies in the First World War’. This
 mobilised ‘citizen historians’ in the UK, Australia, New Zealand, and Canada to research the lives
 of the 7,000 men and women of the North East who served in Dominion armies for a free online
 database. A follow-up project funded by the US Embassy in London researched North East
 soldiers who served in the US forces in 1917–18. Laqua’s funding from the AHRC and the Society
 for Educational Studies supported interconnected projects on ex-service student activism after the
 First World War, run in partnership with the WEA and the National Union of Students. These
 resulted in pop-up exhibitions, a policy workshop, presentations and performances. In 2018
 Alston, Laqua, McConnel, and Skelton partnered with HM Revenue & Customs in delivering a
 day of WW1 centenary CPD, with sessions ranging from the challenges of peace-making to the

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impact of war on the river Tyne. Alston collaborated with the Lit & Phil in two exhibitions
 showcasing books the library acquired during and after the war: the first, ‘Revolutionary Books’
 (2017), focused on books written at the time of the Russian revolutions, and the second (2019) on
 the Paris Peace Conference and the League of Nations. Beyond the First World War, Beorn is a
 consultant for the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, and has authored
 materials and facilitated workshops for the museum. The research underpinning Beorn’s
 monograph formed a case study for the Reserve Officer Training Corps’ Ethical Development
 Program. Lawson gave evidence to the Prime Minister’s Holocaust Commission in 2015 and was
 a member of the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation Working Group on Education between 2015
 and 2017; he also gave evidence to the Westminster Planning Enquiry on the proposed Holocaust
 Memorial in Victoria Gardens.


 The development of our strength in Environmental Humanities across this cycle has led to
 productive partnerships focusing on the rural and built environment. Kelly worked with the
 Northumberland Wildlife Trust on its National Lottery-funded Wildwood Project, contextualising
 the re-creation of an ancient conifer woodland in Kielder Forest Park. He also advised the
 Northumberland National Park Authority on its 2019 exhibition at The Sill: National Landscape
 Discovery Centre marking 70 years of UK national parks. Skelton’s research on historic flooding
 has involved partnering with the Environment Agency, United Utilities and Northumbrian Water,
 Newcastle and Gateshead Councils, Port of Tyne, and Cumbria County Council. Murphy has
 provided historical content for the HLF-funded ‘Revitalising Redesdale’ project, which engages
 audiences with the Rede Valley’s cultural and environmental heritage. The Histories of Activism
 group hosts the digital project Mapping Radical Tyneside, established by Hardwick, a
 collaboration between the history team, local labour historians and members of the public.
 Alongside his Leverhulme project on Black media architecture, West maintains a digital mapping
 project showcasing key sites in Black Chicago. Livsey partnered with a filmmaker to document
 histories of decolonisation and welfare through the Pepys housing estate in London: this film was
 shown on the estate and as part of the ‘Living with Buildings’ exhibition at the Wellcome Collection
 in London (2018 – 2019). Devienne was historical advisor on a primetime documentary about
 coastal leisure which aired on France3 in September 2020. She also contributed an episode to
 Franco-German TV channel Arte’s forthcoming ‘History in Objects’, focusing on the beach
 umbrella.


 Our expertise has helped museums, archives and arts organisations in our region and beyond to
 exploit and contextualise the collections they hold. Bueltmann’s advisory role with the National
 Museum of Scotland supports the ongoing redevelopment of the Museum’s Scotland galleries:
 their reconsideration of Scottish diaspora history was facilitated by funding she won from the Royal
 Society of Edinburgh. O’Brien collaborated with the Bowes Museum, which holds one of Britain’s


                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 richest collections of French art, on its 2017 exhibition ‘The Allure of Napoleon’ and through a
 collaborative doctoral studentship. Taylor advised Newcastle City Library on a public history
 project on Jewish communities in the North East. Ward’s research was drawn on by diverse arts
 and community organisations in the planning for the 2017’s Freedom City events. Parr’s
 directorship of the board of Belfast’s Etcetera Theatre Company, which encourages working class
 loyalist engagement in Arts programmes, is one of several partnerships he is involved with that
 aim to build community cohesion in Northern Ireland. Badger has served as the independent
 reviewer overseeing the release of FCO papers relating to former colonies.


 Our researchers help businesses, organisations and communities to think about how their past
 informs present and future activity. Webster’s expertise has been a major point of reference for
 the Co-op Group as it considered its future in the aftermath of the banking crisis, and he has also
 advised grass roots cooperatives and social enterprises. Laqua has enabled the NUS to engage
 more effectively with its history, through a joint series ‘Studies in the History of Students’ and the
 development of new content for the ‘Our History’ section of their website. From 2020 Laqua
 supervises a CDA with the NUS through the Northern Bridge Consortium. The Union of
 International Associations in Brussels is reflecting on its future activity through engagement with
 Laqua’s edited collection exploring its history. Bueltmann’s work on diasporic communities has
 informed debates on citizen’s rights: her brochure commissioned by the Friedrich-Ebert foundation
 was disseminated to politicians in Germany and the UK. Francis’s expert advice on the on-going
 crisis in Nicaragua has fed into articles by leader writers for The Guardian and The New Yorker,
 and informed a policy statement by the Mayor of Lewisham about Lewisham’s twinning with
 Matagalpa in Nicaragua. Anderson has led training sessions for diplomats on the history and
 politics of South Asia and its diaspora through the FCO Diplomatic Academy. He is historical
 advisor to the BBC Radio 4 series ‘£3 in my pocket’, exploring the history of the South Asian
 diaspora in Britain, and he co-curated the exhibition ‘Freedom and Fragmentation’, which toured
 to Leeds and Lahore. Elements of the exhibition now form part of a permanent display in the
 Imperial War Museum.


 Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base and our Discipline:
 Researchers in the Unit have also impacted on the sustainability of the discipline of History. Alston
 has been involved in national-level discussions on REF, TEF, and Open Access through her role
 in History UK since 2014. As President of the HA, Badger has worked to sustain History’s position
 in the school curriculum while advocating for a wider public commitment to rational enquiry and
 evidence-based argument, at a time when the appeal of alternative facts is powerful. Webster’s
 advisory role to the Assessment and Qualifications Alliance (AQA) resulted in his co-authoring of
 the AQA-approved A level textbook The British Empire, c 1857–1967. Members of the Unit have
 taken up senior leadership roles in learned societies: Ward was vice-chair (2015–16) and then


                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 chair (2016–19) of the British Association for American Studies, while Devienne, Street and West
 have all served on the BAAS Executive. Andelic is Chair of the US Presidential History Network.
 Twomey was a member of the Executive of the Association of Hispanists of Great Britain and
 Ireland (2013–18) and President of Women in Spanish and Portuguese Studies (2016–19). Laqua
 is Conference Secretary (and formerly International Secretary) for the Society for the Study of
 Labour History.


 Our leadership of our subject is mediated through six academic journals edited within our unit:
 these include French History (JWright) and Holocaust Studies (Lawson). Colleagues also serve
 on 12 other editorial boards. In 2019 Kelly was appointed to the editorial board of Past and
 Present. We have co-edited book series, notably Palgrave Studies in the History of Genocide
 (Lawson), the BAAS paperbacks series (Street), and the Ashgate Historical Keyboard Series
 (Smith). Editors use their expertise to demystify the publication and peer review process for ECRs
 and PGRs, informally and through PGR training workshops. Colleagues have peer-reviewed
 outputs for leading national and international scholarly journals (e.g. EHR, HJ, JBS, TCBH, & IHS)
 and publishers (OUP, CUP, MUP, LUP, & Palgrave Macmillan), and have served as external
 examiners for PhDs in the UK (King’s College London, Liverpool, Lancaster, Manchester, UEA,
 QUB, Sussex) and internationally (Aarhus & NUI Galway). Colleagues in our unit act as peer
 reviewers not only for UKRI but for research councils in Norway, Portugal, Ireland and Sweden.


 The quality of our work has been recognised by awards, including the Belmont University Country
 Music 2018 Book of the Year Award, and the Certificate of Merit for Excellence in Historical
 Recorded Sound Research from the Association of Historical Sound Recordings (Ward), the 2015
 Saltire Society Scottish Research Book of the Year award (Bueltmann), the Devon Book of the
 Year 2015 (Kelly), the 2014 Florida Book Award Gold Medal and the 2014 BAAS Arthur Miller
 Centre First Book Prize (Knight Lozano). Parr’s monograph was nominated for the RHS Whitfield
 Prize and the Ewart-Biggs Literary Prize, and was an Irish Times Book of the Year for 2017.
 Devienne was awarded the 2019 Doyce B Nunis Jr Award for the best demonstration of
 scholarship by a rising historian. Colleagues have also acted as panel members for prizes: Kelly
 is a judge on the Pol Roger/Duff Cooper Literary Prize for Poetry and Non-Fiction (five-year term
 from 2019).


 We have hosted and organised international conferences and symposia during the current cycle.
 Laqua coordinated the annual conference of the Social History Society at Northumbria in 2014.
 Street organised the BAAS annual conference (the most important American Studies conference
 in Europe, with 500 delegates) in 2015. In 2016 Twomey was the national organiser of the
 Association of Hispanists of Great Britain and Ireland conference. In 2017 and 2019 respectively,
 Devienne and Skelton were members of the Programme Committee for the 5-day European


                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Society of Environmental History Conference (in Zagreb, 2017, and Tallinn, 2019). Many
 colleagues participate in and lead international research networks: for example Aston established
 the REWomen (Researching Women of Management and Enterprise) network, a partnership
 between Macquarie University and Northumbria, and Laqua was a partner in the project ‘The
 Transnational Dynamics of Social Reform’, funded by the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific
 Research (NWO). Members of the Unit have delivered invited lectures in national and international
 venues, including Atlanta and Athens (Georgia), Avignon, Blacksburg (Virginia), Brussels,
 Copenhagen, Freiburg, Geneva, Halifax (Nova Scotia), Konstanz, Lisbon, Lubbock (Texas), Paris,
 Olomouc, Rouen, Semarang, Tubingen, Tbilisi, and Zurich. These contributions to organising and
 speaking at international events testify to the continuing global impact of our research.




                                                                                             Page 21
