Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Nottingham


 Unit of Assessment: Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism (UoA24)


 Section 1: Unit Context and Structure, research and impact strategy


 (1a) Context and structure


 The University of Nottingham (UoN) has a historically outstanding and multidisciplinary
 background in exercise, nutrition, metabolism and skeletal muscle research, and this has been
 enhanced by new academic appointments and large-scale investment in Sports and Exercise
 infrastructure since REF2014. We are therefore returning in UoA24 for the first time. UoN
 academics returning in this unit of assessment (henceforth referred to as the ‘UoA24 Group’) are
 embedded within the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, drawing on its state-of-the-art
 facilities to research human health and performance. The return comprises research priorities in
 musculoskeletal health in ageing and well-being, underpinned by institutional, cross-research
 council and NHS investments in this area of research excellence. This includes the MRC Versus
 Arthritis Centre for Musculoskeletal Ageing Research, a £2M collaborative venture between
 the Universities of Birmingham and Nottingham established in 2012, and renewed for a further 5
 years in 2017; the Musculoskeletal Disease theme of the NIHR Nottingham Biomedical
 Research Centre (BRC) established in 2017 and supported by £4M of a £23.5M award; the
 Centre for Sport, Exercise and Osteoarthritis Research Versus Arthritis, a £2M partnership
 across the Universities of Bath, Leeds, Loughborough, Nottingham, Oxford and Southampton
 (led by Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust), which was founded in 2013 and renewed in
 2018; the Sir Peter Mansfield Imaging Centre (SPMIC) supported by £7.7M investment in
 2014 from a MRC-led Clinical Research Capabilities and Technologies Initiative in Imaging to
 fund novel equipment and capabilities to advance new areas in clinical research. This imaging
 initiative has stimulated new innovative research in architectural, cardiovascular and metabolic
 adaptation in human ageing, health and disease under controlled physiological conditions.


 The UoA24 Group is a strategic organisational coupling of academics in the Schools of Life
 Sciences (SoLS) and Medicine (SoM), uniting researchers in physiological/exercise
 (cardiovascular, metabolic, functional and motor), nutritional (appetite, energy balance and
 obesity), psychological (behaviour and motivation) and physical (MRI) sciences; a heterogeneity
 which fosters a multidisciplinary environment underpinned by shared postgraduate students and
 grant capture. Our research strategy focuses on these actions and areas of strength,
 building on ongoing successes, whilst also laying foundations for further development in
 relevant areas of health- and disease-related research in the future. Informed by analysis
 and reflection and in line with UoN Global Strategy, we aim to further capitalise upon our position
 and cement UoN as a world-leader in Sport and Exercise Science research by:



                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        Strengthening and enriching core activities of research and training in health-related
         exercise, nutrition, metabolism and musculoskeletal science, and its progression to
         disease, as part of the UoN multidisciplinary Health and Wellbeing Global Research
         Theme.
        Engaging our infrastructure and state-of-art research platforms (section 3b) to develop
         outstanding researchers, and producing and effectively sharing, high-quality research in
         these core scientific areas.
        Focusing research funding applications and investment in our research strengths, and
         the technology platforms that underpin our science.
        Focusing on enhancing quality by key appointments (at all career stages) and
         collaborations across our multidisciplinary research environment.
        Differentiating UoN on the basis of outstanding postgraduate student research
         experience.


 The following demonstrates our progression within these strategic areas during the
 assessment period:
 (i) We established interdisciplinary research structures, clustered around four themes of
 research excellence. a) Cardiovascular and Respiratory Physiology; b) Human Nutrition,
 Obesity and Body Composition; c) Regulation of Muscle Function, Size and Metabolism; and d)
 Behaviour Modification. These four themes focus on specific topics that were predominant in the
 assessment period (identified in the centre of Figure 1), with skeletal muscle, exercise,
 metabolism and nutrition research at the forefront.




 Figure 1 UOA24 Return Context and Structure




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (ii) We made strategic high-quality appointments, at all career stages. A new BSc in Sport
 and Exercise Science has allowed us to attract and fund high quality academic appointments,
 including significant investment in young researchers. We enhanced and extended existing
 expertise in metabolism, MRI, molecular biology, nutrition, physiology, and psychology in the
 context of exercise, health and disease, which facilitated several of our PhD students to take up
 post-doctoral positions within the UoA24 Group (section 2b). Moreover, six ‘rising star’ academic
 appointments across disciplines were made, which embraced our research themes focused on
 human volunteer research: Phillips (2015, pathophysiology in ageing and chronic disease and
 interventions to mitigate functional consequences); Wilkinson (2016, development of minimally
 invasive approaches to monitor skeletal muscle metabolism); Blockley (2018, assessment of in
 vivo human brain metabolic function using MRI); Brook (2018, application of stable isotope
 tracers to quantify human metabolism); Hancox (2018, maintenance and promotion of health-
 related behaviour and well-being); Piasecki (2018, neuromuscular decline in ageing and
 disease). A strategic Associate Professor appointment in human nutrition (Siervo, 2019) further
 increased critical mass. Additionally, four colleagues were awarded personal chairs (Atherton,
 2016; Smith, 2017; Szewczyk, 2017 and Tsintzas, 2020), demonstrating retention and traction
 in areas of strength. We have balance across staffing levels ensuring leadership and
 sustainability (section 2a).


 (iii) We delivered excellent multidisciplinary post-graduate training activity to meet skills
 gaps. For instance, boundaries between disciplines (such as physics and biology) were crossed
 through co-supervised PhD studentships, which were key to attracting funding to establish our
 centres of excellence. Post-graduate training incorporated multiple specialist centre-specific
 training initiatives for clinical and non-clinical scientists (e.g. ageing research specific research
 opportunities in the MRC/Versus Arthritis Centre for Musculoskeletal Ageing Research).
 Furthermore, overarching skills training and networking opportunities were supported by the
 Centre for Doctoral Training in Musculoskeletal Health and Pain in Ageing and Wellbeing across
 our four centres of musculoskeletal research excellence. This strategy-specific approach was
 complemented by specific UoN Research Academy training (section 2b).


 (iv) Our structure, straddling across schools and across institutional centres of
 excellence, facilitated significant and productive collaboration beyond our institutional
 boundary; reflected by over 91% of our scholarly output including inter-institutional
 collaborations (section 4a).


 (v) We secured external research funding awards totalling £7.35M (section 3a), and
 research across areas of strength were underpinned by the establishment and integration
 of novel, large-scale technology platforms focussed on the human condition; particularly
 magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and stable isotope tracer-based quantification of substrate
 metabolism (section 3b).



                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (vi) All 18 academics, across career stages, produced and shared high-quality research
 outputs. We collectively published 277 peer-reviewed journal articles. Over 80% of our
 publications were in top-quartile journals and over 55% were in the top 10% by field-normalised
 SCImago Journal Rank.


 In accordance with UoN Policy (REF5a), all researchers are committed to open research. All
 research outputs were made available in an open access form, either Gold open access using
 block funding (where appropriate) or via the UoN institutional repository (RIS). Our researchers
 also supported open science by publishing findings early on key preprints servers, e.g. bioRxiv
 (Atherton and Siervo).


 (1b) Research and impact


 The UoA24 Group has delivered against the 5 aims of our Institutional Knowledge Exchange
 Strategic Delivery Plan (REF5a).


 Our impact case studies were developed, selected in open competition and advanced further
 with support of a team of Faculty impact officers. This also identified a pipeline of impact for the
 future, e.g. Phillips - higher risk of Diabetes in Asian populations, Siervo – dietary nitrate intake
 in Tanzanians.


 The UoA24 Group has a broad portfolio of impacts typified by:
      Aiding and contributing to government expert advisory panels to affect policy
       change e.g. membership of the Scientific Advisory Committee for Nutrition; presenting
       evidence at the 2019 House of Lords Science and Technology Committee
       inquiry into Ageing; chairmanship of the Carbohydrates Working Group that authored the
       report “Carbohydrates and Health” published in 2015 [REF3 ICS1].
      Participating in expert think-tanks e.g. “Influencing the Trajectories of Ageing”, The
       Academy of Medical Sciences (2016).
      Creating, developing and commercialising intellectual property e.g. USA patent
       number US9662344B2 – carnitine retention [REF3 ICS2].
      Conducting notable public outreach e.g. the Physiological Society report “Growing
       Older, Better” launched in the Houses of Parliament 2019; SpaceX-16 research
       highlighted by BBC Breakfast News, 2018; BBC “Trust Me I’m a Doctor”, 2016; BBC “The
       Truth About Getting Fit”, 2018.
      Members of the UoA24 Group hosting and delivering educational events, including both
       single and multi-day annual events for primary and secondary school students. Widening
       participation activities included sessions enhanced by external outreach funding, awarded
       to deliver activities across local primary schools annually (e.g. Physiological Society
       “Mighty Muscles” and “Eating for Energy”).


                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

      Community outreach efforts included talks at individual society events, particularly those
       with members to whom our research directly relates (e.g., U3A, Rotary, WI). Members of
       the UoA24 Group also actively contributed to larger-scale events such as the Physiological
       Society Presidents Lecture Day at the Royal Institution, London 2019, The Big Bang Fair
       and UoN’s ‘Wonder’ (the latter two having reach of ~2,000 and 5,000 visitors,
       respectively).
      The UoA24 Group hosted research celebration events for members of the local
       community and past research participants, raising research awareness and presenting
       key findings. These activities also provided our post-graduate (PGR) students
       opportunities to participate in outreach and enhance presenting skills to diverse
       audiences.
      Members of the UoA24 Group played a central role in organising the ‘International
       Biomedical Basis of Elite Performance’ conference of the Physiological Society in
       2012 and 2016, the latter being hosted at UoN.


 (1c) Future development from 2020


 Our overarching objective is to continue to create a world-class multidisciplinary translational
 research environment and infrastructure that will further connect our institutional Schools and
 research centres of excellence, and NHS Trusts (section 1a). It will cross institutional
 boundaries, involving our current and new partners in the UK and beyond (section 4a). Our
 strategic vision is to increase capacity and standing in areas of historical research excellence
 (exercise, nutrition, metabolism and skeletal muscle research in the context of health and
 disease), while committing significant investment in young researchers in areas of new strategic
 importance to foster sustainability and continued growth in our multidisciplinary research.
 Specifically, these important emerging areas, that dovetail with existing strengths in metabolism
 and nutrition, include dynamic proteomics and metabolomics (Wilkinson), imaging
 (Blockley, brain; Piasecki, neuromuscular), epidemiological nutrition (Siervo) and behaviour
 modification (Hancox). Additionally, as the BSc Sport and Exercise Science develops further,
 we will integrate biomechanics into existing research in the UoA24 Group, which will add to our
 multidisciplinarity and translates well from our existing themes. We aim also to increase
 interactions and outputs in exercise, nutrition, physiological and adherence health research with
 clinical researchers e.g. from across the musculoskeletal, gastrointestinal, and respiratory
 disease themes of our BRC and local NHS Trusts.


 We will actively support our Early-Career Researchers (ECR) by managing teaching loads and
 allocating flexible research funds. This will include School start-up funding of £10,000-20,000 per
 person and matched PhD funding, prioritisation of pump-priming fund allocation and PhD
 studentships from our centres of excellence, provision of independent laboratory space, and
 access to state-of-art research platforms (section 3b) at minimal/no cost.


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 While research income from industry, commerce and public corporations has been healthy in the
 current REF period (totalling £1.417M; section 3a), we will strive to maximise the
 commercialisation of our future research in the context of the global financial challenge. We will
 exploit our strong links with the pharmaceutical and nutrition industries, and our previous
 experience of generating and commercialising IP (section 4c and REF3).


 We will further the dissemination of research findings, maximise the visibility of our research and
 promote national and international networking by presenting at national and international
 meetings. Synergies with other centres of excellence, key policy influencers and industry will
 also be exploited to determine routes to translation of our primary findings. Research and impact
 activities will increase around the themes and research topics depicted in Figure 1, under the
 provenance of the overarching institutional, cross-research council and NHS structures. We will
 build on existing research infrastructure through further capital investment bids, such as the
 BBSRC ALERT. Researchers across a variety of disciplines will continue to benefit not only from
 the new multidisciplinary knowledge produced across our research themes, but also by
 accessing constantly evolving world-leading technical facilities, well-defined volunteer cohorts
 and archived tissue banks that UoN and our collaborators have access to.


 We will continue to publish in high impact physiology/metabolism (J Physiology, AJP journals),
 nutrition (AJCN, Clinical Nutrition) and exercise (MSSE, SJMSS) peer-reviewed journals of direct
 relevance to UoA24. Additionally, we will target broader scope basic science journals (such as
 Cell/Nature Metabolism) and clinical journals (e.g. Annals of Surgery and Thorax) to increase
 impact of our physiological research to wider health research agenda.


 (1d) Mechanisms to establish, deliver and review research strategy


 All senior researchers in the UoA24 Group occupy management roles in the centres of
 excellence and platforms underpinning this return: MRC/Versus Arthritis Centre for
 Musculoskeletal Ageing Research (Deputy Director – Greenhaff, Management Board -
 Atherton, Macdonald, Phillips); NIHR Nottingham Biomedical Research Centre
 (Gastroenterology theme Deputy Director – Macdonald, Musculoskeletal theme Deputy Director
 – Greenhaff); Centre for Sport, Exercise and Osteoarthritis Versus Arthritis (Deputy Director –
 Greenhaff); Sir Peter Mansfield Imaging Centre (Science Committee chair – Macdonald,
 Science Committee member and musculoskeletal theme lead – Greenhaff); Stable Isotope
 Mass Spectrometry Facility (Manager – Smith). This ensures effective mechanisms to establish,
 deliver and review research strategy, including succession planning, integrity and ethics. In
 addition to these leadership duties, all members bring complementary scientific expertise and
 actively contribute to monthly site-specific strategy meetings and quarterly meetings of the whole
 UoA24 Group. Additional ad hoc meetings take place to respond to research strategy and
 funding calls in a coordinated and collaborative fashion.

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 All our research is subject to rigorous standards. UoN’s Code of Research Conduct and
 Research Ethics (REF5a) provides a comprehensive framework for research conduct and
 governance. Research Ethics is fundamentally linked with integrity, and approval from an
 institutional Ethics Committee is mandatory for all healthy human volunteer research, with
 studies involving patients and/or radiation being reviewed by the Health Research Authority and
 National Research Ethics Services. UoA24 Group members (Phillips, Tsintzas) have
 leadership positions in the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences Ethics Committee, steering
 ethics strategy and approval processes, and advising the UoA24 Group on Ethics matters.
 Researchers conducting in vivo pre-clinical studies aim to Reduce, Refine and Replace (3Rs)
 the use of animals and their published results conform to ARRIVE guidelines.


 UoN is a signatory of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, and research integrity is
 central to staff induction processes and PhD programmes. The Research Academy provides
 core researcher training for PGRs and ECRs, including mandatory research integrity training,
 (REF5a). Research governance is further built into local doctoral training through a bespoke N-
 Trans programme for clinical-translational research, covering essential research skills and
 including a series of Research Governance modules: use of humans and animals in biomedical
 research; embedding the 3Rs in Research; exploring ethics in research; good clinical practice
 training; Patient and Participant Involvement in research; research data management; and
 Research Integrity. Data Protection training is compulsory, with staff completion monitored. UoN
 has a Code of Practice on Handling Allegations of Research Misconduct in line with UKRIO and
 UUK recommendations.


 Annual reports on research ethics and integrity are submitted by Schools and Faculties to the
 UoN Research Integrity Manager.
 Section 2: People


 (2a) Staffing strategy:
 Balanced distribution of staff across senior and junior academic levels (Table 1) promotes
 stability in addition to ensuring succession planning and sustainability.
 Table 1 Distribution of academic levels:

  HESA contract               Headcount     Individuals
  level
  F1                          6             Atherton, Greenhaff, Macdonald, Smith, Szewczyk,
                                            Tsintzas
  I0                          5             Billeter-Clark, Phillips, Taylor, Siervo, Constantin-
                                            Teodosiu
  J0                          7             Blockley, Cole, Hancox, Piasecki, Wilkinson, Brook,
                                            Simpson


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Promotions over the period reflect increased research traction; Atherton, Smith, Szewczyk and
 Tsintzas were promoted to Chair positions, and Phillips to Associate Professor. Strategic
 appointments strengthened our junior faculty in both core and new areas (section 1a). These
 strategic investments in academic staffing have been bolstered by research support and pump-
 priming funds from our Schools and research centres of excellence, and access to skilled
 technical support staff who underpin research endeavour on both medical school sites (section
 3). This strategy fosters new research innovation and supports progression of next generation
 research leaders. Succession planning is also supported by a University Research Leaders
 Programme that promotes the strategic and inspirational research leadership skills of 15-20
 selected UoN academics per annum (attended by Atherton and Hancox).


 Quality training and development at all career stages is reflected in internal appointments from
 PGR to Postdoctoral Research Assistants (PDRA; e.g. Crossland and Bass) and from PDRA to
 academic staff (e.g. Phillips and Brook were appointed to academic positions in open
 competition, having previously completed PhDs with our grouping). Similarly, Blockley returned
 to Nottingham in 2019 having completed his PhD in the SPMIC in 2007. Strategies contributing
 to our success in staff development are outlined below.


 All staff, including PDRAs and ECRs, regardless of contract type and duration, benefit from
 UoN’s staff policies, practices and professional development opportunities (REF5a). All undergo
 professional development and performance review in the form of Appraisal and Development
 Conversations (ADC). This process monitors progress and supports areas of professional
 development and mentoring towards goals beyond fixed-term contracts. ADC, crucially, is not
 focused around performance-related pay, but provides a framework encouraging regular
 discussion across the year, concluding with an annual review linking University goals and
 individual objectives, and providing focus for discussions around staff development, wellbeing,
 workload, and work-life balance. Decoupling development discussion from pay award allows our
 colleagues to be ambitious in discussing their research and forward-looking objectives, and
 avoids short-termism in individual research strategy. Reward is a separate scheme and financial
 reward can be given to both individuals and teams, and is graduated to reflect the sustainment
 and significance of colleagues’ achievements. Excellence in research, impact, or external
 engagement are rewarded through this route.


 PDRAs are central to our environment and research outcomes, and to PGR support and
 training. Historically, they have been funded by external grants that allow fixed periods of training
 and research productivity before moving on in career progression. Our 18 PDRAs were funded
 through UKRI (e.g. BBSRC, MRC), charities (e.g. Dunhill Medical Trust, Diabetes UK), NIHR
 (Nottingham BRC), industry partnerships (e.g. Abbott Nutrition, Fresenius-Kabi,
 GlaxoSmithKline) and the Ministry of Defence (MoD). Of these, 4 progressed into PDRA
 positions at other HEIs, 1 into industry, 1 into NHS research management, and 5 took up
 university lectureship posts (3 at UoN). We had 6 PDRAs in post on the census date, 2 of whom

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have been retained for a decade or more because of their exceptional skills (Constantin and
 Crossland). PDRAs are supported to attend and present at conferences (typically 1-2 per year
 each) and are awarded costs to cover conference travel.


 We have strong ECRs within the UoA24 Group (Brook, Hancox, Piasecki). Brook gained
 independent fellowship funding (ESPEN Fellowship 2019) as a result of our supportive
 environment. Mentorship comes in the form of School-level mentorship schemes, and the ADC
 scheme, which both take place with experienced senior staff. Grant writing schemes are
 provided in SoLS and SoM, and peer review of ECR grant applications by senior staff is
 mandatory. The success of our approaches and mechanisms to support and develop ECRs is
 evidenced by their career progress and promotions as described above.


 The Research Academy training and development programme empowers PDRA and ECR staff
 to develop the skills required in their research and future careers through training courses,
 placements, public engagement opportunities and activities for part-time and distance
 learning. Flexibility to work with different UoA24 Group PIs is encouraged to enhance staff
 development.


 Specialist technical research staff: UoN is a sector leader in recruiting, developing, supporting
 and retaining world-class technicians whose work strengthens our research ecosystem and the
 delivery of our research (REF5a). Technical colleagues’ development is supported through the
 Technician Network and creation of a Technical Skills and Conference Fund, enabling technical
 colleagues to apply for dedicated funding to facilitate attendance at appropriate courses and
 conferences for professional development.


 (2b) Postgraduate research students (PGRs)


 Over the census period, 42 PGRs associated with the UoA24 Group graduated (equivalent to 25
 by supervision share; all students have two or more supervisors, and co-supervision can be with
 those from different units). All were PhDs, with no research-based professional doctorates. As of
 the census end date, 35 PhD students were registered with a primary supervisor from the
 UoA24 Group, reflecting strategic growth (section 1c). Major financial support for these PGRs
 came from our centres of excellence (section 1a; particularly the MRC Versus Arthritis Centre for
 Musculoskeletal Ageing Research, which currently supports 8 PhD studentships).


 Our research strategy focuses on research excellence in recruitment of PGR students.
 Complementing our recruitment of PGR home students (e.g. through UKRI initiatives), over the
 census period we successfully secured 4 Vice-Chancellor's International Scholarships for
 Research Excellence. This competitive scholarship scheme recognises and rewards outstanding
 international students who apply to study a PhD at UoN and has allowed us to competitively
 recruit PhD students from China, Iran, India and Saudi Arabia. We also attracted international

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PhD students funded by scholarships from their home government (e.g. Nigeria, Taiwan and
 Saudi Arabia), and have an exchange programme for PDRA and PGR students with Japan (led
 by Atherton and Philips).


 Commitment to PGR development is evidenced through the numerous opportunities we provide
 including: the opportunity to gain N-trans accreditation; a dedicated Medicine and Health
 Sciences Graduate Centre (which forms part of the Research Academy); a comprehensive multi-
 domain researcher development programme (including online learning, face-to-face courses and
 public engagement opportunities) based on the RCUK joint skills statement; and a wide range of
 courses (from practical IT to interpersonal skills) run by the Research Academy which can be
 tailored to the students’ needs in order to meet compulsory training requirements (each student
 completes 120 credits of PGR training throughout their programme). Furthermore, MRC/Versus
 Arthritis Centre for Musculoskeletal Ageing Research students access PGR mentorship, training
 and development led by academics from both Birmingham and Nottingham Universities.


 PGRs, like research staff, have access to all research facilities across our sites, and have their
 own desk space and computer away from the laboratory. PGRs benefit greatly from specialist
 centre-specific training directives and initiatives for clinical and non-clinical scientists led by
 Phillips. Topics include: health and safety; research integrity and legislation (e.g., HTA, ICH-
 GCP); research design; PPI; data analysis and dissemination; research technologies and
 techniques. Furthermore, PGRs have the opportunity to present to diverse audiences (via
 internal presentations, public and educational outreach and scientific presentations at national/
 international conferences to achieve public and scientific impact), with these activities forming a
 compulsory part of the PGR training programme. All PDRAs and PGRs are offered possibilities
 to work in collaborator laboratories locally and internationally (e.g. Crossland spent a month at
 the University of Jyvaskyla and Chivaka spent 2 months at the University of Copenhagen, both
 working on muscle-related research projects). MRC/Versus Arthritis Centre for Musculoskeletal
 Ageing Research students are provided with funding to spend up to 6 months training in
 industry, or at a partner institution, in areas complementary to their research, and we host an
 iCASE studentship in the MRC-IMPACT doctoral training partnership.


 Centre-specific endeavour is complemented by overarching skills training and networking
 opportunities across our four centres of musculoskeletal research excellence, supported by the
 Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) in Musculoskeletal Health and Pain in Ageing and Wellbeing.
 This CDT is a combined initiative with leadership from academic members of our 4 independent
 centres of MSK research excellence. Collectively, this demonstrates a major commitment to
 ensuring that each PGR student gains experience in the skills needed for a career in research.


 Interaction between PGR students across all stages of training is actively encouraged (e.g. via
 student seminars and journal clubs). Each student has a minimum of 10 documented formal
 supervisory mentorship meetings each year, with attendance and goal-setting monitored at the

                                                                                                  Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 school level, supported by our “PGR-Web” IT platform. Meetings provide an opportunity for
 discussion about issues relating to the PGR project per se and any pastoral issues or concerns,
 and ensures robust PGR mentorship. All PGRs within their final year are encouraged to
 contribute to teaching activity, such as participating in undergraduate practical demonstrations,
 which is formalised through the student monitoring system.


 We take PGR health and wellbeing seriously and encourage students to speak to supervisors
 (or PGR academic leads) about any mental or physical health issues, so that appropriate
 supportive steps can be taken. During the Covid pandemic this has included diarised online
 meetings. PGRs have their own representatives on School committees to voice issues and a
 formal UoN student support service which signposts services for numerous aspects of student
 concern, e.g. mental wellbeing, financial advice and careers guidance.


 We underwrite learned society membership costs for all PGR students; in particular the
 Physiological Society, European Congress for Sports Science and the British Mass
 Spectrometry Society. This affords PGRs opportunities to apply for additional travel
 funds/awards, and in doing so, develops external funding application skills. Attendance at
 research meetings has significantly enhanced PGR training and resulted in a number of
 prestigious young investigator awards at international conferences. Some examples include:
    Christopher J Gaffney - Universitas 21 Global Ingenuity Challenge winner 2014.
    Chris Shannon - European College of Sports Science Annual Meeting 2014 Young
     Investigator Award (Equal 5th place oral presentation).
    Andrew Hale - European College of Sports Science Annual Meeting 2017 Young
     Investigator Award (4th place oral presentation).
    Joseph Bass - European College of Sports Science Annual Meeting 2017 Young
     Investigator Award (Equal 5th place oral presentation).
    Matthew Brook - Journal of Physiology Early Investigator Prize 2017. American
     Physiological Society select award 2017.
    Jessica Cegielski, Colleen Deane, Joseph Bass - Awarded organisation of the annual
     2017 Young Life Scientists' symposium (Frontiers in Musculoskeletal Health, Ageing and
     Disease).
    Nima Gharahdaghi; International Sarcopenia, Cachexia and Muscle Wasting Conference
     2017 (1st Place poster presentation).
    Natalie Shur; European Society for Enteral and Parenteral Nutrition 2017 Fellowship.


 (2c) Equality & Diversity


 UoN has led the development and implementation of major national initiatives that ensure
 researchers (staff and PGRs from recruitment to retirement) are supported by, and benefit from,




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 best practice in equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI). It has also ensured that construction of its
 REF 2021 submission addresses EDI in accordance with the institutional code of practice.


 At a local level, returning researchers are members of the Faculty of Medicine and Health
 Sciences EDI group, which includes EDI Directors from SoLS and SoM. Its role is to embed EDI
 in all aspects of Faculty work; promote good practice and identify areas for development;
 contribute to Faculty EDI plans. Using appropriate data, it monitors all aspects of EDI, e.g.
 auditing progress, celebrating success and recommending priorities for development. The
 UoA24 Group’s REF coordinators (Greenhaff and Atherton) underwent formal training in EDI,
 while all academic staff in our UoA undertook on-line EDI training. Allocation of REF outputs was
 determined by the coordinators, both of whom attended workshops on unconscious bias.


 Improving equality in health and wellbeing: In our research we embrace recruitment of
 minority ethnic groups and both sexes onto clinical trials and we actively research into issues
 pertaining to ethnicity and social health risks both in the UK and internationally. For instance, we
 have collaborative research in the UK (Phillips, higher risk of Diabetes in Asian groups), in India
 (Simpson, addressing fatty liver disease via lifestyle interventions) and in Malaysia and
 Tanzania (Siervo, Dietary Nitrate intake and vascular health).


 Embedding key charters: Both SoLS and SoM hold Athena SWAN Silver awards, recognising
 work and progress in promoting gender equality. We also promote and uphold UoN’s position as
 a signatory of the ECU Race Equality Charter and Stonewall Diversity Champion. UoN is a
 registered Disability Confident employer, and signatory to the Working Forward Pledge. The
 UoA24 Group follows rigorous recruitment and promotions processes, with embedded values of
 EDI, and there are no barriers to inclusion for protected characteristic groups. Our job
 advertisements overtly encourage applications from people with protected and underrepresented
 characteristics, and aim to attract diverse applicants by explicitly advertising inclusion policies.
 Selection processes are transparent and objective, both at shortlisting and interview stages, to
 minimise unconscious bias, and all interview panel members undertake EDI training. Age
 distribution of existing UoA24 Group members is balanced: 26-35 years (22%), 36-45 years
 (17%), 46-55 years (33%), 56-65 years (17%) and >66 years (11%). However, it is
 acknowledged that the gender balance (22% female/78% male) within the Group is skewed.
 One-third of the new academic appointments in this REF census period were allocated to
 excellent female researchers and further efforts will be made to address this in future.


 Section 3: Income, Infrastructure and facilities


 Our successes in research outputs and impact are underpinned by a strongly and diversely
 funded research programme world-leading research facilities and an excellent infrastructure
 (detailed below).



                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (3a) Research income


 Research income awarded over the census period was £7.35M (REF4B). The breadth of
 funders and quantity of income reflects the overall quality and broad-based nature of this
 research grouping. We secured competitive research income through establishing MRC, NIHR
 and Versus Arthritis research centres of excellence, and project-level initiatives from a wide
 array of grant and contract funders. The major share of total research income was from UK
 Research Councils (40%), with further funding from UK based charities (16%); overseas
 industry, commerce and public corporations (e.g. GlaxoSmithKline, Abbott Nutrition, Fresenius-
 Kabi, Novartis; 18%); UK government, local authorities, health and hospital authorities (13%,
 including NIHR); the European Government (10%); UK industry, commerce and public
 corporations (1.5%). Furthermore, in-kind contributions of £1.0M were secured from the UK
 Space Agency for European Space Agency (ESA) bed-rest research. These collectively illustrate
 the research traction within the UoA24 Group and the diversity of funding acquisition, which
 mirrors the diverse portfolio of research income seen at an institutional level (REF5a).


 (3b) Infrastructure and Facilities


 Research outputs and impact across UoN are enabled by a long-term investment in estate,
 facilities and infrastructure (REF5a), as well pump-priming of research priority areas (£135,291
 over the census period to members returning in UoA24). Advances in non-invasive techniques
 (such as MRI), combined state-of-art miniaturised dynamic flux measurements and ‘omics
 technologies, now allow us to perform comprehensive and integrated mechanistic studies in
 humans. We perceive the human to be the pre-eminent model to investigate human health,
 ageing and disease. To this end, advanced facilities were established for human nutrition,
 metabolism and physiological investigation on UoN Nottingham and Derby Medical School sites.
 This facilitated substantive UoN and NHS Trust collaborations within the UoA24 Group (section
 4a). We promote “freedom of movement” and open exchange of techniques and infrastructure
 across our sites. We hold bi-monthly cross-site journal club that includes staff and PGRs, and
 discussion forum meetings to discuss research plans, strategy, and collaboration requests
 between researchers, with agreements being made around cost sharing for use of equipment
 and techniques. Additionally, pump-priming funds are available to ECRs via our research
 Centres, and funds (matched by School funding) are available to encourage PGRs and ECRs to
 travel and work at collaborator sites, which has culminated in 91% of our scholarly output
 involving collaborators external to UoN (section 4a).


 Below is an overview of our general capacity and capabilities, in addition to the flagship facilities
 and specialist expertise within the UoA24 Group.


 Flagship: Human Physiology Units



                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Bespoke human physiology laboratories were established in Nottingham and Derby Medical
 School sites, which are staffed by skilled human studies technicians, research nurses and
 medical doctors who work side-by-side with PIs, PDRAs and PhD students. Staff are maintained
 as part of the core infrastructure of the UoA24 Group to ensure skills, know-how and techniques
 are retained. This provides the capability to conduct detailed volunteer screening, plus acute and
 chronic studies (with nutritional, exercise, drug and hormone interventions), in tandem with
 detailed physiological assessments. These assessments include quantification of whole-body,
 limb and muscle metabolism under resting, and exercise conditions, using techniques such as
 the euglycaemic, hyperinsulinaemic clamp; conchotome muscle biopsy, needle biopsy and
 micro-biopsy methods; stable isotope tracer infusions. Capabilities also encompass performing
 human limb and bed-rest immobilisation studies; endurance and resistance exercise training
 studies; specific motor control and postural balance training. These are dovetailed with our
 ability to perform comprehensive and novel biochemical and molecular assessments of
 biological samples to provide new and impactful research insight. Both Human Physiology units
 are overseen by a Unit Manager and a Clinical Director who meet monthly with PIs to discuss
 facility requirements, clinical governance issues and grant submissions.


 Flagship: Stable isotope mass spectrometry facility
 Our cutting-edge Stable Isotope Mass Spectrometry (SIMS) facility houses 4 gas
 chromatography mass spectrometers (for targeted substrate profiling; providing both quantitative
 and enrichment analyses of stable isotopes), 2 GC-pyrolysis-isotope ratio mass spectrometers
 (for deuterium analysis), a GC-combustion-IRMS (for 13C and 15N analyses), and a highly
 sensitive GC-MS-MS (for low level stable isotope enrichment and concentration measurements).
 Two breath gas continuous flow systems are available for substrate oxidation studies, and two
 high temperature Elemental Analysers – coupled to IRMS, for the analysis of deuterium, 13C, 15N
 and 18O isotopes. Our state-of-the-art Q-Exactiv Orbitrap liquid chromatography-high resolution
 MS can perform targeted and untargeted metabolomics, proteomics (protein identification and
 quantitation) and individual protein synthesis measures when coupled with D2O labelling. The
 facility is dedicated for the use of UoA24 Group members and collaborators, and provides
 access to an unparalleled array of MS instrumentation. Fundamental to the success of this
 facility is the technical expertise of Smith (~30 years) and now Wilkinson (~7 years) and Brook
 (5 years), who support the analytical endeavours of the UoA24 Group and ensure vitality and
 future sustainability of the SIMS. Furthermore, to facilitate stable isotope delivery in humans, we
 developed strong links with Stockport Pharmaceuticals (Stepping Hill Hospital), that provide a
 quality control and manufacturing service for our sterile isotope tracer infusions, ensuring robust
 safety standards for volunteer studies.


 Flagship: MRI at the Sir Peter Mansfield Imaging Centre (SPMIC)
 World-leading expertise in the development and clinical application of MRI is a chief research
 strength at UoN. UoA24 Group members have direct access to state-of-art human imaging and
 spectroscopy facilities dedicated for research, and also contribute to management of the SPMIC;

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Macdonald – Chair SPMIC Scientific Committee, Greenhaff – musculoskeletal lead. SPMIC
 houses a range of MRI scanners; a 0.5 Tesla Paramed Upright, 1.5 Tesla GE HDxt, 3.0 Tesla
 GE Discovery MR750, 3.0 Tesla Philips Achieva, 3.0 Tesla Philips Ingenia Wide Bore, a 7.0
 Tesla Philips Achieva, and a CTF MEG scanner. In addition, there is a mock scanner used for
 ‘sham’ experimental designs, for education and outreach purposes and volunteer familiarisation.
 SPMIC also contains a GE SPINlab MRI hyperpolariser, a Krypton hyperpolariser and a Xenon
 Hyperpolariser which provide scope to enhance MR scanning protocols in humans. The Ingenia
 Wide Bore scanner allows imaging to be performed during supine cycling (Lode, electrically
 braked MRI-compatible ergometer) and stepping exercise (Ergospect Diagnotic Pedal) at
 exercise workloads pre-determined using indirect calorimetry, while all whole-body magnets can
 accommodate plantar flexion/ extension exercise protocols using the Ergospect Trispect system.
 The imaging facilities are used by UoA24 Group researchers to study volunteers at rest (tissue
 volumes and architecture) and during controlled experimental interventions, such as using
 substrate infusions and exercise to quantify tissue (e.g. brain, liver, muscle) metabolism and
 physiology. Moreover, UoA24 Group members have been integral to the development and
 validation of in-magnet exercise methods.


 Underpinning: Technicians, research nurses and medical doctors
 The UoA24 Group has a team of skilled technicians, research nurses and medical doctors
 (Clinical Fellows undertaking PhDs) working alongside non-clinical staff and students and
 underpinned by SoM, SoLS, and Hospital Trusts. This team comprises:
    Human studies research technicians - technical specialists coordinating, supporting and
     executing human volunteer research (including exercise intervention studies), ‘wet
     laboratory’ analysis, collaborative development of study designs and ethics approval.
    Wet laboratory managers and principal research fellow (Constantin-Teodosiu) -
     technical specialists undertaking method development and sample analysis; training;
     sourcing, maintenance and operation of laboratory equipment; HTA management; radiation
     safety.
    Research nurses, clinical fellows and senior research fellow (Simpson) -
     provide clinical cover and care for volunteers during research protocols, deliver specialist
     technical support (including execution of hyperinsulinaemic clamps, cannulation, muscle
     biopsies (doctor only), drug and infusion management), volunteer screening, University
     IR(ME)R practitioner (responsible for University-wide DEXA facilities).

 These colleagues also support the UoA24 Group extensively through analysis of data; drafting
 and reviewing reports and papers; developing new techniques; writing SOPs, risk assessments
 and implementation of standard procedures; health and safety responsibility; support and
 training of students, newly-appointed PDRAs, and visiting scientists; and organising/supporting
 widening participation and research events.


 Underpinning: Key enabling technologies

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    Body composition, muscle and cardiovascular imaging: We have capacity for the
     measurement of body composition, including DEXA for accurately detailing body fat and lean
     mass, and bone mineral density and content (Nottingham and Derby site). We maintain two
     Easote X-vision ultrasound machines, for a range of imaging assessments focussed on
     muscle groups, while two Toshiba Aplio and a Phillips IU22 ultrasound provide standard
     clinical imaging capabilities across body systems, but additionally permit the quantification of
     muscle (and other organ) microvascular blood flow by contrast-enhanced ultrasound. In
     addition, the UoA24 Group has expertise in cardiac echocardiography and vascular doppler
     ultrasound (including flow-mediated dilatation).
    Neuromuscular imaging: In line with our strategy to develop areas of new strategic
     importance (section 1c), recently acquired motor unit assessment equipment (aligned to
     appointment of Piasecki) includes a purpose-built electromyography (EMG) package that
     enables simultaneous recording of surface and intramuscular EMG at sampling rates higher
     than that possible by most commercially available systems. Muscle and nerve stimulation
     can be applied at a range of intensities to assess peripheral neuromuscular function via
     involuntary contractions, with accompanying contractile force assessed via a series of multi-
     directional isometric force transducers.
    Pre-clinical facilities: While predominantly focussed on the human condition, we recognise
     the need for model organisms and animal studies in certain contexts. Equipment required for
     nematode models (led by Szewczyk) includes three dissecting microscopes, a fluorescence
     dissecting microscope, two upright fluorescence microscopes with digital movies imaging,
     five incubators and a full genome RNAi library. We have dedicated and aligned cell culture
     facilities on SoM and SoLS sites; class II cabinets for primary cell culture (biopsy-derived
     satellite cells) and immortalised cell lines (typically muscle L6/C2C12 cells); Flex cell and C-
     pace for cell stretching (bone cells, tendon cells, skeletal muscle cells) and contraction
     (skeletal muscle cells) experiments, respectively. Nottingham Medical School houses an
     animal facility and our members hold personal (e.g. Brook, Constantin-Teodosiu) and
     project (Cole) licences.
    Broad analytical biochemistry facilities: Underpinning our human nutrition, metabolism
     and physiology research are supportive gene, protein and organelle (e.g. mitochondrial ATP
     production) analytical capabilities. Equipment (on both sites) used to facilitate this includes
     Criterion/ Chemidoc systems for Western blotting; 2 ABI 7900HT and an ABI QuantStudio7
     micro-fluidics RTPCR for low-density array card mRNA analysis and genotyping (specifically
     by tetra-primer ARMS), and an EVOS M7000 imaging system for live cell imaging.
     Furthermore, biochemical analysis of tissues and biological fluids is supported by a range of
     equipment including a Biochrom amino acid (AA) analyser; IL-600 clinical chemistry
     analyser, five yellow-springs glucose/ lactate analysers, high-performance liquid
     chromatography analysers, multiple plate readers, acid-base analysers and high throughput
     centrifugal auto-analysers to measure blood metabolites (triglycerides, free fatty acids etc.).


 Facilitating research: bio-banking as a research resource

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have developed extensive HTA-compliant tissue and bio-fluid bio-banks, including archived
 muscle biopsy tissue and isolated muscle satellite cells (for cell culture). In addition, a library of
 cell-free plasma, serum RNA and protein extracts and DNA samples are stored (with research
 participant consent) as a research resource. These samples are pseudo-anonymised, allowing
 linkage to detailed phenotyping data such as body composition, handgrip strength and physical
 function measures.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 (4a) Interdisciplinary research collaborations


 The UoA24 Group unites researchers in physiological/exercise (cardiovascular, metabolic,
 functional and motor), nutritional (appetite, energy balance and obesity) and psychological
 (behaviour and motivation) sciences with those from the physical sciences (e.g. MRI Imaging)
 and clinical researchers, to collectively contribute to the UoN Health and Well-being
 Interdisciplinary Global Research Theme.


 As detailed in section 1a, major research progression and impact over the census period has
 been underpinned by active interdisciplinary collaborations via our research centres of
 excellence. This includes numerous partners that extend well beyond the institutional boundary.
 Indeed, the majority of our UoA24 research involves national (36.4% of scholarly output) and
 international (54.9%) collaboration beyond the institution (Figure 2)




 Figure 2 Collaboration in Scholarly Outputs



 The fact that only 2.5% of scholarly output involves single authorship work reflects the
 collaborative nature of human volunteer research, which characteristically requires partnership
 between scientists from different disciplines and clinicians. The scholarly outputs also reflect


                                                                                                 Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strategic external collaborations with key researchers working in similar areas (e.g. with Profs
 Thompson and Betts, University of Bath), and with other internationally recognised centres of
 research excellence (e.g. with Prof Eiken, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden; Prof
 Mekjavic, Jozef Stefan Institute, Slovenia; Prof Kadi, Orebro University; Prof Phillips, McMaster
 University, Canada; Profs Dela, Helge and Raben, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.
 Moreover, Prof Johannes van Lieshout (Amsterdam University Medical Centre) holds an
 honorary chair in SoLS, and provides an external viewpoint to members of the UoA24 Group as
 well as contributing expertise in cardio- and cerebrovascular regulation.


 International collaborations have also been initiated or strengthened by our MRC/Versus Arthritis
 Centre for Musculoskeletal Ageing Research PhD students spending up to 6 months of their
 training at external institutions (e.g. Dr Mackey and Dr Prats, University of Copenhagen), or with
 industrial partners (e.g. Novartis, Basel, Switzerland), and all of these PhD studentships (22 in
 total; 8 registered at UoN) involve cross-collaboration and joint student supervision between the
 Universities of Birmingham and Nottingham. Pump-priming funds are available via our centres of
 excellence, allowing researchers to establish new collaborations with academic and industrial
 partners. In the census period, these included Profs Hellerstein and Evans (University of
 California, Berkeley) and several pharmaceutical (GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis) or nutritional
 (Abbott Nutrition, Nestlé) partners. Thus, strong national and international collaborations are
 embedded into the practice of our future research leaders.


 Research collaboration was further reflected in research funding; £1.42M was secured through
 industrial collaborations and contracts, with by far the largest share (£1.31M) coming from
 overseas industry, commerce and public corporations. This includes significant funding from
 nutrition (e.g. Abbott Nutrition, Fresenius-Kabi) and pharma (e.g. GlaxoSmithKline) industries,
 with industrial collaborations also being bolstered through PhD studentships (section 2b), e.g.
 Nestlé (Tsintzas), Novartis (Wilkinson) and ARLA Foods (Atherton). Furthermore, substantive in-
 kind contributions of £1.0M were secured from the UK Space Agency for ESA bed-rest
 collaborative research. Our standing is also evident from consultancy roles with industry
 occupied by senior investigators (Table 2).


 The interdisciplinary nature of our research is reflected in its broad impact, illustrated by our
 Impact Case Studies (ICS) highlighting major public health influence. Specifically, Macdonald’s
 membership of the Government’s Scientific Advisory Committee for Nutrition, and his
 chairmanship of the Carbohydrates Working Group that authored the report ‘Carbohydrates and
 Health’ published in 2015. Recommendations in this report generated widespread media interest
 and culminated in the Government introducing the Soft Drinks Industry Levy in 2018. These
 impacted on the sugar-sweetened drink industry, resulting in widespread product reformulations
 towards lower sugar content, and consumers opting for zero and low sugar-content drinks.
 Similarly, Greenhaff chaired the Physiological Society expert panel that generated the ‘Growing
 Older, Better’ report, which was launched in a public event in the Houses of Parliament in 2019.

                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This led to Greenhaff giving evidence to the House of Lords Science and Technology Committee
 inquiry into ageing in the UK population, addressing, amongst a number of things, UK
 Government’s target of “at least five extra healthy, independent years of life by 2035, while
 narrowing the gap between the experience of the richest and poorest”. A second ICS describes
 how IP generated by UoN from the research of Constantin-Teodosiu and Greenhaff is being
 actively exploited by their IP Commercialisation Office, and looking towards the future and life
 beyond this planet, Szewczyk’s research is setting scientific priorities for space-life research in
 Europe and the USA.


 Taken altogether, the UoA24 Group has a broad portfolio of interdisciplinary research and
 is actively contributing to the research base of the UK and beyond, the economy and
 society.


 (4b) Influencing and supporting the discipline
 All members of the UoA24 Group have given invited lectures at academic institutions, symposia
 and conferences, many as invited keynote presentations. Similarly, all are active and engaged
 members of learned societies (in particular the Nutrition Society, the Physiological Society and
 the European College of Sports Science). Colleagues contributed significantly over the period to
 influence, support and highlight the discipline of Sport and Exercise Sciences, as outlined below.


 Table 2 Influencing, supporting and highlighting the discipline:


  Journal Editorial Board Membership (senior editorial roles in italics)


  Atherton - Experimental Physiology (2015-present); Applied Physiology, Nutrition and
  Metabolism (2013-present).
  Constantin-Teodosiu - Int J Molecular Sciences [Molecular Endocrinology & Metabolism]
  (2019 – present).
  Greenhaff - Acta Physiologica (2005-present); Scandinavian J Medicine and Science in
  Sports (Section Editor, 2009-Present); Journal of Physiology (3rd term as Reviewing Editor
  2016-present).
  Macdonald - International Journal of Obesity (Joint Editor-in-Chief, 2001-present).
  Phillips - Applied Physiology, Nutrition and Metabolism (2017-present).
  Siervo - Clinical Obesity (2012-present); Proceedings of Nutrition Society (2013-present);
  Nutrients (2019-present); European Journal of Clinical Nutrition (2019-present).
  Szewczyk - Biological Sciences in Space (2013-Present); Frontiers in Physiology
  (Environmental, Aviation, and Space section, 2017-present); Journal of Experimental Biology
  (2019-present).
  Taylor - Journal of Human Nutrition and Dietetics (2013 to 2019).
  Wilkinson - Experimental Physiology (Senior Editor, 2019-present).



                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Contribution to Professional Associations and Learned Societies


  Atherton - European Society for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition ‘Intensive course in Tracer
  Methodology in Metabolism’ (2016).
  Blockley - International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine Chapter Committee
  (2016-2017) and Historical Archives Committee (2017-present); Imaging Cerebral Physiology
  Network Organising Committee (2015-present).
  Greenhaff - European College of Sports Science Scientific Board (2010 – present);
  Physiological Society Scientific Organising Committee for Biomedical Basis of Elite
  Performance Conference (Chair 2015-2016), and Expert Panel ‘Growing Older, Better’ report
  (Chair 2017-2019).
  Piasecki - Physiological Society Council (2015-2018), Meetings Committee (2015-present)
  and Affiliate Working group (Chair 2017-2018).
  Smith - European Society for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition ‘Intensive course in Tracer
  Methodology in Metabolism’ (2016).
  Taylor - British Dietetic Association ‘Pat Judd Prize’ judging panel.
  Tsintzas - Physiological Society ‘Human and Exercise Physiology’ theme lead (2014-
  present), H3 symposium organiser ‘Integrative physiology of physical inactivity across the life
  span’ (2017), Conference Organiser ‘Experimental Models in Physiology’ (2018).

  External Expert Panel Membership


  Atherton - Consultancy roles with Abbott Nutrition and Fresenius Kabi.
  Greenhaff - Scientific Advisory Board ‘Living with Statins: a Social, Medical and Personal
  Perspective’ University of Copenhagen (2013-2018); Scientific Advisory Board Center for
  Healthy Aging University of Copenhagen (2019-present); Research Evaluator for Department
  of Nutrition, Exercise and Sports, University of Copenhagen (2018); Consultancy role with
  Nestlé (2019).
  Macdonald - UK Government Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition (2007-present) and
  Chair of the Carbohydrate Working Group (2008-2015); Chair of the UK Government
  Scientific Advisory Committee/ NHS England/ Diabetes UK joint working group ‘High fat diets
  in diabetes management’ (2018-2020).
  Siervo - External Scientific Advisor (Nutrition and Energy Metabolism) Food and Human
  Nutrition Unit, University of Alberta (2017-present); World Health Organisation reviewer -
  dementia platform.
  Szewczyk - Promotions Board External, School of Arts and Sciences, Rutgers University
  (2014).
  Tsintzas - Evaluator, Nutrigenomics platform, Top Institute Food and Nutrition, The
  Netherlands (2014-2016).




                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Membership of Grant and Fellowship Awarding Bodies


  Blockley - EPSRC Engineering Prioritisation Panel Member (2016).
  Macdonald - MRC UK Nutrition Research Partnership (2018-2019); Academy of Finland-Life
  Sciences Committee (2017-2019, Chair in 2018 and 2019); BMBF (Germany) Grant review
  panels for Competence Cluster in Nutrition (2014-2018); NWO (Netherlands) - Foundation for
  sustainable production and processing chains in agriculture and horticulture (2015-2018).
  Szewczyk - ESA/European Research Council partnership opportunities panel member
  (2015); Co-Chair, ESA Roadmap: Biology in support of human health (2015); UK Space
  Agency Space Exploration Committee (2012-2015); Co-Chair, ESA-Industry partnerships for
  human health working group (2016-2017); Italian Ministry of Health grants lead reviewer
  (Muscle Study Section, introducing member, 2010–present); Co-Chair, NASA GeneLab
  Animal Analysis Working Group (2019-present).


  Patent Awards


  Constantin-Teodosiu and Greenhaff - ‘Carnitine Retention’, US patent number 9,662,344
  B2 (30th May, 2017).


  Awards and Honours for Contributions to the Discipline


  Macdonald - British Nutrition Foundation Prize (2017).
  Greenhaff - University of Copenhagen honorary doctorate in Medicine (2018).
  Phillips - Physiological Society R Jean Bannister Prize Lecture Award (2018).
  Szewczyk - TechConnect Innovation Award for NemaLife device (2018).




                                                                                            Page 21
