Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: The Open University

 Unit of Assessment: D30 Philosophy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Introduction
 Philosophy at the OU is conducted by 9 members of staff: 2 Professors, 4 senior lecturers, 2
 lecturers, and 1 temporary lecturer. It sits within the School of Social Science and Global
 Studies, in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences. Drawing on the unique features of the OU,
 our goal is to shape philosophy discourse nationally and internationally through a combination of
 research projects with impact of reach and significance, a strong presence in international
 networks at all roles and levels, and an international cohort of graduate students.

 There is a thriving and inclusive research culture which has achieved excellent results in this
 REF period. This is evident in that the five targets set in the REF2014 Environment Template
 have all been surpassed, sometimes significantly so.

 ‘First, departmental members’ time will be managed to enable them to produce books and
 articles. We aim to increase significantly the number of books produced by the department in the
 next REF period.’ In this REF period, the number of outputs has increased in each category: 104
 academic articles, 7 edited collections, and 6 single-authored books. This corpus has had a
 significant impact: it has enriched some fields, changed the course of others, and initiated new
 areas of research.

 ‘Secondly, the department aims to increase its income from external sources.’ This has seen a
 greater than twelve-fold increase from £42K in the previous REF period to £518,151 in this,
 through a combination of large, medium, and smaller awards.

 ‘Thirdly, we will increase our presence in international research networks.’ The narrative below
 provides evidence of our success in achieving this, including recruiting an international body of
 Postgraduate Research Students (PGRS). Here, it will suffice to indicate that the department is
 currently home to four major international research projects and is involved in editing two major
 international journals.

 ‘Fourthly, we will continue our commitment to interdisciplinary research’. This has been
 continued and improved with significant interdisciplinary research projects and an increase in the
 number of jointly supervised PGRS (see this section and section 2).

 ‘Fifthly, we will aim to increase both the quantity and quality of our graduate students.’ In this
 REF period, 11 PGRS have graduated with PhDs (5 based overseas) and we currently have 11
 PGRS in a growing and successful graduate community, 3 of whom have full AHRC funding. In
 the previous REF period, 2 PGRS graduated with PhDs, and 1 with an MPhil.

 1.2 Research strategy over this REF period
 A key strategic aim over this REF period was to build an international reputation for research into
 reasons for valuing. We achieved this by increasing the vitality of the department by attracting
 new researchers; building an exciting and sustainable PGR community; raising our international
 profile; and pursuing new and interesting research projects which delivered impact of reach and
 significance. Two significant changes were made. The first was to combine the two research
 groups, ‘Philosophy of Value’ and ‘Meaning, Mind, and Rationality’ into a single research group,
 ‘Values and Reasons’ (V&R). The second was to enact a grant-capture strategy with more
 effective institutional and peer support for the development of individual bids. This resulted in a
 large increase in the number of bids: 21 bids were made of which 13 were successful. The shift
 in focus towards externally funded research formed an integral part of the strategy for building
 international and interdisciplinary research networks, as well as bringing new ideas into the
 department through staff appointments.

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 V&R operates at departmental level. It organises a seminar series of 8-10 outside speakers per
 year, open to all, and an annual two-day research conference at which members of the group
 present ‘work in progress’. It has organised a ‘research-production team’ (modelled on the
 successful OU ‘module-production team’) in which drafts of articles are read and commented
 upon specifically with the aim of improving quality and increasing the chances of publication in
 good quality journals and edited collections. It was recognised by the Faculty as a ‘research
 cluster’ in 2017 – a status that facilitates cross-Faculty collaboration and opens the opportunity
 for internal funding. Finding reasons for value and ways in which those reasons can be improved
 provided the rationale for projects which had international reach and significance,
 interdisciplinarity, and the wherewithal to bring new voices into the department. It also
 underpinned the departmental approach to impact.

 1.3 Impact developments and strategy
 The impact of projects was developed by a combination of (a) peer review from staff with a
 successful track record of impact and (b) additional resource. Both Impact Case Studies (ICSs)
 we are submitting benefitted from this. The first was an instance of (a); the impact section of
 Matravers’s AHRC bid was thoroughly peer-reviewed, and the impact sections of this bid were
 given the highest possible score by all three AHRC reviewers. The second was an instance of
 (b); Pike was bought out from his managerial work in order to develop his impact case.

 The first ICS is the result of research conducted into the weight of reasons for valuing heritage in
 war zones. This AHRC-funded project, Heritage in War (HWP), is run by Matravers (PI) and
 Helen Frowe (Stockholm University) (Co-I). This researches whether it is just to sacrifice other
 goods to preserve heritage in war zones. This has a direct impact on the thinking of military and
 heritage professionals who are legally obliged to consider such calculations. It also has
 international reach and significance; HWP is a collaboration between philosophers, lawyers, the
 military, museum professionals and archaeologists, and partners including West Point Military
 Academy (US), the Norwegian Council for Ethics in the Defence Sector, the American University
 in Beirut, and a City-based legal expert on UN Conventions. It has held two conferences (in
 Cambridge in 2019 and New Orleans in 2020 – the latter was postponed at a late stage because
 of COVID) as well as 15 workshops and seminars in the UK, Sweden, Norway, Lebanon, and
 the US. Finally, it bought Thomas into the department as a Postdoctoral Researcher.

 The second ICS is Ethics in Sport (ES) run by Pike. This brings Pike’s research on the nature of
 sport to bear on controversial current issues in the regulation of sport. It examines several
 debates which require a balance between fairness of competition and some other good. The first
 concerns ‘therapeutic use exemptions’; the second concerns whether there should be
 constraints on transgender women’s participation in women’s sports; the third concerns the use
 of transcranial direct current stimulation devices to enhance athletic performance. Pike’s
 research has led to changes of policy by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), UK Anti-
 Doping (UKAD), and World Rugby (WR). This project bought Hobbs, an AHRC-funded
 collaborative doctoral project with UKAD, into the department. Furthermore, Pike has been
 awarded 17K USD by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to fund a postdoctoral
 research assistant for 14 months later this year. Yorke, a former PGRS in the department, has
 been appointed.

 Additional projects (several of them externally funded) further demonstrate the range and
 success of our research and impact strategy:

 The BA-funded project on ‘Sympathy and Its Reflections in History’ (SRH) was run by Matravers
 (PI) and Anik Waldow (Sydney University) (Co-I) (2014-2016). This brought together an
 interdisciplinary team of philosophers, classicists, anthropologists, psychoanalysts from the UK,
 Australia, and the USA to investigate historical and conceptual formulations of empathy. It held
 several online workshops, three face-to-face workshops (two in Oxford and one in Cambridge)
 and two face-to-face conferences in Bloomington (Indiana) and Sydney. This resulted in a book
 by Matravers (Empathy, Polity, 2017), a collection co-edited by Matravers and Waldow

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Philosophical Perspectives on Empathy: Theoretical Approaches and Emerging Challenges
 (Routledge, 2019), and several further papers and spin-off projects. Once the decision was
 taken to focus departmental research on values and reasons, Matravers switched his attention
 to HWP.

 The AHRC-funded project on Role Ethics (RE) run by Barber (PI) and Cordell (Co-I) researches
 reasons behind the ethics of roles. RE combines two related strands. First, the ‘Role Ethics
 Network’: a network of philosophers from Continental Europe, the US, Canada, Australia, and
 Asia. This has held three workshops (in London, Manchester, and Edinburgh) leading to a
 volume under contract with OUP. Second, the ‘Codes of Ethics Project’, which applies the
 results of this research to provide a more robust intellectual ground for non-academic
 professionals (including those working with law, journalism, social work, the clergy, engineering,
 and so on) in formulating codes of ethics. Philosophers and non-academic professionals have
 got together in two workshops and a conference.

 Chappell has pursued two major projects in this REF period. The first, for which she was
 awarded a Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship (2017-2021) considers how ‘epiphanies’
 generate reasons and motivations for our valuing activities. Money from this bought,
 successively, three temporary lecturers into the department: Majeed, Pinder, Cavedon-Taylor.
 The second has continued her work on transgender. She has used her expertise to advise the
 British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy on the development of its ethical
 framework and policies, particularly with respect to transgender. She served first as a Governor
 (2013-2018) and then as an advisor to their Ethics and Standards Committee (2018-2019).

 1.4 Attitude to openness
 The Department is an enthusiastic participant in the OU’s historic mission to be ‘open to people,
 places, methods, and ideas’ and pursues a variety of ways in which to make our research
 available to those inside and outside academia. As discussed in the REF5(a), the OU is
 pursuing a policy of open access, supported by ‘Open Research Online’ (ORO) and CORE.
 Philosophy PGRS also conform to this policy. Matravers is on the OU’s group for discussing,
 and eventually implementing, ‘Plan-S’ (the Europe-wide plan for open access). At departmental
 level, the ‘media co-ordinator’ (Cavedon-Taylor) implements the strategy we have for
 ‘showcasing’ our research on social media. This has four strands, corresponding to the four
 media platforms available to us (see REF5(a)): the OU/BBC partnership; the OU’s signature
 online free-learning platform, OpenLearn; the UK MOOC Platform, ‘FutureLearn’; and the usual
 social media channels such as Blogs, Facebook, and Twitter. Details of this engagement can be
 found in section 4.

 1.5 Research integrity
 Because research is focussed on reasons for value, and members of department work
 collaboratively with groups such as the military and those responsible for the regulation of drug-
 taking in sport, members of department are constantly vigilant concerning research integrity. All
 research is conducted in an open and transparent manner. If it is thought that any issues with
 ethical approval might arise, advice is taken from the Research Office as to whether to involve
 the Human Research Ethics Committee (HREC). This was the case with HWP and ES; as
 neither involved direct empirical research with human participants, it was held the research did
 not fall within the remit of HREC. All PhD applications are scrutinised for potential issues with
 ethics and research integrity; none were declined for these reasons in the REF period. The
 department brings its expertise on values and reasons to contribute to research ethics and
 integrity at University level; Matravers has been Chair of the Animal Welfare and Ethical Review
 Board (see REF5(a)) over the entire REF period.

 1.6 Strategy for 2021-2028
 In line with the OU’s ambition to ‘inform, inspire, and influence’, over the next REF cycle the
 department will:



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Continue to produce world-leading research in ‘values and reasons’ and to use that to
        achieve impact of international reach and significance and impact on the local community
    •   Increase such impact through new substantial international and interdisciplinary research
        projects
    •   Increase our thriving international and interdisciplinary PGRS community.

 We will achieve this by continuing with those structures that have served us well in the past:
 research plans that are kept current by being part of the annual appraisal system; a ‘mini-
 sabbatical’ system which enables members of department to concentrate their annual research
 leave into two-months blocks (see section 2); and the established systems of peer-review.
 Members of department will be encouraged to set up, or participate in, international research
 networks. Activities that enrich the research culture (such as conference organisation and editing
 journals) will be supported with time and resource. We will continue to seek ways to expand our
 staff base.

 Our aims align with the key university priorities of pursuing ‘engaged research’ to influence the
 world beyond academia and increasing the proportion of research expenditure funded from
 external sources (see REF5(a)). With respect to bidding for external research income, targets
 will be set for external grant income, with expectations as to the extent to which individuals
 should bid for grants. Those expectations will be set by matching the nature of bid with the stage
 in research career. In addition to being interdisciplinary, a significant proportion of the bids will
 include collaboration with institutions outside academia in the pursuit of impact with reach and
 significance. Current plans include further development of the ES and RE projects, and initiating
 a project working on the reasons for the value of heritage.

 The strategy for dissemination follows the successful strategy for the last REF period. The
 provision of Open Educational Resources is an important part of this strategy, and members of
 the department will continue with the media strategy outlined above (there are already three
 OpenLearn courses planned for the next REF period, including one linked to RE) and to
 participate in schemes to give research talks in schools and colleges, arts festivals, philosophy
 clubs, art galleries, and secure environments. Over the next REF period we plan to focus more
 on the local (that is, Milton Keynes) community. The Open University Branch of The Royal
 Institute of Philosophy receives £1.5k p.a. of recurrent funding, which will be targeted at activities
 in the local community. Links have been made with ‘MK Gallery’ (the Milton Keynes Art Gallery)
 and The Stables (which organises the Milton Keynes International Festival) to explore
 opportunities to embed local concerns in the programme we set for V&R.

 2. People

 2.1 Staff
 Philosophy currently has 8 permanent full-time members of staff and 1 temporary full-time
 member of staff. Our staffing strategy has two aims. The first, which concerns existing staff, is to
 develop their skills thus enabling them to take on a variety of roles and strengthen their
 prospects for promotion. The second aim has been to increase the vitality of the department by
 attracting people early in their careers to develop their research with us in order to prepare them
 to take the next steps in academia.

 Since 2014, two long-serving full-time permanent members of staff have retired (Belshaw and
 Price) which enabled us to give a permanent contract to an Early Career Researcher (Pinder)
 previously on a fixed term contract. Hence, we have a good mix of senior and junior staff: 2
 Professors, 4 senior lecturers, 2 lecturers, and 1 temporary lecturer. Pinder’s appointment
 brought fresh expertise on conceptual ethics to our research cluster and resulted in a
 collaboration with Matravers on ‘Conceptual Engineering and Aesthetics’ which won the 2020
 British Society of Aesthetics ‘Connections Conference’ award (£12k).

 As cover for Chappell who is on a Leverhulme Fellowship, we were joined first by Majeed (who
 was with us for a year before moving to a full-time permanent position in Philosophy at

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Auckland), Pinder (who was subsequently given a full-time permanent contract at the OU), and
 then Cavedon-Taylor (currently on a 16-month contract). Thomas is funded by Matravers’s
 AHRC grant for two years (2018-2020). All temporary members of staff are entitled to a research
 allowance, the full complement of research leave, and research support throughout their
 contract. They are also allocated a ‘research mentor’ and are given priority in opportunities to
 have work read and commented upon by their peers (in the ‘research team’ and the
 departmental research seminars and conferences).

 At the individual level, annual ‘research plans’ are produced, covering outputs, bids for external
 funding (with detailed plans for impact), and PGRS supervision. The individual plans are
 discussed with the research lead (Matravers) and with the Head of Department (Dries) as part
 of the annual Career Development and Staff Appraisal (CDSA) review (for details, see REF5(a)).

 As described in REF5(a), the OU makes generous provision for research leave. This is usually
 taken as a combination of one day per week and 44 days remission from other duties. The
 unique structure of the OU allows for opportunities for research not available at other
 universities. As the year is not divided into terms or semesters, research leave need not be
 taken at specified times of the year (during the summer, for example) but can, by arrangement,
 be ‘booked’ as a continual block of two months (that is, 44 ‘work’ days) for any time of year (the
 ‘mini-sabbatical’ system). A further advantage of this is that those away require ‘shadows’,
 enabling junior staff to occupy roles (such as being Research Lead) normally occupied by senior
 staff, which facilitates succession-planning.

 In addition to full-time academics and PGRS, the department has a broader research community
 in its 32 Associate Lecturers (ALs) who are responsible for providing tutorials and assessment
 feedback to the undergraduates. Although ALs do not have contractual research responsibilities
 with the OU, and hence are not included in this submission, many of them are active
 researchers. To enrich the department’s research culture and provide further opportunities for
 discussion, a research conference attended by ALs and staff is held biennially. Furthermore, ALs
 are welcome to apply for the status of ‘Research Associate’; a status awarded on merit.
 Research Associates (three are currently ALs with records of peer-reviewed research) are
 invited to give papers and participate in departmental research events.

 Impact and engagement are a priority for the department. Resource is available both as
 specified time in the workload plan (developing impact and engagement is expected as part of
 research leave) and money from the Faculty ‘Strategic Research and Investment Fund’ (see
 section 3) as ‘seed-corn funding’ for larger projects. Impact, and bidding for external grant
 money, are both essential criteria for promotion to Senior Lecturer and beyond on research and
 research and teaching career tracks.

 2.2 Postgraduate Research Students
 PGRS benefit from the OU’s ethos of combining an excellent academic environment with
 tailored pastoral care. The OU exceeds the sector average for student satisfaction in the most
 recent Postgraduate Research Experience Survey – 87% compared to 81%, placed 5th
 nationally (2019). The department has worked hard to build a successful PGRS programme,
 attending both to recruitment and successful completion. We have had 11 PhDs awarded in this
 REF period (5 based overseas). Of the current 11 students registered, four are full-time and
 seven are part-time (four more – all part-time – have been accepted for October 2020 start).
 Four are jointly supervised with other departments: Classical Studies, English, Music, and
 Psychology. Pike is supervising a PGRS in partnership with UK Anti-Doping (UKAD) on the role
 of intentions in anti-doping regulation. This is linked to ES and is part of that ICS.

 One advantage for PGRS at the OU is that we can offer the opportunity for graduate study to
 students whatever their location. The department capitalises on this to extend its international
 reach and operates as the niche provider of opportunities for part-time philosophy doctoral work
 for students throughout the world. In this REF period, in addition to our UK-based students, we
 have had successful PGRS from Italy, Sweden, Switzerland, and two from Canada (all PGRS of

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the department, not of an Affiliated Research Centre (see REF5(a)). An implication of this is
 only a proportion of our successful graduate students show up on the HESA data. In
 addition, two PGRS have visited the department from other universities. A PGRS from the
 University of Granada was funded by the Spanish government to visit for four months to work
 with Matravers on the Philosophy of Music (work which, when subsequently published, won the
 American Society for Aesthetics John Fisher Prize). A student from UNEM in Spain is currently
 visiting to work on Political Philosophy.

 The availability of videoconferencing, at which we have long been expert, allows us to provide
 excellent ongoing supervision. COVID permitting, PGRS are required to be physically present for
 (a) induction sessions; (b) their probation viva; and (c) their examination. In addition, they are
 required to attend at least one of the PGRS conferences in person. During the current pandemic,
 these activities have successfully been delivered online.

 A second advantage is the OU’s participation in the Doctoral Training Programmes. These not
 only make funding available but bring opportunities for collaborative work and training with
 Cambridge and Oxford Universities (see section 3). The increasing recognition of the
 department as somewhere that ‘punches above its weight’ in research is reflected in the fact that
 in this, the first year of the scheme, three applicants won full funding to pursue their
 postgraduate research.

 PGRS are allocated two supervisors, a primary and secondary. Both supervisors participate in
 all aspects of teaching, with the primary taking the lead in mentoring and interacting with
 university systems. PGRS also have a ‘third party monitor’ (TPM). The TPM plays no role in
 teaching or assessment but is available should the student have concerns which they would
 rather not take up with their supervisors. The department appoints TPMs from outside
 Philosophy to reduce the possibility of conflicts of interest. In addition to supervisions, there are
 regular online seminars and an annual day-workshop (face-to-face, COVID permitting) at which
 PGRS present and discuss their work. Of those who graduated, two have turned their
 dissertations into academic monographs: Jon Phelan, Literature and Understanding, (Routledge
 2020) and Brandon Robshaw, Should a Liberal State Ban the Burqa? (Bloomsbury, 2020).
 Another (Christopher Yorke) has twice won the essay prize of the International Association for
 the Philosophy of Sport with work from his thesis and has been employed as a Postdoctoral
 Research Assistant on Pike’s ES project from September 2020.

 2.3 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 The commitment to equality and improving diversity and inclusion is integrated into all aspects of
 the research environment of the department. Assessment of research, both for inclusion in the
 REF and for career progression, respects DORA (see REF5(a)).

 2.3.1 Early Career Researchers (ECR)
 Care is taken to ensure that ECRs have sufficient time for research; they are given a
 comparatively light load of teaching and administration. This enabled Pinder (our sole ECR) to
 complete several writing projects, make and win grant applications, and thus make a significant
 contribution to this REF submission.

 2.3.2 Staff tutors
 The OU has two categories of full-time permanent academic staff: Central Academics and Staff
 Tutors (STs). STs’ contracts permit, but do not require, research as 60% of their workload is
 allocated to academic management, including line-managing ALs. The department has two STs,
 Cordell and Pike. Departmental policy has always been to support STs as part of our ethos of
 equality in research: they are full members of the research culture and have the same privileges
 and opportunities as central colleagues in this respect. They are invariably given the maximum
 research leave that can be awarded on the ST contract (42 days) which has enabled both to
 make a full contribution to this REF submission: Cordell is Co-I on RE, and Pike has led on ES
 and has submitted one of the ICSs.


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.3.3 Temporary staff
 As stated above, directly employed temporary staff receive the same research privileges as
 academics on permanent contracts. The support and encouragement they have received from
 the department enabled both of those whose status has changed during this REF period to
 move to full-time permanent posts (Majeed to Auckland, and Pinder at the OU).

 2.3.4 PGRS
 The University and the discipline provide an exceptional level of support and pastoral care to
 support a diverse range of PGRS. Supervisors in Philosophy are particularly experienced at
 developing the skills of students who enter research degrees with less preparation than might be
 typical at other institutions. As previously indicated, we encourage applications to our PGRS
 programme regardless of age and geographical location. We are proud of the fact that our
 PGRS population stretches from those who have progressed straight from MA study to those
 who returning to HE after a break.

 2.3.5 Recruitment
 In common with OU employment practice in general, Philosophy scrupulously applies fair
 selection, equality and diversity processes at all stages of the job application and interview
 process. Members of interview panels undergo training in how to address unconscious bias and
 ensure equality of opportunity for all applicants.

 2.3.6 In the workplace
 As described in REF5(a), the university has a policy of flexible working that is interpreted
 generously to accommodate different personal circumstances. The OU works in each of the four
 nations, thus the dispersed nature of the staff and graduate student community places unique
 demands on day-to-day working patterns. Even in non-COVID times, measures to facilitate
 remote working ensure that meetings can be attended remotely, enabling those with child-care
 or other caring responsibilities, as well as those with short-term workload pressures, to
 participate fully in all decision-making forums.

 2.3.7 Conferences and workshops
 All such events are organised according to the Good Practice Scheme provided by the Society
 of Women in Philosophy and endorsed by the British Philosophical Association which aims to
 increase the representation of women in philosophical events and encourage parity of treatment.
 All such events have met or surpassed the benchmarks described in that scheme.

 2.4 REF 2021 Preparations
 The OU’s Philosophy submission has been prepared by a panel of three whose appointments
 were ratified by both the Faculty and the University. The panel consists of the UOA lead, the
 Head of Department, and the ECR. The three women in the department were invited to join but
 declined: one for workload reasons (she was completing a monograph that forms part of our
 submission), one because she intended to retire, and one because she was on a Leverhulme
 Fellowship. All members of the panel have received the Equality and Diversity training required
 by the OU’s REF 2021 Code of Practice. All members of the UOA were invited to submit outputs
 they would like considered, and these were assessed in two stages: in January-April 2019 and
 then in February-May 2020. Combining the two rounds, 47 outputs were assessed, with all
 outputs assessed by two members of the panel. Outputs where the internal panel were uncertain
 were read by an external consultant (16 outputs (34%)). Weight was given to the external
 consultant’s view, but in no case did it override a decided view of the panel. The final selection
 process was concluded in October 2020. According to the processes set out in the OU Code of
 Practice, all members of the UOA were invited to submit individual circumstances to the
 University to determine any reduction in the overall output submission pool. The panel was
 informed of the University’s decisions. All decision-making meetings of the panel had minutes
 taken by a member of the Faculty’s administrative staff which were retained in the Faculty.




                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 Bidding is now part of the culture of the department, the successful outcomes of which have
 contributed greatly to our vitality and will continue to contribute to our sustainability. As described
 in section 1, ideas for bids originate within V&R and support for bids is available from the Faculty
 Research Office and extensive opportunities for expert peer review (see below). The quality of
 this support is shown in our success rate; over the REF period, 21 bids were made of which 13
 were successful (a success rate of 62%). The total out-turn from this REF period is £518,151.
 There were four particularly prestigious grant awards made on a competitive basis: Matravers’s
 AHRC HWP grant of £409,093; Chappell’s Leverhulme Fellowship of £145,243; Barber and
 Cordell’s AHRC RE grant of £35,703. Significant outputs from these projects (including two
 monographs, two edited collections, and further impact) will carry over to the next REF cycle.
 Belshaw, who retired in 2015, won a grant from the Templeton Foundation for a project,
 ‘Immortality, Memory, and Imagination’ (2014-2015; £33,492). This bought him out of his
 administration role enabling him to complete two papers. In addition, members of the discipline
 won smaller competitive grants: an Advanced Olympic Research Grant (2020, £11,979, Pike);
 the British Society of Aesthetics ‘Connections Conference’ grant (2020, £11,422, Matravers and
 Pinder); and a BA Small Grant for SRH (2014, £9,995, Matravers). The discipline won several
 smaller grants for conferences, workshops, and collaborative work.

 In addition, the department has been successful in winning £71,297 in competitive internal
 funding; this has, in the main, supported the development of larger projects. In addition to this
 money, and the £6k for ‘Values and Reasons’ described below, the department gets additional
 funding from learned societies. It hosts a Branch of the Royal Institute of Philosophy (£1.5k p.a.)
 and a significant proportion of Matravers’ research travel (c. £4k p.a.) has been funded by The
 British Society of Aesthetics, in his role as editor of the British Journal of Aesthetics.

 3.2 Infrastructure
 Philosophy is housed in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences (FASS) which was established
 in August 2016 by the merger of the former Faculty of Arts and Faculty of Social Sciences,
 creating a rich multidisciplinary combination of Arts and Social Science subjects. The Faculty
 comprises three Schools: Arts and Humanities, Psychology and Counselling, and – the School in
 which Philosophy is located – Social Sciences and Global Studies (SSGS). Other departments
 in the School are Development, Economics, Politics, Religious Studies, Social Policy and
 Criminology, and Sociology. The OU has a presence across the UK (REF5(a)). Philosophy
 research events have been held in England and Scotland, and participants have been drawn
 from all four nations.

 A robust research support infrastructure in both the former and now merged Faculty has been
 important for Philosophy’s research success. FASS is led by an Executive Dean supported in
 research-related matters by the Associate Dean (Research Enterprise and Scholarship) (ADR).
 The ADR chairs the FASS Research Board which takes a strategic overview of research activity
 (including PGRS) within FASS, liaising with the University Research Committee to inform
 institutional research culture and represent FASS on key issues. The infrastructure for research
 support extends further by the appointment of Directors of Research within FASS’s three
 schools (Matravers was SSGS Director of Research from 2017-2019) and Research Leads
 within departments (all these appointments come with an appropriate workload allocation).
 The Faculty Research Office supports Philosophy’s research activities; committees and groups
 providing advice and high-quality administration. This office links Philosophy, via FASS, to the
 University’s Research and Enterprise Office and Graduate School, enabling members to
 influence and implement University level research strategy and policy (Pinder, for example, sits
 on the University REF 2021 Institutional Review Team). The office has a team of 20 including
 two Senior Managers. The team supports Philosophy with tailored support in research bid
 development, knowledge exchange, impact activity, HEIF funding support, the management of
 external funding awards, research student administration, strategic internal funding for research,
 coordination of the REF submission, research groups, and visiting academics. Members of

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 department receive one-to-one support at each stage of the bidding process and grant
 maintenance from an assigned Research Manager to help write and manage project budgets
 and ensure that grant applications comply with financial and legal regulations. An Awards
 Management System database tracks all research and enterprise income, enabling reliable
 maintenance of bids, projects, and impact evidence. Bid quality is reinforced by robust academic
 peer review. Philosophy also benefits from training workshops, research induction sessions, and
 a network across the university to facilitate cross-faculty initiatives.

 Impact is supported in scholarly and operational structures at Faculty and University level. FASS
 has recently appointed a full-time Impact, Enterprise and Knowledge Exchange Manager,
 complementing the Business Development Manager within the Research Office. Philosophy
 works within these structures to maximise the impact of research and partnerships, particularly
 those aligned with teaching, scholarship and the University’s social mission. It has established
 groups to plan and co-ordinate this activity in preparation for the KEF.

 FASS supports several inter-disciplinary research groups including V&R which receives £1.5k
 p.a. to fund the activities as described in section 1. FASS also provides funding for the
 development of individual and collaborative research, enterprise, impact and knowledge
 exchange projects. Members of department are supported in achieving their research potential
 in financial and pastoral terms, having a personal research allowance of £500 per year and
 access to larger sums by application from budgets devolved to Schools and to the Faculty
 Strategic Research Investment Fund (see above for internal grant income). FASS has strategies
 in place to support academics at every career stage, with particular support for ECRs and first-
 time bidders.

 FASS has, as of 2020, 151 PGRS of whom 47 are full time and 104 are part-time. The PhD
 programme is led by the Director of Research Degrees who chairs regular meetings which are
 attended by Cavedon-Taylor (the departmental PG Officer). Philosophy PGRS applicants are
 encouraged to apply to the Open Oxford Cambridge (OOC) partnership (this succeeded the
 Consortium for the Humanities and the Arts South-East England (CHASE) which ran from 2014
 to 2018). As discussed in section 2, the quality of Philosophy research environment has been
 recognised, with three applicants being awarded full OOC scholarships in the first (and so far,
 only) round.

 3.3 Facilities
 Library support at the OU is tailored to scholars who work remotely from the University’s
 headquarters at Milton Keynes (see REF5(a)). Staff and research students are provided with
 online access to a world-class collection of over 275,000 subscribed academic journals, 540
 online databases, 590,000 e-books and a vast selection of online newspapers, images, video
 and sound, with 24-hour helpdesk support and a range of face-to-face and online training
 facilities. An efficient inter-library loan system geared to providing online and print access to
 research materials (via pdfs of documents, articles, loan copies, and so on) complements the
 library’s resources. Researchers in Philosophy benefit from databases such as the Philosopher’s
 Index and the Routledge Encyclopaedia of Philosophy, as well to others which provide access to
 primary texts in the history of philosophy such as Early English Books Online and Eighteenth-
 Century Collections Online. The multi-million-pound investments in online services include the
 University’s repository Open Research Online (ORO), with over 40,000 OU publications and
 over 70,000 full-text downloads a month from all over the world (see REF5(a)). All publications
 by researchers in Philosophy are included in ORO, and where possible, the full-text content of
 these publications is available freely online.

 3.3.1 Communication
 Cavedon-Taylor, the departmental Media Co-ordinator, works with two FASS-appointed ‘Open
 Media Fellows’; a role which comes with a 0.2% FTE workload allocation. Through the Media
 Fellows, Cavedon-Taylor links members of department with the BBC Broadcast Partnership,
 OpenLearn, FutureLearn, and the FASS and University Communications and Media teams. This
 enables departmental research expertise to inform TV, radio and online learning provision for

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 wider societal benefits and impacts as well as supporting curriculum (as described in section 4).
 Cavedon-Taylor also works with the FASS Communications Team to support research
 websites and other social media platforms. This facilitates exposure for research and supports
 the design of online engagement to capture impact of reach and significance. Together they
 maximise opportunities to raise the profile of research and engage with a range of publics and
 other stakeholders.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 International research collaborations and recognition
 The ‘mini-sabbatical’ system described in section1, together with the structures described in
 section 3, together give members of department the time and the resource to put in place
 effective international research collaborations, networks and partnerships. Those which are part
 of HWP, ES, RS, and SRH, their impact, and their positive effect on the departmental research
 environment, have been described in section1. In addition, Chappell’s work has been the
 subject of workshops in Flinders (Australia, 2014), Aberdeen (2015), and Zurich (2018). Dries’s
 work on 19th Century German philosophy has benefitted from his being a 2-months Visiting
 Researcher at Shanghai’s Tongji University in 2017, where his research on Nietzsche was
 discussed in English and in Chinese translation. He was then invited back to teach a
 masterclass based on his research (2019). In 2015, there was an international conference in
 Uppsala devoted solely to discussion of Matravers’s book, Fiction and Narrative. Speakers were
 drawn from the leaders in the field from the US, Canada, the UK, and Scandinavia.

 4.2 Wider activities, impact, and engagement with diverse communities
 The discipline engages fully with online platforms that bring research to diverse communities and
 publics. Its ‘social media strategy’ (see section 1) engages the four platforms open to it.
 The first is via the OU/BBC partnership. Dries’s expertise on Nietzsche was recognised by his
 being appointed academic consultant (and interviewee) on the BBC’s Genius of the Modern
 World: Nietzsche. This attracted over 500k viewers during its first screening, is rated 8.2 on
 IMDB, and has been broadcast seven times since then. He also advised on two ‘vodcasts’ in the
 ‘BBC Ideas’ series: ‘Plato on Referendums’ (38.8k views on 05/08/20) and ‘Humiliation’ (140k
 views on 05/08/2020). Matravers used his work on comparing value to produce the BBC Guide
 to Effective Altruism (this was independent of the OU hence we do not have data on the number
 of views).

 The second is via the OU’s signature online free-learning platform, OpenLearn. This has had 80
 million visitors since its launch in 2006. In 2018/19 there were 8.9 million visitors, 5.6 million of
 whom viewed one of the many free courses. In this REF period two full free ‘badged open
 courses’ have emerged directly from Matravers’s research on the repair or reconstruction of
 cultural heritage, together with a number of brief lectures and essays.

 Exploring Philosophy: Faking Nature. This course was written by Matravers. It is a three-week,
 9-hour course. This has had 1209 enrolled learners from 124 countries and issued 267
 statements of participation.
 The Ethics of Cultural Heritage in Peace and Conflict: This course was written by Thomas,
 disseminating the research from the HWP. To date, this has had 242 enrolments from 96
 different countries and issued 44 statements of participation.

 Short video lectures supported essays are occasionally posted on topical subjects. Recent
 examples are:
 Heritage in War. This brief (3’16) lecture and essay conveys some of the findings of the HWP. It
 had 566 unique visitors from Jan 18 to Jan 20.
 Is Democracy a Good Thing? This is a brief (5’17) lecture and essay by Matravers. It has had
 6562 unique visitors.

 The third is the platform ‘FutureLearn’, the UK MOOC portal, which was founded by, and still
 partly owned by, the OU. Content for this is commissioned via the School and Faculty through

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the usual channels. Departmental expertise which arose directly from discussions within V&R
 was employed to pioneer the school presence on this platform:

 Global Ethics: An Introduction. This course draws on Cordell and Pike’s work in Political
 Philosophy, and Dries’s work on the Philosophy of Value. It is a four-week, 12-hour course. It
 has attracted well over 3k learners and has a positive feedback figure of 92.2%.

 The fourth platform is the usual social media channels such as Blogs, Facebook, and Twitter.
 Departmental members contribute to departmental and other OU Blogs. In addition, HWP ran a
 series of blogs publicising the research; so far, there are 13 posts with over 2500 views. The ES
 Twitter account currently has over 2K followers, including sports philosophers, developmental
 biologists, sports scientists and coaches, athletes and para-athletes such as Tanni Grey-
 Thompson.

 Members of the department are active in looking for opportunities to present their research to
 groups of people outside academia. In this REF period, they have regularly given talks in
 schools and colleges, arts festivals, philosophy clubs, art galleries, and secure environments. In
 particular, Chappell regularly appears at the How the Light Gets In Festival, and has written for
 Aeon, 3am, The Philosophers’ Magazine, been a guest on BBC Radio 4, and interviewed for
 The Guardian. She has also contributed to The American Philosophical Association Blog and
 Crooked Timber. Her writing on transgender, including the blog post, ‘Trans Women/Men and
 Adoptive Parents: An Analogy’ has appeared on several platforms, and been extensively
 commented on including response pieces on prominent platforms such as Aeon and Medium as
 well as prompting interviews published in The Philosophers’ Magazine and The Guardian.
 Matravers has also written for The Philosophers’ Magazine on his empathy research and been
 interviewed about HWP on BBC Three Counties Radio. Pike has written on the Philosophy of
 Sport for The Guardian Online and The Philosophers’ Magazine and has given a televised
 interview for Sky Sports News. Pinder has published on his ‘Experimental Philosophy’ research
 in the popular magazine, Philosophy Now.

 4.3 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline
 Members of department have contributed to the sustainability of the discipline through work on
 committees, organising research events, and QA. (Information on workshops and conferences
 associated with HWP, RE, and SRH, mentioned in section 1, is here repeated for ease of
 reference).

 Chimisso served on the British Philosophical Association Executive Committee (2014-2019).
 Chappell, Dries, and Price jointly organised Owning our Emotions: Emotion, Authenticity, and
 the Self (London, 2016). Cavedon-Taylor organised Perception and Mental Imagery in
 Philosophy and Psychology (Southampton, 2018) and Absence Perception (Antwerp, 2015).
 Chappell organised 30 Years of Ethics and The Limits of Philosophy, (Oxford, 2015). Dries and
 Peter Kail (Oxford) organised a conference on Nietzsche on Value and Self-Constitution,
 (Oxford, 2014); and with Joseph Schear, Joerg Schaub, and Fabian Freyenhagen (Oxford and
 Essex), The Right to Freedom: A Symposium on Critical Theory, (London, 2014). As PI and Co-I
 on RE, Barber and Cordell organised five international workshops (in London, Manchester, and
 Edinburgh) and a conference (London, 2017). As PI on SRH, Matravers oversaw several online
 workshops, three face-to-face workshops (two in Oxford and one in Cambridge) and two face-to-
 face conferences in Bloomington (Indiana) and Sydney. As PI on the HWP, he has been
 responsible for two major conferences (Cambridge in 2019 and New Orleans in 2020 – the latter
 was postponed at a late stage because of COVID) as well as 15 workshops and seminars in the
 UK, Sweden, Norway, Lebanon, and the US. In 2017, with Chris Bartel (Appalachian State
 University), he ran an externally-funded international conference ‘Video Games and Virtual
 Ethics’ (London). In 2014, he organised and ran a British Academy funded day on
 ‘Interdisciplinarity’, attended by 20 ECRs from across the UK, with talks from representatives of
 the AHRC, publishing, research administrators, and the Head of CRASSH (the Cambridge
 University home for externally-funded projects). Pike organised the annual conference of the
 British Philosophy of Sport Association (Oxford, 2019). Since 2018, he has convened a virtual

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international reading group on the Philosophy of Sport. This involves the PGRS and
 postdoctoral researchers (Morrison and Hobbs, soon to be joined by Yorke) together with
 colleagues in the Sport discipline at the OU. Pinder organised a workshop on Conceptual
 Engineering while at Ruhr-Universität Bochum (2019).

 In addition, discipline members have been External Examiners (excluding research degrees) at
 the following institutions: The University of Cambridge, The University of Durham, Oxford
 Brookes University, The University of Warwick. Matravers has been the External Assessor on
 QA visits to the Philosophy Department at Birkbeck College, University of London and the IDEA
 Centre, University of Leeds and Pike was External Assessor for the Philosophy Department at
 Liverpool University.

 4.4 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base
 As stated in section 1, a key strategic aim over this REF period was to build an international
 reputation for research into reasons for valuing, in part, by building international and
 interdisciplinary research networks. This is manifest in departmental contributions to the
 research base, which has not only enabled us to shape philosophical discourse both home and
 abroad but has bought acquired expertise back into the department thus enriching our research
 culture.

 Editing duties: Chappell has been an Associate Editor of The Philosophical Quarterly
 throughout this REF period. Since 2019, Matravers has been Editor, with Paloma Atencia-
 Linares, of the British Journal of Aesthetics. He is also Academic Editor of the Bloomsbury series
 in Analytic Aesthetics and has commissioned five 2nd editions of existing volumes and six new
 titles in this REF period. From 2017 to 2020 Price was, with Eric Walle, Editor of Emotion
 Researcher.

 Participation on grants committees: Cavedon-Taylor has been the Treasurer of The British
 Society of Aesthetics (since 2012; re-elected in 2015 and 2018); he chairs the committee with
 distributes the money for Fellowships and grants (£90k p.a.). Chappell is a member of the Mind
 Association Executive. In this capacity she oversees the conference-grant scheme (£60k p.a.),
 the Fellowship Scheme (£50k p.a.), and the Studentship Scheme (£40k p.a.). She is also a
 member of the REF2021 Panel.

 Fellowships: Chappell held a Visiting Fellowship at the University of St Andrews (2017-20) and
 the Erskine Fellowship at the University of Canterbury (New Zealand) (2019-2020). Chimisso’s
 work on twentieth century French Philosophy of Science has benefitted from a Visiting
 Fellowship in Italy (the University of Milan). Matravers held the Hugh le May Fellowship at
 Rhodes University, South Africa and the Peter Kraus Fellowship at the University of Auckland
 (both in 2018). Pike was a Visiting Fellow at the Uehiro Centre in Oxford (2018). Pinder was a
 Visiting Fellow at Ruhr-Universität Bochum (2019) and a ‘Santander Mobility Scholar’ at The
 University of St Andrews (2019).

 Prizes: HWP won the AHRC staff prize for ‘Best Research Project’ (2018) and was runner-up in
 the OU-wide ‘Most Significant Research Project’ (2019).

 Membership of Research Councils and other committees: Chimisso served as an elected
 member of the History of Philosophy of Science Society Steering Committee (2016-2019); and
 as a member the management committee of the British Society for the History of Philosophy
 (2012-2020). She has assessed proposals for the French Research Agency (Agence Nationale
 de la Recherche). Dries has assessed proposals for Italian National Agency for the Evaluation
 of the University and Research Systems and the German DFG. Matravers has served on the
 AHRC Peer Review College (2017-2020) and assessed proposals for The Irish Research
 Council Laureate Awards Scheme, the German DFG, and the National Science Centre, Poland.
 He has served on the Royal Music Association Music and Philosophy Study Group (2014-2020).
 Pike is Chair of the British Philosophy of Sport Association (since 2019).


                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Invited keynotes and Conference Chair Roles: Members of the discipline are frequently invited to
 deliver keynote talks at conferences. Amongst the most significant in this REF period are
 presentations by Chimisso of her work in Leuven and Paris, and significant keynote addresses
 at the History of the Philosophy of Science Conference (Ghent, 2014) and the British Society for
 the History of Philosophy (London, 2019). She also chaired the Annual Conference Committee
 of the British Society for the History of Philosophy (2015). Matravers gave the annual Wollheim
 Lecture at the American Society of Aesthetics (2018) and the Robert Solomon Lecture at the
 University of Auckland (2019). He was Chair of the Conference Committee of The American
 Society for Aesthetics (2014). Pike was Chair of the Conference Committee of the British Society
 for the Philosophy of Sport Association (2019).

 Refereeing: Matravers was a judge on the British Society of Aesthetics Essay Prize (2020); and
 Sole Assessor for the International Journal of Philosophical Studies Essay Competition (2019).
 Pike was a judge (2018) and then chair of the judges (2019) for the British Philosophy of Sport
 Essay Prize. Members of department are frequent reviewers of submissions for a range of
 philosophical journals. In this REF period such reviews have been conducted for 42 different
 journals, for several multiple times. Members of department have also reviewed manuscripts for
 the major philosophy publishers, for some on several occasions.




                                                                                         Page 13
