Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Bristol

 Unit of Assessment: 2: Public Health, Health Services and Primary Care

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Overview
We are international leaders in population health science research. As the largest research
grouping within the University of Bristol (UoB), we are one of UoB’s leading drivers of research
output, impact, capacity-building, training and income. In the Shanghai GRAS Ranking for Public
Health UoB was 2nd and 3rd in the UK in 2019 and 2020 respectively, and 8th globally.

Our research spans discovery science based on large-scale ‘omics, through translational research
and pilot and feasibility trials, to large Phase III randomized trials, evidence synthesis, evaluation
and implementation science. Strong links between our major externally-funded research centres
facilitate this translational pathway. The Medical Research Council (MRC) Integrative Epidemiology
Unit (IEU) directed by Davey Smith (Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS)) is internationally
renowned for developing and applying research methods, including Mendelian randomization, that
have transformed epidemiology and are increasingly applied to discovery science. We host and co-
fund The Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children (ALSPAC – also known as “Children of
the 90s”), which is one of the world’s most richly phenotyped birth cohorts. Translational research
conducted by our National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Bristol Biomedical Research
Centre (BRC) has a strong population science focus. Public health, health services and primary
care research is conducted by our two NIHR Schools of Research (Public Health and Primary
Care) and NIHR Health Protection Research Unit (HPRU). Our highly regarded UK Clinical
Research Collaboration (UKCRC)-registered Clinical Trials Unit has delivered major randomized
trials with immediate implications for practice. Our Applied Research Collaboration (ARC West)
helps bring research evidence into practice and provides training for the local health workforce.
This linked research infrastructure – along with major grant funding (Section 3) – has led to
creation of new University-funded posts (Section 2).

We pride ourselves on developing and supporting inter- and multi-disciplinarity across our research
teams, with disciplines ranging from anthropology to statistics (Section 2). The NIHR Bristol BRC
(Iredale (UoA1) Director; Sterne Deputy Director; Davey Smith Scientific Director) provides an
important route to clinical and public health impact, with cross-cutting themes on Translational
Population Science, Biostatistics and Evidence Synthesis, and Qualitative Research. Four of the
five research themes are led from UoA2: Mental Health (Gunnell/Zammit); Nutrition (Ness);
Perinatal and Reproductive Health (Lawlor); and Surgical Innovation (Blazeby/Blom). NIHR ARC
West also builds on our strength in population health, with three of four research themes and all
cross-cutting themes led from UoA2: Mental Health (Moran); Behavioural and Qualitative Science
(Yardley); Applied Data Science (Ben-Shlomo); Integrated and Optimal Care (Salisbury);
Healthier Childhoods (Crawley); Evidence (Higgins); Health Economics (Hollingworth);
Implementation (Feder).

We seek impact at all stages of the translational pipeline, consistent with our mission to drive novel
methodology-driven research, developing and evaluating interventions and preventative strategies
from concept to implementation. Our Impact Case Studies exemplify how our world-leading
research, underpinned by methodological development, has led directly to patient and population

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
benefit across a wide range of disease areas (surgery, reproductive health, suicide and self-harm,
cancer, infectious disease) and patient groups, including marginal and hard-to-reach populations
such as people who inject drugs and victims of domestic violence. The underpinning research
included observational studies, modelling, novel methods of evidence synthesis and health
technology appraisal, and large innovative randomized controlled trials.

We prioritise support for the career development of researchers at all career stages, as individuals
and teams. We strongly promote patient and public involvement, science communication and
knowledge mobilisation to translate excellence in research into impact on clinical practice, public
health and public policies.

Our new research strategy is to capitalise upon and expand our existing research excellence,
develop new research and training in global health, digital health, and data science, advance early
and mid-career researchers as our next generation of research leaders, work to remove gender
and other inequalities, and promote greater diversity in our research community.

1.1 Research structure within UoA2
Research in Public Health, Health Services and Primary Care at UoB is delivered primarily through
the Bristol Population Health Science (Specialist) Research Institute (Bristol-PHSI) led by Relton.
This is the largest of UoB’s seven such Institutes. Bristol-PHSI is cross-Faculty, with the majority of
contributors within Population Health Sciences (PHS), led by Hickman, the largest of two sections
of Bristol Medical School (BMS) led by Blom. The Faculty of Health Sciences is led by Norman
(UoA1) and overseen by the Pro Vice-Chancellor (Health) (Iredale (UoA1)), with Peters as Faculty
Research Director and Relton as Faculty Enterprise and Innovation Director. Our Bristol-PHSI
research strategy identified areas of excellence and potential for growth, which here we group into
four themes: Translational Epidemiology; Public Health; Primary Care and Applied Health
Research.

We have doubled the number of researchers submitted in UoA2 from 84 in 2014 to 168 in 2021
(Section 2).

In 2014 UoB conducted a review of its biomedical research and education, aiming to build on the
earlier success of research in population health, encourage interdisciplinary and translational
research, and enhance training and teaching. This led to major restructuring of our research
compared with REF2014 (Institutional Environment Statement: REF5a). The key changes were:
   •   Creation of Bristol Medical School (BMS) from the School of Social and Community
       Medicine (SSCM) and School of Clinical Sciences (SOCS) in August 2017, with SSCM
       changing to Population Health Sciences (PHS) contributing primarily to this UoA, and
       SOCS to Translational Health Sciences (THS) contributing primarily to UoA1 and UoA4.
       BMS successfully modernised the undergraduate medical programme around case-based
       learning and increased early exposure of medical students to primary care.
   •   The Faculty of Health Sciences was created from BMS, Bristol Veterinary School and
       Bristol Dental School and a new Pro Vice-Chancellor (Health), Iredale (UoA1), was
       appointed.
   •   Bristol-PHSI was created in 2017, in recognition of our potential to sustain world-leading
       research of scale (REF5a). Bristol-PHSI draws together researchers from across the
       Faculty of Health Sciences, as well as the Faculties of Engineering, Life Sciences, Science,


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
       and Social Sciences and Law. Most PHSI researchers are submitted in UoA2 but members
       of Bristol-PHSI have been submitted to ten other UoAs across all Main Panels.
   •   Bristol Health Partners (BHP), a partnership between acute and mental health NHS Trusts,
       the Clinical Commissioning Group and local government, was designated as an Academic
       Health Sciences Centre (AHSC) in 2020, one of 8 nationally.

1.2 Research themes and highlights
Our four themes are made up of multiple interdisciplinary research groups and teams, encouraging
flexibility; our researchers can be members of several groupings. We have an exemplary track
record in leveraging our core infrastructure and programme funding to generate additional
University-funded posts (Section 2) and research investment (Section 3).

A. Translational Epidemiology
33 Researchers; 1 Impact Case Study (ICS) – Lawlor
We are a centre of excellence for development and application of causal analysis methods that
transform epidemiology into a core discovery science, testing effects of potentially modifiable
exposures on health outcomes to guide public health policy and, increasingly, support drug
development. Our outstanding longitudinal cohort resources are internationally renowned.

Core infrastructure and research groups
The MRC IEU, directed by Davey Smith, is a major focus of UoB’s research activities in population
health science (MRC/UoB £23M per quinquennium). It hosts six substantive research
programmes: Mendelian Randomization (Davey Smith); Statistical Methods for Improving Causal
Analyses (Tilling); Data Mining Epidemiological Relationships (Gaunt); Epigenetic Epidemiology
(Relton); Reproductive and Cardiometabolic Health (Lawlor); Modification of Health Behaviour
(Munafò, UoA4). The IEU (2013-18) successfully secured its second quinquennial funding (2018-
23).

The internationally-renowned Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children (ALSPAC), directed
by Timpson, is the most widely used prospective, multi-generation birth cohort of its kind (>800
registered users across >20 countries, 18 requests for data/samples per month). Core support
(MRC/Wellcome/UoB) was renewed for 2019-24 (£8M). During the REF2021 period 1272
published papers used ALSPAC data. By end 2020 ALSPAC had a study h-index of 145.

The Cancer Research UK (CRUK)-funded Integrative Cancer Epidemiology Programme (ICEP),
co-directed by Martin and Relton (2015-20, £4.15M, and renewed for 2020-25, £7.7M), applies
‘omic approaches and causal analysis methods to find better evidence for cancer prediction,
prevention and treatment. During 2014-19 ICEP created multiple databases and analytical
platforms that are openly accessible and widely used around the world. The recent renewal
expands translational aspects of the programme.

Our strength in Translational Population Science (TPS) underpinned creation of our NIHR Bristol
BRC (cross-cutting TPS theme led by Davey Smith, contributions to the Perinatal and
Reproductive Health theme led by Lawlor).




                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Research and impact highlights
Our research made a major contribution to advancing the integration of genomic data into
epidemiological enquiry through genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and large-scale
sequencing efforts [Timpson, Nature, 2015], including those studying intergenerational effects. For
example, novel variants associated with atopic dermatitis were found to be shared across other
atopic disorders [Wyss, Nat Commun, 2018; Ferreira, Nat Genet, 2017].

We pioneered methodological advances, notably development and application of the causal
inference method of Mendelian randomization (MR), utilized in >2000 publications since REF2014.
We developed analytical tools and made widely available open-access data resources to
undertake MR analysis with our MR-Base platform [Hemani, eLife, 2018], OpenGWAS database,
LD Hub [Zheng, Bioinformatics, 2017] and EpiGraphDB.

In collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) and Biogen we systematically applied these tools and
platforms to prioritise drug targets [Zheng, Nat Genet, 2020].

We successfully and rapidly applied new methods to clinically driven research questions. MR
studies showed that cholesterol-lowering statins could reduce risk of ovarian cancer, both among
women with no clear family history and in women with mutations in BRCA1 or BRCA2 who have an
elevated lifetime risk of this disease [Yarmolinsky, JAMA, 2020], motivating future randomized
controlled trials (RCTs) of statin therapy for cancer prevention. MR demonstrated that increasing
levels of physical activity reduce risks of prostate, breast and colorectal cancer by about 50%
[Kazmi, IJE, 2019; Papadimitriou, Nat Commun, 2020], that obesity causes people to smoke and
smoke more heavily [Carreras-Torres, BMJ, 2018] and is the most common cause of multiple
cancers after tobacco [Lauby-Secretan, NEJM, 2016].

Our work improved outcomes and minimised harm with in-vitro fertilization (IVF), prompting an
increase in single embryo transfers (45% to 60% from 2013 to 2016) and associated decreases in
multiple pregnancies and preterm births (ICS Lawlor) [Smith, JAMA, 2015].

B. Public Health
31 Researchers; 2 ICSs – Christensen & Hickman; Vickerman & Hickman
We are a centre of excellence for research and training in all aspects of Public Health. We host key
NIHR infrastructure programmes covering the three pillars of Public Health: Health Promotion and
Behaviour Change; Health Protection; and Health Services Research. We introduced two new MSc
programmes in Public Health (2018) and Epidemiology (2019). Our Public Health training was
rated top in the UK based on the 2019 National Training Survey.

Core infrastructure and research groups
We were a founder member of the NIHR School of Public Health Research (SPHR) with
infrastructure income of £3M per five years (2012-17 and 2017-22) and have played a key role in
helping the SPHR achieve its objectives nationally. Campbell is director of SPHR at UoB and
national SPHR Deputy Director and Training Lead. She led a successful bid for an additional
£3.9M nationally for research capacity development in the current quinquennium.

We host the NIHR Health Protection Research Unit (HPRU) in Evaluation of Interventions, co-led
by Hickman (UoB) and Oliver (Public Health England (PHE)) from 2014-20 (£4.6M), recently
renewed as an HPRU in Behavioural Science and Evaluation co-led by Hickman (UoB), Oliver and

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Amlot (PHE) for 2020-25 (£4M). Our HPRU is a partnership between UoB, PHE and other
universities (University of the West of England (UWE) Bristol, University of Cambridge, UCL). In its
first 5 years it contributed to >350 publications and 40 research studies with PHE.

The Bristol Nutrition Biomedical Research Unit led by Ness (2012-17; £4.5M) was renewed (2017-
22) as the Bristol BRC Nutrition Diet and Lifestyle theme (£5M).

Public Health and Prevention is one of the four core themes of NIHR ARC West (2019-25), as in
the previous (2014-19) Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care West
(CLAHRC West).

Our NIHR Public Health Research Programme – Public Health Intervention Responsive Studies
Teams (PHIRST) led by Campbell and Kidger (£1.5M 2020-25) builds on success in producing
methodologically rigorous, impactful and policy-relevant research with partners in local government
and the NHS.

The UKRI (UK Research and Innovation) UKPRP (Prevention Research Partnership) Consortium
led by Hickman on Tackling Root Causes Upstream of Unhealthy Urban Development (TRUUD)
2019-24 (£6.5M) is a partnership between UoB, Bristol City Council, Greater Manchester
Combined Authority, UWE Bristol and the Universities of Bath, Manchester and Reading. One of
four consortia funded in the first round, TRUUD created a trans-disciplinary team including
engineering, economics, politics, social policy, law, urban planning, finance, and public health.

Research and impact highlights
Our work was crucial to the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI)
recommending the introduction of the ‘MenB’ vaccine (Bexsero) in infants and was used by HM
Treasury to inform vaccine procurement [Christensen, BMJ, 2014] (ICS Christensen & Hickman).

We showed that protein antigen vaccines for Meningitis B do not impact on carriage and
transmission of meningococcus in the way that conjugate polysaccharide vaccines for Meningitis C
do, so young children cannot be protected indirectly by immunising teenagers for Meningitis B
[Read, Lancet, 2014; Marshall, NEJM, 2020] but can be for Meningitis C [Pace, BMJ, 2015]. We
supported efficient mobilisation and enrolment to permit rapid demonstration of efficacy of a novel
SARS-CoV-2 vaccine against symptomatic COVID-19 [Voysey, Lancet, 2020].

Our research strengthened global evidence on the impact and prevention of drug-related harm
among people who inject drugs (PWID) [Degenhardt, Lancet Glob Health, 2017; Trickey, Lancet
Gastro, 2019; Lim, Lancet Glob Health, 2020], in particular on prevention of Hepatitis C Virus
(HCV) [Martin, J Hep, 2016] (ICS Vickerman & Hickman). We showed that prison exposure is an
important driver of increased risk of HIV and HCV transmission [Stone, Lancet ID, 2018] and that
HCV case-finding in primary care can be highly cost-effective [Roberts, BMJ, 2020].

We strengthened public health evidence on adverse mental health risks and social outcomes of
adolescent self-harm [Mars, BMJ, 2014] and on the safety profile of varenicline, a smoking
cessation therapy [ThomasK, BMJ 2015].




                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
C. Primary Care
42 researchers; 2 ICSs – Feder; Gunnell & Biddle
As one of the largest UK centres for primary care research we are a centre of excellence for
development and evaluation of interventions to improve primary care nationally and globally. We
conduct research to optimise health care in the community for mental health and child health. We
are at the forefront of health informatics, developing scalable methods and secure infrastructure to
maximise the value that routine health and social data can add to health research.

Core infrastructure and research groups
UoB is a founder member of the NIHR School for Primary Care Research (NIHR SPCR) and one
of only three members reselected through all three renewal exercises (most recently in 2020-25).
Led by Salisbury (2010-17) then Macleod and Turner (from 2017), this provided research funding
of ~£2.2M per five years, along with £1.5M for capacity building.

Primary care makes a major contribution to the NIHR ARC West, including the Director (Macleod)
and four ARC themes (Moran, Crawley, Feder, Yardley).

We established key infrastructure through development of a ‘One in a Million’ NIHR-funded archive
of video recordings of GP consultations for future research, used in 16 research studies in different
universities on a wide range of topics.

Research and impact highlights
We undertook the landmark IRIS trial through a social enterprise (IRISi), which has trained >1,000
general practices. More than 20,500 women have been referred from these practices to domestic
violence services (ICS Feder).

Wiles, Kessler and Peters conducted large multicentre trials on the management of anxiety and
depression in primary care demonstrating the effectiveness of psychological therapy and optimal
use of antidepressants [Gilbody, BMJ, 2015; Kuyken, Lancet, 2015; Wiles, Lancet Psychiatry,
2016; Kessler, BMJ, 2018].

Our self-harm research influenced suicide prevention globally and in the UK. The World Health
Organization (WHO) and World Bank recommend restricting access to pesticides as a key
contributor to suicide prevention strategies, and our research motivated changes in online safety
regarding suicide content [Biddle, J Affect Disord, 2016; ICS Gunnell & Biddle].

Yardley pioneered the ‘Person-Based Approach’, developing digital tools to support self-
management for health problems in primary care [Yardley J Med Internet Res 2015] that
underpinned RCT designs [Little, Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol, 2016; Little, Lancet, 2015; Salisbury,
BMJ, 2016].

We led the most influential trial of an intervention to improve management of patients with
multimorbidity in primary care [Salisbury, Lancet, 2018].

Our research provides evidence cited by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence
(NICE) and antimicrobial stewardship polices internationally, regarding the effectiveness of
antibiotics [Little, Lancet Infect Dis 2014], their alternatives [Hay JAMA 2017, Hayward JAMA 2017]



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
and harms [Gulliford BMJ 2016, Bryce BMJ 2016] when used by primary care clinicians for
common diseases.

D. Applied Health Research
62 researchers; 4 ICSs – Blom & Whitehouse; Donovan; Martin; Welton
We have changed the culture and practice of applied health research in the evaluation of surgery
and invasive procedures, generating high-quality evidence to inform practice and measurement of
patient outcomes. We have optimised recruitment and participation in trials previously deemed too
difficult to conduct. We are internationally renowned for developing tools to assess risk of bias in
research studies and for developing novel statistical methods, such as network meta-analysis, that
are central to decision making by NICE, industry and other bodies evaluating new interventions.

Core infrastructure and research groups
Bristol Trials Centre (BTC) (Rogers, Lane) is a UKCRC-registered Clinical Trials Unit, combining
two NIHR-funded trials centres, with a portfolio of >40 ongoing multicentre trials (spanning UoA2
and UoA1). In 2019/20 BTC (both UoAs) received £1.8M from the NIHR, compared with £0.84M in
2013/14.

Central to our success in applied health research was NIHR CLAHRC West led by Donovan and
Redwood (2014-19, £10.4M grant funding and over £14M matched funding from 24 partner
organisations including NHS acute and mental health Trusts, primary care, local government, other
universities, industry, and third sector organisations). It was refunded as NIHR Applied Research
Collaboration (ARC) West led by Macleod and Redwood (2019-24, £9M grant funding and >£8M
co-funding committed to date from 25 partner organisations.

The MRC ConDuCT-II Hub (Collaboration and innovation in Difficult and Complex randomized
controlled Trials In Invasive procedures) for trials methodology research (Blazeby) (2014-19)
(£1.9M) supported cutting-edge methodological research relevant to pragmatic RCTs, with a
particular focus on surgical RCTs.

Our strength in surgical research from MRC ConDuCT-II and the Musculoskeletal Research Unit
(MRU) led by Blom and Tobias was taken forward by the Bristol BRC Surgical Innovation Theme
(2017-22, £2.7M).

The Bristol BRC Biostatistics, Evidence Synthesis and Informatics cross-cutting theme (Sterne,
Macleod, Higgins) supported clinically-facing research and developed health informatics in close
collaboration with local NHS organisations, leading to establishment of the Health Data Research
(HDR) UK South West Better Care Partnership (2020-23, £1.2M, Director Sterne).

Our NICE Technical Support Unit led by Welton (2011-22) (£2M) developed methods and
guidance on conducting Technology Appraisals for NICE Clinical Guidelines.

Research and impact highlights
We fundamentally changed the practice of arthroplasty worldwide, with adoption of our research in
NICE, US FDA and EU commission guidelines (ICS Blom & Whitehouse). Our research
highlighted greater risks of revision surgery following newer metal-on-metal hip replacement and
hip resurfacing approaches compared with long-standing metal-on-polyethylene implants [Lopez-
Lopez, BMJ, 2017]. We developed a tool to guide referrals for hip surgery [Price, Health

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Technology Assessment (HTA), 2019] and provided robust evidence on rates of revision surgery in
younger patients [Bayliss, Lancet, 2017].

We contributed to the transformation, nationally and globally, of the management of localised
prostate cancer (ICS Donovan) and decision-making about prostate cancer screening (ICS
Martin). Findings from the ProtecT Trial (Prostate testing for cancer and Treatment) [Hamdy,
NEJM, 2016; Donovan, NEJM, 2016] underpinned changes of practice from routine radical
(surgery or radiotherapy) treatment of low-risk prostate cancer to widespread use of active
monitoring, with substantial reductions in harm. The Cluster Randomized Trial of Prostate-Specific
Antigen (PSA) Testing for Prostate Cancer (CAP) RCT (>400,000 men randomized) confirmed that
population-based PSA screening should not be introduced because harms were likely to outweigh
benefits [Martin, JAMA, 2018].

Our globally-used tools for assessing risk of bias include: RoB2 for randomized trials [Sterne, BMJ,
2019]; ROBINS-I for non-randomized studies of interventions [Sterne, BMJ, 2016]; PROBAST for
prediction modelling studies [Wolff, Ann Int Med, 2019]; and ROBIS for systematic reviews
[Whiting, JCE, 2016]. Other key developments in evidence synthesis include meta-epidemiological
studies to provide empirical evidence about bias and heterogeneity in randomized trials [Savović,
AJE, 2018; Turner, Stat Med, 2015], ‘living’ systematic reviews to keep abreast of evidence as it
accumulates [Elliott, PLoS Med, 2014], and methodological advances in network meta-analysis,
health technology appraisal and population-adjusted indirect comparisons (ICS Welton).

We developed novel capability measures for use in economic evaluation to aid decision-making:
adding approaches for end-of-life and children to the ICECAP measures [Huynh, Soc Sci Med,
2017] and methods for measuring and reporting patient-reported outcomes in cancer trials [McNair,
PLoS Med, 2016; McNair, BMJ, 2019]. The innovative QuinteT Recruitment Intervention, which
aims to optimise patient participation and improve recruitment to complete challenging pragmatic
RCTs [Donovan, Trials, 2014; Rooshenas, PLoS Med, 2016], is being used in >25 RCTs.

1.3 Research and Impact strategy
Our impact strategy seeks to support the growth of, and give greater visibility to, a world-leading
population health research programme that aligns with the aspirations of the Academy of Medical
Sciences Report (2016) for ‘Improving the Health of the Public by 2040’. Specifically, it takes “a
broader view of the drivers of health and the types of evidence we need to intervene – now and in
the future – for the promotion of health and the prevention of disease”.

Research objectives during the assessment period
We achieved all our core strategic research aims listed in REF2014, including:
   •   Renewal and expansion of the MRC IEU (from 34 to 134 research active members).
   •   Renewal and increase in research capacity of ALSPAC including successful linkage of
       ALSPAC to multiple (>8) health and social administrative databases.
   •   Membership renewal of NIHR Schools for Primary Care Research and Public Health
       Research.
   •   Expansion of our RCT portfolio, with BTC (in UoA1 and UoA2) increasing the number of
       trials from 29 in 2013/14 to >40 in 2019/20.
   •   Widespread dissemination and knowledge mobilisation of key findings from the NIHR
       ProtecT RCT and linked CRUK/Department of Health CAP trial of prostate cancer
       screening highlighted in two ICSs (Donovan; Martin).

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
   •   Expansion of patient and public involvement in our research (described below).
   •   Expansion of postgraduate and doctoral training programmes (Section 2).
   •   Athena SWAN Silver Award for the newly formed BMS, building on previous Silver Awards
       for SSCM and SOCS.
   •   Renewal of NIHR CLAHRC West (as ARC West) and securing infrastructure grants that
       recognise our strong strategic and effective working relationships with partners in local NHS
       organisations, local government and other universities regionally and nationally.

Future strategic aims and goals
We have five key priorities over the next 5 years:
Nurture interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary research capacity and research that crosses
sectoral programmes: We are already highly multidisciplinary, with clinical and methodological
experts from various disciplines working together (Section 2). We will support our research teams
in developing and applying research methods and increase support for evaluating and optimising
new interventions and conducting population-based trials. We will seek renewal of MRC IEU,
renewed membership of the NIHR SPHR, and renewal and expansion of the NIHR Bristol
BRC. We will focus our effort and resources on continued capacity-building, especially by
supporting and increasing opportunities for early and mid-career researchers to secure
academic posts at UoB and other Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) and increasing the
diversity of our research teams and senior staff so that we better represent the population we
serve. We will support and encourage stronger links between clinical and life sciences, and of our
researchers with laboratory-based science, computer science, engineering, mathematics, law,
economics, and political, social and behavioural sciences. We will develop and apply for
research programmes that cross Faculties and disciplines, extending beyond “health
sciences” and attracting more cross-sectoral funding.

Expand research that harnesses new data science and digital health technologies: We will
encourage and support the integration of technologies such as novel sensor technologies and app-
based interventions and methods such as causal inference, machine learning and artificial
intelligence. We will establish new health record linkages with our NHS and local government
partners, and work within the population-level data resources established during the pandemic. We
will increase research capacity, training opportunities, and research programmes in data
science, contributing to the national need for skills development in this area. We will extend
partnerships with external stakeholders and agencies such as Health Data Research UK,
the Alan Turing Institute, NHS Digital and NHSX.

Develop non-academic partnerships and accelerate impact: We will expand and develop
more partnerships with non-academic entities, including the commercial sector, NHS, funders,
policymakers, civic and government organisations (local and national), NGOs, patients and the
public at all stages of the research lifecycle. We will explore a wide range of translational
pathways, including conventional routes to commercialisation, policy and practice impact as well as
develop strategies to enhance research uptake and implementation.

Transform models of discovery and implementation science: We will promote translational
epidemiology as a discovery science, forming a firm foundation at the early stages of the
translational pipeline to enhance and inform drug discovery. We will promote our model of
optimising interventions and increase the number of studies evaluating the implementation of
interventions into the NHS and other health systems. We will continue to prioritise and nurture

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
our positive, equitable and intellectually open research culture, embedding principles of research
improvement and responsible research and innovation across all activities (Section 1.8).

Enhance our global profile: We will ensure our research has international impact and seek
additional opportunities to address issues of global and climate health relevance. We will extend
strategic alliances with partners in Africa and Asia and expand programmes of research
including trials aligned with global and climate health priorities, building on initiatives such as
our NIHR Global Health Group on Health Systems Responses to Domestic Violence (Feder) and
Newton UK-China AMR Partnership Hub (Lambert). Our Global Public Health Research Strand
led by Lambert within UoB’s Elizabeth Blackwell Institute (EBI) has identified research priorities
including: multimorbidity in low and middle-income countries, for example the intersection of
musculoskeletal conditions, ageing and HIV in sub-Saharan Africa (Gregson); and prevention of
infection, for example using digital behaviour modification interventions in China (Yardley). We will
build on recently-funded studies on the global health consequences of COVID-19 to support future
pandemic recovery in low and middle-income countries, such as rapid-impact research on
provision of COVID-19 care in India and self-harm in Sri Lanka.

Achieving impact
There are several components of our impact strategy:

Research translation through influencing clinical and public health guidelines and policies,
shown in Section 4 and exemplified by our ICSs. For example, UoA2 research has underpinned:
NICE Technology Appraisal Guidance [TA304] Total hip replacement and resurfacing arthroplasty
for end-stage arthritis of the hip (ICS Blom & Whitehouse); NICE (NG131) Prostate cancer:
diagnosis and management (ICS Donovan); NICE [QS116] Domestic violence and abuse: quality
standard (ICS Feder); WHO World Suicide Report (ICS Gunnell & Biddle); NICE [PHG 43]
Hepatitis B and C testing (ICS Vickerman & Hickman); NICE [CG156] Fertility Problems:
Assessment and Treatment (ICS Lawlor); US Preventative Services Task Force (USPST)
recommendations on prostate-cancer-screening (ICS Martin); JCVI recommendations on Men B
Vaccine (ICS Christensen & Hickman]; NICE Guidelines Manual (ICS Welton).

Knowledge mobilisation and impact training: We are innovators in knowledge mobilisation
(KM) and effective involvement of patients and public in health research. This has largely been
led by our NIHR infrastructure (especially NIHR ARC West, SPCR, BRC and HPRU) with future
developments underpinned by renewals in these grants and our UKPRP consortium (TRUUD).
These provide the core funding for People in Health West of England (PHWE), led by colleagues at
UWE Bristol, a nationally recognised collaborative network that has established and driven
meaningful Patient and Public Involvement and Engagement (PPIE) for this UoA. Through PHWE
we provide training and resources to support both public contributors and PPIE leads within our
research teams. This includes payment policies, draft role descriptions, a newsletter, a regional
PPIE network and digital tools to support on-line involvement. The Learning and Development
programme covers a wide range of topics including an introduction to PPIE, co-production, digital
health and evaluating public involvement.

With support from UoB’s Research and Enterprise Development (RED) Division (REF5a), Bristol-
PHSI maps enterprise and innovation activities to identify opportunities for focused support and
impact acceleration. Several core infrastructure and programme grants also include KM fellows
who work with an expanded team on communications and PPIE. For example, KM fellows

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
supported optimisation and implementation of IRIS (ICS Feder), and won support from the
Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) to co-produce innovative health promotion
materials for service users and services to switch people to low-dead space syringes, contributing
to UK policies to reduce HCV transmission. Our Palliative and End-of-Life Care Research Group,
with funding from the Wellcome Trust (WT) and UoB, curated and produced the Good Grief
Festival, a three-day online public engagement event on grief and bereavement (Section 4).

We have embedded an Impact and Policy Engagement Manager in our local research environment
who has been instrumental in catalysing policy engagement training and involvement across the
career spectrum. Policy engagement champions spread expertise and experience and resulted in
outputs such as policy briefing notes and internships with the Parliamentary Office for Science and
Technology.

Translation and industry support: RED’s support, including its Impact Development Team,
enables initiatives such as commercialisation feasibility plans for novel epigenetic biomarkers via
MRC Confidence in Concept funding (Relton) and spin-out company development, for example
the not-for-profit smoking prevention programme ASSIST (Campbell). The UoB EBI Advisor on
Business Development provides guidance on and facilitates commercialisation, for example
establishment of an Industry Club of potential stakeholders in the MRC IEU data analytics platform
MR-Base [Hemani, eLife 2018] (Section 4).

With financial support from and in scientific collaboration with Pfizer, and in partnership with both
Bristol NHS Trusts, UoB has established a Centre of Excellence led by Finn to gather detailed
epidemiological information on vaccine-preventable infectious diseases (£5M).

1.4 Research culture and integrity
We provide training in research governance, and engagement with public and stakeholders,
through our short course programme and mandatory staff training modules. Bioethics colleagues
provide training in clinical and research ethics and bioethics methodologies (supported by Bristol
BRC Surgical Innovation theme and other major awards from WT and Engineering and Physical
Sciences Research Council (EPSRC)/UKRI (UoAs 18 and 30). They have been recognised for
their engagement with the public and professionals (UoB 2016 Engagement Award).

We endorse and support the development of the UK Reproducibility Network and UoB
Statement on Research Integrity, which sets out our commitment to the highest standards of
integrity in all aspects of research (REF5a). We aim for information to be shared in the public
domain (including research articles and data used in research papers) with hypotheses and
protocols pre-specified, and when data cannot be shared then that is clearly stated together with
the reason. We have a dedicated researcher to promote and support transparency in research to
augment our policies. As far as is possible and appropriate, we expect our researchers to: make
their research methods, software, outputs and data open, and available at the earliest possible
time, according to statements such as the Berlin Declaration; describe their data according to FAIR
(Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reusable) Data Principles; deposit their outputs in open
access (OA) repositories such as preprint servers and UoB’s institutional repository for OA; and
house research data in repositories such as UoB’s resource data.bris.

Our commitment to open research led us to develop custom software to monitor OA to our
publications, thereby ensuring that details and manuscripts are uploaded promptly to UoB’s

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
research repository. The system searches weekly for newly-published research articles and cross-
checks them with the repository. It is monitored by dedicated administrative staff who, where
necessary, contact authors to ensure the repository is current.

We actively promote the sharing of our data and being open about the uses to which they are put.
We explicitly welcome requests to access ALSPAC data and samples, including a high proportion
of independent projects (with no UoB collaborators involved) and we publish details of all research
proposals ALSPAC approves (currently >2,500). Our MR-Base analytics platform (Hemani,
Gaunt) catalogues >11 billion single nucleotide polymorphism-trait associations from >1600
GWAS and is updated regularly. It is openly available to anyone who wishes to register.



 2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy
UoA2 research at UoB (in large part from PHS) has a longstanding and highly-regarded reputation
for collegiality and intellectual openness. We provide a vibrant and supportive environment for
researchers at all levels within a diverse ecosystem that encompasses team scientists, group
leaders, professional services staff and early and mid-career researchers.

In PHS in 2020 there were 794 staff comprising 473 academic and technical research staff, 159
postgraduate students and 162 professional service staff. Our UoA2 submission includes 140
(83%) PHS staff, 16 from other BMS research units, 11 from Bristol Dental School, and 1 from the
School of Psychological Science.

The number of researchers submitted to UoA2 in REF2021 is 168 (153 FTE, 35 Early Career
Researchers (ECRs)), which has doubled compared with 84 staff (75 FTE, 21 ECRs) in REF2014.
The number of UoA2 staff in senior academic roles has increased from 13 to 32 and the number of
clinical academic staff from 26 to 56.

We aim to attract, support, retain and promote outstanding research active staff who conduct
internationally excellent research at all stages of the translational pipeline. Our substantial
expansion during the current REF period has been achieved through a combination of attracting
exceptional leaders and nurturing ECRs and Mid-Career Researchers (MCRs). We work with our
Faculty leadership, UoB Finance Services and UoB senior academic leadership to develop and
implement business cases that create new University-funded academic appointments and doctoral
studentships linked to successful major grant and infrastructure awards. All new appointments are
aligned with strategic research priorities. For example, during REF2021 we:
   •   Funded five new research-active Lectureships and Senior Lectureships during REF20201
       through our new MSc and intercalated BSc programmes, and will create further university
       appointments linked to iBSc and MSc programmes over the next 3-5 years.
   •   Created two new posts for Lecturers in qualitative methods supporting recruitment to trials
       (QuinteT group).
   •   Created a new Senior Lecturer (SL) and two Professor posts linked to the MRC ConDuCT
       Hub and Surgical Innovation BRC theme.
   •   Strengthened our evidence synthesis and health economics teams through new SL and
       Professor posts.
   •   Made strategic appointments of talented researchers from other institutions.

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
We also made a number of ‘proleptic’ appointments under which staff awarded externally-funded
senior Fellowships, or workstream leads within major programmes, are appointed to University-
funded posts after their Fellowship or programme grant finishes (Section 2.3).

Since 2014 we have appointed the following 35 new Associate Professors (AP) and Professors
through promotion (29) and external recruitment (6), enhancing our research strength across
UoA2:

Translational Epidemiology: Davis, Statistical Genetics; Egger, Clinical Epidemiology; Fraser,
Epidemiology; Gaunt, Health and Biomedical Informatics; Howe, Epidemiology and Medical
Statistics; LewisS, Molecular Epidemiology; Northstone, Medical Statistics; Timpson, Genetic
Epidemiology.

Public Health: De Vocht, Epidemiology and Public Health; Horner, Sexually Transmitted
Infections; Kipping, Public Health; Leary, Statistics.

Primary Care: Crawley, Child Health; Horwood, Social Sciences and Health; Joinson,
Developmental Psychology; Kessler, Primary Care; Moran, Psychiatry; Ridd, Primary Health
Care; Turner, Primary Care Research; Wiles, Epidemiology; Williams, Paediatric Ophthalmology;
Yardley, Behavioural Science.

Applied Health Research: Blair, Epidemiology and Statistics; Coast, Economics of Health and
Care; Gregson, Musculoskeletal Medicine; Hinchliffe, Vascular Surgery; Lambert, Medical
Anthropology; Lane, Trials Research; May, Medical Statistics; Potter, Oncoplastic Breast Surgery;
Rogers, Medical Statistics and Clinical Trials; Welton, Statistical and Health Economic Modelling;
Whitehouse, Trauma and Orthopaedics; Whiting, Clinical Epidemiology; Wylde, Musculoskeletal
Health Services Research.

We have established a multi-faceted approach to career progression and succession planning over
and above new and proleptic staff appointments. In our planning process, which determines
recruitment priorities, we identify strategically important areas for growth (currently translational
epidemiology, primary care, economic modelling, evidence synthesis, and medical statistics/data
science), over a three-year cycle. We encourage and support our senior professors to identify
successors and create succession, business, and strategic plans for our major research groups.
The Faculty of Health Sciences has established a pathway to substantive academic posts that will
be in place for the next REF period for research staff with a track record of successful income
generation and contribution to education and research training.

We recognise the vital contribution of team scientists to our research ecosystem, including the
important contribution of professional service and technical colleagues (programme and project
managers, administrative and technical support staff) and are actively developing career pathways
for these staff. We advocated successfully for the inclusion of criteria in the revised UoB framework
for progression (to grades up to Senior Research Fellow or Senior Lecturer) and promotion (to AP
or Professor) that better capture collective efforts to building our research capability and generate
research outputs and impact. New financial systems are in place across UoB that better recognise
team science contributions to research and income generation. Faculty targets for research income
are contextualised by discipline and expressed for research teams as well as individual PIs so that
we can support the career progression of team scientists and provide a path to UoB-funded posts.

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
2.2 Staff development
We are extremely proud of our inclusive research culture and subscribe fully to the Concordat to
Support the Career Development of Researchers. In addition to our formal mentorship and
development programmes (REF5a), we expect senior staff to offer a comprehensive range of
informal support to their more junior colleagues in areas such as grant-writing, supervised
reviewing of grants and manuscripts, support for new supervisors on thesis review committees and
nominations to external roles. We aim to support researchers in all disciplines to maximise the
impact of their research, for example through a range of training offerings and support provided by
an Impact and Policy Engagement Manager.

All staff receive annual reviews, and we provide training and advice to line managers to ensure that
career development, citizenship, research leadership, training and teaching contribution are
discussed, and career progression planned. We encourage all staff across all levels and roles to
make the most of the extensive staff development opportunities available. These include UoB
courses (REF5a), NIHR leadership courses for our NIHR academy researchers, mentoring and
leadership courses run by the Royal Society and Academy of Medical Sciences and the WT
Research Leadership Development Programme. Sabbatical opportunities and study leave are
available and considered following a transparent application process.

Staff development and training includes free access for all academic staff to our comprehensive
programme of 35+ high-quality intensive short courses in research methods, covering randomized
trials, epidemiology, medical statistics and data science (including genetics and epigenetics and
causal inference), qualitative research, health economics, evidence synthesis, and health
protection. These courses range from one to five days duration and are aimed at doctoral students,
postgraduate researchers, public health specialists, health care professionals and the
pharmaceutical and medical device industries. During the REF2021 period we increased the
number of places to ~1000 annually, from 850 in 2013/14. Each year we collect extensive
feedback on each course from attendees and organisers, review the course programme, and pilot
new courses. This ensures the programme evolves to meet current and future training needs of our
staff and PhD students.

We support researchers to collaborate with other research groups nationally and internationally
(Section 4). We have created honorary positions for staff from, and joint appointments with, NHS,
local government, PHE, UK industry and third sector, and several international universities. Such
links enhance our research environment and provide opportunities for intellectual engagement and
collaboration for ECRs.

2.3 Support for Early Career Researchers
An important strategic priority over this REF period was to create career development opportunities
and secure University academic posts for talented ECRs. This was achieved both by growing
research income and through income generated by provision of new taught postgraduate
programmes. Most of the appointments to new University-funded posts described in Section 2.1
were to our ECRs and MCRs. We also secured a substantial increase in proleptic appointments
that guarantee future academic posts, from 4 during REF2014 to 18 during REF2021. These were
supported and achieved as follows:




                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
UoB contributions to major competitive funding applications: MRC IEU future programme
lead (3); NIHR ARC West team lead (4); NIHR SPHR (1); ALSPAC (1); CRUK Integrative Cancer
Epidemiology Programme (1).

Other strategic support: Joint post in Public Health in local government (1).

Advanced fellowships: NIHR (2); Wellcome Sir Henry Dale Postdoctoral Fellowship (2); MRC
Clinician Scientist (1); UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship (2).

Many of our ECRs secure research and academic roles in other HEIs, as well as other professional
roles in a diversity of career paths. We actively support career advancement whether internal or
external to UoB.

As well as the staff development opportunities described in the previous section, our ECRs are
well-supported in developing a wider range of skills such as PPIE, impact development and data
management, with regular opportunities to contribute through representing their peers or local
research groupings in these activities. We aim to develop rounded academics with an excellent
understanding of all aspects of the research environment. We have created multiple opportunities
for bridging funding for ECRs through the EBI, NHS Research Capability Funding (RCF),
infrastructure grants and a newly established BMS Bridging Funding Scheme, which we are
piloting for UoB, for ECRs with future funding opportunities identified who cannot access other
funding to secure their salary between roles. Senior staff actively encourage inclusion and
development of less experienced researchers as co-investigators and workstream leads in
research grants, as well as supporting them to develop and lead their own funding submissions.

2.4 Fellowships
We provide comprehensive support for ECRs to make fellowship applications to develop their
intellectual niche, broader skills and consolidate their research independence. During the REF2021
period 124 researchers secured competitive fellowships including 33 doctoral awards (15 NIHR, 9
WT, 8 MRC, 1 Other Health Charity) and 62 postdoctoral awards (20 NIHR, 15 MRC/UKRI, 9 WT,
6 UoB Vice-Chancellor’s (VC) Fellows, 10 Other Health Charities, 2 ESRC). There were 6 NIHR
pre-doctoral awards for places on our MSc programme and 29 1-3 year launching fellowships that
provide valuable research experience and time with our research teams for clinical and non-clinical
ECRs. A key opportunity provided by UoB is the VC Fellowship Scheme (~£200k each over an
average of 3 years) (REF5a). To date UoB has appointed 41 VC Fellowships across all Faculties,
of which 6 are hosted in UoA2.

The Elizabeth Blackwell Institute (EBI) for interdisciplinary health research, led by Gooberman-
Hill, manages matched UoB and WT Institutional Strategic Support Funding (£1.5M annually) that
funded 38 Clinical Primers in UoA1 and UoA2. These provide early career clinicians with research
experience and time to prepare for an Academic Clinical Fellowship or doctoral application.

Support continues beyond the application and interview, with ongoing training and mentorship
throughout each Fellowship. Of 49 researchers who completed their fellowship since REF2014: 5
obtained another fellowship; 7 returned to clinical training; 24 moved into UoB research positions;
three obtained academic positions elsewhere; and 1 is on secondment.




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
During REF2021 two staff (Lawlor, Pearson) received European Research Council (ERC) awards
and three obtained MRC New Investigator Research Grants with 50% funding from UoB (Jones,
SharpG, now UoB-funded SLs; Dias now AP elsewhere).

2.5 Research students
We train a large multidisciplinary community of postgraduate research (PGR) students, registering
178 new students during REF2021 (an 85% increase on REF2014 UoA2), including 162 PhD
students. We have developed a diverse and vibrant doctoral training environment with students
from a wide array of academic and professional backgrounds, including public health, medicine,
biomedical and biological sciences, mathematics and statistics, computer science, econometrics,
social sciences, engineering and chemistry. Our PhD cohort are 76% female, 24% from BAME
groups. Studentships are advertised internationally, with 19% of registered students from outside
the EU. We offer a small number of international fee waivers (6 since 2014) for exceptional
overseas candidates. We include positive action statements and ensure diversity in recruitment
materials and on interview panels, and review our intake profile against all applications. Selection
involves a formal interview and project presentation involving at least one member of the PGR
team to ensure transparency and consistency. The BMS PGR team includes two co-Directors, six
postgraduate tutors, two postgraduate administrators and five PGR student representatives.

We have attracted or retained several doctoral programmes, leveraged UoB investment in new
studentships, supported applicants to secure funding through clinical and non-clinical doctoral
fellowships and secured several studentship cohorts as part of major competitive grants such as
the NIHR ARC West, Bristol BRC, MRC IEU and CRUK ICEP. Our funders include: Research
Councils UK (RCUK, 16%), Department of Health and Social Care and NIHR (20%), WT (16%),
other charities (11%) and self-funded (including overseas scholarships) (12%). Funding sources
include several doctoral training programmes, notably continued WT funding for a 4-year PhD
Programme in Molecular Genetic and Lifecourse Epidemiology (lead, Relton) since 2008; the WT
GW4 (REF5Aa) Clinical Academic Training Programme (lead, Iredale, UoA1) since 2015; an MRC
GW4-BIOMED DTP since 2015, with Population Health as one of the three themes; a cross-
Faculty British Heart Foundation (BHF) PhD Programme in Integrative Cardiovascular Science
(leads, Poole, George, UoA1, Gaunt) since 2017; and the cross-institutional MRC Addiction
Research Clinical Training programme (lead, Hickman) since 2015.

Most (94%) PhD students complete their studies successfully and within their maximum study
period (93% of those who complete). We offer a flexible approach to suspensions and extensions
of study to meet the diverse needs of our students, with the majority being for parental leave (16
suspensions), ill health (23 suspensions, 4 extensions), or clinical work in response to the COVID-
19 pandemic (11 suspensions). We provide access to low-cost childcare and a University Financial
Assistance Fund for students in financial need. Based on survey data we estimate at least 50% of
graduating students took up positions in research and 20% continued in clinical posts. Other career
destinations include Public Health England, industry, science communication and science policy.

The 2019 postgraduate research experience survey (PRES) results reflect our high-quality PGR
training environment, with 92% satisfied with their research degree experience (UK average 81%),
96% reporting receiving training in research skills (UK 76%), 96% reporting supervisors have the
skills and subject knowledge to support their research (UK 92%) and all measures of wellbeing
exceeding the UK average.



                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Our PhD experience is enhanced by a strong training programme. A comprehensive induction
programme covers what to expect from supervision, support services, training opportunities, PGR
policy and University services. Our monthly graduate studies programme provides generic and
core skills training, delivered by both internal and external experts. All PhD students have access
to our internationally-recognised programme of 35+ short courses covering an array of research
topics (Section 2.2; 192 places/year for PhD students). These are supplemented by training
courses and workshops from Bristol Doctoral College (REF5a) and the UoB Advanced Computing
Research Centre, with students encouraged to attend training courses throughout their degree. All
students are encouraged to attend and present at national and international conferences and
undertake public engagement.

We provide a comprehensive support network. All PhD students are allocated at least two
supervisors (median 3), a postgraduate tutor, a postgraduate director and a PhD student ‘buddy’.
We are piloting a new academic mentor scheme to provide independent support for career
development. Student progress is reviewed at 6 months, 12 months and annually thereafter, with
annual reviews carried out by two independent academic reviewers and documentation reviewed
by one postgraduate tutor and one postgraduate director. We aim to improve our PhD experience
continually, with an annual programme review (APR) to update our Education Action Plan, input
from students through an annual survey and inclusion of PGR student representatives in regular
PhD team meetings and the APR. Recent initiatives arising from this process include an academic
mentoring scheme, PGR newsletter and PGR ‘town hall’ meetings to promote regular dialogue
between PhD students and the PGR team.

Our PhD supervisors are central to our training environment. We actively encourage training and
development of new supervisors, with 40% of supervisors being ECRs or MCRs . To ensure ECRs
develop effective supervisory skills, they are mentored by more senior supervisors, provided with
supervisor training (run twice per year within BMS) and encouraged to supervise 4-month mini-
projects (as part of 4-year PhD programmes). We actively encourage senior supervisors to engage
with training to update their skills and share experiences with others. ECRs are supported in
developing PGR examination skills through annual training and the support of an independent viva
chair during their first examination experience.

The 2019 University Quality Team (UQT) review of our PhD programme commended our
supervisor training, comprehensive approach to induction, support network, submission rates and
sharing of best practice. We collaborate closely with PGR colleagues across the Faculty to ensure
a consistent experience for PGR students and to share training and development opportunities.
The annual Faculty PGR showcase provides an opportunity for students to present their work and
network with students from other disciplines.
We established two new MSc courses during REF2021 in Public Health (started 2018/19) and
Epidemiology (started 2019/20). The number of students who completed the MSc in Public Health
were 13 in 2018/19 (11 women and 2 men; 2 international students) and 21 in 2019/20 (19 women
and 2 men; 8 international students), increasing to 44 full-time MSc students across the
programmes (37 women and 7 men; 19 international students) in 2020/21. All taught postgraduate
(PGT) students have ready access to our research active staff, with extended research projects
programmed into all courses.




                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
2.6 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI)
EDI is a prominent feature of both the UoB Strategy and Vision and Bristol-PHSI Research
Strategy.

The UoA2 gender ratio has remained constant at 60% women since REF2014, although we now
have a higher proportion of women in senior academic roles (53% in 2020 vs. 38% in 2014) and a
higher proportion of women clinical academics (39% in 2020 vs. 25% in 2014). Between 2014 and
2020 there were increases in the proportion of staff declaring a disability (6.5% vs. 1.2%) and the
proportion of BAME academic staff (13.7% vs. 11.0%) as well as BAME groups across all BMS
staff (11.5% vs. 8.7%).

Highlights of our promotion of EDI during the REF2021 period include:
Mentoring: a variety of schemes have been developed and implemented to ensure mentoring is
widely available: Bristol Clear mentoring programme; Bristol Women Mentoring Network; Elevate
scheme (for women from BAME backgrounds across academic staff and professional services, run
across GW4 universities); Aurora Women’s Leadership Scheme; CV surgeries (annual ‘single-shot’
mentoring sessions with senior staff for focussed support to prioritise actions for personal
development).

Increasing access to opportunities for career development and promotion: we adopted an
annual ‘staff review and development checklist’ to ensure every staff member discusses criteria for
their next stage of progression or promotion in their staff review. This is supplemented by regular
workshops involving both academics and HR, ensuring all staff members understand the process,
enhanced transparency of criteria and streamlining of promotion process.

Clinical academic career progression: consultations determined barriers to and improved
recruitment of women clinical academics; women-only workshops for clinical academics are run
annually with senior women providing advice on career progression.

EDI in management roles and beyond: all committees, discussion panels, recruitment panels,
symposia programmes and other such events adhere to gender, and wherever possible ethnic,
representation.

Visibility of role models for staff and students: diversity is a major priority in refreshing the BMS
intranet and public-facing internet pages and communications.

Intolerance of inappropriate behaviour: has improved across BMS with 87% (2019 survey) of
staff recognising a culture of respect. Initiatives included regular information on this topic at BMS
meetings and in newsletters; posters and videos to improve communication; bystander training for
staff; raising awareness about recognising and reporting inappropriate behaviour.

Training in unconscious bias and fair and effective recruitment: BMS offers unconscious bias
training with plans to make this compulsory. ‘Blinding’ of protected characteristics to reduce bias in
recruitment processes has been introduced, for professional services since November 2019 and
for some PhD programmes since 2020.




                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Parental leave: a buddy system has been adopted across BMS, including keeping-in-touch days
and shared parenting leave. Paternal role models are presented on BMS internet pages to address
diversity and will be supplemented with a series of short videos. Awareness of maternity, paternity
and adoption leave has more than doubled (29% (2016) to 64% (2019)).

Flexible working is supported across BMS, with the implementation of a more transparent
application process in 2017/18. Since then, there have been 21 requests for flexible working from
academic staff in PHS.

COVID-19 crisis communication: during the pandemic key communications were promoted via
short videos addressing important points such as staff connectedness, work security, childcare and
flexible working.

Gender pay gap: the UoB mean gender pay gap (in men’s favour) is 12.2% (REF5a). In PHS the
overall gender pay gap has fallen from 21.9% in 2013/14 to 11.6% in 2019/20. The gender pay gap
for non-clinical professors within PHS has reduced from 13% in 2013/14 to -2.8% (in women’s
favour) in 2019/20. We expect the overall gender pay gap to fall further, because in the August
2020 promotions round 8/9 people promoted to Professor or AP were women.

The BAME representation in our workplace (11%) accords with the diversity of our city; 9.9% of
economically active adults in the Bristol area are from BAME groups. BMS has established an Anti-
Racism Task force, inspired by the Black Lives Matter movement. This partnership between
students and staff aims to design and implement strategies to identify and eliminate all forms of
racism within BMS. The scope encompasses curriculum decolonisation, workforce representation,
and improvement of the wellbeing of staff and students who identify as BAME. Research staff in
UoA2 are prominent in a pan-UoB initiative to ‘decolonise research’. BMS has signed up to the
BMA Racial Harassment Charter and NHS England’s Workforce Race Equality Standard.

Our academics, supported by EBI, lead on UoB’s ‘Mental Health in Young People’ research
initiative, looking at ways to improve mental health and wellbeing for young people, with a
particular focus on students including PGR and PGT students.

2.7 Supporting interdisciplinarity and clinical researchers
Our research is done by interdisciplinary teams including both clinical academics and non-clinical
researchers from a wide range of methodological disciplines. These include: anthropology,
behavioural and social science, bioinformatics, computational biology, data science, epidemiology,
epigenetics and genetics, ethics, health economics, informatics, mathematical modelling, statistics,
trial design, public health. Clinical specialties include: genito-urinary medicine; geriatric medicine;
neonatology; neurology; obstetrics and gynaecology; ophthalmology; oral medicine and
maxillofacial surgery; paediatrics; palliative medicine; primary care; psychiatry (adult, child and
adolescent, learning disability); public health; renal and transplantation medicine; rheumatology;
surgery (breast, colorectal, gastro-intestinal, orthopaedic, trauma and vascular).

We have built capacity in clinical academic research by increasing the number of Academic
Clinical Fellows (ACFs) and Academic Clinical Lecturers (ACLs), combining specialist
methodological training with clinical mentoring within both the NHS and UoB. We have leveraged
additional ACFs and ACLs from local NHS Trusts alongside investment from NIHR. Over the
REF2021 period in UoA1 and UoA2 we supervised a total of 114 ACFs and 58 ACLs. This

                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
comprised ‘formula’ NIHR-funded posts based on past grant income (53 ACFs and 18 ACLs), plus
NIHR-funded posts obtained through competition (33 ACFs and 11 ACLs) and leveraged posts
funded by our local NHS Trusts and deaneries (28 ACFs and 29 ACLs). Just over half the ACFs
and ACLs are in UoA2 (59 and 30 respectively).

We specialise in supporting clinical academics from specialties for which we provide the training
base (such as academic primary care, psychiatry, public health, community paediatrics and
surgery) as well as ACFs and ACLs who want to develop skills in translational epidemiology and
applied health services research (specialties of recent trainees include dermatology, emergency
medicine, medical oncology, obstetrics and gynaecology, palliative care and renal medicine). Of 31
ACFs who completed their training during REF2021, 20 started PhD programmes, funded by
NIHR, MRC, WT and CRUK.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Research income
Overall UoB research spend from UoA2 researchers increased >2.5-fold from REF2014 (total
£73.1M) to REF2021 (total £188.6M). Annual research spend has increased from ~£20M in
2013/14 to approximately ~£30M 2019/20.

We increased our income from all major funders and expanded the range of funding sources.
Funding from UK Research Councils (including MRC and ESRC) increased >2-fold (£49M in
REF2021 compared with £22.4M in REF2014). Competitive UK-based charity funding including
WT, CRUK and BHF increased from £14.6M to £30.8M. UK government funding, largely from
NIHR, increased >4 fold from £22M in REF2014 to £92.7M in REF2021. International funding from
EU and other funders increased nearly 3-fold from £4.9M to £14.4M, including notable grants from
the US National Institutes of Health (NIH) and ERC (see below).

Substantial further grant income was managed by our NHS partners. UoA2 contributes to the
success of BMS and UoB, which ranks in the top ten of HEIs receiving awards from MRC and WT
(REF5a). For the last six years, Bristol, North Somerset and South Gloucestershire (BNSSG)
Clinical Commissioning Group (CCG), which manages our NIHR community-based research, had
the highest RCF (based on total NIHR grant income) of any CCG in England. In 2018-19 NHS
BNSSG CCG region recruited to the second highest number of clinical research studies nationally
(55 studies). Together, our two acute NHS Trusts (University Hospitals Bristol and Weston Trust
and North Bristol Hospital Trust) were the fifth-highest patient recruiting centre nationally (2014-17)
with a 28% rise in patients enrolled into research trials over that period. These Trusts were the
highest-recruiting UK centre for the Oxford-AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine trial.

Two key drivers of the success of our research teams and themes (Section 1) are: the renewal and
expansion of large research programme and infrastructure grants, some of which are managed by
our NHS partners; leveraging of additional research funding. For example, the initial £10.4M
investment by the MRC in the first quinquennium (2013-18) of the MRC IEU attracted £11M in UoB
support as well as a further £22M in additional grant funding. The strategic grant to ALSPAC from
MRC and WT (2014-19) leveraged an additional £30M UoB grant income, and ALSPAC makes a
substantial contribution to grants of >£100M across multiple institutions. Our programme and



                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
infrastructure grants also generate matched funding for PhD students and lead to creation of new
core academic posts (Section 2).

Our key large infrastructure and programme grants include (* managed in local NHS Trust):
   •   MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit (IEU) (2013-18 and 2018-23), £23M per quinquennium.
   •   NIHR Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) (2017-22) £20.9M with £14M led by researchers
       within UoA2.
   •   NIHR Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care West (CLAHRC
       West) (2014-19); and NIHR Applied Research Collaboration West (ARC West) (2019-24)
       £8.9M per quinquennium with additional matched funding from local partners.
   •   MRC and WT: The Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children (ALSPAC) (2014-19
       and 2019-24) £8M per quinquennium.
   •   CRUK: Integrative Cancer Epidemiology Programme (2015-20) £4.15M (2020-25) £7.7M.
   •   NIHR-funded and UKCRC-registered Bristol Trials Centre for both UoA1 and UoA2 >£1M
       per year since 2014.
   •   NIHR School for Primary Care Research (2010-15 and 2015-21), with UoB part of the
       successful 2020 renewal application to take effect from 2021, £2.2M per quinquennium.
   •   NIHR School for Public Health Research (2012-17 and 2017-22) £2.5M per quinquennium.
   •   NIHR Health Protection Research Unit (HPRU) in Evaluation of Interventions (2014-20) and
       Behavioural Science and Evaluation (2020-25) £4M per quinquennium.
   •   MRC ConDuCT-II Hub (Collaboration and innovation in Difficult and Complex randomized
       controlled Trials In Invasive procedures) for Trials Methodology Research (2014-2019)
       £1.9M.
   •   NICE Technical Support Unit (2014-2020) >£1M.
   •   Health and Care Research Wales: UKCRC Public Health Research Centre of Excellence
       DECIPHer (Centre for the Development and Evaluation of Complex Interventions for Public
       Health Improvement) co-led by University of Cardiff and UoB (2009-19) £3.3M.
   •   National Joint Registry statistical support and analysis (2011-16 and 2016-12) >£1M per
       quinquennium.
   •   The Scar Free Foundation (originally the Healing Foundation) UK Cleft Gene Bank (2011-
       21 £2.3M.

New infrastructure established or gained during the REF2021 period include:
   •   UKRI UKPRP (Prevention Research Partnership) Consortium on Tackling Root Causes
       Upstream of Unhealthy Urban Development (TRUUD) (2019- 24) £6.4M.
   •   NIHR Public Health Research Programme – Public Health Intervention Responsive Studies
       Teams (PHIRST) (2020-25) £1.5M.
   •   HDR-UK South West Better Care Partnership (2020-23) £1.2M.
   •   Pfizer Center of Excellence for Epidemiology of Vaccine-Preventable Disease – Avon
       Community Acquired Pneumonia Study (Avon CAP) (2019-24) £4M.

Other key research grants secured during REF2014 and managed by UoB include:
   •   NIHR HTA: An RCT to establish the clinical and cost effectiveness of expectant
       management versus pre-operative imaging with Magnetic resonance
       cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) in patients with symptomatic gallstones undergoing
       laparoscopic cholecystectomy at low or moderate risk of common bile duct stones: The
       Sunflower Study (Blazeby) (2018-24) £2.8M.

                                                                                         Page 21
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
   •   NIHR HTA Extension: The By-Band Sleeve Study - Gastric bypass, adjustable gastric
       banding or sleeve gastrectomy surgery to treat severe and complex obesity: a multicentre
       randomized controlled trial (Blazeby) (2020-23) £1.3M.
   •   NIHR HTA: Investigating the effectiveness and cost effectiveness of using FITNET to treat
       paediatric Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS/ME) in the UK (Crawley) (2016-21) £1M.
   •   NIHR HTA: The ProtecT Trial - Evaluating the Effectiveness of Treatments for Clinically
       Localised Prostate Cancer (Donovan) (2014-21) £2.3M.
   •   NIHR: Global Health Research Group on health system responses to violence against
       women (Feder) (2018-21) £2.2M.
   •   John Templeton Foundation: Non-genetic inheritance in human development (Golding)
       (2018-20) £0.99M.
   •   Parkinson’s UK: A phase III trial of Rivastigmine to prevent falls in Parkinson's Disease:
       CHIEF PD (CHolinesterase Inhibitor to prEvent Falls in Parkinson’s Disease)
       (HendersonE) (2019-24) £2.5M.
   •   MRC: Excessive drinking and alcohol related harms in Adulthood: ALSPAC at 24
       (Hickman) (2015-19) £1.3M.
   •   Newton Fund (UKRI) MRC: Strategies to reduce the burden of antibiotic resistance in China
       (Lambert) (2019-22) £1.9M.
   •   ERC Advanced Grant: Effects of maternal gestational adiposity on fetal development and
       perinatal, postnatal and next generation health (DevelopObese) (Lawlor) (2015-21) €1.8M.
   •   US National Institutes of Health (NIH): Metabolomic and Epigenomic Mechanisms in
       Developmental Overnutrition (Lawlor) (NIH R01) (2014-21) $US22.3M.
   •   BHF: Accelerator Award (Lawlor) (2019-24) £1M.
   •   MRC: Cohorts as Platforms for Mental Health research (CaP:MH) (Macleod) (2018-21)
       £1.5M.
   •   CRUK: Evaluating population-based screening for localised prostate cancer in the United
       Kingdom: the CAP (Comparison Arm for ProtecT) study (Martin) (Project Grant) (2013-17)
       £1.2M.
   •   ESRC: Bristol BioResource Laboratories – Genotyping UK Millennium Cohort Study (Ring)
       (2017-18) £1M.
   •   NIH/National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA): Consortium to improve
       OutcoMes in HIV/Aids, Alcohol, Aging & multi-Substance (COMpAAAS) (Sterne, May)
       US$2.2M.

We have an extensive portfolio of NIHR grants managed by local NHS partners. Since 2014 UoA2
researchers have been awarded >£22M in funding managed at BNSSG CCG and £21M at our two
acute NHS Trusts (excluding the NIHR Bristol BRC and CLAHRC/ARC West). Major NIHR grants
(£1M+) include:
   •   Health Services and Delivery Research (HS&DR): 3D Improving the management of
       patients with multimorbidity in general practice (Salisbury) (2014-17) £1.8M.
   •   HTA: BEE Best Emollient for Eczema: Pragmatic, primary care, multicentre, individually
       randomized superiority trial of four emollients in children with eczema, with internal pilot and
       nested qualitative study (Ridd) (2017-20) £1.4M.
   •   HTA: BIG ROMIO Randomized Oesophagectomy: Minimally Invasive or Open: Definitive
       Trial (Metcalfe, UoA1) (2015-22) £2.1M.
   •   HTA: CEDAR Children’s drops for ear pain in acute otitis media: the CEDAR randomized
       controlled trial (Hay) (2015-18) £1M.


                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
   •   HTA: CHICO A clinical effectiveness investigation of a multi-faceted intervention
       (incorporating a prognostic algorithm) to improve management of antibiotics for CHIldren
       presenting to primary care with acute COugh and respiratory tract infection: an efficient
       cluster RCT informed by a feasibility (Blair) (2018-22) £1M.
   •   Programme Grants for Applied Research (PGfAR): EPIToPe Evaluating the Population
       Impact of Hepatitis C Direct Acting Antiviral Treatment as Prevention for People Who Inject
       Drugs (Hickman) (2018-23) £2.8M.
   •   HTA: H4RT The High-volume Haemodiafiltration vs. High-flux Haemodialysis Registry Trial
       (Caskey) (2017-24) £1.8M.
   •   HS&DR: IMPPP Improving Medicines use in People with Polypharmacy in Primary Care
       (Payne) (2018-22) £1.9M.
   •   HTA: INFORM Infection after total joint replacement (Blom) (2014-20) £2.1M.
   •   PGfAR: INTERACT Integrated therapist and online CBT for depression in primary care
       (Wiles, Kessler) (2016-22) £2.5M.
   •   HTA: PrepareFKC The Prepare Multi-Morbid Older People for End-stage Kidney Disease
       Trial (Caskey) (2017-23) £2.8M.
   •   HTA: RADICAL Radiofrequency denervation for chronic and moderate to severe low back
       pain (Wylde) (2020-24) £1.8M.
   •   PGfAR: REPROVIDE Reaching Everyone Programme of Research On Violence in diverse
       Domestic Environments (Feder) (2016-22) £2.6M.
   •   HTA: REST Immediate oral, immediate topical or delayed oral antibiotics for acute otitis
       media with discharge (the Runny Ear Study) (Hay) (2018-20) £0.96M.
   •   PGfAR: RESTORE Improving patients experience and outcome of total joint replacement
       (Blom, Wylde) (2008-14) £2.0M.
   •   HTA: SISMIC Microstructural scaffold insertion following microfracture for chondral knee
       defects (Whitehouse) (2019-24) £1.3M.
   •   PGfAR: STAR Chronic pain after total knee replacement: Better post-operative prevention
       and management (Gooberman-Hill) (2015-20) £2.0M.
   •   HTA: STRATAA multicentre double-blind placebo-controlled randomized trial of SerTRaline
       for AnxieTy in adults with a diagnosis of Autism (Rai) (2019-23) £1.2M.

We increased funding from industry 4-fold to £1.8M in the REF2021 period. Partnerships with
industry include modelling novel interventions to prevent HCV (Gilead Sciences), network meta-
analyses of new interventions (Pfizer), studies of vaccine effectiveness (GSK), developing MR-
Base for use by discovery scientists (GSK, Biogen), and establishing a centre of excellence for
epidemiological evidence on vaccine-preventable infectious diseases (Pfizer). Relton has been
appointed to a new role of Faculty Innovation and Enterprise Director to co-produce a strategy for
industry research funding and enhance impact through multiple modes of translation in the Faculty
of Health Sciences.

3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
UoA2 has benefited from UoB investment (REF5a) in High Performance Computing (two new HPC
clusters in this UoA; 341x16-core nodes and 120x24+-core nodes), a research data storage facility
for bulk data storage, the data.bris repository for data-sharing, a research software engineering
team, data science support through the Jean Golding Institute and the provision of secure digital
infrastructure to support storage and analysis of confidential data.




                                                                                          Page 23
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
The Bristol Bioresource Laboratories (BBL) provide biological sample processing and storage
service, genotyping and functional assay support to UoA2 for the benefit of researchers, other
University groups and external parties. BBL is licenced by the Human Tissue Authority and is
accredited to the Quality Management System Standard ISO9001. BBL received substantial
investment in REF2014; it currently employs 16.6FTE staff with funding drawn from multiple
sources. During REF2021 two BBL facilities were established: an Illumina Facility and an NMR
Metabolomics Facility (co-located with NMR facilities in Chemistry), both generating data for a wide
range of projects. Further investments in BBL included: increased research infrastructure and
capacity with investment in a Tecan robot for DNA processing (£194K); upgraded to an NMR
Prodigy probe to enhance use of the NMR Facility and allow processing of smaller volume samples
(£170K); and purchased Fluidigm Juno System (£80K) with Biomark enhancement (£100K). BBL
increased our biobanking facilities manging resources for 18 studies (from 10 in 2014) and now
hold >2 million samples that are in active use by scientists in Bristol, nationally and internationally.

Professional services support, from executive assistants (EAs) and programme managers working
directly with our research teams as well as central services (REF5a), is a critical infrastructure for
UoA2 researchers. Each senior academic receives dedicated part-time support from an EA. We
have expanded our office space for PHS researchers during the REF2021 period with an additional
building (an extra 1200 sqm) of mixed office, meeting and teaching space.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Our open and collaborative research environment, and distinctive contribution to the international
research ecosystem, is reflected in our outputs and collaborative grants. Overall, 92% of our
submitted outputs involved co-authors from other institutions, and 44% involved international co-
authors. Industry co-authors were included on 7% of publications. From 2015-2019 UoA2
researchers contributed to >3,500 publications with an average 27.7 citations per publication and
29% in the top 10% most cited publications worldwide.

The figure shows the location of co-authors on submitted UoA2 outputs.




                                                                                               Page 24
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
4.1 Collaborations, networks and partnerships

Academic collaborations
Our major research centres and programmes each have a wide range of national and international
collaborations, as illustrated by these examples.

Life course epidemiology: ObesityDevelop (Lawlor), an ERC Advanced Grant that combines data
from up to 100,000 participants from nine cohorts and two consortia to study effects of maternal
adiposity; LifeCycle (Lawlor), a Europe-wide network of >40 cohort studies with data from
>250,000 European children and their parents; Longitools (Timpson), a collaboration of 25 EU
cohorts comprising 11 million individuals studying the interactions between the environment,
lifestyle and health, and the risks of cardiometabolic diseases.

Genetics: GoDMC, the genetics of DNA methylation consortium (Relton) comprising more than 50
academic groups globally; BIOMAP (Paternoster), a 12 country EU-funded collaborative network
for atopic dermatitis and psoriasis. The Within Families Consortium is an international collaboration
of 38 studies with family data comprising of up to 200,000 genotyped siblings, and around 100,000
genotyped parent-offspring trios and involving 116 researchers (Davies).

Mental health: An international consortium of cohorts to study the intergenerational transmission of
mental health problems (MHINT) supported by an ERC Starter Grant (Pearson); membership of
the US National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH)-funded Latin America Treatment and Innovation
Network in Mental Health (Peters).

Infection: the ART Cohort Collaboration (Sterne) combines data from 19 HIV cohort studies in
Europe and North America and has strong links with other major collaborations in North America,
Europe and Southern Africa, by NIH/NIAAA award (Sterne, May); the HIV Modelling Consortium
(Vickerman), which coordinates HIV modelling to inform programmatic policy in the context of sub-
Saharan Africa; the International ZIKAction Consortium (Ades), which seeks to understand and
confront the ZIKA virus epidemic and reinforce regional preparedness for other emerging infectious
diseases in South and Central America.

Applied Health: Global INFORM collaboration of centres from 12 countries investigating infected
joint replacements, which occur in 1 in 100 of the >160,000 joint replacements in the UK annually
(Blom, Whitehouse); NIHR Global Health Research Group developing and testing gender-
violence interventions in health care settings in Nepal, Sri Lanka, Palestine and Brazil (Feder).

COVID-19: ALSPAC is a COVID-19 National Core Study (Timpson) and, alongside Generation
Scotland, leads the WT Longitudinal Population Studies COVID group, which deployed
questionnaires to assess the impact of the pandemic across multiple studies; UoB (Boyd,
Macleod, Sterne, Timpson) leads the Longitudinal Linkage Collaboration, a key component of the
Longitudinal Health and Wellbeing COVID-19 National Core Study (co-lead, Sterne). UoB (Sterne)
led WHO-coordinated meta-analyses establishing clinical benefit of corticosteroids in critically ill
COVID-19 patients.




                                                                                            Page 25
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Networks
We are members of the: GW4 Alliance (REF5a), with which we share resources and expertise;
HDR-UK, a national network to advance health data science to which we bring extensive data
linkage and analytics expertise (Sterne, Director of HDR UK South West); Alan Turing Institute, the
UK's national institute for data science and artificial intelligence (Fellows Gaunt, Davis); UK
network of 20 NIHR BRCs; UK network of 15 NIHR ARCs; UK-wide group of MRC Units; NIHR
networks including our leadership roles in two NIHR Schools and HPRUs (where we are leading on
behavioural science network). We cultivate and maintain extensive internal cross-disciplinary
networks within UoB through URIs and SRIs (REF5a).

Partnerships
We work closely with numerous stakeholder groups to ensure the translation of our research
endeavour into impactful gain for society and the economy. These include academic and other
research organisations, government agencies, industry, special interest groups, national
representative and advisory groups, professional groups and their representative bodies,
consumer and patient groups, non-Governmental organisations and community groups.

As illustrative examples, we were instrumental in establishing Bristol Health Partners and since
2020 the Bristol Academic Health Science Centre, a formal academic health sciences partnership
between the Universities, NHS Trusts and Bristol City Council providing a collaborative
environment for integrating research, innovation, clinical practice and education to improve local
public health and healthcare delivery in a population health context. Local academics,
commissioners, clinicians, and members of the public have formed ‘Heath Integration Teams’
(HITs) to develop NHS-relevant research programmes and service improvements. HITs led by this
UoA include: respiratory tract infections (Hay); Bristol bones and joints (Clark, Blom); sexual
health (Horner); improving care in self-harm (Mars, Biddle); Drugs and alcohol (Thomas); Bristol
immunisation group (Finn); Supporting Healthy Inclusive Neighbourhood Environments (Audrey);
perinatal mental health (Evans); Avoiding hospital admissions (Purdy); Psychosis (Sullivan);
Adverse childhood experiences (Macleod), and Psychological therapies in primary care (Wiles).

Our research led to industry partnerships and investment in our informatics and data analytics
platforms to enhance causal evidence for drug discovery decision making. The data analysis tools
(e.g., MR-Base, OpenGWAS, EpiGRaphDB; Gaunt, Hemani) are freely available and openly
accessible, allowing scientists all over the world to benefit from our expertise (Section 4). For
example, OpenGWAS database (126 billion genetic associations from 34,513 GWAS datasets)
attracting international use by a wide range of audiences (~1000 unique users/month from more
than 30 different countries). These tools have been developed and tailored in response to industry
priorities.

We secured direct investment from GSK, Biogen and a partnership with Oracle to develop and
provide cloud-based GWAS data resources and have partnered with Takeda, Pfizer and Sanofi in
research projects.

Partnerships with social enterprise include IRISi, established to promote and improve the
healthcare response to gender-based violence and Evidence to Impact, a not-for profit University-
owned company that aims to maximise the impact of evidence-based public health interventions.




                                                                                          Page 26
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
4.2 Exemplars of interdisciplinary research
Our approach to randomized trials is inherently interdisciplinary: trials often begin with qualitative
work to ensure that recruitment targets are feasible. The QuinteT team (Donovan, Avery, Jepson,
Rooshenas, Wade) has pioneered qualitative approaches to optimise recruitment and
participation in RCTs and is currently being used in 25 trials led from UoB and elsewhere. Trials
are led by clinicians in conjunction with dedicated trialists and statisticians (Lane, Metcalfe (UoA1),
MacNeill, Peters, Rogers) and including associated economic evaluation (Hollingworth, Noble,
Coast). For example, the NIHR-funded Prepare for Kidney Care Trial, which includes the QuinteT
intervention (Donovan, Rooshenas), clinical (Caskey, Salisbury), trialist (Lane), statistical
(MacNeill), epidemiological (Ben-Shlomo), economic (Coast) and ethical (Huxtable, UoA18)
input as well as PPIE co-investigators. This is the case for all our large trials (Section 3).

Our work on antimicrobial resistance (AMR) involves multiple disciplines in human and veterinary
healthcare and engineering including AMR stewardship in Primary Care (Hay). Lambert has been
appointed a Global Health Challenge Leader by UK Research and Innovation (UKRI), leads the
MRC National PhD Training Programme in antimicrobial resistance research, and in 2015 was
appointed as the ESRC Research Champion for AMR.

Close links with colleagues in the Faculty of Engineering have grown through the SPHERE
initiative (a Sensor Platform for Healthcare in a Residential Environment), which has developed
technologies for monitoring activities of daily living relevant to health. In addition, >20 UoA2
researchers make a major contribution to EPSRC-funded doctoral training programmes in Digital
Health and Care and Statistics, hosting students undertaking interdisciplinary projects.

Our research response to the COVID-19 pandemic exemplifies our interdisciplinary research
environment. We supported evaluation of new vaccines (Finn), including the Oxford-AstraZeneca
COVID-19 vaccine Phase III trial. We have supported treatment trials in UK and internationally
(Blencowe, Sterne), evaluated new antibody tests in collaboration with PHE (Jones), and
provided behavioural science expertise to PHE studies on effectiveness of mitigations measures
(Yardley). We collaborated with WHO and trial investigators around the world to produce a
prospective meta-analysis of the effect of corticosteroids on critically ill patients with COVID-19,
and are conducting similar work on anti-IL-6 agents and anticoagulants (Sterne, Higgins,
Savović). Our researchers contributed to the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE),
Scientific Pandemic Insights Group on Behaviours (SPI-B) (Yardley) and Scientific Pandemic
Influenza Group on Modelling (SPI-M) (Brooks-Pollock, UoA6). We developed the first UK-
specific model of COVID-19 mitigation in universities and made the code available to other
institutions (Brooks-Pollock, UoA6). We lead the UoB Scientific Advisory Group for COVID-19
and city-wide UKRI/NIHR-funded Urgent Public Health COVID-19 Mapping and Mitigation in
Schools (CoMMinS) study (Relton).

4.3 Engaging the public and diverse communities
Engagement activities involve a broad array of media including press and broadcast, interactive
exhibitions and public lectures and the production of literature and web-based information. Many
researchers contribute to TV and radio debate of current research news, give media interviews and
public talks and lectures, and press releases result in coverage across the world. Activities to
engage general audience include, for example, ‘George Davey Smith: The Life Scientific’, BBC
Radio 4. Accolades in public engagement include the “Rising Star in Public Engagement” from
CRUK (2017) (Wade).

                                                                                              Page 27
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
We worked closely with Bristol’s ‘We The Curious’ science centre on several projects, including
developing a game based on causal networks of human health. ALSPAC has a permanent fixture
in We The Curious on the health of the city, representing one of its many strong links with the
Bristol public. We have a regular presence at regional and national Science Festivals. For
example, we organise a ‘Good Grief’ festival (Selman), co-created with local and national partner
organisations, including Cruse Bereavement Care, St Peter’s Hospice, Creative Youth Network
and Museums and Art Galleries in the city. The event was accessed by >12,000 people (c.25%
international audience) and achieved widespread media coverage with a reach of 1.2 billion
through >70 news articles across UK and international press and broadcast media.

Supported by the Health Foundation, we assisted Public Health Wales, the Welsh Government and
volunteer organisations to understand community-level response to the COVID-19 pandemic using
untapped digital and open data (Davis). This resulted in a widely accessed open-source visual
analysis tool.

Based on our study of the experiences of Somali families bringing up children with autism in Bristol
(Redwood), ARC West co-produced films in English and Somali, highlighting experiences of
accessing services and potential solutions to the barriers Somali families face in the UK. Films are
publicly available on YouTube and have been accessed >200,000 times. They are used in medical
curricula, and in training for professionals in health, social care and education. NIHR identified it as
an exemplar for diversity in community engagement, and it was cited in a report by UN High
Commissioner for Refugees.

4.4 Indicators of influence
As illustrated below, members of this UoA make numerous contributions to the sustainability of the
discipline and in shaping its strategic direction.

Chairing of research council funding panels or similar national or international funding
bodies
   •   Academy of Medical Sciences Sectional Committee Six (Peters),
   •   CRUK, Population Research Committee (Epidemiology and Methodology Expert Review
       Panel) (Martin)
   •   Health and Care Research Wales (HCRW) Senior Research Leaders Selection Panel
       (Peters)
   •   HCRW Health Research Grants/Fellowships Scientific Board (Peters)
   •   Health Research Board in Ireland, Definitive Intervention and Feasibility Awards Expert
       Panel (Peters)
   •   Joint MRC, ESRC, WT Review of National Population Cohort Studies (Lawlor)
   •   Marie Curie Research Funding Committee (Peters)
   •   MRC Cohort Strategy & Review Panel (Lawlor)
   •   MRC Economic Impact Panel (Peters)
   •   MRC PHIND Deputy Chair (Campbell)
   •   MRC Population Health Strategy Group (Lawlor)
   •   MRC/NIHR Methodology Research Programme Advisory Group (Peters)
   •   MRC-NIHR Board on Disease Clustering in Multimorbidity co-Chair (Salisbury)
   •   MRC-NIHR Methodology Research Programme Panel (Peters)
   •   MRC-NIHR Trials Methodology Research Partnership Outcomes Working Group (Avery)
   •   NIHR Doctoral Research Funding Panel Deputy Chair (Crawley)

                                                                                               Page 28
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
   •   NIHR Pre-doctoral Fellowship Selection Committee (Peters)
   •   NIHR Research Design Service Panel (Peters)
   •   NIHR Research for Patient Benefit Southwest (Blom)
   •   Research Council of Norway Funding Panel (Fraser)
   •   Royal College of General Practitioners, Scientific Foundation Board (Salisbury)
   •   Royal Osteoporosis Society research grants committee (Tobias)
   •   WT Basic Science Interview Committee (Relton)

Membership of research councils, national or international funding bodies
In the review period, UoA2 staff were members of >30 national/international funding bodies,
including:
   •   Academy of Medical Sciences (Gunnell, Davey Smith, Peters)
   •   American Foundation for Suicide Prevention's Grant Programme (Gunnell)
   •   Australian National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) Special Initiative in
       Mental Health Panel (Caldwell)
   •   BHF (Lawlor, Fraser)
   •   CRUK, Population Research Committee (Martin)
   •   Diabetes UK (Lawlor, Fraser)
   •   ERC (Lawlor)
   •   ESRC COVID-19 Panel (Coast)
   •   Marie Curie Research Funding Committee (Coast)
   •   MRC Population & Systems Medicine Board (Lawlor, Gaunt, Blazeby, Campbell, Davey
       Smith, Fraser) Methodology Panel (Tilling); Global Health Group (Davey Smith)
   •   NIHR (Blazeby, Blencowe, Campbell, Coast, de Vocht, Donovan, Hay, Higgins,
       Hollingworth, Lawlor, Martin, Northstone, Peters, Ridd, Salisbury, Turner, Welton,
       Whitehouse, Wiles, Wylde)
   •   Parkinson’s UK (HendersonE)
   •   Public Health Foundation of India-Wellcome Programme (Davey Smith)
   •   Research Council for Health of the Academy of Finland (Evans, Northstone, Tobias,
       Richmond)
   •   Research Council of Norway (Relton, Coast, Fraser, Howe, Timpson, Rodriguez),
   •   Royal Society Newton Advanced Fellowships Panel (Davey Smith)
   •   Swedish Research Council (Evans)
   •   UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship scheme (Relton, Turner)
   •   Versus Arthritis (Blom, Judge, Gooberman-Hill, Wylde)
   •   WT Basic Science Interview Committee / Expert Review Group / Science Panel (Relton,
       Coast, Davey Smith, Timpson)
   •   World Cancer Research Fund (Martin)
   •   CRUK Clinical Trials Awards and Advisory Committee (Blazeby)
   •   NIHR Public Health Research Panel Member (Kipping, Hickman, Campbell, de Vocht)
   •   NIHR Programme Grants for Applied Research (PGfAR) sub-committee panel member
       (Hickman)

Membership of National Clinical and Health Policy Guideline Groups
   •   NICE Atopic Eczema in Children update 2016 (Purdy)
   •   NICE Cancer Drugs Fund reappraisals committee (Welton)
   •   NICE Domestic Violence and Abuse Guidelines (Feder)

                                                                                          Page 29
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
   •   NICE Guideline Development Group for ‘Managing Common Infections’ (Hay)
   •   NICE Guideline Development Group for Antimicrobial Stewardship (Hay, Chair)
   •   NICE Multimorbidity Guideline (NG56) (Payne)
   •   NICE Public Health A committee (Yardley)
   •   NICE Public Health Advisory Committee F (Macleod, Vice Chair)
   •   NICE Quality Standards Advisory Committee (QSAC) on effective antimicrobial stewardship
       (Hay)
   •   NICE Service Guidance Methods Expert Working Group (Welton)
   •   NICE Technology appraisals committee B, ) including representing the committee at appeal
       for pirfenidone (TA504) (Welton)
   •   NICE Total hip replacement and resurfacing arthroplasty for end-stage arthritis of the hip
       paediatric lead on NICE guidance committee CG37 (Fleming)

Membership of national or international research or health strategy panels
   •   Advance HE UKRI ED&I Review, External Advisory Group (Gooberman-Hill)
   •   Alzheimer's Society Care, Implementation and Public Health Grant Advisory Board (Ben-
       Shlomo)
   •   Blueprint Group, Evaluation of Vaccines and Therapeutics for Emerging Diseases (Sterne)
   •   British Orthopaedic Association Research Committee (Whitehouse)
   •   British Hip Society Research Committee (Whitehouse)
   •   Cleft and Craniofacial Conditions, Clinical Studies Group (Wren)
   •   Cochrane Scientific Committee (Higgins)
   •   Danish Cancer Research Centre, Scientific Advisory Board (Relton)
   •   European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Scientific Advisory Committee, Research Strategy
       Review (Relton)
   •   European Monitoring Centre on Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA) Scientific Board
       (Hickman)
   •   European Federation of Orthopaedics and Traumatology Basic Science Task Force
       (Whitehouse)
   •   Health Foundation Advisory Panels; Social and Economic Value of Health in a Place (Howe);
       Inquiry into Young People’s Future Health Prospects (Campbell)
   •   National Chlamydia Screening Programme Expert Review Panel (Horner)
   •   Norwegian Primary Care Research Network International Advisory Board (Hay)
   •   Parkinson’s UK Cohort Studies Council (Ben-Shlomo)
   •   Public Health, Health Services and Primary Care Panel, REF2014 (Donovan, Peters)
   •   Research Foundation of Flanders (Blom)
   •   Royal Osteoporosis Society Clinical and Scientific Committee (Clark)
   •   Scar Free Foundation Research Council (Wren)
   •   Song-Kids Life Participation Expert Working Group (Hamilton)
   •   UK National Parkinson's Portfolio Committee (HendersonE)
   •   UNICEF Advisor (Blair)
   •   Versus Arthritis Musculoskeletal Research Advisory Group (Clark)
   •   WHO NIHR Global Health Research Group, Prevalence, Quality of Life, Economic and
       Societal Impact of Arthritis in Tanzania, External Advisory Group (Gooberman-Hill)
   •   WHO Cost-Effectiveness of Interventions to Prevent Suicide, Expert Advisory Panel, Suicide
       in Humanitarian Settings Review, Advisory Group and World Suicide Report, Working Group
       (Gunnell)


                                                                                        Page 30
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Leading positions in professional subject associations or learned societies
   •   Association of Breast Surgery and British Association of Plastic, Reconstructive and
       Aesthetic Surgeons, joint guidelines on biological and synthetic mesh assisted breast
       reconstruction procedures (Potter)
   •   BASHH Bacterial Specialist Interest Group (BSIG), Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI)
       national guidelines (Horner)
   •   British Geriatric Society Falls and Bone Health Section, Chair, (Gregson)
   •   Child Speech Committee of the International Association of Communication Sciences and
       Disorders, Chair (Wren)
   •   Child Speech Disorder Research Network, Chair (Wren)
   •   European Orthopaedic Research Society, President (Blom)
   •   International Society for the study and prevention of Perinatal Infant Death (ISPID) Chair
       (Blair)
   •   National UK NHS Cleft Development Group (Sandy)
   •   Royal College of Physicians Falls and Fragility Fracture Audit Programme, Scientific
       Committee Chair (Gregson)
   •   Royal Pharmaceutical Society Polypharmacy guidance (Payne)
   •   UK Renal Registry, Medical Director (Caskey)
   •   UK National Osteoporosis Guideline Group (Gregson, Chair)
   •   Royal College of Surgeons Oesophago-Gastric Surgery Research, Associate Subspecialty
       Lead (Blencowe)
   •   Royal College of General Practitioners Research Paper of the Year Awards Panel
       (Salisbury, Chair)

Positions in professional subject associations or learned societies
   •   Academy of Medical Sciences (AMS) Methods of Evaluating Evidence Working Group
       (Lawlor)
   •   Association of Social Anthropologists of the UK and the Commonwealth Networks Officer
       (Gooberman-Hill)
   •   Association of Surgeons in Training National Research Collaborative Committee
       (Blencowe)
   •   British Geriatrics Society Movement Disorders, Section Chair 2017-2019 (HendersonE)
   •   British Obesity and Metabolic Surgery Society, Research Lead for Dietetics (Coulman)
   •   CFS/ME Research Collaborative (CMRC) (Crawley, Deputy Chair)
   •   British Society for Rheumatology Conference Committee (Clark)
   •   European Association of Social Anthropologists Treasurer and Trustee (Gooberman-Hill)
   •   European Federation of National Associations of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, Board of
       the Speciality Societies, Orthopaedics Committee (Blom)
   •   European Federation of National Associations of Orthopaedics and Traumatology
       Education Committee (Blom, Whitehouse)
   •   Galton Institute Council (Relton)
   •   Healthcare Quality Improvement Partnership Methodological Advisory Group (Blom)
   •   International Association of Communication Sciences and Disorders Board (Wren)
   •   International Expert Panel for Multilingual Children's Speech (Wren)
   •   International Health Economics Association (iHEA) Executive Board (Coast)
   •   International Network on Hepatitis among Substance Users (INHSU), Executive member
       (Hickman)

                                                                                         Page 31
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
   •   International Society of Nephrology, Executive Committee, Secretary/ Treasurer (Caskey)
   •   Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research, Spinoza Prize Selection Committee
       (Davey Smith)
   •   Royal Anthropological Institute, Council and Trustee (Gooberman-Hill)
   •   Royal College of General Practitioners Kidney Care Network (Horwood)
   •   Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists Advisor (Wren)
   •   Society for Research Synthesis Methodology, Trustee (Higgins)
   •   Society for Study of Addiction (SSA) Trustee (Hickman)
   •   UK and Ireland Occupational and Environmental Exposures Society, Steering Committee
       (TaylorC)
   •   Vascular Society of Great Britain and Ireland Research Committee, Associate Surgical
       Specialty Lead (Ambler)

Editorial / Associate editorial positions
Editorial positions have been held by the staff returned in this UoA (since REF2014) with the
following scientific journals: Addiction, Biometrical Journal, British Journal of Health Psychology,
British Journal of Urology International, BioMed Central (BMC) Biotechnology, BMC Family
Practice, BMC Medicine, BMC Medical Research Methodology, BMC Musculoskeletal Disorders,
BMC Public Health, BMJ Paediatrics Open, Child Abuse Review, Clinical Trials, Cochrane
Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions, Diabetologia, European Journal of Clinical
Investigation, Folia Phoniatrica et Logopedica, Hip International, International Journal of
Epidemiology, Journal of Bone and Mineral Research (JBMR-Plus), Journal of the Royal Statistical
Society Series A (JRSS A), Longitudinal and Life Course Studies, Nature Reviews Cardiology,
Nicotine and Tobacco Research, Obesity, PLoS Genetics, PLoS Medicine, Scientific Reports,
Trials, Medical Decision Making, Medical Decision Making Policy & Practice, Research Synthesis
Methods, Rheumatology, Social Science & Medicine, Therapeutic Advances in Chronic Diseases.

Academic awards and other honours received
In recognition of her outstanding contribution to health Deborah Lawlor was awarded a
Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (CBE) (2017). Among several
Fellowships and awards, we also have five Officers of the Most Excellent Order of the British
Empire (OBEs) (Donovan, Feder, Golding [emerita], SharpD, Yardley), one Fellow of the Royal
Society (Davey Smith), one Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh (Davey Smith), eight
Fellows of the Academy of Medical Sciences (Blazeby, Blom, Davey Smith, Donovan, Lawlor,
Golding [emerita], Gunnell, Peters), two Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences (Campbell,
Donovan), ten NIHR Senior Investigator Awards (Blazeby, Blom, Campbell, Hay, Higgins,
Lawlor, Salisbury, Sterne, Hickman, Ness and emeriti Donovan, Gunnell and Peters), and an
NIHR Research Professor (Hay). Davey Smith has been awarded the International
Epidemiological Association Richard Doll Prize (2017), a Lifetime Achievement Award from
Vereniging voor Epidemiologie (Netherlands Epidemiological Society) (2019), is an elected Foreign
Member of the USA National Academy of Medicine and of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts
and Sciences (KNAW), and the recipient of an Honorary DSc from the University of Glasgow and
Erasmus University, Rotterdam.




                                                                                            Page 32
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Government advisory roles and membership/input into all-party parliamentary groups
(APPG)
UoA2 researchers contributed to multiple advisory committees including:
   •   APPG on Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder (Zuccolo)
   •   APPGs on Suicide and self-harm prevention (Biddle, Gunnell) and Social media and
       young people's mental health and wellbeing (Biddle, Davis)
   •   Department of Health Suicide Prevention Strategy Advisory Group & Task and Finish
       Group on Suicide Prevention During COVID-19 (Gunnell)
   •   Department of Health Policy Research COVID-19 Recovery Programme (Donovan,
       Hollingworth)
   •   Expert Advisory Panel, Healthcare Quality Improvement Partnership (HQIP) on
       Specification for National Confidential Inquiry into Suicide and Homicide (Gunnell)
   •   Government Advisory Committee on Antimicrobial Prescribing, Resistance and Healthcare
       Associated Infections (Hay)
   •   Joint Committee of Vaccination and Immunisation (Finn, Christensen)
   •   Maternal and Infant Health Team, Improving Health and Wellbeing Division, Scottish
       Government (Blair)
   •   Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) Expert Advisory Group on
       Isotretinoin (Gunnell)
   •   National Strategic Group on Viral Hepatitis (Hickman, Vickerman)
   •   Under 5s Expert Working Group for UK Chief Medical Officers’ Physical Activity Guidelines
       (Kipping)

Directorships and senior NHS Trust roles
Our staff fulfil a range of senior advisory roles in local NHS Trusts. Additional charitable and non-
executive roles include Samaritans Trustee (Gunnell), Lifeskills Charity, Board Director, Bristol
(Blair), ChildSpeech Ltd Director (Wren), University Hospitals Bristol and Weston NHS Foundation
Trust Appointed Governor (Blom, Peters), Member, Bristol Health Partners Executive Group
(Peters).

Honorary Chairs
Honorary positions bestowed include: Honorary Chair in Primary Care, University of Dundee
(Macleod), Honorary Faculty, Centre for Cancer Epidemiology, Tata Memorial Centre, Mumbai
India (Relton, Davey Smith), Honorary Professor of Health Sciences, Faculty of Health Studies,
University of Bradford, UK (Lawlor), Honorary Professor of Epidemiology, The Robinson Institute,
University of Adelaide, Australia (Lawlor), Honorary Professor of Public Health, University of New
South Wales Sydney, Australia (Hickman), Honorary Professor, School of Population and Global
Health, University of Melbourne, Australia (Campbell).

Visiting Professorship (VP)
VP in Epidemiology, Department of Non-Communicable Disease Epidemiology, London School of
Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, UK (Lawlor); VP in Epidemiology, Division of Women’s Health,
School of Medicine, Kings College London, UK (Lawlor); VP Faculty of Medical Sciences,
University of Trento (Davis); VP University of Groningen (Davey Smith); VP in Residence,
University of California-Los Angeles (UCLA) Fielding School of Public Health (Davey Smith); VP in
Epidemiology, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, USA (Lawlor); VP of Medicine, Duke
University, USA (Donovan); Adjunct Faculty with Public Health Foundation of India (Davey
Smith).

                                                                                            Page 33
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Other advisory roles
Many of our academics have contributed to professorial promotion assessments in highly
esteemed institutions around the globe including Oxford University, Harvard T.H. Chan School of
Public Health, Columbia University, Erasmus MC Rotterdam and Johns Hopkins University.

Highly cited researchers
Highly Cited Researchers 2014-2020; recognising researchers that rank in the top one per cent
most cited works in their field: Ades, Bowden, Davey Smith, Gaunt, Gunnell, Hickman, Higgins,
Lawlor, Ness, Relton, Ring, Sterne, Tilling, Timpson.




                                                                                         Page 34
