Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University College London (UCL)

 Unit of Assessment: 2 (Public Health, Health Services and Primary Care)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview: context and structure
 The overarching aim of UCL’s research in public health, health services, and primary care is to
 transform global well-being and prosperity by addressing major challenges in patient and
 population health and reducing inequalities across the globe. The 236 (208.1 FTE) staff in this
 Unit of Assessment (UoA) are scientists and clinicians working across four major themes
 (lifecourse, public health and health services; big data and advanced analytics; clinical trials; and
 global health) who work closely with the NHS, Public Health England (PHE), industry, and the
 third sector. This is an environment designed to ensure vitality, future sustainability and breadth,
 strength and depth in undertaking world-leading population health research. We realise our
 researchers’ full potential and maximise our impact by creating and sustaining a physical
 environment and research culture that foster and actively promote interdisciplinarity,
 collaboration, enterprise, impact for society and the economy, the development of early scientific
 careers, and equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) in everything we do. This is exemplified by:

    •   Creation of a positive and diverse research culture: our staff work within institutes
        that embed strong EDI principles, evidenced by two gold, two silver, and three bronze
        Athena SWAN awards, led by a dedicated unit-wide senior leadership role (Vice Dean for
        EDI).
    •   Major investment in outstanding facilities and infrastructure: significant investment
        in cohort curation, including the Bloomsbury Centre for Clinical Phenotyping (£2M), and
        in data science, establishing the UCL Data Safe Haven (£3.4M) and refurbishing the
        Institute of Health Informatics (£2.9M).
    •   Innovation and strategic development: the UCL Global Business School for Health
        (2020) and UCL Health of the Public (2019) were established, and new institutes created,
        including the Institute for Clinical Trials and Methodology (2013), Institute for Global
        Health (2013), and Institute of Health Informatics (2014).
    •   Growth in research quality and achievements: since 2014, more than 9,500 peer-
        reviewed research papers have been published receiving >236,000 citations with over
        470 ‘highly cited articles’ (top 1% in their field). Seventeen UoA2 researchers are Web of
        Science Highly Cited Researchers. UCL is now ranked 7th in the world and 2nd in the UK
        for Public Health Research (Shanghai Global Ranking of Academic Subjects 2020) and
        7th in the world (1st in the UK) for Digital Health Publications (HealthXL’s Digital Health
        Evidence Report 2019); as evidence of our achievements, 18 UoA2-returned staff are
        Fellows of the Academy of Medical Sciences, including its President, Professor Dame
        Anne Johnson.
    •   Growth in research income: since August 2013, new research awards totalling £350M
        have been secured. Research income (based on expenditure, as reported in REF4b)
        totalled £340M, representing >£233K income per FTE per annum compared with £131K
        in REF2014.
    •   Major investment in training and early careers: 20% of staff submitted are Early
        Career Researchers, testifying to our vitality, and the prioritisation of early careers
        activity. We have an extremely vibrant doctoral programme, with 284 doctoral awards
        made during the census period (up from 120 in REF2014).
    •   External collaborations and Team Science: our staff undertake significant external
        collaboration spanning many specialties and nearly all global regions, as evidenced by
        57% of all published papers in the submission period having a co-author from a non-UK
        institution. Our environment fosters and actively promotes interdisciplinarity: 76% of staff
        in this submission are involved in interdisciplinary collaborations.
    •   Research with policy impact: we submit 10 impact statements (§1.5), and our policy
        impact is exemplified by our contribution to the COVID-19 response, including through


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        staff serving on SAGE and NERV-TAG, advising the House of Lords Science and
        Technology Committee, and leading major COVID studies feeding into government and
        public health policy.

 The staff returned here are located within UCL’s Faculty of Population Health Sciences (FPHS)
 plus five staff from other Faculties. FPHS (Hart, Dean) integrates population health with the
 broader research, teaching and innovation of the UCL School of Life and Medical Sciences
 (SLMS). Staff work in four institutes within FPHS: Institute of Epidemiology and Healthcare
 (IEHC; Director Hayward); Institute of Health Informatics (IHI; Hemingway); Institute of Clinical
 Trials and Methodology (ICTM; Parmar); Institute for Global Health (IGH; Abubakar). We also
 return staff whose research focuses on public health, primary care, or health services research
 working in the Great Ormond Street Institute of Child Health (GOS ICH; Smyth), Institute of
 Cardiovascular Science (ICS; Hingorani) and Institute for Women’s Health (IfWH; David), all
 within FPHS, and five other departments outside FPHS (Statistical Sciences, Institute of
 Advanced Studies, Institute of Sport and Exercise Science, and Institute of Risk and Disaster
 Reduction).

 The Unit is embedded within a highly networked wider research environment to enable
 collaborative and innovative research. Applied health research is supported by major
 infrastructure investment, including the NIHR CLAHRC and its successor, the ARC (§1.3). We
 align strategically with our partner NHS Trusts, co-locating staff with University College London
 Hospitals Foundation Trust; the Royal Free London Foundation Trust; Camden and Islington
 Foundation Trust; Great Ormond Street Hospital NHS Trust; North East London Foundation
 Trust; and Central and North West London NHS Community Trust. Our health informatics
 research platforms are regional, national and global, including through HDR-UK, and our global
 health research network extends through >60 countries to tackle some of the most challenging
 global health problems.

 1.2 Research mission and delivery strategy
 Our mission is to improve human health and reduce inequalities over the life course from
 preconception to old age, and across generations. We aim to deliver outstanding research,
 education and impact for improved human health globally. We do this by: (1) improving
 understanding of the foundations of health and aetiology of disease, (2) identifying, evaluating
 and implementing interventions and policies to promote health and improve health outcomes
 and disease management, and (3) continually developing our research workforce,
 infrastructures, interdisciplinary working and methodologies.

 Our research is organised around four themes: Theme A - Lifecourse Epidemiology, Public
 Health and Health Services Research; Theme B - Big data and Advanced Analytics; Theme C -
 Clinical Trials and Methodology; and Theme D - Global Health and Partnerships (Figure 1). Key
 mechanisms for delivering our research and impact strategy across these themes are:

    •   Focused Institutes and Research Centres with clear, transparent and ambitious
        research strategies (§1.6).
    •   World-class infrastructure including cohorts, population surveys, translational health
        services research, and health informatics (§3).
    •   Extensive national and international collaboration using our public health, primary
        care and health services expertise to lead and contribute to synergistic collaborations
        and maximise the value of our outputs to the research community and public, for
        example, through UCL’s Grand Challenges Programme, collaborative health services,
        applied research infrastructure, and NIHR policy research units (§1.3, §1.5, and §1.6).
    •   Nurturing successful research leadership within an effective research environment
        and infrastructure (§2.1). Providing excellent training and development opportunities, with
        internationally outstanding leaders in public health research. Since 2014, 42 UoA2 staff
        have been promoted to professorial grade (62% female), 56 to associate professor or
        equivalent (75% female), and 37 to lecturer, senior research associate, or senior
        research fellow (84% female).

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Strong career development through improved appraisal and career development,
        excellent support in writing skills (grants-person-ship), and our active Early Careers
        Networks, as well as priority given to career advancement of clinical academics with joint
        or honorary contracts with the NHS or PHE (§2.1).
    •   Supporting sustained funding success within longstanding research programmes,
        such as our MRC-funded cohort research, and through fellowships and standalone
        funding (§3).
    •   Developing a fair and inclusive culture through open discussion of issues such as
        racism, bullying and harassment and continued actions to address these (§2.3).
    •   Excellent doctoral training programmes with funding from Wellcome, MRC, and
        ESRC, and a track record of successful fellowship awards from these and other funders,
        including NIHR, health charities, and industry (§2.2).
    •   Innovative and vibrant public engagement, for example, we established the Co-
        Production Collective in collaboration with UCL Culture and with Hart as Chair of the
        Allies Group, with support from Wellcome (§4.4.4).
    •   Interdisciplinarity: UCL Health of the Public (co-Directors: Hart and Johnson) was
        created with investment from the UCL Provost’s Strategic Development fund to bring
        UCL’s transdisciplinary multi-faculty expertise together to improve health for all (§1.3.6)
    •   Citizenship: our staff serve as chairs or panel members for all major national and
        international grant funding and fellowship panels and contribute extensively to national
        and international policy and guideline development bodies, including NICE and WHO
        (§4.3).




                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 1. Columns: research themes. Rows: key partners for facilitating research and translation.

 1.3 Development of Research Environment since REF2014
 Our REF2014 research strategy focused on developing the vitality and sustainability of our
 environment through growth and innovations, while enhancing existing successful programmes
 of work, through new staff appointments, staff promotions and resource allocation. Here we
 highlight key advances that have enabled us to successfully deliver on our 2014 submission
 priorities and maximise world class academic, clinical, policy, and non-academic impact.



                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1) In Theme A, we have continued to build on our existing strengths in life course
 epidemiology and inequalities, led by the Institute for Epidemiology and Healthcare (Director
 Hayward), and 24% of UoA2’s submitted research output is based on analysis of our cohorts
 and major population surveys. Our unit hosts or has strong links to 14 of UK’s population-based
 cohort studies, including the oldest and the newest British birth cohort studies, and the largest
 tri-ethnic UK cohort. Our strengths in life course epidemiology have been accelerated by the
 MRC Unit for Lifelong Health and Ageing, which joined in 2013. This has permitted greater
 collaboration with existing ageing cohorts held at UCL (Whitehall, English Longitudinal Study of
 Ageing, British Regional Heart Study) and with other groupings at UCL, including the Dementia
 Research Centre in the Faculty of Brain Sciences (directed by Fox, UoA4) and the Institute of
 Healthy Ageing in the Faculty of Life Sciences (directed by Partridge, UoA5). Core MRC
 investment (£400k) was augmented by £230k from UCL (§3.3), including the creation of a
 clinical phenotyping unit of healthy ageing with UCLH. We have also established close links with
 the UCL Institute of Education, strengthening collaboration with the Centre for Longitudinal
 Studies (CLS). CLS houses the remaining three UK national birth cohort studies (1958, 1970
 and Millennium studies), and manages the ESRC/MRC Cohort & Longitudinal Studies
 Enhancement Resources (CLOSER) consortium, maximising the use, value and impact of the
 UK's leading cohort studies. We thus host the largest centre for birth cohort studies in the world
 with focused disciplinary expertise in longitudinal epidemiology.

 2) We have strengthened health services, primary care and applied population health
 research in Theme A through the NIHR CLAHRC North Thames (Director Raine) and its
 successor, the ARC. This enables close working with local health services, local authorities and
 patient groups to identify and evaluate interventions that improve health and social care. The
 CLARHC and ARC link UoA2 to UCL Partners and over six million people in the UK’s largest
 academic health science system, delivering patient and public centred population health
 research. UCLP now comprises >40 organisations, including the NHS, higher education, and
 local authorities. It is one of eight NIHR Academic Health Science Centres (AHSC), combining
 excellence in research, health education and patient care in applied public health research and
 evaluative practice. We are one of eight academic centres with excellence in applied public
 health research that together form the NIHR School for Public Health Research (UCL PI Michie
 (UoA4), with Raine, Viner), and one of nine academic centres for primary care research in
 England, forming the NIHR School for Primary Care Research (UCL PI, Murray). We also host
 the NIHR Health Protection Research Unit (HPRU) in Blood Borne and Sexually Transmitted
 Infections with PHE (Sabin, £5M, 2014, renewed with £4M, 2019), reflecting that 16% of UoA2’s
 outputs are studies of HIV and STIs. We co-host the UK Prevention Research Programme
 ActEarly City Collaboratory (§4.2)(Hayward (UCL PI, £6M), and the UCL Institute of Health
 Equity (Marmot), which has international reach on global policy in health inequalities. Together
 these investments provide an exceptionally vibrant research environment for public health,
 primary care, health services and applied research spanning a wide range of non-communicable
 chronic diseases (36% of our outputs) and communicable diseases (26%).

 3) Our Theme B research in big data and health informatics research has been transformed
 by establishment in 2014 of the Institute of Health Informatics (IHI), and 14% of our outputs
 are analyses of electronic health records or digital health interventions. Led by Hemingway, it
 was a founder member of the world’s first national institute of data science for health (Farr
 Institute (2013-2018), now HDR-UK from 2018, with Hemingway as London hub director). IHI
 has cross-UCL support and funding, including from UCL Computer Science, and has attracted
 research income of >£15M since its creation; investment has expanded senior leadership from
 one to seven Professors. We also offer the largest portfolio of post-graduate teaching
 programmes in health informatics with >220 current postgraduate students, making a significant
 contribution to future generations of health informaticians. The CALIBER phenotype library
 (Denaxas) is the UK’s research platform for reproducible, ‘research ready’ definitions of
 diseases from linked electronic health records across primary and secondary care. Used in
 hundreds of research publications, it has been recognised internationally (NIH), and adopted
 and expanded in HDR-UK, linking to The HDR-UK Gateway. IHI investigators informed the
 development of the British Heart Foundation Data Science Centre and are at the forefront of

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 methods to create cohorts in the first analyses on all 56M citizens in England in the NHS Digital
 Trusted Research Environment (Denaxas, Hemingway). This research environment underpins
 UCL’s leading position (first equal with the Max Planck Society) in Europe for digital health
 publications (HealthXL, 2019) and first in the UK for medical informatics research (RAND
 independent report, 2014).

 4) In Theme C, our ground-breaking work on Clinical Trials and Methodology has been
 enabled by establishing (2013) and expanding the UCL Institute for Clinical Trials and
 Methodology (ICTM), the largest of its kind in Europe; 28% of our research outputs are
 randomised controlled trials and 8% meta-analyses. The ICTM is a centre of excellence for
 clinical trials, meta-analysis and epidemiological studies that brings together four clinical trials
 units: the MRC Clinical Trials Unit (MRC CTU – Parmar), the PRIMENT Clinical Trials Unit
 (primary care, mental health and community care interventions - Nazareth, Rait), the
 Comprehensive Clinical Trials Unit at UCL (Freemantle) and the CRUK & UCL Cancer Trials
 Centre (Ledermann, UoA1). ICTM’s influence on clinical research extends throughout UoA2 and
 the wider UCL community, as well as nationally and internationally. It has attracted research
 funding totalling £172M. The MRC-CTU was the core of the London Hub, and in 2018, this
 initiative became the MRC-NIHR Trials Methodology Research Partnership. The MRC-CTU was
 instrumental in setting up the London site for trials methodology (within HDR-UK, 2018) using
 electronic health records to increase recruitment efficiency and enhance outcome measurement.

 5) Global health research (Theme D) has been strengthened by creating (2013) and expanding
 the UCL Institute for Global Health (IGH) as a centre of research and teaching excellence. 15%
 of our outputs are global health studies in low- or middle-income countries. Under Abubakar,
 IGH has grown to >150 staff in 2020, with eight Professorial appointments or promotions,
 including six women, in the past three years (Prost, Sonnenberg, Rodger, Shahmanesh,
 Mercer, Skordis, Copas, Gilson), and research income of nearly £40M. IGH houses The
 Lancet Countdown: Tracking Progress on Health and Climate Change, The UCL Lancet
 Commission on Migration and Health, and Global Health 50:50. IGH was the foundation host for
 the Global Alliance for Chronic Diseases (GADC) and incubated it to its current standing as an
 alliance of research funders. We work across >60 countries to give global reach and influence.
 IGH has developed strong synergistic research links with the Wellcome-funded Africa Health
 Research Institute (AHRI) in KwaZulu Natal, South Africa, including through jointly appointed
 staff (Shahmanesh), who enable cross-disciplinary research on disadvantaged communities
 with high burden of HIV. Our research shapes global policy on climate, migration and gender,
 maternal and child health, emerging and chronic infectious diseases, non-communicable
 diseases, and maternal and child health, and global health economics.

 6) We recognise the importance that disciplines outside health sciences can make to research
 improving the health of the public. To strengthen interdisciplinary research and collaboration,
 our Unit works closely with UCL’s eleven Faculties to create Domains including cancer,
 eResearch, food metabolism and society, microbiology, neuroscience, personalised medicine,
 and populations and lifelong health. In particular, the Populations and Lifelong Health Domain
 (led by Johnson) has reinforced links between population health in UoA2 and many other
 disciplines, including urban development expertise (Complex Urban Systems for Sustainability
 and Health (CUSSH)), infection and immunity (Africa Health Research Institute), computer
 science (Farr and HDR-UK) and through ActEarly (§4.2). In 2019, UCL further boosted cross-
 disciplinary population health by investing £0.5M to establish UCL Health of the Public, led by
 Hart and Johnson. This virtual School builds on recommendations in the Academy of Medical
 Sciences Health of the Public in 2040 report (Johnson) to change the paradigm of population
 health research to a truly transdisciplinary endeavour. UCL Health of the Public is developing
 new cross-disciplinary research communities, supporting strategic cross-disciplinary grant
 applications, developing new cross-disciplinary educational offerings, and showcasing UCL’s
 expertise. In one recent example, UCL Health of the Public launched the ‘Coronavirus: The
 Whole Story’ podcast series to highlight UCL’s cross-cutting research and expertise in tackling
 the COVID-19 pandemic; it had received ~30,000 listens by 31 July 2020.


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.4 Open Science, research reproducibility, and integrity
 We are committed to research transparency and integrity, underpinned by the institutional
 statements/policies described in REF5a. All research in UoA2 meets UCL’s Statement on
 Research Integrity (incorporating the principles of the UK Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity), Code of Conduct for Research, and Statement on Transparency in Research. We are
 committed to Open Science and signed the Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) in
 2015. UCL is a founding member of the UK Reproducibility Network. Extensive training and
 enabling mechanisms (including recognition in promotions criteria) have been developed (§2).
 UCL has research governance policies (REF5a) that underpin expectations about research
 conduct. The Code of Conduct for Research articulates the expectations and defines action to
 be taken in the event of suspected research misconduct. All issues relating to confidentiality and
 security in the use of patient and participant data fall under UCL’s Data Protection policies and
 the Data Protection Office provides extensive training, guidance, and support.

 Open Science is strongly embedded in our research environment and our Unit has access to
 UCL’s centralised resources and procedures for implementation of open access compliance,
 including administrative staff time and training for all staff to make all publications available in
 UCL Discovery (REF5a). UCL Discovery provides free and unrestricted access to ~10,000 texts
 authored by UoA2 researchers. Of all UoA2 articles and conference papers that were accepted
 for publication from 1 April 2016, 97% have been deposited in UCL Discovery, are gold open
 access or qualify for exceptions, and 91% comply with or have exceptions to the REF open
 access policy.

 Staff across UoA2 have led and contributed to initiatives to enhance research reproducibility,
 integrity, data sharing, and transparency. One third have published papers or undertaken
 activities that specifically promote research reproducibility, including defining guidelines or
 setting community standards. For example, Murray was part of a collaborative that developed
 the STARI guidelines to improve reporting of implementation research (BMJ) and Field led an
 international collaboration publishing a STROBE extension for reporting of research using
 metagenomics (Lancet Infectious Diseases). Nearly half of staff made research data, software,
 or code available using open-source sharing platforms. Our health informatics platforms meet
 the research data management principles of being ‘Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and
 Reusable’ (FAIR), as exemplified by the CALIBER platform (Denaxas). One third of staff have
 published research that reproduced key findings in their field, and a similar proportion
 contributed to best reporting practices, for example, pre-registration, full design, analysis
 reporting and publication of datasets.

 1.5 Research and impact strategy
 Achieving real world impact is at the heart of our work. This is exemplified by the impact studies
 developed for this submission; the initial strong “shortlist” of 23 statements was reduced to 10
 based on our WTE numbers. Unsubmitted statements led to research impacts such as:
 improving bowel cancer screening uptake (Raine); improving the international management of
 lung cancer (Burdett); NHS reorganisation to reduce weekend mortality (Freemantle);
 supporting local, national and international bodies to address health inequalities (Marmot);
 improving HIV management in pregnancy (Thorne); improving childhood pneumonia outcomes
 in low-income settings (Colbourn); reducing the burden of diabetes in Bangladesh (Fottrell);
 promoting gender equity in international health organisations (Hawkes); changing the law on
 child physical punishment in Scotland (Kelly); national digital health interventions for diabetes
 (Murray); preventing childhood blindness (Rahi); increasing influenza vaccination of healthcare
 workers (Hayward); supporting return-to-school for children in the COVID-19 pandemic (Viner).
 Submitted impact studies had major influences on a wide range of stakeholders as summarised
 below.

 These and other impacts of our research on society and the economy are maximised through
 development of strategies for patient, public, health service and policy involvement and
 engagement in research, extending the global reach of our research especially in low- and
 middle-income countries and enterprise support. We do this through engagement with the REF

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Impact Team, UCL’s Social Policy Unit, UCL Innovation and UCL Enterprise, UCL Grand
 Challenges, UCL Consultants and UCL Business (§3.2.2), the Academic Health Partnerships
 (AHPs), AHSCs, UCL Global Engagement Fund, UCL Public Engagement, and the UCL Co-
 Production Collective.

 To achieve targeted and measurable research impact, our primary users and beneficiaries are:
    • Patients, their families and carers, and people at risk of conditions affecting health
        and well-being, who benefit from: our work investigating the factors that determine
        health and disease in populations; our research developing, testing, and measuring the
        impact of interventions and service improvement to enhance the health and wellbeing of
        the public; and our efforts to reduce inequalities in health status. For example, in the field
        of HIV prevention, our research has changed global policy so that therapy is now offered
        to all people living with diagnosed HIV and includes the PARTNER study, which
        underpinned the hugely influential international U=U campaign (Undetectable =
        Untransmittable), which is endorsed by the World Health Organization (WHO) and all
        major global HIV organisations (Rodger, UCLUoA2_ROD). Our research on extreme
        health inequalities led to the world’s largest ever health-led housing initiative (Every-One
        In), housing 35,000 homeless people during the pandemic (Hayward, UCLUoA2_COV).
        Our research on smoking cessation led to the annual Stoptober campaign (Brown and
        West, UCLUoA2_BRO).
    • Local, national and international healthcare providers with whom we partner to
        unlock the benefits of patient data and make healthcare accessible to all. We rapidly
        disseminate and translate research findings into clinical and public health practice, and
        we establish standards of prevention, investigation, diagnosis and treatment. For
        example, we host CogStack, a platform that extracts data from unstructured text in
        electronic health records. The technology was cited in the UK Chief Medical Officer’s
        Annual Report 2016, included as a flagship case study in the NHSX Report ‘AI: How to
        get it right’ and recognised in speeches given by the Secretary of State for Health.
        Analyses of the UoA2-hosted CALIBER research platform led to multiple changes to
        cardiovascular disease management and guidance (Hemingway, UCLUoA2_HEM).
        Fulop and Morris’s research evaluating the impact of stroke service centralisation
        supported implementation in Manchester and informed the 2016 National Clinical
        Strategy for Scotland, 2016 National Clinical Guidance for Stroke, and 2019 NHS Long
        Term Plan (UCLUoA2_FUL). Research from our HPRU on blood borne and sexually
        transmitted infections (STIs) and from the National Survey of Sexual Attitudes and
        Lifestyles (Natsal) led to major changes in prevention and management of HIV and STIs
        (UCLUoA2_PHI; UCLUoA2_SON). Shallcross’ research has guided policies to control
        COVID-19 in nursing homes (UCLUoA2_SHA).
    • Industry and entrepreneurs with whom our researchers actively partner to improve
        policy, practice and guidance impact. We are extremely active in clinical trials where
        industry collaboration has been instrumental in achieving our goals. For example, the
        STAMPEDE trial for prostate cancer has received >£1M from CRUK and >£7M from
        industry (Parmar, UCLUoA2_PAR). We work with big tech, including a collaboration
        between Google DeepMind and the Royal Free Hospital NHS Foundation Trust to
        identify and manage acute kidney injury (Raine). Through UCL Consultants and UCL
        Business, we use commercialisation to support sustainability of specific interventions, for
        example HeLP-Diabetes, and widen our impact with real world stakeholders, for
        example, through the Institute of Health Equity (Marmot)(§3.2.2).
    • Government Departments, non-governmental organisations and other policy
        makers via research units dedicated to generating the evidence base to inform policy, for
        example, through the NIHR Children and Families Policy Research Unit (Gilbert), the
        NIHR Obesity Policy Research Unit (Viner), and the NIHR Cancer Awareness,
        Screening and Early Diagnosis Policy Research Unit (Raine) (§4); through membership
        of key committees influencing policy through direct interaction; through input into NICE
        guidelines; and through advice to UK Government Departments and Ministers of State,
        all-party Parliamentary Groups, and House of Commons Select Committees, NHS


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         England, NHS Improvement, PHE and London structures including the Greater London
         Authority and Healthy London Partnership.
     •   Media and cultural organisations and the public through communicating our research
         findings with a broad range of audiences and through dialogue to inform our research
         priorities, including through ‘It’s All Academic: The Campaign for UCL’ (§4).

 We expect our academic staff to seek out and actively pursue opportunities to engage directly
 with external organisations and key research users in ways that result in the direct transfer of
 expertise and knowledge to transform and benefit society, as exemplified by our Impact Case
 Studies. UCL’s promotions process, the Academic Career Framework (§2.1.1), explicitly
 recognises and rewards these activities.

 1.6 Research themes
 Below we describe our research aims and research environment organised by theme.

     A) Lifecourse Epidemiology, Public Health and Health Services Research

 Our unit has unrivalled resources in population and clinical cohorts across the life course. We
 use our extensive portfolio of population cohorts spanning prenatal/neonatal stages to old age to
 advance understanding of health, the development of disease and functional ageing. We also
 have extensive infrastructure and expertise in health services research spanning the community,
 primary and secondary care.

 Our research aims are to:

 •   Tackle population-level socioeconomic and health challenges to enhance and extend
     healthy, economically productive, and socially connected lives
 •   Coalesce multi-disciplinary expertise in biomedical, social and engineering science to enrich
     the breadth and granularity of data collected in population studies and increase our ability to
     address complex questions
 •   Improve the delivery of health services and healthcare across community, primary and
     secondary care settings
 •   Train the next generation of scientists, and increase capacity, particularly through
     Fellowships.

 Success will lead to increased cross-cohort working, methodological advancement and
 consistency in data collection, data-linkage and biomarkers, a cadre of researchers able to
 utilise cohorts to elucidate changing biological and social drivers of health, increased national
 and international impacts on health policy and practice and reductions in inequalities.

 The main organisational units contributing to this theme are Epidemiology and Public Health
 (A1), Behavioural Science and Health (A2), Primary Care, Population Health, and Applied Health
 Research (A3), Paediatric Epidemiology (A4), and Cardiovascular Science (A5).

 Strategic achievements in this REF period

 (A1) Located within IEHC, the Department of Epidemiology and Public Health (EPH)
 (Director McMunn) undertakes life-course and populations surveys. The research environment
 includes some of the most important population health data resources globally: Whitehall II
 (Kivimaki, Brunner); International Centre for Longitudinal Studies in Society & Health (ICLS),
 undertaking analyses of major ESRC investments, including the British Birth Cohort studies and
 Understanding Society (Sacker, Kelly, McMunn); the Eastern Europe Research Group leading
 cohort studies across Europe (Bobak, Pickhart); the Health Survey for England (HSE)
 (Mindell); and the ONS Longitudinal Study, including follow-up of 1% of the Census in England
 (Shelton). The Institute of Health Equity (led by Marmot) develops strategies that reduce health
 inequities. The UCL Collaborative Centre for Inclusion Health (Hayward) seeks to prevent and
 redress the health harms of extreme social inequalities. For example, its work on ‘Management

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Control of Tuberculosis in Hard-to-Reach Groups’ led to WHO recommending Smartphone-
 enabled Video Observed Treatment for tuberculosis (UCLUoA2_HAY_VOT). The Centre’s
 Inclusion Health Lancet publications influenced the Government’s Rough Sleeper Strategy and
 creation of an Inclusion Health Unit at PHE. The UCL Centre for Dental Public Health (Watts) is
 a WHO Collaborating Centre for Oral Health Inequalities and Public Health. Three researchers
 are in the top 1% of highly cited researchers globally (Marmot, Kivimaki, Brunner).

 (A2) The Department of Behavioural Science and Health (BSH) (Director Steptoe)
 investigates how human behaviour impacts health and health outcomes. The environment is
 highly interdisciplinary, applying health and social psychology, aetiological and health care
 epidemiology, psychobiology, exercise science, behaviour genetics, dietetics, communication
 sciences, and health services research to achieve better understanding of disease prevention,
 early detection, and prognosis. There are six research themes: Cancer Communication and
 Screening (von Wagner) has influenced methods to improve uptake of NHS cancer screening
 programmes; Epidemiology of Cancer Healthcare and Outcomes (ECHO) (Lyratzopoulos) has
 improved reporting of patient experience, diagnostic activity and stage of diagnosis metrics;
 Energy Balance and Cancer (Fisher) focuses on diet and exercise to support recovery from
 cancer; Obesity (Llewellyn) has a particular emphasis on the role of appetite on weight; the
 Psychobiology group (Steptoe and Fancourt) leads the English Longitudinal Study of Ageing
 (ELSA), which provides evidence underpinning policy to Department of Health and Social Care
 (DSHC), Department of Work and Pensions, DCMS, Department for Transport, and MHCLG.
 The group also leads on art, culture and health research. Research papers and consultancy with
 the UK Arts Council has led to health being a new priority in the 2020-2030 Arts Council England
 funding strategy and Fancourt led the WHO Review of Evidence on Art Interventions and
 Health. The UCL Tobacco and Alcohol Research Group (UTARG) (West, Brown) lead national
 surveys of smoking and alcohol behaviour (UCLUoA2_BRO).

 (A3) The Department of Primary Care and Population Health (PCPH) (Director Stevenson)
 and the Department of Applied Health Research (DAHR) (Director Raine) drive innovative
 health services research across community, primary care and secondary care settings. PCPH is
 one of nine members of the NIHR National School for Primary Care Research (Murray). A major
 focus of the school has been capacity building (6 In Practice Fellows, 1 GP fellowship, 23 NIHR
 Academic Clinical Fellows and 6 Clinical Lecturers, and 11 postdoctoral fellowships since 2014),
 supporting the development of careers in primary care research. PCPH hosts the London
 Research Design Service (Nazareth) and the PRIMENT Clinical Trials Unit (Nazareth, Rait).
 PRIMENT evaluates complex interventions, medicines and psychiatric interventions in primary
 care and community settings with 34 completed projects and 15 currently supported. The Centre
 for Ageing Population Studies (CAPS) (Walters) collaborates with the UCL Institute of
 Neurology and Department of Psychiatry to improve care of dementia and other neurological
 diseases. Walters co-leads the Public Mental Health Programme, one of the three flagship
 programmes for the NIHR School for Public Health Research (2019-2022 NIHR). The eHealth
 Unit (Murray, Stevenson) develops digital technologies to improve health and health care
 including development, evaluation and implementation of a computer-based self-management
 programme for people with type-2 diabetes (Murray, NIHR). Sexual health work includes an
 interactive computer-based intervention for condom use training (Bailey, NIHR); Sexunzipped is
 now incorporated into the Brook website and Contraception Choices web-based decision aid.
 DAHR hosts the NIHR ARC North Thames (Raine). The Health Economics Group (Lorgelly)
 investigates health care and public health interventions. The Health Care Organisation and
 Management Group (Fulop) evaluates health service re-organisations and improvements. The
 Cancer Screening Group (Pashayan) investigates the role of genomics in cancer screening.

 (A4) Focusing on paediatric epidemiology, the Department of Population, Policy and
 Practice (PPP) (Director Rahi) is located within the UCL Great Ormond Street Institute of Child
 Health (GOSICH) and thus part of the largest concentration of child health research in Europe
 (other GOSICH staff are submitted under UoA1). The environment fosters research to enhance
 child health and development through interdisciplinary team science, addressing the
 determinants of health and improving prevention, treatment and supportive care. Stephenson

                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and now Gilbert lead the NIHR Policy Research Unit for Children, Young People and Families
 (2010-2018). The policy unit was recently renewed (2018-2023). This places UoA2 staff at the
 heart of providing evidence to inform child health policy making, with regular meetings with
 DHSC, PHE and NHSE and the cross-government family policy group. Additional areas of focus
 include: maternal and childhood infections, including Zika in Latin America and HIV and TB in
 Eastern Europe (Thorne); Child mental health, including psychological wellbeing in young
 people with epilepsy (Shafran); infant and childhood nutrition, including nutrition intervention
 studies using data linkage and integrated multisector community participatory research in India
 and the UK (Fewtrell, Lakhanpaul); congenital Hypothyroidism, including the UK Collaborative
 Study of Congenital Hypothyroidism and British Paediatric Surveillance Unit Study of
 Hypothyroidism (Knowles); eyes and vision, including harmonisation of measures across
 longitudinal cohort studies (Rahi); and paediatric palliative care, including the Louis Dundas
 Centre conducting research with children with life-limiting conditions (Bluebond-Langner).

 (A5) The Institute of Cardiovascular Science (Director Hingorani) was founded in 2011 as a
 world-class centre of excellence in pioneering novel, integrative strategies in preventative and
 therapeutic cardiovascular medicine. The Research Department of Population Science and
 Experimental Medicine (Hughes) is submitted under UoA2. The environment is set up to
 develop, apply and exploit innovative and detailed non-invasive phenotypic characterisation
 techniques in observational studies and clinical trials to understand the aetiology, mechanisms
 and targets for intervention in cardiometabolic disease and hypertension. This includes the MRC
 Unit for Lifelong Health and Ageing, home of the 1946 Birth Cohort, as well as follow-up of the
 Southall and Brent Revisited (SABRE) cohort (Chaturvedi), and participants in ALSPAC
 (Hughes).

     B) Big Data and Advanced Analytics

 Health informatics research is a centrally supported strategic priority area of research and
 methodological innovation that underpins our research-enabling environment.

 Our research aims are to:

 •   Deliver impactful research using health data and digital technology to deliver benefits to
     health and healthcare
 •   Harness and influence rapidly emerging opportunities in ‘big data’ for health-spanning patient
     data in electronic health records, genomics, mobile and wearables and wider societal data
 •   Establish a Data Lab as a service facility enabling efficient, tooled access to big data across
     UCL.

 Success will lead to UoA2 retaining academic competitiveness in the national context of HDR-
 UK, many more UoA2 staff and other UCL scientists enriching their research with big data and
 artificial intelligence, increased clinical, healthcare and policy impacts, and income generation
 with industry collaboration for societal impact.

 Strategic achievements in this REF period

 Health data are increasing in size and complexity and the UK has some of the richest health
 data in the world. The UCL Institute of Health Informatics (IHI) has created an environment that
 specialises in utilising these data to better understand health and disease.

 IHI’s work is supported by leadership of major infrastructure grants (§3). HDR-UK currently has
 £220M under direct management, and IHI achievements inform strategic direction. The
 environment has a particular focus on pioneering electronic health record research in
 cardiovascular disease. This includes: improving the quality of care of patients with heart
 disease (Hemingway, NIHR, MRC, Wellcome, EU); securing the first linkage of primary care
 records with a non-cancer disease registry, the myocardial infarction national audit project


                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (MINAP); and establishing the British Heart Foundation Cardiovascular Data Science Centre and
 the EU Big Data@Heart Programme.

 CALIBER provides researchers with re-usable research ready phenotypes from primary care
 data (now for 10m patients with 400m person years of follow-up), linked to other sources. UCL
 led this initiative from 2010 and it has grown to become the HDR-UK national standard with
 around 1000 unique users per month (up from ~250 in 2018). This underpinned COVID-19
 research on excess deaths in people with underlying conditions (Banerjee), including OurRisk
 calculator with 1.3M page views. IHI research also provided the first empirical demonstration
 during the pandemic of the radical drop in cancer diagnostic and treatment services, linking this
 to projected excess mortality (Lai).

 Research in public health data science includes a wide range of research using electronic health
 records to understand antibiotic prescribing and guide antimicrobial stewardship (Hayward,
 Shallcross – ESRC, NIHR), research measuring health needs in vulnerable populations through
 data linkage, such as the Wellcome Million Migrant study and an NIHR-funded evaluation of
 homeless health services (Aldridge).

 Gilbert leads a data linkage programme that integrates exceptionally rich and well-curated
 national administrative data for child and family health, social care and education, with
 economic, statistical and qualitative methods to ensure timely, relevant and robust evidence for
 policymakers. This has included leadership of Maternal and Child Health aspects within the
 CHAPTER grant (now HDR-UK), and partnership in the Administrative Data Research Centre
 led by the University of Southampton to analyse data from education, health, crime,
 environment, economic and welfare sectors. Gilbert also leads the Improving Public Health
 theme for HDR-UK 2018-23 across five London sites, and is a key partner in the UK Prevention
 Research Partnership network (UKRI, MRC).

    C) Clinical Trials

 We host one of the leading clinical trials centres in Europe (§1.3), bringing together expertise
 across the Unit and strengthening methodology within the field.

 Our research aims are to:

 • Improve patient outcomes through designing and running better and more efficient clinical
   trials
 • Identify research questions that are relevant and important for key stakeholders, and the
   types of evidence needed to implement excellent research
 • Maximise the likelihood of our research influencing policy, practice and future research.

 Success will ensure ongoing knowledge transfer and exchange priorities to advance excellent,
 high-impact research that is relevant to policymakers, health workers and patients.

 Strategic achievements in this REF period

 The Institute of Clinical Trials and Methodology (ICTM) undertakes clinical trials, meta-
 analyses and cohort studies, focusing on cancer and infectious diseases, as well as on
 methodology.

 We have developed a research environment with strategic expertise and achievement in the
 following areas:

 Methodological research: The MRC network of hubs for trials (Parmar) was established to co-
 ordinate methodology research across the UK, develop new methodologies and train the next
 generation of methodologists. The CTU was the core of the London Hub, and in 2018 this
 initiative became the MRC-NIHR Trials Methodology Research Partnership. The London Hub

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 focuses on developing and supporting innovative methodology. For example, adaptive trial
 designs, multi-arm-multi-stage (MAMS) platform trials, new approaches to handling missing
 outcome data, and methods for meta- and network meta-analysis. The CTU was also
 instrumental in setting up the London substantive site for trials methodology (within HDR-UK in
 2018) using electronic health records to increase efficiency of recruitment into trials and enhance
 outcome data collection.

 Cancer Trials: The STAMPEDE trial, led by MRC-CTU (Parmar), has recruited over 10,000
 patients with prostate cancer since 2005. The trial will report on ten randomised comparisons
 over 20 years, two of which have shown improvements in survival from adding
 chemotherapeutic agents (docetaxel and abiraterone) to long-term hormone therapy and
 changed clinical practice internationally (UCLUoA2_SYD).

 HIV Trials: ICTM collaborates on the European HIV Vaccine Alliance (McCormack) and plays a
 major role on INSIGHT (International Network for Strategic Initiatives in Global HIV Trials)
 (Babiker, NIH), including SMART and START, which have redefined our understanding of HIV
 pathogenesis and informed global HIV treatment guidelines. The PENTA Foundation (Gibb)
 conducts RCTs in children and adolescents accelerating access to antiretroviral formulations for
 young people, and the CHAPAS trials collaboration (Gibb) has brought simple dosing of
 antiretrovirals to Africa. These trials have contributed to the licensing of child-friendly
 formulations by the FDA and/or WHO prequalification and led to an enduring programme of child
 and adolescent RCTs in Africa, for example, the BREATHER-PLUS trial.

 Tuberculosis Trials: USAID and MRC co-funded the STREAM-1 trial that has led to reductions in
 treatment duration for multidrug resistant tuberculosis (MDRTB) and STREAM-2 which is
 assessing a fully oral MDRTB 9-month regime (Nunn). UoA2 also plays a key role in the TB
 Alliance TB-New Combination studies (Crook) and the MRC Truncate TB trial (Crook), as well
 as paediatric TB trials (Gibb and Crook) and TRUNCATE (Paton).

    D) Global Health Research and Partnerships

 The UCL Institute for Global Health (IGH) forms the strategic centre of global health research
 collaborations across UCL by convening and engaging the breadth and depth of expertise
 across the University (§3.1). Our approach combines interdisciplinary research with community
 engagement to develop and implement practical solutions to global health problems affecting the
 poorest communities.

 Our research aims are to:

 • Address global challenges through our disciplinary excellence and interdisciplinary approach
 • Make UCL an accessible organisation, actively involved in public engagement and discussion
   on issues with the greatest impact on global health
 • Continue inclusive research with disadvantaged and vulnerable groups, and building
   relationships with business and philanthropic partners
 • Offer global leadership in the integration of research and education, underpinning an
   inspirational and excellent student experience
 • Provide academic leadership in building a cadre of early-and mid-career academics to
   enhance our standing as a world-leading global health organisation.

 Success will increase UCL’s global recognition through our research, education and impact, and
 develop our global health research capacity. It will result in shared strategic vision and
 partnerships, and an increase in externally funded Fellowships and Chair positions for current
 staff, funded translational projects, and out-licensed IP, and improved income generation from
 enterprise.

 Strategic achievements in this REF period


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We seek solutions that address the social inequalities and determinants of health, as well as the
 underlying medical problems. Our Unit’s researchers collect evidence in the real world, evaluate
 interventions with communities and put research into practice so we can provide practical
 solutions for policymakers. Our research spans global health at international and regional levels,
 as well as in the UK and Europe, where a major focus is on infections of global importance (HIV,
 STIs and TB). The cognate research groups forming our research environment are described
 below.

 The Centre for Climate Change, Migration, Conflict and Health (Seal, Kelman), hosts the Lancet
 Countdown: Tracking progress on health and climate change, (Costello, Wellcome) and the
 Lancet Commission on Migration and Health, which has impacted global migration and health
 policy (Abubakar); the Centre for Pragmatic Global Health Trials (Copas) aims to promote
 methodological excellence in the conduct of pragmatic trials and global clinical trials (e.g. low
 birth weight, contraception, tuberculosis, HIV testing), working closely with ICTM; the Centre for
 Gender and Global Health (Hawkes) promotes a transformative approach to gender and health
 in research, policy and practice. The Centre led the highly successful globalhealth5050.org
 programme reviewing gender equality in ~200 organisations.

 The Centre for Clinical Research, Epidemiology Modelling and Evaluation (Phillips, Sabin)
 leads the NIHR HPRU in BBSTIs in collaboration with PHE, and has a long history of informing
 the management and control of HIV through leadership of cohorts such as the UK Collaborative
 HIV Cohort and the UK HIV Drug Resistance Database (Sabin, MRC) and partnership in the
 European Network of HIV/AIDS Cohort Studies (Phillips, EU); The Centre for Clinical Research
 in Infection and Sexual Health (Gilson) undertakes a wide range of studies to improve the
 clinical management and prevention of HIV, STIs and other infections. Shahmanesh works
 between UCL and AHRI and leads a research programme involving complex biosocial
 interventions (e.g. DREAMS and MTV-Shuga) to improve young adult health in rural South
 Africa (NIHR, MRC, Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Councils, the Bill and Melinda
 Gates Foundation, Wellcome, 3ie, and UNITAID); The Centre for Population Research in Sexual
 Health and HIV (Mercer, Sonnenberg) leads the ground-breaking National Surveys of Sexual
 Attitudes and Lifestyle (Natsal), which have directly impacted public health policy
 (UCLUoA2_SON). The Centre for Molecular Epidemiology and Translational Research (Field)
 drives transdisciplinary research incorporating molecular and ‘omic technologies into large-scale
 clinical and population studies. This includes research on TB (EU-funded E-DETECT TB
 programme, NIHR RID-TB programme), STIs, and emerging infections.

 The Centre for Global Non-Communicable Diseases (NCD) (Fottrell) focuses on NCD research
 in low, middle and high income countries; the Centre for Health of Women Children and
 Adolescents (Osrin) conducts research in India and Nepal to improve maternal and child health,
 sexual and reproductive health and mental health, and reduce violence against women and girls
 (the NIHR Global Health Group); the Centre for Global Health Economics (Skordis-Worral)
 conducts economic evaluations and is integral to the UCL health economics network convened
 by the Populations and Lifelong Health Domain. Their work developing priority setting tools
 (www.hiptool.org) in partnership with the World Bank, WHO and with funding from the Bill and
 Melinda Gates Foundation is informing international plans for Universal Health Coverage.

 1.6.1 COVID research
 Our Unit’s expertise has been deployed in leading some of the largest observational studies of
 COVID-19 in the UK as well as a large portfolio of international RCTs on COVID-19 funded by
 NIH (Pett, Babiker). Hayward and Aldridge lead the Virus Watch study and the linked COVID-
 Equity study to understand community incidence, symptom profiles, and transmission of COVID-
 19 in relation to population movement, behaviour and sociodemographic factors (£3.2M &
 £1.9M, NIHR/UKRI). Shallcross leads COVID-19 research in care homes (VIVALDI 1 and 2), a
 study prioritised by the Chief Medical Officer (£6.9M, DHSC) to understand and control infection
 within staff and residents. Fancourt and Steptoe lead the COVID-19 Social Study, which is the
 UK’s largest study into the psychological and social effects of the virus and pandemic control
 measures and involves >70,000 adults surveyed weekly to a total of >850,000 (£0.7M, Nuffield

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Foundation). These studies already feed into policy groups including NERV-Tag, SAGE and
 subgroups, PHE, DHSC, Senior Clinicians Group (CMOs), JCVI, and WHO. COVID-19 clinical
 trials include ACTT (INSIGHT-10), which led to the fast-track approval of remdesivir,
 TICO/ACTIV-3, a MAMS trial of neutralising monoclonal antibodies in hospitalised adults with
 COVID-19, and the ITAC (INSIGHT-13) trial of immunoglobulin hyper-enriched for COVID-19
 antibodies. The CTU’s network for COVID-19 RCTs includes the UK, Greece, Italy, France,
 Mozambique, Ethiopia and Uganda (~$2.3M). Our contribution to and impacts on COVID-19
 policy are described below (§4.4.1).

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing, recruitment and development
 The Unit attracts, develops and retains a cadre of academic leaders with international standing,
 through effective succession planning, a positive and supportive culture, and a comprehensive
 programme of support and development opportunities to ensure a vibrant and inspiring research
 environment. We prioritise empowering and developing staff, students and teams to reach their
 full potential, including through implementation of the RCUK Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers. To ensure that we are aware of any staff concerns, and to assist
 in the design of support mechanisms, UCL runs staff surveys biennially.

 Our recruitment strategy comprises two main components developed with a firm commitment to
 EDI principles (§2.3.3). First, new UCL-funded positions, often associated with education
 initiatives, enable recruitment of outstanding staff in open competition (for example, Mannell,
 subsequently awarded a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship). Second, we encourage, retain and
 integrate as many early career researchers (ECRs) as possible via fellowships of all kinds, to
 enhance their development and the vitality of our research teams. We support these staff as part
 of our investment in human capital that underpins our research environment, including bridging
 funds for ECRs between contracts (for example, Lai, Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic
 Support Fund). The ablest ECRs move on to more senior fellowships and UCL-funded posts (for
 example, Aldridge, Shallcross, Fancourt, Field, Devakumar, Harling, Davies). As one
 indicator of the success of our strategy, four prestigious UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships have
 been awarded to UoA2 since their launch in 2019, with Unit-level support that included
 commitment to an open-ended position.

 2.1.1 Appraisal and promotions
 All UoA2 staff are appraised annually within the UCL Appraisal, Review and Development
 scheme, which includes setting of specific research, education, training, and personal
 development objectives. A constructive and robust appraisal process provides equitable support
 for promotion, mentoring and training. An appraisal season (January-March) was introduced in
 2018 and engagement has vastly improved (at least 94% of staff had received an appraisal in
 2019, compared to ~80% previously). To further improve appraisal quality, we have trialled an
 appraisal checklist, designed to ensure discussion about promotion eligibility and support, career
 development, mentoring, training requirements and work/life balance, and introduced an optional
 second appraiser in 2019.

 Academic and research staff are recognised and rewarded via UCL’s Academic Career
 Framework, which was comprehensively revised in 2017-18 to include explicit criteria and a
 broader outline of skills areas (including increased emphasis on teaching) across all career
 paths. Promotions are not contingent on securing grant funding but on ability and achievements,
 and the DORA commitments to research evaluation are recognised, as are contributions to
 Open Science. Whether academic staff deliver research or education, specialise in public
 engagement or enterprise, or focus on institutional citizenship, the framework ensures that
 impact is measured fairly and consistently. Since REF2014, 42 UoA2 staff have been promoted
 to professorial grade (62% female), 56 to associate professor or equivalent (75% female), and
 37 to lecturer, senior research associate, or senior research fellow (84% female).



                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1.2.1 Nurturing leadership
 Nurturing research leadership is a major priority, and we actively encourage and invest in UoA2
 staff and enable their participation in UCL’s leadership programmes. These include ‘Women in
 Research’ (undertaken by 8 UoA2 staff), ‘Women in Leadership’ (17 staff), ‘Senior Women in
 Leadership’ (10 staff), ‘Emerging Leaders’ for Black, Asian, and Minority Ethnic Staff (3 staff),
 and the flagship ‘Future Leaders’ programme (10 staff) that was co-developed by Hart. These
 programmes prepared many staff for significant leadership roles, including Kelly, Lorgelly,
 Sonnenberg, Abubakar, Hayward and Skordis.

 2.1.2.2 Careers development, mentoring, and training
 UCL’s Academic Careers Office (ACO) promotes and supports all aspects of academic and
 clinical academic careers through a range of programmes and support schemes. Their career
 schemes give researchers the funding, skills and personal qualities necessary to succeed. One
 highlight is the ADAPT to Thrive series, where researchers share stories of their failures
 (Festival of Failure), aiming to normalise failure and build a more resilient research community.
 Other schemes include Eureka@UCL, focused on translational research, and Clinician Coders,
 which provides clinical academics with data science skills. ACO funding aims to provide skills
 training for all academics, including MRC Skills Development Fellowships, the Wellcome Clinical
 PhD Programme, the NIHR Integrated Academic Training Programme (responsible for training
 52 Academic Clinical Fellows and 17 Academic Clinical Lecturers based within UoA2 from 2014-
 2020), and the UCLH BRC Education Academy. In 2019-20, the ACO trained >1000 UCL
 research staff. UCL also provides a comprehensive mentoring programme for academic and
 research staff, with mentors and mentees provided with online training, a mentoring framework,
 guidance, and a learning log.

 We are committed to continuing professional development for all staff at all levels. All staff have
 protected time to complete 10 days per year of skills training and participate in diverse training
 schemes, including preparing early- and mid-career researchers as independent researchers
 (scientific writing, grant preparation) or for alternative career paths. Courses in fair recruitment
 and PhD supervisor training are compulsory for staff involved in recruitment or PhD supervision.

 We fully participate in UCL’s sabbatical policy, providing paid leave free from teaching and
 administrative duties, which is designed to enable staff to maintain a high calibre of research,
 scholarship, teaching and innovation. For example, Mindell took up a visiting Professorship at
 the University of Otago (2019) and Sheringham held a visiting Fellowship at the Nuffield Trust
 (2017). Other staff have taken secondment opportunities, for example, Stephenson was Chair
 of the UK General Medical Council (2015-2019) and Chair of the Health Research Authority for
 England (2019-).

 2.1.3 Support for early career researchers
 One fifth of staff submitted under UoA2 are early career researchers, testifying to the vitality of
 the Unit, and the prioritisation of early careers activity. All parts of UoA2 have dedicated
 programmes for development of researchers at the beginning of their careers. For example,
 through careers advice surgeries, chalkboard meetings supporting development of research
 ideas, and internal grant panels providing peer review to strengthen applications.

 Career development and integration of early career researchers within UoA2 is supported by the
 UCL Health of the Public Early Careers Network (ECN). The ECN provides opportunities to meet
 peers, share experiences and initiate collaborations. Since 2014, the ECN has delivered >40
 career development events attended by 100’s of early career researchers, such as ‘Get that
 grant seminars’, as well as disseminating information about jobs, training, and funding. The ECN
 is also aligned with dedicated strategies for early career researchers embedded in Athena
 SWAN action plans.

 UCL Careers provides additional dedicated support for UCL’s postdoctoral community, including
 one-to-one advice, events and workshops. UCL also provides a comprehensive Research Staff
 Development Programme run by UCL’s HR Organisational Development (OD) team, covering

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 core research and leadership skills. The OD team organised a Postdoc Appreciation Week
 (September 2019), including a festival of events to celebrate the largest community of
 researchers in the UK. The UCL Research Coordination Office (RCO) manages the Wellcome
 Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund to enable support of UCL researchers at all stages of
 their career, with 22 awards made in the submission period (>£546k). UCL Excellence in Health
 Prize (1st prize £5,000, 2nd prize £2,000) is organised by the Populations and Lifelong Health
 Domain for early careers researchers, and includes support for career development, tailored
 mentoring, and research dissemination. The UCL Bogue Fellowship scheme supports
 postgraduate research students to visit North America (successful applicants from IGH and
 ICH).

 Teaching opportunities are key to diversifying the skills portfolio of these staff. We provide
 dedicated training through UCL Arena Fellowships (accredited by the Higher Education
 Academy), and UoA2 staff have been awarded 75 Associate Fellowships, 54 Fellowships, 12
 Senior Fellowships, and one Principal Fellowship.

 2.2 Research students
 Postgraduate training is a central feature of our research and scholarly activity. In total, 329 new
 postgraduate research (PGR) students enrolled in the REF period. The number of PGR students
 increased from 381 in 2017-8 to 417 in 2020-21. A total of 284 doctoral degrees were awarded
 in the REF period, an increase of 130% from REF2014 (120 awards). The Unit participates in
 several prestigious Centres for Doctoral Training, including the UCL-Birkbeck MRC Doctoral
 Training Programme (DTP), and others outlined below.

 Our commitment to doctoral research training is evidenced by initiatives on recruitment,
 programme development, progress monitoring, equality and diversity initiatives, and integration
 into the research culture. The success of these is confirmed by Postgraduate Research
 Experience Survey data which show that for the latest survey (2019), overall satisfaction was
 85%.

 2.2.1 Recruitment
 Recruitment to PhD training is strong, based on broad marketing (mainly digital), UCL’s
 reputation, and active staff engagement with other HEIs, third sector organisations, and industry,
 as well as from within our extensive postgraduate taught programmes. We organise open days
 for prospective students with representatives from all PhD programmes and show-casing work
 from existing students. Selection processes are criterion-based and geared to ensuring equality.
 For example, offers are made in the Institute for Global Health by two senior academics on the
 basis of a research proposal, blinded to all personal details, and the Institute of Child Health is to
 trial blinding applications to gender, nationality, and ethnicity.

 2.2.2 Current programmes
 Central to improving the quality of doctoral training is increased enrolment in well-resourced 4-
 year PhD programmes, supported by the ACO (§2.1.2.1), all incorporating mentorship schemes,
 cohort-building activities, and specifically addressing equality and diversity, and mental health
 issues. Programmes hosted by our submission include:

 •   The UCL-Birkbeck MRC DTP, which is the largest MRC-DTP in the UK (£15M, 2016-2021).
     The programme funds 122 students on 4-year studentships, National Productivity
     Investment Fund studentships and MRC iCASE studentships; the latter working between
     UCL academics and industrial partners, including a wide range of large (e.g., GSK, Astra
     Zeneca) and small-medium enterprises. UoA2 leads the Population, People and Data
     Pathway (Zaninotto)
 •   The Soc-B Centre for Doctoral Training is a unique 4-year PhD programme in biosocial
     research (£4.6M from ESRC/BBSRC, with ~£3M from UCL, 2017-2028) and combines the
     strengths of UCL and the Universities of Manchester and Essex (Director, Kelly, UCL Co-
     Directors McMunn and Gibbon)


                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   The largest NIHR Academic Clinical Fellowship and Clinical Lectureship programme in
     England and Wales
 •   A Wellcome Clinical PhD Programme that has enrolled 33 students since 2014
 •   The ESRC UCL, Bloomsbury & East London (UBEL) Doctoral Training Partnership: Life-
     course and Social Epidemiology pathway
 •   The UKRI-BBSRC London Interdisciplinary Doctoral (LIDo) DTP, which is a trans-London
     partnership of eight leading research organisations including UCL, with Associate Partners
     including Unilever, Food Standards Agency, Animal and Plant Health Agency and Royal
     Botanic Gardens (£16M, 2015; £21.7M, 2020); it admits 55-65 students per year
 •   The UKRI-funded UCL Centre for Doctoral Training in AI-enabled healthcare systems (led
     by Rees (UoA4), Taylor), which involves the UCL/UCLH and GOSH/ICH NIHR BRCs
 •   NIHR HPRU in Blood Borne and Sexually Transmitted Infections PhD Academy (Rait)
 •   NIHR Applied Research Collaborations North Thames funded PhD studentships
 •   NIHR School for Primary Care Research PhD studentships
 •   NIHR School for Public Health Research PhD studentships

 2.2.3 Sustainable doctoral training
 Specific governance processes, reviewed regularly, ensure that training is effective and
 sustainable, and that students are well supported. All newly enrolled PhD students attend a
 comprehensive induction process.

 UCL Doctoral School supports all PhD students and provides quality control mechanisms for
 monitoring progress. Departmental Graduate Tutors (DGT) are responsible for ensuring fair and
 equitable student recruitment, appropriate supervision, progress from MPhil to PhD registration,
 and thesis submission. DGTs also advise students about how to access additional resources
 and provide support if they encounter difficulties. All students are matched to an experienced
 principal supervisor, with subsidiary supervisors contributing specific expertise. Staff are
 required to attend a training course on PhD supervision before supervising and must act as a
 subsidiary supervisor before progressing to primary supervisor. DGTs ensure that new primary
 supervisors are supported by an experienced secondary supervisor. Ongoing professional
 development for supervisors is led by the UCL Arena Centre, including regular workshops
 covering topics such introduction to supervision (undertaken by 121 staff), examining doctorates
 (41 staff), and positive working relationships.

 The ratio of research students per approved principal supervisor is currently 1.4:1 (2020-2021).
 From 2019/20, all newly enrolled PhD students have had Thesis Committees (TC) to support the
 student and principal supervisor, improve the student experience and facilitate early detection of
 any issues. TCs have specific responsibility for the student’s personal development. Each TC
 consists of at least two members of staff and the subsidiary supervisor and meets with the
 student at least four times during a 3-year PhD programme. Additional support comes from our
 peer mentoring scheme, where all newly enrolled students are matched with a senior student.
 Research student committee representatives ensure that students’ voices shape and influence
 our policy.

 Closure of non-essential research facilities due to COVID-19 has created major challenges for
 UCL’s doctoral researchers, and we are extremely conscious that PhD students may feel
 isolated. To support all PhD students, UCL rapidly implemented measures to ensure continuity
 of supervision, support, training, and funding throughout the closure and beyond. These
 measures include the UCL Stipend Extension Scheme to support final-year funded students in
 submitting their doctoral thesis, by underwriting stipend funding for up to three months, and a
 Faculty scheme to provide financial assistance to PhD students who are carers. The Financial
 Assistance Fund for Postgraduate Research Students (FAF-PGR) also supports students who
 are in unexpected financial need and prioritises students with children (particularly single
 parents), with disabilities, and who are self-payers. There has been a concerted effort to ensure
 that social support activities are in place, for example, virtual common rooms, drop-in coffee
 mornings, social media groups and the popular cross-Institute film club moving to a virtual arena.
 We also implemented training for supervisors on remote supervision.

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.2.4 Career development and support
 Particular emphasis is placed on careers guidance and skills development via the Doctoral
 School, UCL Careers Service, and the student’s Institute and research group. The success of
 these mechanisms is confirmed by first destination data from the Graduate Outcomes Survey: of
 UoA2 PhD students graduating in 2017-18, 89% went on to graduate-level full- or part-time
 employment, and 4% to further study, with a median starting salary of £39K.

 All students participate in the Doctoral Skills Development Programme and/or appropriate
 departmental courses equating to two weeks/year. Research students regularly assess and plan
 their skills training needs in discussion with their supervisory team and TC. We offer >220
 courses across the full range of skills that align with the Vitae Researcher Development
 Framework. Training courses and activities are assigned a points value and students must
 accumulate 60 points over three years, or 80 points over four years. Research integrity training
 is mandated using the Dilemma Game. Students also access support mechanisms available to
 early career researchers (§2.1.3), including the Early Careers Networks, and the UCL Careers
 Team, who are dedicated to helping students find the right path to ensure future career success.
 The service also advises on opportunities during students’ time at UCL to develop employability
 skills, encourages internships, and puts on events, workshops and one-to-one services. This
 central support is complemented by dedicated career events run across UoA2 with talks from
 relevant charities, NGOs, and industries. UCL Train and Engage is our flagship public
 engagement programme for postgraduate research students offering public engagement training
 and online modules, with awards of up to £1000 to run public engagement projects.

 2.2.5 Progress monitoring
 Progress is monitored using an online Research Student Log, which documents academic
 progression and skills development. The Log records supervision meetings and includes
 important milestones, and discussions on academic, generic and transferable skills training and
 training points for review by the supervisory team and DGTs. Submission is timely as evidenced
 by 85% of full-time 2013 entrants completing within a four-year period, and 75% (15/20) of all
 part-time PhD students starting in 2011 submitting within the prescribed seven-year period.
 Special systems have been established to support part-time PhD students, many of whom are
 clinicians, research assistants and/or have caring responsibilities. Work plans are scrutinised by
 DGTs to ensure that students are given adequate time and facilities for their doctoral studies and
 not disadvantaged by competing responsibilities.

 2.2.6 Integration into research culture
 Doctoral students are integral to our research activity. Most of our students are involved in
 collaborative, often interdisciplinary, projects and all are affiliated with specific research groups
 within UoA2. They participate actively in these research groups: attending meetings, leading and
 contributing to articles, giving presentations of their work, and attending conferences. Senior
 PhD students have opportunities to supervise summer studentships. The UCL Doctoral
 Students’ Small Grants scheme offers awards of £2,000 for pairs of doctoral students from
 different faculties who want to carry out research-informed, societally relevant, cross-disciplinary
 activities. Other research engagement opportunities include Soapbox Science, social
 hackathons, and science blogs.

 Students are encouraged to present at research conferences. Typically, students present at one
 or two national and one international conference, with funds available from the Doctoral School,
 the School of Life and Medical Sciences and from Institutes. We organise an annual
 Postgraduate Research Poster Symposium, which includes short oral presentations and posters
 (with prizes for each) and offers students throughout UoA2 the opportunity to present their
 research and network with students and staff. Postgraduates are strongly encouraged to enter
 the annual UCL Three Minute Thesis competition (3MT) with local rounds organised at Institute
 and then Faculty and national level. In 2016, a UoA2 student reached the national final, while in
 2018, a UoA2 student was a national semi-finalist.


                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Finally, a three-day postgraduate social epidemiology conference is held at Cumberland Lodge
 every year. The programme is organised by the PhD students, providing an opportunity for
 intensive exchange with researchers outside the individual student’s research group.

 2.3 Promoting equality, diversity and inclusion
 Our commitment to embedding Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) at the core of the Unit’s
 work is demonstrated by the creation of a dedicated UoA-wide senior leadership role (the Vice
 Dean for EDI) in 2019. The Vice Dean for EDI works closely with the Dean, Institute Directors,
 other Vice Deans and local Directors of Operations, and leads the development and
 implementation of UoA2’s EDI agenda. They chair termly EDI committee meetings at Faculty
 level to facilitate uptake of initiatives, efficient use of resources and sharing of best practise.

 The main benchmark of gender equality in the sector is Athena SWAN awards from Advanced
 HE. All staff within UoA2 work within Institutes with Athena SWAN action plans and six Institutes
 hold Athena SWAN awards; two gold, two silver, and three bronze (there is only one other gold
 award at UCL and 16 across the UK). An improvement or sustained achievement in these
 awards was achieved at a time when the scope of criteria was widened; GOS ICH successfully
 moved up from silver to gold and IGH from bronze to silver, while ICS renewed their silver award
 and IfWH submitted their gold renewal.

 Alongside gender and race, we recognise that other protected characteristics can influence the
 experience of working at UCL. UCL’s disability equality guidance materials were shared with all
 managers in UoA2 and highlighted on our EDI web pages. Support for our LGBTQ+ staff and
 students is highlighted by our promotion and support for Out@UCL and Trans awareness
 training, and staff are encouraged to include their pronouns in email signatures and meeting
 registrations. Staff in UoA2 are also members of institutional and national EDI committees and
 networks which promote equity across protected characteristics (gender, race, disability and
 sexuality). These include: Provost’s Inclusion Forum, Race Working Group (Race Equality
 Steering Group), LGBTQ+ Working Group (LEAG), Out@UCL, UCL Women, UCL Menopause
 Network, UCL Astrea, Disability Working Group and Enable@UCL.

 2.3.1 Staff and student profile
 The staff demographic profile has remained largely stable over the census period, with
 exceptions noted below. UoA2 has a higher proportion of female staff (66%) than UCL overall
 (44%), and 17% are BAME, with equal proportions of BAME males and females. UoA2 has a
 high proportion of international staff (15% EU, 15% rest of the world (ROW)). Overall, 6% of staff
 have a disclosed disability, and 3% identify as LGBT+. The age profile of UoA2 staff is similar to
 UCL overall (one third of staff fall into each of 25-34, 35-44, and 45–64 age categories). The
 demographic profile is similar whether analysed by headcount or FTE, indicating no significant
 differences in the characteristics of staff who work part-time. The post-graduate research student
 population is 77% female, with 48% identifying as non-white (an increase of 16% compared to
 2013/14). Most students (68%) are from the UK, with 7% EU and 20% ROW, and 11% have a
 disclosed disability.

 We have achieved a positive trajectory in the proportion of women holding senior grades during
 the census period with an increase from 50% to 70% for Grade 9 and from 46% to 54% for
 Grade 10. We attribute this to improvements in appraisal processes (§2.1.1), structured support
 for promotion, mentoring programmes, and improved leadership training for women. We
 nonetheless recognise a continuing challenge in the lower proportions of female staff at higher
 grades and we are developing strategies to address this. A similar challenge can be seen for
 BAME staff; 13% of those at Grade 10 are BAME compared to 23% at Grade 7. While we have
 not seen the same improvements in our ethnicity profile over time, we have implemented
 strategies to drive improvement in these areas (§2.3.2 and §2.3.3).

 The UCL Code of Practice for REF was strictly applied throughout the output review for
 determining whether staff should be returned, and best EDI practice was observed. All staff in
 UoA2 undertake mandatory ‘Diversity in the Workplace’ training and staff involved in preparing

                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the final output submission attended additional face-to-face REF-specific EDI training. Outputs
 were nominated by eligible staff members and reviewed by a total of 154 staff (43% M, 57% F).
 Overall, 59% of HESA2 staff returned are female and 12% are BAME staff, and these groups
 were equally or slightly more likely to have an output attributed when compared to their male or
 white counterparts. Our aim is that sustained and widespread engagement with UCL EDI
 initiatives, such as the Inclusive Advocates and Emerging Leaders programmes as well as the
 Carer’s Fund initiative (§2.3.2), will continue to enhance vitality, equality, diversity and inclusivity
 within our environment.

 2.3.2 Creating an inclusive environment through recruitment, training and support
 strategies
 All recruitment interview panels must ensure representation in terms of gender and ethnicity.
 UCL’s Fair Recruitment Specialist (FRS) initiative is firmly embedded as part of UoA2 recruitment
 processes. From 2018, it has provided a pool of six highly trained BAME staff to participate in
 recruitment to increase perspectives in decision-making, mitigate against 'cloning' and the
 perpetuation of current profiles, reduce the possibility of stereotyping and improve candidate
 performance by reducing 'stereotype threat'. We have committed to train at least 10 new FRS
 staff within UoA2 to further expand this programme.

 We have funded and promoted Unconscious Bias (UCB) training since 2014 and mandated this
 for all staff participating in recruitment panels. Newly promoted staff to grade 7 and 8 will also be
 invited to attend UCB training.

 We are mindful of the additional burden facing staff with caring responsibilities and the potential
 negative impact on their careers, particularly of women. To mitigate these effects, we set up a
 Carer’s Fund in 2019 to enable staff with dependents to attend meetings, conferences,
 workshops, and engage in other work-related activities that might not otherwise be possible. To
 date, 32 UoA2 staff have received awards, largely for childcare costs. Case studies on the
 website help to advertise the initiative.

 UoA2 is actively promoting and participating in UCL’s Inclusive Advocates initiative; a new
 sponsorship programme designed to ensure high-performing, under-represented groups reach
 their full potential at UCL. Following a targeted campaign, UoA2 has recruited 17 advocates, the
 highest number within UCL.

 To further support BAME staff, UoA2 has funded three places on the Emerging Leaders
 programme, UCL’s flagship leadership development programme for BAME staff, and has
 encouraged uptake of the ‘Accelerate to leadership’ scheme which trains and develops future
 BAME leaders to create a diverse internal talent pipeline for senior professional services roles.

 2.3.3 Well-being and research culture
 We prioritise staff well-being, including through the UCL Workplace Wellbeing campaign, ‘Five
 Ways to Well-being’, which was joined by the FPHS Faculty Office. In response to the lockdown
 caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, we funded and co-ordinated ‘Inclusive Leadership Training’
 which concentrated on how to better manage teams remotely. Other activities include
 ‘connection cafes’ to give online space for socialising, short meditation breaks, yoga classes,
 coffee morning meetings, an Institute ‘zen zone’, regular quizzes and books clubs.

 To combat sector-wide concern about bullying and harassment in academia, 22 ‘Where do you
 draw the line?’ training workshops were facilitated during the REF period. This involves small-
 group collective analysis of factors that might create and sustain environments in which
 harassment and bullying occur and empowers participants to address negative behaviours.
 Since 2018, twelve senior staff have participated in additional follow-up training, ‘Taking the
 Lead‘, which encourages our leaders to consider their responsibilities in creating and maintaining
 positive workplace cultures.



                                                                                                  Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A session on ‘Micro-inequalities in Higher Education’ was presented at the FPHS Professional
 Services Staff Conference in 2019. The session explored what is meant by micro-inequalities
 and aggressions and their impact, and on how all members of UCL can play a role in addressing
 these. To help reduce the emotional labour which can be placed on BAME staff in trying to
 address these inequalities, we have committed to promoting and co-ordinating race allies
 training throughout UoA2 in 2021. This aims to guide our white members of staff in advocating
 against oppression.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 UoA2 researchers have secured competitively awarded research funding totalling £350M and
 spent research income totalling £340M. This represents an average research income of £233K
 per FTE per annum (increased from £131K in REF2014). We have received competitive awards
 from all major funders, including NIHR (£71M), Wellcome (£19M), MRC (£97M), Bill & Melinda
 Gates (£3.7M), and the European Commission (£15M), often funding international collaborations
 (§4). Since 2013, we have secured 56 fellowships or personal awards totalling >£21M, including
 two UKRI Future Leader Fellowships (FLFs). Two additional FLFs (>£1M each) were awarded in
 the census period, with 2021 start dates. In addition, we secured two Sir Henry Wellcome
 Postdoctoral Fellowships and a Wellcome-funded Sir Henry Dale Fellowship, as well as other
 awards from MRC, NIHR, Wellcome, Academy of Medical Sciences, ESRC, Cancer Research
 UK, and the European Commission.

 3.2 Strategies for research income generation
 We take a multi-level approach in supporting researchers to obtain and manage funding for their
 research. Key to this is the provision of dedicated central operational support offices (see also
 REF5a). A roadshow is organised for new starters and officers visit Institutes to advertise these
 activities.

 The SLMS Research Coordination Office (RCO) promotes cross-disciplinary research
 communities and collaborations, supports research funding applications, and develops our
 health-related research strategy. The RCO team has 3.4FTE dedicated to supporting UoA2 and
 offers one-to-one support to research staff at all levels (~50% success rate for fellowships) as
 well as coordination of large-scale strategic award applications across multiple organisations
 (>£43M to UoA2). The team works across the lifecycle of applications, identifying relevant
 funding and fellowship opportunities, working with researchers to hone applications and navigate
 pre-award processes, and providing interview preparation. The RCO also coordinates internal
 research initiatives, managing UCL’s Wellcome Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF)
 award and QR GCRF award, which pump prime research (£0.5M ISSF and £2.2M QR GCRF
 supporting UoA2), and managing the UCL Excellence Fellowships Programme, which supports
 early career researchers in establishing independent careers (Shallcross).

 The UCL/UCLH/Royal Free Joint Research Office (JRO) supports researchers within UoA2 in
 the set-up and oversight of clinical research in the UK. The JRO provides proportional and safe
 research governance, with clear standard operating procedures. Its Clinical Research Support
 Centre sponsors major academic clinical trials and works in collaboration with UCL clinical trials
 units such as PRIMENT.

 The European Research and Innovation Office works to keep UCL at the forefront of
 European collaborations. UCL remains one of the leading participants in the EU’s Horizon 2020
 and the European Research Council funding programmes. The team offers dedicated proposal
 support services to UCL PIs and project management services to successfully funded projects.

 3.2.2 Commercialisation, technology and knowledge transfer
 UCL Business Ltd is the technology transfer company of UCL. Part of UCL Innovation and
 Enterprise, it has responsibility for commercialising UCL’s intellectual property through licensing
 agreements and formation of spin-out companies. For example, UCLB supported the Healthy

                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Living for People with Diabetes (HeLP-Diabetes) programme to improve diabetes control and
 reduce health care costs (Murray). Following establishment of a spin out, Help Digital
 Community Interest Company, NHSE licensed the programme in 2018 with the aim to give four
 million people with type-2 diabetes free access to this evidence-based self-management
 programme.

 However, our main approach to translation is in impacting on policy and practice. We use
 knowledge transfer through consultancy as one tool to ensure our staff can contribute their
 expertise directly to the needs of the NHS, Local Authorities, governmental organisations, third
 sector and industry. UCL Consultants Ltd assists with contractual, commercial and project
 management services when UCL’s academic community engages with external clients and has
 attracted £7.8M to UoA2 since 2014. For example, the Institute of Health Equity (Allen) utilises
 consultancy models to translate decades of research on inequalities into city-wide, national and
 international policy, practice and investment (Pan American Health Organisation, $626k), and
 Hawkes led on the ‘Sex, Gender and COVID-19 Project’ producing the world’s largest analysis
 of sex and gender in national COVID-19 policies (Gates, $600k).

 3.2.3 Scholarly infrastructure
 UoA2 researchers have access to 16 UCL libraries and other scholarly learning spaces,
 including specialist collections: GOSICH Library (including UCL's Global Health and
 Development Collection), UCL Science Library, Royal Free Hospital Medical Library, and the
 UCL School of Slavonic and East European Studies Library. A team of librarians provides a
 responsive in-depth enquiries service, as well as information skills training for researchers (for
 example, systematic literature review and citation management). They support Open Research
 through administration of the REF OA policy and the UCL OA Repository (§1.4).

 3.3 Major research infrastructure investments
 The following major infrastructure investments were made in the census period.

    •   The Bloomsbury Centre for Clinical Phenotyping is a new, purpose-built environment
        dedicated to clinical research (Chaturvedi, £2M, UCL; Hughes, £1M, British Heart
        Foundation), supporting the MRC National Survey of Health and Development (NSHD)
        and other UK birth cohorts and clinical studies.
    •   The MRC Lifelong Ageing Unit was consolidated and refurbished (£632K), including to
        host the MRC NSHD (Chaturvedi, £10.8M, 2013-2019; Chaturvedi, £9M, 2019-2024,
        MRC).
    •   The North Thames NIHR CLAHRC (Raine, £10M, 2014-2019) and ARC (£9M, 2019-
        2024) drive services and applied health research.
    •   The NIHR National School for Primary Care Research (Murray, £34M across the nine
        members 2014-2021, renewed with £32M from 2021-2026), including a public mental
        health flagship programme (£3M, 2019-2022).
    •   The NIHR School for Public Health Research (£1.7M, 2017) is one of eight academic
        centres with (UCL PI Michie (UoA4), with Raine, Viner).
    •   NIHR Policy Research Units for Children, Young People and Families (Stephenson,
        £8.6M, 2010-2018), Obesity (Viner, £4.8M, 2017-2022), and Cancer Awareness,
        Screening and Early Diagnosis (Raine (UCL PI), £1M, 2019-2023).
    •   The MRC (Hemingway, £2M) and UCL (£0.9M) invested in refurbishment of 222 Euston
        Road to create a state-of-the-art building for the Institute for Health Informatics (IHI).
    •   The MRC-led consortium funded the UK Farr Institute of Health Informatics Research
        (now HDR-UK) that, in London, brings together the combined strengths of university
        partners (UCL, LSHTM, QMUL), the NHS organisations in UCLP, and PHE
        (Hemingway, £9.5M 2013-2018 MRC and £4M of UCL investment).
    •   The HDR-UK London Hub unites all five of London’s major universities in biomedicine
        and health (UCL, Imperial College, King’s College, LSHTM and QMUL) to address
        national research priorities in data science (Hemingway, £6.9M 2018-2023 and an HDR-
        UK capital award of £1M in 2018-19).


                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   The UCL Data Safe Haven (£3.4M) provides a state-of-the-art solution for storing,
        handling and analysing identifiable data.
    •   The eMedlab high-performance computing facility (£9M, MRC) is a collaborative
        resource shared by UCL IHI, QMUL, LSHTM, the Crick Institute, Wellcome Trust Sanger
        Institute and European Bioinformatics Institute.
    •   The MRC Clinical Trials Unit provides cross-Faculty trials expertise (£48M, 2013-2021).
    •   The London MRC-funded clinical trials Hub (Parmar, £4.6M 2008-2019) focuses on
        methodological innovation to solve challenges in clinical trials.
    •   The UCL PRIMENT Clinical Trials Unit partnership (Nazareth, Rait, £1.9M, 2008-2023,
        NIHR) works across Primary Care and Population Health, Psychiatry, and Statistical
        Science departments.
    •   The UK Prevention Research Programme (UKPRP) Act Early (Hayward, £6.5M, 2019-
        2024, MRC) provides investment for transdisciplinary research to address wider
        determinants of child health.

 3.4. Significant grant income
 Examples of major funding include:

 Theme A (Lifecourse Epidemiology, Public Health and Health Services Research): Our
 collection of cohorts and surveys, including the Whitehall II study, funded by the MRC
 (Kivimaki, £4.1M, 2013-2023), the ICLS, which undertakes analyses of major ESRC
 investments (Sacker, £2.3M, 2013-2018, ESRC), and the Health Survey for England (Mindell,
 £1.4M, 2015-2020); on health inequities, research on TB in hard-to-reach groups is funded by
 an NIHR PGfAR (Hayward, £2.5M, 2011-2017); to advance Cancer research, the CRUK
 funded CanTest, a collaboration across eight universities focusing on diagnostic cancer research
 (Lyratzopoulos, £4.8M), a Senior Clinical Scientist Fellowship (Lyratzopoulos, £1M, 2015-
 2023) and a programme grant on energy balance and cancer (Fisher, £1.7M). Our work on
 ageing is advanced through the English Longitudinal Study of Ageing funded by the ESRC, NIH,
 BHF, UK Government and NIHR (Steptoe, £10.3M, 2014-2020), the PD-CARE study on
 personalised care for patients with Parkinson's Disease funded by NIHR PGfAR (Walters,
 £2.2M, 2018-2023), the APPLE Tree programme, funded by ESRC/NIHR, which focuses on
 active prevention of dementia (Walters, £3.9M, 2019-2023), and NIHR/ESRC-funded work to
 empower better end-of-life dementia care (Davies, £4.7M 2019-2023). On tobacco control,
 CRUK has funded research advancing population and individual approaches to smoking
 cessation (West £3.6M 2017-2021). We have received large grants to support arts and
 culture, including the Wellcome-funded effectiveness and implementation grant on scaling
 health-arts programmes (Fancourt, £2M), the UKRI-funded MARCH study on social, cultural
 and community assets in mental health (£1.2M), and the AHRC-funded HEartS study, a joint
 venture with the Royal College of Music and Imperial College London exploring the health,
 economic and social impact of the arts (£1M). Large grants funding applied health and primary
 care research are from NIHR to undertake a rapid evaluation of service innovations in the NHS
 (2018-23, £2M), a mixed-methods evaluation of specialist cancer surgery services (RESPECT-
 21) (2015-2020, £1.3M), and the London research design service (Nazareth, £2.8M, 2013-
 2023).

 Theme B (Big Data and Advanced Analytics): The NIHR UCLH Biomedical Research Centre
 established a research theme on Healthcare Informatics, Genomics, Omics and Data science
 (HIGODS) to leverage research in rich, real-time hospital data (£2.8M 2017-2022, Hemingway).
 For Cardiovascular disease, an NIHR PGfAR award to improve quality of care for angina and
 heart attack (Hemingway, £1.5M, 2009-2014); a Wellcome-funded study linking the national
 cardiac event register with primary care records and highly phenotyped cohorts, which
 established CALIBER (Hemingway, £1.2M, 2009-2014); BigData@Heart: Big Data for Better
 Hearts study funded by the EU (Hemingway, £0.9M, 2017-2022), and the NIHR-funded
 Cochrane Heart Group (Casas Romero, Bebiano Da Providencia E Costa, £2M, 2015-2025).
 For Public Health Data Science, major awards to control antimicrobial resistance, including the
 ESRC-funded PASS (Preserving Antibiotics Through Safe Stewardship) (Hayward, £1.6M,
 2017-2020) and an NIHR Career Development Fellowship to advance precision antibiotic

                                                                                         Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 prescribing (Shallcross, £1.1M, 2017-2022). Aldridge was awarded a Wellcome Career
 Development Fellowship to investigate and improve migrant health (£1.2M 2017-2022). For
 child health, Gilbert led the Administrative Data Research Centre for England (ESRC, £1.9M,
 2013-2018).

 Theme C (Clinical Trials): In the field of cancer, NIHR funded a trial of molecular selection of
 therapy in colorectal cancer (Kaplan, 2013-2020, £2M) and the ADD-ASPIRIN Trial (Langley,
 £7.1M 2014-2020) assessing whether aspirin prevents relapse after solid tumour therapy.
 Industry has funded major cancer trials, including the RAMPART trial of adjuvant therapy
 (Meade, £15M 2018-2030, Astra Zeneca), Phase III RCT of sorafenib for resected renal cell
 carcinoma (Parmar, £2.7M, 2013-19, Bayer PLC) and a trial in relapsing ovarian cancer
 (Parmar, £3.4M 2013-2023, Astra Zeneca). In infectious disease research, major HIV trials
 funded by NIH are INSIGHT (Babiker, 2013-2023, £1.9M) and START (Babiker, £10.9M, 2013-
 2023), with funding from the EU (European HIV Vaccine Alliance, McCormack, £1.6M 2016-
 2020), PENTA Foundation (Gibb, £5.3M, 2015-2020), and Janssen (CHAPAS-4 trial, Gibb,
 £3.3M, 2017-2023) to investigate new second-line antiretroviral drugs in children with HIV. We
 also lead major TB trials, including STREAM-2 to assess a fully oral regime for multidrug-
 resistant TB (Janssen/IUATLD, Nunn, £6.1M, 2015-2020), new combination studies (TB
 Alliance, Crook, £1.7M 2018-2023), and the Truncate-TB trial, comparing novel combination
 regimens for drug-sensitive TB (MRC, Crook, £5M, 2014-2020).

 Theme D (Global Health Research and Partnerships): Broad collaborations such as the
 Wellcome-funded Lancet Countdown on climate change (Costello, £5.5M, 2018-2023), and
 contributions through the Global Challenge Research Fund Hubs (2019-2024), Accelerating
 Achievement for Africa's Adolescents Hub led by Oxford University, South-South Migration Hub
 led by Coventry University, and Gender, Justice and Security Hub led by LSE (combined value
 of £1M). In South Asia, Osrin has a Wellcome Senior Research Fellowship (£2.4M), leads the
 NIHR Global Health Group, and undertakes Wellcome-funded cluster RCTs to prevent violence
 against women and children (£1.9M, 2011-2017), and Fottrell leads work on diabetes control
 (MRC, £1.5M). In Africa, Colbourn leads work on reducing childhood pneumonia in Nigeria,
 (Save the Children, UK/GSK partnership, £1.7M), and Harling holds a Henry Dale Fellowship to
 understand HIV epidemics through research on social networks (Wellcome, £1.2M). In the UK
 and Europe, our research focuses on infectious diseases with global importance, including
 through Natsal-4 (Wellcome/ESRC/DH, Mercer, Sonnenberg, £7.2M, 2019-2024), the NIHR
 HPRU in HIV, STIs and BBVs (Sabin, £4.5M 2014-2020, renewed 2019), the UK Collaborative
 HIV Cohort and UK HIV Drug Resistance Database (MRC, Sabin, £2.1M, 2014-2019), the
 European Network of HIV/AIDS Cohort Studies (EU, Phillips, £1.7M 2011-2015), HIV
 prevention and testing strategies among men who have sex with men (NIHR, Rodger, £1.4M,
 2015-2020), and HPV treatment and prevention (NIHR, Gilson, £1.2M. 2013-2018). Abubakar
 leads a TB research network, including RID-TB (£2.5M, NIHR PGfAR, 2018-2023), E-DETECT TB
 (£1.8M, 2016-2019, EU), and collaborates through the Pan-African Network for Rapid Research,
 Response and Preparedness for Infectious Diseases Epidemics (PANDORA-ID-NET), which
 funds a multidisciplinary ‘One Health’ initiative in Africa (€10M, European and Developing
 Countries Clinical Trials Partnership).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Major institutional collaborations
 Institutional collaborations underpin much our research. ELSA (§1.6.A2) is a major collaboration
 between UCL (Steptoe), the Institute for Fiscal Studies, NatCen Social Research, and the
 University of Manchester, which contributes to harmonization of cohort data internationally,
 including in the US, Europe, China and India. The Lancet Countdown: Tracking Progress on
 Health and Climate Change (§1.3, §1.6.D) brings together 35 leading academic institutions and
 UN agencies from every continent (Costello). The collaboration tracks annual indicators of
 progress, empowering the health profession and supporting policymakers. UoA2
 (Lyratzopoulos) collaborates through CRUK CanTest (§3.4), a collaborative network of nine
 Universities (four in the UK, and in the US, Netherlands, Australia, and Denmark).

                                                                                          Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Many of our major institutional collaborations focus on improving health care delivery. Through
 UCL Partners we collaborate with >40 organisations across the NHS, higher education, local
 authorities, and industry and 6M citizens to improve patient care and population health. Our
 contribution to the NIHR Applied Research Collaboration represents a major initiative in
 applied health research with multiple successes (§1.3, 3.4). UoA2 played a leading role in
 establishing and developing the world’s first national institute for data science and health. Initially
 the UK Farr Institute (2013-2018, a collaboration of 18 UK universities and four sites), UoA2
 investigators made significant contributions to expanding to its successor HDR-UK (2018
 onwards, 22 universities, seven sites, Alliance, Hubs and Gateway), which has now been
 established as the MRC’s 5th Institute. UoA2 investigators who have shaped HDR-UK inter-
 institutional research priorities include Denaxas, Gilbert, Parmar, Sydes, and Hemingway.

 UoA2’s extensive work in clinical trials positions it at the heart of major trial networks and
 collaborations, including through the UKCRC Registered Clinical Trials Units Network and the
 UK Clinical Research Network (§1.3, §1.6.C). UoA2 was the core London Hub of the MRC
 Network of Hubs for Trials Methodology Research (HTMR), established to co-ordinate
 methodology research across the UK, develop new trial methodologies and train the next
 generation of methodologists. The network was initiated in 2008, and in 2018 became the MRC-
 NIHR Trials Methodology Research Partnership. The MRC CTU collaborates with >60
 countries worldwide, and collaborative trials have had notable impact, including as part of the
 International Network for Strategic Initiatives in Global HIV Trials (§1.6.C).

 Our work involves collaborations with many international health organisations. This includes
 AHRI, World Bank, WHO and European Centre for Disease Control (ECDC). The latter
 supported the TB in Cities Group, which led to further investment of EUR15M by the EU. UoA2
 also leads the SHAER Partnership of civil society organisations and academia from Afghanistan,
 Kashmir, Turkey, South Africa and Tunisia, addressing trauma from gender-based violence.

 4.2 Individual and team collaborations
 Our Unit’s institutional-level collaborations act to stimulate individual and team level
 collaboration: 89% of staff have collaborated with other UK organisations, and 86% with
 international organisations. Almost all UoA2 clinical trials benefit from collaborations, such as the
 prostate cancer PROMIS Trial (Brown) across 11 UK specialist hospitals and five academic
 institutions, and the Add Aspirin trial, collaborating with >120 hospitals nationally (Langley).
 While observational research such the National Surveys of Sexual Attitudes and Lifestyles
 (Natsal) have provided evidence underpinning public health policy, practice and research related
 to sexual health for >25 years through collaborations with policymakers and clinicians (Mercer,
 Sonnenberg; UCLUoA2_SON). Collaborations are frequently interdisciplinary, such as the
 NIHR Cancer Awareness Screening and Early Diagnosis Policy Research Unit (Deputy Director,
 Raine), a collaboration of 13 leading scientists from seven institutions working in partnership
 with the NIHR Health and Social Care Workforce Research Unit at King’s College London. The
 formation of such interdisciplinary collaborations is supported by seed-funding initiatives under
 UCL Grand Challenges and through institute-wide, interdisciplinary research domains, including
 the Population and Lifelong Health Domain. Hayward was co-director of the UK-Prevention
 Research Partnership ActEarly, a City Collaboratory approach to promote good health and
 wellbeing. This highly interdisciplinary partnership (bringing together researchers from transport,
 built environment, education, law, social determinants, epidemiology, public health, economics,
 modelling and geography) between Bradford and Tower Hamlets Local Authorities is developing
 strong links with communities to tackle the wider determinants of child health and establish
 strong local research cultures (Fancourt, Aldridge, Sheringham).

 UoA2’s research has wide international reach in South Asia (research leadership on violence
 against women and mental health: Osrin), USA, EU, South America (TBVac Study in Brazil,
 Abubakar, Devakumar), Australia (RCT methodology, Pett), China (psychological wellbeing in
 children; Hesketh), the Middle East (childhood nutrition: Skordis), South Asia (childhood


                                                                                                Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 infections and nutrition; Lakhanpaul, Heys), and sub-Saharan Africa (women and children’s
 health: Hill).

 External collaborations are supported by honorary research positions (Category C staff). In
 total, 368 individuals, many with NHS appointments, held such positions on the census date,
 with 40 at professorial level. In addition, UoA2 hosted more than 25 visiting academics from
 across the globe for >12 months, including Brazil (de Oliveria), Japan (Brunner), New Zealand
 (Murray), China (Steptoe), USA (Mercer) and Europe (Bobak).

 4.3 Contribution to the research base

    •   51% of staff have served on national/international grant committees (Law: Chair, UKRI
        MRC Applied Global Health Research Board; Sabin: Chair, ERC Advanced Grants
        Panel; Hart: Chair, MRC Public Health Intervention Development Panel, DfID/MRC
        African Research Leader Scheme, and MRC Adolescent Health in LMICs, 2019)
    •   24% of staff have been elected to learned societies/academies (including Johnson: Vice-
        President and now President, Academy of Medical Sciences) and 21% to other
        professional bodies (Viner: President, Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health;
        Fancourt: Chair, Royal Society for Public Health Special Interest Group Arts & Health;
        Fulop: Chair, Health Services Research UK; Johnson: Chair, UK Committee for
        Strategic Coordination of Health of the Public Research)
    •   52% of staff have given keynote lectures and 58% have contributed to organising
        conferences or meetings for their research community (Murray: Chair, Scientific
        Programme Committee, Medicine 2.0; Banerjee: keynote speaker, European Society of
        Clinical Pharmacy)
    •   46% of staff have served on editorial boards (Skuse: Editor, British Journal of Psychiatry
        International; Smith: Deputy Editor, Journal of International AIDS Society) and 87%
        regularly peer-review academic publications.
    •   Two-thirds of staff have examined doctorates and 76% regularly referee grant
        proposals from across the spectrum of funders, including MRC, Wellcome, UKRI, ESRC,
        NIHR, and Cancer Research UK (CRUK).
    •   Major prizes and awards to staff in recognition of their contributions include the CRUK
        Future Leader Prize, 2016 (Lyratzopoulos), Union Medal of International Union of TB
        and Lung Disease, 2018 (Nunn), and Andrija Stampar Medal, Association of Schools of
        Public Health of Europe, 2018 (Johnson).

 4.4 Collaboration with and contribution to the economy and society
 UoA2 staff collaborate with research users in many sectors of the economy and society. 53% of
 staff collaborated with industry, commerce, third sector or other users as part of their research.
 These activities are key to maintaining the vibrancy of our research environment given the huge
 benefits for knowledge transfer and opportunities to influence research priorities. This includes
 expert review, advice and engagement with industry, including pharma (Mocroft; Skordis) and
 in facilitating access to publicly funded data (Shelton directs CeLSIUS, enabling wider use of
 ONS data). Beyond the academic sphere, 88% of staff are engaged with groups including health
 practitioners, policymakers, and local communities. Many staff have key roles in influencing
 policy, public health practice and civil society initiatives: 52% have sat on expert
 committees outside the university sector including the NICE Public Health Advisory Committee
 (Chair, Law), NICE Clinical and Public Health Guidance for Tuberculosis (Co-chairs, Hayward,
 Abubakar), NICE Integrated Health and Social Care for People Experiencing Homelessness
 (Topic Advisor, Hayward), the Patient Panel of the Policy Research Group for Cancer (von
 Wagner), and committees setting international normative standards in health (Cambiano:
 European AIDS Treatment Group; Gibb: Global Advocacy for HIV Prevention). Contribution to
 the economy and society is further exemplified by the award of translational research funding
 (Freemantle; Gilbert), patents (Skuse; Dobson; Wu) and licensing (Murray). Staff are trained
 and supported in collaborating with industry and society by UCL Business and UCL Consultants
 (§3.2.2), SLMS TRO (§3.2.1), and UCL Public Engagement Unit.


                                                                                            Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.4.1 Response to the COVID-19 pandemic
 UoA2 has made major contributions to national and international efforts to understand and
 mitigate the impacts of COVID-19 (§1.6.1). Our research has directly contributed to decisions on
 lockdown and other non-pharmaceutical interventions, COVID-19 clinical case definitions,
 capacity planning for Test, Trace and Isolate, winter planning, prioritisation of vaccination, staff
 testing, school reopening, and nursing homes. Our staff are members of the government’s
 Oversight Committee of National Core Studies of COVID-19 (Johnson), Scientific Advisory
 Group for Emergencies (SAGE) (Hayward, Viner), SAGE Transmission Subgroup (Johnson,
 Hayward), SAGE Social Care subgroup (Shallcross), and Scientific Pandemic Influenza Group
 on Behaviours (SPI-B) (Potts). Hayward is a member of the New and Emerging Respiratory
 Virus Threats Advisory Group (NERVTAG) and Hayward and Hemingway were NERVTAG
 subgroup members advising on using electronic health records to inform vaccine prioritisation
 and shielding. Hayward was a member of the Pan London Homeless COVID-19 Response Co-
 ordinating Group, the London Rail COVID-19 advisory group, and the UKRI Rolling Call Review
 Panel for COVID-19 research. Steptoe was a member of the ESRC Rolling Call Panel for
 COVID-19 research. Abubakar is Scientific and Technical Adviser to the Nigerian COVID
 Presidential Advisory Group, member of the WHO COVID-19 Epidemiology Technical Advisory
 Group and Scientific Advisor to the House of Lords Science and Technology Committee Science
 of COVID-19 review. Field chaired the Royal Society’s Data Evaluation and Learning for Viral
 Epidemics (DELVE) working group. UoA2 staff co-authored the influential Academy of Medical
 Sciences report, ‘Coronavirus: preparing for challenges this winter’ (Harling, Field, Bailey,
 Johnson, Viner, Hayward). Our staff provided support and advice to international organisations
 and national governments and non-governmental organisations (Saville, Nepal; Seal, Somalia)
 contributing to critical food and nutrition security responses. Fancourt launched the COVID-
 MINDS Network: an international network of >140 longitudinal studies exploring the global
 mental health impact of the pandemic. UCL Health of the Public ‘Coronavirus: The Whole Story’
 podcast series highlights UCL’s cross-cutting research and expertise in tackling the COVID-19
 pandemic.

 4.4.2 NHS, health and social care
 Direct engagement with health and social care services is fundamental to our research. Major
 changes in the research accessibility and use of big data from the NHS underpins the 'practice
 to knowledge, knowledge to practice’ translational research across UoA2, and we contribute a
 national focus through HDR-UK, London. In 2017, we established the Clinical Research
 Informatics Unit (20 staff) tasked with bridging research collaborations across UCL and UCLH
 (Harris, Dobson). These leading initiatives bring together clinical services, informatics and
 educational strengths across university partners and the NHS to deliver population-wide
 translational research, with benefits to the public and patients, policymakers and industry.
 Further examples include research partnership with the DHSC investigating adverse childhood
 experiences (Lacey), NHS patient experiences and access to services (Lewis), and
 engagement with Clinical Commissioning Groups and Local Authorities (Walters). All UK-based
 clinical trials involve NHS partners, and all trials in UoA2 work with patient and public
 representatives who sit on trial committees.

 4.4.3 Policymakers
 Much of UoA2’s research informs national and international priorities and initiatives (§1.5). Staff
 routinely collaborate with central or local government bodies in the UK and abroad to influence
 policy. Examples include dedicated policy research units such as the Children and Families
 Policy Research Unit (Gilbert, Stephenson), Obesity Policy Research Unit (Viner), and
 membership of the Policy Research Unit in Cancer Screening, Awareness and Early Diagnosis
 (Raine), chair of the WHO TB Strategic and Technical Advisory Group (Abubakar), and expert
 contributions and advice to parliamentary bodies (Siassakos, UK; Bobek, EU). The Global
 Health 50/50 report (Hawkes), which addresses gender equality in global health, was
 foreworded by Jacinda Ardern PM of New Zealand, launched by the President of Ethiopia, and
 featured op-eds by our advisors including Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Director-General,
 WHO. The initiative engages directly with 140 global health organisations and has led to policy
 commitments to gender equality by major international organisations, such as UNICEF. Our

                                                                                              Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research has made major contributions to a diverse range of policy and practice guidelines
 including stroke (Pizzo), HIV (Rodger, Bansi-Matharu, Philips), cardiovascular disease
 (Hemingway), influenza immunisation of healthcare workers (Hayward), pneumonia
 (Colbourn), and mortality surveillance (Fottrell).

 4.4.4 Engagement with communities, schools and education professionals
 UoA2 demonstrates breadth and diversity in its interaction and partnership with communities.
 Nationally, this includes marginalised populations through the work of the UCL Collaborative
 Centre for Inclusion Health including people with experience of imprisonment (Black), drug use,
 homelessness and migration (Aldridge, Hayward), who are often engaged in the co-
 development of research design. The UCL Co-Production Collaborative supports researchers
 (Heys, Woodhead) to engage diverse voices in the prioritisation and development of research
 activities. Over a fifth of UoA2 staff have interacted, engaged or developed relationships with
 school and youth populations in the UK, often with an emphasis on widening participation in
 science and academia (Jones; White; Lewis, Viner). Internationally, much of our global health
 work revolves around community partnership and mobilisation to improve health outcomes
 including maternal mortality in Mexico (Gamlin), non-communicable diseases in Bangladesh
 (Fottrell), sexual health in South Africa (Harling), and women’s, children’s and adolescents’
 health in rural India (Prost), with the latter reaching an estimated 50,000 community groups in
 2015-2020. Such community engagement includes citizen participation in the interpretation of
 research findings (Mannell).

 In-person engagement and opportunities to collaborate with the public and groups typically not
 engaged in research are supported by funding and training through UCL Public Engagement.
 Since 2014, UCL Public Engagement have awarded 13 bursaries to advance UoA2’s practice
 and culture of public and community engagement on public health, health services and primary
 care. For example, Morrison’s engagement with communities about diabetes through Jeevan
 Shakti Mela - a Festival for Lifeforce in rural Nepal was highly commended in the 2020 Provost’s
 Public Engagement Awards. Delivery of events within the ESRC Festival of Social Science
 (Poole), Wellcome Packed Lunch, Cheltenham Science Festival, Science Museum Lates, TEDx
 talks and UCL’s Bright Club (Mercer) and extensive work with the Science Media Centre
 (Bedford) represent a range of innovative approaches to engagement.

 4.4.5 Collaboration with industry and research users
 A third of UoA2 staff have engaged with industry, either through research partnership, training,
 and/or translation (§3.2.2). This is often via consultancy (UCLC has attracted £7.8M to UoA2
 since 2014) to the pharmaceutical industry supporting clinical trials and intervention
 development (White; Shahab; Lumbers) or providing research training (Sabin). UoA2’s
 expertise in global health has further contributed to commercial-sector led intervention design
 and evaluation strategies, such as Mannell’s advisory role on Unilever’s women’s
 empowerment initiative in Kenya, and Skordis’s collaboration with World Bank on financing
 policies in Afghanistan, Peru, South Arica and Zimbabwe. Murray’s HeLP-Diabetes intervention
 been licensed for national roll out by NHS England and Rahi’s group have developed patient-
 reported outcome measures now under licence. Such licencing and engagement are supported
 by UCLC, UCLB and the Vice Provost (Enterprise) office.

 4.4.6 Media engagement
 We engage diverse communities in our research across many media platforms. 61% of staff
 have engaged with media coverage of their work, including national press and on terrestrial,
 free-to-air TV and radio. This includes all leading broadcast and print media, including wide-
 reaching programmes such as the BBC Today Programme, BBC Panorama, Channel 4 News,
 Newsnight, Wall Street Journal, The Times, NY Times, Economist, CNN, Al Jazeera, The
 Telegraph, The Guardian. Media engagement is encouraged and supported by UCL Press
 centrally and by institute-level communications strategies and professionals who provide support
 and training. UoA2 also has a strong presence on social media, with regular Podcasts, blogs
 and individual institute and research-group Twitter accounts reaching many followers (Costello
 >70k followers). The Marmot Review 10 years on, which highlighted widening of health

                                                                                          Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 inequalities received 85 million Twitter impressions. Public seminar series and the annual UCL
 Lancet Lecture Series, which has run since 2001 and included three Nobel Laureates, further
 help to maximise our research impact.

 Concluding comments
 The environment of our unit has advanced significantly since REF2014, supported by major
 investments. We prioritise vibrant, sustainable and multi-disciplinary approaches that support our
 staff to solve health problems across the globe. We actively engage with policy makers and
 stakeholders to maximise productivity, minimise public costs and deliver transformative benefits
 to individuals and communities.




                                                                                           Page 30
