Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: The University of Manchester
 Unit of assessment: 18 (Law)
Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
1.1 Overview
Law at the University of Manchester, which includes Criminology, has enjoyed a long and
distinguished history and has been a centre of legal teaching and research for more than
100 years. Following an extensive strategic review, in mid-2019 the then School of Law was
merged with the School of Social Sciences, (SoSS). This process also led to the separation
of law into two new stand-alone departments: the Law School and the Department of
Criminology. Prior to the incorporation of the Law school within SoSS, Criminology was
encompassed as a subject group within the School of Law. The overriding rationale for this
strategic reorganisation was to enable both new departments to deepen extant relationships
with several cognate social science departments housed within SoSS (not least, Sociology,
Philosophy, and Politics and International Relations), with a view to strengthening ongoing
research and teaching partnerships and fostering new synergies.

As in 2014, the Law Unit of Assessment (UoA) at Manchester incorporates the work of our
staff located within Law and Criminology. Both departments have a long history of
institutional and intellectual interaction. Both departments continue to advance respectively
legal and criminological scholarship as embedded, in broad terms, in the social sciences,
strengthened by their relocation within a world-leading School of Social Sciences.
Researchers in both departments are strongly committed to the use of social-scientific
and/or socio-legal approaches and to the conduct of research with a central societal focus.
Researchers in the UoA promote analysis of the law as a social domain that is uniquely able
to stimulate social change, leading to tangible societal benefits. This is evidenced across
the range of work produced in the UoA. From the study of human trafficking and modern
slavery to the analysis of global human rights law, to the development of new insights
pertaining to the impact of social structures on differential access to justice, much of the
UoA’s work advances fundamental scholarship that has broader impact beyond academia.

Our research is also shaped by the shared conviction that many legal and criminological
questions need to be examined from a global perspective. Accordingly, most UoA members
promote research agendas that move beyond national legal-political and jurisdictional
boundaries. This is reflected in the number of our publications concerned with comparative
or global legal questions. This is also reflected in our impact cases, three of which have
significant international reach, and two of which have a central emphasis on inter- or
transnational human rights protection.

The research culture in the UoA embraces diverse research methods which, in turn, are
deployed across sub-fields. Methodologies employed include classical doctrinal analysis;
empirical research (e.g. law and public policy; big data analysis; law and political economy;
law in context); normative-conceptual inquiry; and interdisciplinary approaches, using
methods more traditionally applied in Sociology, History, Political Science and Economics.
Many colleagues have engaged in pioneering inter- and cross-disciplinary research,
pushing at the traditional disciplinary limits of legal and criminological inquiry. This
interdisciplinary commitment is demonstrated by work crossing the boundaries between
Law and Philosophy (Brassington, D’Aspremont, Giordano, Holm, Wardhaugh);
between Law, Criminology and Sociology (Bui, Deakin, Diviak, Harris, Seddon, Thornhill,
Vannier); between Law and Economics (Galanis, Haskell, Hodu, Koukiadaki); between
Law and History (Handler, Lamont, Musa, Smith); and between Law and Gender Studies
(Bennett, Cobb, Garland, Keywood). This interdisciplinary commitment is also
demonstrated in collaborative initiatives with University Research Institutes, details of which


                                                                                       Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


are given below (Sections 1.3-1.4)

The social commitment, methodological breadth and global outlook embodied in our
research culture have enabled us to deliver a number of major successes. Key strategic
achievements since REF2014 include:

      Publishing 24 monographs and over 400 journal articles. A high proportion of
       research outputs have appeared with globally leading academic presses and in
       highly ranked journals, both generalist and subfield-specific.

      Developing Early Career Researchers (ECRs) into globally leading researchers
       and training Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs) for important academic
       positions. Many PGRs who graduated in the current cycle have published widely in
       high-ranking journals and assumed important academic positions in the UK and in
       other countries; some have already been promoted to senior academic positions
       (Section 2.7).

      Winning many prestigious international prizes and commendations for our
       research, including awards and distinctions from the Academia Europaea; Academy
       of Social Sciences; British Academy; British Criminological Association; Brazilian
       Government; European Society for Comparative Legal History; Humboldt Research
       Foundation; Royal Holland Society of Sciences and Humanities.

      Consolidating Important Partnerships and Knowledge Exchange
       Arrangements with key Stakeholders at local, regional, national, and
       international scales. Mechanisms underpinning this include the Justice Hub; the
       LawTech initiative; the N8 Policing Research Partnership (PRP); collaborations with
       African Society of International Law.

      Securing in excess of £4,313,000 in new external awards (and £3,978,477 in
       HESA reported spend), with a high proportion (38%) obtained from non-UK funding
       bodies, for example the European Commission, the Government of the Netherlands,
       and the Norwegian Government. Overall grant capture represents a significant
       increase of 65% since REF2014 (when our total award value was £2.6million), and
       reflects very substantial diversification of funding sources.

1.2. Unit Context and Structure
The Departments of Law and Criminology are situated in SoSS, which is one of four schools
in the Faculty of Humanities (FoH). The recent integration of both departments into SoSS
enables both departments in the UoA to capitalise more effectively on the intellectual
synergies and interdisciplinary emphases discussed above and to benefit from increased
administrative scale in support services at School level.

1.3 Criminology
With 16 staff, Criminology has maintained a high profile since 2014 in its traditional areas of
strength, notably domestic abuse and the regulation of drug consumption and drug markets.
At the same time, the Department has expanded its expertise in other areas, in particular in
human trafficking and modern slavery, and in white-collar and organised crime. Criminology
now produces research covering a wide spectrum of topics and applying a broad range of
methodologies – including: biographical and narrative approaches to interviewing;
psychosocial case analysis; network analysis; deliberative methods; qualitative and
quantitative longitudinal research; survey design and applied statistical analysis; and policy
analysis. Key research projects in Criminology have been conducted on: Food Fraud
(Medina, Lord); Intimate partner and Inner-familial Violence (Gadd, Miles); Risk


                                                                                       Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Assessment in Domestic Abuse Cases (Medina, Miles); Drug Markets in the Dark Web
(Aldridge); Transnational Organised Crime (Lord); Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking
(Broad, Gadd). Members of the department engage extensively with University Research
Institutes; for example, Diviak is a member of the Mitchell Centre for Social Network
Analysis and Buil Gil is affiliated to the Cathie Marsh Institute for Social Research. Major
outcomes of the above projects include Lord’s award-winning publications on white-collar
crime and corporate corruption (e.g. Corruption in Commercial Enterprise (2018) and
Negotiated Justice and Corporate Crime: The Legitimacy of Civil Recovery Orders and
Deferred Prosecution Agreements (2018)); Aldridge’s influential publications on the dark
web and cryptomarkets, resulting in high-level consultancy duties; prize-winning research
by Gadd and Broad on modern slavery. Outstanding ECR appointments (see Section 2.1)
have added important new dimensions to research activities in Criminology.

1.4 Law
In the Law Department, which has 40 members, the organization of research is divided
between three research centres and one research hub. All UoA members are attached to at
least one such unit. Together, these units have a core role in realising research strategies
by initiating and coordinating research activities. Each unit normally receives £3,000
annually from the Departmental budget to facilitate research initiatives and public events.
Leaders of the centres are responsible for organising research events, fostering and
coordinating the preparation of research funding applications, facilitating knowledge transfer
and research impact in non-academic communities, advising ECRs on research strategy
and funding opportunities, and creating openings for the presentation of research by PGRs.
The hub has a smaller, more informal structure, with similar functions and responsibilities.
While some research is exclusively aligned to one centre, there are also cross-cutting
collaborations, as department members can and do engage in the research of multiple
centres. The department fosters the research environment through joint research seminars,
public lectures, and international conferences. In addition to engagement with UoA-level
research centres, a number of UoA members are closely involved with University Research
Institutes. Koukiadaki is a member of the steering committee of the Work and Equalities
Institute (WEI) and leads one of the Centre’s themes (Business Transformation and Work
Futures). In 2020, Glover-Thomas obtained funding as Co-I for a research project on
mental capacity and personal finances with the Manchester Institute for Collaborative
Research on Ageing (MICRA).

The research centres and hubs in Law are as follows:

The Manchester Centre for Regulation, Governance and Public Law (ManReg)
ManReg is the largest research centre in Law, with 15 current researchers. Its members
conduct research on regulatory problems across a range of sectors, typically aiming to offer
solutions to problems of pressing societal importance. Since 2014 researchers in ManReg
have conducted research that: highlights the problematic legal consequences of Brexit
(Doukas; Dewhurst; Lamont); addresses legal results of austerity policies, presenting
critical models for reinforcing minority welfare protection (Harris) and for defending labour
rights and rights of collective bargaining in conditions of austerity (Koukiadaki); elaborates
new methodological perspectives for explaining health-care reform policies (Lynch-Wood);
clarifies changing principles of obligation in doctor-patient relations (Devaney); designs new
methodology to evaluate, from the perspective of affected parties, the efficacy of human
rights in police law (Smith). Work of particular salience has been produced in ManReg
concerning immigration law. Alongside Harris, Thomas has critically explained how recent
UK government policy has undermined access to justice amongst immigrant communities,
advancing arguments to rectify this problem. Human rights law constitutes an overarching
theme in ManReg. Many researchers have produced publications containing critical
analysis of the role and importance of human rights in regulation processes (e.g. Devaney;


                                                                                      Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Garcia Oliva; Harris; Lamont, J. Pearson; Smith; Thomas). Since 2014, publications on
regulation, representing a broad spectrum of scholarship across legal boundaries, have
appeared in prominent journals, including: British Medical Journal; European Journal of
Industrial Relations; Industrial Law Journal; Journal of Social Security Law; Legal Studies;
Medical Law Review; Modern Law Review; Public Law; Regulation & Governance.

The Centre for Social Ethics & Policy (CSEP)
Research in CSEP is focused on healthcare ethics and medical law. The centre has 12
current members, including Brazier (Emerita). Members of the centre are connected by the
endeavour to promote research that crosses the frontiers between Law, Medicine and Moral
Philosophy, applying moral philosophy to clarify legal problems arising in medical practice.
CSEP members have advanced new theoretical outlooks to address right-to-life questions
with reference to assisted suicide and euthanasia (Giordano), the law of informed consent
(Bennett; Glover-Thomas), the role of criminal law in medicine and healthcare (Brazier;
Mullock), mental health and capacity issues (Holm; Keywood), reproductive rights and
reproductive health (Giordano; Keywood; Odell-West). Publications since 2014 have
appeared in a number of prestigious journals in different disciplines, including: Bioethics;
British Journal of Midwifery; British Medical Journal; Cambridge Quarterly of Healthcare
Ethics; International Journal of Law and Psychiatry; Journal of Ethics; Journal of Medical
Ethics; Medical Law Review; The American Journal of Bioethics.

Manchester International Law Centre (MILC)
The Manchester International Law Centre is a new Centre, founded in 2014, with 7 current
members. MILC’s research focuses both on traditional questions of international and inter-
state law and analysis of global processes of legal norm construction. In the more traditional
sphere of international law, Hodu’s work has developed new perspectives in analysis of the
WTO and Musa’s research has assessed neglected questions of victim reparation in post-
bellum contexts. D’Aspremont’s work is designed to challenge inherited theoretical
constructions of the sources international law; its importance is reflected inter alia in the fact
that he co-edited The Oxford Handbook on The Sources of International Law (2017).
Research on global law is represented by Thornhill’s works, which elaborate a new
historical-theoretical approach to the global-legal preconditions of democracy. Publications
in this field since 2014 have appeared in prestigious outlets such as: African Journal of
International and Comparative Law; American Journal of International Law; British
Yearbook of International Law; European Journal of International Law; International Theory;
Journal of Law and Society; Leiden Journal of International Law; Modern Law Review;
Netherlands International Law Review; Theory and Society; University of Toronto Law
Journal.

Private and Commercial Law (research hub)
The Law department has a small but important group of 8 researchers working, broadly, on
Private and Commercial Law, organised since 2015 in a free-standing research hub. This
hub has generated important publications on intellectual property law, financial regulation
and taxation law. Booton’s work on form in intellectual property law advances a new
explanation of the role of judicial decision making in intellectual property. Lovdahl-
Gormsen’s work provides analysis of emerging problems in European state aid and
international taxation law. This hub has also generated a body of innovative theoretical
work, adopting philosophical and critical-theoretical approaches to Commercial Law. Such
theoretical emphasis is exemplified by Wardhaugh’s work, applying principles of moral
philosophy to examine cartel law and competition law. Such emphasis is reflected in the
critical analysis of regulatory responses to the 2008 financial crisis advanced by Bavoso
and in the critical-theoretical publications of Galanis, identifying deep conflicts between
corporate law and social autonomy. This hub has produced cutting-edge research on
COVID-19, examining how legal constructs might adapt to emergency marketing of


                                                                                          Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


products (Howells). Since 2014, publications from the Commercial Law hub have appeared
in numerous prestigious journals, including: Cambridge Yearbook of European Legal
Studies; Columbia Journal of European Law; Competition Law Review; European
Competition Journal; Intellectual Property Quarterly; Journal of Business Law; Journal of
European Competition Law & Practice; Journal of International Economic Law; Legal
Studies.

1.5 Strategic Research Aims for Law and Criminology during the Assessment Period
In REF2014, seven strategic aims were identified for Law and Criminology. The primary and
overlying strategic objective was: To improve all aspects of the quality of our research. A
series of six subsidiary action headers set out more specific aims required to realise this
primary overlying objective. These six aims have shaped the development of the UoA’s
research environment, culture, and activities.

Actions to progress our strategic priorities were as follows:

1. To develop and invest in key research areas with internationally excellent or world-
leading potential:
Since 2014, research priorities and expertise in the UoA have maintained a blend of stability
rooted both in the consolidation of core strengths and the promotion strategic evolution.
Both departments have continued to invest in high-performing researchers. They have done
this by supporting colleagues through promotion procedures and maintaining stringent
criteria for appointment. Outstanding colleagues have been recruited and promoted at all
levels of seniority (see Section 2). Priority investments have been made in MILC,
Regulation and Criminology, focused on the recruitment of outstanding ECRs. International
visibility of research is underpinned by UoA-level support for staff to show-case research in
international fora (see Section 4).

2. To enhance and diversify external income generation:
Extensive support, both monetary and administrative, is provided to enable and improve
submission of grant applications. This has helped the UoA to obtain prestigious awards (see
Section 3.1) and to maintain and improve its position in the increasingly competitive funding
market, with a high proportion of revenue obtained outside the UK.

3. To ensure that research excellence drives staff recruitment, probation, promotion
and reward:
Recognition of research excellence plays a fundamental role in recruitment and promotion
policies (see Section 2.4), and all core domains of research performance are weighted
accordingly in such policies. Exacting standards are applied to assess research
performance in probation and promotion decisions.

4. To intensify the potential impact of research:
Strategies to maximise the impact of research have been supported by the appointment of a
designated Impact Officer within the Faculty team, who supports the UoA Impact Lead
(Keywood). Impact-related research is strongly incentivised at UoA, School and Faculty
level. Assessment of potential impact activities is included in yearly performance reviews,
and particular importance is attached to the impact of research in promotions. Knowledge
transfer and impact is one of four research domains for consideration in promotion
decisions. UoA members have been very successful in obtaining ESRC Impact Acceleration
Account Awards, which enable employment of assistants and postdoctoral researchers for
impact-related research (see Section 3.4). Policy@manchester help to place our research in
the public sphere and to feed research outcomes into law reform consultations and policy
reviews.



                                                                                     Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


5. To build, service and maintain an outstanding community of PGR students:
The UoA has actively promoted an internationalisation agenda in PGR recruitment,
reflecting priorities regarding research with global reach. As a result, we have recruited
successfully amongst high-quality non-UK students, developing a distinctive global profile in
PhD training. International PGRs have been supported by studentships from the
Commonwealth Split site fund, Sasakawa Foundation, Japan Student Services
Organisation (JASSO), and the ERC. An excellent cohort of international PGRs is currently
in training. PGR intake in 2018-19 was almost 50% international.

6. To provide a supportive and collegial environment for research excellence:
Research mentoring is provided for all colleagues on request and is built into probation
arrangements. All members of the professoriate have mentoring responsibilities for non-
professorial colleagues. Research mentoring is provided for postdoctoral researchers,
independently of the projects to which they are attached. All PGRs and postdoctoral
researchers are attached to research centres and have access to additional funds to
support their research (see Section 2.6).

1.6 Future Research Strategy
Our main future strategic aims will be to:

       Build upon research strengths and consolidate new areas of internationally
        recognised expertise.
Two principal strategies will inform our future research agenda. A social-scientific, socio-
legal and/or human rights focus will remain embedded in all subfields. Emphasis will be
placed on continued promotion of cutting-edge and interdisciplinary methods. Realisation of
these aims will be facilitated by the fact that the UoA is now part of SoSS, where new
research agendas and projects are already taking shape that traverse disciplinary
boundaries. For example, jointly with other colleagues in SoSS and the Business School,
Lord is leading the development of the Digital Trust and Security Research Centre. The
Centre, which was initially a recipient of £1.1m investment from the President Investment
Fund and the Faculty of Humanities, will have six core research streams: (1) Privacy, Trust,
Data Protection (led from Social Statistics); (2) Cybercrime, Criminals, Victims (led by Lord
in Criminology); (3) Workplace Security (led from the Business School); (4) Trust and
Democracy (led from Politics); (5) Trusted Digital Systems (led from Computer Science); (6)
Advanced Mathematics (led from Mathematics). This new Centre is a flagship part of the
University’s wider investment in the Digital Futures interdisciplinary collaboration and of the
UoM-wide initiative to develop a partnership with GCHQ and other Greater Manchester
stakeholders, which is due to launch early in 2021.

       Intensify our internationalisation agenda and expand international research
        collaborations.
The UoA has a number of members with high profiles both in established and in growing
academic economies, reflected in particular in international collaborations and translation of
research in Africa, China and South America. Measures will be implemented to prioritise the
internationalisation of our research, maximising the benefits to be drawn from existing
strengths and reputations. This strategy will be pursued through the increased formalisation
of research links with leading institutions in different regions; targeted dissemination of
research in globally important outlets; coordinated development of research and impact-
oriented agendas with global reach and entailing global collaborations; continued
submission of funding applications with non-UK colleagues and to non-UK funding bodies.
The Faculty Associate Dean for Internationalisation (Howells) is a member of the Law
Department.

      Intensify interdisciplinary social science collaborations.


                                                                                        Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Following the merger with SoSS, the UoA is now part of one of Europe’s leading Social
Science Schools, and we will take all steps to ensure that the UoA profits appropriately from
this position. Intensified research collaboration with other disciplines in SoSS and with
University Research Institutes will reinforce already existing strengths in socio-legal
research and is a core future objective. Such collaboration is already at an advanced stage
in some areas. This is evident, for example, in joint research conducted in Criminology by
Lord and Deakin with colleagues in Sociology, respectively Everett, Bellotti, and Pilkington.

      Expand local, national and global research impact.
The UoA will build on its long history of promoting knowledge transfer and generating real-
world impacts, both within and beyond the UK. The UoA will continue to attach priority to
research that examines and helps to utilise law as an instrument for addressing pressing
social challenges, regionally, nationally and globally. Such agendas are likely to include
research on law in the UK after Brexit; challenges to international law in global society;
weaknesses in national and global human rights systems; state abuses and criminal justice
failings. A large impact-oriented project is about to commence on judicial reform policies in
semi-authoritarian states, funded by the Swedish Research Council (with Thornhill as Joint
PI). A dedicated impact team will continue to lead the promotion of impact activities.

The organisational foundations for delivering impact strategies are already robust, and a
number of partnerships with a strong impact focus are based in, or closely linked to, the
UoA. G. Pearson is Academic Director for the N8 Policing Research Partnership (N8 PRP).
This Consortium is funded by 11 police forces in Northern England, and it serves as a key
regional forum for collaboration between academics and the police. Jointly with AMBS and
the School of Computer Science, the Law department is co-host to The Manchester Law &
Technology Initiative (LawTech). Fronted in the UoA by Haskell, this initiative facilitates
exchanges between academia and industry, providing a forum in which participating
stakeholders and University experts can examine questions arising for the legal sector from
the emergence of new technologies. The UoM Justice Hub is also based in the UoA, which
works with key regional and national stakeholders including solicitors, barristers, law firms,
the Civil Justice Centre, charities and medical practitioners (Section 4.3).

1.7 Research Ethics
Research integrity in the UoA is ensured through compulsory peer review of research
proposals at School level. All projects go through ethical approval by the University
Research Ethics Committee (UREC). All staff and PhD students receive mandatory training
in good practice for research integrity and ethics and follow the University’s robust ethics
procedures and Code of Good Research Conduct. The UoA participates fully in UoM ethical
review processes. Holm, from the UoA, was appointed (in 2020) to the central university
position of UoM Academic Director for Research Governance, Ethics and Integrity.

1.8 Open Access
The UoA targets a high level of compliance with Open Access requirements and works
closely with the Library to ensure that this goal is realised (Section 2.5 REF5a). Funding is
made available by the Library and at School-level to ensure that research outputs are
available in Open Access. As measured in November 2020, some outputs for which Open
Access rights have been secured have obtained impressive download statistics and
Altmetric Attention Scores. Gadd’s ‘The Dynamics of Domestic Abuse and Drug and
Alcohol Dependency’ is in the top 5 most frequently read articles in the British Journal of
Criminology. Aldridge’s, ‘Effect of Restricting the Legal Supply of Prescription Opioids on
Buying through Online Illicit Marketplaces’, which appeared in British Medical Journal, has
seen over 22,159 accesses to the full paper and 3068 full PDF downloads. Williams’s
‘Adding Spice to the Porridge’, published in International Journal of Drug Policy, has an
attention score of 124 and has been viewed 16,206 times from Science Direct. Her paper


                                                                                       Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


‘The Use of Synthetic Cannabinoid Receptor Agonists (SCRAs) within the Homeless
Population’, published in Addiction Research and Theory in 2020, has an attention score of
52, with 1862 views. D’Aspremont’s ‘Guiding Principles on Shared Responsibility in
International Law’, published in European Journal of International Law (2020), has an
attention score of 46.
Section 2: People
 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Development
 The UoA is home to 56 academics with research duties. This number includes 14
 Professors, 2 Readers, 27 senior lecturers, 10 lecturers, 3 research fellows. We have
 made excellent appointments since early 2014 to enhance our research strengths,
 appointing 9 permanent lecturers (Bavoso (now promoted to SL), Bui, Butler (now SL);
 Cunningham, Garland (now SL), Musa, J. Pearson, Solymosi, Vannier) and 7 Senior
 Lecturers (Fox, Galanis, Haskell, Koukiadaki, Lamont, G. Pearson, Wardhaugh).
 Strategic priorities have played a key role in appointment processes. Wardhaugh and
 Cunningham were appointed to strengthen research in Commercial Law; Haskell has
 brought additional interdisciplinary expertise in International Law; Koukiadaki has
 brought internationally prominent expertise in Employment Law and labour-market
 regulation. A series of outstanding ECR appointments have brought distinctive range and
 depth to our research coverage. Above all, newly appointed ECRs have enhanced the
 UoA’s culture of cutting-edge methodological innovation. For example, Bui has brought
 high-profile research on psychological approaches to violence, deploying narrative
 techniques to examine crime in Japan; Garland has added ground-breaking research on
 intersex rights, combining policy-linked emphases on health law, sexualities and human
 rights law; Musa has added award-winning research on human rights law, international
 dispute resolution, and historiographical approaches to international law; Solymosi has
 brought expertise in quantitative analysis in the field of transport crime and safety;
 Vannier has brought pioneering comparative research on life imprisonment.

 New appointees are given challenging targets for research delivery and support to meet
 these targets. Mentoring arrangements to support research are put into effect where
 required. All appointments reflect the UoA’s commitment to internationalisation and
 gender balance. 50% of appointees recruited since 2014 are not UK citizens and 43% are
 women. Only 2 members of staff are employed on fixed-term contracts.

 2.2 Research Management Roles
 The academic management of the School’s research activities is overseen by the School
 Research Director, who chairs the School Research Committee. The School Research
 Director is supported by the School PGR and Social Responsibility Directors. Since 2016,
 the School research strategy has been supported by new roles in Internationalisation and
 Business Engagement and, since 2018, by a Research Contract Staff Network Co-
 ordinator. The School Research Director sits on the Humanities Research Strategy
 Committee, which meets six times per year and co-ordinates the Faculty’s research
 strategy. Research in the UoA as a whole is coordinated by the UoA lead, who for much
 of this REF cycle also acted as Director of Research (DR) in Law (Thornhill 2017-2020;
 D’Aspremont 2020-). Research in Criminology is overseen by a Departmental DR (Gadd
 2019-). In Law, some research-management duties are assumed by an Assistant Director
 of Research (Wardhaugh 2018-). DRs have responsibility for maintaining performance in
 research by evaluating publications, mapping publications against national standards by
 overseeing external evaluations of research, and by advising researchers on potential
 research strategies. DRs also liaise with research centres and hubs to advise UoA
 members regarding grant applications and publication strategies. Both DRs in the UoA
 report on a monthly basis to the School Research Committee, which reports in turn to the
 Faculty of Humanities Research Committee.


                                                                                    Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 The UoA is deeply committed to, equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI). It gained Athena
 SWAN Bronze accreditation in 2017 in recognition of its gender equality and diversity
 activities and achievements. We are currently progressing implementation of our action
 plan towards a silver award. On several indicators, the EDI profile has improved through
 the REF period. Three women professors have assumed leading management positions
 at Faculty level (Aldridge; Bennett; Glover-Thomas). EDI policies have shaped internal
 appointments regarding REF preparation and selection and they are strongly reflected in
 the allocation of general administrative responsibilities. The UoA impact lead is female
 British, and the incoming RD is male non-British. The Head of the Law Department
 (Hodu), with first-stage responsibility for research performance monitoring, is male non-
 British and self-identifies as BAME. The Head of the Criminology Department, with first-
 stage responsibility for research performance monitoring, was up to September 2020
 male non-British (Medina) and his replacement is female non-British (Aldridge).

 The Faculty has an Equality and Diversity Officer and an active Equality and Diversity
 Working Group, responsible for reviewing and updating policy. Training in Equality and
 Diversity (E&D) and in unconscious bias is available for all staff and is mandatory for
 those involved in recruiting staff and students, and in selecting outputs for REF. The UoA-
 level E&D policy is overseen by the School E&D Committee (established in 2014, with
 representation from ECRs since 2016). This Committee receives annual reports on E&D
 from each Department, and the School Director of Social Responsibility submits an
 annual report to it on E&D in staff and PGR recruitment, promotions, and the gender pay
 gap. A School ‘caring costs fund’ was introduced in 2018, which allows all academic staff
 (including fixed-term) and PGRs to apply for money to cover the costs of looking after
 children or other dependents while away from home outside working hours, e.g. attending
 a conference or presenting a paper. Reports containing equality data, concerning for
 example gender distribution across salary bands, are presented in public forums such as
 School Board Meetings, Faculty Probation and Promotions Committees, and are
 monitored centrally.

 2.4 Career Development
 Career development of UoA members is underpinned by extensive training in research
 skills. This includes the HEA-accredited New Academics Programme, which has five
 modules on research-related skills, and University training in core skills, such as project
 management and research methods (supported by the Faculty-funded initiative
 methods@manchester and UoM Library). Career development is also underpinned by
 probationary arrangements and by a system of Performance and Development Review
 (PDR). PDRs are normally conducted annually for all staff; they can be conducted more
 frequently if requested. PDRs normally entail a one-hour performance analysis between
 the UoA member and a trained reviewer. PDRs are used to evaluate workload balance, to
 assess individual research activities and plans, to set performance targets, to identify
 support and training needs, and, where required, to appoint research mentors. PDRs are
 designed to reflect expectations for colleagues at different career stages, and they are
 also used to project career-enhancement strategies for postdoctoral researchers.
 Retention of high-performing ECRs is a vital part of our research strategy. We pursue this
 objective by providing ECRs with indicative promotion targets, and by supporting them
 through the promotion process. The Head of School has run a ‘promotion workshop’ each
 year, to ensure that members of staff understand the promotion criteria, and learn how to
 provide evidence that they have been met. The School Promotions Committee (SPC)
 operates a ‘dry run’ each year to consider draft applications (including CVs and
 supporting statements from senior colleagues) and provide feedback on prospective
 applications. All staff sitting on the SPC undertake unconscious bias training, and the


                                                                                      Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Chair of the School’s E&D Committee sits on SPC.

 During the current cycle 14 lecturers have been promoted to Senior Lectureships and 4
 Senior Lecturers and 1 Reader have been promoted to Professorships. Two ECRs that
 joined the UoA since 2014 have now been promoted to Senior Lectureships. Former
 colleagues that have exited the UoA have typically moved to more senior posts at other
 HEIs, including Kings College London (x2) and the Universities of Belfast, Reading,
 Southampton, Surrey.

2.5 Workload Management
All permanent members of the UoA have broadly equal workloads (40% teaching, 40%
research, 20% administration). Flexible working arrangements are offered, where required,
for UoA members with caring responsibilities. It is School policy that new permanent
colleagues have a 50% reduction of teaching in year 1 and a 25% reduction in year 2 of
their employment. This arrangement is intended to enable ECR colleagues to establish
their research profiles and to consolidate research networks and activities, including
consolidating their research skills through completion of the New Academics Programme.
The School has a policy of reducing teaching loads for colleagues assuming major
leadership roles in School, to allow leaders to remain research active.

2.6 Individual Research Support
Each UoA member is normally allocated £2K per annum to support her or his research.
These funds are additional to resources that researchers can access through external
research awards. Through the University’s academic leave policy, colleagues are entitled
to apply for one semester of academic leave in every seven semesters, subject to
producing a research plan and final report. Including colleagues no longer in the UoA, 56
FTEs took research leave in the current REF period. A Faculty-funded Professorial
Enhanced Research Leave competition was introduced in 2016/17, which can be used to
provide additional sabbatical leave for Professors. Workload adjustments are made where
UoA members have secured external research funding for projects or research
fellowships, and external research funding brings a fractional reduction in each area of
professional responsibility (teaching and administration).

2.7 Postgraduate Researchers
PGR scholarship is administered and supported at University level, Faculty level and at
School level, and training provision for PGRs is provided at each level. Skills and
development training is offered through the University’s Manchester Doctoral College and
the Faculty’s Researcher Development Programme, to which members of the UoA
contribute. Training is also made available through specialist research design and
methods programmes organised by methods@manchester, highlighting UoM’s strength in
research methods in the social sciences. Additional dedicated training sessions are
organised at UoA level; one example is the Biomedical Jurisprudence methods workshop
series. Further training programmes are organised by Methods North West, supported by
the ESRC’s North West Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP).

Since early 2014, over 100 postgraduate researchers have graduated from our
programmes. PGR scholarship is concentrated in Healthcare Law and Ethics, International
Law, Criminology, Comparative Constitutional Law, Public Law and Regulation, but all
areas of research attract PGRs. Structures for ensuring success of PGR programmes are
constantly reviewed, and the UoA engaged in best-practice consultations with other SoSS
units to improve PGR completion rates. As a result, we implemented new support
measures, which provide additional supervision for PGRs in the final stages of doctoral
study.



                                                                                  Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Over half of our PGRs are supported by studentships. Since 2014, 12 PhD studentships
 have been funded by external funding bodies (2x ERC; 3x AHRC, 4x ESRC, 1x N8
 Policing Research Partnership; 1x Wellcome Trust; 1 x EPSRC). A further 43 PhD
 studentships have been funded from UoM investment (e.g. School of Law, Presidential
 Doctoral Scholarships). Each PGR has two supervisors, and additional mentoring is
 offered, if required, to those in the final year of their registration. The progression of PGRs
 through their programme is supported by eProg, an online portal in which students and
 supervisors record details of meetings, review progress and book training activities.

PGRs are provided with assistance in developing intellectual and personal networks within
and beyond the UoA. To encourage conference attendance and to facilitate fieldwork, a
Research Training Support Grant of £2,000 is made available to every PGR. Further
funding can be accessed for PGRs who are presenting their research findings at
conferences. Each year a PGR conference is held in the UoA, which engages staff and
PGRs, bringing all the PGRs together to present and publicly to engage in debate about
their research. Through the UoA’s membership in the North West Social Science Doctoral
Training Partnership and the North West Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership, PGRs
are integrated in postgraduate research activities across the region. Within the UoA, PGRs
are assigned to one research centre or hub, where they are encouraged to contribute to
general research activities (e.g. delivering presentations, attending conferences), and to
participate in dedicated PGR initiatives. PGR-led initiatives have met with considerable
success. The Women in International Law Network (WILNET) was established by a group
of female PGRs and postdoctoral researchers in the UoA, and it launched its annual
lecture series in 2019. PGRs in Health Law and Bioethics secured funding to host and
organise the 2015 Postgraduate Bioethics Conference. A number of PGRs in MILC are
currently contributing to the Oxford Database on International Organisations (OXIO). The
database is a unique repository for acts and practices of international organisations.

 Many of our PGRs have published papers in leading journals during their studies. Our
 distinctive PGR programme in Biomedical Jurisprudence encourages the publication of
 research as a core part of the doctoral qualification, and it has generated a rising total of
 over 60 publications by PGR scholars since 2014. There are also impressive examples of
 research collaboration between researchers and supervisors on our conventional PhD
 programme. Illustrative of such collaboration are co-authored publications in: International
 Journal of Drug Policy (Askew/Aldridge 2017); University of Toronto Law Journal
 (Calabria/O’Loughlin/Thornhill 2018); Public Law (Tomlinson/Thomas 2019); Cambridge
 Yearbook of European Legal Studies (Tomlinson/Lovdahl Gormsen 2018); Medical Law
 Review (Lawrence/Brazier 2018); Journal of International Dispute Settlement (Ajibo/Hodu
 2015); European Journal of Risk Regulation (Pilgerstorfer/Howells 2020). Especially
 noteworthy among our PGRs is the case of Romanis, who in 2020 won the UoM
 Distinguished Achievement Medal for PGR Student of the Year (Humanities). During her
 studies she published single-authored articles in several leading journals, including
 Journal of Medical Ethics, Medical Law Review and Bioethics, and she was appointed
 (2020) to a post as Assistant Professor of Biolaw at the University of Durham. In 2018,
 Sullivan won the Manchester Doctoral College Best Outstanding Output Award (Faculty of
 Humanities). PGRs also frequently reinforce the UoA’s commitment to conducting
 research with strong social impact. One notable example is Tomlinson, appointed
 Lecturer at KCL (2016) and then Senior Lecturer at York University (2018), whose
 collaborative work with his supervisor (Thomas) has resulted in a number of articles and
 policy briefs and in his contribution to one of our Impact Cases, concerned with access to
 tribunals.

 The research strengths of our PGRs are exemplified by their professional destinations on
 completion. PGRs who have graduated since 2014 have gained permanent and


                                                                                        Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 temporary lecturing posts at prestigious and regionally salient HEIs, in the UK and in
 other countries. These include, for instance: University of Durham (O’Loughlin; Romanis);
 KCL and then (as Senior Lecturer) York University (Tomlinson); Kos University and then
 UoM (Aral); Exeter University (Gola); Bristol University (Burton); Lancaster University (Al-
 Astewani; O'Donovan; Williams); Universidade Federal de Pernambuco (Recife, Brazil)
 (Calabria); Loughborough University (Kay); Maynooth University (Gibson); University of
 Nigeria (Ajibo); Keele University (Alger; Laura Pritchard-Jones); Leeds University (Carter-
 Walshaw; Clough (now promoted to SL); Purshouse); Leicester University (Bone);
 Liverpool University (Horton; Waxman; Gordon); University of Hong Kong (Belcher);
 National University of Singapore (Voo Tec Chuan); UoM (Aral; Broad; Buil-Gil;
 Floodgate; Inversi; Turner); Newcastle University (Lawrence).

 2.8 Postdoctoral Researchers
 The UoA takes great pride in its community of postdoctoral researchers and it has proven
 to be an excellent professional springboard for many of them. UoM has a Concordat
 Implementation Plan to ensure full support for the Concordat for the Career Development
 of Researchers (see REF 5a Institutional Statement), to which the UoA fully adheres.

 Since 2014, the UoA has housed 22 full-time and part-time postdoctoral researchers.
 Postdoctoral researchers are closely integrated into UoA-level research activities, and
 they are offered opportunities to participate in independent research and to develop an
 autonomous research profile. All postdoctoral researchers have access to funding that is
 separate from the research projects to which they are attached, and all are encouraged to
 publish independently, as well as with PIs. Postdoctoral researchers have enriched the
 research of the UoA in numerous ways. Some have co-authored publications with PIs in
 journals of the highest international standing (e.g. University of Toronto Law Journal;
 Theory and Society). Some, for instance Smirnova, have played a vital role in enhancing
 the impact profile and the broader societal contribution of the UoA, and their work is
 reflected in our Impact Cases. Some postdoctoral researchers have conducted research
 in the UoA which, on publication, has garnered important international awards and
 recognition. For example, Berkes, who was employed in the UoA until 2018, received the
 2019 article prize from Israel Law Review.

 After leaving UoM, many postdoctoral researchers have entered employment in other
 research-intensive HEIs and Research Institutes. These include Bangor University
 (Loftus, now promoted to SL); Brunel University (Berkes); City University (Cook); Dundee
 University (Droubi); Lancaster University (Benson); Maastricht University (Muller); Max-
 Planck Institute for Social Anthropology (Halle, Germany) (Cespedes); Middlesex
 University (Acik); Staffordshire University (Davies); Sussex University (Gentili); University
 of Western Australia (Dagbanja, now promoted to SL).

 Importantly, postdoctoral researchers who have elected not to pursue academic careers
 have obtained important positions in other sectors. These positions include Engagement
 Officer at Knowsley Council (Harragan); Social Researcher for the Scottish Government
 (Ritchie); Associate Human Rights Officer in the Office of the High Commissioner for
 Human Rights at the United Nations (Smirnova); Director of Citizens Juries Community
 Interest Company (Oswald)

Section 3: Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Awards
 Since 2014, the UoA has obtained research grants from prestigious sources, with awards
 during the REF period totalling circa £4,313,000, a 27% increase on the previous REF
 period. We have successfully targeted research income from sources other than RCUK


                                                                                       Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 during the current REF period, which means that income generation in the UoA has
 diversified substantially. Examples of such funding include: £1,482,699 from the EU
 (including ERC); £315,270 from charities; £113,938 from commercial sources. The UoA is
 one of a very select group of UK Law Schools to have housed a project supported by an
 ERC Advanced Grant.

 Approximately 60% of permanent staff have held grants as PI or Co-I. Notable grants,
 whose linked outputs are represented in REF2, include:

       ESRC: ‘Food Fraud: A supply network integrated systems analysis’ (Spencer),
        £410,803

       ERC: ‘A Sociology of the Transnational Constitution’ (Thornhill), £979,068

       ESRC: ‘Understanding and improving risk assessment on domestic abuse cases’
        (Medina), £417,188

       ESRC: ‘The perpetrators of Modern Slavery Offences: Motivations, Networks and
        Backgrounds’ (Gadd), £283,213

       EU: ‘PROMoting youth Involvement and Social Engagement: Opportunities and
        challenges for 'conflicted' young people across Europe – PROMISE’ (Deakin),
        £426,688

       ESRC: ‘Autonomy, Rights and Children with Special Needs: A New Paradigm?’
        (Harris), £194,368

 3.2 Funding Applications and Research Support Infrastructure
 Support for research is organised at different institutional levels. Structures that underpin
 and enable the development of research projects are established at University level, by
 UoM Research Institute (UMRI), as well as at Departmental, School, and Faculty level.

 At University level, submission of collaborative grant bids is supported by the UMRI and
 by the Business Engagement Team. Pump-priming funds of up to £50,000 per bid are
 available via the UMRI. The UoM Business Engagement Team provides support to
 promote diversification of research funding and to extend collaboration beyond academia.
 The School Business Engagement Lead is a member of the UoA (Garcia Oliva).
 Investment to pump-prime larger bids is also provided by the ESRC Impact Acceleration
 Account (see Section 3.4 below).

 At Faculty level, the Humanities Strategic Investment Fund (HSIF) supports activities
 related to the University’s strategic research goals and internationalisation strategy, and
 Social Responsibility funds support public engagement activities. HSIF provides funding
 of (usually) up to £15K per bid to develop large collaborative bids and first grant
 applications. The Simon and Hallsworth endowments fund a number of visiting
 professorships each year, from which the UoA has greatly benefited (Section 4.2). The
 School’s Director of Research oversees the School Research Budget, which increased
 from £25,000 per annum in 2014 to £64,000 in 2018/19. The research budget for
 2019/2020 is £105,000. From this, SoSS dedicates annual Social Responsibility funds
 (£20,000 in 2019-20), an Internationalisation budget (£40,000), and a Business
 Engagement budget (£10,000). Since 2015, SoSS has run a competitive biannual
 competition for small grants (of up to £2,000) for grant preparation, impact and
 engagement, networks and collaboration and internationalisation.


                                                                                        Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research and impact are supported by a Professional Services team in the Faculty and
 School. The Research Support Hub provides assistance, in terms of logistics, finance and
 personnel, for development of bids and management of projects. The Hub Office includes
 a Research Support Manager and four Research Support Officers (RSOs). Law and
 Criminology have a dedicated RSO, and a full-time Knowledge Exchange and Impact
 Officer. SoSS has invested significantly in research structures and support in this REF
 period. Since 2018, the Grant Management and Administration Team (GMAT),
 comprising a half-time manager and two administrators, provides post-award support for
 externally funded grants. From 2018-19, SoSS employed a full-time Research Promotion
 Manager, who assisted with opportunities for media and policy and public engagement. In
 2019, this post was folded into an expanded External Relations unit (5 people). This unit
 supports the School’s external profile, website, and research-related business
 engagement activities. It also assists with organising conferences, workshops and other
 research events (e.g. budgeting, booking venues, catering and accommodation, making
 conference packs for delegates, advertising public engagement events). Support for
 award holders is reflected in fractional workload relief from regular duties (see Section
 2.6).

 At UoA level, all staff are strongly encouraged to bid for external research funding and
 fellowships to support their research, although recognition is given to the fact that not all
 areas of legal research presuppose funding in equal measure. No generic policy has
 been deployed regarding submission of funding applications, as it is acknowledged that
 legal research is conducted in a variety of ways, so that the promotion of one model for
 the submission of applications may be counterproductive. However, some subfields –
 especially Criminology, Regulation and International Law – have seen the submission of
 a large number of applications. Staff in MILC have taken advantage of the international
 focus of their research to apply to non-RCUK funding bodies, and a high proportion of
 non-RCUK income is concentrated in MILC. Guidance on the preparation of applications
 is provided by the leaders of research centres and hubs, the departmental DR and
 individual mentors. All funding applications are internally reviewed before final submission
 to maximise their chance of success. Where appropriate, applicants for funding are
 encouraged to request the conduct of semi-formal trial interviews prior to submission of
 bids.

 UoA members have been very successful in accessing internal funding for the
 development of grant applications. UoA members have lodged successful bids for UMRI
 funds, and have received a total of nearly £156K. The following projects have been
 funded by UMRI Awards: Gadd, ‘Tough Choices: A Study of Romanian Sex Workers’
 Experience in 5 European Cities’ (£14,107); Spencer, ‘A Criminological Network Analysis
 of Counterfeit Alcohol Distribution – A Pilot Project’ (£24,903); Spencer, ‘Food Fraud:
 Supply Network Integrated System Analysis (SuNISA)’ (£20,042); Bennett, ‘Assisted
 Reproduction in Law, Society, History and Ethics: Building Interdisciplinary Synergy’
 (£30,164). The following projects have been supported by HSIF Awards: D’Aspremont,
 ‘Impacting International Practice (IMPRACTICE)’ (£11,878); Fox, ‘The Experience of
 Criminalisation and Victimisation of Undocumented Migrants’ (£10,192); Lamont,
 ‘Friendless or Forsaken? Routes to Assisted Child Emigration from England to Canada
 1870-1930’ (£12,101); Deakin, ‘Conversations about Radicalisation: Investigating the
 Prevent Strategy in Schools’ (£20,682); Cobb, ‘An International Comparison of Legal and
 Regulatory Responses to Campus Sexual Violence’ (£13,062); Glover-Thomas,
 ‘Understanding Operational Trends in Mental Health Tribunals – Driver Analysis and
 Policy Development’ (£10,491). The UMRI funding resulted in three applications for
 external funding, two of which were successful. The HSIF awards supported impact-
 related work on the contribution of international law to understanding peace and modern
 warfare; the co-production of resources providing young people with opportunities to air


                                                                                       Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 their views and concerns about extremism in their schools and wider community; and the
 strengthening of research networks developed via an EC Project on migrant men and
 well-being.

 3.3 Impact Support
 The UoA has an Impact Lead (Keywood), whose duties include: advising on the
 coordination and structuring of research projects and agendas with likely real-world
 outcomes; identifying potential impact cases; assisting in the preparation of potential
 cases. The Impact Lead liaises closely with the Knowledge Exchange and Impact Officer
 and the School DR in the administration of impact portfolios. Impact cases are subject to
 review at UoA, School, Faculty and University level. Delivery of impact in research is
 supported by teaching and administrative relief for researchers developing impact cases.
 Impact cases are also supported by targeted investment in Open Access publications.
 Most Impact Cases are linked to underpinning research resulting from externally funded
 projects. This is evident in impact-oriented research on tribunals (Thomas) and
 transnational constitutional norms (Thornhill). However, major impact cases are
 supported by engagement with University Research Institutes, as shown by Koukiadaki’s
 collaboration with the Work and Equalities Institute. Key frameworks for maximising future
 impacts are now established through N8 PRP, LegalTech, and the Justice Hub (see
 Section 1.6).

 3.4 Impact Acceleration Account
 Since 2014, ESRC Impact Acceleration Account Awards with a combined value of over
 £100,000 have been obtained in the UoA to support research co-produced with non-
 academic partners. These were received by Gadd (2014) for research on domestic
 abuse; by Medina (2014) for research on problem solving in community safety; by Butler
 (2015/2017) for research on the implications of Brexit and transatlantic trade; by Smith
 (2016) for research on police reform; by Musa (2017) for research on Brexit and cyber
 security; by Thomas (2016/2018) for research on administrative justice; by Cunningham
 (2017) for research on disruptive technologies. The Impact Acceleration Account Awards
 obtained by Gadd and Thomas have resulted in full Impact Cases.




Section 4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and
Society

 The UoA attaches great importance to the establishment of collaborative arrangements
 involving staff and students. We collaborate in different ways with other HEIs and
 organisations in the UK, with overseas partner institutions, and with stakeholder groups in
 different contexts. Our intellectual collaborations, our contributions to the scientific
 community and the signs of scholarly recognition obtained by UoA members are closely
 linked to our internationalisation policies. In the current cycle, further, strategic emphasis
 has been placed the development of impact-oriented partnerships and collaborative
 initiatives with stakeholders, regionally, nationally, and internationally. As a result, the
 UoA is engaged in a range of collaborations and partnerships, some centred on individual
 colleagues, and some with a defined institutional structure, a number of which have a
 pronounced impact and/or knowledge transfer focus. These collaborations reflect both
 the distinctive international and the distinctive impact-focused emphases of the UoA.

 4.1 Collaborations through Research Centres
 Many of our major collaborations are formally managed by UoA-level research centres,


                                                                                        Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 which work closely with other institutions and organisations. MILC is engaged in formal
 collaborations with: The African Society of International Law (AfSIL); The Carnegie
 Endowment for International Peace, Washington DC; The International Centre for
 Settlement of Investment Disputes, Washington DC. From 2018-19, MILC organised a
 series of expert seminars on Occupation law in Stockholm, Manchester and Brussels with
 the Swedish Institute for Foreign Affairs. MILC also designed and maintains the Oxford
 International Organisations database (https://opil.ouplaw.com/home/OXIO). In
 Criminology, Deakin’s PROMISE project brings together collaborating institutions in
 Estonia, Finland, Germany, Italy, Portugal, Slovakia, Spain, the Russian Federation,
 Croatia and the UK.

 4.2 Simon and Hallsworth Visiting Professorships
 Formal collaborations involving the movement of international colleagues to UoM are
 supported by Simon and Hallsworth Visiting Professorships, which provide resources to
 attract distinguished international researchers to spend periods of research in the UoA.
 The UoA has obtained 14 Simon and Hallsworth Visiting Professorships since 2014.
 Notable holders of these Professorships are: Futterman (Chicago); Valim (Pontifícia
 Universidade Católica de São Paulo); Vander Beken (Ghent); Hydén (Linköping); Joyner
 (Alabama); Albanese (Virginia); Morselli (Montreal). Visiting Professors actively contribute
 to our research culture by leading workshops and training events. They also play an
 important role in developing new international research collaborations, including
 reciprocal staff visits.

  4.3 Collaborations with an Impact or Knowledge-Transfer Focus
  The UoA is centrally involved in a number of partnerships focused on knowledge transfer
  with prominent stakeholder groups. One example is the N8 PRP Consortium, with G.
  Pearson as Academic Director. Funds obtained through the Consortium are used for
  Continuing Professional Development, data analysis and conference and training events.
  One of the functions of the Consortium is to stimulate changes in policy through co-
  production of research and dissemination of findings through the N8PRP Steering Group,
  Innovation Forum and Final Conference. UoA members have secured four N8PRP grants
  for research coproduction totalling £72k (2016-2020). Further, the Manchester Law &
  Technology Initiative (LawTech), supported by Business Engagement Manager (Kenyon)
  and fronted in the UoA by Haskell in the UoA, LawTech facilitates exchanges and
  collaboration between academia concerning questions arising for the legal sector from the
  emergence of new technologies. The Initiative won the Alliance of the year award at the
  British Legal Technology Awards (2019). It was a finalist at the 2018 PraxisAuril
  Knowledge Exchange Awards, in acknowledgement of its success in bringing together
  legal services firms to work collaboratively with Universities. It has led to knowledge-
  transfer partnerships with Innovate UK (funding circa £10,000), the Institute for New
  Economic Thinking, and the Association for Promotion of Political Economy and Law
  (£15,000). It co-sponsored the Future Law Institute's Summit (2020), attended by over 120
  speakers from a range of industry, policy and higher education backgrounds. The Summit
  included workshops and lectures on a range of topics from sustainable development to
  emerging digital technologies. LawTech has twice hosted a Manchester event as part of
  the Global Legal Hackathon, an international competition held in over forty cities
  simultaneously, aimed at fostering the rapid development of solutions for improving the
  legal industry. The UoM Justice Hub is also located in the UoA. The Justice Hub shapes
  national policy through membership of the British Legal Technology Forum; the All-Party
  Parliamentary Group on Miscarriages of Justice; the Criminal Cases Review Commission
  stakeholders group. It has also gained important funding (£202,833) from the National
  Institute for Health Research (NIHR) for collaborative research with colleagues (Price) in
  Sociology.



                                                                                      Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4.3 Conference Collaborations
 The UoA has collaborated in many jointly organised conferences, held either at UoM or at
 collaborating institutions. Notable examples are: Workshop on ‘Tipping Points in
 International Law’, co-organised with the American Society of International Law Interest
 Group in International Legal Theory (Washington DC, 2019) (D’Aspremont); Conference
 in Leeds on the Early Identification of Honour-Based Abuse, funded by N8 Policing
 Research Partnership (Fox); Annual Conference of the African Society of International
 Law (2017 and 2018) (Hodu); International conference on ‘Gene Editing’, (Singapore,
 2018) (Giordano); 12th Annual Ethnography Symposium (2017), in association with the
 Journal of Organisational Ethnography (G. Pearson); Conference for the Administrative
 Justice Council on ‘Administrative Justice Decision-making and Procedures’ (London,
 2018) (Thomas).

 4.4 Research Events and Conference funding
 The UoA enhances research culture by investing resources in research centres and hubs
 to host research events and to facilitate exchanges between academics and the wider
 community. Many conferences are designed to respond to current societal problems.
 ManReg organised a Symposium on ‘Regulatory Complexity’ (2016), which brought
 together ManReg members and external speakers from academia and policy fields.
 ManReg also organised a Conference on ‘Brexit, Regulation and Society’ (2017), which
 attracted over 90 delegates from across academia, professions, and voluntary and public-
 sector bodies. In 2014-15, specialist symposia and mini-conferences were hosted in the
 Centre for Criminology and Criminal Justice (now the Department of Criminology) on
 ‘Mass Violence, Migration and the Aftermath of Violence’. In July 2014, Gadd organised
 the Conference ‘In the Aftermath of Violence: What Constitutes a Responsive
 Response?’ (supported by the Hallsworth Conference Fund (£4,968)); this led to
 publication of a thematic number of British Journal of Criminology. CCCJ also hosted a
 regular seminar series that attracted scholars from across UoM and neighbouring
 Universities, local practitioners and PGRs. Since 2014, CSEP has organised a number of
 workshops and conferences, including events on: ‘Criminalising Contagion: Legal and
 Ethical Challenges of Disease Transmission and the Criminal Law’ (2014); ‘Healthcare
 Ethics and Law in the News’ (2015); ‘Bioethics: Past, Present and Future’ (2016);
 ‘Healthcare Disparities, Disruptive Healthcare Technologies and the Patient’ (2019,
 supported by the Hallsworth Conference fund £20,865). MILC organises the Annual
 Gillian White Lecture series and the regular Manchester International Law seminar series.
 In 2018, with UoA support, it hosted the Annual Conference of the European Society of
 International Law.

 4.5 Individual Collaborations
 Some research collaborations are organised at a more individual level, often in the form
 of thematically focused research networks, embedded in Research Centres. For
 example, Deakin convenes the European Youth inclusion network, focused on youth
 transitions, youth futures, and inequality (35 participants); Garcia Oliva convenes the
 network BRASNA (the Belief and Religion Scholars Network on Abuse), with members in
 Canada, Chile, Spain, Uruguay and UK; Haskell is Co-Director of the Law and Money
 Initiative, a collaboration between Cornell Law School, Manchester Law School and
 Sheffield School of Law; Lovdahl Gormsen convenes the network: ‘A Human-Centric
 Digital Agenda for Europe’, designed to set the new digital agenda for the next European
 Commission (35 participants, including The European Consumer Organisation and Open
 Society European Policy Institute); Thomas co-chairs the Academic Panel of the
 Administrative Justice Council (30 participants).

 4.6 Collaborative Outputs
 Less formal international collaborations have also produced marked benefits for our


                                                                                   Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 research, and a number of important outputs have resulted from them. Examples are co-
 edited monographs produced by D’Aspremont with Besson (Fribourg) (2017); with
 Nollkaemper et al (Amsterdam) (2017; 2020); by Thornhill with Madsen (I-Courts,
 Copenhagen) (2014) and Blokker (Prague/EUI-Florence) (2017); by Deakin with Kupchik
 (Delaware) and Taylor (Australian National University) (2018). Important international
 collaboration is also reflected in the fact that a total of 8 UoA members have seen one or
 more of their publications translated into foreign languages. International Law as a Belief
 System (D’Aspremont 2017) was translated into Portuguese, and is due to appear in
 Spanish and Japanese; translation rights in Portuguese have been sold for A Sociology
 of Constitutions and The Sociology of Law and the Global Transformation of Democracy
 (Thornhill 2011, 2018); a two-volume collection of articles by Thornhill has been
 translated into Chinese as Sociological Enlightenment (currently blocked by censors);
 Psychosocial Criminology (Gadd 2007) was translated into Italian.

 4.7 Service to Stakeholders
 UoA members frequently assume advisory roles outside academia, contributing to the
 general knowledge base of society. In addition to bringing reputational benefits to the
 UoA, such activities support the expansion of the societal impact of research, and they
 are often linked to the development of potential impact cases. Significant amongst formal
 advisory functions performed by UoA members are the following, presented in
 accordance with thematic emphasis:

 Drugs
 Aldridge sits on the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs (ACMD). As expert on
 drug-related cybercrime, she has provided expert consultancy for Pompidou Group of the
 Council of Europe (2015- ) and for the European Commission Expert Group Meeting on
 Internet and Drugs (2016).

 Health
 Butler has acted as Scientific Advisor for the European Public Health Alliance (EPHA).
 Garland has (2019) been nominated to sit on the first NHS Policy committee on Intersex
 Surgeries. Devaney assumed an advisory reporting role for the Committee for Standards
 in Public Life (2016). Holm is a Member of UK Stem Cell Bank Steering Committee; of
 the National Research Ethics Advisors Panel for the Health Research Authority; of UK
 Biobank Ethics and Governance Council; and of the Advisory Board for UKRI ISCF
 ‘Accelerating Detection of Disease (ADD) Challenge’. Some UoA members have
 assumed important consultative duties in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. For
 example, G. Pearson is a member of the Policing and Security Workstream of the
 Scientific Pandemic Influenza Group on Behavioural Science Sub-Group (SPI-B), which
 provides advice to SAGE (Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies) and the Home
 Office on matters relating to public order, crowd behaviour, and policing.

 Modern Slavery
 Gadd and Broad both provided consultancy on the Home Office’s Typology of Modern
 Slavery (2017).

 Trade and employment
 From 2014-2019, Hodu was a regular consultant on Trade Policy and Trade Negotiations
 at the United Nations Office, Dakar and Addis Ababa. Koukiadaki assumed various
 consultancies, including for the International Labour Organisation (on collective
 redundancies, temporary agency work, collective bargaining, gender equality and social
 dialogue); for the European Trade Union Confederation (2014); for the European
 Parliament (2018).



                                                                                     Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Policing and Criminal Justice
 Miles acted as Advisor to the Home Office Crime and Policing Analysis Unit (2017-2018).
 G. Pearson acted as consultant to the English Football League (2017), preparing a report
 for League’s response to the Sports Grounds Safety Authority’s consultation. Smith
 served as consultant to the Council of Europe and advised on criminal justice reform.

 Tribunals
 Thomas is a member of the Administrative Justice Council, acting as co-chair of its
 academic panel.

 In addition, Scobbie acted as consultant to Qatar in the Qatar/UAE dispute currently
 before the International Court of Justice.

 4.8 Editorial Responsibilities
 UoA members assume responsibility for editing a number of journals, some of which are
 housed within the UoA. Involvement in these editorial duties ensures that UoA members,
 both individually and collectively, help to define research agendas and to set the
 parameters both for their subfield and the discipline more generally. UoA members
 currently edit four journals: British Journal of Criminology (Gadd); Legal Studies
 (Wardhaugh; Glover-Thomas); Journal of Social Security Law (Harris); Clinical Ethics
 (Holm). In the current REF cycle, UoA members sat in total on the editorial boards of 45
 journals. These journals include British Journal of Criminology; Criminology & Criminal
 Justice; European Journal of International Law; History of European Ideas; Howard
 Journal of Criminal Justice; International Criminal Justice Review; Journal of Gender
 Based Violence; Medical Law International; Medical Law Review.

 In addition, UoA members act as Editors-in-Chief of 8 important monograph series:
 Cambridge Studies in International and Comparative Law (Cambridge UP)
 (D’Aspremont); Contemporary Issues in Bioethics, Law and Medical Humanities
 (Manchester UP) (Bennett/Giordano); Global Perspectives on Medical Law (Edward
 Elgar) (Glover-Thomas); Advances in Criminology and Criminal Justice in Asia
 (Palgrave) (Hebenton); Philosophy & Medicine (Springer) (Holm); Issues in Biomedical
 Ethics (Oxford UP) (Holm); Melland Schill Monographs in International Law (Manchester
 UP) (Scobbie); Desafíos constitucionales contemporáneos/Contemporary Constitutional
 Challenges (Astrea/Contracorrente) (Thornhill).

 4.9 Learned Society Roles
 Many UoA members have held positions in learned societies, enabling them to shape
 academic strategy in their core areas. D’Aspremont was Member of the Board of the
 European Society of International Law (2016-2018); Haskell acted as Board member for
 the American Society of Comparative Law and Executive Board Member of the
 Association for the Promotion of Political Economy and Law; Hebenton was President of
 the Society of Chinese Criminology and Criminal Justice in the United States (2018-
 2020); Holm was President of the International Association of Bioethics (2014-16);
 Koukiadaki became a Member of the Executive Committee of the Institute of
 Employment Rights (2017) and a Member of the Transnational Trade Union Rights
 Experts Group of the European Trade Union Institute (2016); Lord was elected Chair of
 the European Working Group on Organisational and White-Collar Crime (EUROC);
 Medina was President of the Spanish Criminological Association (2016-2020), in which
 capacity he organised the Annual Conferences of the Spanish Society of Criminology
 (2017-2020); Wardhaugh served on the Executive Board of the Society of Legal
 Scholars (2013-2019).

 4.10 Service to Research Foundations


                                                                                   Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Since 2014, UoA members have provided extensive service for the international legal and
 wider scientific community by assuming advisory duties for research foundations and
 academies, by reviewing funding applications in the UK and other countries, and by
 serving on senior academic advisory boards at other HEIs. Notably, Gadd was appointed
 to the ESRC Grants Assessment Panel (2017-) and appointed Vice Chair of that panel in
 2018; Koukiadaki joined the ESRC Peer Review College (2017); Medina was a panel
 member for the Spanish Research Agency’s Social Sciences Commission (2018);
 Thornhill acted as ERC panel member (2015-2016; 2018-19); as member of the
 European Research Foundation (ERF) Review College (2016-2020); as ERF Reviewer
 for Research in Law and Society in Portugal (2014).

 4.11 Visiting Professorships
 UoA members have also benefited from extended overseas research visits, and many
 have held significant Visiting Professorships, in a number of different countries, which
 have been funded both by prestigious research foundations and by host institutions. UoA
 members have held 20 international Visiting Professorships since 2014. Most significant
 amongst such appointments are: George Soros Visiting Chair, Central European
 University (2017) (Aldridge); Visiting Professor at Dalhousie University (Garcia Oliva);
 Visiting Professor of Welfare Law, Gothenburg University (2014-2018) (Harris); Yao
 Meizhen Visiting Professor of International Law, University of Wuhan (2018-2021)
 (Hodu); Permanent Professor (20%), Centre for Medical Ethics, University of Oslo
 (Holm); Dean of the School of Law, City University Hong Kong (2014-2019) (Howells);
 Visiting Professor, École normale supérieure Paris-Saclay (2019) (Koukiadaki); Visiting
 Professor at the China-EU School of Law at the China University of Political Science
 (Musa); Niklas Luhmann Distinguished Visiting Professor in Sociological Theory,
 University of Bielefeld (2018) (Thornhill); CAPES Brazilian Government Senior Visiting
 Professor, University of Brasilia (2016) (Thornhill).

 4.12 Keynote Lectures
 Many UoA members gave important keynote, plenary and named lectures, at major
 conferences and in important series, both in the UK and in other countries. Prominent
 amongst these are the following: Abbot presented a keynote paper at the Conference on
 ‘Environmental Impact Assessment and Collaborative Governance’, European
 Environmental Law Foundation Conference (2014); Aldridge gave the Opening Plenary
 lecture at the Conference ‘When Illegal Markets Mimic Legal Markets: Structure, Function
 and Harm in the Darknet Trade in Illegal Drugs’, Spanish Society of Criminology (Oviedo
 2018) and the George Soros Visiting Chair Public Lecture ‘Darknet Drug Markets: Do
 They Make the “Bad Guys” Less Bad?’, (Budapest, 2017); D’Aspremont gave a Thomas
 Franck Lecture to the International Law Research Group at the Humboldt University
 (Berlin, 2017); Gadd gave the plenary lecture at the Annual Respect Conference (2019);
 Hebenton gave the Invited keynote lecture at the Conference on ‘Sexual Offender
 Registration and Notification’, organised by the International Association for Treatment of
 Sex Offenders (Porto, 2014); Hodu was Keynote Speaker at the conference on ‘Building
 a New Partnership between Africa and the EU’, Austrian Foundation for Development
 Studies (Vienna, 2018) and at the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
 (Dakar, 2018); Koukiadaki gave the keynote lecture at the European Labour Law
 Conference of the European Lawyers for Workers Network (2015); McMeel gave the
 Keynote Lecture at the Society of Legal Scholars Banking and Financial Services Subject
 Section (Dublin, 2017); and the Current Legal Problems lecture at University College
 London (2017); Medina gave the keynote lecture ‘Towards Co-Production in Crime
 Prevention: Challenges and Opportunities’ at the Conference on Security, Democracy,
 and Cities, organised by the European Forum for Urban Security (Barcelona, 2017);
 Thornhill gave the inaugural lecture for the Centre for Law and Society in Global
 Context, Queen Mary London (2014); the keynote lecture at the Annual Blischenko


                                                                                     Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 International Law Conference (Moscow) (2016); a series of Lectures as Invited Guest of
 the Brazilian Sociological Association (2017); the Niklas-Luhmann-Address, University of
 Bielefeld (2018); the Plenary lecture at the Biannual Conference of the International
 Research Committee on the Sociology of Law, Lisbon (2018).

 4.13 Prizes, Distinctions and Commendations
 Since 2014, a number of UoA members have received important prizes and other signs
 of recognition, both nationally and outside the UK. Notable amongst prizes received by
 UoA members are the following: EMCDDA Scientific Award – special merit (Aldridge);
 Best Graduate Paper at the Annual Conference of the Human Development and
 Capabilities Association (Athens 2014) (Austin); Radzinowicz prize for best article in
 British Journal of Criminology (2018) (Broad/Gadd); James Crawford Prize for Best
 Article on International Dispute Settlement (2017) (D’Aspremont); Election as Member of
 the International Academy of Comparative Law (2015) and Member of the European
 Society of International Law (2017) (Hodu); British Society of Criminology Book Prize
 (2015) (Lord); Young Career Award of the US White-Collar Crime Research Consortium
 (2014) (Lord); Van Caenegem prize for Legal History (2018) (Musa); Lifetime
 Achievement Awards from Humboldt Research Foundation (Germany) (2018) and World
 Complexity Science Academy (Italy) (2020) (Thornhill).

 The following colleagues were elected to research academies: Brazier was elected to
 Fellowship of the British Academy (2014); D’Aspremont was elected Member of the
 Royal Holland Society of Sciences and Humanities; Harris (2016) and Gadd (2020) were
 elected Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences; Thornhill was elected to the
 Academia Europaea (2016).




                                                                                   Page 21
