Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: The Royal Central School of Speech and Drama, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 33 Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film, and Screen Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1. As a small specialist institution, The Royal Central School of Speech and Drama, University
 of London (Central, UoL) constitutes a single unit of assessment. The REF2021 submission is
 rooted in the unit context and structure of 37 academic staff (30.5 FTE) with significant
 responsibility for research in the fields of Theatre, Drama, Dance, Film, and Performance (DTP):
 Nicola Abraham, Joshua Abrams, Catherine Alexander, Joel Anderson, Cariad Astles,
 Sylvan Baker, Peter Boenisch, Ross Brown, Ben Buratta, Selina Busby, Broderick Chow,
 Alyson Coleman, Tom Cornford, Diana Damian-Martin, Maria Delgado, Mar Diestro-
 Dópido, Kate Elswit, Stephen Farrier, Tony Fisher, Sarah Grochala, David Harradine,
 Lynne Kendrick, Katharine Low, Sally Mackey, Michelle Nicholson-Sanz, Adelina Ong,
 Joanna Parker, Ella Parry-Davies, Naomi Paxton, Dani Ploeger, Duška Radosavljević,
 Sinéad Rushe, David Shearing, Farokh Soltani, Amanda Stuart-Fisher, Gareth White,
 Marilena Zaroulia. 14% have fixed-term positions (postdoctoral fellowships or on externally
 funded projects). In addition, three Professors (Gilli Bush-Bailey, Robin Nelson, Simon
 Shepherd) retired during this period but remain part of our scholarly infrastructure, as Emerita
 and Emeritus (Bush-Bailey, Shepherd), and an Honorary Professorial Fellow (Nelson, Emeritus
 since 2021).
 Central’s research explores contemporary practices of theatre-making and performance and
 their cultural histories and lineages. It encompasses a broad range of specialisms and fields:
 sonic and scenographic landscapes; applied, political, and social theatres; practices of acting
 and directing; and performance dramaturgies. Attendance to performance’s manifold
 genealogies and to the communities and audiences that performance engages is at the forefront
 of our research, in ways that advocate for theatre’s ongoing cultural, political, and social impacts.
 Central’s REF2014 Environment Template (REF5) delineated a model of research activity
 structured through a ‘Practitioner Researcher Network’ comprising ‘nodes’ such as acting,
 movement and voice, applied theatre, puppetry and object theatre, which closely mirrored our
 taught courses, unwittingly imposing normative disciplinary boundaries on research interests.
 We subsequently reconfigured how Central profiles its research, both internally and publicly, as
 part of the review of infrastructure for Research (initiated in 2015, see 3.1) to better reflect the
 work of our researchers across and between art forms and disciplines. Our research centres
 were dissolved, creating more permeable areas of interest better able to promote dialogue
 (Research@Work seminars, see 3.2), cross-disciplinary collaboration, interdisciplinary exchange
 (see 3.3), and innovation in emergent areas such as the digital humanities and virtual realities
 (see 1.4). Reorganisation incorporated doctoral training provision (see 2b.1) and committee
 structures (see 1.6, 2a.3, 2b.1); it also brought increased stakeholder buy-in (evidenced in the
 number of collaborative partners engaged in projects and events; see 2a.5, 4.1, 4.11), promoted
 collective leadership, and an integrated sense of community (see 2a.1). Termly meetings with
 researchers, and a system of peer-to-peer support with research advisors, weekly office hours
 with the Director of Research (DoR), and Research Services open clinics ensure that the flow of
 resources is responsive to our academics’ research interests. Today, Central’s research is
 structured to benefit researchers by maximising their autonomy within a collegiate network of
 scholars.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2. The research plans identified in Central’s REF2014 submission (REF5) centred on a core
 strategic aim: to ensure a sustainable environment for Research, as a conservatoire that places
 thinking, making, and doing at the heart of its mission. This was accomplished by meeting three
 primary objectives:
 1.2.1. To consolidate an inclusive culture led by the highest ethical standards within research
 governance, leadership, and wider practice both within Central and the discipline;
        Realised through:
     i. A 43.5% increase in FTE submitted to REF2021;
    ii. The development of new research leaders evidenced by promotions (see 2a.6) and
        leadership in the field (see 4.1–8);
   iii. Increase of postdoctoral fellowships (none submitted to REF2014, three submitted to
        REF2021; see 1.3–4);
   iv. Bespoke support for researchers with protected characteristics (see 2a.4);
    v. Embedding research integrity into our operating model (see 1.6).
 1.2.2. To develop a sustainable research infrastructure to support researchers at all levels;
        Realised through:
     i. A rationalised approach to funding bids linked to academic plans (see 3.5). REF2014
        narrated research income totalling £1.53m, REF2021 sees this figure rise to £3.96m (see
        3.5);
    ii. The systematisation of funding support, including: regular sabbaticals with flexible half-
        term arrangements and pro-rata for fractional and fixed-term staff, pump-priming, output
        completion, conference attendance (see 2a.2);
   iii. New facilities for research (see 3.6);
   iv. Increased PGR studentship funding (see 2b.2, 2b.5).
 1.2.3. To position our research as locally and globally aware, developed in collaborations with
 UK-based, European, and international partners and beneficiaries;
        Realised through:
     i. Projects developed with due regard to regional engagements (conducted by staff from 10
        countries working across 14 languages with 470+ academic and non-academic
        collaborators, including transnational exchange (Delgado’s co-edited Contemporary
        European Playwrights), intercultural dialogue (Elswit’s practice research From ‘Future
        Memory’), and addressing local and global inequalities (Low’s monograph Applied Theatre
        and Sexual Health Communication).
    ii. Participation in international networks through co-convenorship of the European Theatre
        Research Network (ETRN) with the Universities of Kent and Aarhus, and leadership roles
        in disciplinary bodies (see 4.2).
 Building on the above, our objectives for the next five years respond to imperatives that drive
 current practice (identified in 1.3, 3.4, 3.7, 4.11) — in light of the socio-cultural and economic
 impact of COVID-19 and the demands it is making on Central and our discipline(s). Indicative
 current activity accompanies each objective.
 1.2.4. To reinforce and develop Central's growing research infrastructure, to: ensure the
 continuation of a vibrant PGR programme — 3 AHRC studentships awarded for 2021/22; create
 opportunities for postdoctoral researchers and new ECR appointments — £63k targeted
 investment in 2020/21, including two fixed-term positions; strengthen our ongoing work as sector
 advocates (see 4.2–7); bring continuing projects with key industry and HE partners to completion
 — Radosavljević’s commissioned Routledge monograph and accompanying website on new
 digital dramaturgies and audience engagement (with Digital Theatre+ (DT+), V&A, Battersea


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Arts Centre) and Elswit’s co-authored book on dance history and the digital humanities (with
 Bench, Ohio State); foster new ventures and collaborations focussing on challenge-led research
 — Harradine’s collaboration on ‘The Neurology of Power’ (Fevered Sleep and Suzanne Alleyne
 & Co) examining equity and inclusion in the arts.
 1.2.5. To continue to progress a sustainable research culture informed by and responsive to the
 needs of both local and wider communities through enhanced social engagement (with NGOs,
 charities, local authorities, health and care professions, migrant groups, etc.) — Shearing’s
 ‘Social Matter’ project (£15k R&D Arts Council England (ACE)-funded) exploring class and
 materiality in the London Borough of Havering; Parry-Davies’s monograph on Filipinx migrant
 domestic workers and performance inequalities (2023); Mackey and Ong’s edited volume on
 Performing Home (Palgrave); and Abraham’s, ‘Innovating Knowledge Exchange’, PI, Research
 England/Office for Students, £566k (2020–22 with co-authored book Making Hospitals Better for
 Routledge).
 1.2.6. To promote research that foregrounds marginalised practices, underrepresented groups,
 and increased democratisation and equity in the arts — Farrier’s co-edited collection with
 Campbell (UMelbourne) and Gayatri (UWitwatersrand) on queer global performance (2022);
 Busby’s co-edited Routledge Companion to Theatre and Youth with Rajendran (NIE Nanyang
 Technological University Singapore) and Freebody (USydney); Baker’s collaborative research
 on anti-racist training for medical/nursing students; Buratta’s GROOVE, exploring
 intergenerational LGBTQ+ testimony (2022, £15k R&D ACE-funded); monographs/collections on
 European and/or non-Anglophone theatres (Delgado/verbatim plays post-Franco;
 Boenisch/institutional dramaturgies); projects on decolonisation (Chow/physical culture,
 incarceration, and race; Cornford/theatre’s racial economy); monographs in progress on
 democracy and political participation (Fisher/agonistic aesthetics and globalisation;
 Zaroulia/British postimperial melancholy and Europe; Damian-Martin/political criticism; Stuart-
 Fisher/testimonial theatre as social justice).

 1.3. Our vision for enabling and facilitating impact is linked to our industry and third-sector
 collaborations, through an impact strategy centred on ensuring our research contributes to the
 creative and social economy, nationally and internationally.
 An Academic Lead for impact was established in 2017, supporting researchers to embed impact
 into research design and realisation. We appointed two fixed-term Knowledge Exchange Fellows
 (2018–21), Paxton and Brian Lobel (who took up a Professorship at Rose Bruford in 2020), to
 consolidate impact activities, supported by the institution’s Impact Manager and investment in e-
 infrastructure (see 3.4). In 2020, Paxton secured a competitive Parliamentary Academic
 Fellowship in the House of Commons as part of a network of academics and practitioners
 informing research and practice on public engagement and policy-based impacts with
 Parliament (2020–21).
 A Special Research Fund established in 2015 supports evaluation on large-scale externally
 funded collaborative projects (including Harradine’s Men & Girls Dance, Mackey’s ‘Performing
 Place’). Strategic funds are designed to help researchers shape and adapt their plans and
 provide rapid-response investment in impact generation — as with Paxton’s ‘Dramatic Progress:
 Votes for Women and the Edwardian Stage’ exhibition at the National Theatre (NT) (2018–19)
 and Cornford’s 2017 report on theatre workers with caring responsibilities, realised with Parents
 in Performing Arts and funded in collaboration with participating theatres, ACE, and Creative
 Scotland. Direct funding for projects in collaboration with industry partners include a British Film
 Institute (BFI) ECR Fellowship with its house magazine, Sight & Sound (Diestro-Dópido, 2016–
 20) and a postdoctoral position for a PGR alumnus working with Bush-Bailey and Low on

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Tonic’s Advance programme on gender imbalance within British theatre (2015–16). 18% of all
 sabbaticals supported industry-partnered projects with impact imperatives (Baker’s ‘The
 Verbatim Formula’, Rushe’s Concert), and impact has featured prominently in 21% of
 promotions (see 2.a.6). Industry-commissioned research is also facilitated by contract flexibility:
 Ploeger reduced his FTE in 2015 to undertake growing industry commissions (arebyte Gallery,
 London, supported by ACE, 2017; neue Gesellschaft für bildende Kunst (nGbK), Berlin, 2019).
 £70k has been invested across all these initiatives to support impact since January 2016.
 Our submitted Impact Case Studies typify the engagement of our research with industry
 partners at all stages of development, from new collaborations to final dissemination. The range
 of researchers represented in these Impact Case Studies — in terms of career-stage, expertise,
 and methodological approach — and their shared focus on EDI exemplify both this key theme of
 Central’s research culture and our emphasis on impact generation.

 1.4. We support interdisciplinary research as inherent to our field, with 70% of our REF2
 outputs classified as interdisciplinary. Harradine, promoted in 2016 to Professor of
 Interdisciplinary Practice, provides academic leadership on practice research with social and
 medical concerns. Appointments with interdisciplinary expertise have enhanced the vitality and
 sustainability of our research environment, with Elswit’s digital humanities research, Delgado’s
 in film and modern languages, and Chow’s with sports/exercise science. Cross-, trans-, and
 interdisciplinary researchers in the applied field engage with public- and third-sector
 collaborators — prison workers, policy advisors, NGOs — with support from internal funding
 (see 1.3). Interdisciplinary research with veterinary and medical practitioners includes
 Harradine’s Wellcome-funded Sheep Pig Goat (2017) and Abraham’s intergenerational Artificial
 Reality research (2018). Damian-Martin, Fisher, and Soltani’s publications in performance
 philosophy further demonstrate interdisciplinary exchanges. Investment in Visiting Research
 Fellows (VRFs; see 3.3) advances interdisciplinary dialogue, including a residency for Dr Nisha
 Sajnani (Director, NYU’s Theatre & Health Lab). Postdoctoral researchers funded by the
 Leverhulme Trust and British Academy (BA) embarked on interdisciplinary projects in water
 heritage and ecology (Nicholson-Sanz), and migrant studies (Parry-Davies). Further
 interdisciplinary reach includes specialist input into cross-disciplinary advisory work (see 4.7),
 reviewing for journals beyond DTP (see 4.4), and examination of 10 doctorates across Classics,
 Visual Arts, and Latin American Studies.

 1.5. Our commitment to open research has been amplified by a strategy of disseminating
 research (scenographic drawings, public performance, policy reports, etc.) across multiple Open
 Access (OA) platforms, from scholarly journals to digital media. This has been progressed both
 through investing £21k into Gold Access and through proactive staff involvement in OA
 publishing initiatives: as lead editor of Contemporary Theatre Review (CTR) Interventions
 (Chow); on editorial/advisory boards for OA journals, including European Stages, Performance
 Matters, and Performance Philosophy; publishing across 10 OA platforms, including Global
 Performance Studies, Teatro e Critica, and Critical Stages. This dissemination strategy is also
 evidenced by media and broadcast appearances, and online journalism (see 4.12).
 Creating an Academic Lead for Open Research in 2016 catalysed an approach to Open Data
 beyond REF OA requirements. We increased the Repository capacity to support practice
 research projects (see REF5a.2.3.1), generated links between staff projects on Central’s
 Research webpages and related project and performance company websites that contain further
 research data and process materials (e.g., Tonic Advance and Fevered Sleep’s blog), and
 hosted staff-authored policy reports (referenced in 1.3, 3.4, 4.11).


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 An enhanced digital presence has been extended through: the capture of events (e.g. BA- and
 ACE-funded ‘Brexit Stage Left’ conference and festival, 2019); AHRC-funded collections of
 audio-visual materials (e.g., ‘Aural/Oral Dramaturgies’, ‘Dunham’s Data’, ‘Staging Difficult Pasts’,
 all with external partners); our PGR-curated blog (see 2b.5); and the curation of staff
 presentations on our Research YouTube playlist.
 Staff contribute to external debates, processes, and structures regarding OA. Delgado is a
 member of JiSC’s Open Research Hub Strategic Steering Group (2019–20) and the
 JiSC/Elsevier Open Science Forum (2020–). Elswit is a member of the GuildHE Open Access
 Policy Discussion Group and fed into the UKRI Open Access Review (2020); her survey of
 existing OA options across 50 DTP journals has informed discussions with Dance Research
 Journal and Theatre Survey.

 1.6. Our commitment to research integrity led to the creation of a standalone Research Ethics
 and Integrity Sub-committee (REISC) in 2016 (see REF5a.2.4.2) to ensure our research is
 founded in appropriate ethical, legal, and professional frameworks, obligations, and standards.
 REISC (including PGR membership) oversees the dissemination and discussion of key policy
 changes and guidelines, through termly meetings, supervisor training, and PGR seminars.
 REISC’s Chair (Farrier) conducts an annual review of the School’s Research Ethics and
 Integrity handbook, with external monitoring from senior research leaders with multi-faculty
 expertise in research integrity. REISC actuates a culture of research integrity through: authoring
 Research Ethics and Funding Guidance (2020); regular Chair’s updates at School committees
 and annually to the whole Faculty; advising on external and internal funding applications;
 overseeing applications for ethical consent (including PGRs); promoting inclusivity around
 neurodivergent legibility; and a clear language statement for informed consent. Ensuring REISC
 remains informed of national policy developments, members receive training from the Chair and
 DoR, and, from 2020, external providers.
 Specific training for REISC’s Chair includes one-to-one mentoring from an international former
 Pro-VC for Research with expertise in research integrity, and from the DoR who previously
 served on a multi-faculty Ethics of Research Committee. Farrier has presented on research
 integrity in SSI contexts for GuildHE’s Research Network (2018), participated in the 2019 UK
 Research Integrity Forum, attends UKRIO’s monthly sessions, and now chairs Conservatoires
 UK’s Research Ethics Committee.


 2. People

 2a. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 2a.1. Since 2014, our staffing strategy in relation to recruitment has built research
 sustainability and vitality through retention and permanent appointments at ECR (Abraham,
 Baker, Cornford, Shearing), mid-career (Elswit, Radosavljević), and professorial (Boenisch,
 Delgado) levels. The appointment of a full-time DoR in 2015 (Delgado) galvanised significant
 cultural change: restructuring Research as a department with a fully staffed office (see 3.1) and
 delegated Associate Director role (see 2b.1); establishing academic leads for impact, open
 research, and research integrity (see 1.3, 1.5, 1.6) to provide more equitable distribution of
 research management responsibility, assisting with succession planning, and enhancing EDI
 opportunities.
 QR funding has supported five new permanent positions — the percentage of fixed-term
 researchers submitted to REF2014 was 31%, 17% are submitted to REF2021 — with external
 awards funding postdoctoral fellowships (see 1.4) and fixed-term ECR appointments for staffing


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 cover. The enlargement and diversification of our research base demonstrates the effectiveness
 of this strategy, reflected in a more balanced and diverse REF submission (see 1.2.1).

 2a.2. Our staff development strategy is researcher-centred, incorporating a range of
 interlocking support mechanisms including mentoring, probation and appraisal, training, and
 funding. Research advisors, introduced in 2015, mentor staff on one-, three-, and five-year
 research plans, feeding into annual appraisal or quarterly probation reviews with line-
 managers. Staff development blends collective training sessions with mechanisms for identifying
 and addressing individual needs. Termly research training days, incorporating external
 speakers, are instrumental to our commitment to the principles of the Concordat to Support
 the Career Development of Researchers with sessions covering: grant writing, maximising
 dissemination, public engagement, research integrity, practice research, and REF in ‘plain
 English’. Activities also provide opportunities to share individual developments on ongoing
 research, information (on European grants, UKRI initiatives, engaging with policy-makers), as
 well as feedback on our support systems. Staff have £500 per year to support professional
 development — from training for research in high-risk contexts to minority language learning —
 in addition to the funding mechanisms described in the following paragraph. Our investment in
 scholarly infrastructure (see 3.3, 3.7) has facilitated collaborations, opening up space for a wider
 exchange of ideas. Staff wellbeing is supported through institution-wide structures delineated in
 REF5a.3.2, including mentoring, management, HR services, and staff training.
 In 2016, we introduced regular sabbaticals (every nine terms, pro-rata) to embed research and
 impact planning more robustly into workload management (35 awarded, £280k). Financial
 support was also designed for all researchers (including fractional and fixed-term) through: (a)
 teaching buy-out for completing projects (54 awards, £100k); (b) pump-priming (£30k) and
 targeted completion (£70k) to aid output development and finalisation (including teaching buy-
 out, copy-editing, and image rights); (c) purchase of specialist equipment and software (£23k);
 (d) conference attendance (£80k), including collaborative external research partners and support
 for parents of small children and/or with dependents; (e) flexible working (four staff transferred
 from full-time to flexible working, nine were enabled pre-COVID-19 to work remotely — from
 home, overseas relocation); (f) support for editorial positions in journals and book series,
 leadership/convening roles in disciplinary organisations (£21k); (g) investment for three staff to
 undertake doctorates.

 2a.3. Support and integration of those at the beginning of their research careers (ECRs),
 including established practitioners, those moving from scholarship to research (T&R) pathways,
 and postdoctoral fellows, involves the following tailored approaches: ECR-targeted funding
 (accelerated sabbaticals, teaching relief, additional support for attending conferences,
 completing outputs, and with grant applications) and enhanced mentoring arrangements
 involving bi-monthly meetings with research advisors and feedback on book proposals and draft
 manuscripts in addition to probation reviews (see 2a.2, 3.5). Our commitment to integrating
 ECRs — 24% of staff at the REF2021 census date — into our research culture is evidenced in
 the inclusion of staff at all stages of their careers on Research Committee and its sub-
 committees (Research Degrees and REISC). ECRs advise on funding schemes and support
 structures, contribute as members of the Sabbatical and Awards Committee, and participate in
 School working groups.

 2a.4. Our ecosystem promotes diverse ways of processing and generating knowledge,
 recognising the place of lived experience in our research: 11% of staff submitted to REF2021
 identify as Black and Global Majority (0% in REF2014), 8% as other ethnic minorities, 26% as


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 LGBTQ+, and 59% as female. Our commitment to EDI is evidenced by: research advisors
 allocated responsively with sensitivity to EDI; financial support for the ‘Queer Shifts’ LGBTQ+
 seminar series (see 3.3); bespoke support for four maternity leave returners; specialist
 mentoring for part-time staff; assisting four staff returning from periods of ill health or managing
 long-term illness — re-balancing of duties, additional financial aid — supporting their inclusion in
 REF2021. Financial support for disabled researchers (22.85% of staff submitted), alongside
 reasonable adjustments, incorporate: specialist dyslexia tutor support; mentoring on grant
 applications from a research funding consultant with expertise in neurodivergence; copy-editing
 and research assistance funds. 87.5% of neurodivergent staff have secured first monograph
 contracts since 2014. In 2020, three case studies on embedding EDI into research planning and
 delivery at Central were published on the UKRI/RE website. Our REF2021 Strategy and Delivery
 Group (membership includes ECRs, fixed-term, and part-time staff) has paid due consideration
 to EDI in the construction of this submission, through: negotiated output reduction for ECRs
 and those with EDI-related needs (including caring responsibilities); prioritisation of outputs that
 engage with EDI considerations (e.g., revisionist historiographies, participatory practice research
 with hard-to-reach communities); four iterative Equality Impact Assessments (EIAs) and close
 oversight of output selection by the EIA panel Chair ensuring adherence to our Code of Practice
 (see also 2a.2–3, 3.5).

 2a.5. Procedures to stimulate and facilitate exchanges between academia and industry are
 built into Central’s operative structures (see 1.3, 4.10–14) and include: flexible and fractional
 appointments (32% of researchers) to facilitate industry commissions; investment in industry-
 related leadership (Alexander is an associate director with Complicité, Harradine is co-artistic
 director of Fevered Sleep — both ACE NPOs — and Buratta artistic director of Big Lottery-
 funded Outbox); establishing and maintaining fora for dialogue with industry leaders (VRFs,
 Edward Gordon Craig, and Theatre Workings Lectures, see 3.3); supporting collaborative
 doctoral awards (CDAs) (see 2b.5); targeted investment in industry postdoctoral positions with
 the BFI and Tonic Advance (see 1.3); industry policy research (see 1.3); and third-sector training
 and socially engaged interventions (see 4.9, 4.11).

 2a.6. Recognition and reward for research is delivered through a transparent promotion
 process (see REF5a.3.1), with the achievement of impact as a criterion: one staff member was
 promoted to Professor, seven to Reader, and five to Senior Lecturer during this REF cycle. Staff
 are encouraged to nominate colleagues at Central (and beyond) for awards/prizes to
 acknowledge inspiring individual and civic contribution (see 4.8, 4.15). Staff are granted buy-out
 of teaching and administrative responsibilities on externally funded grants to support project
 delivery.
 The efficacy of the strategy delineated in section 2a has seen increased productivity (see 1.2.1),
 support for impact achievement (see 1.3), greater engagement in disciplinary leadership (see
 4.2–3), and sector recognition (see 4.8, 4.15).

 2b. Research Students
 2b.1. At REF2014, Central’s PGR programme was only eight years old with five PhDs recorded
 up to the 12/13 HESA return; a 600% increase in successful completions to 2019/20
 demonstrates substantive development. A strategic review of PGR provision in 2015/16
 strengthened the programme’s sustainability. Measures introduced included the development of
 a robust system of governance, incorporating a new Research Degrees Sub-committee (RDSC)
 in 2016; enhanced academic support for delivering PGR training and recruitment led by the
 Associate Director of Research; improved oversight and steering mechanisms, with the


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 programme budget administered within Research Services; greater resilience in supervisory
 structures through staff recruitment policy (see 2a.1); and 110% increased allocation of
 resources to PGRs, including bursaries (see 2b.2, 2b.5). These changes fully integrate PGRs in
 Central’s research culture, preparing them for future research activity (see also 2b.4–5).

 2b.2. Central encourages applications from PGR candidates in all areas of research identified in
 1.1. Our recruitment policy promotes inclusivity with two entry points (September and
 January) and a flexible study path enabling candidates to move between full- and part-time study
 (25% of REF4a completions were part-time). To promote EDI, between 2016–19, Central
 initiated two annual open competition PGR studentships, targeted at research into and by
 underrepresented groups, and into non-English-language theatres (see 2b.3 for further EDI
 initiatives, 2b.5 for further investment in studentships). Equivalent to AHRC provision, six
 studentships were awarded, preparing Central for entrance in 2018 to the London Arts and
 Humanities Partnership (LAHP2) AHRC consortium. Our investment in researchers from
 underrepresented groups continues with an ongoing collaboration with the NT’s Black Plays
 Archive, with three LAHP/AHRC CDAs for Black and Global Majority candidates to-date. A
 LAHP/AHRC CDA with Archivio di Stato di Verona evidences our ongoing commitment to
 research beyond Anglophone contexts.
 Our PGRs have received bursaries and studentships from 14 bodies, including two UK HEIs,
 CAPES Brazil, Chinese Scholarship Panel, and New Mexico Commission for the Blind. A
 ‘Governors’ bursary’ supports self-funded candidates towards timely completion (£42k).

 2b.3. Wellbeing is integral to PGR support mechanisms. Training during termly supervisors’
 meetings encourages staff to be proactive in identifying candidates with learning differences.
 This has resulted in six diagnoses and targeted reasonable adjustment measures devised with
 our institutional team of specialist tutors (2017 winners of the Institutional Award of the
 Association of Dyslexia Specialists in HE in recognition of their support for learning differences
 within Central). Our implementation of the 2018 Vitae/HEFCE report recommendations on
 wellbeing and mental health support for PGRs involved an awareness-raising programme
 with supervisors, support staff, and students around identified issues; close collaboration with
 Central’s Student Advice Service in the design and delivery of our PGR induction programme;
 and training programme Reps as ‘wellbeing champions’.
 Monitoring and support mechanisms linked to evidence of progress are reflected in our
 results (see 2b.1) and in PGR destinations: 62% hold academic positions in universities
 (including Aalto, Kent, Reading, Salford, William & Mary); 8% in secondary or tertiary teaching
 jobs; 8% in specialist roles (as dramatherapists, content producers, learning co-ordinators); and
 22% work in the creative industries as practitioners (some also undertaking part-time
 university/conservatoire teaching).

 2b.4. Central’s year-long PGR skills development programme comprises three
 complementary areas: core, bespoke, and CDP. Our 20-week core programme covers:
 generic research skills in term one (mandatory for all entry-year PGRs); discipline specific
 methodologies (term two) revised annually according to the particular interests of our candidates
 — e.g., a collaboration on reparative methodologies with Decolonising the Archive (DTA)
 introduced in 2018/19. Delivered by academic staff, VRFs, and external speakers, these
 sessions build research confidence, encourage dialogue, and prepare students for sector
 engagement. Inter- and cross-disciplinary dialogue occurs through collaborative training
 initiatives with the Royal College of Music and University of the Arts London (e.g., our 2020



                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 phenomenology study day) and training from LAHP2 (e.g., the Central-led seminar series
 ‘Performing the Archive’ 2019/20).
 Candidates’ progress is monitored through a transfer review during their first year, followed in
 the second and third years (pro-rata part-time) by annual reviews — the final review facilitates
 progression to writing-up. Monthly supervisions with submission of reports to Research
 Services are reviewed and evaluated termly by RDSC. Mitigation measures (including in
 extremis temporary withdrawal of up to two years) support candidates encountering personal
 difficulties towards successful completion. 35% of our completions benefited from some degree
 of mitigation.
 All candidates receive an annual stipend of £500 for bespoke training in skills development
 offered by external providers, including language learning, residential workshops (e.g.,
 GuildHE’s Research Summer School, exchange programmes in 2018/2019 with Münchner
 Kammerspiele’s dramaturgy ‘Kammercampus’), and industry specific training (e.g., NEBOSH
 health and safety training, East London’s NHS Trust Arts Therapies Clinical Supervisors
 Workshop, Young Vic Arts Funding Masterclass).
 Our CPD programme prepares PGRs for their future careers. Sessions on
 professionalisation, resilience training, and transferable skills cover HEI and non-HEI
 employment. Between 2013–20, 18 PGRs benefitted from undertaking the first stage of a
 PGCert in support of undergraduate and postgraduate teaching activities (18 PGRs and six PGR
 alumni taught at Central during 2019/20). To encourage our PGRs as future leaders, we
 support their active participation in the wider discipline, offering training and mentoring in
 dissemination, and opportunities to present their research in formal and informal settings. We
 invested £75k in PGR conference attendance, with presentations including: The Association for
 Theatre in Higher Education (ATHE); International Federation for Theatre Research (IFTR);
 Theatre and Performance Research Association (TaPRA); Performance Studies international
 (PSi). Three candidates won TaPRA’s Postgraduate Essay Prize (2014, 2017, 2020) and one
 was awarded first prize for the Bruce Kirle Debut Panel at ATHE (2019). PGRs have taken
 leadership roles in disciplinary associations: working group convenors for American Society for
 Theatre Research (ASTR) (2014–18), IFTR (2018–), Society for Theatre Research (STR)
 (2014–18); Digital Coordinator for the Acting Programme at ATHE (2019–21); two PGR reps to
 TaPRA’s Executive Committee (2015–20); TaPRA representative for STR Executive Committee
 meetings (2018); and Chair of the Association of Performing Arts Collections (2017–). On-the-
 job leadership skills development is also inculcated through our annual, public-facing PGR-led
 events mentored by academic staff: a festival of practice research, ‘Collisions’, and a PGR
 conference, ‘Intersections’ (£78k investment), with both events delivered by PGRs in marketing,
 curatorial, and producing roles.

 2b.5. Our investment in internally match-funded CDAs with industry partners, the
 Association of British Theatre Technicians and NT Archive, has enabled students to build
 impact and industry-relevant open research skills into their projects (see also 2b.2) and
 prepare for future careers. Central also supports professionalisation opportunities through
 bursaries. A CTR Editorial Assistantship Studentship incorporates mentoring from the journal’s
 editors. 10+ paid CPD roles on a fixed-term basis include: Theatre Matters blog curation, an ICA
 placement (see 3.7), Research@Central Twitter officer (our account viewed 343,500 times since
 activation in 2019), editorial assistant with The Theatre Times (the world’s biggest theatre
 portal), co-artistic directorships of The Theatre Times Online International Theatre Festival
 (2020), and as Central’s Repository assistant.



                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGRs also have opportunities to test their skills beyond Central and develop an understanding
 of the wider sector — evidenced through: peer review for publishers (Routledge) and five
 journals, including Research in Drama Education (RiDE), Studies in Theatre and Performance
 (STP)); 65+ publications, with articles published in peer-reviewed journals, book chapters, guest
 (co-)editorship of Platform (2018, 2019, 2020), RiDE (23.3/2018), and Archives and Records
 Association Magazine (370, June 2020). PGRs produced 92 practice research outputs, including
 at Barcelona Solo Festival, Manchester HOME, and Nottingham Playhouse, generating project
 funding of approximately £420k (e.g., ACE, Creative Scotland, Big Lottery Fund).


 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities

 3.1. The reorganisation of our infrastructure implemented a central plank of our research
 strategy (see 1.2): the consolidation of research activities at Central. Three infrastructural areas
 were identified for enhancement: organisational structures around research management; bid
 development capacity; and funding management protocols. The creation of an autonomous
 Research Office in 2015, formerly under the Registry’s purview, saw the two existing roles in
 administration and funding become three new positions with executive responsibilities: a Head of
 Research Services, providing oversight of professional support for research management; a
 Research Services Administrator, administering the PGR programme, managing events, and
 providing administrative support to the DoR; and a Research Funding Manager, overseeing pre-
 and post-award funding. With a 263% increase in institutional investment since 2014/15, we
 streamlined support services for researchers and increased our capacity to generate external
 income through bid-writing, with an enhanced focus on EDI (see 2a.4, 3.5).

 3.2. As a monotechnic, our organisational, operational, and scholarly infrastructures
 overlap to maximise our resources, promoting our distinctive areas of work (see 1.1) and
 developing researcher expertise. This has involved creating a network of intersecting interests
 internally and externally: first, incorporating opportunities in which researchers meet and share
 ideas, resources, competencies, and expertise; and, second, facilitating external cross-HEI and
 industry collaborations.
 Networking fora include our Research@Work seminars where staff present work in
 development, and individual and group meetings with commissioning editors (e.g., Bloomsbury,
 CUP, and Routledge, leading to 11 contracted books submitted to REF2021). Complementing
 termly research training days (see 2a.2), 30+ specialist individual support sessions on grant
 writing generated a 75% increase in our grant award success rate 2016–20 on 2013–16, and
 boosted the confidence and disciplinary profile of our researchers, evidenced in our awards (see
 3.5, 4.1, 4.8, 4.15).

 3.3. Our scholarly infrastructure stimulates collaborations within and beyond Central. Activities
 include public-facing lectures, workshops, masterclasses, and conferences (with all symposia
 since 2014 realised with external stakeholders, see 3.7). c.7,522 people have engaged with
 Central’s 129 research events since January 2014.
 Scholarly infrastructure is fortified by our occasional ‘Queer Shifts’ (12 speakers/240
 participants) and regular ‘Practices and Processes’ seminar series (55 speakers/2170
 participants), offering a public forum for disseminating research across all our specialisms.
 Previous speakers have included Maggie Gale and Kate Dorney (UManchester), Prarthana
 Purkayastha (RHUL), and Liyang Xia (UOslo), as well as 18 residency-based VRFs invited to
 Central, including: Nadia Davids (UCapeTown), Kareem Khubchandani (Tufts), and David
 Román (USC). VRFs have contributed to our research culture, delivering PGR supervisor

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 training, PGR seminars, and staff mentoring. The VRF Scheme has developed Central’s
 transnational and interdisciplinary networks (see 1.4), leading also to sustained collaborations:
 as with care ethicist Maurice Hamington’s (Portland State) 2016 ‘Performing Care’ symposium
 with Stuart-Fisher and Latinx scholar Caridad Svich’s co-editorship with Cornford of CTR’s
 (20.2) issue on director Katie Mitchell (2020).
 Collaborations have also emerged from Central’s annual Theatre Workings lecture, where a
 prominent practitioner (e.g., Lee Hall, Dijana Milošević, Stefan Bläske, Dorinne Kondo) engages
 in public dialogue with one of Central’s researchers; Mark Ravenhill provided the foreword for
 Farrier’s Contemporary Drag Practices and Performers: Drag in a Changing Scene (2020); and
 Robert Icke’s collaboration with Radosavljević, who served as dramaturg on Icke’s Olivier-
 award-winning Oresteia (Almeida, 2016), continues with Icke’s VRF role (2020). Central’s
 hosting of STR’s annual Edward Gordon Craig Lecture also nurtures industry collaborations.
 Speakers, including directors and designers Lola Arias (2016), Oliver Frljic (2018), and
 Johannes Schütz (2019), have enriched our transnational research cluster, generating
 collaborative outputs — Delgado’s chapter in Lola Arias Re-enacting Life (2020) and
 Radosavljević’s co-edited issue of CTR Interventions (2018) on Frljic.

 3.4. Impact infrastructure supports pathways to impact through Central’s Research and KE
 strategies (see 1.3, REF5a.4.2), responding to impact policy developments following REF2014.
 Identifying a need to increase both interconnectivity between different parts of the institution and
 more efficient data capture, infrastructure now comprises three interrelated areas: services, KE-
 based resources (including e-infrastructure), and communications (networks).
 Institutional investment in an Impact Manager in 2017 to coordinate impact data gathering
 through an annual achievements survey (see REF5a.4.2) was enhanced by targeted investment
 in two academic KE Fellows (see 1.3). Paxton and Lobel delivered staff and PGR training
 sessions to embed impact into research and engaged researchers in one-to-one surgeries to
 support funding bids. Paxton has opened up opportunities for Central’s researchers to engage
 wider publics with their research: seven academics and four PGRs in UoL’s 2019 Being Human
 Festival; BBC Radio 3’s FreeThinking; visitor resource development for Historic Royal Palaces;
 supporting three researchers in AHRC/BBC New Generation Thinker applications. The wider
 results of this strategy are evidenced in Grochala and Paxton’s BA Rising Star Engagement
 Awards (2018, 2019) and Parry-Davies’ 2019–20 AHRC/BBC New Generation Thinker award.
 Impact is further supported with £106k investment in e-infrastructure, through data- and income-
 capture systems (see 3.5) — enhanced through our membership of the GuildHE Research
 Network which informs strategic decisions around research and impact, including the purchase
 of a license for Vertigo Ventures Impact Tracker.
 Impact imperatives are shaped through initiatives such as our VRF scheme (see 3.3), involving a
 number of practitioners from outside HE. Arts consultant Nike Jonah, curator Jo Rosenthal, and
 dramaturg/ecologist Ruth Little have all supported the embedding of impact priorities into our
 research through mentoring, workshops, and policy advice. Jonah’s bi-annual salons (2018–19)
 connected our researchers with significant Black and Global Majority practitioners and policy-
 makers, as part of our strategy to develop actionable diversity collaborations, as with DTA (see
 2b.4) and One Dance UK’s Dance of the African Diaspora (‘Dunham’s Data’, 2018–21).
 Awareness of policy-based impacts was expanded by a facilitation session run by the
 Parliamentary Office for Science and Technology (2018), encouraging researchers to engage
 UK Parliament with their expertise. Subsequently, Abraham’s COVID-19-lockdown projects
 (creating radio dramas documenting both the stories of unpaid carers and supporting older


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 adults sheltering in social housing) were selected by the Culture, Health and Wellbeing Alliance
 as case studies for a 2020 report How creativity and culture are supporting shielding and
 vulnerable people at home during Covid-19, discussed at an All-Party Parliamentary Group for
 Arts, Health and Wellbeing in July 2020. Parry-Davies’ June 2020 report on COVID-19’s impact
 on Filipino migrants in the UK informed Status Now’s campaign for the regularisation of
 undocumented migrants in the UK, resulting in a Parliamentary Early Day Motion to grant them
 leave to remain. Harradine was invited to join the All-Party Parliamentary Group on
 Bereavement and Paxton’s Parliamentary Academic Fellowship informs research and practice
 on public engagement with Parliament (see 1.3). The international reach of our policy-based
 impact is evidenced in Busby’s 2019 advisory work with the Mayor’s Office of Ostraya (Czech
 Republic) on community youth theatre and Nicholson-Sanz’s consultancy with the Corongo
 community (Peru, 2019–ongoing) for the broadening of public water policy on behalf of Andean,
 Amazon, and Afro-Peruvian peoples.

 3.5. 25% of outputs submitted to REF2021 were funded in part or wholly through external
 competitive research funding. Our strategies for generating research income involve a
 proactive approach to engaging researchers in funding applications through: dissemination and
 communication of new funding initiatives; and Research department investment in sabbaticals,
 pump-priming, and bid-writing consultancy (see 2a.2).
 Monthly funding bulletins, circulated to academic staff since January 2016, have generated more
 effective planning with funding bids built into sabbatical activities as broader three- and five-year
 plans. Pump-priming investment (see 2a.2) has allowed for teaching buy-out to develop 12
 funding bids. Our staff development strategy EDI scaffold ensures all researchers are
 supported in securing research funding, especially those applying for the first time, those on
 fixed-term or fractional positions, those returning from parental leave, or those with declared
 disabilities, building confidence and capacity and thus enhancing sustainability (see 2a.2–4).
 Mechanisms (see 2a.4) are based in considered evaluation of individual staff need and
 arrangement of reasonable adjustments.
 Eight staff secured external competitive income for REF2014, 25 have done so for REF2021.
 Large awards were made to staff with a track record of securing funding from research councils
 (e.g., Mackey, ‘Performing Places Bexley’, PI, Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local
 Government, £176k, 2017–19); to mid-career researchers (Elswit, ‘Dunham’s Data’, PI, AHRC,
 £575k, 2018–21; Radosavljević, ‘Aural/Oral Dramaturgies’, PI, AHRC, £202k, 2020–21); and
 ECRs (e.g., Buratta, ‘Outbox Theatre Company’, National Lottery Community Fund, 2018–22,
 £132k). AHRC Research Networking grants fostered new collaborations (e.g., White,
 interdisciplinary participatory performance project with UCalgary, £36k, 2019–20) and seed-
 funded practice research (e.g., Ploeger, digital performance work on the global politics of waste
 with UHong Kong, £35k, 2014–15) which has secured further funding from the AHRC, GCRF,
 and the museum sector totalling over £80k.
 Smaller awards consolidated collaborations (see 4.1) and developed areas of complementary
 transnational expertise: two competitive ECR fellowships (BA and Leverhulme) strengthened our
 research on community organisation (see 1.4); two Leverhulme Visiting Professorships
 (Christopher Balme, LMU, 2017–18; Anne Bogart, Columbia, 2018–19) generated
 interdisciplinary conferences, lectures, publications, and resources; a Leverhulme Emeritus
 Fellowship (Bush-Bailey, 2018–19) led to a new collaboration with the Australian National
 University on nineteenth-century touring theatres; Cornford’s Standing Conference of University
 Drama Departments (SCUDD) award for research in European Theatre (2017) and STR
 Stephen Joseph Award (2018) aided output completion. Central was awarded, led or


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 participated in 21 competitive awards from the European Research Commission (ERC),
 Leverhulme Trust, BA, and AHRC, in addition to the awards made via LAHP2 AHRC doctoral
 training consortium (see 2b.2). REF2014 showed £772k in HESA-reported external income,
 REF2021 shows £1.53m.
 Not all research income derives from sources reported in Central’s HESA returns. REF outputs
 were funded through awards made directly to theatre companies run by researchers (e.g., Men
 & Girls Dance, This Grief Thing, and Sheep Pig Goat realised by Harradine with Fevered Sleep,
 an Associate Artist at Central, supported through ACE NPO, Wellcome’s Sustaining Excellence,
 and Paul Hamlyn Foundation (PHF) funding to over £1.56m). ACE funding supported outputs
 and/or pathways to impact for Buratta’s And the Rest of Me Floats, Damian-Martin’s
 Collaborative Critique, and Rushe’s work on Loaded (2017–18) — the latter also funded by Old
 Rep Birmingham, British Science Association, and Unity Trust. Parker’s work as scenographer
 on Aida was commissioned by Opera North, one of her four collaborations during this REF
 period with major companies including Glyndebourne (The Barber of Seville, 2016, 2019) and
 Dublin’s Abbey Theatre (On Raftery’s Hill, 2018). In addition, co-produced conferences (see 3.7)
 and wider activities (see 4.11–14) demonstrate the range of funding secured to commission,
 undertake, and disseminate our research with a system introduced to capture research income
 from non-HESA reported sources. Over £2.43m has supported outputs submitted to REF2021
 through 36 organisations, including: Arts Council of Ireland, British Council, and Mondriaan
 Foundation.

 3.6. Staff and PGRs at Central benefit from industry-standard specialist facilities and an
 operational infrastructure that provides technical expertise to support practice research and
 research events. Our 234-seat proscenium Embassy Theatre and 80-seat New Studio hosted 11
 conferences/symposia (see 3.7), our annual Collisions festival (see 2b.4), and 19 Theatre
 Workings, Edward Gordon Craig, and Leverhulme Professorship lectures (see 3.3, 3.5). Our
 £16.7m North Block (opened January 2019), enhanced facilities for research — including two
 black box performance spaces, 10 sprung-floor rehearsal rooms, four specialist video editing
 suites, and a professional standard recording studio — with a 125-seat Courtyard Theatre
 incorporating a fully LED Production Lighting system and an acoustically isolated Sound Stage.
 In all, the North Block boasts five high-ceiling studios, three being digitally interconnected.
 Central benefits from in-kind support and benefits from stakeholders at the cutting edge of
 performance technologies: d&b Audiotechnick have loaned the Embassy Theatre’s sound
 system. Autograph and Flashlight provided up to 50% discounts on professional audio and
 lighting equipment totalling £107k. Relationships with leading suppliers provide heavily
 discounted or loan opportunities (c.£43k use of additional equipment via industry leaders,
 including Robe, White Light, and DigiCo).
 Researchers also draw on the specialist input of the Technical and Production Department (13.4
 FTE), whether through high-resolution image capture for publications, digital applications and
 streaming for public performances and lectures, specialist assistance with AutoCAD and
 Vectorworks drafting software, or costume loans for participatory research with community
 organisations. Our specialist facilities and infrastructure have supported 43 PGR practice
 research projects, 10 outputs submitted to REF2021 (including Brown’s Sound Effect and
 Ploeger’s Recycled Coil), and R&D for 16 further research projects, including Parker’s Carmen
 (Grange Festival, 2017) and Rushe’s Night Just Before the Forests (Macau Arts Festival, 2018).

 3.7. Central’s facilities (see 3.6) and its close working relationships with a range of cultural and
 creative industry stakeholders facilitates a collaborative use of research infrastructure.


                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All 19 conferences/symposia we organised — 11 hosted at Central — were delivered with 23
 external partners, including: ‘Thomas Ostermeier: Reinventing Directors’ Theatre at the
 Schaubühne Berlin (with UKent, UEssex, UBirmingham, Sorbonne Paris 3, Institut Français,
 Goethe-Institut, 2014); Tonic Advance symposium on Gender Equality and the Performing Arts
 Industries (ACE, PHF, 2016); ‘Brexit the Stage: What’s Next for British Theatre and Europe?’
 (V&A, 2017). Together with 20+ events related to industry, social, and cultural impact
 — including ‘Future Play’, examining models for touring performance for children, PHF-funded
 (2015) and ‘I am Here’ with Positively UK, funded by Public Health England for National
 Women’s Day (2019) — these collaborations brought community and industry stakeholders to
 Central and underpinned impact activities in our Impact Case Studies.
 During the North Block build (2017–19), Central collaborated intercollegially with UoL HEIs
 (Institute for Modern Languages Research (IMLR), KCL) and with heritage partners (V&A and
 ICA) on 14 research seminars and masterclasses branded as Central@. These expanded
 existing collaborations (Fisher’s with Gotman/KCL and Delgado’s with the IMLR where she is
 Honorary Research Fellow) and developed new engagements, including Christin Essen
 (VanderbiltU) on the gendering of backstage labour for Central@Kings and Venice Film Festival
 Golden Lion winner Lorenzo Vigas’s Central@ICA (2016) masterclass — the latter initiating a
 collaboration with the ICA on its annual Frames of Representation Festival which now has a
 funded PGR placement.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy, and society

 4.1. Our vision for research is rooted in a model of academic citizenship where collaboration is
 core to our contribution to the field, the research base, society, and industry. Research
 collaborations, anchored in our disciplinary networks (Performance Philosophy Network,
 Dramaturgs’ Network UK, ETRN) and subject associations (IFTR, TaPRA, PSi, Association of
 Hispanists of Great Britain and Ireland), were supported through seed funding for joint projects
 with HEI partners (RHUL/‘Staging Difficult Pasts’, Ohio State/‘Dunham’s Data’) — producing
 eight successful bids with 11 HEI partners (see 3.5). We supported the realisation of 27 co-
 edited outputs involving curatorial collaborations with 19 HEIs including Goldsmiths, UCL, and
 UCLA — from the purchase of image rights to copy-editing (see 1.2.3, 2a.2). Central’s
 academics produced 33 (co-)edited collections/journal issues with contributions from 135+ artists
 and industry researchers, and 240+ academics and PGRs from 142 HEIs in 43+ countries; 18 of
 these volumes are submitted to REF2021. Our work as journal and series editors has involved
 collaborations with 14 co-editors across 11 HEIs (see 4.4). Delgado and Tompkins’ ‘The
 Practices and Politics of Editing’ (CTR 25.1, 2015) won TaPRA’s Research Prize for Editing in
 2017 with Farrier and Campbell’s Queer Dramaturgies also shortlisted. Astles, Mello, and
 Orenstein’s Women and Puppetry was a finalist for ATHE’s Excellence in Editing Award in 2020.

 4.2. Key roles in disciplinary bodies — as President, ATHE (Abrams, 2020–); Chair, TaPRA
 (Bush-Bailey, 2014–18); Working Groups Co-ordinator, TaPRA (Cornford, 2018–21); Executive
 Committee, IFTR (Delgado, 2019–22); Secretary, SCUDD (White, 2016–22); President, UNIMA
 Research Commission (Astles) — demonstrate a commitment to the field, through strategic
 guidance, administrative leadership, ECR mentoring, and service on essay competitions and
 award panels. Baker’s role as Member-at-Large for ATHE’s Black Theatre Association (2019–
 21), Chow’s role as Research Officer: Development and Public Engagement (2019–22) on
 TaPRA’s Executive Committee (responsible for diversifying the field through research
 mentorship and development), and Low and Ong’s membership of SCUDD’s Working Party



                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 compiling ‘Guidelines for Preventing Sexual Harassment’ (2018) demonstrate our responsibility
 to EDI leadership (see also 4.14).

 4.3. Our commitment to sustaining the discipline is reflected in roles such as: conference
 organisers/committee members for ATHE (2014), ASTR (2016), Dance Studies Association
 (2019), and the Society for Dance History Scholars/Congress on Research in Dance (2017); as
 Chair of ATHE’s Strategic Planning Committee (2017–19); as founder (2019) of the Summit of
 Leadership of DTP HE organisations (bringing together 20+ global bodies); co-founder and
 Steering Group member of the Practice Research Advisory Group (PRAG-UK); as convenors for
 nine ASTR, IFTR, PSi, IFTR and TaPRA Working Groups. Staff delivered 29 invited keynotes
 and 21 plenaries at conferences/symposia in 16 countries — from large-scale disciplinary fora of
 300+ delegates (ASTR, ATHE, TaPRA), to global events (e.g., ‘International Symposium on
 Practice as Research’, Hong Kong Academy for the Performing Arts) and specialist conventions
 (e.g., ‘Philosophy at Play’, Czech Academy of Sciences). 171 invited seminars and
 masterclasses were given at 48 HEIs in 26 countries, from Auckland Institute of Technology to
 Yunnan Arts University, with 47+ presentations/events at 32 HEIs or conferences with a specific
 PGR training remit. Seven staff provided sessions for the Chase, Techne, and LAHP AHRC-
 funded doctoral consortia (see 2b.4 for other collaborative PGR training arrangements). Of the
 229 conference/panel presentations in 25 countries, supported by internal funding (see 2a.2), a
 significant proportion exemplify our interdisciplinary focus (from the Society of Aesthetics to
 African American Digital Humanities).

 4.4. As editors of CTR (Delgado, Chow) and Studies in Theatre and Performance (Cornford,
 Zaroulia), and series co-editors of ‘Performing Landscapes’ (Mackey/Palgrave), ‘New World
 Choreographies’ (Boenisch, Elswit/Palgrave), and ‘Studies in Modern Theatre’ and ‘Theatre:
 Theory/Practice/Performance’ (Delgado/CUP, MUP), we have contributed to transnational
 dialogues, emerging disciplinary areas, supported ECRs and academics writing in English as a
 non-native language, and disseminated findings in both print and digital forms — working with
 299 contributors in 117 HEIs in 24 countries (see also 4.1). 14 researchers have been or are
 editorial board members of two book series and 20 journals from PAJ to Applied Theatre
 Research, with Busby, Damian-Martin, Elswit, and Parry-Davies also having roles as
 section/associate editors for RiDE, Performance Philosophy, ASAP/Journal, and Performance
 Research. Damian-Martin is a member of Live Art Development Agency’s Research and
 Publishing Committee. Our peer review for 47 journals, from subject specific publications like
 Theatre Journal and Modern Drama to other outlets (e.g., Environmental Education Research,
 Qualitative Research in Sport Exercise and Health) demonstrates both cross- and
 interdisciplinary reach and sector recognition of our expertise.

 4.5. Recognition is further evidenced in contributions to HEIs in externally evaluating
 tenure/promotion applications or sitting on professorial appointment committees: 36 across four
 continents (from CUNY to Chile’s Pontifical University); examining 50+ doctorates at 33 HEIs —
 11 outside the UK — and acting as PGR co-supervisors for four HEIs; reader’s reports for 20
 publishers (including 12 university presses); eight AHRC Peer Review College members
 (increased 167% from 2008–13), as well as our influence as members of the AHRC’s Digital
 Science and Digital & Data Infrastructures Focus Groups (2017, 2020). 18 researchers have
 assessed applications for 24 major grant awarding or learned bodies, including: Australian
 Academy of the Humanities, Austrian Science Fund, ERC, South Africa’s National Research
 Foundation, Wellcome. Further roles as an ACE Artistic and Quality Assessor (Delgado, 2010–
 17), on the Leverhulme Trust’s Advisory Panel (Delgado, ongoing), as an Arts Advisor for the
 PHF (Baker, 2017–20), and Special Advisor to Stanford’s annual Mellon postdoctoral

                                                                                         Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fellowships (Elswit), testify to the wider influence of our researchers on arts funding policies
 and practices.

 4.6. Our presence on national and international committees further corroborates this wider
 influence. Delgado’s roles on HEFCE’s Strategic Advisory Committee on Research and KE
 (2016–18), the founding Council of Research England (2018–20), JiSC’s Research Strategy
 Forum (2018–), HEFCE/RE’s KE Steering Group (2017–19), HEFCE’s Metrics Environment
 Group (2017–18), the review panel for the Engagement and Impact Panel Pilot for Australian
 Research Council’s ERA (2017), as an output assessor for Hong Kong RAE2020, and as
 REF2021 Subpanel 33 Chair and Deputy Chair of Main Panel D evidence her sector-wide
 influence in research leadership and assessment (see also 1.5, 4.5). Abraham sits on JiSC’s
 Digital Research Community Council; Boenisch served on the European Commission Advisory
 Panel for Creative Europe (2018).

 4.7. Staff participated in 16 grant committees in the UK (including Leverhulme Trust Major
 Research Fellowships, AHRC DTP2 Panel, NERC/AHRC/ESRC ‘Valuing Nature Programme,
 Health and Wellbeing’ Panel, Wellcome Arts Award) and beyond (e.g., European Science
 Foundation’s ‘Train 2 Move’ Humanities Panel) — evidencing our interdisciplinary expertise
 (see 1.4). Chairing and co-chairing responsibilities include OfS/RE Student KE Challenge
 Competition, AHRC Research Projects, and AHRC ‘Where Next?’ panels (all 2020).

 4.8. Fellowships and prizes awarded to researchers indicate recognition by the research
 base as well as wider cultural bodies. Eight staff held 22 invited externally funded visiting
 fellowships and professorships across 12 countries from Berlin’s Frei Universität to Peru’s
 Pontifical University, delivering PGR training, specialist seminars, and developing their own
 research. Practice research has been recognised with Ploeger’s VRHAMMY Award (Hamburg
 Festival of Art and Virtual Reality, 2018) and Rushe’s TG4 Gradam Comcharcheoil Award (2018)
 for Concert. Peer recognition is evidenced in: Elswit’s receipt of the Oscar G. Brockett Book Prize
 for Dance Research (2017), an honorable mention for the Callaway Prize (2016), and shortlisting
 for TaPRA’s ECR Prize (2016) for Watching Weimar Dance (CUP, 2014), and Honorable Mention
 for the ASTR Biennial Sally Banes Publication Prize for Theatre & Dance (2020); Paxton’s
 TaPRA ECR Prize for research on suffrage theatre and the Actresses’ Franchise League (2019;
 Grochala shortlisted, 2018); Mackey and Radosavljević’s TaPRA David Bradby Awards (2016,
 2015) for Challenging Concepts of Liquid Place and Theatre-Making (Palgrave, 2013) (Fisher
 and Kendrick shortlisted, 2018 and 2019). Recognising leadership achievements, Shepherd was
 elected a Fellow of the BA (2020), Delgado a Member of the Academia Europaea (2015), and
 Bush-Bailey and Delgado made Honorary Life Members of SCUDD (2015). Delgado received
 ATHE’s Career Achievement Award in Academic Theatre (2020), the Cross of Alfonso X the Wise
 from the Spanish Ministry of Education and Culture (2017), the Ramon Llull Foundation Prize for
 the promotion of Catalan Culture (2018), and featured as one of UoL’s 150 Leading Women
 (2018) (see also 4.1).

 4.9. The contribution made by researchers to culture, the economy, and society is closely
 linked to the economic benefits of the arts, where our industry collaborations with key users
 extend from generating new audiences (see 4.13) to projects focussed on improving social
 cohesion within marginalised communities (see 4.11). These contributions are also
 evidenced in the wider activities and impact of research not captured in our Impact Case
 Studies, including: Baker’s with care-experienced young people leading to improved social and
 educational inclusion; Mackey’s with local authorities bringing about social integration through
 creative interventions in fractured communities in Bexley, Camden, and Oldham; Parker and

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Rushe’s co-creation of new forms of artistic expression (see 4.13). All demonstrate our
 commitment to exchanges with audiences, users, and beneficiaries; to diversifying our
 collaborative base; and to enriching our research environment — strategies vital to cultivating
 and engaging our ‘publics’ (see 4.10–15).

 4.10. We have interacted and engaged with key users, disseminating knowledge of cutting-
 edge artistic developments and assessing quality to inform industry decision-making processes,
 through: advisory roles for commissioners of work (e.g., DT+, CAESUUR, NL) and arts funders
 (see 4.5); membership of competition juries (Birmingham European Festival, Ibsen International
 Award, LUKAS: UK Latin Awards, Portuguese Film Fund-Indie Lisboa); advising/reading for
 playwriting awards (European Drama Prize, Bruntwood Prize); in leadership roles across 13
 specialist industry bodies, including: Coleman, Chair of the British Association of
 Dramatherapists (2016–18); Shearing, Committee, Society of British Theatre Designers (2018–);
 Grochala, Co-ordinator, English-language committee of Eurodram (2016–19); Paxton, EDI
 Officer, The Magic Circle (2020–).

 4.11. Central Researchers integrate key beneficiaries, through co-creation and participation
 strategies, in developing the social impact of their research. Paxton’s workshops on
 women’s suffrage and feminist participation in the public sphere generated the design of ‘The
 Race to Equal Votes’ board game for EqualiTeas, UK Parliament Education and Engagement
 (2018). Damian-Martin led on the 2019 Migrants in Culture survey — results feeding into
 Greater London Authority/Mayor of London Culture Seed planning, developing a 12-step
 COVID-19 recovery plan, with 30+ UK-wide organisations, feeding into the work of Inc. Arts,
 Freelancer Task Force, and What Next?. Seven programmes dedicated to ameliorating social
 and health issues have employed our researchers to evaluate efficacy and impact, leading to
 reports by Stuart-Fisher (funded by Esmée Fairbairn Foundation) on Little Fish’s prevention
 project with young men, examining understandings of consent in sexual relationships, and
 Abraham and Busby’s ‘Celebrating Success’ with Clean Break. As ‘trainers of trainers’,
 researchers have worked with 39+ organisations including Pan Intercultural Arts on youth knife
 crime (2019–21) and RHUL’s Social Work department on verbatim methodology for training
 qualified social workers (2014–19). 140+ workshops, delivered for theatres, schools, museums,
 libraries, youth, and community groups, expand access to the arts to widen its beneficiaries,
 and include Anderson’s AFDAS- (French Government Agency) recognised arts workshops for
 Théâtre de l’Oprimée (2014–15), Soltani’s sound design for Tamasha/SOAS’s audio dramas
 ‘Decolonising History’ (2018), and Shearing’s role as lead artist on the PHF-supported
 participation project with young people ‘What we’re made of’ (Transform Festival, 2019). Our
 GCRF strategy has built on this work with £96k of investment in participatory research with 29
 heritage bodies and NGOs to promote human rights, sustainable living, public health, and
 ecological digital cultures in Argentina, India, South Africa, and Kenya respectively.

 4.12. We have contributed to public understandings of traditions, productions, films, and
 artists from Shakespeare to drag kings, reaching audiences of over 100 million as media
 critics/contributors and speakers at arts venues. This is evidenced through invitations to:
 introduce 20+ film screenings and chair/participate in 125+ post-show discussions for live
 audiences (e.g., Curzon Cinemas, RSC); chair discussions with leading artists (e.g., Viggo
 Mortensen, Lemn Sissay), also included in DVD releases (e.g., Neruda, The Headless Woman);
 undertake 15+ programme notes for opera, theatre, and museum events (e.g., Almeida,
 Barbican, Teatro Real Madrid); participate in NTLive screenings (Yerma, Young Vic); speak at
 leading arts venues and festivals from the Venice Biennale to San Francisco Ballet (90+
 engagements). We have further engaged the public as contributors to leading print (e.g.,

                                                                                         Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Guardian, Sight & Sound, The Times), digital (e.g., Exeunt, The Theatre Times, Huffington Post,
 see also 1.5), and broadcast media outlets (50+ contributions, including guest appearances and
 specialist features for 25 programmes, including: BBC Radio 4’s Start the Week, Today, In Our
 Time, Women’s Hour, Front Row, Saturday Review; Radio 3’s FreeThinking, Time Traveller,
 Proms Plus; BBC4, BBC News; BBC Parliament; Catalunya Ràdio; CCTV-China; Sky News;
 TRT News.

 4.13. We have cultivated new audiences and supported new forms of artistic expression
 through relationships with 45+ venues touring and producing work in the UK and internationally
 with staff taking artistic/associate roles with theatre companies (see 2a.5), and professional
 contracts as designers (Shearing, Parker) and dramaturgs (Damian-Martin, Grochala,
 Radosavljević). Staff created 75+ artefacts and productions as writers, directors,
 choreographers, designers, and installation artists, including ‘ABBA: Super Troupers’ exhibition
 (Performance Director, Alexander, Royal Festival Hall, 2017–18) and Traces of Gold Dust
 (designer, Shearing, Royal Standard Liverpool, 2019). 15 of these are submitted as outputs to
 REF2021. Staff-curated exhibitions include Paxton’s ‘Dramatic Progress’ (see 1.3) and
 Ploeger’s ‘Bombs & Grenades’ Zeeland Maritime Museum (2019). An estimated 998,200
 persons have engaged with our practice research in the museum, gallery, theatre, and opera
 sectors since 2014.

 4.14. Researchers have made wider contributions to society and industry in regulatory roles:
 Coleman sits on the Health and Care Professions Council’s Continued Professional
 Development and Registration Panel since 2006 and its Fitness to Practice Panel (2001–15)
 monitoring nationwide standards. Additionally, sharing expertise as trustees and advisory board
 members for 15 organisations across England, staff have overseen governance procedures,
 facilitating the embedding of EDI in company policies (intimacy in the rehearsal room, flexible
 working, safeguarding): across the education sector (BRIT School, Guildhall School of Music
 and Drama); with theatre companies promoting the transformative potential of theatre (Bubble
 Theatre, Milk Presents); aiding participatory access to the arts (Full House, Tender Education
 and Arts); based in areas of low levels of engagement (Queens Theatre Hornchurch); exploring
 global voices (Actors Touring Company); and bodies promoting social advocacy for the arts (Arts
 and Health Forum).

 4.15. The prizes and recognition received by our staff indicate the influence of our co-created
 research to wider communities: Abraham’s collaboration with medical staff at the Imperial
 College Healthcare NHS Trust on enhancing wellbeing for patients with dementia led to the
 National Dementia Care Award for Outstanding Arts and Creativity in Dementia Care (2019),
 and finalist for both HSJ Mental Health Innovation for the Year and the Culture, Health and
 Wellbeing Alliance: Collective Power Award (2020). Baker’s QMUL Widening Participation
 Award (2017), and Busby, Harradine, and Parry-Davies’ shortlisting as finalists in three Times
 Higher awards (2016, 2017, 2020) and two Guardian education awards (both 2017) evidence
 the value of our research in its contribution to society in the UK and beyond.




                                                                                           Page 18
