Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Cardiff Metropolitan University
 Unit of Assessment:
 UOA32- Art & Design: History, Practice and Theory
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Since 2014, our Art and Design researchers have collaborated with 256 organisations from 40
 different countries, winning research and innovation funding totalling over £47M. This is an
 increase of 135% in grant capture compared to the last REF period and a 100% increase in the
 number of international projects. Other highlights include a 47% increase in the number of
 publications and a 108% increase in the number of interdisciplinary projects.

 Context and Structure
 For RAE2008 and REF2014, Cardiff Metropolitan University (Cardiff Met) was part of the Wales
 Institute for Research in Art and Design (WIRAD) UoA 34 submission that included the
 University of South Wales and the University of Wales Trinity Saint David. Since the 2014
 submission, research collaboration between WIRAD partner institutions has continued, and
 increased. However, due to changes to the structure of partner institutions (including mergers)
 and revised REF rules making a joint submission considerably less practical, a joint decision
 was taken to make separate submissions to REF2021.

 Art and Design (A&D) research within Cardiff Met is undertaken at the Cardiff School of Art and
 Design (CSAD), a traditional art school established in 1865, and the International Centre for
 Design and Research (PDR), a design focused research and innovation institute. CSAD’s
 research covers a broad range of subjects from Fine Art and Craft to Product Design and
 Architecture. It is home to many facilities founded on interdisciplinary research and works with
 partners from a broad range of academic and industry sectors. PDR was established in 1994 to
 develop new knowledge in product design and development. Its core principle is to champion the
 role of creativity in the development of transformational research and to challenge established
 ways of ‘thinking and doing’ in academia and industry. PDR’s research incorporates both
 exploratory and impact driven research and is often aimed at generating sustainable economic
 growth and social cohesion.

 Strategic Aim and Impact
 During this REF period, our strategic aim has been the delivery of social and economic
 benefits nationally and internationally and has centred on three components:

 1. Increasing the range and value of funding streams that we access
 The table below highlights the growth in the number of high value projects over the last period.

                                                         REF2014               REF2021
  Total value of research awards                         £20,158,221            £47,381,917
  Value to Cardiff Met                                   £5,817,282            £8,052,300
  Number of projects from cherished sources*             14                    47
  Total awards from cherished sources                    £3,407,653            £20,060,411
  Value to Cardiff Met from cherished sources            £723,105              £4,083,465

 *UKRI, British Council, Major Charities, Horizon 2020, EU Rural Development, EU Creative
 Europe

 Two examples of projects funded by cherished sources are:
    • The Creative Industries Clusters programme, a £5.4M project funded by the Arts and
       Humanities Research Council (AHRC) and in partnership with Cardiff University and
       University of South Wales aimed at increasing the R&D potential of screen media and
       news companies.
    • A £913K project in collaboration with the NHS and Renishaw Plc, jointly funded by the
       Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) and Innovate UK to

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         automate part of the design and development process for personalised 3D printed
         medical implants.

 This strategy has helped in the development of our national and international networks,
 enhancing the reputation of our staff and aiding staff development.

 2. Growth in interdisciplinary and international activity
 The table below highlights the growth in interdisciplinary and international activity compared to
 the last REF period.

                                                          REF2014                 REF2021
  Number of interdisciplinary projects                    26                      54
  Total interdisciplinary awards                          £9,995,657              £43,374,182
  Cardiff Met Value of interdisciplinary awards           £2,786,204              £5,994,653
  Number of international projects                         9                      18
  Total international awards                              £12,820,489             £12,461,789
  Cardiff Met Value of international awards               £1,108,664              £2,223,657

 Examples of projects with significant interdisciplinary and/or international dimensions are:
    • PRESTIGE - a 16 partner pan-European Horizon 2020 project examining the
       development of smart materials and their role in addressing societal problems. This
       €7.7m project, led by Energie Atomique, France combines Engineering, Sociology,
       Polymer Science and Design from institutions in France, UK, Finland, Spain, Sweden,
       Germany, Austria and Greece.
    • Two EU Interreg projects led by Cardiff Met, using design research to develop innovation
       policies and business action support across Europe. These projects have a combined
       value of €3.7m and involve 14 partners across the UK, Belgium, Greece, Latvia, Poland,
       Spain, Ireland, France and Portugal.

 3. Enabling growth within our research base
 The table below highlights the strategic growth in our research base over the REF cycle.

                                                                   REF2014            REF2021
  Number of research student completions                           14                 29
  Number of independently research active staff (FTE)              10                 241
  Number of research assistants                                    6                  23
  Number of Professors                                             7                  10
  % Female Research Leaders                                        24%                47%

 Section 2 demonstrates how we have met our strategic ambitions by supporting staff to grow as
 researchers.

 Open Access
 We have made significant advances in making our research more open and accessible. For
 example, we have invested in staff training in the use of institutional facilities such as our
 DSpace and Figshare repositories, which make research results searchable and shareable
 within cross-institutional teams and with the public. DSpace hosts open access versions of our
 academic publications and other dissemination material, making our work available to a wider
 audience and allowing us to share research findings, best practice and data sets. In this REF
 period there were 231,147 downloads compared to 37,021 downloads in the last REF cycle.
 Open access also gives transparency to our processes, enhancing the credibility of our work and
 providing trust in our findings. Figshare, an online platform that enables data to be shared both
 publicly and privately with named collaborators, was introduced in 2018. It presents an exciting
 opportunity for practice-based researchers to make data publicly available and accessible.


1 One of our independently research active staff is a member of another academic school at Cardiff Met.


                                                                                                    Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Where appropriate, material detailing the research process can be made easily available
 detailing each step from initial ideas and sketches to finished output and dissemination.

 Training delivered in collaboration with the institution’s Information Services Department helps
 staff make their research more open and accessible and increases their knowledge of
 Intellectual Property, licensing issues, GDPR and research ethics. This ensures researchers can
 make informed choices about what data can be shared on open access platforms. At the start of
 projects, researchers produce data management plans (along the lines of those required by
 Research Councils). These plans ensure all partners are informed of their responsibilities and
 how the data can be used after the project completes. Staff are supported to adhere to the data
 management requirements of funders and budgets are available to support publication in open
 access journals.

 Future Strategic Aims
 Our overarching strategic aim is to continue our focus on the delivery of social and economic
 benefits nationally and internationally. This is predicated on A&D research having much to
 offer in addressing global challenges in partnership with other disciplines.

 Building on our significant advances in internationalisation and interdisciplinary research, we will
 help more of our researchers to develop and grow by exploiting funders’ interests in Global
 Challenges. Our future strategy, therefore, is to raise the visibility of A&D research and broaden
 our impact through greater involvement in strategic issues such as healthy ageing, sustainability,
 education, global challenges and innovation strategies. While our previous strategy was to be
 more involved in international, interdisciplinary projects, the future strategy is to play a more
 leading part in major research projects, including through more PI roles.

 Involvement in the £5.4M AHRC Creative Industries Clusters project indicates a level of maturity
 in some of our research areas, where expertise developed from international collaborations is
 being used to address industrial challenges in South East Wales. In the next REF cycle, we will
 expand on our success, participating in more projects that draw on our expertise to address
 challenges within the UK and beyond. Further, we will seek to increase the numbers of A&D
 researchers that lead work-packages and funded projects. The development of people will
 continue to be the driving factor in our strategy, utilising the experience of our Professors,
 Readers, and other senior researchers to develop Early Career Researchers.

 Our research will also contribute to, and pioneer, University level initiatives to increase the
 quality, reach and impact of Cardiff Met research. For example, Cardiff Met is currently
 implementing a Global Academies initiative, with one of the new Academies being ‘Human
 Centred Design’. These academies promote international and interdisciplinary collaboration to
 address challenging global priorities. Additional research staff will be recruited to lead and
 support the Global Academies. We will continue to use such mechanisms, not only to grow our
 current research interests, but to develop new research foci such as A&D pedagogy.
 Increasingly, we will undertake research in ways that encourage and promote open access,
 making use of the infrastructure investments Cardiff Met has made in open access platforms
 designed to keep pace with relevant web accessibility standards and which meet the evolving
 principles of Open Research Data (ORD). We will also work closely with central units to ensure
 that we remain aware of emerging platforms and practices that enable more effective sharing of
 peer-reviewed research. This will include improving staff engagement with new platforms and
 increasing understanding of the benefits associated with Open Research Data

 2. People

 One of our key strategies has been growth of our research base through a proactive approach to
 staffing and staff development. A&D has been home to 23 Research Assistants (RAs) this REF
 period compared to six in the last, made 24 new academic/research appointments, and added
 16 new research degree Supervisors. Six Professorial awards and one Readership award


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have been made, and the percentage of female research leaders has increased by 133% since
 2014.

 Recruitment: Cardiff Met made holding a doctoral degree an essential criterion for academic
 posts during this REF cycle as part of a strategic drive to increase the University’s research
 base. This significantly improved our research environment, with nine new staff holding
 doctorates doubling the number of staff with PhDs since 2014. This has strengthened existing
 areas of expertise (e.g. Human Centred Design, Sustainable Architecture, A&D Theory) and
 developed new areas of interest (e.g. Fashion and Photography).

 Progression: Researcher development and career progression at all levels are key to achieving
 our strategic aims of further research base growth and research income diversification. Formal
 development structures are in place including mentoring, training, network building, internal
 funding and performance metrics. Led by the Associate Dean for Research in CSAD and the
 Research Director in PDR, these ensure research is at the heart of all operations including
 performance reviews and workload allocation. Of the 23 RAs employed during the period,
 Baldwin, McLaughlin, Ruta, Ward and Watkins became Post-Doc RAs. Ruta, Taylor and
 Waldron are all engaged on their first RA contracts, while Baldwin, Burleigh, Fennell and
 Ward have all been promoted and are on their second contracts. Watkins is now a Director of
 Programmes in CSAD, charged with both Product and Fashion Design. Alam, McLaughlin,
 Vigers and Zitkus are employed at other academic institutions (Brighton, Bangor, Bristol and
 Loughborough respectively).

 The strong relationship between CSAD and PDR offers additional routes for career progression
 within Cardiff Met. Where research interests align, co-supervision and mentoring is provided.
 Nine staff: Andrews, Clarke, Eggbeer, Green, Gordon, Kopanoglu, Ruff, Walters, and Wong
 have progressed their education and careers through a combination of CSAD and PDR. For
 example:

    •   Clarke - BA and MSc (2008 – 2013) with CSAD, Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP)
        jointly supervised by CSAD and PDR (2013 – 2015); continued employment with industry
        partner until 2018, now working in PDR’s commercial team on projects including the
        Cooltone product for Allergan (part of a £2.96M collaboration and described in our User
        Centred Design impact case study).
    •   Kopanoglu received a Cardiff Met bursary in 2017 and enrolled as a PDR PhD student,
        provided Associate Teaching cover in CSAD from 2018 and joined CSAD as a Product
        Design lecturer in 2020.

 Staff Development: The focus of staff development is to provide a responsive infrastructure
 within which researchers can develop the skills required to produce excellent research outputs
 with impact. Our research groups are a key vehicle for providing this support and benefit from
 targeted resources to build and strengthen their capacity, enabling active researchers to develop
 their portfolios and support emerging researchers to establish their research careers.

 The collaborative, diverse and interdisciplinary nature of our research groups have been
 instrumental in responding to Cardiff Met’s strategy to increase research income by broadening
 the opportunities, range of funding streams, and value of grants open to our researchers. Our
 aim to develop our interdisciplinary and international research experience is also reflected in the
 profiles of our four Visiting Professors, Hall (Cardiff, Medicine), Dix (Swansea, Computing), Park
 (Samsung, Design), and Weston (Cardiff, Architecture).

 We currently support nine research groups:

    •   CARIAD - Centre for Applied Research in Inclusive Art and Design (led by Keay-Bright
        and Treadaway, CSAD) seeks to improve peoples’ lives and address some of the most
        significant challenges facing society. CARIAD attracted 12 research students in the
        period, won over £684K in grants from the AHRC, Raspberry Pi Foundation and Welsh

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Government (WG) and launched a spin out company.

    •   Design and Innovation Policy (led by Whicher, PDR) takes a macro view of design,
        looking at national and regional innovation ecosystems and policies to support design
        and encourage environments that are conducive to the application of design. The group
        has advised 15 national, regional and local governments throughout Europe and
        secured £3.3M funding from AHRC and Interreg Europe.

    •   Eco Design (led by Beverley, PDR) looks at how design can be used to generate
        services and business models within a circular economy. The group is currently part of a
        €7.7M Horizon2020 research project centred on designing for smart materials, with their
        role being to develop sustainable and circular business models. Beverley also leads an
        AHRC-commissioned project examining the role of design research in a Net Zero future.

    •   FAB-Cre8 (led by Murphy, CSAD) is a multi-disciplinary research group driven by an
        interest in emerging technologies, digital fabrication, physical computing, the Internet of
        Things, and material investigation applied to a broad range of A&D contexts. The group
        have supported 11 projects, produced 28 research outputs and attracted over £247K
        from funders including the British Council, EU, Higher Education Academy (HEA) and
        WG.

    •   FovoLab (led by Pepperell, CSAD) is rooted in fine art practice and is primarily
        interested in how ideas and methods from art and science are combined to study visual
        perception and its representation. FovoLab has three international patents granted,
        three pending, and has generated a spin out company externally valued at £10.3M.

    •   MetaTechnicity (led by Thompson, CSAD) supports interdisciplinary and
        transdisciplinary research spanning A&D, Technology and the Sciences. Their key
        interest is the way in which technology affects and is influenced by human
        consciousness. The group is home to 12 research students and has increased its
        membership from two to 25 in the period, spanning A&D, archaeology, creative writing,
        education, microbiology, philosophy and sport.

    •   SuRBe - Sustainable and Resilient Built Environment (led by Littlewood, CSAD) works
        in partnership with social housing groups and focusses on sustainable design and
        construction of dwellings from an ecological perspective. The group supports the work of
        21 research students - many of whom are in receipt of competitively won scholarships -
        and has attracted over £676K in innovation awards and consultancy.

    •   SPD - Surgical and Prosthetic Design (led by Eggbeer, PDR) supports collaboration
        between healthcare professionals and wider stakeholders in the research, design and
        development of medically approved patient-specific devices. The group works closely
        with medical teams, has attracted £1M+ from funders including the EPSRC and received
        a 2015 Queen’s Anniversary Prize in recognition of the impact of their research.

    •   UCD - User Centred Design (led by Gill, CSAD) examines the importance of the human
        as the target of the design process and the prototype as a focus around which
        ethnographical research methods can be deployed. The group has supported the work of
        16 research students, many of whom have been in receipt of studentships, and has
        attracted £2M+ from a range of funders, including AHRC, Medical Research Council
        (MRC), WG and Innovate UK. Notable consultancy clients include Principality Building
        Society, Allergan and Kenwood.

 Each group is headed by a Professor or senior researcher and provides a platform for peer-to-
 peer support, postgraduate research (PGR) supervision, emerging researcher mentorship and
 support for active researchers to build their portfolios and experience. Groups have the freedom
 to develop their own approaches; for example, Metatechnicity focuses on research student

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 recruitment and curiosity-driven research, whereas User Centred Design focuses on securing
 research and innovation (R&I) grants to deliver applied research. Surgical and Prosthetic Design
 tends to respond to industry-driven healthcare needs, whereas CARIAD works closely with users
 and charity groups to support the wellbeing of vulnerable people.

 All our researchers have access to support for staff development, growth of international and
 interdisciplinary research and impact development. This is achieved through formal and informal
 structures to promote researcher development such as seed funding, training, peer-to-peer
 support, and activities to foster a collaborative, open and responsive research environment. For
 example:

    •   Researchers can apply for CSAD/PDR funding to support research activities. During the
        period, over £250K has been available to support the development of research outputs
        and new areas of research including small scale field research, funding application
        development, networking, equipment and training. A total of 28 researchers were
        supported to present work at 62 conferences in 18 countries.

    •   CSAD offers a range of A&D specific training including eight residential workshops on
        the island of Tiree, residential R&I skills training in the Brecon Beacons, and two
        residential workshops organised by research groups. A weekly series of public Research
        Seminars allow staff to showcase their research and a series of annual events focus on
        developing specific research skills.

    •   In 2018, CSAD re-introduced the ‘Early Career Research & Innovation Scheme’ in
        recognition of increased numbers of School staff new to academia. This competitive
        scheme runs for two years, with participants receiving dedicated funding for conference
        attendance, training, mentoring, and peer-to-peer support. Outcomes include ECR
        inclusion as co-investigators on the AHRC-funded Creative Industries Clusters
        programme and partnering in a £210K Welsh Government-funded SMART Expertise
        project on ‘Data Physicalisation’.

    •   Staff are given a minimum 271 hours per annum pro rata plus fee waiver allowance for
        Doctoral study, and 10 of our staff are currently completing PhDs. Staff also have the
        option of dedicated research leave.

    •   Informal peer-to-peer support is strongly encouraged. In addition to the support through
        research groups, we also operate informal schemes to encourage open discussion
        between staff. For example, Reading Groups to discuss latest research publications, and
        PDR’s ‘Cake Fridays’, a dedicated time in the working week for staff to informally get
        together and share information.

 Training and support is designed with both staff needs and strategic priorities in mind. During the
 period, all CSAD academic staff were invited to complete a five-year plan to outline their
 ambitions in line with School priorities. These individual plans feed into formal Staff Performance
 Reviews and annual workload allocations. Two new research groups emerged from this process:
 one focusing on Artistic Practice (Cazeaux) and another on Creative Learning (Loudon). Staff
 were also encouraged to think about the enablers behind their plans, including building networks
 and experience through internal and external committee/board membership and relationships
 with industry. Researchers are guided towards School, Institutional and external funding
 opportunities as appropriate.

 Our staff are encouraged to take advantage of formal University-wide research and innovation
 training opportunities such as: Supervisory Training; Women to Professor (designed to
 encourage more Readership and Professorship applications from female researchers); Early
 Career Researchers’ Forum; Academic Writing workshops; Interdisciplinary funding workshops;
 and support to attend residential funding workshops at the Missenden Centre. Organisational
 Development also provide training for skills associated with research and innovation, including

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 project management, social media, networking, chairing meetings, and technical skills such as
 designing electronic surveys.

 Staff are also supported to take advantage of external training opportunities and Fellowships.
 Four members of staff (Begum, Dorrington, Fennell, Walters) were selected for Welsh
 Crucible Fellowships, a highly competitive, national programme that focusses on professional
 development and leadership skills in Welsh universities. Whicher was awarded an AHRC
 Policy Fellowship in 2017 and Whicher and Beverley were awarded AHRC Design Fellowships
 in 2020.

 Support, Training and Supervision of PGR Students
 We are actively engaged in the support, training and supervision of PGR students at School and
 University level. Baldwin, Gill, Loudon, Littlewood, Thompson, Treadaway and Walters
 contribute to the delivery of university-wide training and support and were involved in a review of
 existing structures to adapt provision in order to better reflect the needs of contemporary PhD
 Scholarship. This included reviewing application and enrolment processes, monitoring
 processes, online delivery methods and novel modes of delivery and resulted in the introduction
 of a new structure in September 2020.

 We offer a range of doctoral programmes on a full and part-time basis. During the period, we
 enrolled 50 new research students and achieved 29 completions. The completion rate is a
 107% increase compared to REF2014, a reflection of strategic efforts to widen the research
 base and improve monitoring processes. The majority of research students are aligned to
 research groups, which promotes a sense of community and provide additional access to
 subject expertise and support.

 We actively seek opportunities to partner with industry to offer doctoral scholarships, so enabling
 us to support applications from talented applicants who may not be able to afford PGR study
 without access to a scholarship or programmes aligned with professional commitments. For
 example, four EU-funded Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships (KESS2) embedded research
 students (Duncan, Gilmore, Jahic, Zaccaro) in organisations to conduct a body of research of
 benefit to each respective business. We also secured three competitive Cardiff Met Research
 Innovation Awards to support research studentships within the period (Lawrence, Al Batlouni,
 Kopanoglu). These studentships involved active sector engagement, with recipients working
 with NHS patient community groups and Small or Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs) from the
 Welsh Food Industries Sector to develop and transfer new knowledge of benefit to the UK
 economy and society. Our Professional Doctorates are often sponsored by employers because
 they support an employee to develop a change management programme in their organisation
 that will lead to a new body of professional knowledge and organisational impact. These
 initiatives provide our PGRs with additional industry training and experience and bring fresh
 knowledge into the university, benefitting other PGRs through supervisory exposure to up-to-
 date industry knowledge. The applied nature of much of our research means this kind of external
 engagement is not limited to specific schemes with industry partners but is a feature of many
 programmes of study. Our PGRs have also worked with charities, schools and community
 groups through their association with research groups.

 In 2019/2020 CSAD trialled a ‘four-year PhD’ initiative for the University. The programme was
 instigated partly in response both to a University initiative to reduce completion times and a
 change in student loan regulations. It provides PGRs with additional training and experience,
 and includes a one-year Masters in Research in preparation for PhD study and a three-year PhD
 programme. PGRs on this programme start at a single enrolment point, with a view to
 developing a strong and motivated student cohort with access to supervision and peer-to-peer
 support.

 Our PGRs follow the same regulations and requirements for progression regardless of
 programme, with each assigned a Director of Studies and up to two additional supervisors.
 Supervisory teams hold formal progress reviews at three-monthly intervals for full-time PGRs

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (six-monthly for part-time), in addition to informal meetings. Progress is formally reviewed
 annually by School and Institutional Research Degrees Committees and recorded via PhD
 Manager, an online database accessible by research students and supervisory teams, which
 enables PGRs to manage their entire research programme. Functions include a Professional
 Development Portfolio, skills training records, records of supervisory meetings and changes to
 enrolment.

 CSAD has invested £57K in PGR support during the period, and A&D PGRs benefit from
 additional physical and financial resources including access to a dedicated research student
 room and funds to support research activities and equipment. PGRs in PDR are co-housed with
 the research team and are eligible for similar support from the research budget. All PGRs have
 access to an extensive A&D library and online publications and collections. During the
 coronavirus pandemic, all supervisory meetings and training events were moved online, and a
 click and collect service was provided by the library. The launch of Cardiff Met’s online Doctoral
 Academy, an interactive support portal for PGRs that includes online training, study resources
 and communication, was brought forward to deliver enhanced support during the pandemic. As
 a result, the 2020 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey saw us achieve a 95% overall
 satisfaction level compared to the UK average of 73% for A&D.

 Cardiff Met’s skills development programmes are based around the Vitae ‘Researcher
 Development Framework’. PGRs are encouraged to dedicate 20 hours per year to develop their
 transferable skills, and to support this, 132 individual research events were held in the period in
 addition to an annual ‘Research Skills week’. This compares to 94 events in the last REF cycle.
 Research students are strongly encouraged to present ‘work in progress’ at these events to
 develop writing and presentation skills. Other support activities included a research methods
 residential workshop (Brecon Beacons) and an article writing workshop. PGRs are also
 supported to take advantage of external training at Cardiff University’s ‘Effective Researcher’
 programme and to present at conferences and publish their research. Our PGRs have had
 considerable success in disseminating their research outputs during the period, with eight
 receiving awards and prizes for their work. Examples include Eardley (best paper, DIS 2018),
 Hong Kong and Younan being awarded a research residency at the ceramic studio in the
 Faculty of Art and Design, Bandung Institute of Technology, Indonesia (2014).

 PGR students are encouraged to contribute to taught programmes and are eligible to apply for
 formal tutoring or technician roles that allow them up to six hours of paid work per week. During
 the period Cardiff Met approved a Code of Practice for PGRs who support L&T, which outlines
 responsibilities and establishes a specific teaching role for PGR students. The student voice is
 actively sought to enhance decision making and facilitate the co-creation of initiatives and
 schemes. As a result, research students are encouraged to join committees and boards, such as
 the Cardiff Met Research Student Committee, the CSAD Research Degrees Sub-Committee and
 CSAD Ethics panel. This not only provides insight into research processes and practices, but is
 also invaluable experience in writing applications, communicating research ideas effectively and
 being part of a decision-making body.

 Equality and Diversity
 In 2018, CSAD was awarded a departmental Athena SWAN Bronze Award. The application was,
 in part, prompted by a review of the A&D REF2014 submission and the gender imbalance of
 submitted staff. The School instigated initial enquires into possible explanations by holding a
 focus group to explore the question - “Are we doing enough to support the School’s female
 researchers?” Results highlighted areas for change, which were subsequently used to underpin
 the Athena SWAN departmental application.

 Three significant findings from the work were: ‘research guilt’, where female researchers in
 particular felt they had to justify spending time on research; a lack of ‘head space’ or clear time
 to focus on research during the academic year; and, a higher proportion of female staff seeing
 L&T management as a route for career progression over research. A number of initiatives were
 introduced to address these issues. They included:

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     •   legitimising time spent on research by ensuring research objectives are included in all
         annual staff performance reviews;
     •   introducing ‘meeting free’ periods at the end of the Spring and Summer terms, and
         before school holidays start, to ensure space is formally available for staff to spend on
         research;
     •   restructuring Programme Director roles to free up time for R&I activities;
     •   supporting conversations with line managers to put in place arrangements for research
         time that fits around caring responsibilities.

 As a result, 44% of A&D researchers returned to REF2021 are female, a significant
 improvement on the 15% returned in REF2014 and an exact match for the 44% of our REF
 eligible pool who are female (compared to 33% in 2014).

 36% of our A&D Professors and Readers are female (compared to 30% in 2014) a figure we are
 the process of maintaining and improving by identifying potential women research leaders at an
 early stage in their career and encouraging them to attend the Women to Professors Action
 Learning Sets. Alongside peer-to-peer support and mentoring, the workshops make routes and
 requirements for promotion explicit and encourage attendees to align objectives in performance
 reviews with requirements for promotion. Seven female A&D researchers have taken advantage
 of this programme of support (Canavan, Gordon, Hayles, Lawrence, Morgan, Rigby,
 Watkins).

 We have also seen a 47% increase in the number of female PGR students, a 44% increase in
 the number of PGR students over the age of 35 and a 149% increase in BAME (Black, Asian
 and Minority Ethnic) students. During the period, four PGRs have taken a combined total of six
 periods of parental leave. PGRs have the option to change their enrolment during their course of
 study, from full to part time (or vice versa) or suspend their studies if their personal
 circumstances change. On return PGRs agree a period over which to phase re-engagement with
 their research, and if appropriate, update their knowledge of the field before new milestones are
 established.

 In line with Cardiff Met policies, all essential meetings take place within core working hours
 (10am-3pm) and dates of essential meetings are communicated well in advance to ensure that
 attendance can be planned. Work is also ongoing to make Cardiff Met’s family friendly policies,
 such as flexible working and parental leave more accessible to staff. This has included
 developing guidance for line managers on implementing policies. For example, advice on putting
 in place arrangements to support parental or sickness leave and return to work after an
 extended period of leave. During the period, researchers working on major projects, or staff on
 research only contracts, have not needed to implement these policies, but many take advantage
 of flexible working policies to fit around caring responsibilities and remote working options. The
 majority of arrangements are informal, but some staff have chosen to put formal agreements in
 place, which have been shown to work very successfully.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Art & Design researchers captured £47.4M in this REF cycle, including £8M in research funding
 reported to the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA), an increase of 38% compared to
 the last REF period and includes 16 research council grants totalling £7.9M.

 Examples of AHRC funding include a £424K grant2 (PI Treadaway) for the Ludic Artefacts Using
 Gesture and Haptics (LAUGH) project, an interdisciplinary international collaboration that
 supported people with late stage dementia through designing innovative playful products; £612K


2 Full grant amount listed, as Cardiff Met staff was Principal Investigator


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of a £5.4M AHRC3 Creative Industries Clusters project grant, supporting R&D in the screen
 industry in the Cardiff City Region (Gill, Loudon, Murphy, Pigott, Walters); and £160K of a
 £468K grant for the Design Action Plan project, in partnership with Manchester Metropolitan
 University to develop an action plan optimising the strategic use of design in the UK’s public and
 private sectors (Walters, Whicher).

 Other significant grants include Welsh Government funding for three Smart Partnerships with
 businesses in Wales (£141K, Barham, Gordon, Loudon) which support short-term knowledge
 transfer projects; two Smart Expertise grants (£395K, Pigott, Treadaway); the Welsh
 Government Life Sciences Bridging fund (£63K, Gill); a grant from the MRC (Watkins, £55K of
 £151K) to develop and trial a first responder medical pack in Namibia; three Knowledge Transfer
 Partnerships (£522K, Barham, Littlewood, Walters) with manufacturing businesses in Wales;
 and four Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships (KESS2) (£258K, Gill, Hayles, Littlewood)
 from the European Social Fund (ESF).

 Other income sources include £1.5M from nine EU projects and £76K from charitable trusts and
 foundations. Examples of EU projects include ‘Design 4 Innovation’, a collaborative project led
 by PDR of eight European partners working together to promote design as a tool for user-
 centred innovation (Whicher, £358K of £1.5M); a European Art-Science-Technology Network
 for Digital Creativity (EASTN-DC) focusing on time-based digital arts (Kontogeorgakopolus,
 £115K of £1.2M); and the ‘Home Grown Homes’ project that is creating high-performance and
 affordable new homes from Welsh timber supply chains (Littlewood, £197K of £1.5M).

 Edwards was selected by the Arts Council Wales and awarded £180K to represent Wales at the
 2019 Venice Biennale for his solo exhibition Undo Things Undone, which foregrounded the
 particular context of working-class experiences and marginalisation within a Welsh community.
 In addition, Edwards was awarded a Turner Bursary (Prize) of £10K in 2020, one of ten British
 artists to receive the award based on his contribution to contemporary art. Stitt was awarded a
 £25K Arts Council of Wales, Create Wales Award in 2015 to explore the relationship between
 painting and installation art. Meanwhile, Murphy was one of six artists selected as part of a
 touring exhibition called ‘The Language of Clay’ and funded by the Arts Council of Wales (£78K).

 We generated £6.6M in commercial income (including £354K from the FabLab – our MIT-
 accredited digital fabrication workshop) through working with organisations and business on the
 design and development of new products and services nationally and internationally. A national
 example is a design research and development project with the Principality Building Society
 (£379K), while an international example is the development of a new product design strategy for
 Allergan (£2.96M), including the design and development of the ‘Cooltone’ product that is used
 to strengthen and tone patients’ muscle mass. Other income includes two British Council grants
 to partner Ukrainian academics and industry partners to help develop their creative economy
 (Morris, £79K).

 Infrastructure
 The University’s R&I activities are coordinated by Research and Innovation Services (RIS) with
 which we work closely to support research and knowledge exchange interactions with business
 and the wider community. The University R&I Committee is responsible for overseeing all R&I
 activities including policy, strategy, facilities, operations and performance and reports to
 Academic Board. The Research Degrees Committee reports to the R&I Committee. The
 University Ethics Committee (UEC), a sub-committee of Academic Board has ultimate
 responsibility for the maintenance and monitoring of ethics governance at university level to help
 ensure research quality and integrity. PDR and CSAD’s sub-committees (R&I, Research
 Degrees and Ethics) report directly to the University level committees.

 A&D research activities are overseen by an Associate Dean (Research) in CSAD and a
 Research Director in PDR. Both are members of their respective management and ethics

3 Cardiff Met income from total grant, as Cardiff Met staff were co-Investigators


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 committees as well as the University R&I and Research Degrees Committees. Both are also
 responsible for setting research strategy and encouraging and enabling research within CSAD
 and PDR respectively. This typically includes supporting staff to set research agendas,
 identifying opportunities for emerging researchers to collaborate on funding bids with more
 experienced colleagues, running training workshops, and providing feedback on applications
 and conference papers.

 We work closely with RIS, Finance and People Services to support the development of research
 alongside the University’s objectives. We have attracted over £4.7M from central resources to
 support the development of individual projects, resources, and research groups. For example,
 the University has invested £1.7M in supporting the FovoLab team to: develop their
 research into human visual perception; create new methods of representing visual experience in
 media; and launch a spin-out company (Fovo Technology Ltd), currently valued externally at
 £10.3M. Other examples include funding to support the creation of the new Perceptual
 Experience Lab; funding for Doctoral and Post-Doctoral Scholarships (Al Batlouni, Kopanaglu,
 Lawrence, Watkins); funding to support a number of research projects within the new FabCre8
 research group; and a number of ‘Get Started’ grants to nurture new R&I activities (Counsell,
 Hayles, Thomas).

 CSAD’s Associate Dean (Research) manages a dedicated annual research budget to support
 staff and research student activities. This amounted to £295K over the REF period: £154K for
 direct support of research activities (including micro grants) and dissemination; £57K for
 research student support and external supervision; and £84K for staff training and other costs.
 Where possible, we enhance central support, for example by contributing to central grants to
 support the appointment of Research Assistants at a higher grade and via the match funding of
 28 interdisciplinary research Micro Grants to support the development of the FabCre8
 research group.

 CSAD’s Academic Lead for research degrees oversees the management of research degrees
 and is responsible for PGR recruitment and progression, while a separate Professional
 Doctorate Coordinator is responsible for the operation and development of the Professional
 Doctorate Programme. Both role-holders are also members of the CSAD and University
 Research Degree Committees. Additional management and administrative support is provided
 by the R&I Manager, who operationalises CSAD’s R&I strategy, a R&I Coordinator and an
 Research Administrator who leads on supporting research degrees, research ethics and
 supporting the delivery of research projects and budget management. Together this R&I support
 team, known as CREATE, brings together operational structures to: increase opportunities for
 research knowledge transfer; increase opportunities to collaborate with external partners; grow
 Masters and PGR numbers by engaging students with research; and, improving the
 employability of our graduates by drawing on collaborative partnerships with industry.

 R&I activities are predominantly undertaken within research groups structured around a
 particular area of research or practice. Many research groups are interdisciplinary and often
 include staff from other schools (e.g. Education and Social Policy, Sport and Health Sciences,
 Technology, Management) as well as other universities (e.g. University of Cambridge, University
 of Oxford, University of Bristol, Cardiff University and University of Technology, Sydney). The
 research groups help researchers - particularly Early Career Researchers (ECRs) – develop
 their research and apply for funding.

 On-going research is disseminated via weekly research seminars and annual research fairs
 open to staff, PGRs, external organisations and the general public and showcasing the work in
 progress of various research groups. These activities help foster new connections, opportunities
 for interdisciplinary research and funding.

 In 2019, Cardiff Met introduced a revised Rewards and Incentives scheme which allows staff to
 benefit from funded research and innovation projects. The level of return is calculated based
 inversely on researcher experience: 20% for emerging researchers; 15% for active researchers;

                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and 10% for Professors. Revenue generated by the Rewards and Incentives scheme is ring-
 fenced for the staff who generated it and available for them to spend on supporting further R&I
 activity, such as conference attendance, training or networking.

 Facilities
 We have invested £4.6M in R&I facilities in the period. Examples include:

    •   FovoLab: 162m2 for the Fovography research group, with £1.7M investment to develop
        software and resources for research into human visual perception and the development
        of new methods of representing visual experience in media.

    •   FabLab: a £130K, 169m2, purpose-built open access digital workshop, home to the
        FabCre8 research group and providing a range of fabrication technologies, including high
        quality 3D printers, flatbed and rotary based CNC machines, large and powerful laser
        cutters, and 3D scanners.

    •   Perceptual Experience Laboratory (PEL): a £147K, 80m2 mixed-reality laboratory
        used to simulate real world environments through immersive sound, smell, temperature,
        and vision. PEL uses Fovography™ enabled technology developed by the FovoLab and
        conducts collaborative research between the UCD group and the Food Industry Centre at
        the University. PEL is part funded by the HELIX project (£345K of a £21M Welsh
        Government programme to strengthen Wales' food and drink sector) and is being used to
        improve the competitiveness of Welsh food products.

    •   PDR: a new £2.6M, 350m2 facility providing space for: research groups; laboratories for
        user studies and product testing; and a workshop equipped with the latest rapid
        prototyping technologies for new product development.

 The investment in the physical facilities is further enhanced by investment in key support
 systems such as Figshare, DSpace and PhD Manager. As highlighted in Sections 1 and 2, these
 support systems enable the efficient management and monitoring of research projects, both
 within Cardiff Met and for external collaborations. This includes the sharing of research findings,
 best practice and knowledge data sets to enable visibility, open access and transparency. These
 support systems are crucial in supporting our strategic aim of delivering social and economic
 benefits to Wales and beyond through the development of interdisciplinary and international
 research collaborations.

 We plan to develop the capabilities of our researchers and facilities to further interdisciplinary
 collaborations within Cardiff Met and beyond, particularly through the University’s Global
 Academies initiative.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our overarching strategic aim has been to use A&D Research and Innovation to deliver social
 and economic benefits nationally and internationally. This is predicated on the principle that,
 through collaboration and interdisciplinary partnership, A&D has the power to lead
 transformational change across a diverse range of communities and sectors. We have primarily
 reached our goal through growth of interdisciplinary and international activity, increasing the
 range and value of funding streams that we can access and growing our research base by
 investing in the development of staff activity. As a result, we have worked with over 50
 universities, 163 businesses and 43 other organizations from 40 different countries during the
 period.

 This was partially achieved through access to both unit and institutional level funding to seed
 collaborations and provide time for staff to engage in networking activities. Researchers are also
 encouraged to take advantage of external opportunities designed to provide the foundations for
 future research. These include: the Welsh Crucible scheme, which supports interdisciplinary

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 networking between academic institutions; Strategic Insight Partnerships (SiPs) that encourage
 academic staff to spend time based with industry partners; and Reverse SiPs that provide time
 for industry partners to spend time at Cardiff Met. Examples include Sugar Creative (Stickler),
 Qinetiq (Treadaway) and Wilmott Dixon (Whyman).

 Our aim is to develop these nascent relationships into larger projects by developing associations
 through opportunities such as: live projects with undergraduate students; KTP partnerships; and
 Research Student Scholarships. An example of how this approach can deliver national and
 international social and economic benefits is the Cardiff Trauma Pack. Developed in
 collaboration with Cardiff University’s Phoenix Project over a number of years, the Cardiff
 Trauma pack originated from Watkins’s PhD (supervised by Loudon and Gill, and Cardiff
 University School of Medicine’s Professor Hall). The project brought together ethnographic,
 user-centred design methods with medical expertise to develop an ultra-low-cost, lifesaving pack
 for use in rural Zambia by untrained and illiterate road accident first responders. Watkins’s
 research method involved collaboration with over one hundred local villagers in Zambia as well
 as medical staff working in rural health posts and district and city hospitals. Supported by a
 Cardiff Met Research Studentship (2012), the Medical Research Council (£55K of £151K, 2017-
 2018) and the Life Sciences Bridging Fund (£63K, 2017), the research resulted in the
 development of a range of spin-off designs. These included a first-response kit packed with life-
 saving equipment for use at the scene of road accidents in Namibia. Over the lifetime of the
 project collaborators have included: Cardiff University’s School of Medicine; the University of
 Namibia (School of Public Health); Namibian University of Science and Technology (Paramedic
 School); the Namibian Ministry of Health and Social Services; and Namibian Traffic Police. The
 project team have also worked with a number of stakeholders, who in an advisory capacity, have
 informed the pack’s development, including: International Federation of the Red Cross; Royal
 Centre for Defence Medicine (MoD); NHS; and Welsh Ambulance Trust. BCB International (a
 Cardiff-based manufacturer and MoD and International Red Cross supplier) have licensed the
 pack for manufacture, which is due to be released for sale in 2021.

 Another example of delivering social and economic benefits can be seen in our relationship with
 P&A Group, which designs and manufactures garden furniture throughout the UK. P&A wanted
 to develop their in-house design capabilities further by tapping into our UCD research expertise.
 In 2017, we secured an initial £23K SMART Partnership funding from the Welsh Government for
 a 12-month project, undertaking in-depth market research into the opportunities for creating new
 garden furniture ranges. The successful conclusion of that project led to a two-year KTP (2019,
 £141K) that focused on embedding UCD processes and strategies inside P&A. P&A
 consequently won best product awards in three categories at the UK’s leading garden and
 outdoor living trade show (glee) as well as best overall product.

 International Collaborations
 During this REF period we have formed 64 international collaborations covering 40 different
 countries, encompassing the Americas, Asia, Africa and Europe.




                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Many of these partnerships have provided opportunities for staff to engage with international
 platforms and knowledge exchanges. For example, during the period Granjon collaborated with
 teams in France and Luxembourg to create robotic artworks (Guido and Am I Robot?), while
 Murphy was one of four UK academics selected to contribute to the British Council’s Living
 Research: Making in China to conduct the first comprehensive study of the maker movement in
 China. Morris captured a British Council Creative Spark grant to collaborate with Ukraine’s Lviv
 National Academy of Art (LNAA) and PPV Knowledge Networks (an economic development
 agency in Ukraine) to incorporate innovation and student entrepreneurship into LNAA’s
 undergraduate curriculum.

 Loudon and Eggbeer have engaged in separate projects with Indian partners to improve
 healthcare in the country. Funded by an AHRC Networking Grant, Loudon’s research focused
 on the application of user-led design research methods to help improve the healthcare of
 indigenous communities in Kerala, India. The project was selected by the AHRC as one of their
 twelve Case Studies highlighting collaborative research with indigenous communities around the
 world. Key collaborators included the School of Engineering, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham;
 Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences; Amrita Kripa Charitable Hospital; members of the
 indigenous communities in Kerala; and the Centre for eHealth and Care Technology at the
 University of Agder, Norway. Eggbeer’s project, funded by the UK India Education Research
 Initiative (UKIERI), involved collaboration with the Faculty of Dental Sciences, King George’s
 Medical University, Lucknow. It involved designing medical grade implants for patients needing
 jaw reconstruction and correction of facial deformities. This project has been showcased by
 UKIERI as one of the top 10 global research projects funded by the British Council.

 Interdisciplinary Collaborations
 In a number of cases, our input to interdisciplinary research projects has demonstrated the
 importance of user and beneficiary participation and creativity as part of the research process.
 For example, Treadaway’s £424K AHRC-funded research project, LAUGH (Ludic Artefacts
 Using Gesture and Haptics), explored supporting people with advanced dementia through the
 design of innovative playful products. It resulted in the production of guidelines on designing for
 people with advanced dementia, distributed by both Alzheimer’s UK and Care England, and the
 creation of HUG™, a product shown to improve the wellbeing for 87% of people living with
 dementia. HUG™ is now prescribed on the NHS, while national and international interest led to
 the launch of a spin-out company in 2020, backed by over £105K investment capital including

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 over £61K from the UK Alzheimer’s Society. Another example is Beverley, who led work
 packages of the H2020 funded Prestige project (£254K of £6.95M grant, 2017 – 2020). This
 project, led by CEA (French alternative Energies and Atomic Energy Commission) explored how
 new generations of advanced materials and processes can be developed, up-scaled and
 integrated into novel interactive functionalities. Beverley led explorations on the potential for
 design to both add value to the products themselves and the business models around them,
 making both more environmentally sustainable.

 A further example is Whicher, who has run numerous successful EU-funded projects around
 Innovation practice within SMEs across Europe with a combined value of £3.2M. Her work
 identified best practice in delivering design support to SMEs in order to develop enhanced ERDF
 (European Regional Development Fund) operational programmes. Together, these programmes
 involved 14 European partners, comprised of regional European governments, design centres
 and innovation agencies and engaged with 1800 SMEs across 15 European Regions. Building
 on this work, and funded through an AHRC fellowship (£157K, 2017 – 2019), Whicher began to
 explore if, where and how design research might enhance policy-making through greater citizen
 involvement. To achieve this, the project involved collaboration with the Financial Conduct
 Authority (FCA), HM Revenue & Customs, Scottish Enterprise, Welsh Government, Belfast City
 Council, Northern Ireland Department of Finance, The Scottish Government, and The Cabinet
 Office.

 Another major project examining how design can contribute to both social and economic impact
 was Additive manufacture for Design-led Efficient Patient Treatment (ADEPT), led by Eggbeer.
 This £913K Innovate UK / EPSRC project (2014 – 2017) was a collaboration with Renishaw
 Plc, Abertawe Bro Morgannwg University Health Board and LPW Technology Ltd. The project
 sought to automate parts of the design process to increase efficiency in capturing individual
 patient anatomy to design and 3D print bespoke medical implants. The collaboration won The
 Engineer’s 2016 ‘Collaborate to Innovate’ Award in the Health & Wellbeing category.

 One further illustration of interdisciplinary collaboration is the combination of our experience in
 UCD with expertise from Cardiff University (News Media) and the University of South Wales
 (Film and TV) to run Clwstwr Creadigol (£612K of £5.4M, 2018-2023) part of the AHRC’s
 Creative Industries Clusters Programme. Clwstwr Creadigol builds on South Wales’ successful
 film and television industry by helping to develop the R&D capability of the sector. The role of
 our co-investigators’ (Gill, Loudon, Murphy, Pigott, Walters) is in transferring expert
 knowledge in the areas of UCD and emerging technologies to Welsh SMEs as a driver for
 innovation.

 Wider Contributions
 In order to develop new relationships, projects and partnerships that have positive societal
 impact during the period, our researchers have actively developed strategic positions of
 influence, sitting on 44 Advisory, Professional and Steering Boards. These range from, inter alia,
 Community Housing Networks (Littlewood) to Educational Associations (Wrenne and Dee), to
 Research Council Advisory Groups (Walters and Whicher). Five of our researchers have been
 Editors and Associate Editors, 11 have been journal reviewers across 32 journals, and seven
 have been conference committee members for 18 conferences. We also encourage membership
 of Peer Review Colleges including AHRC (Keay-Bright, Treadaway, Pepperell, Walters,
 Whicher, Gill and Loudon); EPSRC (Walters, Eggbeer, Littlewood); H2020 (Whicher); ESF
 (Walters); Arts Council of Wales (Ayscough, Murphy); and the Natural Environment Research
 Council (Hayles). Beverley, Cazeaux, Gill, Hayles, Keay-Bright, Littlewood, Loudon,
 Pepperell, Treadaway and Walters have all acted as external PhD Examiners in the period (35
 examinations). Meanwhile, Gill and Treadaway are Visiting Professors at Cardiff University and
 the University of Technology, Sydney respectively. These activities help to build the visibility of
 our researchers within the academic and wider communities and contributed to our invitations to
 conduct 56 invited public talks and keynote speeches at international conferences.



                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In recognition of the design work that we have undertaken nationally and internationally during
 this period, we have won 26 International Design Awards, including 12 IF Awards; seven
 Good Design Awards; three Red Dot Awards; three German Design Awards; and one San
 Francisco Design Week Honourable Mention.

 Contributions Beyond this UoA
 Our experience in A&D and creativity research was also applied by Loudon and Gordon to the
 Welsh Government-funded New Curriculum for Wales project (£48K of £713K, 2018-2020). As
 part of the government’s plans to develop a new curriculum for all schools in Wales by 2022, it
 commissioned Cardiff Met, Bangor University and University of Wales Trinity Saint David to use
 their research expertise to help teachers gain new skills and knowledge in how to conduct
 professional enquiries. As part of this project, we provided the specialist knowledge and
 expertise on how creative processes might be used to support professional enquiry. This work
 has been submitted as an impact case study for the Education UoA, while Loudon’s creativity
 research also contributes to an impact case study for the Business and Management Studies
 UoA.




                                                                                           Page 16
