Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Institution: King’s College London

    Unit of Assessment: 27 English Language and Literature

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Structure and overview
UOA27 brings together staff from the Department of English and those members of the Department
of Comparative Literature who work on colonial and postcolonial literatures and on languages with
strong historic connections with English. English and Comparative Literature have three joint
appointments. The UOA has almost trebled in size from 20.5 to 58.5 FTE since RAE2008 and
currently has 113 research students (PGRs). We have quadrupled our grant income since REF2014.
Our research profile combines historical coverage with theoretical and conceptual innovation.

To develop innovative and high-quality research methodologies, UOA27 works with departments
across KCL, including Medicine, War Studies, Social Sciences and Modern Languages. Seven of
the major research centres of the Faculty’s Arts and Humanities Research Institute (AHRI) are led
by colleagues in UOA27: the Centre for Late Antique and Medieval Studies (CLAMS); the London
Shakespeare Centre (LSC); the Centre for Enlightenment Studies (CES); the Centre for Life Writing
Research (CLWR); the Centre for Humanities and Health (CHH); the Centre for Modern Literature
and Culture (CMLC) and Queer@King’s. The AHRI centres are testament to the wide reach of our
research in and beyond the Faculty and the AHRI is a major vehicle for impact for our UoA. Beyond
the UK, we have very strong international links, including joint PhD programmes and research
projects, particularly with the University of Paris; Humboldt Berlin; Hong Kong (HKU); the University
of North Carolina (UNC); and Arizona State University (ASU).

We consider it our responsibility to build a strong future for our discipline. As we have grown, we
have developed a vision and a research strategy around a rebooted and forward-looking view of the
relationship between academic study, research and society. In 2018 we were awarded an Athena
Swan Bronze Award. The application process helped us rethink our commitment to ethics and
diversity, on both a small and large scale. The content and profile of our research, the institutional
structures we have created, the recruitment and treatment of our PGR students and staff and the
everyday culture of the workplace for everyone involved in our research environment: all are equally
involved in a vital and ongoing conversation about the ethical stakes of what we do. We believe this
ethos is vital to maintaining the excellence of our research.

Research strategy
Since REF2014 we have used six research clusters to build beyond our successful period-based
model and to release new energies and engage new staff through cross-UOA and cross-period
collaborations:

      Visual and Material Culture
      Literature, Medicine and Science
      Gender and Sexuality
      Post-Colonial
      Life-Writing, Creative Writing and Technologies of the Self
      Culture, Text and History

Each cluster has been supported by internal research funds for research and impact activities. The
clusters have proved very successful and have worked organically to transform our view of ourselves
as a research community. Their activity has generated five emergent cross-period and
interdisciplinary research strengths in the following thematic areas, the basis of significant
Departmental and Faculty investment in the next REF period:

      Health Humanities

Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Environmental Humanities
   World Literatures and Critical Race Studies
   Creative Practice and Performance
   Textual Production and the Organization of Knowledge

All of these reach out beyond UOA27. We propose to carry these forward as our research priorities
for the next five years (see below).

In REF2014, we identified seven strategic aims:

   To maintain a vital and sustainable research community, contributing at a high level to the
    discipline, nationally and internationally
   To consolidate our standing in three new areas: creative writing, contemporary literature and
    world literatures in English
   To embed impact at every level of research
   To support staff to apply for funding for major collaborative research projects and international
    networks
   To develop further our links with international universities
   To strengthen the work of the research clusters and support the Centres in securing research
    funding and developing impact
   To attract and support the best doctoral researchers.

We have achieved these aims as follows:

To grow and secure the future of our discipline, we have made 30 appointments, including 19
permanent posts, 17 at entry-level Lecturer grade. We have strengthened expertise in the medieval
period (Davies and Kears), Early Modern (Karim-Cooper), the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries (Starza
Smith, Grande, Emrys Jones, Murray and Thain), American literature (Sugden and Collins) and
modernism (Connor, Day and Clara Jones) and built on areas that were new to us in 2014:
contemporary literature (Balani, De’Ath and Roberts), creative writing (Howe and Wood) and world
literature (de Bruijn). A significant marker of success is the exceptional number and quality of
monographs published in this cycle (52 – almost one per FTE). More than half are published by
rigorously peer-reviewed presses, such as Oxford University Press, Cambridge University Press and
major US academic presses.

The permeability between Comparative Literature and English places all our research in the
international context of world literature. The appointments in contemporary literature, world literature
and creative writing noted above substantiate our commitment at this level, in both research and
education. Gilroy’s Tanner Lectures at Yale in 2014 mapped out an important critical agenda for race
studies; Elliott’s The Micreconomic Mode won two prizes; Majeed’s two-volume history of the
Linguistic Survey of India opened up scholarship for the study of world literature; Norridge’s
exhibition Rwanda in Photographs: Death Then, Life Now and her translation of Not My Time to Die
focused attention on contemporary African creative practice; Gotman and Kabir have worked on
dance theatre and practice in an international context; and Massai on contemporary global
Shakespeares.

A new doctoral programme in Creative Writing is consolidating the considerable strength of UOA27
in this area: this cycle has seen the publication of a major literary biography (Gordon), 4 books of
creative non-fiction (Day and Feigel); 2 novels (Feigel and Wood) and 4 substantial books of poetry
(Padel, Howe and Marshall).

As the impact of research has become a strategic priority on a national scale, UOA27 has supported
workshops to enhance impact literacy among research staff and provided impact support grants of
up to £3,000 per project to support all staff in ways appropriate to their career stage and research
projects. Embedding impact has also meant building community beyond the academy: our website
Strandlines enables us to co-create projects with our local community, including the homeless, and


Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
we have created an online international poetry journal, Wild Court, which uses poetry’s power
to connect with areas of life experience. We maintain one of the most vibrant open-access literary
blogs in the UK, King’s English. UOA27 has focused on engaging with the different publics around
us, inviting them to participate in our research. This has widened our knowledge base and helped
us as we design and embed impactful elements in projects to encourage people to interact with our
research, take it up and react or respond to it.

Substantial externally funded projects have catalysed a shift towards a deeper integration of impact
strategies into UOA27’s research environment. Facilitated by King’s Culture and by the AHRI
centres, five important UOA27 research-led exhibitions were held at Somerset House (see Section
4). We have augmented external funding for these projects with more than £70,000 of internal funds.
As an example, Das’ work on the role of Indian colonial subjects in World War One drew on 10 years
of archival work and has changed thinking in the film industry about what constitutes the colonial
archive and the uses of the literary in historical recovery. UOA27 funded leave to write the bid and
an ambitious public engagement programme, demonstrating how local strategies can support major
research interventions that drive global change.

A dedicated Research Grants Lead organises workshops on specific grant calls, targets individuals
to build confidence, arranges mentors and helps to frame ideas for funders. We receive outstanding
support from the Faculty’s Research Development Manager. We have successfully used College
seed-funding opportunities to grow big grants (eg a King’s Together award (see REF5a) to Vickers
to develop a Wellcome Research Development Programme application). UOA27 has targeted the
ERC in this cycle: three major European Research Council (ERC) projects came to fruition, including
Feigel’s Beyond Enemy Lines; Saunders’ and Brant’s Ego-Media; and Kabir’s Modern Moves:
Kinetic Transnationalism and Afro-Diasporic Rhythm Cultures. The Arts and Humanities Research
Council (AHRC) funded McMullan’s Shakespeare in the Royal Collections and Pettitt’s Scrambled
Messages; Humanities in the European Research Area (HERA) funded Das’ Colonials in WW1 (see
Section 3).

We have worked with King’s Global Institutes to grow our international network strategically
alongside our research priorities (eg with ASU). Longstanding relationships involving PGRs with
UNC, HKU and with the Humboldt and Freie universities in Berlin continue to grow, with shared
workshops, conferences, joint PhD programmes and Visiting Professorships. Links to the University
of Paris, including the Sorbonne, have been particularly productive in this cycle, generating
collaborations, publications and grant applications (see Section 4).

The research clusters have now evolved into clear strategic research priorities. Recent hires have
built capacity in these areas. UOA27’s Research Lead curates five cross-UOA cluster research
presentations for staff and PGRs each semester; recent topics have included trans-identities,
indigeneity and digital equality. The AHRI centres have helped us to develop pathways to innovation
and impact and enabled partnerships with other grant applicants (Feigel with War Studies; Vickers
with Social Science and Public Policy (SSPP) and King’s Health Partners (KHP); and Massai with
Birkbeck University).

UOA27 has been very successful in winning AHRC funding for PGRs through the London Arts and
Humanities Partnership (LAHP). PhDs are also supported on externally funded projects (Feigel,
Kabir and Pettitt). We have improved infrastructure (eg new study spaces for PGRs); built intellectual
community (eg Work in Progress sessions); supported student-led activities (eg The Abstract; PGR
Conferences); and offered more diversity and inclusion (D&I) and research integrity workshops. The
KCL Centre for Doctoral Studies offers another lively layer of training and support.

Research integrity
In this cycle, the Faculty has worked closely with the College Research Governance, Integrity and
Ethics Office (see REF5a) towards the implementation of the UK Concordat for Research Integrity
and we are working to identify arts and humanities-specific approaches (for example in relation to
co-production of research and decolonising research). The role of Faculty Research Integrity

Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Champion has been instituted as a high-level advocacy role and five research integrity advisers
have been appointed, involving both academic and professional services staff, for initial queries
and to develop arts and humanities approaches to and discipline-specific training for research
integrity. There are updated procedures for reporting allegations of research misconduct. We are
providing training at UoA level to our PGRs on plagiarism and other research integrity issues, and
we will continue to develop this in line with guidance from our research integrity advisers.


Open research
UOA27 has championed Open Research beyond the Open Access (OA) requirements of the REF
or funders. Just over one-third of our outputs are openly accessible. Six of our high-profile projects
have worked with King’s Digital Lab (KDL – see REF5a and Section 3) to produce dedicated OA
websites. Our OA blog, King’s English, showcases work in progress by staff and PGRs. The
Department Facebook and Twitter accounts reach 2,000–6,000 people with a single communication.
A suite of podcasts with Buzzsprout will be syndicated so that they appear as King’s English on a
range of podcast apps (Apple Podcasts, Spotify and Stitcher). Further open research initiatives
include in-house expertise from Collins’ work as trustee of the Open Library of Humanities, Birchall’s
membership of the editorial board of the Open Humanities Press and Smith’s expertise on YouTube.
Saunders’ Ego Media project is issuing an OA electronic monograph with Stanford University Press
in collaboration with King’s Digital Lab. Brant is centrally involved in a collaboration between the
Centre for Life Writing Research (CLWR) and National Gallery X, the gallery’s new virtual platform.
We will work closely with King’s Open Research Group Initiative (KORGI – see REF5a), KDL and
the existing expertise in UOA27 to develop our OA activities over the next five years.

Future strategy
UOA27 has created a vital and sustainable environment that has proved conducive to producing
research of world-leading quality and enabling outstanding impact. In the next REF cycle, we will
continue to deliver world-leading research outputs and long-term and sustainable impact by
providing space for individual and collaborative research planning, skills development and regular
opportunities to obtain start-up and scoping funding. Specifically, we will put energy into the
aforementioned five emerging areas of research strength identified through our cluster activities
(Health Humanities; Environmental Humanities; World Literatures and Critical Race Studies;
Creative and Performance Practice; Textual Production and the Organisation of Knowledge). This
will enable us to continue to place KCL at the heart of discussions of the future of the discipline. In
addition, we have identified four key strategic research aims for the next seven-year period:

   To keep D&I at the core of our research excellence so that we remain responsive and agile
    in a rapidly changing environment.
   To deepen and formalise our links and collaborations with non-academic organisations
    including but not limited to Citizens UK and patient organisations.
   To generate research grants, including large international trans-disciplinary bids, through
    long-term strategic planning and collaboration with Faculty and the AHRI.
   To develop a targeted strategy for PGR recruitment into areas of existing and developing
    strength with a strong D&I agenda.

Each of the thematic priorities identified above will generate new initiatives:

Health Humanities: UOA27 is creating new methodologies in the health humanities with new large-
scale projects on dementia (Zimmermann), on chronic illness (Vickers and ffrench [submitting in
UOA26]) and on AI and non-human care (Buckland and Franklin). We will also collaborate with
charities and the public sector, particularly ageing charities, and with the hospitals comprising King’s
Health Partners. Existing links with the Health Schools will be developed to create more
transdisciplinary projects and to attract external research funding.



Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Environmental Humanities: Climate change offers a challenge to all disciplines to work together to
change the future in a positive way. We will consult with colleagues in Geography and the School of
Population Health and Environmental Sciences on sharing our research to influence the public
rhetoric. We are already involved in an interdisciplinary Faculty-led collaboration with Sir Jonathan
Bate at ASU to create a transatlantic Environmental Humanities Research Centre. Boyson is
planning a large interdisciplinary grant on shared air and air pollution and Brant is planning a project
on underwater lives.

World Literatures and Critical Race Studies: The events of 2020 have put race and racism in the
headlines and highlighted the inequalities and exclusions in our research and our academic practice
more generally. We have made significant new hires in World Literatures and we will expand our
expertise in Black Atlantic writing with a new post in the Literatures and Cultures of the Black Atlantic
(Abolition to BLM). World Literatures and Critical Race Studies stretch across all historical periods
in the UOA and beyond our own departments too. Over the next five years, we will work to synergise
this work to develop a co-ordinated and high-profile expertise in World Literatures and Critical Race
Studies for our UOA.

Creative and Performance Practice: this seam of our research is an existing strength we can share
as a powerful enabler of transdisciplinary research projects. English has already initiated a major
new cross-Faculty initiative on performance, Performance@King’s, with English, Philosophy,
Modern Languages, Comparative Literature, Liberal Arts, Classics, Culture, Media & Creative
Industries and the Natural & Mathematical Sciences. Our Creative Writing team are part of this
initiative and will further consolidate this strength.

Textual Production and the Organization of Knowledge: ‘Literature’ and the ‘literary’ remain at
the centre of UOA27 and we see redefining, conserving and re-presenting literature for future
generations as a vital part of our work. King’s Digital Lab will be a key partner. Longstanding
partnerships with the Royal Society of Literature (RSL) and the British Library (BL) will grow.
Archivally based research projects (led by Collins, Smith, Turner, Pettitt, Thain, Franklin, Scott-
Baumann, Roberts and Padel) together with outstanding strengths in literary editing, digital
humanities and the development of new archival methodologies for creative and performance works,
will serve as a foundation for further work. With the BL, we will develop new work on the digital
archive.

A significant future priority for UOA27 is to embed research impact in the design of our projects.
We have identified the need to plan and support impact creation and impact data collection from the
inception of a project to its completion and UOA27 and the Faculty will provide a much-enhanced
service. Our Impact Lead is already identifying and supporting potential impact activity (in the work
of Birchall, Boyson, Davies, Kears, Saunders, Smith and Zimmermann). More proactive use will be
made of schemes such as the AHRC’s Follow-on Funding strand. We will institute a review of our
rich range of partnerships with cultural institutions to build them and their staff into our research plans
earlier to maximise opportunities for knowledge transfer in both directions. We have longstanding
teaching partnerships with the BL, the British Museum and Shakespeare’s Globe (strengthened by
the recent shared appointment of Karim-Cooper with the Globe).

In our strategy with regard to research funding we will work towards large-scale international and
trans-disciplinary projects. A generational culture shift with respect to grant capture means that
new-intake colleagues are applying more frequently for grants; we will support and grow this culture,
using internal College seed funding. Our outward-looking and collaborative strategy will help us to
maintain our record of success in obtaining funding for both large-scale collaborative and single
investigator research projects from the ERC, UK Research and Innovation (UKRI), Leverhulme
Trust, the British Academy (BA) and the Wellcome Trust, and to respond rapidly and creatively to
new research funding opportunities. PGRs will help develop our strategic research areas in Project
Enabler roles, which will come with small grants.

We will develop strategies to enhance the diversity of our PGR cohort. On a national scale,
funding a PhD is becoming increasingly difficult for all arts and humanities students and this has

Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
negative implications for the diversity of the cohort. In the next REF cycle, we will proactively address
the D&I issues around PhD recruitment; Karim-Cooper has £10,000 from King’s Race and Equality
Fund to establish an Early Modern Scholars of Colour Network and to build a BME pipeline. Pettitt
was Director of LAHP (2016–18) and we will use her and Karim-Cooper’s expertise to strategise
ways of improving the PhD pipeline.

Five-year strategy for infrastructure and income
While driving forward its five new research priorities, UOA27 will build on its grant-capture success
and work increasingly closely with its many cultural and community partners and with the AHRI. We
will shortly announce a major expansion of our partnership with Shakespeare’s Globe, merging the
London Shakespeare Centre with Globe Education. We are also expanding our collaborations with
the Department of Global Health and Social Medicine and with the hospitals allied to King’s on two
major projects, one of which is being carried out with the University of Paris. Cross-Faculty research
will open up new sources of PGR funding and training, as exemplified by Zimmermann’s UKRI
fellowship. The welcome news that the UK will continue to be eligible to apply for ERC grants under
Horizon 2020 means that we will put resource and energy into growing large interdisciplinary and
international projects for large-scale schemes such as this, whilst also continuing to support
colleagues in applying for single-investigator and smaller network and project awards.

 2. People

Equality of opportunity and recognition and promotion of diversity are integral to our academic
strengths. In line with KCL’s Vision 2029 and its guiding principle to ‘create an inclusive environment
where all individuals are valued and able to succeed’, UOA27 has maintained a strategy of recruiting,
developing and nurturing excellent researchers at all levels and ensures equality of opportunity for
all. Academic staff work closely with PGRs, ECRs, technicians and professional service staff,
creating a vibrant, collaborative culture directed towards the generation of internationally significant
research. To ensure that all can participate in this research culture irrespective of disability, ethnicity,
gender or caring responsibilities, we have put D&I issues explicitly at the centre of our community
and of our research, as described below.

Staffing strategy
Our staffing strategy has been driven by our desire to maintain and extend our leading role in the
discipline and to put diversity and inclusion at the heart of everything we do. Of the 30 appointments
we made at Lecturer grade, 17 were permanent new appointments. In the last two years, 1
permanent and 3 temporary appointments have been made, all of which attracted diverse
candidates. Thirteen of the permanent posts went to men, 6 to women (of which 3 to BME women).
19 members of staff have left or retired, including 7 professors and 2 readers (including Castillo,
Das, Eger, Gilroy, Howard, Lees, McDonagh, Palmer and Wright), and 7 fixed-term lecturers. The
majority of these posts have either been directly replaced or have been redeployed, according to our
strategic plan, with permanent junior posts in order to ensure sustainability. A replacement for Gilroy
is being recruited at Lecturer level and in line with Faculty and College’s Inclusive Recruitment
Guidelines described in Section 2. Of the 10 professors to emerge since 2014, 8 have been promoted
from within the Department, the exceptions being Thain, who came from NYU as Executive Dean of
the Faculty, and Karim-Cooper, who arrived in 2020. We have invested in ECRs and put a clear
emphasis on recognising and rewarding existing staff through promotion. We are still a majority
female department, as we were in 2014, but we now have more female professors than male. In
2014, there were 11 male professors to 7 female, whereas now there are 9 male to 11 female,
demonstrating a positive trend towards gender equality, ECR support and career progression, one
that the Department is committed to continuing in applications for promotion, leave and posts.
UOA27 has introduced a new Deputy Head of People and Planning role to support the Head of
Department with strategic planning.




Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Recruitment of new staff
We are committed to delivering on King’s Race Equality Action Plan and we have established
procedures to remove obstacles to BME recruitment. Our advertising, shortlisting and interview
procedures follow KCL’s Inclusive Recruitment Guidelines and Faculty’s new BME Staffing Working
Group guidelines. Our D&I Lead supports appointments committees during their short-listing and
interviewing processes. Ranasinha from UOA27 is Faculty D&I Lead and as part of a Faculty BME
Staffing Working Group has developed new Faculty guidelines on diversity and hiring practices,
which we have adopted. Karim-Cooper is a consultant on Diversity, Inclusion and Racial Justice in
Higher Education and has researched the BME pipeline into academia. She brings expertise and
valuable practical experience of how to make UOA27 reflect the difference and diversity in the world.

Equality, diversity and the REF
To ensure equity and diversity in our submission of the portfolio outputs to the REF, all eligible
publications were reviewed by one internal and one external reader. The Research Lead and the
Main Panel Lead made the final selection. In cases of outputs of equal rating, inclusivity of staff with
protected characteristics and representation of diverse research areas were the overriding principles
for selection.

Joining and working in UOA27
We have scrutinised all our systems and processes over the last REF period to ensure robust D&I
commitment on the journey from recruitment through early career and into senior positions in
UOA27. The College upholds the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers (2019), providing clear pathways to promotion and ensuring all research staff
(Research Assistants and Postdoctoral Fellows) are aware of and encouraged to participate in
relevant training and development opportunities. Ongoing appraisal of training needs occurs through
forward-looking annual Performance Development Reviews (PDRs), which are now required for all
research staff. The success of these processes is manifest in an impressive track record of research
staff employment after KCL: recently at Liverpool, Bristol, Mainz, Newcastle, QMUL and Grinnell
College Indiana.

Staff induction and training
All new members of academic staff receive induction at Departmental, School and College level,
which covers matters such as research funding, research integrity and open access. UOA27 now
has a dedicated Induction Lead who works informally with all new staff, including fixed term staff. All
new staff also have a mentor in their subject area. UOA27 induction is followed by a social event.
We now have a one-stop Sharepoint site where all necessary information is available. The College
level Leading Researchers Programme (see REF5a) has supported UOA27 staff (Vickers and
Norridge) to develop major paradigm-shifting projects and the new Emerging Leaders Programme
will focus on mid-career staff. Ranasinha was selected for StellarHE, a programme to develop and
implement leadership strategies that reflect the unique challenges and experiences of BME staff in
HE. The innovation of rotating Deputy Head positions has enhanced leadership capacity and
succession planning. Our practices in appraisal and mentoring have developed as part of the Athena
SWAN process. All staff involved in recruitment, of staff and students alike, take the mandatory
Diversity Matters D&I course provided by the College, with a focus on unconscious bias.

Probation
We have redesigned the probation journey to offer more support and communication as staff travel
through the process. All new appointees have a mentor, who is not their line manager, who provides
guidance and support through regular meetings, aimed at identifying training needs, agreeing targets
for teaching and research and offering guidance for career development. Probationers start with an
objective setting meeting in their first month and then biannual meetings with a paper trail, but also
more informal regular meetings. Meetings with colleagues at the probationary stage are documented


Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
in a dossier, which is reviewed by the Head of Department. In addition, all staff have access to
Faculty training workshops and are required to attend sessions on PhD supervision.

Professional Development Review (PDR) and promotion
All academic and research staff benefit from an annual Professional Development Review with a
professorial reviewer, which feeds directly into mentorship, recognition pay and promotion
processes. This is a formal meeting with a senior colleague who has undergone PDR appraiser
training. It provides an opportunity to reflect on progress against the targets set in the past year,
future targets for research and impact (including funding applications), development needs and
possible promotion applications. The Faculty’s Academic Performance Framework (APF) maps out
promotion criteria and compares expectations for all academic grades. APF expectations are
adjusted where colleagues work part-time, have taken periods of parental leave, hold significant
caring responsibilities, have a disability, have taken a career break, have experienced a period of
sustained ill health or have been impacted by COVID-19. All who meet the APF criteria are
encouraged to apply. All staff going up for promotion have individual meetings with the Head of
Department and Vice-Dean for People and Planning (Languages and Literatures) and attend a
Faculty workshop. Evidence of the success of the process is the large number of internal promotions
in this cycle including 12 to Senior Lecturer, 6 to Reader and 5 to Professor. The Head of Department
examines the progress of each staff member every year to ensure equity of opportunity, especially
in relation to characteristics protected under the Equalities Act.

Staff development and support
At the centre of our strategy for research excellence is our allocation of 40% of every member of
staff’s time to research and through a dedicated weekly teaching-free ‘research day’. Staff on
externally funded projects are relieved of a portion of teaching and administrative duties depending
on the funding scheme and the portion of their time directly allocated to the project. The overall
Workload Allocation Model is designed to deliver equity across all career stages, taking into account
all teaching, administrative, supervisory and leadership roles: average female and male FTE
teaching loads are within one student contact hour of each other, as are those for professors and
non-professors.

As well as ensuring that research activity is explicitly factored into workloads, a vibrant and inclusive
research culture has been encouraged by:

   Maintaining a one-year-in-seven sabbatical system prioritising large grant applications and
    publishing projects, claimed through an application process and subject to post-sabbatical
    review.
   Granting staff access to a proportion of research overheads to meet additional research costs
    such as the employment of a research assistant.
   Investing in additional professional support services to reduce staff time spent in teaching and
    research-related administration, with digitisation of processes and policies via a fully live online
    staff handbook.
   Giving all teaching and research staff conference allowances of £1,000 annually to support
    travel and accommodation associated with professional networking activities and research
    dissemination.
   The College’s Parent’s and Carer’s Fund (PCF) has allowed academic or research staff (FT or
    fixed term) returning from parental leave to apply for up to £10,000 to fund a PT or FT member
    of staff to cover some of their duties. The Head of Department has actively encouraged
    applications to the PCF and English Department staff have received £52,015 of the £77,000
    awarded since 2013 (67.5%). On 31 July 2020, 20 staff had flexible working arrangements in
    place.
   At least six staff have benefited from Dragon reading software, ergonomic desks, seats and
    keyboards, live scribe pens or a digital scanner for transferring data to a voice reader. We have
    also employed research assistance to staff for archive and library visits. Staff with visual
    impairments have been equipped with 4K retina display screens.

Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


UOA27 operates a culture of care towards its members and keeps their wellbeing and career
progression under constant consideration. Departmental support is given to staff preparing
applications for flexible and remote working because of caring or parental responsibilities so that
they can maintain their research. Prior to return to work following parental leave, the staff member
meets with the Head of Department to discuss arrangements including workload, teaching duties,
flexible working options and paid Keeping in Touch days. The College has several support options
available to staff returning from parental leave, including the Parents and Carers Network open to
male and female staff. UOA27 was the first in the Faculty to introduce a transparent workload model
and the ‘considerate communications’ policy introduced in 2016 has had a very positive impact.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, wellbeing checks by the Head of Department and subject area
Leads were built into the timetable every week and staff with reduced childcare have had their
workloads reviewed and, in some cases, reduced.

UOA27 has been a trailblazer in bringing forward underrepresented or stigmatised groups:
Queer@King’s was an English Department initiative in 2003 and is now a Faculty-wide organisation
in which UOA27 still plays a leading role. Staff in UOA27 are now participating in Faculty and College
initiatives such as the BME staff-mentoring scheme and the Race Equality Network. UOA27 has
developed a pronoun policy, a First Generation network for staff and students and has brought staff
and students productively together on Decolonising the Curriculum.

Early career researchers (ECRs)
In order to maintain a healthy pipeline into academic careers, the support of ECR applications
(Leverhulme, BA, AHRC, Wellcome) is a deliberate UOA27 strategy. Despite the nationally low
success rates, UOA27 has been very successful in winning ECRs (eg Barnden, Bubb, Gallagher,
Lidster, Miller, Moore, Morley, Newland, Oliver, Roach, Rosenberg, Sierra, Sutaria, Tambling,
Vaccarrella). We work hard in developing ECR applications. We also encourage early career
colleagues to apply for AHRC leadership grants (Sugden and Norridge) and UKRI Future Leaders
Fellowships (Zimmermann). ECRs are fully integrated into UOA27 and mentored carefully to enable
them to make the next career step (eg ECRs on Wartime Shakespeare and Shakespeare in the
Royal Collections projects are receiving exemplary training in public engagement, research
development and project management). ECRs have also helped us to define future directions for
research and staffing policy: eg current Leverhulme Fellow in Environmental Humanities
(Rosenberg) and recent Marie Sklodowska-Curie Fellow in Critical Race Studies (Sutaria) have
helped to strengthen and to open up these areas in UOA27. We actively support applications to a
wide range of postdoctoral fellowship schemes and schemes aimed at permanent members of staff
who are ECRs. During this cycle, we have supported 11 postdoctoral fellows funded by the
Leverhulme Trust, the BA, UKRI, AHRC, the Mellon Trust, Marie Curie and the ERC. In line with the
Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, we have a dedicated ECR Lead,
who organises events for ECRs to meet and discuss their experience together, and every ECR is
assigned a mentor in their field. All ECRs, including Teaching Fellows and staff on AEP contracts,
are represented on the Arts and Humanities Early Career Committee (ECC), established in
September 2018, building on previous work by the Early Career Network. UOA27 is represented on
the ECC by an ECR Rep (currently a Post-Doc) and the ECR Lead. The Lead organises induction
and sessions on publishing monographs, writing grants and impact workshops, etc. ECR matters
are a standing item at Department Research Committee and are discussed at full Department
meetings. Unless they are still on probation, ECRs can apply for research leave on the same basis
as other colleagues and all ECRs can apply for Departmental funds to support research and impact
on the same terms as other staff.

Postgraduate research students (PGRs)
UOA27 is one of the largest scholarly research postgraduate communities nationally and
internationally and has a vibrant community of PGRs (113) currently with the new PhD in Creative
Writing (from 2019/20 – 9 currently). The PGR Lead oversees PGR progress and wellbeing, aided
by the PGR Admissions Tutor, the GTA Lead, PGR Professionalisation Lead and ECR Lead. A PGR

Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
committee ensures effective liaison between student representatives and staff and reports to the
Department meeting. The PGR Lead sits on the Faculty PGR committee (which includes student
representation) to ensure open avenues of communication. PGR reps (4 currently) run PGR fora,
coffee mornings and social events to gather feedback. Workspaces are available in the Virginia
Woolf Building and around the College, as well as two kitchen/common rooms.

REF4a shows REF2014 PhD awards to 45.5FTE, compared to 145FTE for REF2021. Average
enrolment since 2014 has been 20 students per annum and our new Creative Writing programme is
also attracting excellent students (with 35 applications for 2019/20). We are building PGR students
in our priority areas: critical race studies, health humanities, the digital/contemporary and creative
writing. We recruit high quality students from our own Postgraduate (PGT) cohort via information
evenings and our PGR Conference. Our cohort is diverse in age and background (home: 59; EU:
33; international: 27) and we attract international visiting PGR students, recently from China and
New York. Interruptions for maternity and for parental leave are fully supported for PGRs. Our
buildings are accessible; one of our PGRs with disabilities founded the College’s Disability and
Intersectionality Reading Group.

Indicators of PGR success
Since 2014, 31 graduates have progressed to lectureships, teaching fellowships and postdocs in the
UK (3 at KCL), Ireland, India, Japan, China, Greece, USA, Singapore, Mexico, Thailand, Saudi
Arabia, Holland and Sweden. Our graduates have also moved to careers in medicine, teaching,
theatre, the police and journalism. Two PGR students have been awarded the KCL Elsevier
Outstanding Thesis Award (one per Faculty per year) and two further students were nominated.
Recent graduates have monographs published or in press with Edinburgh University Press, OUP,
CUP, Bloomsbury, Palgrave, Manchester University Press and Cork University Press and have won
at least 10 essay and writing prizes.

PGR studentships
AHRC studentships via LAHP are the primary funding source and 29 students have been funded
since 2014/15 including Collaborative Doctoral Awards with Museum of London and Tate Gallery.
Other sources of funding include the Sir Rick Trainor Scholarship, the KCL/National University of
Singapore Scholarship, the ERC, the Wellcome Trust, the Commonwealth Scholarship and the
Governments of Australia, China, India and Chile. LAHP-funded students can apply for research
funds (recently for research trips to NYU and San Francisco), international placement schemes
(recently for the Smithsonian Institute (2) and the Huntingdon Library) and six-month extension
funding (for example to carry out a placement at the Live Art Development Agency). All students can
access Department funds of £150 per annum for conference expenses and can apply for Faculty
PGR Small Grants (£1,000 individual or £3,000 for group events). Our PGRs have received £50,604
in competitive Faculty funding.

Monitoring and support mechanisms for PGRs
The core of the PhD degree is the supervisor/supervisee relationship with meetings occurring every
fortnight in the first term and then at least once a month. Progress is monitored via an online platform,
which also records completion of PGR training. Supervisory training is mandatory and refreshed
every five years. Three staff have been awarded King’s Supervisory Excellence awards in this cycle.
All students have a second/co- or joint supervisor and for interdisciplinary projects from different
periods (for example, Birchall and Smith supervise PGR Montford on letters and surveillance). There
are many interdepartmental and inter-institutional supervisory arrangements in place, either with
other Faculty departments (Modern Languages and Film) or other partners of the LAHP consortium
(UCL, SAS and QMUL). UOA27 supports the development of its early career staff by introducing
them to PGR supervision as second supervisors and as members of PhD upgrade committees.




Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
PGR skills development and career preparation
PGRs are offered discipline-specific training at Department and Faculty level and, for more generic
skills, from the KCL Centre for Doctoral Studies (CDS) (eg public engagement, academic writing,
time management and life coaching). Further training is available through LAHP, including bespoke
advanced language courses via the KCL Modern Language Centre. In their first year, students attend
UOA27 Research Workshops (Thesis Workshops for Creative Writing PGRs), which run all year and
cover research methodologies and writing skills. Creative Writing students have Writing Life
seminars on aspects of the industry. In their second year, students can apply to teach as graduate
teaching assistants (GTAs). They attend three paid training events, including training on inclusive
pedagogy. Two are in the Department and one is a Faculty course, Preparing to Teach. They are
also supported to apply for the Higher Education Academy Fellowship. As GTAs, they meet regularly
with and are observed by their module convenor, attend GTA fora and have exit interviews with the
GTA Lead. Final-stage students have a series of professionalisation events (enhanced and
formalised in 2019) on topics such as postdoctoral funding, CVs, job interviews and publishing. PGR
students run the Skills Lunches: informal meetings with members of staff on key topics and
milestones. The Centre for Doctoral Studies hosts two Royal Literary Fund Fellows who are available
for one-to-one writing support and has a PGR-dedicated Careers Advisor.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research income
Since REF2014, our research income has quadrupled from £2 million to £8 million. This is the direct
result of the energetic research strategy outlined in Section 1 and reflects the excellence of UOA27’s
research. We have sought to foster intellectually ambitious, long-term, large-scale projects, both
individual and collaborative, especially encouraging applications that demonstrate the social,
historical and cultural value of our impacts, such as Das’ project on colonial soldiers in World War
One, Norridge’s on the Rwandan genocide, Feigel’s on Europe, Saunders’ on Ego-Media and
McMullan’s on Shakespeare. Three other large ERC project bids were unsuccessful in this cycle
(Turner, Read and Feigel) but will be redeveloped into future bids. We remain committed to period-
based work and staff have been successful in winning external funding for individual research
projects; 13 staff received Fellowships from the Leverhulme Trust in this cycle.

Figure 1 shows our income by year:




Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The high value of the years 2014–17 reflects our ERC success towards the end of the previous
cycle. We received income of £8.07m over the seven years, equivalent to £1.15m annually, as
compared with £443,000 in the last cycle. This is proof of the sustainability and vitality of our strategy
for external research funding.

Figure 2 sets out funding applications by year:




We have made 101 applications for £22 million in grants. On average, numbers of applications per
FTE since 2018 exceed 1.2 per annum and have an average value of £376,000. Staff are more
active in terms of grant acquisition and the average grant application is larger than it was in REF2014,
with total application value currently around £3 million per year. More than one in five of our
applications resulted in an award across the REF period.

Research infrastructure
We have robust structures in place to support and monitor research activity at all levels. UOA27’s
research infrastructure is overseen by the Departmental Research Committee (DRC), chaired by the
Research Lead. The DRC meets six times a year on research and impact implementation,
development and sustainability, as well as to monitor the work of the clusters and to discuss ECR
support. Regular presentations from external representatives relate to specific grant opportunities,
media and communications, open access compliance and diversity & equalities issues. We have an
Impact Lead, Grants Lead and Early Career Representative, all of whom sit on the DRC. Cluster
Leads also report to this committee. Professional Services has a full-time dedicated research
manager, who works closely with the Head of Department and Research, Impact and PGR Leads.
The Chair of the DRC sits on the Faculty Research Committee.

Infrastructure for research funding
The DRC manages research funding at UOA level as follows:

   Offers seed money for research and impact projects. In addition to the annual £1,000 research
    allowances for all staff, two annual competitions allocate funding, with priority to ECRs. Since
    REF2014, the Committee has awarded more than £70,000.
   Gives a direct grant of £6,000 annually to the research clusters.



Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Funds teaching buyouts and support for colleagues making large grant bids. In 2019–20, over
    £3,000 was allocated.
   Facilitates interdisciplinarity, for example developing partnerships with non-HEIs via the AHRI
    and King’s Culture to leverage funding.

Faculty and College Research Funding Support is as follows:

   Funding competitions open to staff and PGRs, such as innovative research methods and the
    Research Assistant scheme for building a funding bid (Hurwitz, Feigel, Turner and McMullan).
    Birchall’s Radical Transparency was Faculty seed-funded and has resulted in an AHRC grant.
    Overall, staff have received £113,376 from Faculty grant schemes.
   Faculty Postdoctoral Research Projects Fellowship scheme, allowing a postdoctoral researcher
    to work with a PI on a grant application. Seven UOA27 staff have benefitted from this, applying
    for grants valued at £4 million.
   The Faculty Research Development Manager supports the submission of funding applications.
    Since January 2018, all departments in the Faculty have also had the support of a Research
    Support Co-ordinator for pre-award costings advice and a Post-Award Processing Bureau to
    support PIs with financial management.
   The Arts and Humanities Peer-review College is available to scrutinise grant applications before
    submission.
   Faculty incentivisation of research grant bids: 10% of earned overheads is awarded as additional
    research allowance to the PI. Externally funded leave of up to one year counts towards
    sabbatical entitlement.
   King’s Digital Lab provides dedicated specialist support for complex digital components.
   The cross-Faculty King’s Together scheme offers funding to seed major bids. Over the census
    period, UOA27 staff have been awarded a total of £205,870.06.
   The new Worktribe system streamlines grant management and costing; the Research
    Management Helpdesk is a new one-stop shop; and a Research Data Analysis Team will
    facilitate the reporting of research results.

Research facilities and services
UOA27 is now housed in the purpose-designed and recently renovated Virginia Woolf Building near
the Aldwych. Large research spaces are dedicated to PGR students and are very well used. In
recognition of the precarity and expense of London accommodation, UOA27 prioritises ECRs for
individual offices so they have a quiet place to research and write and the building is accessible and
secure for staff (in non-COVID times) 24 hours a day. The wider KCL campuses (Strand and
Waterloo) offer ample and accessible event space in central London and UOA27 attracts and hosts
impressive international conferences and events (see Section 4).

Libraries and archives
UOA27 is supported by KCL Library Services, which curates and disseminates publications and
research data in line with funder/REF policies. The Rare Books Librarians in the Maughan Library
and archivists work with UOA27 staff on research projects, curation of exhibitions and research-led
teaching and colleagues have used the 20th-century literary archive, the Foreign and Commonwealth
Office Historical Collection and the Liddell Hart Centre for Military Archives for research. In addition
to KCL’s range of libraries, all staff and students also have access to the facilities of Senate House
Libraries and benefit from the proximity of national resources such as the British Library and the
Wellcome Collection. The London Library, the V&A Art Library and many specialist libraries, such as
Dr Williams’ Library, The Guildhall Library and the British Museum Print Room, are also used
regularly as research resources by UOA27.

Arts and Humanities Research Institute (AHRI)
As discussed in Section 1, UOA27 has worked increasingly closely with the Arts and Humanities
Research Institute. The AHRI offers mentorship, seed funding (£15,000 competitively per annum), a

Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
dedicated interdisciplinary event space (the REACH space) and total support of £43,000 per annum
for cross-humanities work. A new KCL strategy will make the AHRI more central to grant bids and
UOA27 will be able to share its valuable expertise while developing ambitious multi-disciplinary
projects with the AHRI.

King’s Digital Lab and digital resources
Our achievements would not be possible without the high-quality infrastructure provided by King’s
Digital Lab (KDL), which has received extensive infrastructural investment during the REF period,
from both Faculty (£2,386,156) and the College (£237,000), enabling it to become a self-sustaining
unit providing both technological and human infrastructure for collaborative digital projects across
the Faculty, College and externally. KDL provides UOA27 with expertise in Research Software
Engineering to increase digital research capability, working with researchers and partners to produce
digital tools (repositories, archives, visualisations, maps and mobile applications) and immersive
experiences. KDL takes a leading role in ensuring the sustainability of digital outputs and resources
produced by researchers in UOA27. During this REF cycle (approximate data available for 2015–
20), KDL has collaborated with UOA27 members in £5,844,190 worth of grant applications and
hosted seven projects, using world-leading approaches to archiving and sustainability.

A community of care
While it may not be technically ‘infrastructural’, we believe that community is key to a successful
research culture. The relationship between Professional Services and academic staff is unusually
strong in UOA27 and we believe it is critical for the sustainability and wellbeing of our institution that
we nurture a strong sense of shared community and shared values. We see ourselves as a very
socially functional UOA that supports research through a culture of mutual respect. UOA27 has a
critical mass of researchers at each career stage, from PGRs to Emeritus/a Professors, and they
regularly mix at research and social events. The Department also has sufficient resource to host
visiting scholars on a short-term basis (in this period we have welcomed scholars from Korea, Japan
and the US) and we always ask Visitors to present their research to UOA27 and participate fully in
appropriate seminar series and reading groups.

Infrastructure within and across London
We see London itself as an infrastructural tool for research. UOA27 sits in the centre of London’s
West End, with unparalleled opportunities for cultural, community and intellectual engagement. We
consider it vital to a healthy research culture that we connect all our staff and research students into
what is one of the world’s most vibrant cities, using the resources and opportunities of the capital.
UOA27 has established strong links with a very wide range of cultural and community institutions in
London and the UK, both large national institutions (National Portrait Gallery, V&A, Science Museum
London, Natural History Museum and Tate London) and smaller London institutions (including the
Museum of London, Brunei Gallery, John Soane’s Museum, Keats’ House Hampstead, the Courtauld
Gallery, The Hunterian, the Freud Museum, Guildhall Art Gallery, Geffrye Museum Hackney,
Museum of Freemasonry, Paul Mellon Centre, the Sainsbury Centre and many others). We also
work with community organisations such as Citizens UK, McPin and the Peabody Trust. By working
in more structured ways with these institutions in the future, we will put into practice our new impact
strategy for creating innovative pathways for the effective sharing of knowledge with diverse
communities. The newly appointed Faculty Research Grants Lead has worked at The National
Archives and will be particularly well-placed to help build sustainable relationships with cultural
institutions.

The ecology of humanities research is growing ever more dynamic and mixed and UOA27 is
excellently placed to meet this diversity. We will be looking to partner on a more formal basis with
other KCL departments, eg sharing an Environmental and Health agenda with Geography and the
School of Population Health and Environmental Sciences, and Life Sciences at KCL, and with the
MRC Centre for Environment and Health, KCL hospitals, ageing and caring charities and community
organisations during the next assessment period.

Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


As noted above, the LAHP funds PGRs and offers generous training resources (such as free
language training), grants and events to PGRs even if they are not funded by LAHP. LAHP also
offers grants to supervisors for innovative training events. From LAHP’s launch in 2013 until 2018,
LAHP’s overall Director was from UOA27 (Lees and Pettitt) and KCL and UOA27 is therefore well
networked into the new consortium partnership (KCL, UCL, SAS, QMUL, LSE, Royal Central School
of Speech and Drama, Royal Academy of Music and Royal College of Art). This extended
partnership with its cultural partners (Museum of London, V&A, The National Archives and the
Metropolitan Police) offers impressive infrastructural reach across London. The LAHP consortium
will also facilitate more co-supervision projects across institutions, joining up the research
infrastructures of its member institutions and opening up exciting new collaborative possibilities.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Excellence, diversity and inclusion in research
Hand in hand with our research goals is the broader contribution that we want to make to academia,
to society and to the public conversation. lssues of diversity, equality and social justice feature
prominently in UOA27’s research agenda in relation to gender and sexuality (the work of Salih,
Turner, DeAth and Clara Jones), race (the work of Gilroy, De Bruijn, Norridge, Ranasinha and
Snaith), illness, disability and ageing (the work of Hurwitz, Vickers and Zimmermann) and religion
(the work of Murray and Zim). UOA27’s long association with the Queer@King’s Research Centre
has put it at the forefront of LGBTQ+ research (the work of Turner, Matzner, Roberts, Shalson, Ward,
Elliott and Salih).

As a celebration both of a distinguished alumna and of our commitment to diversity, in June 2018
we held a conference based around the work of the Caribbean intellectual and poet, Sylvia Wynter
(led by Elliott and Franklin). We conferred an honorary fellowship on Wynter and have instituted an
annual lecture in her name. PGR Makoha has founded a writing retreat for BME poets and, with
strong financial and intellectual backing from UOA27, PGRs have also launched the Disability and
Intersectionality Reading Group, which virtually hosted its first international Criposium in June 2020.
Thinking in Crisis Times was UOA27’s rapid response to COVID-19, bringing together non-academic
and academic staff, students at all levels and artists in residence (eg Haida artist Raymond Boisjoly
from Vancouver) in a collective research initiative, which has put Critical Race Studies, Medical
Humanities and Environmental Humanities into an urgent conversation and will be developed into a
publicly accessible research output through our blog and podcasts.

Collaborative and interdisciplinary research
Substantive and sustained commitment to outward-looking research is apparent in the c50
interdisciplinary partnerships and shared projects in UOA27, described below.

AHRI-supported impact: The Director of the AHRI for most of the cycle was Saunders and five of
the centres are run by members of UOA27: Modern Literature and Culture (CMLC co-directed by
Feigel), Enlightenment Studies (co-directed by Boyson), Late Antique and Medieval Studies (co-
directed by Salih and Warner), Life Writing Research (CLWR co-directed by Brant and Saunders),
London Shakespeare Centre (LSC directed by McMullan), Queer@King’s (directed by Matzner) and
Humanities and Health (CHH co-directed by Hurwitz and Vickers). Through the AHRI, UOA27
curated five important exhibitions at KCL’s Somerset House during this cycle: Derek Jarman:
Pandemonium (2014) (Turner); Rwanda in Photographs: Death Then, Life Now (2014) (Norridge);
Dear Diary: A Celebration of Diaries and their Digital Descendants (2016) (Brant); Melancholia: A
Sebald Variation (2017) (Feigel); and By Me William Shakespeare: A Life in Writing (McMullan). The
last was part of the LSC-run impactful Shakespeare400 project. The Shakespeare: Print and
Performance MOOC, designed by FutureLearn with KCL (Lewis), the BL and the Globe, has run
three times, reaching 22,480 people across 120 countries.



Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Large interdisciplinary projects: Beyond the ERC projects mentioned in Section 1, other
substantial projects reach out beyond the discipline, including Hurwitz’s Wellcome Trust-funded
Boundaries of Illness and Pettitt’s AHRC Scrambled Messages: The Telegraphic Imaginary with UCL
and Courtauld. LSC’s Shakespeare400 project led a consortium of 25 London cultural organisations.
McMullan runs the AHRC project Shakespeare in the Royal Collections with Royal Collection Trust
and Shakespeare’s Globe. Massai is PI for the Leverhulme-funded Wartime Shakespeare project
with colleagues in War Studies. Birchall leads a new AHRC-funded project on COVID-19 and
conspiracy theories.

UK collaborations: Significant and numerous UK-based research initiatives include AHRC projects
(Thain, Birchall and Munro); research networks (Norridge, Das and Turner); innovative work with
schools (Lees and Kears; Howe, Munro and Crawforth); work with contemporary writers and artists
(Kears, Gotman and Padel); the Royal Opera House (Turner); British Museum (Lees); on health and
nursing (Snaith); and community engagement (DeAth and Birchall).

International collaborations: We work productively with city-based universities in Paris and Berlin.
Humboldt University Berlin was a partner on Feigel’s ERC-funded project Beyond Enemy Lines;
Snaith took a lead role in the KCL/Humboldt Interwar Years network; Pettitt is a Humboldt Mercator
Fellow and UK Partner on a Graduate College; and the early modernists are developing a network
with the Sorbonne and Freie Universität Berlin. Turner and Pettitt ran workshops with Paris 7/FabLab
and new alliances are forming with the University of Paris through a Medical Humanities
collaboration, La Personne en médecine, which has held 8 major research events with the Paris
group. We also work with colleagues in the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden and Ireland. Projects in
this cycle have run with UNC, CUNY, the University of British Columbia and cultural sector
collaborators in Canada.

Impact beyond impact case studies: UOA27’s five Impact Case Studies express only part of the
impact of our research, which reaches a wide and diverse range of research users and audiences.
The different publics reached by UOA27 include:

   Schoolchildren. UOA27 has supported significant schools/widening participation work by
    modernist Clara Jones and by the early modern team (including an annual Shakespeare
    Teachers’ Workshop). Crawforth’s Shakespeare Academy has reached approximately 300 state
    school pupils per year.
   Local communities. This includes Legg’s Arts Council-funded Not A Split Second:
    Remembering the Docklands Bomb, a collaboration with artist Lucy Harrison and the Docklands
    Victims Association, and the Anti-Social Reproduction community engagement event created
    by De’Ath and Shane Boyle (QMUL). Additionally, De’Ath organised a book launch for a
    collection of work by contemporary black British poets and Birchall has given free public talks at
    the Design Museum London, the Photographers Gallery London and at Chatham House on a
    panel called Does Fake News Matter?
   Medical practitioners. The work of Hurwitz and Vickers for CHH has engaged with substantive
    audiences both of medical practitioners and of the general public.
   Exhibition-goers. Buckland co-curated Charles Dickens: Man of Science at the Charles
    Dickens Museum; Pettitt was advisor to the Museum of London for their Charles Dickens (2013)
    and Sherlock Holmes (2014) exhibitions and for The Life and Afterlife of David Livingstone
    exhibition at Brunei Gallery, SOAS (2014). Grande was on the committee for Keats–Shelley
    200.
   Art lovers. This includes Saunders’ work for the Alfred Cohen Centenary (collaboration with the
    Ben Uri Gallery and Museum, the Courtauld Gallery, Paul Mellon Centre, the Sainsbury Centre,
    the CLWR and the Alfred Cohen Art Foundation); Kears and Davies’ Colm Cille’s Spiral project
    with Difference Exchange; and Boyson’s collaboration with artist Caroline Wendling and
    perfume maker Mohammed Jamal.
   Former psychiatric patients. Vickers’ workshop Shared Life and Psychosis involved former
    psychiatric patients, their families and psychiatrists.
   Dancers and dance fans. Gotman’s involvement with Dance of Urgency (MuseumQuartier,
    Vienna), her sustained collaboration with filmmakers, artists and dancers, her conversations

Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    with Ballet Rambert about dancer training and her talks on dance and politics have sustained
    impact on this group of beneficiaries. She was also advisor for a major dance exhibition at the
    Museu de Arte de Sao Paolo and for The Place. Kabir has been involved in many public-facing
    activities across the global Afro-diasporic music and dance industries.
   Music makers and music lovers. Padel collaborated with Syrian artist Issam Kournbaj and
    with the City of London Sinfonia for creativity based on Rimsky-Korsakov’s Scheherazade
    (Royal Festival Hall). Scott-Baumann and Crawforth ran a KCL-funded workshop series, Sonnet
    Structures, with architects, barristers and singers.
   Poetry lovers. Padel runs a free public series of poetry readings, Poetry And… ; Howe took a
    lead role in Ledbury Emerging Poetry Critics, raising public awareness of questions of race,
    representation and decolonisation in contemporary poetry.

Academic leadership, service and membership of professional bodies
UOA27 is active in policy-shaping for the sector as a whole. Lees, then Pettitt, served as Directors
of LAHP and Pettitt led the successful c£50 million bid to the Higher Education Funding Council for
England (HEFCE) for the renewal of the AHRC Doctoral Consortium Grant for LAHP, with an
expanded range of partners (see Section 3).

Members of UOA27 have served on the AHRC Peer Review College, Global Challenges and Early
Career Leadership panels, on the GCRF Strategic Advisory Group, ERC advisory boards and as
reviewers for the BA, ESRC, Leverhulme Trust, US-UK Fulbright Awards and Wellcome Trust.
Colleagues have reviewed for national funding councils in Taiwan, the Czech Republic, Germany,
Ireland, Israel, the Netherlands, Finland, Poland, Canada and Switzerland, and for the ERC,
Guggenheim Foundation and Rockefeller Institute. Gilroy and Wright are Fellows of the British
Academy; Kirkland, McMullan, Massai and Saunders are Fellows of the English Association; and
Feigel, Gilroy, Gordon, Howe and Padel are Fellows of the Royal Society of Literature. Karim-Cooper
is consultant for Diversity, Inclusion and Racial Justice in Higher Education for the BA, Vice-
President of the Shakespeare Association of America and a Trustee of the Shakespeare Association
of America and of the British Association for American Studies. Grande is a trustee of the Keats–
Shelley Memorial Association. Members of UOA27 are fellows of more than 20 professional and
learned associations.

Visiting fellowships and professorships
Members of the Department have been invited as Visiting Professors to the Universities of Hong
Kong, Mainz, Melbourne, Pittsburgh, Queensland and Toronto, at the Humboldt University Berlin, at
the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität Munich, the Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity, the Bellagio
Centre, University of Sydney, Haverford College, St Anne’s College, Oxford and UCL. Gotman has
been a Hölderlin Guest Professor at Goethe-Universität Frankfurt, Visiting Professor at the School
of the Art Institute of Chicago and Visiting Scholar at Cornell University. Feigel runs the Ivan Juritz
Prize for CMLC. Wright chaired the jury of the BA’s Nayef Al-Rodhan Prize for Global Cultural
Understanding. Day and Padel have been Man Booker Prize judges and Day, Gordon, Howe and
Padel have judged many other prestigious literary prizes.

Journal editorship and peer review
Colleagues serve as editors, co-editors, consultant editors or reviews editors for Cambridge
Quarterly, Comparative Literature and Culture, Culture Machine, European Journal of Life Writing,
Keats–Shelley Review, Literature and History, Media History, Performance Research, Prac Crit
Studies in the Age of Chaucer and Women: A Cultural Review and sit on the boards of at least 25
more. Members of the Department undertake peer review work for more than 20 academic book
presses and assess articles for over 30 periodicals.




Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
General editorial roles
Pettitt and Massai are General Editors of Cambridge University Press series: Massai of the
Cambridge Shakespeare Editions (CSE) and Pettitt of the Nineteenth-Century Literature and Culture
monograph series. The CUP series Nineteenth Century Literature in Transition is co-edited by Thain;
Brant edits Palgrave Studies in Life Writing; McMullan, Massai, Munro and Karim-Cooper co-edit
Arden Shakespeare Intersections; and Karim-Cooper is General Editor of the Shakespeare in the
Theatre series and the Shakespeare Critical Intersections series. McMullan is a General Editor of
Arden Early Modern Drama and a General Textual Editor of The Norton Shakespeare, 3rd edition.
Saunders is a General Editor of OUP’s Ford Madox Ford edition and on the editorial board for OUP's
Complete Writings of Evelyn Waugh; Smith is a General Editor of Donne’s Letters (OUP).

Advisory roles
Members of UOA27 are involved in numerous advisory roles and bodies including, for example
Demos, the Norsk Teknisk Museum in Oslo, the Consortium of Humanities Centers and Institutes,
the University of North Carolina, the Volkswagen Foundation, the Society of Renaissance Studies,
the English Association, Tate Britain, the BBC, The Warburg Institute, RaceB4Race, Arizona State
University, the National Portrait Gallery, the British Library, Senate House Library, the Museum of
London, the ‘Decolonizing Feminism’ Global Challenges Research Fund, the Battersea Arts Centre
Capital Group, the Live Art Development Agency Publishing Committee and Tate St Ives.

Examining and assessing
Colleagues have examined more than 130 doctoral theses for both UK and overseas universities
(eg Delhi, Sydney, Paris, Singapore, etc), covering a vast range of interdisciplinary activity. In
addition to their roles on internal appointment and promotion panels, members of the Department
have externally assessed MA courses and sat on external promotion panels at more than 20 UK and
more than 30 global universities from Harvard to Hong Kong.

Event organisation
Conferences: Members of UOA27 have convened and organised the World Shakespeare
Congress; Early Modern Jarman; A Narrative Future for Healthcare; Politics, Citizenship, Style:
Interwar Women’s Writing; Family Politics in Early Modern England, the International Melville Society
annual conference; Coding and Representation in the 19th century; Troublesome Modernism;
Parkinson of the Disease; On Difficulty in Early Modern Literature; Hebrew Melodies: Music and the
Bible in Nineteenth-Century Europe; KCL/University of Michigan critical theory summer workshop; a
CMLC conference; and several CLWR conferences. In addition, members of UOA27 have organised
or co-organised large conferences in, among other places, the Romanian Cultural Institute London,
Washington DC, LA, New York, Berlin, Venice and Oxford.

Seminars and workshops: Colleagues organise and run six of the Institute of English Studies
London-wide research seminars. Grande co-convened (with Flora Willson from KCL Music) the
Shows of London seminar at KCL. Members of the Department have given numerous other invited
talks, lectures, performances, keynotes, gallery talks and poetry readings at a wide range of cultural
venues from the Geological Society of London to the Max Planck Institute for the History of Science
in Berlin, at more than 20 festivals from Edinburgh to Valparaiso, at more than 40 UK universities
from Keele to Cambridge and at over 60 overseas universities from the Sorbonne to Singapore.

Media visibility
The work of UOA27 is highly visible and frequently reported in the media, while members of UOA27
also create media outputs:
 Literary journalism: Gordon, Munro, Pettitt and Scott-Baumann are regular reviewers for TLS
    and Pettitt has recorded several TLS podcasts; Day is a lead book reviewer for the Financial
    Times, a regular writer for New York Review of Books, Book Forum, Telegraph and Apollo. Day
    and Gordon are both regular reviewers for the London Review of Books. Colleagues write

Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    regularly for The Guardian. Emrys Jones is creator and host of the Pop Enlightenments podcast
    (15 episodes published to Soundcloud and iTunes).
   Newspaper features: Day’s Cyclogeography and Homing were extracted in The Guardian.
    Gordon’s Angela Carter biography was one of the ‘best books of the year’ in The Guardian,
    Financial Times, New York Times, Sunday Times and Daily Telegraph. Gordon was script
    consultant for the BBC2 documentary Angela Carter: Of Wolves and Women.
   BBC Radio 4: Norridge made the documentary Rwanda’s Returnees (shortlisted for an
    Association for International Broadcasting award) and (for BBC Radio 3) Living with Memory in
    Rwanda (Gold New York Radio Festival Award). Wright made two series of The English Fix and
    Grande contributed to an episode. Majeed appeared in the Indian Incarnations series. Poems
    by Howe were the focus of Conversations on a Bench: Chinatown; Gordon was interviewed on
    Women's Hour on his Angela Carter biography; Day’s book, Homing was on A Good Read; Day
    contributed to Natural Histories and appeared on Saturday Live; Buckland was interviewed by
    Inside Science and the Today programme and Birchall for The History of Secrecy. Boyson
    contributed to Pursuit of Beauty; Warner, McMullan and Massai have appeared on In Our Time;
    Snaith interviewed for The Noisy Page and Thain on Public Indecency: Queer Art in Britain.
    Massai appeared on The Secret Life of Books and on BBC Radio 3’s Free Thinking.
   Television: Kabir appeared on an episode of the BBC’s Novels that Shaped the World and
    Pettitt was a consultant to the series. Karim-Cooper was script consultant to CBBC’s Horrible
    Histories and to Shakespeare Uncovered for PBS and Sky Arts and advisor on
    theatrical/masque effects for BBC series Wolf Hall. McMullan spoke about Shakespeare400 on
    BBC London, ITV London, London Live and Sky News; Massai on GR1 (RAI – Italy).
   Journalism: Colleagues write for The Guardian; openDemocracy, The European, Tank
    Magazine, Open! and Photoworks. Day is pigeon-racing correspondent for TalkSport.
   The Conversation: Birchall co-produced and contributed to a six-part podcast series, Expert
    Guide to Conspiracy Theories, for The Conversation; Pettitt wrote a piece on Emily Bronte’s
    anniversary.
   Colleagues interviewed: ABC Radio 1; RTE Radio 1; London Live; Observer; The Guardian;
    New Scientist; BBC London; France 3 Grand Est; BBC Persian Service; Newstalk, Ireland;
    History Today podcast; The Telegraph, The Times, Financial Times, Sunday Express, The
    Independent; THES; South China Morning Post; The Week (India); and BBC Radio Wales.
   Reviews of non-academic outputs: UOA27 exhibitions and impact events reviewed by BBC
    Radio Oxford; the Big Issue; The Guardian; Apollo; Brant’s Dear Diary exhibition was featured
    on BBC Radio 2’s Jonathan Ross Show; Kabir’s cultural platform, Le thinnai Kreyol, was covered
    in the Hindustan Times, Indian Express and Times of India; Majeed was cited in The Hindu.

Numerous Awards and Prizes mark recognition of our contributions to the field. The most prominent
of these is Gilroy’s Holberg Prize in 2019. Colleagues won more than 20 important prizes for their
work in this cycle, all attesting to significant levels of recognition for academic and creative
achievement, as do 13 honourable mentions. Massai received OMRI (Order of Merit Officer of the
Italian Republic), the equivalent of a UK OBE, and Wright was awarded an Honorary degree by the
University of Kent.




Page 19
