Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Loughborough University

 Unit of Assessment: D32 Art and Design: Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Introduction

 Loughborough University’s art and design research environment was recognised as 90% 4* in
 REF2014. It has since strengthened significantly through strategic reorganisation, the addition of
 the Institute for Design Innovation on our new London campus, substantial PGR growth, an
 expanded Professoriate and investment in facilities. During the assessment period we
 consistently rose in the QS International Rankings for art and design rising from 40th in 2015 to
 24th in 2020.

 1.1 Research Structure

 This submission spans three Schools:
 • All staff in the School of Design and Creative Arts (SDCA 73.7FTE) covering art, design
     and human factors.
 • The Art History and Visual Culture group (AHVC 6.8FTE), School of Social Sciences and
     Humanities (SSSH)
 • The Institute for Design Innovation (IDI 5.0FTE), Loughborough University London (LUL).

 The structure underpinning our research environment has been enhanced in three significant
 ways since 2014:
 1. Established the Institute for Design Innovation on our new London campus (2015), which is
    the University’s biggest single strategic investment since University designation in 1966.
 2. Strengthening Humanities through formation of the School of Social Sciences & Humanities
    (2019).
 3. Formation of the School of Design and Creative Arts (2019) uniting the former Design School
    and School of the Arts.

 Associate Deans for Research and Enterprise are responsible for Research (ADR) and Impact
 and Knowledge Exchange (ADE) in each School, developing Action Plans that respond to
 quarterly performance data (via University Research Committee) and annual Research Quality
 Enhancement reviews. The SDCA Research and Enterprise (R&E) Committee is chaired by
 ADR / ADE on an alternating basis, with representation from AHVC and IDI invited into strategic
 discussions. It is responsible for the development and implementation of a co-ordinated and
 ambitious research and impact strategy, benefiting from our external Advisory Board of leaders
 from academia, industry, professional bodies and cultural institutions.

 Our research develops effective outcomes that add value to individuals, organisations and
 society. This is achieved by taking a responsible view of art and design in light of aesthetic,
 technological and organisational possibilities, environmental challenges, societal changes and
 the diversity of our cultural heritage.

 Research strengths are organised as formal Centres of Excellence and School research
 groups / institutes, with most staff contributing to more than one group.

 Our Transport Safety Research Centre (Morris and Thomas lead) builds on decades of
 successful research in road and vehicle safety informing the development of new policies,
 standards and the design of vehicles and roads. Research is undertaken through international
 consortium projects with partners from academia, government and industry.

 Our Environmental Ergonomics Research Centre (Havenith leads) is renowned for research
 in thermal comfort and performance, complex socio-technical systems, digital human modelling

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and healthcare safety. Rigorous experimental research informs the design of garments, vehicles,
 medical devices, assistive technology and buildings. Research is typically undertaken with
 sportswear manufacturers, healthcare providers, the construction industry, transport providers
 and vehicle manufacturers.

 The Responsible Design research group (Bhamra and Dong lead) combines and builds on our
 research excellence in sustainable and inclusive design, developing theory and practice through
 environmentally sensitive and people-centred approaches to improve environmental
 performance, sustainable wellbeing and quality of life for all.

 The Digital Design and Fabrication Lab (Bibb and Campbell lead) investigates design practice
 enabled by digital technologies whilst exploring cultural and economic impact in areas including
 computer-aided design, 3D Printing, medical devices, 3D Printed electronics, design for Additive
 Manufacturing and smart textiles.

 Our expertise in experience design comes together in the Design for Future Living Lab (Cain
 and Haines lead). This combines our extensive expertise in user-centred, graphic, service and
 experience design, social sciences and human factors through rigorous and creative
 methodologies to explore new and emerging technologies and address societal challenges.

 The Institute for Design Innovation (Koria leads) examines the role of design and promotes
 the diverse contributions that designers can make as cultural intermediaries, transformational
 leaders, activists and critical thinkers in design management and value creation.

 In Graphic Design (Harland leads), we pioneer research that responds to national concerns
 revealed by REF2014, providing a new direction for future research and shaping debates in
 areas such as Urban Heritage. Textile Design (Heinzel leads) research explores practice and
 technology including areas such as laser colouration, enzymes and technical weaving. Our
 research in Fine Art (Lindley and Richardson lead) encompasses practice-led research in
 drawing, painting and notable strengths in heritage and sculpture. The Animation Academy
 (Wells leads) creates innovative work in the interdisciplinary space between graphic design,
 illustration, fine art and visual practices in production and exhibition contexts.

 The Art History and Visual Culture research group (Robinson and Meskimmon lead) delivers
 intersectional feminist research that addresses urgent social, political, cultural and pedagogical
 dilemmas confronting contemporary societies through intersectional feminisms, museology,
 fashion theory, transnationalism and art historiography.

 Interdisciplinary Research
 We have transitioned from multidisciplinary cooperation to cohesive interdisciplinary research
 that exploits our critical mass, complementary expertise and shared resources. In the
 assessment period, we graduated 41 interdisciplinary PhDs spanning 12 Departments/Schools.
 We established criteria and procedures for the formation of interdisciplinary research Labs. Two
 have been formed with more in development:
 • Design for Future Living Lab adds social sciences, geography, business and economics to
     complement expertise in all areas of design and human factors.
 • Digital Design and Fabrication Lab has expanded from its roots in product design and
     engineering to encompass sculpture, jewellery, heritage, archaeology, materials, biology,
     chemistry. It includes members from four Schools and coordinates the University’s Additive
     Manufacturing Network.

 We are fully engaged in the Global Challenges and interdisciplinary Beacons (see CALIBRE
 framework REF5A). Our design, human factors and safety research is engaged in all four Global
 Challenges, Energy, Changing Environments & Infrastructure, Secure & Resilient
 Societies and Health & Wellbeing, and three of the five Beacons, High Value Manufacturing,
 Built Environment and Transport Technologies. Arts research is integral to the
 Communication & Culture Beacon.

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2 Review of objectives and plans since REF 2014

 Our 2014 aims were to (i) strengthen interdisciplinary research capacity and capability; (ii)
 enhance quality (iii) improve international reach and influence, aligning with University strategic
 aims Raising standards and aspirations and Growing capacity and influence.

 (i) Strengthen interdisciplinary research capacity and capability
 There has been a 58% increase in research active staff submitted to REF2021, compared to
 REF2014, reflecting strategic investment in capacity. We made four appointments in Additive
 Manufacturing, expanding further into design for Additive Manufacturing, scientific and medical
 applications. The Institute for Design Innovation was established to address social, enterprise
 and innovation needs. We contributed to the successful AHRC Doctoral Training Centre “Design
 Star” with 11 of the 63 PhD students registered at Loughborough, contributing to our rise in
 Doctoral enrolments and a 68% increase in completions compared to REF2014. In 2019 we
 became a partner in the TECHNE AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership.

 (ii) Enhance quality
 Whilst we have aimed to maintain high standards in our world-leading research environment
 (90% 4*) and excellent impact (67% 4*) in REF2014, we have also aimed to raise the quality of
 Unit outputs. We therefore implemented researcher training in visibility and open access
 publishing, developed journal selection guidance, facilitated international co-authoring,
 developed self-assessment guidance and introduced mentoring and internal peer review of
 outputs. Comparing Scopus data 2014-19 to 2008-13, the number of outputs increased from 647
 to 938, and the outputs in the top 10% Journal Percentiles by SNIP increased from 10% to 26%.

 (iii) Improve international reach and influence
 Our most significant recent appointment is Professor Cees de Bont as Dean (2018), previously
 Dean of the Faculty of Industrial Design Engineering at TU Delft and School of Design at Hong
 Kong Polytechnic University. Leveraging his international network and reputation, our Directors
 of Internationalisation have established new international partnerships and exchanges. For
 example, in 2019 we established the International Research Centre to study the impacts of
 ‘Connected and Autonomous Vehicles on Vulnerable Road Users’ with Queensland University of
 Technology and Tongji University.

 The University’s Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS) led by AHVC member Professor
 Meskimmon has helped us develop international reach and influence by supporting IAS Visiting
 Fellows and themed events such as our 2019 Experience Design Thought Leadership
 Summit. Our research also contributed to widening engagement and visibility through IAS
 themes, such as Geometry and Sound. Overall, we hosted 61 international visiting academics
 including two Fulbright Scholars. International co-authorship of papers has risen to 33% for
 2014-19 from 20% for 2008-13.

 1.3 Enabling and Facilitating the Achievement of Impact

 We build long-term strategic partnerships with research users including charities,
 governments, public bodies, healthcare providers and industry. We work from the outset with
 research users in the setting of research questions and project proposals and build impact
 into research plans. For example, since 2014:
 • Our long-standing partnership with Transport for London (TfL) has yielded projects
     influencing EU standards, policy and legislation.
 • Research partners donated equipment and provided access to world-leading facilities. A
     world-leading sports brand provided access to their research labs, including their textile lab
     for characterising materials and use of their thermal foot manikin for 6 months and Nissan
     donated car components including dashboards, steering wheels and seats.

 We combine adaptable agreements with a flexible approach to sharing outputs and
 intellectual property. Methods include student projects, short term consultancy, industry

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 secondments, sponsored PhDs, contract research, partnering on funding applications and
 knowledge exchange funded by Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF), EPSRC Impact
 Acceleration Account (IAA), Innovate UK or directly by industry. For example, our work with
 Jaguar Land Rover has been through funded PhD students.

 Impact is supported through protected workloads and reviewed in annual Performance and
 Development Review (PDR). Impact training and developmental activities are organised and
 delivered by the ADE and the Partnership Development Managers (PDMs). Staff can access
 comprehensive advice and support for bids at monthly Enterprise Clinics.

 The University’s Enterprise Projects Group (EPG) provides opportunities to bid for HEIF and
 EPSRC IAA funding to support impact activities. Since 2014, 9 impact projects were supported
 by IAA (£392,500) and 28 projects by HEIF (£285,900), (see 4.1).

 We have led the way at the University in the development of a School Partnership Strategy to
 build multifaceted relationships with research users including companies on Loughborough
 University Science and Enterprise Park (LUSEP) such as BeoBia, founded by a design
 alumnus, INCUS Performance and Tzuka, all employing our alumni.

 Our research has been shortlisted in Loughborough’s Biennial Enterprise Awards on 10
 occasions, winning four awards including the 2014 International Impact Award for 3D
 technologies in the restoration of invaluable artefacts in China’s Forbidden City and Summer
 Palace and Cultural Impact Award for the Animation Academy whose collaborations showcased
 British animators. In 2015, the Social and Cultural Impact Award went to HEART, an animation
 therapy for vulnerable and marginalised groups and the iD Cards won the most downloaded App
 award (reaching 17,957 downloads by 2018).

 We regularly engage with research users and beneficiaries through contract research and
 consultancy managed by Loughborough University Enterprises Ltd. During the assessment
 period 33 researchers engaged in 146 projects with 106 non-academic partners generating more
 than £2.3m income. These include government departments, healthcare providers,
 manufacturing and services companies, and sporting bodies. Notable examples include global
 automotive manufacturers, world-leading sport brands, the NHS (12 healthcare providers), 3
 police forces, the Ministry of Defence, Home Office and Transport for London.

 Pathways to Impact via Competitively Funded Knowledge Transfer
 We achieve impact via knowledge transfer funded by Innovate UK, ERDF and EPSRC, with
 HEIF and IAA funding managed by the University’s Enterprise Projects Group. In addition to
 the Impact Case Studies, notable examples include:
 • £90,000 IAA + £61,068 HEIF funding to support “The Dementia House” demonstration home
     presenting evidence-based design solutions enabling people to age well at home working
     with BRE Trust, Halsall Lloyd Partnerships and Liverpool John Moores University.
 • The “Direct Garment 3D printing: Additive Manufactured Clothing & Footwear” project
     received £146,111 from IAA + £76,789 from Yeh Textiles to progress towards commercial
     3D Printed textiles.
 • Working in collaboration with Granta, SCIN gallery and Material Driven, the “ENDURE”
     project received £46,685 IAA to increase designers’ knowledge of, and literacy in, material
     change through development of plug-ins for CES Edupack software and SCIN Gallery’s
     materials library, engaging the design community through two London exhibitions; Design
     Junction 2017 (28,000 visitors) and Surface Design Show, Business Design Centre, 2018
     (5,016 visitors).
 • “Healing Education Animation Research Therapy” received £27,106 HEIF enabling
     development of ‘Cultural Rivers’, an animation workshop and exhibition supporting visual and
     linguistic skills of first-generation immigrant children in Charnwood. Barnardo’s and NHS
     endorsed the project and HEART, in collaboration with the University of Sunderland, became
     an affiliate of the Animation Academy. They then collaborated on four editions of ‘Animation


                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     & Public Engagement Symposium’ 2015-2018, and a special issue of Animation Practice,
     Process & Production.
 •   The EPSRC project “Broadening Integration of Printed Power Sources with Electronic
     Systems: Rechargeable Printed Power Sources” proved the feasibility of making
     supercapacitors using mass produced printed electrodes and a patent for “Flexible Peelable
     Electronics” was filed (WO2017/077115Al). Working with Gwent Electronic Materials,
     £45,097 IAA funding enabled us to prove devices could be robust and mass-manufactured.

 How the Selected Impact Case Studies Relate to our Approach to Achieving Impact
 Our Impact Case Studies exemplify our approaches to achieving impact through strong
 partnerships with research users and policy makers to co-create research agendas and
 implement research findings often leveraging competitively awarded knowledge transfer funding.

 For example, the work with Transport for London (D32-1) was a direct response to their need to
 address collisions between Heavy Goods Vehicles and cyclists. Long-term partnership led to the
 initiation of research and delivery of safety recommendations followed by subsequent work to
 develop methods of implementation, informing international vehicle standards and regional
 transport policy. Our strong international partnerships contributed directly to our success in
 achieving impact in European road safety practice and policy through, for example, creating
 common definitions of accidents and standardised methods of data collection (D32-5). Our
 approach of working with international partners with particular regional challenges enabled us to
 effectively transfer research insights into meaningful interventions for marginalised indigenous
 communities in Canada (D32-7).

 Our human factors Impact Case Studies (D32-2, D32-4) demonstrate the effectiveness of
 working with research users to define and then answer research questions and implement new
 practices. This has, for example, led to the development of new and improved products for major
 sports brands and the development and implementation of new training for healthcare
 professionals to improve patient safety. D32-6 shows how long-term development and sharing of
 design processes through co-creating with companies, charities and disabled users enabled the
 development of new and improved assistive technology products.

 Our integrated approach to research and enterprise helped develop PhD research through
 knowledge transfer into implementation (D32-3). £24,478 HEIF funding enabled the PhD
 graduate to become an Enterprise Fellow for 12 months to develop tools and services to support
 the restoration of historic artefacts in the Summer Palace, Beijing. £45,675 Impact Acceleration
 Account funding enabled us to develop research-informed short courses for healthcare
 professionals and gather evidence of improvements in care delivery (D32-4). The first courses
 were delivered autumn 2019 to East Midlands Ambulance Trust and East Midlands Academic
 Health Science Network.

 1.4 Research and Impact objectives over the next five years

 Strategic planning is informed by rigorous reviews led by the Deans, an external review by
 Professor Rachel Cooper OBE and an Advisory Board. Research and impact strategies have
 been revised in accordance with wider School strategies to address societal challenges through
 innovative transdisciplinary research. We will focus on new research opportunities afforded by
 digitalization, improved working methods to nurture research culture and new opportunities
 arising from our London presence. The strategy is being co-developed with a wide range of
 stakeholders and involves representation and consultation with all art and design constituencies
 at Loughborough.

 Objectives for the next five years are:
 1. Invest in leadership, capability and capacity in digital technologies across all areas of
    art and design. We will build on our interdisciplinary research strengths in digital design and
    fabrication to encompass a wider range of technologies. This will enhance synergies across


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      disciplines to create leadership in areas such as heritage, sculpture and fine art practice,
      leading to innovative postgraduate research and research informed teaching.
 2.   Implement plans for c.£30m investment in a new building to provide new accommodation
      for Creative Arts and world-leading digital technologies to strengthen research in digital
      design and fabrication and enable entirely new forms of transdisciplinary research.
 3.   Build on opportunities afforded by our presence in London enabling us to strengthen
      partnerships with the British Council, V&A East, Design Museum, our alumni and other
      professionals in London. Target areas include culture, heritage, fine art and theatre. We will
      further develop existing partnerships; for example, our research directly influenced Ford’s
      decision to locate its new mobility innovation centre on Here East. Our transport safety
      research directly contributed to the £13.4m Smart Mobility Living Lab, led by TRL with
      Transport for London, Costain, Cisco, Cubic, DG Cities and the London Legacy
      Development Corporation, which will enable us to trial research findings within complex
      public environments leading to lasting impact. We co-founded the Global Disability
      Innovation Hub through which we will further develop collaborative research and impact with
      global reach. This includes work in and resulting from the Foreign Commonwealth and
      Development Office funded Assistive Technology 2030 programme.
 4.   We will train the next generation of transdisciplinary researchers to tackle complex
      social problems and issues, building on our success in Design Star and TECHNE and
      supported by University investment in mini-CDTs in ‘Feminism, Sexual Politics and Visual
      Culture’ and recently awarded ‘Harnessing Opportunities for Meaningful Environments
      (HOME)’ which will combine design technologies with multimodal and performative methods
      to develop new understanding of the experience of homelessness.
 5.   Building on six appointments made in 2019/20, we will increase research capacity and
      leadership by nurturing our current talent through a tailored development and mentoring
      programme and strategic recruitment.
 6.   Develop an international centre of excellence in Graphic Design research building on four
      recent appointments.
 7.   Grow external research income to enable sustained investment in facilities, increase in
      postdoctoral research capacity and strategic growth in PGR.
 8.   Contribute to research in the £70m civilian National Rehabilitation Centre (operational
      2023), in collaboration with the £300m Defence Medical Rehabilitation Centre, both
      located near Loughborough.

 1.5 Open Research Environment

 The University has been a pioneer of the ‘Open Agenda’, actively supporting repositories for
 text-based outputs (since 2005) and data (since 2015), now unified (2019) in a single Research
 Repository. Our repository accommodates all outputs, including performances, exhibitions and
 practice-based research, to be shared (with digital object identifiers) in a manner not previously
 possible. Our open access commitment pre-dates external OA policies; shown by 76% of all
 journal articles since 2014 in the RR. From 2016, it has been our policy that all journal articles
 and conference papers are deposited within three months of acceptance, exceeding the
 REF2021 requirement. Our landmark Open Research Position Statement formally committed to
 depositing the full-text of 100% of our primary research outputs in our now unified (2019)
 Research Repository (including on closed access where unavoidable) from 2020. As of now,
 SDCA has deposited 100% of 2020 journal articles.

 We aim to have 100% open access to all publicly funded research outputs by 2022 including
 contextual PDFs for practice-based outputs. Authors are encouraged to publish in green open
 access journals with gold preferred. We use Creative Commons licenses to ensure work is
 accessible with correct attribution and control. As of October 2020, the collective outputs of the
 School received more than 2 million downloads. For example, the Loughborough Urban
 Graphic Object Archive had 97,511 views and 24,032 downloads.




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.6 Culture of Research Integrity

 Our research spans a diverse range of disciplines from physiology to visual culture with a
 common theme of addressing the individual and collective needs of people. Research integrity
 and underpinning ethical principles are therefore deeply embedded in practice. Ethics is
 overseen by an experienced senior academic and all research adheres to the rigorous principles
 and processes of the University’s Ethical Policy Framework and Code of Practice for Research,
 underpinned by the principles of UUK’s Concordat to Support Research Integrity.

 Our researchers play an active role in the University’s Ethics Committees ensuring that policies
 and procedures are informed from arts and humanities perspectives as well as sciences. In
 2020, Haines led the University’s review of ethical approval processes. Our research in
 Responsible Design actively explores the ethical frames for art and design research.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing and Recruitment Policy

 Staffing Policy
 All Category A staff have open-ended contracts, engage in Research, Teaching and
 Enterprise (RTE) and contribute to administration and management. All academics have a
 minimum protected workload (28% or higher) for research and impact. Part-time working is
 welcome and 16 staff work part-time. Researchers working on externally funded projects (or
 those on temporary cover posts) are typically on fixed term contracts.

 Recruitment Strategy
 In line with our research strategy, recruitment has focused on research strengths, leadership,
 international reputation and establishing our London presence. Recruitment prioritises early
 career potential and proven research achievement; shifting from irregular reactive appointments
 to strategic, planned recruitment implemented through University coordinated biannual
 campaigns. Areas of highest teaching workload have been supported through teaching-only
 appointments, releasing research time to RTE colleagues. We strategically appoint Visiting
 Academics from partner organisations on honorary contracts to provide strong reciprocal links
 informing and facilitating research and impact.

 Recruitment reflects our commitment to equality, diversity and inclusivity. We shortlist all
 applicants with disabilities meeting essential criteria, all members of selection panels attend
 mandatory recruitment and selection and unconscious bias training and panels are mixed
 gender. Strategic action plans are informed by annual monitoring for gender and ethnicity in
 recruitment, management roles, training, promotions, funding applications and applications for
 study leave.

 Pattern of staff recruitment over the assessment period
 We invested in early career talent with 27 new Lecturer appointments. Three strategic Senior
 Lecturer appointments increased capacity in Textiles, Digital Fabrication and Graphic Design.
 Leadership was strengthened by six Professors and one Reader (subsequently promoted to
 Professor). We benefited from the University Excellence 100 campaign (2017-19), attracting
 three internationally renowned Professors, one Lecturer, one Vice-Chancellor’s Research Fellow
 (for ECRs with the highest potential, five-years fixed term, permanent on successful promotion)
 and two Doctoral Prize Fellows (two-year posts within two-years of PhD award).

 Evidence of Effectiveness
 Staff returned have increased from 57 (69% of 83 headcount in REF2014) to 92 (100%).
 Appointing world-leading academics de Bont as SDCA Dean, Koria to lead the Institute for
 Design Innovation and Dong enhanced international reputation and leadership. We have grown
 from 9 to 21 Professors through recruitment (6) and promotion (6). We appointed 33 Honorary


                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Visiting Academics, including Prof Patrick Jordan (Middlesex University), Prof Sarah Pink
 (Monash University) and the former Age UK Chief Scientist Prof James Goodwin.

 Demographic Profiles and Succession Planning
 Our profile demonstrates vitality and sustainability: 4.4% Research Fellows, 40% Lecturer,
 28.6% Senior Lecturer, 27% Reader / Professor. On the census date 16 (15.6FTE) met the REF
 definition of Early Career Researcher. Four Readers are nearing promotion; two of whom were
 promoted to Reader in the assessment period. The balance of our demographics provides many
 opportunities for progression and succession as described in staff development below. Key
 leadership positions have succession plans that inform strategic recruitment and internal staff
 development.

 2.2 Staff Development Strategy

 We created the role of Director of Academic Development in the Senior Management Team to
 develop strategy and actions, often with ED&I dimensions, for staff development and succession
 planning. Senior Lecturers are supported in developing leadership through School roles.
 Developmental opportunities are strategically allocated to Readers in preparation for senior
 roles. For example, Associate Dean Research (ADR) Bibb served 9-months as Acting Dean
 whilst Haines (Reader) became Acting ADR, providing two excellent developmental
 experiences. Haines subsequently became ADR after her promotion to Professor.

 Technical staff develop through the Midlands Innovation TALENT courses, HNC, degrees,
 Institute of Leadership and Management (ILM) courses, Institute of Science and Technology
 registration and Associate Fellowship of the Advance HE (3 FTE).

 We support academic colleagues from an arts or industry practice background to achieve PhD
 by Publications (only available to staff). Six colleagues achieved PhDs in the assessment period
 with two in progress.

 Participation in conferences and research visits are essential career development, build
 international visibility and foster collaborations. Academic staff have £1,000 individual budget for
 research travel and conference attendance.

 Mentoring
 The Academic Development Mentoring Scheme is open to colleagues at any grade. Formally
 trained mentors support promotion to Senior Lecturer and Reader, while Associate Deans
 support Readers preparing Professorial applications. Evidence of success is 16 promotions (8
 women, 8 men) since 2014.

 Contribution of Research Associates
 Research Associates are integral to our research community enjoying the same opportunities
 and facilities as RTE staff. During the assessment period, 64 fixed-term Research Associates
 (32 men, 32 women) contributed to more than 90 funded projects with 15 (7 men, 8 women) in
 post on the census date. 12 Research Associates have gone on to be appointed as Lecturers (7
 at Loughborough, 5 elsewhere). This includes three researchers appointed as parental leave
 cover who subsequently gained permanent academic positions.

 Researcher Development
 A proven part of our staff development strategy is retaining and nurturing early career talent,
 developing PhD students into Research Associates and subsequently into Early Career
 Lecturers within Loughborough and beyond. We encourage Research Associates to apply for
 parental leave cover vacancies that provide opportunities for lecturer experience. Researchers
 are supported according to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 and the Vitae framework. Full access to staff development opportunities includes the
 ‘Recognition of Teaching for Researchers’ (ROTOR) and ‘Associate Teaching Pathway’ (ATP)
 programmes, leading to Associate / Fellowship of Advance HE. Two Research Fellows have

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 been supported to achieve PhDs by Publications during the assessment period with one
 subsequently being appointed to an RTE position. We have dedicated support for applications
 for externally funded Fellowships. Researchers meet the ADR quarterly to discuss development
 needs. We participate in CROS responding to findings via annual Research Action Plan. Our
 research staff have been prominent in the leadership of the Loughborough University Research
 Staff Association (LURSA).

 New Lecturers’ Programme (NLP)
 NLP offers three-years of comprehensive training. Annually incremented teaching load (33%,
 50%, 67% of norms) enables development of a balanced RTE profile, guided by an experienced
 and trained Advisor. NLP covers all aspects of research and impact (publication, funding,
 collaboration, public engagement, partnerships), guarantees supervision of a PhD student and
 leads to Advance HE Fellow status. During the assessment period, 20 early career academics
 (18.9 FTE) successfully completed NLP with 3 subsequently progressing to Senior Lecturer. 11
 academics are currently on NLP.

 Appraisal, Promotion and Reward
 A significant enhancement in the assessment period was the new annual Performance and
 Development Review (PDR) in which staff reflect on achievements and discuss plans with a
 trained reviewer. All reviewers complete mandatory ED&I training including unconscious bias.
 PDR recognises that the form and volume of research output and impact differ across art and
 design disciplines and reviewers take account of disciplinary norms. Objectives are agreed and
 revisited after 6 months. PDR identifies individual training needs and considers workload;
 especially important for ECRs, grant-holders and those with managerial responsibilities.
 Fairness and equity are ensured through moderation by the Senior Review Group who make
 final recommendations. PDR provides fair and equal opportunity to recognise and reward
 excellent performance and enables staff to seek promotion through a transparent process with
 clearly described criteria. PDR has particularly benefited fixed-term Research Associates for
 whom developmental discussion was previously sporadic and consideration for reward rare.

 Performance and promotion criteria focus on quality rather than quantitative measures ensuring
 part-time staff are not disadvantaged and expectations recognise career stage and personal
 circumstances. PDR data are analysed each year through equality impact assessments.
 Protected characteristics, where available, are analysed and when appropriate, we have revised
 the PDR process or training arrangements to address issues identified.

 Evidence of the effectiveness of staff development
 During the assessment period, 25% of eligible academic staff achieved promotion including one
 person promoted to Reader then Chair. By gender: 5 men / 3 women promoted to Senior
 Lecturer, one man / one woman to Reader, 2 men / 4 women to Professor.

 Research and Impact Leave
 University and School Fellowships (study leave) provide up to 12 months protected time and £5k
 budget. This has benefited staff returning from significant managerial roles. During the
 assessment period, 8 Fellowships were awarded (4 men, 4 women, 3 to staff completing
 Associate Dean terms) amounting to 77 person-months of intensive research activity.
 Academics are encouraged to seek funded industry secondments. For example, Paterson
 received a Royal Academy of Engineering Industry Fellowship with Central Scanning Ltd. that
 both informed and benefited from our Digital Design and Fabrication research. Mitchell was
 awarded 12 months (0.4FTE) secondment to service design agency Snook as academic lead for
 Learning Design.

 2.3 Postgraduate Research Students (PGRs)

 PGRs are fundamental to the vitality of our research culture and environment. 167 (148FTE)
 students, including 71 international students from 34 countries, graduated showing substantial
 growth from REF2014 (88FTE). 57 are now in academic posts: 42 full academics and 16

                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers in the UK, Botswana, China, Iran, Ireland, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, Sweden,
 Thailand, UAE and USA. Graduates included 22 part-time students.

 Interdisciplinary PhDs are prominent: during the assessment period Unit staff successfully co-
 supervised 41 PGRs (headcount) across 12 Departments / Schools. Our theses in the Research
 Repository had received more than 472,000 downloads at the time of writing.

 PGRs are allocated a permanent desk, PC and phone in high quality office accommodation for
 their funded period. Arts students are allocated studio space within a community of practice-
 based researchers. We gain feedback from the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey
 (PRES), which can be benchmarked nationally. For example, Design PGRs had above national
 average overall satisfaction (88% 2017; 86% 2019) especially with working space, computing
 resources and facilities. 2017 results revealed our support for conference attendance and paper
 submission exceeds national average. 2019 showed above national average ratings for
 supervisors’ skills and knowledge (92%) regular contact (94%) and feedback (92%).
 Development of research skills was highly rated for methods (98%); critical analysis (98%);
 research integrity (96%) and confidence to be creative (86%).

 Funding
 The University is committed to supporting a vibrant PGR population significantly investing in
 Doctoral College Studentships, funding 60% of our graduates during the assessment period.
 12% were Research Council funded, most co-funded by industry. 15% were funded by charity,
 government or industry, including prestigious scholarships such as the Schlumberger
 Foundation. 14% were self-funded.

 Our strategic support for interdisciplinary research across Schools is evidenced by our success
 in winning University funding for mini-Centres for Doctoral Training (mini-CDTs). Next
 Generation Prosthetics (2014 to 2020) graduated four interdisciplinary PhDs in design,
 materials, biology and engineering. Feminism, Sexual Politics & Visual Culture (2018) currently
 has 13 students supervised by a cross-disciplinary team spanning fine art, graphic design,
 English literature, drama, art history, gender studies, politics and sociology.

 We are a partner in the £2.2m AHRC CDT Design Star with Reading, Open, Goldsmiths and
 Brighton. Design Star is committed to offering studentships to those with professional experience
 and promoting part-time study. 64 students in 5 cohorts were admitted from 2015. By the census
 date, of 11 Loughborough students, 6 had graduated, one submitted with 4 in progress. LUL is a
 member of the recently renewed TECHNE AHRC DTP. Cross-School co-supervision of science
 and engineering students was supported by EPSRC DTP studentships and EPSRC CDTs in
 Additive Manufacturing, Embedded Intelligence and the London-Loughborough Energy Demand
 CDT, renewed in 2019 as the CDT in Energy Resilience and the Built Environment. Our
 partnerships with external organisations such as Nissan, OS and Materialise resulted in partial
 and full industry funded PhDs, CASE Awards and match for CDT students.

 Recruitment
 We advertise via the University website, FindAPhD, jobs.ac.uk, School and staff LinkedIn and
 Twitter accounts using imagery that reflects our diverse population. Rigorous selection prioritises
 academic achievement with decisions based on reviews and interviews by two academics and at
 least two references. We make particular efforts to attract and support part-time PhD candidates
 and have considerable success in supporting practicing professionals as well as those with
 caring responsibilities. Applicants with disabilities are invited to identify requirements and are
 supported by the University’s Counselling and Disability Service.

 Support
 All PGRs have two supervisors taking account of combined expertise, workload and supervisory
 experience. Where beneficial a third supervisor is appointed. This ensures interdisciplinary
 research can be comprehensively supervised and supports early career supervisors by teaming


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 them with experienced colleagues. To maintain a balanced workload and high-quality student
 experience, supervisors normally supervise a maximum of 6 PhDs.

 In response to PRES feedback, we appointed 2 Deputy Directors of Doctoral Programmes (one
 man, one woman) to support PGR inductions and one-to-one meetings with all new students
 within their first month. We initiated Personal Tutors to provide pastoral support independent of
 the supervision relationship. We are proud that a number of our graduates with a variety of
 serious health and ability challenges, including unforeseen sudden serious illness and injury,
 have been successfully supported through their studies.

 Monitoring
 Directors of Doctoral Programmes and Research Administrators monitor and support
 supervision. Quality is managed through documented monthly meetings, 6-month reviews and
 Annual Progression Boards. Progression is reviewed by Supervisors and an Independent
 Reviewer based on written reports, training plans and interviews. Progression Boards review all
 reports and mitigating circumstances or leave of absence requests. Those not making expected
 progress are given three months support to get back on track. The Associate PVC for the
 Doctoral College oversees quality assurance including admissions, examinations and appeals,
 ensuring equitable treatment. A significant improvement since 2014 has been the establishment
 of a highly effective termly Staff-PGR Liaison Committee attended by elected PGR
 representatives.

 Skills Development
 Our PGRs contribute to research culture by organising their own annual design research
 conference DesRes and contributing to the Doctoral College’s Research Conference, Summer
 Showcase, PhD Support & Social Network, Loughborough’s Qualitative Digital Research
 Laboratory, Cafés Academique, and Three Minute Thesis competition. Many of our students are
 engaged in CDTs providing multidisciplinary cross-institutional cohort training. Our industry
 sponsored PGRs benefit from industry placements and opportunities to develop transferable
 professional skills.

 Our PGRs benefit from comprehensive Doctoral College training aligned to the VITAE
 framework including Teaching Skills, Essential Teaching Skills and Recognition of Teaching for
 Researchers (ROTOR). Since its inception in 2016, 5 PGRs gained Advance HE Associate
 Fellowship and 6 achieved Fellow. On the census date 4 PGRs were engaged in ROTOR. The
 University offers support including a Statistics Advisory Service and an English Language
 Support Unit.

 2.4 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (ED&I)

 ED&I is embedded in policies and working practices at all levels. We adhere to the principles of
 ED&I, set out both in law and in good practice frameworks and guidance (e.g. Race Equality
 Charter, Athena SWAN Charter). The Design School was awarded Athena Swan Bronze in 2014
 and SDCA is actively working towards Silver through a detailed Action Plan led by a Champion
 supported by three ED&I Directors sitting on Senior Management Team. ED&I is explicit in the
 terms of reference and a standing agenda item of Research & Enterprise Committee, which
 represents the Unit gender balance with academic membership of 6 women and 5 men (3 L, 1
 SL, 7 Prof), plus Partnership and Research Development Managers (women) and Operations
 Manager (man). The 92 staff (headcount) in this submission show an equal gender balance. At
 Lecturer it is 44%/56% male/female; 52%/48% at SL and 60%/40% at Reader and Professor,
 showing an improving balance in the promotion pipeline. Over the assessment period, 64 fixed
 term Research Associates (headcount) showed an equal gender balance.

 10 out of 33 women (at L/SL) are part-time compared to 2 of 30 men. We aim to eliminate
 barriers to promotion for women in art and design. We are working to better understand and
 address the needs, requirements and challenges for people working part-time.


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The unit has 3.3% self-identified disabled staff. Overall, 10% self-identified as BAME, with 14%
 at Lecturer reflecting improving diversity in recent recruitment. 23% of staff are from 16
 countries: Australia, Canada, China, Colombia, Croatia, Finland, Germany, Greece, Ireland,
 Italy, Lithuania, Netherlands, Romania, South Korea, USA and Zimbabwe.

 Formal flexible working requests are submitted and approved by HR with support from
 Schools. Academic staff and PGRs operate with a great deal of autonomy and have the ability to
 work flexibly or remotely on an informal basis so long as their responsibilities are fulfilled. Our
 research increasingly leads to team working and sharing of roles and responsibilities. Our IT
 infrastructure enables effective remote working, much enhanced since the coronavirus
 pandemic. It is School policy that staff with caring responsibilities can apply for additional
 financial support for increased travel or caring costs for conferences and research visits.
 It is University policy to fund cover for parental leave and support staff during and when
 returning from periods of leave. During leave we use Keeping in Touch days to maintain
 contact with PhD students, mentors and funded projects. We allow gradual return to full-time or
 phased return via temporary fractional appointment and reduced responsibilities where workload
 allows.

 We ensure that staff with protected characteristics can research productively. We employ our
 in-house expertise in Human Factors to offer workplace Display Screen Equipment
 assessments. Staff are supplied with alternative seating, computer peripherals and sit-stand
 desks as needed. Colleagues with physical needs can be accommodated in fully accessible
 workspaces that includes full wheelchair access, including showers and T-hearing loop. We
 have an excellent record of supporting staff and PGRs with health challenges and disabilities, for
 example, providing dyslexia software, providing viva questions in advance, scheduling viva rest
 breaks and having a scribe to take notes. Additionally, we provided specialised workspace and
 adapted office furniture in two buildings to enable cross-disciplinary working for a PhD student
 with mobility challenges.

 We pay particular attention to supporting mental health and wellbeing, investing in training,
 including certified mental health first aiders, to recognise and address individual needs
 sensitively and promptly. The University Counselling Service is available for emergency
 meetings and long-term treatment. The University also subscribes to the Employee Assistance
 Programme providing 24-hour telephone counselling and repeated sessions for staff and PGRs
 with complex issues. We analyse Staff Survey responses to prioritise and address needs, such
 as recognising part-time workers when scheduling meetings, avoiding meetings at the start and
 end of the working day, adding comfort breaks into meetings and providing opportunities for
 social interaction. We hold monthly informal coffee mornings for all staff and recognise
 achievements with “Extra Mile Awards”. A comprehensive Workload Model ensures all staff have
 a balanced and reasonable workload.

 2.5 Equality & Diversity in the preparation of this Submission

 All preparations for this submission were conducted in accordance with the University’s Code of
 Practice. The selection of outputs was conducted through internal peer review by
 complementary paired reviewers made up of one man, one woman with one Prof/Reader and
 one L/SL. 38 people engaged in internal peer review balanced for self-identified gender (19
 women, 19 men) in line with the submission gender balance. 5% of our internal peer reviewers
 were BAME against a submission profile of 10%. This reflects increasing BAME staff numbers
 amongst new lecturers who were not included in reviewing to protect workload.

 This submission was managed by 4 women and 3 men. Outputs selection was coordinated by 4
 leads: design (woman), AHVC (woman), arts (man), IDI (man). Impact Case Studies were
 overseen by two leads (women) and one Team Lead (man). Everyone in the submission team
 attended REF-specific E&D training and all peer reviewers received unconscious bias and
 responsible use of metrics training. A member of this team served on the Code of Practice
 Working Group.

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Final output and ICS selections were based entirely on quality and extensive EIAs revealed no
 indicators of bias in selection analysed by gender, parental leave, ethnicity and ECR status with
 attention to overall selection, allocation of co-authored outputs and characteristics of threshold-
 spanning outputs. The resulting attribution of 216 outputs was 109 women / 107 men in line with
 the submission population.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Funding Strategy

 We recognise the variable availability of research funding in our different sub-disciplines and
 individual circumstances; therefore, academics are encouraged to focus on quality and
 sustained success rather than quantity of applications. Our strategy has been to encourage and
 support fewer but larger, more significant funding applications, improving quality and hence
 success rate. This has been achieved by:
  • Greater focus on innovative investigator-led responsive mode and fellowship applications.
  • Diversifying research income sources.
  • Building interdisciplinary partnerships and consortia capable of winning large research
     grants.

 Implementation
 Strategy is implemented through annual School Research Action Plans responding to detailed
 applications and awards data presented quarterly in University Research Committee and annual
 Research Quality Enhancement reviews. Actions included:
  • Encouraging and supporting each colleague to develop a long-term strategic funding plan.
  • Using PDR to prioritise and plan short-term funding objectives, request support and manage
    workload.
  • Prioritising School and University resources to concentrate support on substantial and
    strategically important funding applications.
  • Rigorous internal peer review for all funding applications.

 Sharing experience is resulting in a steady increase in significant large grant applications. Our
 increasing international visibility and reputation is leading to more invitations to join international
 consortia.

 The importance of grant capture with research consortia is evidenced in the number of large
 consortium grants secured (see below for project details). Notable examples include four EU
 Commission awards in Transport Safety involved 43 unique partners from 21 nations. In
 Environmental Ergonomics we partnered in the Heatshield project with 19 partners from 11
 European countries. In Digital Design & Fabrication, we lead the DiCoMi project with 18
 organisations from 12 nations and partnered in CassaMobile involving 11 organisations from 6
 nations.

 We have been particularly successful in competitively awarded UK Government-funded
 consortia projects in the critical new areas of connected autonomous and electric vehicles
 including Smart Mobility Living Lab (6 partners); Robopilot (9 partners); Capri (16 partners) and
 V2Street (11 partners).

 UKRI funded consortia include the Loughborough-led £267k EPSRC Improving customer
 experience while ensuring data privacy for intelligent mobility (7 partners), £5.4m EPSRC LoT-
 NET Low Temperature Heat Recovery & Distribution Network Technologies (14 partners),
 Design Star AHRC DTC (4 HEIs) and TECHNE AHRC DTP (9 HEIs). We encourage and
 support colleagues in applying for funded networks (see 4.1)

 Evidence of Success
 Successful implementation of our strategy is evidenced by combined value of research income
 during the assessment period of £12.4m and the number of major and prestigious awards. EU

                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Commission funding has been particularly significant at £3.4m. We have successfully diversified
 research resulting in £3.8m from EPSRC, AHRC, Research England, ESRC, NERC, MRC,
 Newton Fund, NIHR and Innovate UK including New Investigator Awards and Global Challenge
 Research Fund. Strong partnerships secured £3.5m from UK Government, £1.0m from industry
 and £0.7m from charities and other sources.

 Major and prestigious competitively won awards.
 Spanning Responsible Design and Innovation, we are a partner in: AHRC Creative
 Industries Clusters awards (one of only 9) for the £5.5m “Business of Fashion, Textiles &
 Technology” (£201,935); ESRC funded “Powering Productivity: Mapping the Role of Energy
 Infrastructure in UK Labour Productivity using Expert Elicitation and a Thematic Literature
 Review (£261,752); AHRC funded “Counter-framing design: Radical Design Practices for
 Sustainability and Social Change” (£199,296); and EPSRC funded “Circular Plastic: Utilising
 frontier technology and user-centred design to add value to plastic waste, facilitating
 entrepreneurship and employment” (£127,544).

 In Transport Safety, we secured one of only 8 Research England International Investment
 Initiative (I3) Fund awards for “An International Research Centre to study the effects of
 Connected and Autonomous Vehicles on Vulnerable Road-Users” with world-leading partners
 Queensland University of Technology, Australia and Tongji University, China (£436,000).
 Loughborough led the EU Commission Horizon 2020 funded projects “Levitate” (Societal Level
 Impacts of Connected and Automated Vehicles, €1,395,000) and “SafetyCube” (Safety
 Causation, Benefits and Efficiency, €983,220) and are partners in “i-DREAMS” (Safety tolerance
 zone calculation and interventions for driver-vehicle-environment interactions under challenging
 conditions, €961,343) and “SaferAfrica” (Innovating dialogue and problems appraisal for a safer
 Africa, €268,125). Loughborough secured funding from the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund
 Driverless Vehicles Challenge via the Centre for Connected & Autonomous Vehicles and
 Innovate UK including “Robopilot” (£215,354), “Capri” (£390,871) and the “London Smart
 Mobility Living Lab” (£379,907).

 Digital Design & Fabrication awards include the EU Commission funded “CassaMobile”
 (Flexible Mini-Factory for local and customized production in a container, €583,238), “DiCoMi”
 (Directional Composites through Manufacturing Innovation, €189,000) and “AMaTUC” (Boosting
 the scientific excellence and innovation capacity in additive manufacturing of the Technical
 University of Cluj-Napoca, €206,161) and EPSRC awards “Design for Additive Manufacturing”
 (£125,998) and Hybrid Additive Manufactured-Aramid fibre body armour (£100,699).

 In Experience Design, notable awards include the Innovate UK funded project “V2Street”
 (£187,313) and EPSRC awards “Low Temperature Heat Recovery and Distribution Network
 Technologies” (£260,108) and “Improving customer experience while ensuring data privacy for
 intelligent mobility” (£266,640).

 Significant AHRC awards include “Repositioning Graphic Heritage” (£202,384) and “Novel
 Digital Weaving Application Development to Innovate the current Woven Textile Coloration by
 developing an Optical Yarn Colour Mixing System” (£201,415).

 3.2 Organisational Infrastructure supporting Research and Impact

 Supporting research funding
 School Research Administrators support staff with project administration, finance and events.
 Research Development Managers (RDMs) assist academics with individual funding plans,
 drafting bids, responding to reviews and preparing for interviews. Academics can call on RDMs
 with specialist funder expertise. Fellowship applications are supported by a specialist RDM and
 detailed feedback from internal review panels. Research Support Teams provide costings,
 contracts and financial management.



                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All proposals go through rigorous internal peer review by experienced colleagues followed by
 review and approval by School Operations Managers and ADRs leading to measurable
 improvement in quality and collective success rate.

 The University’s Research Data Manager supports the writing of data management plans;
 especially beneficial when art and design research generates large quantities of data in
 challenging formats including physical artefacts, visual works, photography and video.

 Support for research outputs
 Librarians, School Research & Enterprise Coordinators and ADR provide information, advice
 and support on visibility and open access publishing. Training is provided on selecting outlets
 and raising visibility of research outputs. We provide journal selection and publication self-
 assessment guidance. Where appropriate, Advisors and Mentors support the drafting of papers
 and internal peer review of drafts is encouraged. The Library and Research Data Manager
 support academics to make works open access through the Research Repository. We support
 the exhibition of works using the University’s exhibition areas including the Martin Hall Gallery.

 Supporting Impact
 Research & Enterprise Coordinators work with University Marketing and Research and
 Enterprise (REO) Offices to support communications and interactions with diverse
 audiences and partners. ADE and School Partnership Development Managers support
 academics in building collaborations and partnerships. SDCA has developed a Partnerships
 Strategy that will be the model for all Schools. The Enterprise Projects Group reviewed,
 selected and awarded financial support for knowledge transfer and impact activities using
 HEIF and EPSRC Impact Accelerator Account funding (see section 4.1).

 3.3 Operational Infrastructure and Facilities

 The formation of SDCA has enabled even better utilisation of shared resources that support
 research across disciplines. Art and Design occupy c.12,000m2 across 5 buildings housing
 1800m2 of studios, workshops and labs, including 230m2 of flexible reconfigurable research
 space. This is supported by 24 FTE technical staff who contribute to the design and construction
 of prototypes, experimental apparatus, art works and installations. Following £21m investment in
 a new Design building in 2012, we have invested a further £3.7m in new equipment and
 infrastructure since 2014. This has supported for example, digital jacquard research, a purpose-
 built digital embroidery lab and the “Studio of Light”, a photography lab enabling novel
 platinum/palladium printing and archiving. In addition to the exhibition spaces within our
 buildings, the separate dedicated exhibition space, The Martin Hall Gallery, is operated in
 conjunction with LU Arts and regularly used for research informed public exhibitions (see section
 4).

 Notable world-leading facilities include the Environmental Ergonomics Research Centre’s two
 large Climatic Chambers capable of creating worldwide conditions of altitude, temperature,
 humidity, wind and radiation for research experiments. In addition to the £1.5 million investment
 in the last REF period, another £400k has been invested since 2014 in a new thermal manikin
 and human physiology equipment.

 We have three Driving Simulators including one in the new Human Factors Research
 Laboratory (HFRL), part of the Smart Mobility Living Lab; a £230k investment providing state
 of the art capabilities in Connected and Autonomous Vehicle safety. A high-performance
 workstation and secure 250Tb Network Attached Storage enables analysis of large private data
 sets. Our partnerships enable collaborative use of research infrastructure for example in
 transport safety research we can access resources at Queensland University of Technology and
 Tongji University.

 Our buildings are copiously equipped with digital design facilities including Computer Aided
 Design labs, a variety of industry standard software, user interface hardware including haptics

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Wacom Cintiq pen displays, 3D scanners, 3D motion capture, 3D Printers, CNC milling
 machines and laser cutters. Since 2014, the Design Research in Additive Manufacturing
 research lab acquired £123k worth of experimental 3D Printers, a bespoke hybrid 5-axis 3D
 Printer, digital metrology, 3D scanners, Instron tensile testing machine and associated software.

 Our machine shop includes lathes, milling machines, waterjet cutter and injection moulding
 machine. Multi-material fabrication and model making workshops include vacuum forming and a
 spray booth. Metal fabrication workshops enable cutting, brazing/welding and there are 2 Wood
 Preparation Workshops. The electronics lab enables the creation and testing of electrical,
 electronic and programmable prototypes including the manufacture of Printed Circuit Boards.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4. 1 Support for Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

 Strategic partnerships with world-leading organisations have been crucial to enhancing our
 research environment and international reach and influence.
 To strengthen our partnerships we: -
     • Appointed Directors of Internationalisation
     • Recruited more international academics,
     • Prioritised international consortium funding bids, including competitively funded
        Networks,
     • Initiated and supported international thought leadership events.

 Combined with support from the Partnership Development Managers and International Office,
 this led to successful collaborative projects. We pursued long-term agreements with world-
 leading Universities and joined international networks such as Cumulus. We focused on four
 strategic areas:
     • consortia for competitively funded research
     • strengthening our presence in London
     • collaborative postgraduate research
     • competitively funded research Networks

 Over the assessment period our staff contributed to funded projects involving 230
 organisations in 33 countries including 57 universities.

 Building consortia for competitively funded research has been achieved by nurturing long-
 term relationships over multiple projects with long-term partners. For example, in Transport
 Safety we have worked across many EU funded projects with Universita Di Roma, National
 Technical University of Athens, Chalmers University, Hasselt University and TU Delft amongst
 others. The effectiveness is evidenced by the significant number and value of awards shown in
 section 3.

 Strengthening our presence in London has been facilitated by hosting and engaging in
 numerous networking and partnership building events and initiatives. For example, working with
 local partners including University College London, London College of Fashion, Royal College of
 Art, London Legacy Development Corporation and V&A has resulted in major long-term
 programmes including the AHRC Creative Clusters funded Business of Fashion, Textiles &
 Technology (3.1.3) and the Global Disability Innovation Hub.

 Collaborative postgraduate research has been achieved by specifically pursuing relevant
 competitive funding such as the recently awarded £270k Erasmus+ Strategic Partnership “Open
 Educational Resource to facilitate transparency, internationalisation and evidence of excellence
 for the European doctorate in design” in collaboration with Aalto University, University of Rome,
 Middle East Technical University as well as the previously mentioned TECHNE DTP and Design
 Star CDT (section 2.3).


                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Competitively funded Networks enable us to devote substantial time and resources to
 developing partnerships, new funding applications and co-authorship. We strategically targeted
 funding such as Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions Research & Innovation Staff Exchange
 resulting in the DiCoMi project and EPSRC Network funding resulting the “Redistributed
 Manufacturing in Deployed Operations Network Plus” in partnership with UWE, Newcastle,
 Sussex, UCL, Heriot-Watt and Kings College London.

 A significant benefit of our funded networking projects is reciprocal staff exchanges, which
 enriches research culture and environment, diversifies research teams, brings fresh
 international perspectives and builds long-lasting partnerships. The DiCoMi project enabled
 three Loughborough researchers to take 4-week secondments in companies including Kordsa
 (Turkey), Carboline (Ukraine) and Vaal University (South Africa); we hosted 12 visitors from
 companies including Kordsa, Intelligentsia (Luxembourg), Guhring and Fibrex (Romania),
 Central Metallurgical R&D Inst. (Egypt) and Vaal University; totalling c.340 person-days of
 reciprocal exchange. The AMa-TUC project enabled reciprocal week-long Additive
 Manufacturing summer schools with FH Aachen and University of Cluj-Napoca.

 Selected Notable Relationships with Research Users, Beneficiaries & Audiences
 It is vital that our academics are fully engaged with their wider subjects, professions and
 organisations to ensure that our research remains focused on users’ and society’s needs and
 that organisations benefit from our research findings and leadership.

 We organised research exchange meetings with adidas, Nike, Decathlon and Mizuno to better
 understand research questions, capabilities and transfer knowledge, leading to industry-funded
 projects and studentships producing new products (e.g. adidas clothing for under 10-year olds)
 or guidelines (e.g. Decathlon clothing labelling system for optimal temperature of use in
 children’s clothing). Our expertise in human heat exposure was called upon by HM Senior
 Coroner for Birmingham and Solihull to investigate and testify on suspected heat stroke deaths
 in the military which also informed our research into working in heat (Heat-Shield project EU).
 Our contribution led to the coroner sending out two ‘regulation 28 report to prevent future deaths’
 for the military to change their policy guidance and procedures and to a personal invitation to
 provide written evidence to the Parliamentary Defence Committee: ‘Military Exercises and Duty
 of Care response’.

 Our partnership with Nissan Motor Company led to five co-funded EPSRC PhD studentships
 including industry placements, visits to technical HQ in Japan and provision of automotive parts
 and research equipment. Research addressed seat concepts, thermal sensation of seating and
 ethnicity, and co-designing with older drivers and autonomous vehicle interior layout. Quarterly
 meetings with industry teams provide knowledge exchange and impact e.g. input to Nissan’s
 global Engineering Manuals and a patent application.

 Our collaboration with Transport for London (TfL), in three projects since 2014, led to the
 definition of new UK and United Nations Economic Commission for Europe standards to improve
 the design of Heavy Goods Vehicles. Eight HGV manufacturers are now using our assessment
 tools with our team supporting them in validating results. Through this network we gained an
 international reputation as the world’s leading experts in vehicle vision modelling and the
 definition of new standards.

 Since 2014 over 20 organisations benefited from working with SAMMIE (the digital human
 modelling software developed, licensed and supported by Loughborough), including Philips,
 and Ricardo. Our researchers used SAMMIE in multiple research projects for organisations
 such as TfL, Ipeco (producing seats for Boeing) and the Air Accident Investigation Branch.

 We are achieving impact through knowledge exchange and translational research in design for
 Additive Manufacturing through partnerships ranging from international companies such as
 Grundfos to local UK SMEs such as Vervide and international PGR training with Universita
 Politecnico Delle Marche. Our 3D Printed orthotics research with the Royal Derby Hospital,

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Kings College Hospital and The Nuffield Health Derby Hospital received translational
 funding from Versus Arthritis. Similarly, our research collaboration with the Home Office and
 DSTL into 3D Printed body armour is delivering impact from EPSRC funded research.

 IDI’s partnership with Citizens UK, led to multiple projects addressing fair energy and citizen-
 centred services including the AHRC funded “Counter-Framing Design” and London Legacy
 Development Corporation supported Fair Energy initiative. We worked with London Campus
 neighbours Here East, Change Please & BT Sports on #Lollybin. This JOINT fund project
 identified, designed and tested behavioural change interventions to reduce single use coffee cup
 waste including a successful 1-month field trial on site.

 Selected examples of Wider Contributions to the Economy and Society
 The Animation Academy works with museum archives on public engagement with partners such
 as Disney Pixar, Aardman, Sporting Heritage, Barnardo’s and NHS. Audience engagement is
 achieved through our journal, Animation Practice, Process & Production, sponsored public
 exhibitions (e.g. HAFF, Utrecht; WFAF, Varna; Animated Dreams, Tallinn; Anifest, Teblice and
 Animafest, Zagreb), and funded workshops (e.g. CinekidScriptLab, VAF ScriptMentor and
 Cultural Rivers). Supported by commercial partners and working in collaboration with the
 Association of British Animation Archives, BFI, Halas & Batchelor Collections, BAFTA and
 former National Media Museum, we developed exhibitions including ‘Halas & Batchelor at Studio
 Ghibli, Japan, 2015’, ‘Watch Me Move 2011-16; The Animation Show’; ‘Kovasznai, Somerset
 House / Courtauld 2016-17’; and ‘The Beautiful Frame: Animation & Sport 2017-19 National
 Football Museum (touring Japan, China, Australia). The Academy’s public engagement includes
 the annual Animation and Public Engagement Symposium and an International Festival of
 Animated Films made by the physically disabled in partnership with the University of Texas.

 We have collaborated with the Royal Society of Sculptors, National Trust for Scotland, Boughton
 Living Heritage Trust and Burghley Sculpture Garden and contributed to the international
 research infrastructure through Board membership of the Sculpture Journal, membership of
 AHRC Heritage Science team at the Smithsonian, Washington, USA and editorship of the
 Journal of Visual Art Practice and Tracey: Drawing and Visualisation Research.

 In Art History and Visual Culture, our work with Christie’s New York and Bloomsbury Academic.
 The Re-imagining Citizenship project united cross-School research groups with artists and
 researchers from outside the University, creating an online archive for its exhibit at the Venice
 Biennale (2019) and conducting workshops in Venice, Helsinki and Bologna.

 Richardson was invited to present his research in Glasgow’s Capital of Culture bid and
 subsequent award at a major event hosted by the National University of Ireland, Galway,
 November 2014. The event was devised by 126 Artist-Run Gallery in partnership with European
 Capital of Culture Galway 2020 Bid Team, TULCA Festival of Visual Art 2014 and Adapt
 Galway. His research on contemporary visual art in Glasgow informed discussions on the
 implications of being a ‘City of Culture’, initiated dialogue on wider cultural impact and
 contributed to Galway’s successful bid for European Capital of Culture 2020.

 We collaborate with LU Arts RADAR programme to link art practice and academic research. LU
 Arts contribute to PhD student and new staff induction and facilitate collaborative PhDs. Our
 academics contributed to many LU Arts events over the assessment period (too many to
 describe). For example, within 2018-19, research informed exhibitions and performances
 attracted over 700 attendees, including Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS) supported Geometry
 that featured 3D Printed sculptures designed and made in collaboration with Maths colleagues,
 and To the tintinnabulation that so musically wells; Re-Imagining Citizenship and Assunta
 Ruocco. There were also four research informed performances: Formal Gardens; What Hope
 Utopia?; Wearables and Sound (IAS supported); and Art Education. University, School and LU
 Arts social media were actively used to raise the visibility of and access to art and design
 research.


                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2 Contribution to the Sustainability of Art, Design and Human Factors

 Unit academics make significant contributions to sustaining our disciplines through national and
 international professional bodies, subject associations and organisations, thereby shaping
 intellectual and development agendas.

 Loughborough is leading change in graphic design research. Between 2014–19, Harland was
 the inaugural chair of the Graphic Design Educators’ Network and oversaw 12 conferences
 attracting 854 attendees. He was involved in the Graphic Design and the REF (October 2018)
 and Graphic Design Research beyond REF2021 (March 2019). In 2017 Harland edited a
 special issue of Art, Design & Communication in Higher Education titled ‘Territories of Graphic
 Design Education’. These activities are building a research agenda that distinguishes practice
 and research. In 2018, Harland secured a major AHRC award “Repositioning Graphic Heritage”
 arguably the first grant to foreground graphic design practice as a research perspective.

 Our academics have been instrumental in leadership of the Design Research Society (DRS),
 holding positions including Executive Board Member and Vice Chair (Cain 2020 to date), Chair
 of Council (Bhamra 2016-19) and Honorary Secretary (Cain 2009-19), with Lofthouse,
 Trimingham and Harland also serving terms on Council. Bhamra and Cain were instrumental in
 transforming the DRS with a more international and inclusive governance structure (approved
 January 2020). Cain founded and convenes the Design for Wellbeing, Health and Happiness
 Special Interest Group and Wilson co-leads Sustainability. Cain co-chaired the DRS 2020
 Conference. Bhamra, Bibb and Dong are DRS Fellows. 24 staff are DRS members.

 The Unit contributes to national and international agendas through membership of CHEAD (the
 Council for Higher Education in Art & Design), with Richardson appointed to the CHEAD
 Research Alliance Strategy Group, and Cumulus, the International Association of Universities
 and Colleges of Art, Design and Media. de Bont is on the scientific committee for the Cumulus
 2021 conference: Design Culture(s).

 Our academics have made longstanding contributions to the Chartered Institute for
 Ergonomics & Human Factors (CIEHF) fulfilling significant roles including Haslam R as
 President and Chair of Council 2014-15 (when the Royal Charter was granted). Staff have
 served as Chair and or members of the Professional Affairs Board, Education and Training
 Panel, Membership Committee, Honours Committee and Annual Conference Programme
 Committee. Hignett served on the Health Education England ‘Learning to be Safer’ Expert Group
 and Health Education East Midlands ‘Human Factors Exchange Steering Group’. 17 academics
 are members, including 8 Fellows and 8 Chartered. Haslam R is also a Fellow of the
 International Ergonomics Association.

 We provide training and experience in developing themes, calls and research events for Early
 Career Researchers and PGRs. This includes for example opportunities to disseminate research
 to international audiences at the annual Drawing Research Network conferences hosted by
 Loughborough since 2014.

 We hosted the first in a series of international thought leadership events in collaboration with
 Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS). The Experience Design Summit featured invited leading
 academics including Prof Hekkert (TU Delft), Prof Chen (TU Eindhoven), Prof Pink (Monash
 University), Prof Ahmed-Kristiansen (Exeter) Prof Hassenzahl (Universitat Siegen) plus 15
 experts for a series of workshops, discussions, lectures and public engagements in September
 2019. The outputs from the Summit are informing future research strategy at Loughborough and
 worldwide.

 4.3 Indicators of Wider Influence

 The Unit strongly supports engagement in all forms of peer review and editorial responsibility.
 We believe that this experience improves our academics’ understanding of the procedures of

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research funders, their ability to conduct rigorous peer review and ultimately their ability to write
 funding bids. Membership of Peer Review Colleges is encouraged and supported. Similarly, we
 support membership of and contributions to international, national and subject and professional
 bodies, advisory boards and steering committees. Our most significant and influential editorial
 and professional roles are highlighted below.
 Our international influence is evidenced by staff holding Visiting Professorships including for
 example Morris, University of Hasselt; Campbell, Vaal University of Technology; Meskimmon,
 University of Gothenburg and Whiteley, VCA University of Melbourne.

 We encourage and train colleagues to be external PhD examiners. Colleagues conducted over
 172 doctoral examinations in the UK, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Czech,
 Denmark, Finland, France, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Italy, Malta, Netherlands, New Zealand,
 Norway, Romania, South Africa, Spain and Sweden.

 National and International Committees
 Colleagues have been invited to join important Committees and Boards including:
 • Yarrington’s membership of the Advisory Committee for Research on European
     Paintings led by the National Gallery and the Paul Mellon Centre for Studies in British
     Art Advisory Council; External Academic Representative on the Subject Specialist
     Network in British Art Steering Committee; and Chair of the UK Committee of the
     Comité International d’histoire de l’art.
 • Lindley served on the AHRC Heritage Science Team at the Smithsonian, Washington DC
     and Advisory Group of the AHRC Impact Fellowship.
 • Our contributions to the leadership of committees include Chair of European Society for
     Protective Clothing (Havenith); Secretary of the Fashion and Textiles Subject
     Association steering group (Walton); Chair of the Association of British Animation
     Collections (Wells) and Executive Committee of the Association of Art Historians
     (Whiteley). Selection panel member, Distinguished Feminist Award, College Art
     Association USA (Robinson, 2015-2017, 2016-2017 Chair).
 • Colleagues advise industry boards such as the Adidas Research & Innovation Advisory
     Board (Havenith).

 Participation on grants committees
 Our support is evidenced by three Associate Member appointments to the EPSRC Peer Review
 College (Johnson, Torrens, Waterson) and two to the UKRI International Development Peer
 Review College (Escobar-Tello, Torrens). 7 are full members of the EPSRC Peer Review
 College (Bhamra, Bibb, Cain, Campbell, Haines, Hignett, Marshall). Bibb served on the EPSRC
 Healthcare Technologies Strategic Advisory Team 2014-17. During the assessment period 11
 served on the AHRC Peer Review College (Bhamra, Bibb, Campbell, Dong, Escobar-Tello,
 Marshall, Porter, Richardson, Sinclair) with Bibb serving on the Technical Reviewers and
 Knowledge Transfer group, Bhamra serving on the PRC Strategic Review Group and
 Richardson Chair of the Follow-on Funding for Impact and Engagement Scheme, Chair of the
 Research Grants Panel and Convenor of New Peer Review College members training. During
 the period colleagues served on and chaired many selection and prioritisation panels for AHRC
 and EPSRC.

 Bhamra is serving on the REF2021 Panel D32 Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory
 and was a panel member in REF2014.

 Two staff contribute to the Carnegie Trust for Universities in Scotland (Bibb, Richardson). Gyi
 is a member of the Dunhill Medical Trust review panel. Collectively staff have reviewed funding
 applications for Horizon 2020; Australian Research Council; Estonian Cultural Forum Research
 Grants, Medical Research Council (MRC), Natural Sciences & Engineering Research Council
 Canada, Health Research Board Ireland, Technology Foundation STW (Netherlands), National
 Research Foundation South Africa, Wellcome Trust, Innovate UK, Leverhulme Trust, Flemish
 Research Council, Austrian Science Fund, National Research Foundation, South Africa,


                                                                                                Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Netherlands Institute for Advanced Study in the Humanities & Social Sciences and Icelandic
 Research Fund.

 Conference Keynotes and Invited Lectures
 Invitations to deliver keynotes evidence the esteem Unit staff and their research are held in.
 Selected examples include:
 • Meskimmon convened the 43rd Annual Conference of the Association for Art History
     (AAH) at Loughborough University, 2017. AAH is the largest organisation of art historians in
     the UK and the three-day conference attracted c.400 delegates and 200 presentations and
     was their most diverse in terms of presenters and participants.
 • Invited lectures were delivered at Curating Everything: Curating as Symptom, Migros
     Museum für Gegenwartskunst (Meskimmon, Zurich, 2015), International Association of
     Art Critics Annual Conference (Robinson, Havana, 2016), International Gender Studies
     Centre (Robinson, University of Oxford, 2018, Universidade Nova de Lisboa 2019) and Abu
     Dhabi Art Fair (Brown, 2018).
 • Colleagues gave keynote lectures at world-leading design conferences such as the
     International Association of Societies of Design Research (de Bont, Manchester 2019),
     International Conference on Engineering Design (Bhamra, Delft, 2019), 2nd International
     Conference on Healthcare Communication (Dong, Shanghai, 2015), International Forum
     on Innovation & Emerging Industries Development (Dong, Shanghai 2018) and Direct
     Digital Manufacturing (Bibb, Berlin 2016).
 • In human factors our world leading research has been recognised with invitations from the
     American College of Sports Medicine Elsworth R. Buskirk Lecture (Havenith 2015).

 Editorial Leadership
 Loughborough academics shape their respective research fields by serving on the editorial
 boards of leading human factors ergonomics and safety journals. As Editor in Chief of
 Ergonomics Haslam R introduced major changes including increasing the diversity of 8 Senior
 Editors and encouraging content from Asia and Americas. He appointed Early Career Editors
 identified as future leaders (including Lloyd), a social media editor to increase visibility and
 commissioned State of Science Review papers from world-leading academics. Four colleagues
 served on the editorial board (Cain, Havenith, Hignett, Waterson). For Applied Ergonomics
 Hodder is a Scientific Editor with four staff on the International Editorial Board (Filtness, Fray,
 Gyi, Waterson). Havenith was Editor of European Journal of Applied Physiology 2014-19 and
 remains on the editorial board and is on editorial boards of Journal of Sports Engineering &
 Technology, International Journal of Biometeorology and Journal for Occupational Safety
 & Ergonomics. Jun was Associate Editor of BMC Health Service Research 2014-17.
 Frampton is Associate Editor of Traffic Injury Prevention.

 Six colleagues serve on leading design journal editorial boards. Downs is Co-Editor of Journal
 of Visual Political Communication with Van Der Waarde on the editorial board. Kuzmina is
 Associate Editor of She Ji the Journal of Design, Economics & Innovation with three staff on
 the editorial board (Bhamra, de Bont, Van Der Waarde). Colleagues serve in editorial boards for
 Design Studies (Bhamra), Design Journal (Evans), Journal of Design, Business & Society
 (de Bont) Design for Health (Zitkus), International Journal of Design (de Bont) and Journal
 of Textile Design Research & Practice (Bhamra).

 In digital design and fabrication, Campbell is Editor of Rapid Prototyping Journal and Bibb is
 on the editorial board. Bibb is also on the editorial board of the International Journal of
 Bioprinting and Mohammed is on the editorial board of HardwareX.

 In the arts, Wells is Founding Editor of Animation Practice, Process and Production. The
 TRACEY Drawing and Visualisation Research was founded by Loughborough academics and
 edited by Harty, Marshall, Downs and Selby. Bernabei is a Senior and Founding Editor of the
 Journal of Jewellery Research. As Chief Editor of Journal of Visual Art Practice from 2017,
 Richardson extended the scope to include galleries, museums and collectives, recognising the
 global professionalisation of curation, arts administration and the topicality of the art market,

                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 auctions and biennales. Meskimmon is Consultant Editor for Open Arts Journal and her
 appointment to the Editorial Board of Art History (the Journal of the Association for Art History)
 has been part of a change towards decolonising the discipline by a new Editorial Team from
 2017. Robinson was on the editorial board of the Art Journal (2012–2016) and Brown was
 Editor at Large for H-France (2016–20). Whiteley is an Editor of Art and the Public Sphere.

 Our academics influence and encourage new research trajectories by editing leading
 international book series including Rethinking Art’s Histories, which has generated more than
 40 titles over a decade, (Manchester University Press, Meskimmon); Contextualizing Art
 Markets (Bloomsbury, Brown) and Radical Aesthetics Radical Art, (Bloomsbury, Whiteley). In
 2013, Meskimmon and Marshall and Sawdon (since left) addressed the gap in drawing research
 by launching the interdisciplinary book series Drawing In, (Bloomsbury since 2018), which has
 proved remarkably successful with 5 books published, 2 under contract, 2 under review and 7
 proposals pending.

 Since 2014, 15 staff were invited Editors of 21 Special Issues for journals including
 Ergonomics; Applied Ergonomics; IISE Transactions on Occupational Ergonomics & Human
 Factors; Safety; International Journal of Crashworthiness; Sustainability; International Journal of
 Sustainable Engineering; Information Design Journal; Art, Design & Communication in Higher
 Education; Journal of Screenwriting; Studies in Costume & Performance and the Journal of
 Research Practice.

 Prizes
 Our excellence and esteem are evidenced by significant national and international accolades.
 • In 2016, working with The Fruitmarket Gallery, Donachie won the highly prestigious inaugural
     Freelands Award for mid-career female artists worth £100,000.
 • At the 2017 International Conference on Research in Design (ICoRD, Guwahati, India) de
     Bont was awarded the Pahl-Beitz ICONNN Award for outstanding contribution to design
     education and design research.
 • Wells received the Outstanding Achievement in Animation Studies award at Animafest
     International Festival of World Animation, Zagreb (2018).
 • Atkin’s sculptures won awards including Excellent Award for large-scale stainless-steel
     sculpture at the International Sculpture Exhibition 2015, Fuzhou, China. In 2018 Bolewski
     was awarded Prix VIDEOFORMES, Conseil Départemental du Puy-de-Dôme.
 • TSRC achieved two prestigious Prince Michael of Kent Awards for Road Safety for
     SafetyCube and SaferAfrica (2019).
 • Frampton was awarded the Don Huelke Lifetime Award for Services & Achievements to
     Traffic Safety (2019) by the Association for the Advancement of Automotive Medicine.
 • Acar contributed to Trafik Hayattir (a project to improve transport safety for Pregnant women
     and Children) which won Turkey’s prestigious Gold Compass prize in 2016.

 Recognition of our leadership in human factors is evidenced by the fact that Loughborough
 Design School received the Chartered Institute for Ergonomics and Human Factors (CIEHF)
 President’s Award 2017 in recognition of the School’s unique contributions to the discipline.

 Individual prestigious CIEHF awards include Lifetime Achievement Award 2019 Hignett and
 2017 Haslam R; Innovation Award 2014 Waterson. PGR Ruby Allen won Best Student Project
 Award 2016. Haslam R received the International Ergonomics Association Distinguished
 Service Award 2018.




                                                                                             Page 22
