Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Canterbury Christ Church University (CCCU)

 Unit of Assessment: 28. History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Unit has a clearly defined strategy supporting growth in research capacity and fostering a
 culture of research, generating high-quality outputs, grant income, and strong impact beyond
 academia. Since 2014, Research and Enterprise Support Funds (RESF) funds (our combined QR
 and HEIF fund, see REF5a: 4.2) have been used to support research and impact generation
 activities via staffing, professional development activities, research expenses, targeted study
 leave and teaching remission, PGR support and development, pilot projects and pump-priming of
 funding bids. This has led to growth in external grant income and PGR recruitment and
 completions since 2014, the publication of a suite of high-quality outputs, and generation of
 significant impact. The Unit comprises 3 Professors, 1 Reader, 1 Principal Lecturer, 8 Senior
 Lecturers, 2 Lecturers and 1 Principal Research Fellow encompassing research in: History;
 Archaeology; and American Studies. The Unit is located within the School of Humanities
 (established in 2015), and research activity is supported by a School-wide Research, Knowledge
 Exchange and Postgraduate Studies Committee. The creation of the School, the co-location of
 subject teams in newly-renovated facilities, and the opening of new facilities in the £12M Daphne
 Oram Building (see REF5a:4.2) have facilitated the open sharing of research approaches,
 interests and contacts, and assisted in the development of shared research outputs and projects.
 The Unit’s areas of research encompass: medieval and early modern studies; archaeology;
 twentieth-century history and conflict (including race relations in North America); and regional
 histories, identities and communities. The Unit has a long and established track record of working
 with non-academic audiences and users, and its research has proven valuable to charities, civic
 and community groups, government institutions, history and archaeological societies, local tourism
 providers, museums and heritage organisations, the media, schools, the general public, policy-
 makers and politicians, in local, national and international settings.

 The Unit has built on its achievements since REF 2014 by: growing Archaeology; supporting and
 enhancing grant applications and producing a greater number of high-quality research outputs
 through targeted support and rigorous peer review; developing research networks; increasing its
 numbers of research students; and enabling impact via its proactive engagement with a diverse
 range of non-academic beneficiaries. The success of these strategies is demonstrated through
 the successful delivery of key projects and a 73% increase in external research grant income from
 £270,125 in REF 2014 to £468,206 in REF 2021. Staff within the Unit actively support a culture of
 research integrity. It adheres closely to the University’s Research Governance and Ethics
 Framework, which ensures that academic research by staff and students is carried out according
 to appropriate ethical, legal and professional standards. Hicks serves as the Unit’s representative
 on the Faculty Research Ethics Committee, and the School of Humanities’ Research, Knowledge
 Exchange and Postgraduate Studies Committee maintains a watching brief over the conduct of
 academic research at subject level.

 In the Unit’s submission for REF 2014, the following strategic priorities were identified, building on
 those from RAE 2008: (1) supporting all staff to have significant responsibility for independent
 research (SRIR); (2) successfully increasing collaboration in funded research; (3) the strategic use
 of research leave and remission from teaching; (4) support and development of early career
 researchers; (5) development of digital online research resources; (6) the development of new

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research centres; and (7) development of a legacy project for research already undertaken at
 Folkestone.

 The Unit has achieved these strategic aims in the following ways:
 (1) All academic staff within the Unit have significant responsibility for independent research and
 have been submitted to this REF. RESF funds and grant income are used to support research
 activities. Professors and Readers actively mentor Senior Lecturers, Lecturers and Research
 Fellows, supporting them in developing new research projects and initiatives, in bidding for
 external research funding, and sponsoring them in gaining external recognition for their research
 and for public engagement activities. The introduction of annual research interviews for all
 members of academic staff in 2015, at which research plans, external engagement activities and
 opportunities for local, national and international partnerships are discussed, has enhanced the
 research and impact focus of the Unit and provides opportunities for formal mentoring. Senior
 members of staff, for example, have sponsored colleagues for external academic fellowships,
 enabling Hicks, Hitchcock and Prince to secure election as Fellows of the Royal Historical Society
 since 2014, whilst Hicks supported Seaman in the development of his successful British Academy-
 funded small grant.

 (2) The Unit has benefited from increasing its collaboration in funded research, knowledge
 exchange, and community engagement projects. The number and quality of grant applications
 have grown leading to successful bids, including: Hardy and Williams’s HLF-funded Finding
 Eanswythe (2017-20); Seaman’s AHRC-funded Manifestations of Empire: Paleoenvironmental
 Analysis and the End of Roman Britain (2017-19); and his British Academy/Leverhulme-funded
 Reconstructing a Welsh Medieval Landscape (2014-16); Hennessey’s British Academy/
 Leverhulme-funded survey of the Ulster Unionist Party (2015-16); and Williams’s AHRC-funded
 Shifting Sands: Kentish Coastal Heritage and Communities in Transition (2020-24).

 (3) The Unit continued to operate a sabbatical scheme and deployed strategic remission from
 teaching to facilitate periods of intensive research activity. The use of study leave has led to a high
 number of significant works, evidenced by the number of publications in REF2 that are double
 weighted, and the development of project funding applications, including Williams’s participation
 in the British Museum-funded Amara West project.

 (4) The Unit has continued to invest in its future capacity through the strategic recruitment and
 support of ECRs via the appointments of seven new lecturers that have expanded and enforced
 areas of research excellence within the Unit: Rohl (1FTE, 2014; Roman history and archaeology);
 Ingate (0.5FTE, 2019; replacing Rohl after he transferred to another HEI); Williams (1FTE, 2016;
 medieval archaeology and Osteoarchaeology); Goodrum (1FTE, 2014, twentieth-century cultural
 historian); Watts (1FTE, 2016, twentieth-century conflict historian); Legal-Miller (1FTE, 2017,
 American History and Culture); and Budgen (1FTE, 2019 twentieth-century historian).

 (5) The Unit contributed to the creation of major digital, open-access online resources via its
 provision of content for the AHRC-funded Magna Carta Project, which provided the first clause-
 by-clause commentary of Magna Carta for more than a century, and Seaman’s British Academy-
 funded Reconstructing a Welsh Medieval Landscape dataset.

 (6) The Unit established a new centre for research and impact generation. The Centre for Kent
 History and Heritage (CKHH) was established in 2014 to enhance the Unit’s research
 concentration on regional histories, identities and communities, and to facilitate public history

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 partnerships and projects. This strategy was supported by the appointment of Sweetinburgh (0.5
 FTE; an internationally recognised authority on the history and heritage of medieval Kent) in 2016
 as a Principal Research Fellow and Dr Paul Bennett (Director of Canterbury Archaeological Trust)
 as Visiting Professor. These appointments have enhanced the Unit’s engagement with ‘locality’
 and its ‘embeddedness in the local community’ for which it was commended in REF 2014 (see
 also REF5a:2.2). The Centre has provided a major mechanism for enabling and achieving impact
 by the Unit. Since 2016, the Centre has also hosted 26 public lectures, 4 study days, 7 workshops,
 3 exhibitions, and 13 conferences in partnership with 19 national, regional and local organisations,
 including the Canterbury Archaeological Trust, the Canterbury Business Improvement District, English
 Heritage, the Turner Contemporary in Margate, and the University of Kent. The Centre has also
 established a postgraduate seminar, a series of postgraduate master-classes held at Canterbury
 Cathedral Archives and Library, and a postgraduate prize fund as a means of fostering research
 into Kent’s regional history, heritage, archaeology and geography. It has become a major hub for
 research, and a conduit for the creation of multidisciplinary projects, including Richborough
 Gateways (RESF-funded with involvement from English Heritage and interdisciplinary
 collaborations between colleagues from History, Archaeology, English Literature and Creative
 Writing) and the HLF-funded Finding Eanswythe.

 (7) The Unit successfully secured a legacy project for the HLF-funded A Town Unearthed:
 Folkestone before 1500, documented in REF 2014. Hardy and Williams secured funding of
 £114,127 from the HLF and other organisations for Finding Eanswythe: The Life and Afterlife of
 an Anglo-Saxon Saint (2017-2020), a multidisciplinary research and community engagement
 project.

 (8) The Unit successfully fosters interdisciplinary research. Strategic use of RESF funding to
 support staff with research interests intersect with different disciplines: Hicks initiated a series of
 annual international panels at the International Medieval Congress on literary, environmental and
 historical landscapes and seascapes involving archaeologists, English Literature specialists,
 creative writers, and geographers. RESF funding has also facilitated Prince’s role as co-convenor
 of the University of London’s Irish Studies Seminar. This has been central to developing a ‘Dealing
 with the Past consortium’, a network of historians and social scientists to deliver projects promised
 by the Stormont House Agreement and reaffirmed in New Decade, New Approach in January
 2020. Interdisciplinary work on Northern Ireland political parties will continue with a project on the
 cross-community Alliance Party. CKHH has strong local links (such as the Kent Archaeological
 Society, Canterbury Archaeological Trust, Canterbury Historical and Archaeological Society), with
 particular strengths in Medieval and Early Modern research. Managed by Co-Directors from
 History and English, it provides a further mechanism to bring together researchers from across
 the School. Additionally, collaborative funded projects such as Finding Eanswythe saw Hardy and
 Williams working with colleagues from English Literature, the School of Psychology and Life
 Sciences, and the School of Creative Arts and Industries.

 (9) The Unit continues to progress towards an open access research environment. All academic
 staff and research students use Research Space, CCCU’s institutional repository (see
 REF5a:2.3). Moreover, the Unit sought to go beyond minimal requirements and members,
 including Seaman, Williams and Hardy, have published outputs in ‘Gold’ open access venues.
 Major open access datasets, such as Seaman’s British Academy/Leverhulme-funded
 Reconstructing a Welsh Medieval Landscape (hosted by the Archaeological Data Service) and
 Wilkinson’s Magna Carta Project have also been made freely-available online.


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2020-25: Future Strategy
 Building on achievements in this census period, we will further develop expertise in medieval, early
 modern studies and prehistoric archaeology, whilst also developing School research priorities
 focused on sustainability and marginalised communities. The Unit will enhance the professional
 development opportunities offered to early and mid-career researchers in formulating collaborative
 research projects and funding applications. Working in collaboration with the University’s support
 infrastructures (see REF5a) the Unit will develop new opportunities for external postgraduate
 funding, collaboration in research grants, and enhancing external collaborative arrangements for
 research student training. We will also capitalise on significant infrastructure developments on the
 Canterbury campus, including state-of-the-art facilities in the Daphne Oram building (opened
 2019) and the specialist STEM building (opened 2021) with an investment of £77M for both (see
 REF5a:4.2) to expand and enhance research capacity and impact activities.

 Approach to Impact
 The Unit’s main strategic foci for impact have been education; heritage interpretation, engagement
 and understanding; and provision of historical perspectives to inform contemporary policy. This
 has primarily been achieved by the development and maintenance of strong partnerships and
 networks, a commitment to community engagement, and externally funded projects with a clear
 impact agenda.

 Schools and education
 Impact in this area has been facilitated by Eales serving as a Trustee and Council Member of the
 Historical Association (HA) from 2014 to 2020, and as its President from May 2011 to May 2014.
 Hicks and Wilkinson published essays in the HA’s secondary education volume Exploring and
 Teaching Medieval History (2018), which was distributed to all secondary schools in England. As
 part of the impact programme for the AHRC funded The Magna Carta Project, Wilkinson worked
 with the HA’s national education officer, Melanie Jones, to develop resources for Key Stage 2.
 This experience paved the way for Wilkinson’s Key Stage 3 resources on Magna Carta, produced
 in collaboration with CCCU’s Outreach Team, of which 2,000 copies (pre-order of 1600) were
 distributed to 45 Kent schools. During 2019, Wilkinson’s research was also utilised for a series of
 workshops with Kent schools by the CKHH (REF3: ICS28.01). Members of the Unit also regularly
 address school audiences across the UK. For example, Eales, Ruane and Wilkinson have all
 addressed teachers at the national HA Annual Conference and Ruane has been involved with the
 national Churchill Archives for Schools Project. Sibbesson developed a Key Stage 2 educational
 resource on the Stone Age in response to inquiries for support from teachers, following changes
 to the National Curriculum in 2014. The freely available resource has been downloaded over 1000
 times and its use was commended in the Ofsted report for one of its early adopters. As part of
 Finding Eanswythe (see below) nearly 500 local school children between the ages of 7-11,
 participated in project workshops combining story-telling, object handling and drama to bring a
 greater understanding of the history and heritage of their town.

 Heritage interpretation, engagement and understanding
 The Heritage Lottery funded Finding Eanswythe (Hardy/Williams) was a community-based project
 which investigated the history and heritage associated with St Eanswythe, an Anglo Saxon
 Princess and patron saint of Folkestone. Here, the local community worked in collaboration with
 academics, heritage professionals and other specialists, to ensure the nationally important
 heritage associated with Eanswythe was better understood, interpreted and cared for. A key aim
 was to increase understanding and awareness of Folkestone’s significant, but largely overlooked,
 early heritage. Embedded in the project was a significant public engagement programme;

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ultimately reaching in excess of 3,500 individuals through over 80 activities and projects including
 workshops, large public events, talks, walks and excavations. A special focus was placed on
 young people to promote their understanding of their heritage environment, including substantial
 engagement with local schools and a ‘Young Curators’ project. People Before Us (a strand of
 Finding Eanswythe) not only facilitated community engagement with heritage, but also
 demonstrated the health and well-being benefits of slow paced and accessible heritage projects
 for participants. A graveyard survey, over 15 days, attracted formal and informal participants
 including: military veterans, students, members from ARRCC (a local wellbeing charity), Kent
 Refugee Action Network, Porchlight (a Kent charity for the homeless and vulnerable), and many
 local residents. This emphasis on community engagement with local heritage is also reflected in
 work with the City of Canterbury’s Medieval Pageant (Wilkinson – REF 3: ICS28.01) and the
 extensive programme of public engagement activities of the Centre for Kent History and Heritage.

 Policy impact
 The Unit enabled impact nationally and internationally via Hennessey and Prince’s roles in
 advising and influencing policy makers in Northern Ireland (REF3: ICS28.02). Their twin research
 expertise in constructing fresh accounts of the conflict based on new archival material and studying
 how the Troubles have been socially remembered makes them well placed to advise politicians
 and external stakeholders on ‘dealing with the past’. This is one of the pillars of the peace process
 that still remains to be built. An example of influence is their successful advocation for the
 importance of historic analysis in addressing legacy issues which changed political policy and
 thinking within the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) (REF3: ICS28.02). Additionally, in 2016
 Hennessey was appointed to a new Northern Ireland executive commission on Flags, Identity,
 Culture and Tradition (FICT). Work with FICT, led to the DUP approaching Hennessey to
 contribute thinking on cultural policy which was ultimately reflected in the UK and Irish
 Governments’ New Decade, New Approach (NDNA) document which restored devolution in
 Northern Ireland in 2020 (REF3: ICS28.02).

 To further enhance the impact of its research in the next REF census period the Unit will build on
 existing areas of strengths, such as Hennessey and Prince’s work related to legacy issues in
 Northern Ireland. As part of the ‘Dealing with the Past consortium’, a network of historians and
 social scientists, they will aim to bid for and deliver projects promised by the Stormont House
 Agreement. We will identify and support new areas of potential impact, by identifying beneficiaries
 for our research and developing projects in partnership with them. This will help to ensure that our
 research is relevant and of value to potential users. We will encourage staff to consider impact
 objectives and evaluation at all stages of the research process, recognising the potential this has
 to maximise the impact of our work. Further support for dissemination will be provided to enable
 our staff to reach the most relevant audiences for their research. As part of this, the Unit will
 increase the use of digital tools and methods in research and will evolve its interdisciplinary work
 to draw on strengths in visualisation and animation in the Faculty.

 2. People

 i. Staffing strategy and staff development
 During the census period, the Unit has continued to build on its strengths in recruiting staff to
 replace those who have retired or transferred to other HEIs. Two members of staff retired (Hipkin
 and Eales); 9 others (Hitchmough, Long, Plath, Rohl, Witham, Wolfson, Lafferty, Grummitt, and
 Wilkinson) transferred to other universities; and Hardy and Sibbesson left academia. During the
 period 7 ECRs were appointed to replace departing staff. This has strengthened and focused

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research capacity: the number of Archaeologists submitted within the UoA has grown from 1fte to
 2.5fte; new full-time appointments have supported the validation of an interdisciplinary BA and MA
 in Medieval and Early Modern Studies, a BA and PhD in Archaeology, and an MA in Modern
 History. On the census date the Unit comprises 3 archaeologists (2.5 FTE), 3 medieval historians
 (2.5 FTE), 2 early modern historians (1.8 FTE) and 9 modern/contemporary historians (9 FTE). All
 hold permanent contracts.

 Building on its achievements in the last research cycle, the Unit maintained its successful strategy
 of supporting and mentoring new and existing staff to develop and sustain their research careers
 leading to publications, external grant bids and conference attendance. Research and Enterprise
 Support Funding (RESF) funds have been allocated for CPD and researcher development,
 including remission from teaching, the development of training workshops, and support for the set-
 up of networks and conferences. RESF-funded research leave and participation in conferences
 and networking events was crucial in supporting Hitchcock to initiate, complete and co-edit The
 Routledge History of Poverty, 1500-1800. All new members of staff serve a nine-months’ probation
 and have senior members of the Unit assigned to be their mentors for research and impact
 facilitating activities. Early and mid-career scholars are actively encouraged to pursue research
 and impact-generation alongside more experienced academics where there are obvious research
 synergies: Williams brought her expertise to Hardy’s HLF-funded Finding Eanswythe project. All
 new members of staff receive PGR supervisor development training from the Graduate College,
 paired with experienced supervisors on doctoral students’ panels to learn from them and gain
 practical supervision skills. This strategy helped 3 members of the Unit obtain Experienced
 Supervisor status (Hicks, Wolfson, and Prince). ECRs participate in research development training
 provided at University, Faculty, and School level, and are encouraged to develop their academic
 citizenship and research profiles through involvement in national and international subject
 committees and societies. The Unit’s support for ECRs is demonstrated by Seaman’s successful
 application to the AHRC Early Career Research Grant scheme.

 We play a leading role in formulating research and impact strategies more widely within the
 University at CCCU. Eales served as Faculty Director of Research from 2011 to 2019. Hennessey
 was Director of Research for the School of Humanities (2015 to 2020), and Hicks is Director of
 Postgraduate studies (2017 to 2020), leading on research student provision. Hennessey and Hicks
 sit on the Faculty of Arts and Humanities’ Research Committee. Each member of staff has an
 annual appraisal carried out by the Head of School or senior member of staff with line management
 responsibility. Annual research interviews are carried out by the School Director of Research, at
 which research plans are discussed, annual objectives are reviewed from the previous year and
 set for the coming year. This allows for the effective identification of personal development needs,
 enabling the appropriate training to be planned and implemented. Researcher development
 initiatives are run at School, Faculty, and University level. For the current research cycle these
 included: bid-writing master classes; workshops on small grants, first steps in publishing, and open
 access publishing; and training on PGR supervision and media awareness. RESF funds were
 deployed to support bespoke training requirements identified through annual research interviews.
 For example, Seaman undertook training in radiocarbon dating that directly contributed to two
 successful applications to the National Environmental Isotope Facility.

 CCCU has a clear and transparent annual process for academic promotions. Wilkinson was
 promoted to Professor (2014); Sibbesson (2015), Goodrum (2015), Hitchcock (2015), Wolfson



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (2015), Rohl (2016), Watts (2017), Williams (2020) to Senior Lecturer; and Hicks to Reader (2019),
 following internal and, in the case of Readers and Professors, external scrutiny processes.

 All staff are allocated hours for research and impact activities within CCCU’s annual workload
 planning profiling (REF5a: 3.1). The expectation is staff spend one day a week on research. The
 Unit operated a transparent system of research/impact leave during the census period, whereby
 staff were eligible to apply for semester-long periods of study leave. Applications were judged on
 their merits and strategic fit by members of the School Research Committee. Research leaves are
 usually timed within any given academic year so that they fit in with individuals’ personal research
 timetables to facilitate the completion of publications and projects or the initiation of new ones.
 Strategic remission from teaching is deployed to facilitate periods of research intensive activity.
 Study leave and teaching remission are facilitated through RESF funds, grant income, and smart
 programme design. These strategies have contributed directly to the Unit’s growth in external
 grant income and the publication of quality outputs, including double-weighted monographs and
 major peer-reviewed articles: e.g. teaching remission was used to support the development of
 Hardy’s HLF-funded Finding Eanswythe and Hennessey’s British Academy/Leverhulme-funded
 survey of the Ulster Unionist Party. Study leave supported the completion of monographs by Long
 (The CIA and the Soviet Bloc), Ruane (Churchill and the Bomb in War and Cold War) and Bulaitis
 (Maurice Thorez: A Biography), as well as articles by Seaman, Sibbesson, Prince, Hicks, Wolfson,
 Grummitt, and Dalton.

 The Centre for Kent History and Heritage (CKHH) appointed Dr Paul Bennett (2016-present) as a
 Visiting Professor with expertise in public-facing history, heritage-consultancy, and archaeology.
 The Centre is home to a Visiting Research Fellow, Dr Gillian Draper, and to a further 8 Associate
 Fellows: Dr Jane Andrews; Dr Elizabeth Edwards; Dr Lorraine Flisher; Dr Doreen Rosman; Dr
 Valerie Newall; Mary-Jane Pamphilon; Dr Susan Pitman; and Dr John Williams. All Visiting and
 Associate Fellows collaborate in the Centre’s research and public engagement initiatives.

 ii. Research students
 The Unit has seen significant growth in PGT and PGR provision and support since 2014, including
 the validation of a PhD in Archaeology and MAs in Medieval and Early Modern and Modern
 History. The Unit successfully secured external and internal funding for PhDs, and PGT and PGR
 registrations and completions increased. 29 students have completed Master’s degrees by
 Research and doctoral completions have increased from 7 to 10. A Director of Postgraduate
 Studies was created in 2017 and University-level support for research students was enhanced
 through the newly constituted Graduate College, its Researcher Development Programme of
 training activities and expended study space for research students (REF5a: 3.3). The enhanced
 progression, development, and retention of research students was supported through a series of
 new initiatives instigated by the School Director of Postgraduate Studies, including: a monthly
 critical reading group, external peer mentoring and a programme of workshops.

 Many PGRs are supervised by interdisciplinary teams. Hicks, Goodrum and Wilkinson, for
 instance, served on supervisory teams in English Literature, Archaeology or Media. The research
 specialisms play a useful role in attracting postgraduate students, especially in medieval history
 and archaeology, with 16 registered doctoral research students, 1 MPhil student and 6 MA by
 Research students during the current cycle supervised by panels comprised of medievalists. To
 recruit research students the Graduate College issues an open call for applications within and
 beyond the institution. The Unit has successfully made strategic use of its MA by Research and
 its taught MAs as tools to train and assist in the recruitment of prospective new doctoral research

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students. Each year, doctoral candidates apply for three years’ full funding (fees and maintenance)
 as part of the University’s competitive and externally advertised doctoral scholarship scheme.
 Scholarships have targeted PhD studies to particular areas of focus. Between 2014 and 2020, 8
 doctoral students (Connell, Kersey, Armstrong, Van Tongeren, Hawker-Yates, Irwin, Duffy,
 Burrows; 4 male and 4 female) received full university scholarships. The Unit has also made
 strategic use of internally funded fee-waivers for PhD students. The Unit has been successful in
 securing funding from external bodies as part of collaborative programmes of research: eg Rohl
 secured match-funding from Historic Scotland for a collaborative PhD focused on the Antonine
 Wall, whilst Williams was successful in developing a 4-year AHRC-funded collaborative doctorial
 award in partnership with Museum of London Archaeology.

 The Graduate College runs the University’s Researcher Development Programme, to which Unit
 staff and external experts (such as Dr Paul Dryburgh, principal medieval records specialist at The
 National Archives) contribute a range of sessions in key research approaches, skills (e.g.
 palaeography), and academic writing. Every PGR student completes an annual ‘Training Needs
 Analysis and Development Plan’, reflecting on their current skills, identifying gaps in their
 knowledge, and recognising/planning areas for future development in discussion with their
 supervisory panel. These plans are reviewed and refreshed each year to meet the changing needs
 of postgraduate students. In addition, PGRs are encouraged to attend the monthly reading group
 run by Hicks and Prince and seminar for research students and staff of the CKHH. Staff also run
 specialist events for research student professional development: Hicks ran a workshop on aspects
 of publishing in 2018 and Wilkinson organised a master class in 2019 led by Professor Rekha
 Pande, Head of the Centre for Women’s Studies at Hyderabad University, India. PGRs are offered
 opportunities to present their research to one another, and to hear external academic speakers at
 different stages in their careers at the long-standing History research seminar. It is a measure of
 the vitality of the CCCU History seminar that in 2017, it received a grant of £250 from the Royal
 Historical Society to fund visits from two ECR scholars from other institutions during which they
 presented papers at the seminar and led the postgraduate reading group.

 All students in receipt of CCCU doctoral scholarships receive an annual grant of £500 towards
 research expenses. In addition, PGRs who are not the recipients of University scholarships are
 able to apply to Faculty funds for research grants each academic year. All research students
 working on Kent history and archaeology topics are eligible to apply to the CKHH’s Ian Coulson
 Memorial Postgraduate Award fund, which since its inception in 2016 has awarded 14 grants
 ranging from £500 to £3,500. Furthermore, PGRs are actively encouraged to seek external funding
 for archival research trips, conference attendance and conference organisation. During the census
 period, PGRs have secured small grants from the Royal Historical Society (Armstrong, 2016,
 2017; Billaud, 2014, 2017), the Jewish Historical Society of England (Irwin, 2017), and the
 European Association of Jewish Studies (Irwin, 2018).

 PGRs are prepared for their postdoctoral careers by being actively mentored to address
 conferences and research seminars at other institutions across Europe. Research students have
 delivered papers at international conferences held at the Universities of Cambridge, Dublin,
 Belfast, Glasgow, Leeds, London, Swansea, York, Bucharest, Krakow, Rome, Notre Dame
 (Indiana) and St Mary’s College (Minneapolis), among others. Staff have mentored research
 students in organising and hosting their own international conferences. In 2017, Wilkinson
 mentored Armstrong and Kersey when they organised ‘Family and Power in the Middle Ages’, and



                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in 2019, Hicks mentored Liebelt when she organised ‘Negotiating Power in the Early Middle Ages’,
 as part of the Northern/Early Medieval Interdisciplinary Conference Series.

 The quality of the PGR provision within the Unit is demonstrated by its strong track-record of
 graduates successfully entering research positions: Armstrong secured a four-year post-doctoral
 position at Heidelberg University; Kersey secured a permanent position in research and innovation
 support at CCCU; and Hannon holds a senior role in the AOC Archaeology Group. PGRs have
 also published in peer-reviewed edited books and journals.

 iii. Equality and diversity
 The staff gender balance for the Unit’s Faculty of Arts & Humanities, submitted REF 2021, has
 increased since 2014. In REF 2014 the staff ratio was 57.5% male/42% female; staff with
 Significant Responsibility for Independent Research (SRIR) submitted to REF 2021 is now 54.3%
 male/45.7% female. CCCU has been an Athena SWAN Charter Member since 2015, and attained
 an institutional bronze award in November 2016. Staff within the Unit formed part of a School of
 Humanities submission for an Athena SWAN Bronze award granted in April 2020. Goodrum,
 Grummitt, Hicks, Legal-Miller and Sweetinburgh, and Duffy (a postgraduate representative) all
 served on the School team. Since REF 2014 new staff appointments in the Unit have improved its
 gender balance and employment of staff with protected characteristics. In REF 2014, the
 male/female ratio was 1:2.5; for REF 2021, it is 1:2. In REF 2014 the Unit’s White/BAME ratio
 was 1:13, the ratio is now 1:8 (above the sector average of less than 1% for university-based
 History staff, according to the Royal Historical Society’s 2018 survey). The Unit is also informing
 national discussions on inclusivity. In 2019, Ledwidge delivered the keynote lecture on ‘BME Early
 Career Researchers’ at the 3 rd BME Early Career Conference at the University of East London.

 All staff involved in the recruitment panels for colleagues and research students have received
 University training in equal opportunities, diversity and inclusion, and unconscious bias, as have
 all staff with line management, appraisal and supervisory responsibilities. All staff are eligible to
 request flexible working once they have a minimum of 26 weeks’ continuous service, in line with
 University policy. It reflects the Unit’s commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion that career
 pathways for fixed-term staff mirror those of full-time staff. Eight fixed-term ECR appointments
 were made permanent during the current cycle – Rohl, Goodrum, Hitchcock, Lafferty, Legal-Miller,
 Sibbesson, Wolfson and Williams. 18 members of staff have benefitted from at least one sabbatical
 semester since 2014. The Unit also adheres to University policy in helping staff who have returned
 from long-term illness, via meetings, Occupational Health assessments, phased returns to work
 and reduced teaching, research and administrative workloads. The University and Unit are
 committed to supporting staff with disabilities, and participate in the Disability Confident Scheme
 encouraging people with disabilities to apply to work here. In line with UK equality legislation, the
 University positively and proactively makes reasonable adjustments to ensure members of staff
 and students with disabilities have the same access to everything needed to do their jobs and
 undertake research as non-disabled people. Specialist equipment, for instance, has been
 purchased for Unit staff via the University’s central fund for reasonable adjustments and via the
 government’s access to work scheme. The Unit’s approach to supporting the wellbeing of its staff
 and research students is informed by the University’s central Mental Health and Wellbeing
 Framework, which aims to ‘create a mentally healthy environment and a compassionate,
 empowering, cohesive and inclusive community’. Specialist staff development training is offered
 to staff on mental health awareness and supporting colleagues and students experiencing mental
 health difficulties. Hicks represents the Unit in CCCU Mental Health Framework discussions.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Unit staff are strongly encouraged and supported to seek external funding and benefits in kind to
 generate income for research and impact activities. The Unit recorded research funding of
 £270,125 in REF 2014, a further £374,719 of external research grants and £114,127 of knowledge
 exchange income were awarded to projects during the current cycle. Colleagues have been
 encouraged to partner up with institutions as a research strategy. The largest single award was
 £252,606 from the AHRC to Seaman (PI) for his major project - Manifestations of Empire:
 Palaeoenvironmental Analysis and the End of Roman Britain (2017-19). Members of the Unit have
 also obtained funding awards from the: British Academy/Leverhulme Trust (Small Grant Scheme)
 for the Ulster Unionist Party Membership Survey; Heritage Lottery Fund Finding Eanswythe;
 National Environmental Isotope Facility (funded through NERC); Roger De Haan Trust; Society of
 Antiquaries of London; Historic Scotland; Cambrian Archaeological Association; Institute for
 Bioarchaeology at the British Museum; Marc Fitch Fund; Royal Historical Society; TORCH Mellon
 Fund; Society for Renaissance Studies; Scouloudi Foundation (Institute of Historical Research);
 Canterbury Historical and Archaeological Society; Women’s History Network; William and Edith
 Oldham Charitable Trust; Monmouthshire Antiquarian Society; Vale of Glamorgan Council;
 Society for Medieval Archaeology; and Kent Archaeological Society.

 Wilkinson continued in her role as Co-I on the AHRC-funded Magna Carta Project (2012-15), a
 collaboration with Professor Nicholas Vincent (UEA), Professor David Carpenter (King’s College
 London) and Professor Paul Brand (All Souls, Oxford). Hardy was PI on the major community
 archaeology, public history and heritage project, Finding Eanswythe, which secured a grant of
 £93,500 from the Heritage Lottery Fund, together with additional financial support from the Roger
 De Haan Charitable Trust, Folkestone Town Council, Kent County Council, Rochester Bridge
 Trust, and A Town Unearthed’s Legacy Fund. Hennessey was PI on the British
 Academy/Leverhulme Small Grant scheme for the Ulster Unionist Party Membership Survey and
 Co-I on the ESRC-funded project on Dissident Irish Republican Organisations. Seaman was PI
 on the British Academy/Leverhulme Small Grant scheme for Reconstructing a Welsh Medieval
 Landscape.

 All applications are supported by the University’s Research and Innovation Funding Unit (RIFU).
 Successful grant holders actively advise and mentor ECRs and all applications undergo internal
 and external peer review and scrutiny prior to submission. RIFU issues regular funding bulletins
 and shares models of good practice across the institution. Strategic use has been made of RESF
 funding devolved to the Unit to support capacity building and grant writing activities, including
 funding for: pilot projects; pump-priming and match-funding; conference/workshop attendance;
 research assistance; equipment, software and resources; and strategic remission from teaching.
 For example, RESF-funded teaching remission facilitated development of Williams’s successful
 application for an AHRC-funded collaborative doctorial award, whilst match-funding of external
 small grants supported Seaman’s excavations at Mount St Albans which fed into a major published
 article. Wilkinson and Sweetinburgh also used RESF funds to pump-prime the Centre for Kent
 History and Heritage’s (CKHH) first public Medieval Canterbury Weekend in 2016 and to support
 the Centre’s public Medieval Faversham Exhibition in the summer of 2018. The Centre for Kent
 History and Heritage’s events act as fundraisers for the postgraduate Ian Coulson Memorial Prize
 Fund, which has also benefited from a donation of £4,250 from the Kent History Federation.

 In 2014 the members of the Unit were distributed across the Canterbury campus, but in 2016 the
 newly formed School of Humanities co-located to the refurbished Thorne and Fynden building in

                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the centre of the campus. Thorne and Fynden provide individual offices with high-spec computing
 facilities. They also provide study spaces for postgraduates, meeting rooms, specialist study
 facilities, and resource collections. Offices are co-located in the same part of the campus as the
 Daphne Oram building which has strengthened capacity having already been used to house
 exhibitions run by CKHH. The Unit’s archaeologists have access to laboratory space on the
 campus, including the new STEM Building (see REF5a: 4.2). Researchers within the Unit have
 access to a wide range of print and electronic resources hosted by the University’s Library and
 Learning Resources service. Research students and staff also benefit from the expertise of a
 dedicated Humanities librarian. The Library subscribes to a wide range of journals and of specialist
 online resources. Staff also regularly utilise the resources of the Kent History and Library Centre
 in Maidstone, which holds the archive of Canterbury diocese and the largest surviving collection
 of historical material for the ancient county of Kent. Thanks to Canterbury’s excellent travel
 connections with London, members of the Unit make regular visits to the British Library, the
 National Archives of the United Kingdom, the library of the Society of Antiquaries of London, and
 the research institutes of the University of London’s School for Advanced Study. The University
 and Unit also maintain software licenses for programmes that are used extensively in
 archaeological research, including: ArcGIS, Adobe Suite, Lastools, SPSS, Surfer, TerraSurveyor
 and Agisoft PhotoScan. These resources were crucial in the delivery of key projects including
 Rohl’s Historic Scotland-funded PhD on the Antonine Wall and research (funded by the Cambrian
 Archaeological Association and RESF) that led to Seaman’s co-authored article on ‘Hillforts and
 Power’, published in the European Archaeological Journal.

 The Centre for Kent History and Heritage provides a thriving focus for staff and research students,
 as well as regional and local history organisations. The CKHH plays a major role in the Unit’s
 impact activities. In addition to the activities highlighted in section 1, Sweetinburgh publishes a
 highly successful 1,000-1,500-word weekly blog on the Centre’s research and public engagement
 partnerships and activities, receiving over 500,000 page visits since it was initiated in September
 2015.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The Unit has significantly expanded its involvement in research collaborations, networks and
 partnerships since 2014 and all staff within the Unit make an active contribution to academic
 citizenship within their specialist areas. This has supported the achievement of significant impact
 and led to the development of successful research grants, collaborations, and publications. For
 example, Seaman is a Committee member and Hon. Treasurer of the Medieval Settlement
 Research Group, a Council Member of the Royal Archaeological Institute, and also an invited
 participant in the: AHRC-funded Royal Residences Network: 500-800 AD; British Academy-funded
 Rethinking the Medieval Frontier research network; and the AHRC-funded Early Christian
 Churches and Landscapes (ECCLES) research network. These networks were central to the
 development of funded collaborations which led to major co-authored/edited outputs, including the
 ‘Hillforts and Power’ article and the Living off the Land edited volume. Hicks is a member of an
 AHRC-funded research network on Archaeology and the Norman Conquest, contributing to the
 development of a forthcoming monograph on the Landscapes of the Normans. Since 2016,
 Goodrum has acted as co-convenor of The Oxford Research Centre in the Humanities (TORCH)
 network on ‘Comics: The Politics of Form’. This has led to publication of a series of outputs,
 including his chapter in Documenting Trauma in Comics (Palgrave) and the development of a
 research resource for the comic genre.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Pathways to research impact have been strengthened through the development of relationships
 with key users and beneficiaries of research expertise within the Unit: e.g. Hennessey and Prince
 play leading roles as members of Arkiv, a non-partisan group dedicated to providing historical
 clarification about The Troubles, involving academics from the Universities of Ulster and Oxford.
 Prince co-authored (with McBride of Oxford University) a report on the Stormont House Agreement
 for Ireland’s Department for Foreign Affairs and the Northern Ireland Office (2016) and (with
 Hennessey) on Delivering a History Commission for the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland
 (2014).

 The Unit’s research capacity has been strengthened through members’ involvement in external
 peer review of grant applications. Wilkinson (2012-15), Eales (2009-2018), and Seaman (2019-
 present) have served on the Peer Review College of the AHRC, with Eales serving as a strategic
 reviewer (2013-2018). Wilkinson was a member of the Stenton Fund Committee of the British
 Academy since 2018, and Seaman serves on the Research Grant Sub-Committee of the Medieval
 Settlement Research Group. These roles have enhanced skills and expertise in developing and
 writing successful grant applications, which have permeated the wider Unit through systems of
 peer mentoring, researcher development training, and internal peer-review of applications.
 Similarly, expertise in academic publishing and capacity for formative internal peer-review of
 publications has been strengthened through wide engagement in peer-reviewing for high-profile
 journals.

 External recognition of the Unit’s commitment to excellence is illustrated by members’ fellowships
 and awards. Seaman is an Associate Member of the Chartered Institute for Archaeologists and
 was elected as a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London in 2019. Goodrum was the 2016
 winner of the Whedon Studies Association Award for his edited collection Firefly Revisited.
 Hennessey was the 2015 winner of Brian Farrell Political Studies Best Book in Politics for his co-
 authored Democratic Unionist Party: Protest to Power (short-listed for the 2015 Paddy Power Best
 Book in Politics award). The quality of the Unit’s work is recognised by the fact that since 2015, 7
 staff across the Unit have been rewarded for undertaking research and for achieving significant
 impact via the Faculty of Arts and Humanities (peer-reviewed) Research and Knowledge
 Exchange Awards.

 Members of the Unit have reviewed manuscripts and book proposals for high-profile publishers
 including: Ashgate; Bloomsbury Academic; Boydell; Cambridge University Press; Palgrave
 Macmillan; and Routledge, and play notable roles in the editorship of journals and book series.
 Wilkinson was co-editor of Routledge’s Queens of England series and joint General Editor of The
 Pipe Roll Society. Hicks is a subject specialist board member for Bloomsbury Medieval Studies,
 and co-editor of the Places and Spaces: Medieval to Modern series for ARC Humanities Press.
 She serves as a Trustee of the R. Allen Brown Memorial Trust, which oversees the annual Battle
 Conference on Anglo-Norman Studies and is on the editorial board of Anglo-Norman Studies.
 Eales was a member of the editorial board for History, Grummitt served on the board for the
 Fifteenth Century Series, and Hardy on the editorial board for the Journal of Community
 Archaeology. The modern historians serve on the editorial boards for Studies in Comics, The
 Journal of Graphic Novels and Comics, and Contemporary British History. This activity has built
 the profiles of ECRs, fostered research networks and new collaborations (such as Goodrum as
 Co-convenor, Oxford Comics Network) and strengthened expertise and research capacity within
 the Unit, which fed directly into the programmes of mentoring and researcher development
 considered in Section 2.


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Unit also hosts international conferences that led to the development of collaborations and
 publication of major edited volumes. In addition to those organised via CKHH (see Section 1),
 these include conferences on: Premodern Queenship and Diplomacy (Wilkinson and Wolfson);
 The British Churches, 1603-1707 (Eales); Rebellion in Medieval Europe (Dalton and Wilkinson);
 Agriculture in Medieval Wales (Seaman and Rhiannon Comeau – UCL); and, Moving Images:
 Comics and Travel (Goodrum). Across the Atlantic seaboard, Legal-Miller co-convened the
 transatlantic roundtable on ‘Religion and Race’ at Howard University, Washington DC, USA, in
 2017. In all, members of the Unit delivered more than 100 conference and research seminar
 presentations of throughout the UK, Europe, and North America, including: Austria, France,
 Germany, Italy, Norway, the Republic of Ireland and the USA. These have enhanced the Unit’s
 international profile, as evidenced by invitations to deliver notable keynotes, including: Goodrum’s
 address to the Historians in the German Association of American Studies (Tutzing, 2018); Hicks’
 2018 address to the Senior Historians conference at Wolfson College, Oxford; her 2019 address
 to the international ‘Conquest and Construction: Architecture and Landscapes in the Medieval
 Mediterranean’ Symposium at Birkbeck, University of London; Legal-Miller’s 2018 lecture to the
 UCL Americas Research Network Annual Conference, London; and Seaman’s 2019 address to
 the International Congress on Medieval Hilltop Settlement in Roquebrune-sur-Argens, Provence.

 The awarding of Research Fellowships pay testament to the high esteem of the Unit and has
 facilitated periods of intensive research and access to the specialist collections and resources.
 Fellowships held by members of the Unit during the census period include: Ruane, who was made
 a By-Fellow of Churchill College, Cambridge in 2018, in recognition of his work of Sir Winston
 Churchill and modern British history; and Hitchcock who secured a Folger Shakespeare Library
 Short Term Fellowship in 2018. Hicks and Williams held Visiting Fellows in History and
 Archaeology at Southampton University, which have contributed to the completion of key projects
 including Hicks’ co-edited volume on Journeying along Medieval Routes in Europe and the Middle
 East and Williams’s British Museum-funded Amara West project.

 The Unit has worked in partnership with regional and national heritage organisations. For example,
 working in collaboration with Canterbury City Council, Eales, Hicks and Wilkinson are founding
 members, and Eales and Wilkinson are co-chairs of the Friends of Canterbury Castle, a new (since
 2019) cross-city group working with residents, businesses, Canterbury Archaeological Trust and
 Canterbury City Council to conserve, reinterpret, re-open and create a sustainable future for
 Canterbury’s medieval royal castle. Hicks and Seaman also successfully lobbied and worked with
 English Heritage on social media to change their organisational policy of using the phrase ‘the
 Dark Ages’ to describe the Early Middle Ages. Watts has acted as historical advisor to the National
 Trust, producing a report on the significance of Lydden Spout Battery, Dover, and to Whitstable
 Maritime (ongoing) and the Chilham Research Group (Great War remembrance, 2017). Wider
 contributions by members of the Unit to economy and society are seen in Ruane’s role as historical
 advisor on the UK and European premiere of American playwright Steven Dietz’s Vietnam-themed
 play, The Last of the Boys, performed at the Southwark Playhouse in 2016. In 2019, Ruane also
 addressed the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in London on ‘Anthony Eden and the 1954
 Indochina Crisis’. Goodrum’s expertise in horror, gothic writing and comic books was used by the
 producers of Horrorfest, an interactive scripted and partially ad-libbed comedy horror production
 through radio broadcast by Canterbury Community and Student Radio. Williams and Hardy’s
 ongoing work in Folkestone (2017-) engaged upwards of 3,500 people - notably from hard-to-
 reach groups - with the town’s neglected history and heritage. It fed into local government thinking
 related to the Folkestone and Hythe District Heritage Strategy and Kent County Council


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Conservation Team, and impacted Diocesan decision-making on the ongoing management and
 representation of its heritage asset. Hicks’s monograph on the Short History of the Normans led
 to her invitation to join the international scientific council for a forthcoming exhibition (2021-22) at
 the Reiss-Engelhorn-Museen in Mannheim on ‘The Normans: A Story of Mobility, Conquest and
 Innovation.’ Duffy, a research student, is a member of the Cranfield Recovery and Identification of
 Conflict Casualties team. Bulaitis’s research into the Kentish Tithe Wars resonated across Kent,
 leading to him delivering 14 invited public lectures, including to a branch of the National Farmers’
 Union.

 One of the ways that the Unit engages with diverse communities and publics through its research
 is via engagement with the media. For example, Ruane has contributed to TV documentaries for:
 Japanese state television, Channel 5, C-Span, and the History Channel. He has also contributed
 to The One Show on BBC1, BBC Southeast Today and Channel 5’s Inside Balmoral. Wilkinson
 contributed a segment on Eleanor de Montfort to BBC Radio 4’s Woman’s Hour and spoke to
 BBC1’s Inside Out, BBC Radio Lincolnshire and BBC Radio Kent, all in 2015. Grummitt appeared
 on BBC2’s The Real White Queen (2017). Watts has appeared on Channel 4’s Britain at Low Tide,
 speaking about the history of Richborough Port 7 (2018), while Bulaitis featured in BBC1’s
 documentary on The Sunshine Corner Coalfields (2014). Prince’s research on the Troubles in
 Northern Ireland has been broadcast on BBC Radio 4’s documentary series Breakdown (2019).

 The Unit contributed to the sustainability of the discipline by supporting emerging scholars
 elsewhere. Unit staff have acted as external examiners for PhDs (at the Universities of
 Birmingham, Cork, Essex, Exeter, Leicester, London, Oxford, Reading, University of Wales Trinity
 St David, University of East Anglia), MPhils, and Masters by Research. Seaman co-supervises a
 DPhil at Kellogg College, Oxford University and is also an external for MLitt programmes at
 Glasgow University. Sibbesson served as external examiner for taught postgraduate heritage
 modules at the University of Hull. Wilkinson also acted as an external academic promotion
 assessor at Cardiff University. As President of the national Historical Association, Eales was a
 member of the Advisory Committee which revised the QAA Benchmarks for History (2014). She
 was a reviewer for the Queen’s Anniversary Awards for Higher Education Institutions in 2017,
 overseen by the Royal Anniversary Trust.




                                                                                                 Page 14
