Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Institution: University College London (UCL)

  Unit of Assessment: 8 Chemistry

  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
  1.1.    Overview
  Chemistry at UCL is vibrant and interdisciplinary justifying the departmental motto “Inspiring the
  future”. Our vision is simple: to generate world-leading chemical research characterised by
  innovation, insight and rigour achieved by our leading researchers across the breadth of the chemical
  sciences. We attract and retain highly talented staff by providing state-of-the-art facilities and high
  quality support to early career researchers enabling them to flourish. We embrace UCL’s
  interdisciplinary culture throughout the department to achieve the greatest breadth of impact for our
  research. The department has joint lecturer/professor appointments with Diamond/Harwell, London
  Centre for Nanotechnology (LCN) and Medicine and is the administrative home for the Institute for
  Materials Discovery (IMD), founded in 2014 to link materials research across UCL. The department
  has >300 active research collaborations with industry, UCL departments, other universities, national
  and international research centres.
  1.2.    Research strategy
  1.2.1. Structure
  The department’s research strategy is led by the management working group (MWG, 6 academics)
  chaired by Head of Department (HOD, Carmalt), with input from the Director of Research (DOR,
  Hailes) and the Research Committee, in consultation with all academic staff and the Dean (Parkin)
  of MAPS (Mathematical and Physical Sciences) Faculty. External academics (e.g. Dobson, Oxford
  University; Walsh, Imperial College) and representatives from industry (e.g. Simon Hurst NSG; Phil
  Taylor AzkoNobel; Mark Storr AWE) further inform this strategy. The department’s research is divided
  into four sections for administrative purposes: Organic Chemistry and Chemical Biology (OCCB);
  Physical Chemistry and Chemical Physics (PCCP); Inorganic and Materials Chemistry (IM) including
  IMD; and Computational Chemistry (CC). Each section meets regularly to discuss objectives and to
  determine strategic priorities. MWG hold annual strategy meetings in research, undergraduate
  teaching, postgraduate teaching/research, safety/sustainability and EDI (equality, diversity and
  inclusion), with relevant colleagues attending to inform strategic directions (Figure 1). The annual
  research strategy meeting provides a yearly review of research in the department, informed by
  REF2014 recommendations, MAPS Faculty reviews and external advisors. Regular staff and PG
  surveys also contribute to the departmental strategy.

                 EDI                                                              Safety
              Committee                            HOD                          Committee



             Departmental                    Management                          Research
                Tutor                        Working Group                      Committee



                Careers                        Extended                          Publicity &
                                             Management                         Recruitment
              Coordinator                    Working Group                      Committee


             Postgraduate                     Departmental                     Staff Student
               Studies                          Teaching                       Consultative
              Committee                        Committee                        Committee

    Figure 1. Departmental organisational structure, principal committees and reporting structures.

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  1.2.2. Strategic Aims and Vision
  The department’s vision is to achieve international excellence across major branches of chemistry
  including organic chemistry and chemical biology, chemical sustainability, computational chemistry,
  materials discovery and physical chemistry. In these areas we will sustain an internationally leading
  role to transfer results to inform policy makers, industry and the public. Our strategy for growth and
  sustainability is highlighted by forward planning to:
   Pioneer novel green chemistry strategies for molecular assembly, molecular recycling and
    materials construction.
   Address challenges of a zero carbon economy through sustainable approaches to energy storage.
   Develop new strategies for chemotherapeutics, personalised medicine and the Origins of Life.
   Develop new approaches to advanced instrumentation for fundamental and applied molecular
    science, notably in light mediated processes.
   Build on leadership in materials discovery and computational chemistry particularly in renewable
    energy, functional coatings and catalysis.

  This will be achieved by:
   Maximising interdisciplinary research via existing strong collaborations, e.g. Harwell, and through
    new departmental interdisciplinary research themes.
   Supporting core activities by rewarding excellence of staff and making new appointments.
   Continuing to achieve a balanced funding portfolio from multiple sources and expanding support
    from industry (open days/networks/KT events).
   Continued allocation of internal resource to maximise quality and success in grant applications.
   Sustaining the quality and number of PDRAs, PhD and Masters students.
   Building on the excellent infrastructure and facilities to allow researchers to flourish and continuing
    as an equipment hub for UCL/neighbouring universities.
   Supporting high quality computer resources, locally and through access to extensive UCL and
    national/international facilities, and continuing leadership in high performance computing.

       In the future OCCB will build on its existing strengths in biomedical imaging and biological
  therapeutics, deepening its interactions with UCL Medicine, School of Pharmacy (SoP) and the
  Francis Crick Institute. Research in the area of sustainable and green chemistry will be significantly
  expanded, taking advantage of the opportunities offered by UCL East, a £500M investment bringing
  together 8 UCL faculties to integrate research and education, theory and practice and connecting
  Experiments, Arts, Society and Technology (EAST). At UCL East 3 lecturer appointments, and the
  development of an MSc course in Chemical Sustainability will open up a range of new funding
  opportunities from UKRI and industry (lead Hailes). OCCB will continue contributing to cross-
  disciplinary research in the department, particularly in Light-Molecule interactions and organic
  materials. Objectives for PCCP include continuing to design, build and exploit innovative
  instrumentation for measuring and understanding the structure, properties and reactivity of molecules
  and solids in a range of environments; and to use this expertise to tackle problems in the priority
  areas of healthcare, quantum technologies, new materials and energy. The newly established Laser
  Science Centre (lead Fielding) will provide a focal point for many of these activities, helping to foster
  new collaborations across UCL. Future goals for IM and CC are to further integrate computational
  and experimental methods in materials research, expand research in materials for renewable energy
  and strengthen links with Diamond/Harwell through the Catalysis Hub, the X-ray Photoelectron
  Spectroscopy (XPS) National service and with the Faraday Institution (FI) through new battery
  technology research. New XPS methodology/data analysis will be introduced via development of
  methods for bulk materials and surfaces/interfaces in electronic devices using laboratory- and
  synchrotron-based spectroscopic methods. Chemistry staff work regularly at Harwell/Diamond (>10),
  including Beale (full time) and Scanlon (0.4FTE Diamond), and 20 UCL researchers are based there.
  Energy and Catalysis research will be further strengthened via close links with UCL Chemical
  Engineering. Links with Harwell will also be enhanced through engagement with the Rosalind Franklin
  Institute (RFI), of which UCL was a founding partner (Tabor UCL theme lead for Next Generation
  Chemistry; Battaglia UCL theme lead for Correlated Imaging).



                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Tackling the key research challenges will require collaborative, multidisciplinary approaches,
  bringing together multiple investigators with expertise in theory, computation, synthesis and
  measurement. To capitalise on our strengths, the department is developing 5 Research Themes:
  Chemical Sustainability; Chemistry and Light; Materials for the Future; Chemistry and the
  Environment; and Chemistry for Life to go beyond OCCB/PCCP/IM boundaries. These themes align
  with EPSRC priority areas/portfolios and UCL Grand Challenges (Sustainable Cities, Global Health,
  Human Wellbeing and Transformative Technology). For each theme, short/long term research
  strategy is being developed with regular meetings (formal/informal) and seminars to help drive
  forward future collaborations, grant applications and engage with end-users.
        Research activity on Covid-19, which will continue into the next REF period, has been initiated
  within the department. Howorka is leading a project delivering fast, portable, high-throughput and
  accurate antibody sensing by pioneering step-changing sensor nanopores. These will be integrated
  into memory-stick-sized-on-the-market kits by Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT) and clinically
  tested via collaborations with UCL Medicine. Covid-19 research activity also includes antiviral therapy
  and targeting activated macrophages to stop inflammation (Battaglia), a “cost effective” preparation
  of beta interferon- a naturally occurring protein that facilitates the body’s antiviral responses
  (Macmillan) and a computational effort to accelerate the development of antiviral drugs for Covid-19
  by modelling proteins critical in the virus life cycle (Coveney).
        To achieve our strategic aims the research committee, Heads of Section and HOD provide
  mentoring to staff to improve the quality of grant applications. All academic staff are expected to
  submit two grant applications a year as PI, with one to UKRI. This has led to a culture of collaboration
  and enhanced our total non-facilities grant portfolio to >£75M compared with ~£40M at the start of
  the REF period. This supportive culture will continue, as we strive to develop our funding portfolio,
  reflecting the collaborative ethos of UCL. The department recognises the key role that a large PhD
  cohort has on research outputs, and to maintain the number of PhD students, a departmental
  ‘matching scheme’ that provides a PhD studentship for ~£500K of UKRI income will continue as an
  incentive to staff, along with support for equipment. To enhance collaborations with industry and
  facilities, “impact PhD” studentships (50%UCL; 50%industry funded) will continue, e.g. 7 “impact
  PhD” students were supported in chemistry per year (2017-2020).
  1.2.3. Achievement of Strategic aims set out in REF2014
  All key strategies defined during REF2014 have been advanced enabling the development of
  chemical approaches to address key scientific and societal challenges of the 21st Century. These
  included establishment of IMD; the Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) radiochemical facility and
  the Laser Science Centre; enhancing links with Life/Medical sciences in Chemical Biology; expansion
  in sustainable chemistry and energy materials; growing leadership in computational methods for
  catalytic processes and crystal polymorph prediction. The QS world ranking shows UCL Chemistry
  rising from 43rd (2017) to 31st (2020).
       The OCCB group, with its focus on the interface of organic chemistry and life/medical sciences,
  has played a key role in the development of next generation tools for fundamental and applied
  biomedical imaging. This development has been stimulated by major strategic investments by Cancer
  Research UK (CRUK) and EPSRC and multiple collaborations (e.g. UCL Medicine, UCL Cancer
  Institute and Centre for Advanced Biomedical Imaging) leading to: platform technology for
  radiolabelling of tracers for fluorine-18 imaging with positron emission tomography (PET) (Årstad,
  Sander); development of a GMP facility with production of injectable diagnostic agents for
  experimental medicine (Årstad); new liposome-based theragnostic nanoparticles for cancer imaging,
  with 3 patents licenced to Nanogenics Solutions (acquired by Ryboquin £4.5M) (Tabor, Hailes) and
  development of infraluciferin for in vivo near-infrared bioluminescence imaging (Anderson). Powner
  leads investigations in chemical origins of life, pioneering a new ‘Systems Chemistry’ approach
  showing how proteins could be synthesised in prebiotic solutions (£2M grant funding). New
  sustainable synthetic and biocatalytic strategies (Hailes, Sheppard) have allowed the synthesis of a
  range of chemicals from sugar beet pulp (EPSRC, £2M) and development of biocatalytic approaches
  to degradation of plastics in the UCL Designing Out Plastic Waste project (Hailes, £1M
  UKRI/EPSRC). Howorka has pioneered development of DNA and protein membrane nanopores
  (patent licenced to ONT). This led to the development of a new nucleic acid sequencing technology
  by ONT, contributing to the company revenue growing from £4.5M to £52M (2016-2019) and recently
  used in detecting rapid mutations of Covid. Furthermore, application in various sectors worldwide

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  improved disease prevention strategies in people and plants, improved crop yields and ensured
  safety and protected supply chains in the food industry. Other highlights since REF2014 include
  development of borate esters as efficient, green catalysts for direct amidation reactions (Sheppard;
  sold by Merck as the ‘Sheppard Amidation Reagent’) and antibody-drug conjugates (Chudasama)
  with 2 patents and the founding of a spin-out, Thiologics (Baker, Caddick, Chudasama). The novel
  orphan drug pitolisant (WakikTM), developed by Emeritus Professor Ganellin in the department, is
  used for treatment of narcolepsy and Prader-Willi Syndrome, giving a significantly improved quality
  of life for people with rare diseases globally and saving 42% treatment costs for the NHS. The drug
  has generated >$70M of sales revenue for Bioprojet and Harmony Biosciences over the past few
  years.
        The PCCP section has made major contributions to developing and applying advanced
  instrumentation for fundamental and applied molecular science including the application of
  photoelectron spectroscopy (PES) to show how chemical substitution can determine the redox
  properties of green fluorescent proteins and development of liquid microjet PES (Fielding). An
  interdisciplinary research grouping brings together design, synthesis, photophysics and theory to
  investigate light-molecule interactions, focusing on two areas: organic/inorganic materials for solar
  cells (Blunt, Bucar, Clarke, Schroeder, Worth, Ingle, Thornton) and biologically relevant
  chromophores (Anderson, Battaglia, Fielding, Hailes, Howorka, Wilden, Worth), with a growing
  funding base (EPSRC £2.7M). Development of a new experimental route to generate ‘pure’ beams
  of molecular radicals (SDPrice) and investigating the phenomenon of stacking disorder in ice and the
  impact on the shapes of snowflakes (Salzmann) was achieved through >£3M funding (EPSRC, ERC,
  Leverhulme). Battaglia has developed a methodology for delivering macromolecules into live cells to
  probe cell dynamics and a unique Liquid TEM facility to visualise the dynamic nature of samples in
  their liquid form (>£4M funding). Based on this research, Battaglia has launched a spin-out company
  SomaServe to image live cells and improve their therapeutic viability. Gas sensitive semiconductor
  research from UCL Chemistry, previously lead to the spin-out Aeroqual (Williams, Parkin), which has
  air quality monitors operating in 16 countries and an annual revenue increase from $3.8M to $25M
  (2013-2020). Expertise in analytical chemistry (Caruana) subsequently stimulated a new research
  masters course on Applied Analytical Science.
        In the CC section, research on computational theory applied to solid-state chemistry and catalysis
  has extended its international standing. Leadership in materials and molecular modelling (MMM) is
  demonstrated by Catlow (1994-2018) and Woodley (from 2018) leading the Material Chemistry
  Consortium, managing 18% of resources on the national Tier 1 facility ARCHER, and comprising >80
  academic groups for the application of supercomputing facilities in materials modelling. Woodley also
  leads the MMM Hub, which hosts the national Tier 2 High Performance Computing (HPC) facilities,
  THOMAS and YOUNG, for UK's MMM community (EPSRC £4M) and Scanlon leads the Tier 2 HPC
  facility, MICHAEL, for computational research within FI funded projects, established via £4.5M FI
  funding (>60 users). SLPrice leads in organic polymorph prediction (>£1.5M EPSRC, Horizon2020,
  Eli Lilly) supporting the development of computational methods for predicting organic crystal
  structures and their properties with >60 licensed bundles of DMACRYS code distributed to
  academic/industrial groups. The CompBioMedCentre of Excellence, funded by H2020 with 15 core
  partners (£1.5M) and >40 other partners, drawn internationally from academia, industry and
  healthcare is led by Coveney and is focussed on the development of computational methods for
  biomedical applications including the first full-scale 3D high-fidelity simulations of blood flow in the human
  vasculature. Cora, Slater and Zwijnenburg lead the computational work packages in the EPSRC
  Programme Grant “Integration of Computation and Experiment for Accelerated Materials Discovery”
  (PI: Rosseinsky £6.6M), where computational guidance has been key to the experimental discovery
  of materials, e.g. for solar hydrogen generation. Many in the CC section have developed software
  including the VECMA Toolkit (Coveney), open source (~50 users) QUANTICS for simulation of
  fundamental reaction dynamics (Worth), SUMO for automation of band structure and phonon band
  structure plotting (Scanlon), GALORE for production of simulated XPS spectra (Scanlon) and
  Woodley has developed software tools and a database to assist with the modelling of
  surfaces/interfaces.
        The main goal set by the IM section during REF was to exploit expertise to develop new
  interdisciplinary projects. This fostered growth of transparent conducting oxides (Carmalt, Parkin,
  Darr, Scanlon >£3.4M funding) and new initiatives in battery technology including the EPSRC
  JUICED Energy hub and FI by focussing on new sustainable materials, e.g. aqueous Zn-ion batteries

                                                                                                    Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  and combinatorial and scale up methodology (Darr, Cora, Parkin, Xu, Palgrave >£4M funding). A
  national XPS centre at Harwell (Palgrave, £3.2M EPSRC with University of Cardiff) and UCL-wide
  activities in the use of carbon nitride graphenes as catalyst supports for electrochemical energy
  devices, funded by the EU Graphene Flagship (McMillan, Sella, Cora) were established.
  Nanomaterials for medical applications (Davies, Lee, Parkin), hydrogen storage, gas sensors, fuel
  cells, solar energy materials and self-cleaning surfaces (Carmalt, Choy, Darr, Knapp, Parkin,
  Palgrave, Blackman, Dall’Agnese, Abdi-Jalebi) received >£6.5M in funding, leading to 4 patents
  and co-funding with industry (e.g. Johnson Matthey (JM), NSG, Qinetiq, AzkoNobel, Altro). Notably,
  Parkin’s research on coatings with NSG continued throughout the REF period (with Carmalt), which
  originally led to the world’s first commercial self-cleaning window glass with ~2M sqm2 of ActivTM
  coated glass now sold worldwide pa. Beale has developed new synchrotron-based “5-D” time, space
  and energy resolved tomographic techniques for materials characterisation, particularly of catalysts
  under reaction conditions. This research underpinned the spin-off company Finden and continued
  interaction with JM in heterogeneous catalysis has contributed towards the development of next-
  generation catalytic systems (Beale, Catlow, Sankar). Increased activity in IM provided expansion
  through two research masters degrees, Materials for Energy and Environment and Advanced
  Materials Science attracting >140 students each year.
       The close synergy between theory and experiment is a key feature of the department with
  significant overlap between research of the CC staff with that of the IM and PCCP staff (>10 projects,
  >£9M funding). Catlow with Beale obtained substantial funding for the catalysis hub at Harwell (£3M)
  to continue a major programme in catalytic science employing computational, synchrotron and
  neutron techniques. Application of computational techniques to energy materials, especially battery
  cathodes and design of new materials for a range of renewable energy applications links members
  of CC with IM. For example, Scanlon received funding from the FI for a theory/experimental project
  with Palgrave on Na-ion batteries. Within the JUICED hub Cora collaborates with Darr on new
  materials for Mg batteries and with Parkin on new electrocatalytic systems. Battaglia and Gervasio
  combine 4D imaging from Liquid TEM of protein structures, capturing dynamical motion in water, with
  molecular dynamic simulations. A Spectroscopy and Dynamics Group, established by the PCCP/CC
  section (Fielding, SDPrice, Thornton, Worth), provides a forum for researchers to share ideas,
  develop projects and host seminars. Indeed, a key strategy has been to develop a wide range of
  departmental collaborations and larger-scale research collaborations with other universities and UCL
  departments. This strategy has led to a myriad of new collaborations with the fields of medicine, life
  sciences, materials and physics (>50 over the REF period) both internal and external to the university.
  These links have established UCL as a key hub in many large-scale UK and international
  collaborations (Diamond/Harwell, FI, Graphene Flagship, CRUK, ILL, ESRF).
       To enable successful grant applications in the evolving funding landscape, it is a continuing
  objective that all staff adapt as appropriate their research approach. For example, staff have
  translated their expertise to problems of applied interest in medicine and biosciences (Fielding, Holt,
  McMillan), electrochemistry (Porter, Wilden) and sustainability (Hailes, Darr). Overall, the
  department has published >1930 research papers during the assessment period (~1600 over
  REF2014), with ~320 papers pa. This publication rate is expected to grow further as new junior staff
  develop their research (11 lecturers within the first 3 years of appointment). Publications from the
  department have continued to be highly cited, with ~1.5x the average citations in the field. We have
  an active departmental seminar series reflecting the interdisciplinary nature of research in the
  department and joint seminars with the LCN, Thomas Young Centre (TYC), IMD and UCL SoP. A
  departmental weekly newsletter keeps staff informed of news, publications, seminars and funding.
       UCL is committed to the UK concordat to support Research Integrity and a 4-level training
  framework in research integrity has been adopted. All PG research students are required to be trained
  to at least Level 2 “Understanding Research Integrity” prior to transfer from MPhil to PhD status
  (monitored via an electronic log system). All researchers are aware of procedures available to raise
  any concern regarding research practices, which would go via the HOD in the first place and be
  referred to the Research Integrity Unit within the Office of the Vice-Provost Research (OVPR) if
  necessary. UCL is committed to open access and all publications are made available through UCL
  Discovery - in Chemistry >96% of all publications accepted after 01/04/2016 and some software
  developed is also open access (Section 1.2.3). UCL Business (UCLB) provides support to staff for
  negotiating technology transfer arrangements (licensing/start-ups), to achieve commercial impact
  from their research, including proof of concept funding, e.g. Thiologics (£100K). Further support

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  through UCL Innovation & Enterprise, working closely with UCLB, is available through a dedicated team
  for innovation development and funding, such as Discovery-to-use (EPSRC projects), KT initiatives
  and early stage commercialisation (>£1.1M awarded to staff during REF period). Consultancies are
  arranged through UCL Consultants (UCLC) and overall consultancy income in the department was
  >£1M.
  In summary, in line with our REF2014 strategic aims we have achieved the following:
    Targeted appointments (Section 2).
    Grant application success, balanced portfolio reducing EPSRC reliance (Section 3).
    Sustained/increased PDRAs and research students (Section 2).
    Equipment hub (Section 3).
    State-of-the-art computers (Section 3).

  2. People
  2.1. Staffing Strategy
  The department has appointed 19 lecturers/professors since REF2014, with 10 staff retiring/leaving
  UCL, hence a net increase of 9 HEFCE-funded staff, showing continuing institutional support. The
  staffing strategy is set by MWG in consultation with the Dean and informed by sectional group
  meetings. We have enhanced interactions and joint lectureships with the LCN, Harwell and medicine
  and developed the IMD (a Director and 3 Lecturers). Our staffing strategy has been to maintain core
  staff numbers in each of the four research sections while expanding in key areas relating to the
  department’s research vision and national initiatives. Expansion has involved an increase in staff
  numbers (Table 1) in materials chemistry; chemical biology; organic chemistry; nanoscale and soft
  matter and chemistry and light to enhance our strengths in these areas. Furthermore, appointments
  in electrochemical energy storage provide links with the FI initiatives.
  Table 1: New lecturers/professors appointed through the REF period
    2013-2015               2016-2017               2018-2019            2020
    Beale (1/11/13)         Worth (1/7/16)          Schroeder (8/1/18)   Ingle (4/1/20)
    Functional materials    Head of Physical        Functional materials Laser chemistry,
    used in catalysis and Chemistry; Simulation for organic electronic spectroscopy &
    energy storage          of molecular reactivity applications         dynamics
    Choy (1/2/14)           Davies (13/7/17)        Dall’Agnese (7/1/19) Simoncelli (4/1/20)
    Director of IMD; Multi- Design of novel nano- Electrochemical        with LCN; DNA nano-
    functional thin films   structured materials    energy storage       technology
    Volpe (1/9/14)           Sander (1/9/17)           Xu (1/4/19)              Hele (22/07/20)
    Experimental and         with medicine; PET        Electrochemical          Theoretical
    theoretical study of     and Radiochemistry        energy storage           chemistry; quantum
    soft matter                                                                 mechanical motion
    Lee (1/11/14)            Knapp (1/10/17)           Haynes (3/6/19)
    Nanomaterials and        Precursor design for      Supramolecular
    nanodevices              the fabrication of        chemistry linked to      Colour codes:
                             materials                 biology
    Clarke (1/3/15)                                    Regoutz (4/7/19)         Professor appointment
    Laser spectroscopy of                              Materials and X-ray      Lecturer appointment
    organic materials                                  spectroscopy             Lecturer previous fellow
    Chudasama (1/4/15)                                 Abdi-Jalebi (1/11/19)
    Chemical biology /                                 Energy materials
    protein bioconjugation
       All academic staff that have left or retired during REF have been replaced. Exit questionnaires
  from this group were very positive about UCL Chemistry and the non-retirees departed for promotions
  (e.g. to take up a position as Pro Vice Chancellor) or a career change. The department has grown
  from 55 to 61.7FTE academic staff over the REF period, mainly appointing at lecturer level to bring
  in talented early career staff, respond to the national agenda (especially to priority areas set by UKRI,
  e.g. FI) and rebalance the career profile within the department. The department’s/IMD’s work is
  supported by 17 administrative staff and 22 technicians / research officers. During the REF period, 8
  Lecturers (Teaching) have been appointed, who provide support in UG and PG teaching and lead on
  e-learning, student experience, innovations in laboratory classes and teaching. This includes
  development of a Citizen Science Project for 1st year chemistry UGs (received a RSC Higher

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Education Technical Excellence Award and a UCL Provost Award). As well as enhancing the student
  experience the addition of 8 Lecturers (Teaching) alleviates pressure on academic staff ensuring
  there is sufficient time for research.
      A number of staff hold/held fellowships in the department over the REF period: Ramsay (3 current:
  and 10 former; RSURF (1 current: and 2 former); Marie Curie (4 current and 5 former); NC3R David
  Sainsbury (1 former); NERC (1 former); ERC Starting Grant (Scanlon, Bronstein); ERC Consolidator
  Grant (Battaglia, Salzmann); RS Dorothy Hodgkin fellowship (Simoncelli); RS Industry (Slater,
  Blackman); Leverhulme (Fielding); EPSRC (current: Clarke, Battaglia; past: Beale, Powner,
  Kerridge, Zwijnenburg) and a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship (Schroeder). Research fellows are
  strongly supported in applications for future positions and we have an excellent track record of
  appointing fellows to permanent academic positions through open recruitment processes.
  2.2. Staff Development
  Following UCL’s commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers,
  the department promotes these guiding principles in employment, environment, culture, professional
  and career development. The department established annual staff surveys and issues identified are
  considered by relevant focus groups. Where appropriate, recommendations from the focus groups
  are incorporated into the departmental annual planning cycles, e.g. a staff appraisal checklist was
  introduced to encourage all appraisers to discuss career development, promotion and flexible
  working, which resulted in staff feeling their appraisal helped identify opportunities for career
  progression (86% vs. 56% in 2019 vs. 2015 staff survey). For staff development, a “mentor model” is
  adopted where each person is assigned an academic, unconnected with their research, providing
  careers support including CV development, grant applications and promotion. Staff are required to
  attend at least two training courses pa, for example fellowship/grant writing, PhD supervision,
  leadership and equalities training. Compulsory departmental training involves unconscious bias,
  harassment prevention and best practice in safety. Staff performance is monitored annually via staff
  appraisal (100% appraisal completion for all staff). Each year, measurable objectives are set for the
  following year and progress against these is assessed by the appraiser and used to identify training
  and requirements for promotion. Clear objectives are set for teaching, enabling, KT activity and
  research including number and quality of grant applications. The HOD and senior staff across the
  department provide support during the grant writing process, giving feedback on draft proposals,
  impact and the response to referees. OVPR Research Facilitators also provide support through
  training, mock interviews, proposal structuring and highlighting current calls. This has helped
  successful awards of ERC Starting/Consolidator grants and EPSRC/UKRI fellowship applications; FI
  large grants (Scanlon, Palgrave), large (>£1M) EPSRC grants (Carmalt, Darr, Fielding, Hailes)
  and catalysis hub application (Catlow, Beale). Colleagues also receive guidance, from senior
  academics within the department, in writing high-impact research papers, with staff often circulating
  draft manuscripts to others for comment prior to submission. Seminars and workshops continue to be
  organised in the department with, for example, the Nature Group, ACS and RSC publishing.
       The staff development process has allowed a large number of fellows and PDRAs to progress to
  lectureships at UCL (9 staff) or other universities (Bear (Kingston); Benhamou (Le Harve
  Normandie); Buckeridge (London South Bank); Crick, Lu (QMUL); Dunnill (Swansea); He (Lincoln);
  Kafizas (IC); Kerridge (Lancaster); Logsdail (Cardiff); Maruani (Paris); Peveler (Glasgow);
  Tartalini (Coventry)). Our support has allowed all new lecturers to have success in expanding their
  research groups. Non-proleptic appointments, e.g. those on independent Royal Society, Ramsay, or
  EPSRC fellowships are not required to have a teaching load. However, many choose to do some
  limited teaching, including tutorials, demonstrating or lecturing to gain experience. New academic
  staff have a 33% teaching load in year 1, which increases to a full load (~30 lectures; ~200 contact
  hours) by the end of year 3. All new lecturing staff take an accredited HEA teaching qualification
  supported by UCL Arena (UCL's professional development pathway for teaching). New lecturers are
  given a minimum start-up fund of £30K in cash support, purchase of relevant kit (~£40K) and a PhD
  studentship to enable them to set-up their research group. New staff are able to recruit ~3 Masters
  students from the MSc/MRes courses to work in their group and are provided with laboratory space
  and given access to the extensive equipment portfolio and computer resources. As well as being
  supported by a senior academic mentor, new staff have monthly 1:1 meetings with the HOD to discuss
  progress and identify any further support required.



                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       A workload model is used to monitor FTE, teaching commitments, departmental/institutional
  administrative roles and research supervision. Success in grant applications can be recognised
  through a reduction in teaching duties and staff can take sabbatical leave to develop new research
  or KT. While on sabbatical leave (20 staff over the REF period), staff are removed from all
  teaching/administration duties for a full year, and their workload is shared between other staff and
  trained PDRAs. Goals, agreed with the HOD, are set prior to any sabbatical and achievements are
  assessed against these goals. Successes from sabbaticals include Fielding’s work on spectroscopic
  measurement on bioluminescence emitters leading to a £1.4M EPSRC grant and Macmillan’s
  development of a biochemical toolbox for protein modification leading to funding from
  EPSRC/Leverhulme (£800K). The sabbatical programme will continue through the next REF period.
       UCL introduced a new promotion framework in 2018 to support all academic career paths
  whether focused on research and education in equal measure, or on one or the other. The department
  puts forward cases for promotion based on merit and achievement through a well-developed
  promotion process, with no caps on promotion numbers. Candidates are encouraged, after
  consultation with their HOS and/or HOD, to submit their CV to a panel of professors, who consider
  applications, give advice and appoint a mentor to develop the case. The case is submitted to a Dean’s
  committee and then to a Provost’s committee for ratification. Through the promotion framework,
  Lecturers (Teaching) can progress to Associate Professor (Teaching) and Professor (Teaching). A
  departmental promotions workshop, organised by the departmental EDI committee (2016),
  significantly increased the number of staff who felt the promotion criteria were clear. These workshops
  were rolled out at Faculty level and are organised annually by MAPS to inform all academic staff
  about the promotions process. There have been 35 promotions since the start of 2013/14 academic
  year. Most female academics were probationary lecturers or at professorial level already, but the
  remaining gained promotions to Professor (Holt 2018) and Associate Professor (Clarke 2019; Holt
  2013).
  2.3. Research Students
  UCL Chemistry has maintained a high number of students registered for PhD/EngD degrees (on 3 or
  4 year courses; typically 200 students including those writing up). Funding for studentships was
  achieved via CASE, DTP, departmental and ‘impact’ studentships, the EPSRC CDT in Molecular
  Modelling and Materials Science (M3S), other aligned CDTs, strategic collaboration with international
  centres of excellence (A*STAR, Singapore; JAIST, Japan), EU, charity, Wellcome Trust, and direct
  industry awards.
       The department has a yearly intake of ~160 (234 in 2020) into its UG degree programmes, with
  student A-level scores averaging AAA or better. Of the 614 current UGs 256 are studying for MSci
  degrees and 358 a BSc. These students represent 32 different countries. Over the past 5 years, the
  F/M ratio of UG students has averaged 52.3% (national average on physical science courses 40.2%).
  The department also plays a pivotal part in the teaching of the Natural Sciences BSc/MSci degrees
  (162 UGs). Recruitment of UGs underpins the department’s financial position and provides
  exceptionally well-trained graduates for the research school. A success is the department’s PG
  school, which now has 187 students on MSc/MRes courses (Table 2), including an increase in %F
  (49% 2019; 29% in 2014). There are 6 masters courses (MSc/MRes) in the department covering
  materials chemistry, organic chemistry and drug discovery, applied analytical chemistry, molecular
  modelling and chemical research. The department admitted 64 new PhD/EngD students over the
  2019/20 academic year. The EPSRC M3S CDT is developing into a self-sustained centre maintaining
  an intake beyond the funded period through “impact PhD” studentships, CSC scholarships and
  A*STAR studentships, as well as a MSc course in Molecular Modelling. The EngD students have an
  industrial sponsor and spend ~6 months in industry (>40 companies). The department has played a
  leading role in two flagship PhD programmes: the Wellcome Trust 4-Year PhD Programme in
  Structural, Computational and Chemical Biology (co-director Tabor) and the BBSRC London
  Interdisciplinary Doctoral Programme (LIDo), fostering interdisciplinary research between Chemistry
  and Life Sciences. The department also enjoyed success in several recently funded collaborative
  CDTs, e.g. Hailes Co-I on “Transformative Pharmaceutical Technologies” with University of
  Nottingham and Thornton Co-I on “Advanced Characterisation of Materials” with LCN and Imperial
  College. The newly funded Wellcome Trust Optical Biology PhD programme (2020–2029) includes
  supervisors from Chemistry (Baker, Fielding, Tabor).



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Table 2: Research student FTE, by academic year
               2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17              2017/18    2018/19    2019/20
   PhD/EngD      166      179       189      174              162        172        169
   MSc            27       37        43       44              110        106        162
   MRes           16       21        23       22              25         26         25
   Total PG      209      237       255      240              297        304        356
  The current PhD/EngD students come from 17 countries (5 from outside the EU). The students are
  attracted to UCL by its international reputation, current students, Open Days, a significant web
  presence, active departmental Twitter account and a dedicated full-time administrator. Guidelines are
  provided to academics for advertising PhD positions and interviewing (ensuring students of high
  quality and EDI is taken into consideration). PhD submission rates within a year after end of funding
  remain high (>95%). In the past few years there has been a shift to increasing numbers of 4-year
  funded studentships rather than 3-years. The Graduate Tutor (Anderson) monitors PG progression.
  PhD students are initially registered for an MPhil degree and transfer to full PhD registration during
  their second year. A secondary supervisor is assigned to each student, who participates in
  assessment milestones and provides support. These milestones include: in 1st year a presentation
  introducing their research topic and a 20-page report, assessed by the secondary supervisor and
  discussed with the student during a viva. In 2nd year, a 40-page report including a timetable for PhD
  completion and an assessment of the student’s progress by the primary supervisor, which is reviewed
  by a panel. This culminates in a viva to ratify an upgrade from MPhil to PhD. In the case of failure,
  the student is permitted a second attempt to upgrade 18-24 months from their start date. During 2nd
  year students give a poster presentation and in 3rd year a 25-minute seminar. EngD students follow
  these requirements but have a range of additional training since they follow an MRes degree in their
  1st year. These students complete lecture courses, a dissertation, poster presentations, industrial
  days, schools events and can take training from the Project Management Institute (receiving the
  Certificate of Project Management). Some EngD students are employed by their sponsor after
  graduation (~30%). All PhD/EngD students are able to contribute to teaching (e.g. demonstrating)
  and outreach events.
       UCL Graduate School provides further support and training opportunities for students, as well as
  maintaining the electronic Research Student Log, which all PG students must complete at regular
  points through their degree. This is monitored by supervisors and records scheduled formal
  supervisory meetings, academic and discipline-specific key skills obtained. Through this log PG
  students can plan, assess, and monitor their progress and manage their continuing professional
  development for their future career. The department introduced a successful thesis-writing workshop
  (2019) and students obtain support for job applications (application forms, CVs) from supervisors and
  UCL Careers Service, as well as from graduate school courses on career planning. Career events
  are provided both departmentally and faculty-wide. Students log attendance for non-structured
  activities including conferences, external training, teaching and extracurricular activities.
  2.4. Equality and Diversity
  UCL Chemistry has an excellent record of supporting all members of the department with systems in
  place that encourage a family-friendly, inclusive and supportive culture; this culture was recognised
  by the department being awarded a Silver Athena Swan award (April 2020). The HOD actively
  promotes candidates for institutional/external awards, career and leadership development programs
  with input from MWG. The department provides financial support for in-house training, e.g.
  unconscious bias and improved awareness of harassment. It is mandatory for staff to attend “Where
  do you draw the line?” training (a harassment prevention approach developed by UCL, Universities
  of Cambridge, Manchester and Oxford), which is also being offered to PhD students. The department
  is ensuring that the equality culture is owned by all in the department, which is led by the active EDI
  committee which has representatives from all staff groups (academic, technical, professional
  services, research associates) as well as students (UG, Masters, PhD). The HOD is Co-Chair of the
  EDI committee, ensuring that all actions have full departmental support. The department has
  improved its representation of diversity during a recent redesign of the departmental webpage. In July
  2019, Dr Sean McWhinnie (Oxford Research & Policy) provided guidance on data presentation and
  instigated surveys and focus groups for staff and students. The surveys are updated and run annually
  to monitor the impact of actions and inform our strategy to achieve equality. The department now has

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  a LBGTQ+ Champion and “Out@UCL” and “Friends of Out@UCL” stickers are “opt out” rather than
  “opt in” for all staff. LGBTQ+ visibility lanyards are commonly worn by staff and we have reviewed our
  staff handbook to include what we do to support the LGBTQ+ community. “Out@UCL” training is
  available for staff and some departmental toilets have been refurbished to be gender neutral. To
  further support staff and students we have a Student Support Officer and a Wellbeing Champion
  within the department and three staff were trained as mental health first aiders. We also have a BAME
  Champion and have recently agreed departmental Race Pledges through a faculty initiative aligning
  to the 2020-2023 Faculty strategic EDI plan and the 2020-2021 UCL EDI strategy. These pledges
  represent a basic level commitment to advance race equity by addressing local specific challenges.
  The department’s mentoring scheme, a review of student recruitment practices to increase diversity
  across our student body, recruitment of a BAME Champion and proactively targeting BAME
  researchers for future academic positions are examples of initiatives here.
        UCL Chemistry has established a PDRA Support Network, a LGBTQ+ Network and a PhD
  Network. These networks enhance general wellbeing via initiatives such as: coffee mornings,
  lunches, careers advice, external speakers of relevance and specialised events (e.g. LinkedIn
  workshop, CV advice service, thesis writing workshop). We recognise that one of the significant
  attrition points in the academic career trajectory for chemistry is the transition from PDRA to lecturer.
  Consequently, we have appointed a PDRA Tutor in addition to the network to support PDRAs in the
  department. Staff support is also available from UCL’s Employee Assistance Programme and for
  students from Student Support and Wellbeing. We actively promote UCL’s Report to Support, a tool
  to report bullying, harassment and sexual misconduct.
          Established policies are in place to support career breaks. The department provides extra funds
  for staff on maternity leave, including PDRA funding to provide support in overseeing research groups
  and a sabbatical upon returning to work. Support is provided for paternity leave and two male
  academics have recently benefitted from shared parental leave; if required PDRA funding is provided
  to oversee the research group during the leave. An active university wide parents and carers together
  (PACT) network provides support for new parents and within the department 50% of new parents
  (83% new mothers) have attended PACT events since 2014. Departmental meetings are held within
  core hours of 10am-4pm to facilitate carer responsibilities. All staff can work flexible hours as required,
  and ~50% of staff work offsite ~1 day per week. The department has a local “Work from Home” code
  that clearly defines expectations and support. In addition, staff can work away from UCL for extended
  periods, particularly valuable for staff using central facilities for research. Cover for supervision of
  students and safety whilst staff are offsite is coordinated within each section. For staff and students
  based at Harwell we have set up a UCL@Harwell network and organised a staff away day there. Our
  new "Harwell Integration" project (budget £6K p.a.) covers travel costs for staff and students to
  improve integration between the two sites.
        UCL Chemistry has actively sought to reward and support all staff, and has a particularly strong
  record in the promotion of women in science. Carmalt, Davies, Fielding, Holt and SLPrice have
  been active nationally at “Women in Science” events (RSC, IOP) and Haynes has developed a
  “Women in Supramolecular Chemistry” mentoring network. The department has recruited 7 female
  lecturers in the past few years following positive action through the recruitment process. Here, the
  HOD or HOS personally lead searches to identify applicants and target female researchers. Job
  specifications and shortlisting criteria have been developed to be as general as possible. More
  women have been appointed to senior roles in the department/UCL including HOD, HOS, DOR and
  MAPS faculty Vice Dean (Education). All interview panel members have unconscious bias training
  and all panels are gender mixed (at least 33% female). Staff are encouraged to attend conferences,
  most funded via grants, although additional funds at Faculty level are available for staff with caring
  responsibilities (MAPS Caring Fund). Support towards travel for PhD students is provided by the
  department and researchers also apply for funding from the RSC. For the past 3 years the department
  has encouraged and funded PDRAs who want to attend the RSC Joliot-Curie Conference, an event
  supporting the aspirations of early career researchers. Female PDRAs have been encouraged to
  attend but funding is open to all.
        Outputs for REF were selected from submissions from individual staff, by a group of senior staff
  (all received training in EDI) including members of MWG, DOR and the Research Committee. The
  draft and final selection of outputs were circulated to all academic staff in the department for comment
  and input. A panel with equal gender balance reviewed the provisional output list, were provided with


                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  data, including the F:M ratio, %Early Career and %BAME (for staff vs. output) and ensured that there
  was no unconscious bias applied to the output selection (Table 3).
  Table 3: Summary of staff and output selections against 3 characteristics
                                                                Proportions
          Characteristic           Category
                                                   HESA 3 staff FTE      Selected outputs
        Gender                Male                      76.94%                77.48%
                              Female                    23.48%                22.52%
        Ethnicity             White                     84.80%                82.12%
                              BAME                      10.13%                13.91%
        Age                   Under 45                  49.23%                52.98%
                              45 or above               51.13%                47.01%
       Extra support was arranged for remote working through the Covid-19 pandemic. Departmental
  meetings were held virtually, along with research seminars. Weekly staff meetings, chaired by HOD,
  were held to keep everyone informed of developments and maintain a connected department.
  Guidance for working from home effectively and looking after mental health were provided regularly
  as were funds to purchase home-working equipment. Line managers had regular contact with staff to
  discuss their well-being, workload and working arrangements, suggesting refocused activities and
  flexible working patterns. Academic staff provided support to PhD students and PDRAs through 1:1
  and group virtual meetings. A ‘Covid-19 Measures’ section on the PhD internal webpage provided
  information and a communication channel to the Graduate Tutor. Every effort was made to ensure
  that PhD research could continue remotely with students developing new skills applicable to future
  research. RCUK funded students could receive up to 6-months paid extensions and UCL provided 3-
  month extensions for all funded PhD students in their final year with a possible 3-months additional
  funding on a case-by-case basis; the UCL hardship fund was increased to £3K per individual. UG
  teaching moved online and innovative lab kits and data analysis/computational research projects
  were developed. The department was chosen as a pilot for re-opening (June 2020), and the Covid
  safety working arrangements (strict social distancing, online access monitoring, occupancy numbers)
  was held up as an exemplar across UCL and documents/arrangements were shared with other
  departments.

  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
  3.1. Income
  The department receives extensive grant funding. EPSRC income over the REF period for research
  projects remained high (£45M). Based on previous strategic reviews, we have diversified grant
  income with a markedly greater proportion now coming from non-EPSRC sources (from 2013/14 to
  2019/2020) including EU government bodies (£1.56M to £14.6M), MRC (£186K to £6.7M), BBSRC
  (£3M), InnovateUK and Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (£1.9M), Royal Society (£2.5M),
  Leverhulme (£2.2M), and UK industry including studentships (£5.6M). Total grants administered in
  the department has increased from 200 (2012) to >400 (2019). The significant uplift in EU funding
  was achieved through award of 2 ERC consolidator grants, 2 ERC starting grants, an ERC Advanced
  Grant, H2020 grants and 8 Marie Curie fellowships over the REF period. Funding increases also
  included co-investigators on large EPSRC grants, e.g. McMillan, Parkin, Hailes and Catlow
  (>£4.5M). Additional grants awarded included: Leverhulme (21 grants); Wellcome Trust (4 grants);
  MRC (9 grants); BBSRC (13 grants); NERC (3 grants and a fellowship) and the European
  Commission (48 grants) that contributed a further £33.5M of support. These grants support the work
  of ~70 PDRAs at any one time as well as 5 senior research fellows. The department has ~50
  companies, across a wide cross-section of UK industry, who sponsor PhD studentships. Research
  expenditure on grants over the REF period was >£60.3M (up from ~£55M for REF2014), dominated
  by research council, charity, EU and industrial funding. Awarded funding for central facilities usage
  included Diamond (£6.6M), ESRF (£219K), ISIS (£3.4M) and ILL (£932K), with a total of > £11.5M.
       Future departmental strategy will continue the policies that have developed our substantial
  funding portfolio, including sabbatical leave, extensive internal review of grants, enhancing industry
  links and further collaborative applications with other institutions (especially at programme grant
  level). UCL/MAPS faculty has invested >£11M in chemistry/IMD equipment and infrastructure over

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  the REF period and is committed to future improvements. Plans involve further developing chemistry’s
  presence at the Harwell Campus, UCL East and FI.
  3.2.    Infrastructure
  The Chemistry department currently operates over 4 sites. The main site, the Christopher Ingold
  Building (CIB; 9000 m2), houses all UG teaching and the majority of the department. A smaller site
  exists in the Kathleen Lonsdale building (KLB; 800 m2) where computational, synthetic organic,
  radiochemistry and flow chemistry take place. IMD is based in the Roberts building and comprises a
  core team of academics and researchers focussing on delivering the next generation of advanced
  materials. The department led a successful EPSRC bid for a research facility for catalytic science,
  located within the research complex at Harwell (2013-2018) and played a key role in the renewal
  (2018-2023) with staff located at Harwell. UCL Chemistry (Palgrave) was also a partner in the EPSRC
  National XPS facility with the main laboratory based at Harwell. The department is a major user of
  central facilities, particularly at Diamond. It has joint laboratories in the LCN, especially for PCCP
  measurements.
       The department has seen substantial investment in infrastructure since 2014. To underpin its
  research goals, the department has sought to provide the best laboratory space, state-of-the-art
  instrumentation, and a dedicated support infrastructure of workshops, glassblowers and instrument
  specialists. The 3rd floor synthetic laboratories, which house the IM section, have been refurbished
  and new low velocity fumehoods (£1M) have been fitted. A new laboratory dedicated to initiatives in
  battery research was part of the refurbishment and supports research from Parkin, Carmalt, Xu and
  Darr. Laboratory space in the Roberts Building was refurbished to house IMD (£1M). UCL also
  provided significant investment of £3.5M to establish a new UCL Laser Science Centre in the
  basement of the CIB (350 m2) providing a focal point for inter-departmental research and to foster
  interdisciplinary collaborations. The basement lab space was selected due to low vibrations and the
  environment has been specified to a very high standard (temperature control 0.5 C). This
  investment is enhanced by an EPSRC equipment grant bid (Fielding, £1.4M) to provide state-of-the-
  art femtosecond lasers. The new Laser laboratories provide space for chemistry groups (Fielding,
  Clarke, Volpe, Ingle) and a group from Physics. The GMP laboratory was developed (£3.4M) as part
  of a wider refurbishment of the KLB to support the latest techniques for medical imaging of diseases,
  such as cancer and dementia, and production of PET tracers to detect and map how a disease
  progresses (Årstad), currently supporting 5 hospitals/medical schools.
      In 2019, the departmental mechanical workshop was merged with the Department of Mechanical
  Engineering to provide an enhanced service with state-of-the-art equipment. Two full-time technicians
  from Chemistry work in the facility and provide advice, guidance, and a bespoke service for equipment
  manufacture. The department’s glassblower provides a high standard of work, consultation and
  design services and an electrical support group (3 technicians) provides routine/preventative
  maintenance as well as construction of equipment. Close interaction between academic staff and the
  workshops means that apparatus can be quickly optimised or upgraded. In computational science, 6
  local computer clusters are maintained by 3 support officers. In computing, £4.5M was invested in
  hosting the national MICHAEL Supercomputer (Scanlon) and the departmental cluster, used by
  students for teaching and research projects, was upgraded (£100K). The department has taken a
  leading role in reducing our environmental footprint and fully adopting a “green agenda”. This activity,
  coordinated by Sella, is part of UCL’s Carbon Accountability Scheme pilot and LEAF (Lab Efficiency
  Assessment Framework) is reviewing laboratories to improve sustainability. All windows (~600) in the
  CIB were replaced (2016, £1.2M) due to poor performance of the buildings original single glazed
  windows. The new windows are comprised of self-cleaning glass, Pilkington ActivTM, developed from
  underpinning research in UCL Chemistry (Parkin). The new windows have resulted in a reduction in
  maintenance and a significant decrease in heat loss. Redundant corridors on the 2nd/3rd floors have
  been converted into student breakout spaces to enhance interaction between PG students; the UG
  common room was also refurbished.
  3.3. Facilities
  Departmental facilities have been significantly enhanced during the REF period. The UCL budget is
  organised by faculties, with each given a target for its contribution to central costs. UCL chemistry
  has hit (or exceeded) its targets each year resulting in significant inward investment in new open
  access instrumentation. This investment allows the department to act as an equipment hub for other


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  UCL departments and multiple external users including other universities, hospitals and industry. For
  example, external groups using NMR: 18 UCL departments, 12 industrial users/other universities;
  mass spectrometry: 8 UCL departments; TEM/SEM: 6 UCL departments, 4 other universities; XRD:
  11 UCL departments, 2 other universities; Figure 2). The department now has 8 mass spectrometers,
  5 high field NMR instruments, 3 SEMs, 3 TEMs, 2 XPS, 2 Raman instruments, 7 powder
  diffractometers and 1 single crystal diffractometer. EPSRC equipment bid success allowed for the
  purchase of a 700 MHz broadband cryoprobe and high-field NMR spectrometer (Aliev, £1M), used
  in a range of studies, including the origin of life (Powner), material precursors (Carmalt, Knapp,
  Parkin), polymers (Schroeder) and catalysis (Bakewell) and other NMR instrumentation. UCL RCIF
  funding provided upgrades to mass spectroscopy facilities (High Resolution UPLC-Q-Exactive
  Orbitrap Mass Spectrometer £336K), the Stoe Cu diffractometer (£150K) and XPS (£18K), an optical
  microscope (£80K), battery testing facilities (£100K) and a high-speed centrifuge (£42K).

                                                   FACILITIES                     Industrial Users (16)
         UCL Departments (25)
                                               NMR, XPS, SEM,                 Abcam, BioSyntha, Cancer
                                               TEM, Liquid TEM,            Research Technology, Carbosynth,
      Bartlett School of Environment,
                                              Mass Spec, Peptide                  Cerveau, Darr House,
         Biochemical Engineering,
                                              Synthesisers, HPLC,          Eisai, FabricNano, Gurit, Industrial
     Bioscience, Centre for Advanced
                                              Powder XRD, Single               Chemicals, Key Organics,
     Biomedical Imaging, Cancer Cell
                                              Crystal XRD, Raman,             Novacta, Oxford Nanopore,
        & Developmental Biology,
                                              UV, FTIR, GMP Lab,             Polytherics, Sixfold Bioscience
        Chemical Engineering, Civil,
        Environmental & Geomatic               Spectrofluorimeter
       Engineering, Eastman Dental                                             London Based Research
       Institute, Electronic & Electric                                     Imperial, Kings, City, Kingston,
     Engineering, Genetics, Evolution                                      UCLH, Hammersmith Hospital, St
      & Environment, Geochemistry,             UCL CHEMISTRY                      Thomas’ Hospital
            Infection & Immunity,
        IMD, Institute of Neurology,                                           Nationwide/International
          Institute of Structural and
           Molecular Biology, LCN,                                         Arizona State University Brighton &
                                                   XPS Harwell             Sussex Medical School, University
     Mechanical Engineering, Physics
                                               (run by UCL, Cardiff,          of Dresden, Johannes Kepler
       & Astronomy, Rayne Institute,
                                                   Manchester)                 University Linz, University of
      Royal Free Hospital, School of
                                                                           Nottingham, Institute for Research
          Pharmacy, UK Dementia               UK academia – 124 PI’s
        Research Institute, Wolfson                                        in Biomedicine Barcelona, Institute
                                               (2018/19); 3 industrial
                    Institute                                                of Bioengineering of Catalunya,
                                                      users
                                                                           McGill University, Vrije Universiteit
                                                                                         Brussels

                   Figure 2. Selection of external users of facilities and collaborations.
       UCL Chemistry has also developed the EPSRC/Jeol Centre of Liquid Phase Electron Microscopy
   with the world’s first liquid TEM capable of looking at the formation and evolution of structures in
   flowing liquids, including soft materials, cells and catalytic nanoparticles, funded by EPSRC
   (Battaglia). XPS facilities have been upgraded via the purchase of a Photoelectron Spectrometer
   (EPSRC £780K, Palgrave) to join our existing UCL-funded multi-user XPS facility, which has >200
   users. The new capabilities of the PES instrument (ultraviolet PES, simultaneous angle resolved data
   collection and in situ sample heating and cooling) has significantly extended the breadth and depth
   of science we support. These capabilities have also been expanded with the national XPS facilities
   at Harwell (£3.2M), of which UCL is a partner (Palgrave), enabling further investigation of material
   composition. These facilities have also been enhanced with the recent purchase of an FT-Raman
   (£100K), a Spectrofluorometer with Near-Infrared (£75K) and a X-ray Fluorescence Spectrometer
   (£55K).
       The department covers maintenance contracts on selected equipment with the rest maintained
  by a team of in-house technicians. These technicians train the researchers and the ethos is that all
  researchers should acquire their own data from instruments, overseen by lab managers. Training
  involves problem classes and hands-on sessions. Support for learning data analysis, e.g. XPS, is
  available via online in-house courses, which researchers can work through independently.
  Technicians are active in research and regularly co-author papers. The aim is for facilities to break
  even on a cost basis and be efficient on instrument usage, deriving maximum value from our public
  investment. A key aim is to support all research work and no academic has been prevented from

                                                                                                    Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  doing research for lack of funds. Staff without external funding are provided with advice on grant
  proposals and financial support for consumables and facilities access.
     The department uses a system to track chemicals in the department (Quartzy), which is a web-
  based labelling system which reduces duplication, and enhances sharing, thereby reducing waste.
  UCL has outstanding library facilities with online access to >1900 chemistry journals and makes
  extensive use of the British Library (5 minutes from the department). The department also funds
  Bibliotech ebooks, providing online access to a range of Chemistry textbooks, which are extremely
  popular with students and have been vital during Covid-19 remote learning.

  4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society
  4.1. Collaborations
  The department strongly supports collaboration, which is enhanced through the new departmental
  research themes. Collaborations are developed through Away Days, industrial days, sectional
  meetings, workshops and networking events. Industrial days provide opportunities for staff to explore
  industrial connections with invited companies. These showcase our research with presentations from
  academics and industry, poster presentations, idea pitching and developing possible areas for
  collaborations. External researchers from academia and industry regularly use our facilities and
  departmental staff are involved in collaborations with ~25 other UCL departments (Figure 2).
  Interaction with UCL Engineering has increased over the REF period which led to >240 publications,
  25 joint research grants (>£25M). Departmental research has been well funded by industry, including
  >100 PhD studentships and 22 PDRAs from ~50 different companies. There are also substantial links
  with other UK institutions/industry (50) and international institutions (145) through collaborative
  projects, programme and EU grants (Figure 3). In total, 762 different national and international partner
  universities appear in joint publications in the review period, with, for example 1200 papers with other
  UK institutions, 419 with US institutions, 133 with France, 170 with Germany and >100 with industrial
  partners. 72.7% of all our publications have at least one international co-author.

                                                                              110 PhD/EngD Studentships
         Main UK Collaborating                                                and 22 PDRAs Funded / Co-
              Institutions                     UCL CHEMISTRY                          funded By:
      Birkbeck, University of London                                        ACAL Energy Ltd, Almac,
             Cardiff University                                             Alphasense, Altro, Astra Zeneca,
               Crick Institute                                              AWE, AzkoNobel, Bekkers, Bio-
           Diamond Light Source                                             Nano Consulting, BP, BTG Ltd,
         Imperial College London                                            Cambridge Crystallographic Data
           Kings College London                                             Centre, Cambridge Research,
            Glasgow University               Main Collaborating UCL         Biochemicals, CBK Sci Con Ltd,
         Queen Mary University of                                           Cella Energy, Chirotech
                                                 Departments
                  London                                                    Technologies Ltd, DENSsolutions,
                                            Biochemical Engineering         Diamond, DSTL, Edwards
       Queen’s University of Belfast
                                             Chemical Engineering           Vacuum, Eisai, Eli Lilly , ESRF, GE
      Science & Technology Facilities
             University of Bath                    Biosciences              Healtcare, GSK, Heptares,
         University of Birmingham               Cancer Institute            Hexcel, Inbev, Infineum, Ion
                                            Eastman Dental Institute        Science, JM, Joel UK,
            University of Bristol
                                            Institute of Structural &       LifeArc/MRCT, National Physical
          University of Cambridge
                                               Molecular Biology            Laboratory, Novartis,
           University of Durham
           University of Liverpool                     LCN                  Novozymes, NSG, Oxford
         University of Manchester           Mechanical Engineering          Nanopore Technologies, Qinetiq,
                                                    Medicine                Quotient Surfaces Ltd, SAB
            University of Oxford
                                           Metabolism & Experimental        Miller, SABIC, Smithsonian
        University of Southampton
                                                   Therapeutics             Institute Zoological Society of
           University of Sheffield
         University of St Andrews          Neuroscience, Physiology &       London, Simons Foundation,
         University of Strathclyde                Pharmacology              Syngenta, Thermo Scientific,
                                              Physics & Astronomy           UCB, Vectura Ltd, Yara ASA
           University of Warwick

                    Figure 3. Key collaborations including industrially funded projects.
     In addition to our key role in the UK Catalysis Hub and the National XPS centre at Harwell, the
  department plays a lead role in the TYC, one of the largest assemblies of computational chemists,

                                                                                                   Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  physicists and materials scientists in the world (>80 active academic groups in the London area). The
  TYC supports an extensive programme of conferences, visits and seminars, as well as providing a
  valuable platform for community engagement. Battaglia and Tabor are members of the UCL@Crick
  Academic board. In addition, Scanlon is UCL PI on 3 large FI consortium grants on energy storage
  (>£4.8M); and Coveney is the coordinator of 3 EU grants (>£3M UCL component). Powner is a PI
  in the Simons Collaboration on the Origins of Life, aiming to advance understanding of the processes
  that led to the emergence of life. The collaboration comprises investigators in diverse fields from
  across the world, and PDRAs chosen through an annual competition. This scheme has funded 6 PhD
  students and 5 PDRAs in Powner’s group, and a further 2 studentships have been funded through
  the Volkswagen Stiftung, “Life programme”. OCCB section staff are involved in a collaboration in
  Yamaguchi, Japan involving joint research projects and visits. Tabor also leads on extensive
  collaborations through the CRUK-funded City of London Major Centre and Volpe organises the UCL
  Soft Matter Network (>80 PI’s).
        UCL Chemistry staff have played leading roles both in industry and the legal field. Slater and
  Blackman held RS-industry fellowships and Catlow, Beale, Sankar and Schroeder play a lead role
  with JM collaborations and, for example, arranged a UCL-JM industry day, covering green chemistry,
  catalysis, energy and healthcare. Scanlon is the Director of the AWE-UCL Centre for Computational
  Materials Science, which fosters connections between UCL and AWE through funded PhD
  studentships and for UG students for 8-week summer projects on materials chemistry issues of
  interest to AWE. Cockcroft has been an expert witness in pharmaceutical patent disputes for law
  firms in USA, worth ~$100m to the winning side and potential impact on drug sales. Clarke and
  Schroeder are UCL Chemistry representatives in the Centre of Advanced Materials for Integrated
  Energy Systems, a £2.1M EPSRC network between the universities of Cambridge, Newcastle, Queen
  Mary and UCL; workshops in London have provided PhD students with a platform to promote their
  research and introduce them to grant writing, fellowship schemes and seed funding. Staff in the
  department also contribute to chemistry in developing countries. Darr co-founded a networking
  charity UP-SIGN (UK-Pakistan Science Innovation Global Network) to address the economic and
  social challenges of Pakistan, coordinating academics and professionals from both countries. Catlow
  played a leading role in establishing a materials modelling centre in South Africa. The M3S EngD
  researchers led in the establishment of a local computational research group at the Kwame Nkrumah
  University of Science and Technology in Ghana, via multiple visits, delivering a series of
  lectures/workshops and working closely with local researchers to implement the techniques into their
  projects. Overall, UCL chemistry staff have >150 international research collaborations and use central
  facilities in ~15 countries, especially for diffraction (NIST, Oakridge, ILL, ESRF) and large laser usage.
        Research outputs have been published on departmental and college websites, video and
  podcast, and through television, radio and newspapers. Sella, the department’s publicity coordinator,
  champions UCL Chemistry’s media exposure (Section 4.2). Examples of research covered in the
  media include Carmalt/Parkin’s work on superhydrophobic materials (published in Science),
  Powner’s work on the origins of life (published in Nature), Coveney’s modelling of HIV-protease viral
  sequence to predict personal medicine (published in Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation)
  and work on clay composites (published in Advanced Materials), and Rowley’s work on CFC’s
  (published in PCCP).
  4.2. Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society
  UCL chemistry staff have given >1100 invited lectures over the assessment period in >37 different
  countries and >100 plenary/keynote lectures, including Parkin and Davies at eMRS in France, Cora
  at ZMPC2015 in Japan, Salzmann at XXIII IUCr International Conference in Canada and Fielding at
  7th EuChMS Chemistry Congress in USA. Staff have been on the advisory boards and organising
  committees for >120 international conferences/workshops. They are also editors/board members for
  >30 international journals, including J. Mater. Chem., J. Peptide Science, Faraday Trans. and Crystal
  Growth & Design, and Gervasio and Woodley have both edited books. Cora was a contributor to
  quality assessment of Italian Universities (equivalent to REF) in 2017. Furthermore, 10 staff currently
  hold visiting professorships, for example Coveney holds a Chair by Special Election at University of
  Amsterdam (30 such visiting professorships held by chemistry academics over the REF period).
      Chemistry staff have played a leading role in examining >300 UK PhD theses and 100 international
  theses in >15 different countries during the REF period. They have also refereed proposals for >30
  international research councils and charities, including the US National Science Foundation; US

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Department of Energy; ESRF; Dutch Research Organisation; Finland Academy of Science; Irish
  Research Council; New Zealand Marsden grants; Russian Research Council; European – H2020,
  ERC consolidator, Marie Curie and ITN programme; and the US-Israel Science and Technology
  Foundation. Over 30 staff in the department have refereed for EPSRC in the last year as college
  members and referee for other grant funding bodies including MRC, BBSRC, NERC, Wellcome Trust,
  Leverhulme Trust, Royal Society and UKRI fellowships.
        Staff contribute directly to UK learned societies, including Fielding (RSC Council and Chair of
  RSC Publishing Board 2012-16), SLPrice and Holt (RSC Faraday Council (2012-15 and 2015-18)),
  Caruana (RSC Analytical Division Council), Tabor (Chair of the RSC Protein and Peptide Science
  Group), and Davies (RSC Materials Chemistry Council). Departmental staff also sit on SCI, IOP and
  IOM committees. Parkin, SLPrice, Volpe and Sankar are evaluators for Royal Society Newton
  fellowships; Carmalt chairs the Ramsay Fellowship panel and was a jury member of UK Blavatnik
  Awards; Bell chairs the British Zeolite Association and the Structure Commission of the International
  Zeolite Association and Sheppard was Chair of SCI Young Chemists panel (2014). Tabor and
  Carmalt currently serve on RSC division awards committees.
        Chemistry department staff were awarded >20 national and international medals and awards,
  including 9 individual RSC awards (Table 4). Chudasama was highlighted in the Forbes List in
  Science and CNN News as a future leader in chemistry, while Thornton received a Royal Society
  Wolfson Research Merit Award. Coveney, McMillan, SLPrice and Parkin were all elected as
  Members of the Academia Europea. SLPrice was elected Fellow of the Royal Society in recognition
  of her outstanding contributions in the development of quantum mechanics to quantify the forces
  between molecules and their application in computing the structures and properties of organic solids.
  Fifteen academic staff (Beale, Carmalt, Caddick, Catlow, Coveney, Howorka, Parkin, Price,
  Marson, McMillan, Salzmann, Scanlon, Thornton, Wills, Worth) are listed in the PLoS databases
  of the 100,000 most cited researchers (https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.3000384).
        Chemistry staff also play a major role in shaping government policy and in administration of key
  initiatives/evaluations. Catlow was elected Vice President and Foreign Secretary of the Royal Society
  in 2016 and Vice-President European Academies, Science Advisory Council Co-Chair, Inter-
  Academy Partnership – Policy. Catlow was also a Member of the STFC panel developing the strategy
  for UK participation in X-FEL science and Chair of the Science Advisory Committee for the ISIS UK
  spallation neutron source. Coveney is a member of the Advisory Council for the Institute of Advanced
  Study and a Member of Scientific Advisory Board for the Hartree Centre. Coveney also contributed
  to multiple strategy documents in HPC for the European Union, leading to expanded funding in HPC
  and creation of a new funding agency EuroHPC. This was enhanced by Coveney being co-author of
  the UKRI Science Case for UK Supercomputing and a Member of the UK Government E-
  Infrastructure Leadership Council (2012-17). Slater was a member of the e-infrastructure advisory
  panel to enable recommendations for investment into computer hardware/software and Woodley,
  with the UK Materials Modelling Sector, co-authored a White Paper in 2019 for Exascale
  Supercomputing. Woodley is now leading UKRI's MMM Design and Development Working Group as
  part of the Excalibur Project that aims to ensure the UK is ready to exploit the next generation of
  supercomputers. Gervasio is Director of the JC Maxwell CECAM node dedicated to the promotion of
  fundamental research on advanced computational methods. Hailes helped develop strategy for UK
  Chemical Biology via RSC Chemical Biology Interface Division and Powner is an Executive Council
  Member, International Society for the Study of the Origins of Life, which sets overall Society policies.
  McMillan was on the Physical Science and Engineering Advisory Panel for STFC (2012-2017) while
  Beale is a member of the STFC panel advising UKRI infrastructures road map. Salzmann was Chair
  of molecular spectroscopy user group at ISIS (2015-2018) and Sankar is on the Scientific advisory
  council for the ESRF.
        Staff have also been on the advisory panels for other UK universities including Catlow for a
  review of science departments at Durham University (2015) and Fielding on the Cambridge
  University Chemistry Department Scientific Advisory Panel (2019), the External Advisory Board for
  School of Chemistry, University of Cardiff (2017) and Disciplinary Reviewer for University College
  Cork Research Quality Review (2014-15). Holt was external peer for the Faculty of Natural and
  Mathematical Sciences at Kings College London while Tabor was on the 2019 Oxford Recognition
  of Distinction Committee. In addition, Holt is involved with assessment of chemistry degree
  programme quality as part of the RSC Committee for Accreditation; Wills was a committee member
  of RSC Educational Council (2016-2019) and Lewis was a member of RSC Education Division

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  reviewing school examination provision (2014), is a member of RSC SE Regional Steering committee
  and contributed to the Heads of Chemistry UK initiatives on recruitment with Carmalt. Chudasama
  ran a Translational Skills training event for PhD students (2017) in London, which included training in
  presentation skills, science communication, IP and technology transfer.
  Table 4: Summary of staff awards and prizes:
        Royal Society of Chemistry Awards & Prizes
        Name         Prize                                        Year
        Scanlon      Harrison-Meldola Medal                       2015
        Battaglia    McBain Medal                                 2015
        SLPrice      Interdisciplinary Prize                      2015
        Parkin       Tilden Prize                                 2016
        Fielding     Award for Service                            2017
        Powner       Harrison-Meldola Medal                       2019
        Carmalt      Applied Inorganic Chemistry Award            2019
        Regoutz      Joseph Black Award                           2020
        Catlow       Faraday Lectureship Prize                    2020
        Other Prizes or awards
        Parkin       Royal Society Armourers & Brasiers’          2014
                     Company Prize
        Thornton     John Yarwood Medal                           2014
        SDPrice      SASP Schrodinger Medal                       2014
        Catlow       Gerhard Ertl Prize Lecture                   2014
        Thornton     Tabor Medal                                  2015
        Parkin       IOM3 Griffith medal                          2015
        Powner       Bürgentstock JPS Fellow                      2015
        Caruana      Martin Fleischmann Lecture                   2015
        Blackman     PW Allen award                               2016
        Chudasama GSK Emerging Academic                           2017
        Chudasama Howard Prize Lecture                            2018
        Catlow       CNR Rao Prize Lecture                        2020

  Chemistry staff play a leading role nationally and internationally in the public understanding of science
  through the media, including Pint of Science (8 staff), schools lectures (18 staff) and public talks. This
  is championed by Sella, who was a member of STFC’s Public Engagement panel. Sella has made
  >150 appearances on TV/radio during REF, from offering expert advice to BBC on nerve agents,
  poisons and plastics, contributions to CrowdScience BBC World Service and expertise on ammonium
  nitrate explosion, Lebanon. He also writes a monthly column in Chemistry World (>50k circulation)
  on the use of chemical apparatus and is on the advisory board for Cheltenham Science Festival.
  Powner also contributed to the Cheltenham Science Festival on “How Did Life Begin?” and to events
  such as RSC North-West Regional Organic Outreach meeting and lectures for Prince’s Teaching
  institute. The department has displayed stands at Royal Society Summer exhibitions (2017, 2019)
  highlighting Smart Surfaces (Carmalt, Parkin), Catalysis (Beale, Catlow) and XPS (Palgrave). Since
  2015, >90 schools have visited UCL Chemistry to take part in our outreach days. Contributing to the
  national effort, Sella led a team synthesising >400 L of hand sanitiser (2020), which was distributed
  to UCLH and care homes across London, along with unused PPE from the department, to help
  address shortages in the early weeks of the Covid-19 crisis. Finally, we were delighted with the news
  that Catlow received a Knighthood in the 2020 Queen's birthday honours for services to leadership
  in science and research.




                                                                                               Page 17
