Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of East London

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context and structure

Our UoA brings together researchers across creative disciplines who share a commitment to socially
engaged practice and art form innovation. We are primarily situated in the Department of Music,
Writing and Performance, working in dance, creative writing, performance, music production and
applied theatre; we are part of the large multi-disciplinary School of Arts and Creative Industries, and
maintain close links with other departments and researchers in the school.

Our research is rooted in our lived reality in East London, a hyper-diverse borough with one of the
highest young populations in the country as well as severe levels of inequality and deprivation, and
strives to open the borders between academic research, participation and professional arts practice,
creating an environment that is inclusive, diverse and dynamic. We directly address the well
documented inequalities and deprivation which generate social exclusion and lack of
representation, access and participation in the arts, and aim to enable inclusion and bring East
London’s young population into the vanguard of cultural, artistic and social regeneration. We
celebrate the particular expertise, specialisms and innovations of our individual researchers and their
practices, while at the same time promoting an ethos of inclusion that leads us towards
collaborative, innovative interdisciplinary action research, intended to act as a catalyst for social
change.




‘Parambulator Parade’ (2014) developed by Qualmann as part of the AHRC funded Walking Artists
Network

The UoA has grown significantly over the last decade. In REF 2014 we submitted 7.2 FTE, with a
group of early and mid-career researchers carrying out distinctive work in participatory arts and

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
socially engaged performance as well as sound art/music and creative writing; this was reflected in
ratings of 50% 3 and 4 ratings for outputs, and 3.3 for impact. The unit has nearly doubled in size
with the current submission of sixteen researchers (13 FTE), and builds on the legacy of socially
engaged research with both local and international reach. The interdisciplinary structure of the
School encourages the development of new networks and synergies; our research crosses
departmental and disciplinary boundaries to draw in researchers located elsewhere in the School (in
the Department of Media, such as Chapman) and the University (in the Department of Art and
Design, such as Raney). With a number of new appointments in the Department since 2014, we
remain a relatively youthful group, with one professor (Hingorani), one reader (Castelyn) and a high
proportion of early and mid-career researchers. The UoA is home to two research centres, the Centre
for Performing Arts Development and the Centre for Applied Performing Arts. Researchers in the
UoA share common interests with School’s other two research centres, the Centre for Cultural
Studies Research and the Moving Image Research Centre, based primarily in UoA 34, and also
collaborate with researchers in Education and Social Sciences.

Research and impact strategy

Our UoA has an activist ethos, and our research ecology in both form and content is directly focused
on driving socially engaged performance, representation, access and participation in the arts,
embedded in the community both locally and beyond. Our research is structured around the key
strategic aims of ensuring that we have a positive and enriching impact on both our students and the
communities in which we are rooted, while continuing to build on our core strengths and established
indicators of excellence.

Action research: performance and participation
Inclusion is a key imperative for the UoA. Issues of marginalisation and deprivation are engaged with
through action research, in which performance is our methodological tool, enabling a dynamic
creative exchange between researchers and participants. In celebrating the diversity of our
location, we recognise it as a creative catalyst for innovation in arts practice. Our research agenda
embraces difference, demands decoloniality and insists on representation in elite as well as
community spaces, and in high art forms such as opera (Hingorani; Harries) as well as popular forms
such as hip hop (Trim-Vamben; Read; Robinson). Our students also form part of this
participatory exchange: many come from East London themselves, and their own experiences of
diversity and marginalisation inform and contribute to both research and teaching. A similar ethos
informs text-based research in the UoA: marginal and gendered communities are the focus of
McCarthy’s work with Travelling communities, and Castelyn’s international work on contemporary
dance and HIV/ AIDS in South Africa.
Our research and impact strategy are thus mutually constitutive; our outreach work informs and is
informed by our research.




                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Cast rehearsal for Not F**kin Sorry developed by neuro-divergent Terret and co-created with six
learning-disabled and neuro-divergent performers and performed at Soho Theatre (2018).

Terret’s work thus focuses on opening up theatre spaces and career pathways to traditionally
excluded groups. In addition to her work with neurodiverse writers and performers, presented in
detail as one of our ICSs, she co-curated the ‘Take Up Space’ cabaret (2018) in partnership with the
Royal Court, to celebrate and showcase the work of feminist, trans, crip and queer artists, as well
as curating and hosting the Feminist Cabaret (Wickedly Wild Cabaret, 2018) at WOW (Jude Kelly’s
Women of the World) at the South Bank Centre. Hingorani’s work as Artistic Director of Brolly
(www.brollyproductions.com ), a BAME-led cross-arts company, creates new opera, staging
often ‘hidden’ minority histories. These projects (nationally supported by Arts Council England and
Opera North) both develop new roles in the opera repertoire for BAME artists and act as drivers to
engage diverse new audiences. Harries creates accessible opera through participatory
workshops; his projects include ‘Create an Opera!’ in partnership with South Bank Centre,
and StreetWise Opera (https://www.streetwiseopera.org/) led by people who have experienced
homelessness, as well as a symposium series in collaboration with Trinity Laban Conservatoire
which led to a community-devised opera.




                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




‘Opera Audiences of The Future’ at Hackney Museum (2016) with local primary schools and the cast
of Clocks 1888 the greener which was staged at Hackney Empire.

At a more local level, our research works to empower our local communities. The aim of driving
change in the arts sector is also exemplified in the work of Trim-Vamben’s Transforming
Leadership in Hip Hop project with East London Dance, which supports the development of the
next generation of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic people to gain leadership positions in the
arts. Our research is predicated on a dialogue with our communities and an understanding of our
geography as a cultural location. This is exemplified by the development of the AHRC-funded
Walking Artist Network (Qualmann), designed to challenge exclusion and bring people and place
together, and perhaps even more sharply by her East End Jam project, in which she works with local
communities to forage fruits and make jam collectively – a project with transformational potential for
people’s sense of cultural and geographical belonging. McCarthy’s research engages with local
campaigning groups especially in relation to ideas of home and human value; exploring how the
processes of gentrification and the eviction of Travellers marginalise and stigmatise protesters,
her work aims to amplify the voices of these excluded groups.

Following our diasporic routes out from the diverse communities in which we are based also
connects the local to the global, making our socially engaged research an international practice.
Attention to issues of decoloniality and the representation of marginalised and/or popular dance
forms are reflected in partnerships with One Dance UK’s Dance of the African Diaspora
(https://www.onedanceuk.org/programme/dance-of-the-african-diaspora/), which seeks to raise the
visibility of dance cultures from Africa and the African Diaspora (Castelyn). Brazzale’s brief
documentary Afropean Moves explores the rise of popular festivals of African dance and music in
Italy, focusing on the experiences of migrating artists to nuance public perceptions of African
migration to Italy. Chapman’s art installation Memories of a Failed Insurrection, exhibited at
Coomaraswarmy Hall, Mumbai (2017) and Kiran Nadar Museum of Art, Delhi (2018), in collaboration
with Vitali in UoA 34 as well as partners in Mumbai and Delhi, offers audiences an encounter with a
moment of possible transformation in the last phase of British rule in India.

Research Centres and Partnerships




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Two research centres are primarily associated with the UoA: the Centre for Performing Arts
Development [https://www.uel.ac.uk/research/centre-for-performing-arts-development] (CPAD),
and the Centre for Applied and Participatory Arts [https://www.uel.ac.uk/research/centre-for-
applied-and-participatory-arts] (CAPA). The two centres share a commitment to engaged and active
research, and many staff members are attached to both. The centres also serve a vital function in
providing a supportive peer-to-peer platform for developing our research praxis, dissemination and
culture.

CPAD (co-directors Brazzale, Harries), established in 2014, focuses on building innovative
performance research within UEL, reflecting our determination to raise our profile for
interdisciplinary art form development alongside socially engaged research. CPAD hosted the
Sound Body Movement annual symposia, which explored interdisciplinary practice with a focus on
sound art. More recently ‘Hip Hop Encounters: Practice, Research and Pedagogy’, a series of talks,
round-table discussions, performances, film screenings and workshops to advance innovative
explorations on hip hop cultures, practices, research and pedagogies, brought together scholars,
Hip Hop artists and students to catalyse dialogues across disciplines. A current PhD student
attached to the Centre working on a project on Shakespeare and hip hop exemplifies this breadth
and innovation.

CAPA (co-directors Heaney, Hingorani, McCarthy) was established in 2017 under the leadership of
Sheila Preston (then head of department) to focus on action research and community outreach
projects across a range of creative and visual arts, rather than solely in performance. CAPA co-
director Heaney has been engaged in a range of programmes in the borough of Barking and
Dagenham, including Get Creative, funded by the Paul Hamlyn Foundation, and was an evaluator
on the ‘My Creative School’ programme in Medway. CAPA has allocated seed funding to support
interdisciplinary socially engaged projects, including McCarthy, Performing Infrastructure: urban
planning, community property and gendered spaces in the London Plan; Trim-Vamben, The UK Hip
Hop Leadership programme; and Lounasmaa, Creating Spaces and Belonging (a project which
underlines our cross-institutional reach; Lounasmaa is in the Department of Social Sciences and
submits with Sociology). CAPA also focuses on questions of pedagogy and in particular on the
BAME student experience, with a successful online symposium in summer 2020 on 'Eradicating the
Award Gap’, which brought together academics and students to examine the issue and debate
strategies to address it. CAPA underpins our reputation for disseminating applied practice,
exemplified in Preston’s publication The Applied Theatre Reader (2016).

Our strategy is focused on driving growth in the cultural and creative ecology and economy of the
region by developing our research partnerships, networks and collaborations at a
local, national and international level. We aim to position ourselves as cultural intermediaries, able
to promote the development of networks and partnerships between the hyper-local, the national, and
the international, and to drive change by leveraging capacity, expertise, reach and legacy for our
research projects. Our partnerships include community, arts and cultural organizations in East
London (e.g., Newham Music, the Half Moon Theatre, CAMHS Tower Hamlets) and elsewhere (e.g.,
the Royal Court, Opera North). We have also recently entered into an extended partnership between
UEL and the V&A, with a research fellow appointed by VARI (the V&A Research Institute) to develop
shared research and teaching projects focused on engagement with local communities as well as
our student body. These partnerships are unified by a shared commitment to the values and aims of
the UoA.

 2. People


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff profile and strategy
 This unit is driven by a vibrant, energetic and socially committed group of predominantly early and
 mid-career researchers. The emerging area is supported by the staffing strategy in the School,
 which aims to recruit and develop research-active staff and to increase research capacity, in
 support of our ambition to nurture the next generation of leading researchers and to become a
 centre of excellence and innovation for socially engaged performance practice and research.

 There has been substantial change in the UoA since the REF 2014 submission, with a number of
 departures but also a significant expansion in staff numbers overall, and a consolidation of
 research strengths. We are returning sixteen staff members, double the eight submitted in 2014.
 In the intervening years we have worked to consolidate and develop our core areas, and clarified
 our research direction, embracing the opportunity to make a difference to local communities
 through action research and complementary curricula. Alongside a number of new appointments,
 the School has also been keen to build research capacity among existing staff. Hingorani,
 promoted to Reader in 2015 and Professor in 2019, and Castelyn, promoted to Reader in 2019,
 have led the submission for the current round. We are also proud to include in this submission
 staff who were in post in 2014 but not eligible for submission to REF; staff who have been
 supported to develop as active researchers since then include Castelyn, Qualmann, Harries and
 A. Robinson.
 In the current submission, the levels and FTE of researchers submitted in the UoA are as follows:

  Name                    Level                    Fraction                 Research
                                                                            specialism
  Hingorani               Professor                1.0                      Performance

  Castelyn                Reader                   1.0                      Dance

  Garrett Brown           Head of department       1.0                      Dance

  Brazzale                Senior lecturer          1.0                      Dance

  Cawkwell                Senior lecturer          0.5                      Contemporary Music

  Chapman                 Senior lecturer          1.0                      Film/ music

  Harries                 Senior lecturer          0.6                      Music

  Heaney                  Senior lecturer          1.0                      Performance

  Qualmann                Senior lecturer          0.7                      Performance

  Raney                   Senior lecturer          0.6                      Creative Writing

  Read                    Senior lecturer          1.0                      Dance

  Reddington              Senior lecturer          0.5                      Music

  Terret                  Senior lecturer          1.0                      Performance



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  McCarthy                 Lecturer/ ECR             0.5                      Performance

  Robinson L               Lecturer/ ECR             0.8                      Dance

  Robinson A               Lecturer/ ECR             0.8                      Creative writing

                           1 x Professor             1.0                      Creative writing: 2
  Totals                   1 x Reader                1.0                      Dance: 5
                           1 x HoD                   1.0                      Music: 4
                           10 x SL                   7.9                      Performance: 5
                           3 x ECR                   2.1

                           16 headcount              13 FTE


 As this table demonstrates, mid-career researchers are significantly the largest group in the
 submission, with a very small number of senior staff to provide research leadership. This is
 beneficial in terms of the energy and egalitarian spirit generated by a relatively flat profile.
 However, we are also keen to bring on the next generation of research leaders in the UoA, and a
 priority for the coming years will be to develop our mid-career researchers and to encourage
 promotion to readerships and professorships.

 We have been growing a critical mass of practitioner scholars keen to work across disciplines, and
 we are also working to identify and support researchers for the future among staff who do not
 currently have significant responsibility for research. Since our last REF submission we have made
 strategic appointments especially in the field of Performance (Heaney, Terret, McCarthy) and
 Dance (Brazzale, Read, Robinson). The School research budget uses QR funding to support
 research centres and ECRs, and also to offer individual staff opportunities for study leave and
 financial support for practice-based and impact-related projects. Research centres have a key role
 in mentoring and nurturing staff, identifying research priorities and encouraging synergies and
 collaborations; individual mentors also give feedback on research plans, including writing drafts,
 performance projects and grant applications to arts organisations. The university-wide Research
 Development team offers advice and guidance on grant applications, and a suite of research
 training workshops on topics such as planning research projects, impact, ethics, doctoral
 supervision, and writing grant applications.

 Postgraduate Research

 Our PGR students are a vital and growing part of the research culture of the UoA. We have 26
 doctoral students across the School of Arts and Creative Industries and over 20 active supervisors
 also drawn from across the School (and occasionally from other schools in the university),
 reflecting the innovative and interdisciplinary scope of our doctoral research. Many of our PhD
 students (like our staff) are studying part-time while remaining active professionals in the arts, and
 their research is central to their practice. Several staff members who have entered academia via
 professional practice rather than through more usual academic routes have also registered for
 PhDs, and we are keen to support this cross-fertilisation between creative and academic work.
 We currently have two members of staff undertaking doctoral study and are supporting two more
 to prepare to enrol on PhD programmes in September 2021.



                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A vital key to our participatory, practice-based and socially engaged research culture is the
 diversity and unconventionality of our research students. Their professional activities help to
 sustain connection to the professional arts ecology, supporting our ambition to keep the borders
 between academic research and practice as porous as possible in order to increase
 representation, inclusion and innovation. PGR students work across a range of areas including
 performer training, theatre, film, creative writing, art form development and cultural politics. After
 completion, these perspectives infuse their academic and professional work, contributing to the
 production of a new generation of creative practice-based academics. We are also developing a
 far-reaching suite of collaborative professional doctorates with Rose Bruford College and
 Ravensbourne University London, including a professional doctorate in performing arts due
 onstream in 2021.

 Given the relative youth of the UoA, the total number of completions is still small, but with 14
 students currently registered for doctoral study and with an ambitious expansion plan, we expect
 to grow this area significantly in the coming years.

 PGR completion rates 2014-20
 Year          Number                     of
               completions
 2014          2
 2015          1
 2016          3
 2017          0
 2018          4
 2019          1
 2020          1
               Total 12

 We have worked hard in recent years to build a strong and inclusive PGR culture, which operates
 at school rather than at department level (reflecting the fact that supervisory teams frequently
 include academics from more than one department). Students are encouraged to take part in the
 range of events led by research centres across the school, creating opportunities to network and
 share their research more widely. The student-led Research Networks Committee is responsible
 for curating PGR events, and supported by an annual budget of GBP2,000. Reflecting our
 collegiate and anti-hierarchical ethos, this committee aims to bring students and academics
 together to develop research culture, promote networks and knowledge exchange, and support
 employability. Events held in recent years include PGR conferences on ‘Authenticity and the Arts’
 (2019) and ‘Speaking from the Margins’ (2020). PGR students also regularly give papers at UEL’s
 annual cross-institutional Research Conference. Individual students are also supported to give
 conference papers and achieve research outcomes (for example, Tom Drayton in 2019 was
 supported to give a paper to the Philosophy at Play conference in Prague, and also allocated
 funding to cover interview transcription costs for his PhD research).

 This investment in PGR experience underpins a strongly positive response in the 2018 PRES
 survey, where supervision, research skills and professional development were all rated at over
 90%, and overall experience at 83.78%. Research culture, always a challenge in contexts with
 small student numbers, a high proportion of part-time students and a wide disciplinary range, was
 rated at 68%, representing a sharp rise from 53.6% in 2015, and all categories showed improved
 ratings. These results demonstrate the success of the strategies put in place over the last few

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 years, and we are keen to build on this improvement. We will continue to work on improving
 postgraduate outcomes and experience, including carefully monitoring training needs and career
 advice provision, and continuing to strengthen the school PGR research culture and networks
 through symposia events, research seminars and networking.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion

 A commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion, in the staff body and in our teaching as well as
 in our research, is central to our activist and participatory ethos. Our research is strongly engaged
 with contesting marginalisation in the arts, foregrounding a politics of inclusion and insisting on
 representation in academic research and recognition. Our location in the culturally and ethnically
 diverse East of London ensures that our community outreach and engagement activities are
 constantly engaged with these issues, and we also highlight them in our international perspectives.
 Our work on BAME performers (Hingorani), eviction and homelessness (McCarthy), queer and
 crip participation in the arts (Terret), African migrant dance cultures in Europe (Brazzale) and
 South African dance and performance (Castelyn) all testify to our continuing engagement with
 issues of inclusion.

 The university was awarded a Bronze level Race Equality Charter in May 2019, and in summer
 2019 the School formed its own Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee. Objectives identified
 in the EDI Committee’s University Action Plan specify an inclusive research environment; the
 review and development of provision of academic mentorship, allowing for longer term career
 mapping and support; and an increase in the proportion of BME academic staff. The School
 contributes to UEL’s Race Equality Charter by committing to these objectives; we have established
 a staff anti-racism group and developed a School Action EDI plan, mandating an alignment of
 ACI’s research and enterprise activities, themes and priorities with the University’s EDI priorities
 that includes running EDI training events for staff.

 The School is currently preparing its own submission for the Athena Swan Bronze Award. School
 staff take part in the Athena Swan Mentoring Scheme as mentors or mentees. The action plan
 addresses working culture, the staff base gender balance and representation at senior level
 positions, and strategies for supporting parental leave, ill health, mental health issues, caring
 responsibilities, and staff with protected characteristics, all of which have implications for research.
 We are working on objectives to ensure gender equality for both students and staff, maintain
 gender balance for REF submissions and for research leave, and monitor workload allocation
 practices. We are also mindful of the impact of the pandemic lockdown on childcare and caring
 responsibilities, and the potentially disproportionate impact of this on women researchers; we will
 be actively exploring strategies to rectify this in the coming year.

We carry out an institutional Equality Impact Assessment following each REF annual research
review. In the current submission the gender balance runs strongly in favour of women (twelve out
of sixteen); this to some degree reflects the gender balance within staff teams in many performing
arts departments. However, there is more to be done to build the research base among BAME staff,
currently two out of sixteen in the submission. Among the staff currently identifying as developing
researchers and/ or expressing an interest in studying for PhDs we have greater diversity (as
we also have among our PGR students), and we are developing strategies to offer dedicated
support to this group in particular in order to improve our record.
The University’s Office for Institutional Equity provides a mentoring programme aimed at staff with
protected characteristics and we will pilot a programme of PhD research support targeted at BAME
students beginning in September 2021.

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Our principles underpin the creation of a supportive, collegiate and dynamic environment for all
researchers in our UoA, valuing all contributions equally, and building on our ethos of access,
inclusion and representation to create a dynamic space in which to achieve research excellence.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

We are committed to creating a vibrant and supportive ecosystem that is not only of benefit to staff
and students but ensures that this environment has a positive impact in the diverse community in
which we are based. Our income, infrastructure and facilities are not simply resources for internal
use, but vital commodities to be leveraged and supported by committed organisations such as the
V&A without whom we would not be able to effectively disseminate and deliver our socially engaged
research. Our fundraising activities thus reflect our drive to decolonise high art forms - such as opera
– and also represent opportunities to open up access to cultural institutions (such as The National
Maritime and British Museums) to new and diverse audiences.

Income
Funding streams from a range of trusts, foundations and research councils enable us to carry our
creative projects into the community, and to engage in participatory and outward-facing research.
Some of our activities are small-scale, with few participants and minimal requirements; others involve
large numbers of people and large venues and would be impossible without the support of funding
bodies. We are therefore very pleased to see a continuing rise in HESA-returned funding: between
2013 – 2018 the UoA won GBP113,281.32 in HESA returned income, a considerable increase from
GBP77,247 in REF 2014. But the bulk of our funding comes from non-HESA income, for which we
have an extremely notable record in attracting income from sources which specifically support our
socially engaged practice. The GBP250,000+ funding from multiple sources that has supported
Hingorani’s new operas Clocks and The Powder Monkey, for example, made it possible to work on
a very large scale to address marginalised histories and engage new diverse audiences.

HESA FUNDING:
AHRC funded projects:

 2015/16                   Hunter                   Walking        Artists GBP18,013.25
                                                    Network                GBP1,230.31
                                                                           GBP19,243.56
 2016/17                   Breed                    Cultural Institutions GBP31,002.06
                                                    Traumatic Pasts
 2017/2018                 Breed                    Inclusive        Civil GBP2,000.78
                                                    Services

 TOTAL                                                                       GBP53,494.84


NON – HESA Funding:

Cawkwell;
 2018                     Arts Council England     Half the Sky           GBP4,500
 2019                     “                        Lyndsy          Cooper GBP9,000
                                                   Songbook


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 TOTAL                                                            GBP13,500

Hingorani;
 2014                 Arts Council England    Clocks 1888 Opera   GBP13, 731
 2015                 “                       “                   GBP81,364
 2015                 Kaye       Pemberton    “                   GBP3,450
                      Charitable Trust
 2015                 “                       “                   GBP4,900
 2015                 Stanley       Thomas    “                   GBP5,000
                      Johnson Foundation
 2015                 British Museum          “                   GBP500
 2015                 UEL                     “                   GBP3,600
 TOTAL                                                            GBP112, 545

 2015                 Arts Council England     New play - her     GBP13,984
 2016                 “                       “                   GBP9868
 2016                 ‘                       “                   GBP13450
 2016                 Half Moon Theatre       “                   GBP13,900
 2016                 Cockayne – London       “                   GBP10,000
                      Community
                      Foundation
 TOTAL                                                            GBP61,202

 2017                 Arts Council England  Opera – The Powder    GBP14,615
                                            Monkey
 2018                 “                     “                     GBP14,163
 2019                 “                     “                     GBP48,524
 2017                 Kaye       Pemberton “                      GBP1,500
                      Charitable Trust
 2018                 “                     “                     GBP2,000
 2019                 “                     “                     GBP1,000
 2018                 National     Maritime “                     GBP2,000
                      Museum
 2019                 “                     “                     GBP1,000
 2019                 Cockayne      London “                      GBP15,000
                      Community
                      Foundation

 2019                 Bernarr      Rainbow    “                   GBP500
                      Trust
 2019                 Unity Theatre Trust     “                   GBP300
 2019                 Fidelio    Charitable   “                   GBP1,600
                      Trust
 2019                 Ambache Charitable      “                   GBP1,000
                      Trust
 2018                 Opera North             “                   GBP3,000
 2019                 Opera North             “                   GBP3,000
 TOTAL:                                                           GBP109,202.00


                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Total Non Hesa Income: GBP282,949.00

Terret:
 201?                    Arts Council England   NoT YoUr CiRcUs           GBP34,000
                                                DoG CoLlEcTiVe
 201                     “                      “                         GBP70,000
 201                     “                      “                         GBP50,000
 201                     Royal Court Theatre    “                         GBP2,500
 201                     Southbank Centre       “                         GBP2,500
 201                     Duckie,s     Ectectric “                         GBP1,500
                         Brixton
 TOTAL                                                                    GBP160,500


Muller and Knight:
 2020                    Royal Docks             Project on A Bus         GBP13,900
 2020                    Royal Docks             “                        GBP4,000

 TOTAL                                                                    GBP17,900



These funders include small-scale and locally based charitable trusts, who advocate for marginalised
communities (Cockayne Foundation), and local theatres committed to widening participation (the
Half Moon), third sector organisations concerned with regeneration (Royal Docks), as well as major
national institutions (Arts Council England). The range of funders demonstrates our UoA’s successful
navigation of a number of income streams to support our socially engaged research practice.

We are supported in accessing these sources by a central grant application support team which
actively seeks out other funding streams less familiar in the academic community. This has helped
us to build connections between our research and a wide range of charities and trusts, important not
only in funding, but in developing partnerships, networking and collaborations with stakeholders to
ensure that our research is directly responsive and relevant to communities. This gives our
research greater dissemination and reach to audiences beyond academia, including communities,
advocacy groups and policy makers.

Internal support for research and research-related activities

Funding support throughout the REF period has been provided for a range of research-related
activities, to individual researchers and to research centres. School research centres were funded
at GBP2000 per year in the first part of the assessment period, with time allocations for research
centre directors, and in the case of one centre (now no longer located at UEL) administrative
support. From 2017 this was replaced by funding on application: research centres requested School
funding to carry out specific activities, including conferences, seminars and outreach projects, and
centres were encouraged to become more financially self-supporting. Funding is now allocated
under a School budget held by the Director of Impact and Innovation, and staff are invited to apply
for a range of research support: new initiatives, applied research, high profile events, delivering
conference papers, production costs for creative outputs, and so forth. Early career researchers and
postgraduate students are offered funding to help with research development. Researchers have

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
also been able to apply for funding for sabbatical leave and/or teaching remission; researchers who
have benefited from this include Brazzale, Castelyn, Terret and Qualmann. Support is also provided
by the University via funds specifically targeting civic engagement and impact-related projects,
including the Civic Engagement Fund, the Impact Fund, and the Student Internship fund.

Infrastructure and facilities

As the list of funders above suggests, a core aspect of our infrastructure is once again our East
London base. UEL’s Performing Arts provision is located in University Square Stratford, opened in
2013 as a collaboration between UEL and Birkbeck University of London. Facilities include four
specialist performance studio spaces, alongside a suite of music and multi-media recording and
production rooms, rehearsal rooms and live ensemble/band recording and control rooms. More
importantly, the campus's location in Stratford's Cultural Quarter places us in close physical and
intellectual proximity to key partners, including Stratford Circus Arts Centre and Theatre Royal
Stratford East, as well as (further afield) the Half Moon Theatre, the Hackney Empire, and the South
Bank arts complex. We benefit from a dynamic local cultural quarter, with theatres, cinemas and arts
centres. At the same time, embedded in the centre of Newham, we are at the heart of the
juxtaposition of old and new, deprivation and gentrification, which characterises the East End. This
radical proximity also shapes many of our research strands. Homelessness, inequality and poverty,
marginal and excluded populations are part of our environment, and our research responds to and
engages with these conditions. Significant connections with local and regional art galleries,
archives and independent cinemas, creative hubs, heritage groups and councils, underpin a
participatory and outward-facing approach to research. The city’s long history of migration also
shapes our research projects and supports international partnerships with researchers across
Europe and Asia in particular (for example Chapman’s international collaboration with artists and
galleries in Mumbai and Delhi to commemorate the naval uprising of 1946).

The shaping force of this hyper-diverse environment drives research not only in our UoA but across
UEL in general; this in turn creates an intellectual infrastructure where problems, interests and
perspectives mingle productively across disciplinary boundaries. Our connections with researchers
across the university are founded in a shared commitment to transformative interdisciplinary
research that engages with the key problems of our time and place. There are particularly close
connections between our researchers and centres such as Moving Image Research Centre (MIRC)
and those in Cultural Studies and Media, Art and Design and Social Sciences (for example, Brazzale
and Chapman are members of MIRC; Clare Qualmann has presented her research in the Centre for
Cultural Studies Research; Aura Lounasmaa from Social Sciences is running a research project
sponsored by the Centre for Applied Performing Arts).

In addition to the facilities offered by the many libraries and galleries of London, the university library
holds a number of archives relevant to researchers in the UoA, including the Refugee Council
archive and other collections relating to refugees; the British Olympic Collection archive; the East
London People’s Archive (an oral history collection); and the Gender, Sexualities and Ethnic Studies
collection, and the East London Theatre Archive (currently being investigated by PhD student
Deborah Jeffries), all collections which resonate strongly with our research interests and provide a
resource for students at all levels as well as staff.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Contribution to research base


                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
As scholars and researchers, we are committed to sustaining the viability and dynamism of our
disciplines, bringing in our distinctive perspectives through membership of editorial boards,
committees, and other activities, in both academic and arts communities. We are invested in leading
academic dissemination, making visible marginalised forms, and decolonising both research and
the curriculum.

Staff contribute to the promotion of cutting-edge research nationally through their contribution to
academic journals and book publishers. Garrett Brown is the Founding Editor for the Journal of
Dance & Somatic Practices, and the founding director of Coventry Dance. We are represented on a
range of journal editorial and advisory boards, including Punk and Post Punk journal, The Journal
of the Art of Record Production (JARP), and the International Association for the Study of Popular
Music (IASPM) Journal (Reddington); HOTFOOT, the online magazine of the Dance of the African
Diaspora strand of One Dance UK; the South African Dance Journal (Castelyn); Streetnotes:
ethnography, poetry and the documentary experience (Brazzale). We are also peer reviewers for
publishers including Routledge, Bloomsbury, Methuen, Oxford University Press, Ashgate Press,
Methuen Drama. We contribute to the development of pedagogy in our specialist areas as members
of national subject associations: Garrett Brown is the current Chair for Dance HE (Standing
Conference for Higher Education); Blakemore sits on the Higher Education Committee of the
National Association of Writers in Education (Subject Association for Creative Writing in the UK) and
is on the editorial board of the Association’s two journals.

Our research support activities also have international reach, enabling us to share insights and
innovations in global contexts. Harries is a member of the Accademia Nazionale di Danza in Rome;
Cawkwell sits on the board of directors of the Japanese Association for the Study of Musical
Improvisation. Castelyn’s work with international organisations includes Khuluma, part of
the 22nd JOMBA! Contemporary Dance Experience (2020) in South Africa (The Centre for Creative
Arts (SA), University of KwaZulu-Natal (SA). In 2016 she was invited to present to THE ARTS
CLUSTER (University to Pretoria) on practice-based research in South African Dance.

Our pioneering work to challenge the divide between elite and popular art forms and our drive to
open access to underrepresented groups is supported by a wide range of committee, advisory and
curatorial roles in arts organisations. These include, for example, Harries’s participation in the
organising committee for the Opera and Politics annual symposium, bringing together a network of
speakers from the English National Opera, Opera North, Opera Holland Park, Streetwise Opera,
Mahogany Opera, and RESEO, to engage with these issues. Laura Robinson serves as Treasurer
of PoP MOVES, an organisation that works to decolonise the study of dance through the
championing and sharing of research on popular/vernacular dance forms; she is also a board
member of the Society of Dance Research. Cawkwell regularly sits on the judging panel for the Ivors
Composer Awards (British Composer Awards).

Contribution to economy and society
The significant range and scope of our activities in the wider community is fundamental not just to
the researchers included in the formal REF submission, but to the wider culture of our department
and school. Staff whose primary focus is on practice rather than on research are often active in
community-based arts projects; in line with our strategy of enabling all colleagues to develop into
independent researchers, these community-based and creative practice projects are often the seed
for collaborations with more experienced researchers, or for practitioners to develop new research
skills. Our contribution to local culture and well-being is inclusive and participatory within as well as
beyond the department, and we also value the contributions made by those whose academic roles
are not research-based. Many of the projects described in this section involve colleagues who do

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
not have significant responsibility for research, but who take leading roles in outreach and
engagement projects, sharing our framework of action research and our commitment to knowledge
as action-based and transformative. This section gives examples of our collective commitment to
representation, access and participation in the arts as a means of transforming lives.

   •   We create sustainable research and outreach projects through collaboration and
       partnerships.

We work with arts organisations that are strongly embedded in marginalised communities such as
the Hackney Empire, the Half Moon Theatre and Newham Music; we also run joint projects with third
sector and community groups such as Chadacre Residential Home in Newham, CAMHS Tower
Hamlets, East End Jam – London Legacy Development Corporation. We also collaborate with arts
organisations with a national profile, such as the Royal Court Theatre, Opera North, the National
Maritime Museum, and the V & A. Our recently signed memorandum of understanding with the V &
A includes collaborative projects with UEL programmes at both undergraduate /postgraduate levels,
working with international artists such as Theaster Gates, and partnering in collaborative bids
(AHRC). The V & A East Project, with two new sites planned for Stratford, will open up this
partnership to new and exciting developments. With all our partnerships, we aim to connect with
groups that share our commitment to the values and aims of the UoA, and specifically our key themes
of diversity, inclusion and access; our intention is that by joining forces we can enhance our
contribution to society and also our sustainability as a hub for action research.

   •   We promote the work of artists and art forms from marginalised communities as well
       as creating works that reflect our ethos

Our focus on engaging with marginalised and excluded communities enables us to reach wide
public audiences and also to develop art form innovation in theatre, dance and music. Responding
to the systematic discrimination and exclusion of learning disabled and neuro-divergent artists from
the performing arts, Terret’s NoT YoUr CiRcUs DoG CoLlEcTiV’s, Not F**kin’ Sorry! in partnership
with Access All Areas reached live audiences of 3,000 (including 100 learning disabled residents
from assisted living and day centres in London people who also participated in workshops about the
performance of NFS), and employed 25 Artists/Creatives (including 50% with learning disabilities
or/& neurodivergent).

We promote and highlight the creativity of under-recognised artists and genres. Researchers in
music have focused particularly on gender as a category of exclusion. Cawkwell has worked
extensively on the compositions of the influential English feminist composer Lindsay Cooper. In 2018
she staged a performance of Cooper’s work, ‘Half the Sky’, alongside two of her long-term
collaborators and four younger musicians, to an audience of around 100 people including influential
bloggers and reviewers. This was followed by a mini-tour to celebrate International Women’s Day
2019, with partners Cafe OTO (London), ReR Megacorp (London), ExtraNormal Records
(Ramsgate), Free Range (Canterbury), and In Situ Music Society (Germany), reaching an
audience of close to 500 people ( and 1000 listeners to the podcast of Canterbury performance
supported by a GBP9,000 ACE grant). Reddington’s film Stories from the She-Punks: music with a
different agenda has toured the UK as part of Doc 'n' Roll festival 2019, with partners including Gina
Birch, The British Library, The Roundhouse, Sunderland Museum, and Folkestone Arts Centre; it
has also been shown in Los Angeles and has a planned screening in Australia.

For researchers in dance, the art form hip hop, often marginalised in academic dance departments,
has an important presence in our creative activities. Read’s performance in hip hop dance company

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Boy Blue’s film Emancipation of Expressionism, directed by Danny Boyle, which aired on BBC2
Darcey Bussell’s New Dance programme, was part of a drive to revalue and promote the importance
of the form. This project was funded and supported by Artstrusts Productions, BBC, Barbican, and
Arts Council England.

   •   Our projects empower and engage local communities and offer opportunities to
       develop new skills and participate creatively

In music, in addition to Hingorani’s inclusive operas (see his ICS), Harries continues this type
of community work with ‘Create an Opera!’ with Red Hat Opera. This project, which began in 2017,
focused on devising workshops that were open and free to the local community with 150
participants from a range of nationalities, ages and cultural backgrounds. Workshops were
designed to empower participants to engage with creative practice through developing skills in
movement, voice and writing as well as collaboration and improvisation in partnership with Theatre
Delicatessen, Streetwise Opera, and the Southbank Centre. A collaborative project with
Streetwise Opera (Harries) involved about 30 people who are/were homeless and was presented
at Southbank Centre to the public. Harries also led a project ‘Protest and Performance’ at The Tate
Modern together with dance practitioner Simonetta Alessandri, created with the general public.

Engaging with the lives of LGBTQI+ young people, ‘Our House’, a devised immersive theatre
production performed inside Eltham Palace and the surrounding grounds, celebrated the Queer
History of the Palace (Parkes) and won an English Heritage Award 2020 for best live
event/exhibition. It was delivered by English Heritage, Parkes, Kane Husbands (Pappy Show) and
the National Youth Theatre of Great Britain (NYT). Parkes also ran weekly workshops at Metro
Charity with LGBTQI+ children (13 to 18 years) devising material to be used in contribution in a
partnership with NYT (young actors who identify as LGBT+).

Anna Robinson’s poetry workshops celebrate and valorise London’s historic and contemporary
working-class culture, supporting local people to find poetic voice in a context of deprivation and
exclusion. In the last decade she has been poet in residence to the Coin Street Community Builders
heritage project in 2013-14; poet in residence on Lower Marsh Market, London SE1; poet in the
archives running writing workshops in local government archives in Barnet, Hackney and
Wandsworth; running prison workshops at HMP Brixton, among other activities. She currently runs
poetry workshops as part of Barking and Dagenham’s Pen to Print project.

Seeing the research potential offered by ‘Project on a Bus’ (2020), a successful bid to house the
project was pursued by developing researcher Mueller (staff member and PhD student) along with
Performing Arts staff member Knight. Developed by and funded by Royal Docks Learning and
Activity Centre as part of the ‘Join the Docks’ initiative in Newham, East London, Project on a Bus
offers a mobile venue: an out of service bus has been customized into a flexible out / indoor space
to host original performance work. It aims to support original and socially aware performances by
young local artists. It offers an artistic mentorship programme to support ten young Newham-
based artists to develop original performance work designed around the bus as site, exploring what
needs to be protested, voiced, or shared by young creative voices in current times. Project on a Bus
responds directly to current socio-political movements as well as to the debilitating effect of
Covid-19 on the arts. Engaging voices from an ethnically diverse background, it develops new
creative responses to how we can see, hear, and support each other through social change and
challenges. Key partners are The Royal Docks, Mayor of London, Newham Council, and artists
from The National Youth Theatre, Artistic Directors of Squint Theatre and Pappy Show.


                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Our projects contribute to economic well-being in local communities

We aim not only to reflect the communities in which our work is based but to ensure that our research
has a direct benefit on the performance industry, from employment of performers and technicians
to the venues where our works are staged. Income is thus not only about the funding of research; it
has wider repercussions, generating income in the location of the work and for the performance and
production communities involved. Through our partnerships with local venues, we can work directly
with all involved in the performance industry and have a positive impact on these communities.

In addition to collaborating with existing arts and community organisations, several staff set up their
own companies to implement their projects. Hingorani’s company Brolly is responsible for the
production of his operas and other works; this is a BAME led organisation that develops BAME artists
and creatives for the Arts and Heritage. The youth theatre company See & Eye was set up in 2016
by Griffiths (programme leader on the performing arts foundation) and has performed work for the
Youth theatre festival ‘Connections’ at The National Theatre, The Olivier Theatre and The
Dorfman. Such projects fund and support research, whilst also bringing employment opportunities.

Staff are also involved in evaluation projects in support of regeneration and skills development.
Heaney was an evaluator on the Arts Council-funded project Prosper which addressed the impact
of recession on community arts, social services and care provision, and explored the possibility
of arts-based approaches to foster new connections between different sectors. The project
involved stakeholders such as the Canterbury Festival, Workers of Art, The MAP Consortium, and
Kent County Council; it engaged with over 27,000 people and resulted in GBP233,000 in further
investment across the region. Trim-Vamben is Evaluation Lead for We Move, an ACE-funded
Transforming Leadership consortium (ACE GBP260,000, UEL CAPA Seed Funding GBP1000, and
UEL GBP25,000 in kind) bringing together leading hip-hop producers and dance organisations to
create and deliver a programme supporting the development of BAME hip-hop producers and
art form leaders.

   •   Our projects contribute to health and well-being in communities

Creative and performing arts have significant impact on mental and physical well-being, and we
value the contribution they make both indirectly (as in many of the projects above) and in more
targeted ways, addressing the health and mental well-being problems so widespread in our local
communities. Our focus in this work has engaged particularly with the health of young people. The
2016 project ‘Promoting the role of dance, as a form of fitness, to tackle the rise of obesity’ was led
by Nicolson (in the Dance programme, undertaking a PhD) and funded (GBP3650) by the UEL Civic
Engagement Project scheme. Its aim was to tackle the obesity crisis within schools, and it was
delivered in schools and colleges in the Borough of Newham, including Lister Community School
and Newham Sixth Form College.

RadioActive: Participatory Radio Hub (led by Kerr from the Music team) addresses issues
of inclusion and non-formal learning pathways of socially excluded groups, bringing together local
young people and UEL music students. Participants are involved in the co-production of issue-based
radio content leading to improvements in psychosocial dimensions such as confidence (self-efficacy)
and self-esteem, organisational learning, and development of contemporary digital skills.

Bringing together mental and physical well-being, Qualmann’s East End Jam project (2015-present)
builds on her research practice as a walking artist, bringing together local groups to forage for fruit
around East London and collectively make jam. The project has an activist intent, aiming to help

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
people engage more closely with the local environment as well as learning how to make preserves,
and at the same time investigating the health and well-being benefits of encouraging collaborative
outdoor activities.

   •   We are committed to pedagogic innovation and investigation

The Centre for Applied Participatory Arts has a particular focus on pedagogy and on the BAME
student experience. Its online symposium in summer 2020 on 'Eradicating the Award Gap’, brought
together academics and students to examine the issue and debate strategies to address it, with
students playing a leading role in planning and delivering the event.
We contribute to the development of educational resources and activities at secondary school level,
with Read’s Education Resource pack for AQA GCSE Dance teachers.
Conclusion

The development of the UoA in both scale and depth over the last seven years is welcome and
drives our ambitions for further expansion in the coming years. The dynamism of the UoA and its
commitment to socially engaged action research will increasingly be underpinned by the work of our
emerging early researchers and the nurturing of this cohort, and the next generation is a key priority
for the UoA going forward. The myriad local partnerships we have established are now being
strengthened by new cultural partnerships in East London such as with the V&A. Our research will
remain inextricably linked to our cultural location and embeddedness in the diverse communities of
East London and our commitment to addressing inequality, exclusion, and depravation. This means
we support our UoA in making active collaborative interventions to enable inclusion, access, and
participation in arts practice to drive cultural, artistic and social regeneration through our work.




                                                                                             Page 18
