Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Buckinghamshire New University

 Unit of Assessment: 3- Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 UoA 3 is an established unit at Buckinghamshire New University (BNU), with previous
 submissions dating to RAE 2008. BNU is one of the leading providers of professional-practice
 education in the South East. The University has a vibrant academic nursing and health-related
 community with an excellent track record in educating novitiate and experienced health and
 social care practitioners from pre-registration to doctoral studies. Due to institutional structural
 changes and subsequent staff changes in the latest assessment period, BNU has experienced a
 significant change in strategic direction for research aligned to nursing and allied health
 compared to REF 2014. This has resulted in a smaller submission for REF2021 with four staff
 (4.0 FTE) who have not previously been submitted to REF and a strategic change in research
 focus for the next REF period. In addition, successful incubation of research in the area of public
 health and social inclusion led by Greenfields and previously submitted in this UoA, has resulted
 in a new submission in UoA 20, Social Work and Social Policy.

 All staff previously submitted in REF2014 have since left BNU, or are being submitted under
 UoA 20 (Greenfields, Ansbro). Professors Procter and Martin maintain continued working
 relationships with the University as visiting professors, along with emeritus Professor Brodie.
 Projects from Griffin, Coggrave and Schaub are reported as completed during the REF period.
 Strategic institutional transformation and the recent launch of the Institute of Health and Social
 Care (IHSC) is enabling recruitment of new staff and continued development of existing new and
 developing researchers aligned to this UoA (eg Rioga, Williams, Hayward, Crouchman, Nathoo).
 Sixteen Doctoral students enrolled within the UoA during the REF period, with 8 completing
 during this time.
 Formalised in the institutional strategy 2016-21 and Impact2022, strategic priorities for research
 and knowledge exchange for the REF period were to:
    a) increase research and enterprise income to enable growth and investment
    b) improve the volume and quality of research outputs to grow international profile for
       excellence in fields of professional, creative and translational research and enterprise
       practice
    c) ensure that Research & Enterprise activity enriches and enhances the student
       experience
    d) secure improved external recognition of the contribution and impact of research and
       enterprise work.


 As part of the future strategy for research in this UoA, the university has recently launched the
 Institute for Health and Social Care (IHSC) which aims to provide strategic oversight for all
 health and social care activities across the University and to serve as the focal point for all
 external partners and stakeholders related to health and social care. The IHSC will serve as a
 “front door” to all our health provision at BNU and will shape and support the health and social
 care agenda in the region and across the UK. The Director, Professor Karen Buckwell-Nutt, will
 play a key role in developing and enabling the future research strategy for this UoA.


 Progress against these priorities is organised under three themes:
    1. Developing the health and social care workforce (Addis, Harrison-White)
    2. Evaluating and innovating healthcare practice (Addis, Trout)
    3. Public health and social inclusion (Henderson)



                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    1. Developing the health and social care workforce

 This theme continues as a longstanding areas of focus for Bucks. During the REF period,
 research in this area has been led by Procter, Martin and Addis and led to significant increases
 in income through NHS and Health Education England funding and has significantly enhanced
 the learning experience of the health and social care workforce. For example, funded by
 CWHHE CCG collaborative, BNU was commissioned to develop training for providers in North
 West (NW) London in relation to the Mental Capacity Act (MCA) and Deprivation of Liberty
 safeguards (DoLS). Training needs analyses were also conducted for the out of hospital
 workforce across Thames Valley (Addis) and to support integration of services and urgent care
 practices in NW London (Addis), funded by Health Education NW London.

 Working towards enhancing the learning experience of pre-registration nursing students,
 research has been undertaken to develop the role of nurse link lecturers through examining
 challenges facing student nurses in clinical learning environments (Harrison-White).

 Research aligned to this theme is expanding over the next REF period. The nursing and allied
 health expertise has grown to include specialisms such as operating theatre department practice
 and physician associate, with further expansion in progress to offer clinical training in
 physiotherapy, paramedic science, midwifery and occupational therapy. New academic staff
 recruited within these disciplines is enabling new research expertise in these areas. Research
 already in progress is investigating innovative training in physiotherapy and advanced
 professional practice in Oncology.

    2. Evaluating and innovating healthcare practice

 This theme emerged from the original broader nursing theme from REF2014, through
 partnerships developed across NW London and the South East through the former Institute of
 Nursing Research. A number of research streams have involved evaluation to enable innovation
 in healthcare practice. For example, the “Delivering Dignity through Empowered Leadership”
 project (Procter, Addis) was led by Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust with Kings College
 London and was funded by the Burdett Trust for Nursing as part of a study to improve dignity for
 older people in hospitals. Additional research has focussed on health and social care knowledge
 and management of pressure ulcers (Procter), end of life care (Procter, in partnership with South
 Bucks hospice), and an evaluation of the whole system integrated care model “My Care My
 Way” for a more coordinated and consistent care for adults aged 65 and over. An examination of
 the sexual experiences of women after spinal injury (Coggrave) was able to inform occupational
 therapy practices to support these women.

 A key achievement during the REF period was the development and validation of the 10-item
 Birth-Satisfaction-Scale-Revised (BSS-R) scale as a psychometrically valid and reliable birth
 satisfaction measure (Martin). It has become the ‘gold standard’ measure of birth experience,
 evidenced by expert consensus selection of the measure as the key index of birth experience in
 the International Consortium for Health Outcome Measures (ICHOM) Pregnancy and Childbirth
 Standard Set. Widely translated and in use in over 30 countries, the BSS-R has been utilised by
 both researchers and clinicians alike. Currently, over 100 investigations are underway using the
 BSS-R with 18 studies thus far reporting findings.

 Expertise in health care evaluation and innovation has led to development of a successful
 Diploma course for clinicians in health care innovation led by Procter, supported and funded by
 Imperial College health partners and Oxford Academic Health Science Network.

 Through partnership with the Universities of Ulster and Salford, Trout has explored nurses’
 experiences of applying painful stimuli when assessing components of the Glasgow Coma
 Scale.



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research aligned to this theme is expanding over the next REF period. In partnership with the
 research and innovation department of Buckinghamshire Healthcare NHS Trust, BNU is
 exploring areas related to ageing-well in older people and digital healthcare. As a result of the
 current pandemic there is a significant shift to digital enhanced healthcare service delivery. The
 impact and development of digital health and use of adaptive technologies will be a key area of
 research for academics in health-related and computing disciplines.


    3. Public health and social inclusion

 Research investigating health and social inclusion for marginalised communities is being
 reported within UOA 20 social policy and social work for REF 2021. In addition to this, research
 impacting public health has been completed by Henderson, building on work from Brodie’s
 former cardiovascular research team, in partnership with exercise science colleagues. The
 research has examined isometric exercise in pre-hypertensive and hypertensive participants.

 Public health and social inclusion remains a key area of focus within allied health for the future.
 As part of Bucks commitment as an institutional strategic priority focusing on widening
 participation, equality and inclusion, new initiatives are planned and developing aligned with this
 theme. As part of our partnership with Central and NW London NHS Trust, we are exploring new
 projects to evaluate healthcare provision for homeless people, recovery based projects for
 service users diagnosed with a mental health condition, the factors influencing Black and Ethnic
 Minority groups higher representation under the Mental Health Act (1983) within inpatient units
 and leadership programmes for BAME individuals (Rioga). Additionally, as part of developing
 innovative professional physiotherapy training, research is planned to examine access to such
 training by BAME students.

 Building on growth during the REF period, our 5 key future strategic objectives within these three
 themes are to:
     1. Achieve success in REF2021 by optimising performance across disciplines.
     2. Build capacity in distinctive engaged, research through increased and widened public
        and stakeholder engagement.
     3. Develop the number and significance of external research and enterprise partnerships to
        maximise access to funding, support knowledge exchange and research working towards
        attaining Research Degree Awarding Powers.
     4. Maximise the synergies between research, curriculum and teaching, contributing to future
        TEF submissions by ensuring that academics are able to exploit the two-way interplay
        between research and the development of new and existing curriculum and teaching.
     5. Increase the sustainability of research through defined research groupings with critical
        mass aligned with local, national and global priorities.


 The goals for enabling impact are aligned with the University key priorities of;

    •   applied research activity organised around the needs of users, building excellence
        aligned to key areas of distinction and strength;
    •   impactful research strengthens strategic relationships with key partners through
        collaboration and knowledge exchange;
    •   research impact is built into the curriculum;
    •   performance in REF 2021 successfully builds reputation;
    •   staff are encouraged and incentivised to engage in knowledge exchange activity,
        including consultancy, on behalf of the University.




                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In 2020 the University co-founded the Bucks Health and Social Care Academy (BHSCA) which
 includes membership from Buckinghamshire Council, Bucks College Group, Bucks Healthcare
 NHS Trust, Health Education England, Buckinghamshire LEP, the GP Federation and the
 Universities of Bedfordshire and Buckingham. BNU’s involvement in this Academy has led to
 the introduction of health and social care pathways aimed at increasing the nursing workforce
 and supporting members of the community from low social economic backgrounds to be enrolled
 in higher education programmes. Through the Academy, positive networks have been created
 and the Research and Knowledge Faculty Institute has been formed which aims to:
     • Develop research priorities in collaboration with local stakeholders
     • Pool the research capability and capacity across the Universities in the geographical area
     • Access research funding to deliver an evidence-base for high quality services
     • Deliver ongoing programme of knowledge exchange activities to engender a culture of
         continuous service improvement
     • Raise the profile of health and social care research and evidence based practice through
         knowledge exchange and research

 The Institute and the Academy will both help to ensure that our work in primary, social,
 intermediate and secondary health care is further developed and set in the context of national,
 regional and local workforce requirements and is supported by education frameworks developed
 in partnership with local colleagues and businesses. The frameworks will ensure stakeholder
 engagement is embedded within the research undertaken, and enable maximisation of impact.

 Open Access

 As outlined in the institutional environment statement, BNU has held a research repository since
 2006, and our open access policy (2015) outlines our commitment to:

        •       Provide greater visibility for BNU research, benefitting audiences of researchers,
                practitioners, and the public;
        •       Ensure long term preservation of outputs;
        •       Stimulate new research opportunities and collaborations;
        •       Enable compliance with funders’ requirements; and
        •       Enable the University to submit to future REFs.

 The University has adopted the Green route to open access as a sustainable approach. Staff are
 encouraged to upload all outputs including conference presentations, videos and original
 performance pieces to the repository to enhance public access for their research and improve
 impact. Bucks participated in the JISC open-data pilot project through GuildHE Research and
 will explore options to enable sustainable open data sharing through this affiliation. Staff are
 actively encouraged to publish and disseminate their research and are supported to present at
 national and international conferences, and to professional practice networks, and with practice
 partners eg: NHS Trusts). The university culture also encourages supervisors and students to
 publish jointly (e.g. McKenzie and Addis 2018, Haroune V. and King, 2020)

 Research Integrity

 The University is committed to upholding the highest standards in its research and to being fully
 compliant with UK Policy Framework for Health and Social Care Research from the Health
 Research Authority (HRA). In addition to institutional infrastructure, research requiring HRA
 ethics /R&D approvals is routed through the Research Unit where arrangements are made for
 proposals to be scrutinised to ensure they meet University requirements before they are
 considered for sponsorship.

 As outlined in the institutional statement, the University’s Research and Enterprise committee, a
 Senate sub-committee, has oversight of all institutional research activity, including research
 degrees. Membership includes Rioga, able to influence the University research agenda as a

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developing researcher. The Committee has responsibility for ensuring adherence with our Code
 of Good Research Practice and Research Ethics policies, both revised and updated in 2019.
 The Committee collates data annually for our compliance statement on the Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity and investigates any reports of research misconduct. The University
 Research Ethics Panel has a wide membership from across the university, with oversight of
 school sub-committees which review student research. Henderson and Addis are longstanding
 experienced members of this Committee, providing expert review of applications for approval
 and support for developing researchers seeking ethical approval. BNU subscribes to the UK
 Research Integrity Office and has completed the UKRIO self-assessment exercise during the
 REF period. Any new research staff are actively encouraged to observe the ethics committee
 meetings, both as part of their development and to engage new panel members.

 Support for interdisciplinary research

 BNU’s structure naturally supports synergies between different disciplinary research areas,
 which is then facilitated by centralised research support services. Staff undertaking research
 aligned to this UoA are in two schools, divided according to educational provision for pre and
 post registration healthcare. The IHSC is well positioned to ‘funnel’ external healthcare research
 opportunities and support cross-school engagement. Collaborations for research and scholarly
 activity are supported by cross-university events, benefitting specifically from cross working with
 sport and exercise science and psychology.

 BNU is a partner in the Bucks Academy research and knowledge exchange faculty, which
 provides opportunities for collaboration across professional groups, and disciplines. Early
 developments indicate strong partnership working and highlight an emerging area related to
 interdisciplinary safeguarding practices.

 Activities undertaken during the period have also included cross-disciplinary innovative teaching
 initiatives between performing arts and nursing, using BNU’s extensive nursing simulation
 facilities.


 2. People

 The Bucks Academic Framework (BAF) was introduced in 2019 which includes academic staff
 roles with research:
             •   Education with Research
             •   Research with Education
             •   Education with Professional Practice
             •   Professional Practice with Education

 The BAF provides a structure for staff recruitment and progression to the education with research
 track from lecturer through to professor, which enables the growth and development of research
 capacity within allied health. New Professorial appointments were made in 2020 in line with the
 BAF and policy for Career Development and Promotions for Academic Staff. In the initial round of
 appointments, Professors and Associate Professors were appointed in Nursing and Allied Health
 relating to Education and Professional Practice with the aim of appointing research-related
 associate professor and research professor roles over the coming 5 years.

 In 2020, the University introduced the Professoriate which comprises Professors and Associate
 Professors employed within the university and externally. The Professoriate has a leading role in
 the intellectual life of the university and has contributed to engagement with the public and
 community. A key objective of the Professoriate is supporting knowledge transfer through public
 lectures. Professor Karen Buckwell-Nutt facilitated, in collaborative with BHSCA Research and

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Knowledge Faculty, a virtual lectures series. Several Associate Professors and early career
 researchers from the health-related schools have contributed to these public lectures on subjects
 such as, ‘Social Media in Pre-Registration Nursing Education’, ‘Men in Nursing’ and Leadership
 Within BAME Context presented by Visiting Professor Yvonne Coghill OBE.

 We grow our postgraduate, doctoral and postdoctoral community by actively supporting students
 and academics to pursue further study and to engage in their programmes as researchers
 seeking to contribute to knowledge in their field of study. The expansion of the nursing and allied
 health educational provision has led to the recruitment of new staff and new opportunities to
 expand research in these areas which include: Operating Theatre Practice, Physiotherapy,
 Midwifery, Paramedicine and Occupational Therapy.


 Staffing strategy

 The University has a scholarship culture that underpins evidence-based teaching and
 translational research. The University requires that all job descriptions and person specifications
 for new appointments include research and publications and this now forms a key part of our
 promotion criteria. We actively employ and seek to recruit staff with MSc and doctorate level
 qualifications in nursing and allied health specialist areas. Additionally each school has been
 given an annual target for increasing staff engagement with research to promote scholarship
 activity ranging from developing early career academics to engage in research projects to
 supporting more experienced staff to pursue PhD and other relevant studies.


 The Bucks Academic Framework (BAF) used in the appraisal process clearly identifies
 academic staff on a research track and associated developmental support. Aligned with this
 UoA, 9 academics are on the Education with Research track, including the 4 academics with
 significant responsibility for research in this submission. Recent appointments to Head of
 School and Associate Head of School both have doctoral qualifications and the Head of School
 experience as a Principal Investigator. The staffing strategy for the School of Nursing and Allied
 Health includes the future appointment of a research professor for nursing and an associate
 professor of research and innovation to support the growth of research and scholarly activity.
 The IHSC will implement a research strategy to include honorary appointments with research
 active clinical staff. In addition, processes to support healthcare professional’s engagement in
 the Academic Career Framework will be developed.

 Research in this UOA and access to sources of funding is supported and enabled through
 honorary contracts with NHS Trusts, for both educational and research activity. For example,
 Crouchman has a contract with Hillingdon Hospital 2020 (COVID activity) and Northwick Park
 Hospital; Addis has an honorary contract with Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust). Such
 roles enable staff engagement in clinical research with the partner institutes, such as Addis’
 involvement in the study to improve dignity for older people in hospitals.


 Developing researchers

 As many academic staff join BNU directly from clinical practice, they are new to academic
 careers and research. Academic staff in this unit have been supported to undertake research
 degrees, either with a fee waiver within BNU or contribution to external fees and sabbatical
 periods to support writing up.

 As outlined in the institutional statement (paras 3.5 onwards) BNU uses the principles of the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers to underpin staff development for
 all academic staff. Our commitment to staff development is reflected in our Learning and
 Development Policy and supported by centralised funding. University career break and
 sabbatical policies are in place, for staff to manage personal circumstances or for dedicated

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 scholarly activity. Scholarly time is also agreed at a local level with line managers, according to
 expected outcome for the researcher such as publications. All researcher development
 opportunities available to research students (see below) are available to staff. Additional ECR-
 focused activities include research funding, grant camps, project management, getting published
 and being an entrepreneurial academic. Staff are supported to attend external sector events (eg
 UKRIO). Staff have access to research supervisor training through Staffordshire University and
 Epigeum’s online suite, and workshops led by the UK Council for Graduate Education. Staff on
 fixed-term, research-only contracts are eligible for all development opportunities open to other
 staff and PGR students, including funding for professional development and conference
 attendance.

 During the REF period, specific support mechanisms within this UOA have included a monthly
 writing support group and dedicated mentorship from Professors Procter and Martin. New
 seminar programmes and support groups are being implemented within the new Institute for
 Health and Social Care and through the Bucks Health and Social Care Academy.

 Staff who completed PhD or professional doctorate qualifications in this REF period are as
 follows:

    •   Dibley, L. (2015) A hermeneutic phenomenology study of the experience of stigma in
        people with Inflammatory Bowel Disease. BNU
    •   Williams, J. (2016) A qualitative exploration of the transmission of knowledge and skills
        by specialist stoma care nurses to facilitate the needs of patients adapting to a newly
        formed stoma. Kings College London
    •   Nathoo, S. (2017) An exploration of the concepts of compassion in the care of older
        people amongst key stakeholders in Nursing Education: pre-qualifying nursing students,
        nurse educators and clinical mentors – a Qualitative study. University of Portsmouth.
    •   Crouchman, C (2019) An Exploration Of The Views, Beliefs And Experiences Of UK
        Nurses And Midwives About Responding At Out Of Work Situations Where First Aid May
        Be Required. BNU
    •   Harrision-White, K. (2020) An investigation of student nurses experience of learning
        within the clinical learning environment. Kings College London
    •   Wright, J (2017) Alcohol, transitions and the university ‘bubble’: an ethnographic case
        study. BNU


 Support for Postgraduate research students

 As outlined in the institutional statement (paras 3.15 onwards), support for postgraduate
 research students and staff researcher development is delivered centrally. All students have
 access to a range of online learning. This includes Epigeum’s online research toolkit (with
 modules on methods, transferable skills, ethics and integrity) and from 2019, the UEA PGR
 online programme, covering methods, academic writing, teaching skills and completing a
 Doctorate. Monthly newssheets are disseminated, summarising local and external events and
 opportunities. GuildHE Research provides additional development and networking opportunities
 for both students and staff, including a 2-day annual summer school, academic writing month
 and a virtual doctoral training network.

 All PGR students are required to use the Vitae Researcher Development framework planner,
 with individual support for their researcher development plan. As most of Bucks’ PGR students
 are mature and part-time they are supported with a range of flexible opportunities. They also
 have access to resources provided by their validating partner who awards their degree.
 Enhanced researcher development and research culture for PGR students has been a key focus
 during the period, with success evidenced in PRES2020 overall satisfaction scores, with 85% of
 Bucks students being satisfied with their programme, 5% higher than the global benchmark and

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 substantially higher than the previous 2 years (67%, 58%). All research students can access
 postgraduate taught modules, in addition to dedicated workshops such as Quirkos, NVivo and
 academic writing.

 Students are encouraged to disseminate their research with dedicated PGR conferences held
 two or three times per year. University funding is available to support dissemination at national
 and international conferences during the REF period. They are also encouraged to publish their
 work through conference proceedings and in journals and our biannual newsletter, “Research
 Notes”. PGR students aligned to this UOA were supported to disseminate outcomes at
 conferences and professional practice events. Crouchman was supported to attend the
 International Nursing Research Conference in 2018 and Nathoo to attend World Nursing
 Congress 2019. Morrin was supported to present at the European College of Sports Science
 (2017). Sirpath was funded to present at the International Intraeptihelial Neoplasia Society
 conference in Georgia (2015).

 Potential research students are encouraged and supported to apply for external funding sources
 to support their studies. In addition, during the REF period, one full university-funded research
 studentship was offered to a student aligned to this UoA as a cross-disciplinary project between
 public health and exercise science. The project examined the development of a self-regulated
 isometric handgrip training protocol and its effects on blood pressure in pre-hypertensive and
 hypertensive adults (Morrin). A newly created Vice-Chancellor’s studentship scheme will fully
 fund up to two studentships per year from 2020-21 to encourage recruitment of full-time students
 and enhance PGR research culture.

 Eight doctoral students completed during the REF period within this UoA. These included the
 three staff with details given above (Dibley, Crouchman, Wright), three PhD students (Matthew,
 Guo and Leah) and two Professional Doctorate students (Sirpath, Seraj) as follows:

    •   Matthew, D (2014) The relationship between HRV (rMSSD) and other cardiovascular
        risks in healthy participants with chronic heart failure using novel instruments.
    •   Guo, L. (2015) Analysis of cardiovascular risk factors and effectiveness of interventions
        in UK health services.
    •   Leah, V. (2019) Maintaining my relative’s personhood: A mixed method design.
    •   Sirpath, A. (2020) Perceptions and Experiences of Patients and Clinicians in Anal
        Cytology Screening and High Resolution Anoscopy: A Hermeneutic Phenomenological
        Study.
    •   Seraj, A. (2019) Pedagogic strategies to support practice learning in specialised clinical
        learning environments: A Grounded Theory Approach.

 Equality and diversity

 BNU strives to create a work and study environment which is not only free from any form of
 discrimination but actively celebrates and values diversity. We are committed to equal
 opportunity across all the 'protected characteristics' defined in the Equality Act 2010. Equality,
 Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) underpins our values and influences everything we do. All staff
 recruitment and to research posts are undertaken in line with these values and with adherence
 to the BNU policies on equity and diversity.
 All existing and new staff are required to undertake training on equality and diversity as well as
 unconscious bias training. Bucks commitments and accreditations are outlined in the institutional
 statement. Bucks has the following accreditations and commitments:
     • ‘Disability Confident Employer’ accreditation from Jobcentre Plus
     • Mindful Employer charter signatory
     • Time to Change pledge
     • Member of Advance HE, running the Aurora programme for women’s leadership
         development in HE

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Commitment to Race Equality Charter, working towards application for the award in
        2020.
    •   HR Excellence in Research - working towards application
    •   Leading development of a HE sector pledge to support access to HE for Gypsy, Roma
        and Traveller communities.

 All processes and procedures outlined in the Bucks REF Code of Practice adhere to and follow
 guidelines and best practice recommendations in the following institutional policies and guides:
     • Staff Disability policy
     • Transgender policy
     • Maternity / Paternity / Shared parental leave policies
     • Equality analysis guide
     • Special leave policy
     • Dignity at work – bullying and harassment

 All research support facilities, resources and internal funding are open to all staff, irrespective of
 circumstances, contract hours and periods of absence. As with development activities for PGR
 students, our focus on providing a range of flexible development resources accessible on-site,
 remotely and as recorded/ self-paced online learning widens access to part-time staff and staff
 who are not always able to be on site. Access to such resources, both internally and in the
 sector, has increased during COVID-19.

 There is a diverse and vibrant team across nursing and allied health, and research is undertaken
 in collaboration with under-represented groups. We pride ourselves in being an institution that
 promotes widening participation supporting first generation graduates and growing early career
 academics and clinical colleagues to pursue research studies. For example, the team are working
 with one of the partner NHS Trusts to explore the disproportionate representation of people of
 black African and Caribbean heritage in crisis pathways and under Mental Health Act.

 BNU established the Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) Staff Network in 2020. The aim of
 our network is to provide a platform where members can learn about diversity in an inclusive and
 open environment, which promotes connectivity and personal growth. We believe in celebrating
 difference, raising awareness and promoting opportunities for attracting a diverse group of staff
 and students. The BAME Staff Network has a dedicated work stream for research. The aim of
 this workstream is to promote and signpost members to research opportunities, funding and
 training to empower more BAME staff to undertake research interests within and outside the
 organisation. This is to be achieved by:
      • Dedicated time and space for members to gain knowledge and skills on writing for
         publication
      • Providing support for writing proposals for funding streams
      • Opportunities for shared research projects across teams and communities
      • Conference opportunities, seminars and forums for sharing good practice and learning
      • The establishment of a research mentoring scheme

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 Much of our research income is derived from undertaking work locally for the NHS, social
 services, local authorities and charities. Examples of income generated include:

    •   Mental Capacity Act and Deprivation of Liberties (CWHHE, Martin/Procter) £191k

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Dignity in Health and Social Care (Burdett Trust, Procter / Addis, total £176k led by
        Imperial with Kings College London).
    •   Managing pressure ulcers (Health Education NW London CEPN, Procter £118k;
        Florence Nightingale Foundation, Newham; Imperial College Health Partners, Procter
        £47k)
    •   Sexual experiences post spinal injury (Stoke Mandeville Masson Research, Coggrave)
        (£61k). Funded by Stoke Mandeville Masson Research awards, this study investigated
        the sexual experiences of women with spinal cord injury to inform future advice and
        therapy given to patients.
    •   Future Care Training Needs Analysis of the Out of Hospital Workforce across Thames
        Valley (Schaub, Smith, Addis, Bridges, and Griffiths L. (50K) This project was
        commissioned by the Oxford Academic Health Sciences Network (OAHSN) and Health
        Education Thames Valley (HETV). They sought further clarity about the training needs of
        the community and primary care workforce as they move towards providing more
        integrated care, and more care in the community.
    •   Scoping of Training Needs to support Integration of Services & Urgent Care Practices in
        North West London (Griffiths/Addis; Health Education NWL, £66k). The overall aim of the
        scoping exercise was to establish the education and training needs of the
        interdisciplinary team to support the integration of services. The integration was to deliver
        the 'Shaping a healthier future' programme in order to improve NHS services for the
        population of North West London. This programme was a key priority for the eight CCGs,
        which comprise of GPs from NW London’s eight boroughs.

 Infrastructure

 Bucks QR funding to support research was in the region of £225k per year during the REF
 period. This is utilised to supplement staff allocated time to undertake research activity, a central
 administrative research unit and development and dissemination initiatives. All staff have
 dedicated time to undertake research, scholarly, enterprise or professional practice activity of
 550 hours per year. The activities undertaken and expected depend on selected BAF track as
 outlined above and School priorities.

 The strong legacy left behind from the researchers that have left BNU since REF2014 underpins
 the research culture and has attracted new early career researchers to the University. In
 addition, the ongoing alliances with NHS organisations and collaborative partnerships provide a
 firm foundation to support research activities.

 A research forum has been established for nursing, midwifery and allied health to provide peer
 support and advice for early career researchers, with opportunities to share their ideas, gain
 support and present their research for feedback. This has enabled staff to engage in projects at
 different levels and develop their research careers. The current projects include;

    •   A study exploring the experiences of final year pre-registration nursing students working
        on the frontline during the first wave of the covid-19 pandemic
    •   Effects of a short-term teaching intervention to improve first year nursing students’
        engagement with medical terminology.
    •   An evaluation of the Peer Enhanced E-Portfolio (PEEP) in a Mental Health Pre-
        Registration Nursing Programme in Higher Educations. This is a funded project by Health
        Education England.
    •   Westminster learning Review into the experiences of rough sleepers and access to
        mental health services. This is funded by one of the School’s partner NHS Trusts –
        Central and NW London NHS Foundation Trust.




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Exploration of the disproportionate representation of people of black African and
        Caribbean heritage in crisis pathways & under MHA [1/2]. This is funded by Central NW
        London NHS Foundation Trust.
    •   Strengthening skills to protect health in care homes by use of RESTORE2 physical
        health screening tool. This project has led to a funded PhD opportunity for staff through
        partnership working with The University of Oxford, the NIHR Oxford and Thames Valley
        Applied Research Collaboration, Institute of Health and Social Care and
        Buckinghamshire Health and Social Care Academy

 Additional resources and facilities are available through Bucks affiliation with GuildHE Research,
 the research consortium for smaller and specialist universities and colleges. This affiliation
 greatly enhances Bucks research environment, through access to a range of training
 opportunities, sector support, networking and partnerships. In addition, it enables access to a
 range of resources through framework agreements which would not otherwise be financially
 viable, including e-prints repository, Vitae, the Vitae Researcher Development Framework
 licence, UEA PGR programme and Vertigo Ventures Impact tracker.

 Additional sector support is achieved through professional memberships, such as the UK
 Council for Graduate Education providing support for research supervisors. As a member of UK
 Research Integrity Office, staff regularly attend the UKRIO annual conferences and webinars.

 During the REF period, staff were able to competitively apply for internal funding, as seed project
 funding or to support completion of a research degree. Four staff received seed funding to
 support research activities aligned to this UoA, representing a total investment of over £90,000
 for research and staff PGR studies related to this unit. Studies completed included: a systematic
 review of compassion and its implications for professional practice in healthcare; an
 examination of the impact of innovation on community health professionals clinical practice; and
 a study undertaken in collaboration with Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust exploring
 nursing practice for patients at risk of falls.


 Facilities

 Researchers and students have access to world-class fully equipped clinical skills labs/specialist
 equipment with state of the art video simulation facilities. In addition to the existing nursing-
 dedicated facilities at the Uxbridge campus, facilities have been expanded during the REF
 period, with the addition of operating department practice and physician associate simulation
 suites in High Wycombe. Investment over £1.7m in Aylesbury campus facilities for nursing
 training includes high-fidelity simulation suites and enhanced teaching and learning
 technologies.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations, networks and partnerships

 We have an extensive range of productive collaborations and partnerships. We have had a
 professorial partnership with Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust since 2009, held by Procter
 from 2013. This has been successful in initiating research into improving the patient experience
 of hospital care and in supporting nursing staff in the Trust to apply for fellowships from the
 National Institute for Health Research (NIHR). Procter was working with the Biomedical
 Research Centre at the Trust to establish a funded career pathway for nurses, allied health
 professionals and pharmacists to support promising academic clinicians from qualification
 through to post-doctoral research. Continuing this partnership, Addis has an honorary post at the
 Trust, in addition to links with Kings College London for completion of the Dignity in care
 research.



                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Addis is networking with several Turkish Universities (e.g. Erasmus staff exchange with Koç
 University Istanbul as well as key speaker on several international nursing conferences that
 hosted by different universities (Koç University, Mugla University, Sakarya University) on
 evidence based practice, mentorship.

 In addition to her role at Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, Procter was clinical research
 network lead NW London for health services research (CRN NIHR). She is also a member of the
 board of trustees for the General Nursing Council Trust for England and Wales. GNCT seeks to
 promote the development of nursing for the benefit of society. This is achieved by funding
 research into nursing policy and practice. The Trustees are also committed to advancing the
 education of student nurses and further education of Registered Nurses.

 Martin had a joint post with the West London Mental Health NHS Trust. He also worked with the
 National Perinatal Epidemiology Unit (NPEU) at Oxford University. This multidisciplinary group
 comprises statisticians, epidemiologists, psychologists, psychiatrists, and health economists. His
 work with this group has contributed to the development of a number of health measures. His
 outputs are defined by interdisciplinary working, with a focus on the interface between physical
 and mental health requiring interdisciplinary collaboration.

 Martin has extensive international collaborations in relation to integrative physical-mental health
 care. Supported by an EU grant, he was involved in establishing a collaborative centre for a
 Family Health Nursing project comprising 14 European partners. He also has extensive
 collaborations in Hamburg and Hanover including PhD students and University partners. His
 academic network has extended worldwide through translation, validation and use of the Birth
 Satisfaction scale (see impact case study), with new collaborators in the US, Australia, Greece
 and Iran.

 Trout works with colleagues at the Universities of Ulster and Salford looking at nurses’ use of the
 Glasgow Coma scale. As part of Brodie’s team, from 2014 Henderson worked with the
 Cardiology Unit at Wycombe General Hospital investigating the effects of concurrent exercise
 training on exercise tolerance, muscle architecture and metaboreflex activity in patients with
 heart failure.


 Wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy and society

 Trout was a member of the British Association of Neuroscience Nurses Board from 2010-2017,
 attending meetings and conferences representing BANN and UK neuroscience nurses. She has
 also been lead organiser for the 2017 BANN conference in Oxford attended by over 400
 delegates and represented BANN at the European and Worldwide umbrella networks. In her
 BANN role, she has been part of working parties authoring policy documents such as safe
 staffing guidelines for neuroscience patients. She was a member of the working party for the
 international group which developed an evidence-based policy document for healthcare
 professionals and policy makers on the need to prioritise brain health published in 2019. (Time
 matters: A call to publicize brain health). The report presented an expert, evidence-based
 position for policy recommendations that encourage individuals to participate actively in
 prioritising their own brain health. It also challenges policymakers, researchers, funding bodies
 and healthcare professionals to collaborate in planning for the healthcare structures of the
 future.

 Williams is a member of the Association of Stoma care nurses (ASCN UK) and is involved in the
 development and evaluation of a risk assessment tool in order to prevent parastomal hernia
 formation.

 Addis was invited to lead a workshop for `assessment in practice` and give a presentation about
 good practices in nursing education in the UK at the International Nursing Conference in Turkey,
 2019. In 2018, she was invited to talk about the changing and enhancing nurses’ role in the UK

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 at the Eastern Mediterranean University, Northern Cyprus. She was invited to speak at the 5th
 International Congress of Current Approaches in Nursing, Turkey on evidence-based practice
 and Nursing in 2018.

 Harrison-White was the account manager with Bucks Healthcare Trust, working with them at a
 strategic level, embedding current business and identifying and developing new areas of
 collaboration between the Trust and the University, including development of the Bucks Health
 and Social Care Academy.

 Editorial boards
 British Journal of School Nursing - Editorial board member (until 2019; Hayward)
 British Journal of Child Health – Editorial Board Member (since 2019 and current; Hayward)
 Gastrointestinal Nursing Journal, consultant editor (Williams)
 British Journal of Nursing and Gastrointestinal supplement (Williams)

 Journal reviewers
 Mark Allen journals reviewer (Hayward; Williams)
 Comprehensive Child and Adolescent Nursing journal (Hayward)
 Nurse Education Today (Addis)
 International Nursing Review (Addis)




                                                                                         Page 13
