Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Edge Hill University

 Unit of Assessment: Biological Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Biological Sciences at Edge Hill University (EHU)
 Biological science research at EHU sits within the Biology Department. We are a small UOA with
 9.5 FTE academic staff with a trajectory of growth since 2013, which is set to continue (a further
 two new ECR appointments since census date), demonstrating vitality and future sustainability.
 Our mission is to develop world class and innovative biological research that significantly
 benefits wider society, whilst providing a supportive environment to nurture the next generation
 of research scientists. We believe that instilling a passion for biological exploration should begin
 at an early career stage and place high importance on research training for postdoctoral and
 postgraduate researchers, and also our undergraduates.

 Our research comprises three interlinked themes of biology:
    a) Ecology, incorporating population and community ecology, sustainable ecosystem
        management, conservation, parasite-vector interactions and climate change modelling.
    b) Genetics and evolution, including taxonomy, speciation, gene expression, antibiotic
        discovery and vector biology.
    c) Biomedical science, incorporating research into rare skin diseases, gene and RNA
        therapies, microbial infections and pregnancy complications.

 Since REF2014 EHU has been in period of growth that has seen it place greater emphasis on
 research. It has recruited research-active academics and supported their development as
 researchers. Previously, biology research was situated in a multi-disciplinary natural sciences
 department; however, EHU recognised the potential to develop research and teaching in the
 discipline and established the Biology Department in 2012. It employed research active staff,
 established state-of-the-art research facilities, hired skilled technicians and funded PhD
 studentships. Since REF2014, we have seen significant growth in research outputs, income and
 training provision. Consequently, we are now in the position to make our first REF submission to
 the Biological Sciences UOA.

 1.2 Achievement of strategic aims
 Over this REF cycle our strategic aims have been to:

    1) Strengthen research capacity to facilitate excellent research under our two established
       themes of ecology, and genetics and evolution and to develop our emerging theme in
       biomedical science (section 1.2.1).
    2) Establish a nurturing and productive research culture that provides training and
       development opportunities for our biologists, irrespective of their career stage or
       background (section 1.2.2).
    3) Develop research with significant wider impact, consolidating links in our existing
       networks of beneficiaries in ecology, genetics and evolution, and developing the
       biomedical science theme (section 1.2.3).

 1.2.1 Strengthen research capacity
 EHU has supported a significant number of new academic appointments to our UOA; more than
 doubling in size from four FTE in REF2014 to 9.5 in REF2021. We have recruited staff who are
 active researchers by ensuring new staff have post-doctoral experience. Appointments have
 been strategic, allowing us to develop the biomedical science theme (3.5 FTE), whilst
 consolidating existing strengths in the fields of ecology (3 FTE) and genetics and evolution (3
 FTE). Crucially, this has been coupled with significant investment in infrastructure for the UOA,



                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 amounting to £17m since 2013 (section 3.2). This has allowed us to broaden substantially the
 scope of our research.

 1.2.2 Establish a nurturing and productive research culture
 We have achieved this by encouraging opportunities for collaboration and development amongst
 colleagues of different career stage or subdiscipline of biology. For instance, early career
 researchers (ECRs) join PhD supervisory teams at the earliest opportunity, paired with more
 experienced colleagues in a mentor role (section 2.2). Our UOA research coordinator has
 established internal peer-reviews of draft funding bids by experts in their sub-discipline and by
 biologists from a different research theme. Our postgraduate coordinator has introduced an
 annual forum providing opportunities for presentation of research by our postgraduate
 researchers (PhD and MRes) with peers from other disciplines (section 2.3). Together with
 EHU’s Research Office and Graduate School, these coordinators initiate development
 opportunities for staff and PGRs on best practice for research design, management and
 implementation to ensure professional and ethical standards are met (sections 2.2, 2.3). Such a
 sharing of good practice means our researchers draw on a body of experience across the sub-
 disciplines of our UOA and beyond, to ensure that our research is conducted with integrity, and
 to support their professional development. Our approach to managing and promoting research
 ethics are outlined in section 3.

 1.2.3 Develop research with significant wider impact
 Wider impact has long been central to our research; in REF2014 our research was one of the
 two impact cases for the Geography and Environment UOA. Our aim is to develop research with
 global significance, which aligns with local, national, and for the first time, international
 challenges (e.g. UN Sustainable Development Goals) (section 4.3). We achieve this by working
 closely with research users from the outset, including them in research planning such that they
 may shape questions and outcomes, thus we are able to develop practical, evidence-based
 solutions. The success of this strategy is exemplified by our impact cases. Research led by
 Ashton, working with Natural England, on genetic connectivity of meadow plant species has
 revealed the importance of landscape scale fragmentation to grassland conservation. Further
 work revealed optimal grazing regimes to maintain invertebrate diversity in grasslands of
 European conservation importance, where previous research on management focused solely on
 plant diversity. This research has changed conservation practice implemented by NGOs and
 informed management guidance released by government agencies both nationally and locally.
 Research led by Strode determined that insecticide treated bed nets (ITN) have a greater
 efficacy against insecticide resistant malaria vector mosquitoes than non-ITNs, despite some
 mosquitoes increasing resistance to pyrethroid insecticides. This has directly inspired NGOs,
 such as the Malaria Consortium, to advocate for the continued procurement of ITNs. It has also
 been used by the World Health Organisation as evidence for the continued benefits of ITN
 distribution to reduce malaria cases in Africa and to reassure the 50% of African households
 already in possession of ITNs.

 1.3 Demonstrating research strategy success
 The aim of our small, but highly motivated team of academic staff is to carry out excellent and
 impactful research, train researchers and engage in their own development. By strengthening
 our research capacity, establishing a nurturing research culture and putting impact at the
 forefront of our research, we have seen:
     1) Significant research-related career progression:
         Evidenced by four academics being promoted to reader and one to professor in a
         UOA of 9.5fte (section 2.2).
     2) Increased numbers of postgraduate awards:
         Evidenced by a substantial increase in PhD awards, from one in REF2014 to nine in
         REF2021.
     3) Greater success in grant capture:




                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Our UOA has experienced significant growth in research funding, totalling £383k in
       income. We now lead large external grants for the first time, with postdoctoral
       appointments.
    4) Growth in high-quality outputs in international peer-reviewed journals:
       Article publication has increased from 85 in REF2014 period to 134 in REF 2021
       period, including articles in the world’s top 5% of most highly-cited papers (e.g.: Batke et
       al, 2016; Oxbrough et al, 2017; Strode et al, 2014), and we experienced a 45%
       increase in the number of outputs per year in peer reviewed journals.
    5) Wider impact resulting from our research:
       We are expanding engagement with research users; for the first time this includes
       biomedical impact with broad-ranging international beneficiaries (section 4.3).

 1.4 Strategic aims post-REF2021
 Our mission is to develop our small and vibrant research community in a way that produces
 excellent and innovative mono- inter- and multi-disciplinary research, academic and wider
 impact relevant at local, national and international levels. To achieve this, our strategic aims for
 the next REF cycle are to:

    1) Ensure sustainability and vitality of each research theme, initiate and maintain fruitful
       interactions with the Data Science STEM Research Centre, and promote a cohesive
       ethos amongst all members of the UOA as we grow by generating research income and
       investing in the next generation of researchers (SA.1).
    2) Maintain our core ethos of researcher development and training at all career stages in an
       inclusive way, promoting equality and diversity (SA.2).
    3) Continue to produce research with wider impact in our established themes of ecology,
       and the genetics and evolution themes, and grow wider impact in the biomedical science
       theme by working closely with Edge Hill University Medical School (established 2020)
       and engaging with research users at all stages of the research process (SA.3).
    4) Conduct work with high levels of integrity and ensure open and reproducible research
       (SA.4)

 We will actively promote greater cohesion within and between our existing research themes by
 developing more formal research groups for each and by optimising collaborations (SA.1,3). To
 build on the current ad hoc researcher meetings, we will establish an internal and external
 identity for each, promote its research and researchers, develop collaborative opportunities and
 provide training for ECRs and PGRs (SA.2). These research groups will have a fluid
 membership recognising the interlinked nature of our research themes (e.g. ecological genetics
 or evolutionary biomedical science). Each group, led by a core team of academics and PGRs,
 will meet regularly to implement strategy for developing and promoting open research,
 collaboration and wider impact (SA.1,2,3,4). The groups will seek to strengthen and develop
 existing collaborations (e.g. Medical School, Computer Science Department, Geography
 Department), which already co-supervise PGRs (section 4.1). An important element of our
 strategy is to develop new and emerging inter- and multi-disciplinary collaborations, particularly
 between UOA members and EHU’s STEM Data Centre (with Geography and Computer Science
 disciplines) and the newly formed SustainNET - a multi-disciplinary network seeking research
 solutions to global sustainability challenges.

 As a small UOA, developing cross-institution collaboration, including shared use of our research
 infrastructure, is an important mechanism to sustain and further develop capacity for research
 (SA.1). Individual researchers will build on existing successful collaborations (sections 3.2.2,
 4.1), and research groups will target emerging opportunities established by EHU: a recent
 example of the latter is an agreement with Chongqing Normal University, China, to establish joint
 research programmes with co-supervised PhDs.

 We will enhance our approach to equality issues and promote diversity in our research and its
 impact across all academic levels (SA.2). This will include seeking Athena Swan accreditation

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for our department, ensuring diversity in presenters at research seminars and ensuring that
 training activities for academics, PGRs and students on our taught programmes are open and
 accessible to all. These activities will be led by newly appointed Equality and Diversity
 Champions (EDCs), including academic, PGR and UG representatives. Working with the
 research groups, they will coordinate initiatives to promote equality and widening participation,
 core values of EHU, to our aspiring biologists. We will be focusing on attracting under-
 represented groups to work and study at Edge Hill. Given our relative under-representation of
 ethnic diversity, the EDCs will help to identify strategies to tackle this, as well as engaging with
 other under-represented groups: this will be an action throughout the new REF period (and
 already evidenced by post-REF2021 appointments which have increased our ethnic diversity).

 Following the principles outlined in the EHU’s Statement on Open Research, our researchers
 have begun developing a UOA-specific strategy to ensure best practice on reproducibility whilst
 contributing to open research (SA.4). Data management planning, using DMP Online, is a
 requirement for research design for all projects, including PGR which stipulates how data will be
 archived and curated to facilitate open access, typically using EHU’s data repository following
 FAIR principles (findable, accessible, interoperable, re-usable). We prioritise the use of gold
 open-access publishing, using the many deals the University has, and we ensure all researchers
 are aware of any new agreements: the UOA has also secured OA funding from the University
 (which received no transition funds). The University prioritises gold OA for research that is of
 particular benefit to countries on the ODA list. If gold-OA is not possible, we commit to green-OA
 or self-archiving. We encourage greater use of open-source software (e.g. R statistical
 computing) and archiving of outputs/data to facilitate reproducibility. Academics and PGRs will
 be trained in these principles by departmental research and PGR coordinators and our newly
 established research groups will have an important role in sharing and developing best practice
 in conventions across biological sub-disciplines.

 We will promote sustainability by increasing external research income, delivering larger projects
 and establishing a post-doctoral community (SA.1). Indeed, we see developing postdoctoral
 opportunities as key to research development; these researchers can mentor PGRs, whilst
 engaging in supervised professional development (SA.2). We will continue to seek out key
 collaborators to develop excellent and impactful research on smaller-scale research projects
 which provide solutions to problems of regional or national importance (SA.3). Research
 beneficiaries will be included in the early stages of project development to ensure end user-
 relevant impact (SA.3). We will continue to provide the opportunity for researchers at all career
 stages (including PGRs, MSc, UGs) to be involved in high quality research with impactful
 outcomes (SA.2).

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy, equality and diversity
 We are a diverse and vibrant UOA, with researchers from a variety of backgrounds, career
 stages and biological sub-disciplines. Our academics hail from six countries and so we benefit
 from a wide range of international perspectives. Our staffing strategy supports our vision to
 produce high quality, innovative and applied research; the knowledge created is transferred
 through teaching and impact activities. We recruit on merit, prioritising talented individuals who
 show promise for lifelong learning and development, and add breadth and depth to our UOA,
 whilst being inclusive of protected characteristics; this reflects our commitment to the principles
 of the ‘Concordat to support the career development of researchers’.

 We proudly follow in the footsteps of EHU’s early commitment to enhancing opportunities for
 women. Our UOA has promoted women and endorsed female leadership: e.g., our senior
 academic team, with significant roles in decision-making in the UOA, comprises one professor
 and four readers with a 3:2 female:male gender ratio. Overall, we have a 50:50 female:male
 ratio (compared with sector average of 44:56). 10% of our staff have disclosed a disability
 (sector average is just 3%), and 10% of our staff identify as BAME against the sector average of

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 14%. 70% of our staff are in the 35-49 years age category and reflect our more concentrated
 age profile. The age profile is partly a product of our small size and reflects our policy to employ
 academics with significant postdoctoral experience who can drive research growth. All bar one
 of the seven staff recruited during this REF cycle are in their first teaching post and four of these
 were ECRs on appointment (since the census date we have appointed a further two ECRs). We
 are proud of the support and development we offer that has resulted in staff arriving as ECRs
 and achieving promotion (including three to readerships). Our commitment to promoting diversity
 is also reflected in our PGR community; our ten PhD students hail from five different countries
 with 40% identifying as BAME.

 Our UOA takes a flexible and inclusive approach to working patterns, aiming to support staff in
 achieving academic success whilst benefitting from a positive and productive work-life balance
 reflecting their individual needs. Our staff can utilise weekly working-from-home days (pre-
 COVID19), informally agreed flexible working hours, phased return after extended periods of
 leave (e.g. maternity or sickness) and days in lieu for weekend teaching or research travel. We
 facilitate academics managing workload around personal circumstances. This strategy benefits
 all staff to achieve a work-life balance, but is particularly important for those with a disability,
 caring responsibilities or those who undertake a significant degree of weekend teaching or
 research fieldwork. Reduced research and impact activity due to extended periods of leave is
 not a barrier to promotion: two staff members have taken maternity leave during the REF cycle
 and both have progressed (to senior lecturer and reader respectively). Furthermore, recruitment
 to a 1.0 FTE post was reduced to 0.5 FTE following a request to accommodate personal
 circumstances: the incumbent subsequently gained an internal research grant and promotion.

 2.2 Staff development
 Our approach to staff development reflects our research ethos - to provide a supportive
 environment to nurture our researchers, no matter their career stage or background. Our support
 is focused on induction, development and progression so people can realise their potential. We
 have seen significant progression since 2014, with 60% of our staff promoted and 50% to a role
 explicitly recognising research leadership and excellence. Within these, two ECRs have
 progressed from lecturer, one to senior lecturer, the other to reader. More experienced
 researchers have achieved promotion; one reader to professor, and three (who arrived as
 ECRs) from senior lecturer to reader, demonstrating the success of our progression pathways
 for academics at all career stages.

 Career development and progression are strongly encouraged by UOA managers, with needs
 identified through EHU’s annual performance and development review (PDR). Integral to the
 review is encouraging research(er) development and success, whilst maintaining a good work-
 life balance. Our development strategy has two key elements:

 1) Developing research leaders. We believe in learning-by-doing, and so we allocate research
 leadership roles, such as UOA research coordinator, to early or mid-career researchers, under
 the mentorship of more experienced colleagues. On arrival, staff are given a mentor/buddy,
 generally from a different research cluster, to foster interdisciplinary exchange. Our academics
 attend EHU’s researcher-development workshops (e.g. on research project management,
 leadership, ethical governance) and our PGR coordinator leads annual training on supervising
 PGRs in biology. This training typically sets scenarios (e.g. ethics, risk assessment, personal or
 progress issues) and the staff team discuss solutions. Both internal and external funding bids
 can be peer-reviewed before they are submitted to the Research Office for institutional peer
 review. We ask both experienced academics and ECRs to carry out reviews, so that all may
 benefit from the process. We also prioritise ECRs as lead PGR supervisor, under the mentorship
 of a more experienced colleague.

 We continued our inclusive ethos in our REF preparations. All academics and fellows were
 involved; we value the opinions of all researchers, no matter their career stage or background;
 further, it is a useful development exercise. REF5b was a collaborative effort; small academic

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 groups, each with diversity in career stages and biology subdisciplines, developed individual
 sections. The UOA coordinators integrated these into the narrative. The coordinators ensured
 that all staff understood the REF Code of Practice, particularly that inclusion of outputs or
 identification of SRR had no bearing on career progression. Staff members submitted up to 10
 outputs for peer review by two colleagues: for the purposes of training and transparency,
 reviews were available to all. We established a REF2 advisory group of four academics
 reflecting different career stages, including ECR, age profiles and nationalities and with gender
 balance. The group calibrated peer-review scores and additional reviews, including external peer
 review, were sought to help settle disagreements. This group made final recommendations to
 EHU’s REF Decision Panel based on merit, with consideration to exemplify excellent research
 from all three themes and EDI representation as identified in REF Code of Practice procedures
 for selecting outputs. As a small team, minor changes influence the balance of outputs selected
 across our staff; however, the outputs selected broadly represent the equality characteristics of
 our UOA: a balance of 59:42% female to male (staff gender ratio 50:50%); the 35-49 age range
 (70% of staff) contributing 80% of outputs, and ECRs (20% of staff) contributing 17% of outputs.
 This data supports our approach to staff research development, encouraging all to succeed in a
 flexible way that meets their needs; all staff with SRR have been able to contribute fully to
 outputs for submission, even where several protected characteristics (identified by the sector as
 reducing research productivity) intersect.

 2) Supporting academics to do research. All new staff are given a 33% reduction in teaching
 allocation in their first 12-18 months to establish research plans. For more experienced staff
 there is a fluid approach to teaching timetabling, such that planned research deadlines can be
 avoided or teaching delivery delegated. ECRs are encouraged to apply for EHU’s competitive
 Research Investment Fund (RIF) in their first year. RIF has several strands, including targeted
 seed-funding for ECRs, and pump priming and impact related projects for more experienced
 researchers: e.g. when ECRs Oxbrough received £44k for teaching relief and a research
 assistant for 12 months, resulting in several publications, and Charnock was awarded £37k to
 support a research assistant and consumables for research that is ongoing. Staff have used
 internal research support funds for short sabbaticals and teaching buy-out. Nearly all staff
 members, including part-time and fixed-term staff, have received support from University funds
 (£349k in total during the REF cycle) to carry out research, including international fieldwork
 travel or conference travel, where required. These funds have been central to researchers’
 profile development and promotion, and this support has been vital in establishing this new
 department.

 The UOA encourages academics to undertake external or internal training to develop new
 research skills, and academics are expected to identify conference opportunities at annual
 review. Indeed, since 2014, the UOA has provided a substantial sum - £140k, to support
 research training, research related travel and conference attendance, with an additional £9k
 funded through the RIF. Finally, EHU has supported significant investment in facilities and
 infrastructure to directly support the research of new staff and ECRs (section 3.2).

 Our small size means that informal social gatherings of staff and PGRs occur regularly and
 contribute to a welcoming atmosphere and a sense of belonging; these are critical to maintaining
 the wellbeing of our researchers. We use informal opportunities to provide mentorship to new
 staff. For instance, all academics share offices, and we pair new staff with more experienced
 academics, and usually from a different research theme. This approach enables new staff to
 integrate easily into the UOA, ensures cohesion between sub-disciplines, provides opportunities
 for development of cross-disciplinary research and allows sharing of experiences that are
 different among sub-disciplines.

 2.3 Research students
 Investing in PGRs is core to our vision to ensure the sustainability of the discipline, both
 generally and at EHU, and helps maintain the vitality of the UOA. PGRs are vital to our
 community and we take pride in the high quality and range of research training we provide. Our

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PhD students are predominantly funded through EHU’s GTA scheme which provides them with
 a rounded academic experience. Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework (RDF) informs
 our approach to researcher development. After enrolment, PGRs attend training on developing
 hypotheses, project design and implementation, ethics, governance, professionalism, integrity
 and wider impact (RDF all domains) provided by the Graduate School. These activities are
 supplemented by our PGR coordinator who provides training on conventions specific to biology
 on ethical and H&S procedures, laboratory use, scientific conduct, publication process and bias.
 Initial supervisor meetings guide PGRs through project planning including consideration of
 literature, methods, ethics and wider impact. This latter aspect encourages students to identify
 impact beneficiaries and design an impact plan. The success of this is evidenced by our impact
 cases, with PGR research integral to both (domain D). Training is monitored through annual
 learning needs analysis with supervisors to identify training needs. PGRs can attend in-house
 training delivered by technicians or as part of M-level courses. External training funded through
 the UOA has included cutting edge molecular biology techniques at the German Cancer
 Research Centre or the latest bioinformatic tools on metabolite discovery at the John Innes
 Centre, UK (RDF domain A).

 Our PGRs meet with supervisors formally at least 10 times per year, meetings which are
 complemented by informal gatherings of PGRs, supervisors and other UOA researchers
 facilitated by shared spaces (e.g. over coffee) (domain A). We view these as important
 opportunities for encouraging exchange among the research groups (all domains), as well as
 promoting wellbeing.

 Our GTAs are supported by teaching mentors and we consider development of science
 communication key to building a successful academic career (domain B). Over three years they
 progress from mentoring small undergraduate groups to delivering classes. GTAs attend key
 modules on the Post-Graduate Certificate in Teaching in Higher Education (without fees) and
 several have completed the full PGCTHE and become HEA fellows, thereby enhancing their
 employability. Non-GTA PGRs are also given the opportunity to undertake teaching activities as
 paid demonstrators and, latterly, tutors and can also undertake the PGCTHE. Under supervision,
 PGRs have the opportunity of mentoring undergraduate research projects, an excellent learning
 experience.

 Our PGR coordinator organises an annual PGR conference which gives students the opportunity
 to present their work to an audience of researchers from the UOA and other disciplines (Physical
 Geography, Computer Science), promoting exchange of ideas amongst STEM subjects (RDF
 domains B, D). All PGRs are expected to attend our research seminar series and attend
 conferences to present research. National conferences are funded by the UOA and international
 ones jointly with the Graduate School’s PGR Bursary Scheme.

 Our MRes students enjoy the same range of development opportunities as our PhD researchers,
 including external training and conference support. Our MRes students complete a substantial
 piece of research, with 6 months of data collection. The high quality of research skills they
 develop whilst studying with us is evidenced by 43% of MRes graduates going on to PhD study
 and 36% working as professional scientists in industry or academia. Some MRes projects have
 been published in peer-reviewed journals.

 The diverse range of nationalities in our PGR community is testament to being able to attract the
 best international candidates but we strive to expand the pool. In the future we will look to
 expand the promotion of PGR opportunities beyond our own networks and via social media to
 work with the International Office and Student Recruitment to reach under-represented groups.

 Alongside our commitment to academic and PG researchers, our ethos is inclusive: we support
 post-doctoral technicians to engage in research projects towards achieving an independent
 research career and also provide our UGs and PGTs with research opportunities, developing a
 project from proposal planning through to production of a thesis in journal style. They have won
 external funding and presented their work to research users.

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 1.1 Research funding and strategies for generating income
 To support our capacity building (strategic aim 1) we are increasingly focusing on grant capture.
 We have done this by:
     a) Focusing on improving the quality of bids through use of internal funds and ‘proof of
        concept’ mechanism along with staff development (see section 2.2);
     b) Researching opportunities for external funding, e.g., LEP/local priorities, UKRI Roadmap,
        industrial strategy, global challenges;
     c) Establishing track record through successful bidding for modest amounts;
     d) Seeking out prospective collaborators (academic and industrial) as bids partners (see
        section 4.1);
     e) Submitting bigger bids to the research councils and other funders with higher cost-
        recovery rates and which support post-doctoral researchers.

 To deliver our strategy, the expectation is that academics will submit one small (£10-50k)
 funding bid per year and one large (£50k+) bid every three years. We encourage all new staff,
 particularly ECRs, to apply for internal funding to help develop their independent research
 profile, to develop proof of concept or basic data collection to strengthen bids. We have
 supported our researchers to target income from research councils (e.g. peer review, writing
 time), as well as seeking opportunities with industry and non-governmental organisations
 (NGOs).

 This strategy has led to significant success; our researchers have secured a total of £389k in
 income over this REF cycle, 50% of which was generated by ECRs. This includes two British
 Council Newton Fund Grants: Fernández-Martínez was awarded £77k to lead research on the
 identification of natural products from Colombian actinomycetes in collaboration with researchers
 at Corpogen NGO, Colombia and Strode was awarded £134k to lead research on insecticide
 resistance status of the mosquito vectors of dengue in partnership with the Universidad de
 Antioquia, Colombia (impact case). Recently, our aim to provide postdoctoral training was
 achieved for the first time when Fernández-Martínez was awarded a BBSRC project grant
 (£411k, Grant Ref: BB/S016651/1) to explore the production of cryptic antibiotics in
 Streptomyces strains. As PI, she leads a team of researchers from the John Innes Centre and
 Strathclyde University. We have also generated income from commissioned research: Strode
 reviewed the impact of insecticide resistance on the effectiveness of insecticide-treated nets as
 a malaria control intervention for the World Health Organisation (WHO) (£19k). Tagalakis has
 begun working with Nanogenics, a siRNA therapeutics company, on a £50k contract.

 We have continued working with national NGOs to deliver impactful research, often supported
 with match-funding or in-kind contributions from EHU. For instance, Oxbrough received £43k
 from the Scottish Forestry Trust for a collaborative PhD with Forest Research, on functional
 diversity in plantation forests, with the same amount provided by EHU. Ashton received £6k
 from Natural England as a contribution towards for an EHU-funded PhD on hay meadow
 connectivity (impact case).

 We were awarded £349k in internal funding through EHU’s competitive schemes. This has
 included 12 research projects, ranging from £6k to £44k, providing support for pump
 priming/proof of concept studies. £84k was from EHU’s allocation of the Global Challenges
 Research Fund (GCRF), for research benefiting economic development and wellbeing of
 developing countries. As a result of our successes with external bids emerging out of these
 internally supported projects identified above, our academics have benefitted from EHU’s
 external-funding reward scheme which offers a percentage (up to £10k) of the award value to
 the PI who can use it for research-related activities including professional development, open
 access and equipment.



                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 Our UOA has received significant investment in infrastructure and facilities to support our
 research from both EHU and external funders, reflecting the institution’s ongoing commitment to
 strengthen research and teaching in biology. This has come in two phases, £4m to extend and
 equip the Biology building in 2013 and £13m to build the TechHub building in 2017. The
 TechHub is part-funded (£3m) through the Lancashire Enterprise Partnership. The TechHub
 hosts STEM research, with 30% dedicated to a 40-user capacity open plan laboratory to support
 research across our three themes. It also houses specialist laboratories for DNA sequencing,
 histology, human cell culture and microbiology, with an equipment investment of £1m. Our staff
 led the design of these purpose-built research laboratories and acquisition of state-of-the-art
 equipment, and we ensured our research spaces would allow academics, researchers, PGRs,
 MSc and undergraduate students to work side-by-side in a collegial fashion, reflecting our
 commitment to research training for all.

 3.2.1 Research facilities
 Ecology: we have invertebrate and plant science laboratories, accommodating 14 permanent
 researchers and 14 ‘hot’ desks for UGs. Both are equipped for processing field samples (e.g.
 plants, soils, invertebrates) and traditional taxonomic identification, including investment of over
 £25K in high powered microscopes, specimen reference collections and identification guides.
 The plant science laboratory was established in 2017 for ECR, Batke, with a £30k investment in
 state-of-the-art LED growth lights, hydroponic systems, physiological equipment and
 environmental sensors (e.g. light, temperature, relative humidity, CO2 and air pollution). Using
 these facilities, he has developed a PhD project, in collaboration with Universidade Federal de
 Alfenas in Brazil and EHU Computer Science Department, to investigate the effect of light,
 temperature and relative humidity on the growth and establishment of epiphytic bromeliads in
 pasture and forest systems in the Brazilian rainforest. These facilities, along with the TechHub,
 have been fundamental to the impact case of Ashton: taxonomic facilities were used to identify
 thousands of invertebrate specimens to species to determine the impact of grazing on
 biodiversity, and the molecular facilities in the TechHub were used to resolve molecular markers
 for the meadow plant species Rhinanthus minor, a key underpinning piece of research.

 Genetics and evolution: two climate-controlled insectaries (£110k) were established in 2013 to
 facilitate the research of Strode. These permit the rearing and study of mosquito species that
 are vectors of malaria, dengue, Zika and chikungunya, and their acquisition helped secure
 research funding of £211k (a combination of external, British Council Newton Fund, and internal
 funds). They have been fundamental to the impact case led by Strode, with reared specimens
 used for the screening of dengue mosquito vectors from Colombia for resistance to chemicals
 used in public health campaigns and to inform surveillance action. A Containment Level 2
 microbiology laboratory facility with capacity for four researchers, established in 2017, supports
 the research of Fernández-Martínez on antibiotic discovery, including testing antimicrobial
 activity of extracts from newly isolated Streptomyces strains against ESKAPE pathogens
 (pathogens resistant to some of the commonly used antibiotics). The facility has a DEFRA
 licence (Licence No. 110215/374210/0) which allows the import of soil samples from locations
 worldwide. It has also allowed Oxbrough and Fernández-Martínez to establish links with
 commercial partners to provide testing for presence of plant pathogens in commercial timber.

 Biomedical science: our newest research theme, established 2016, has been supported with
 investment of £190k for a new tissue culture laboratory including a histology pipeline, primary
 and stem-cell cell culture facilities and bench-size 4x4L full-automated bioreactor. Using the
 bioreactor, Eckl has developed novel research exploring plant-based recombinant protein
 production for topical rare skin protein replacement therapy. She has used the primary cell
 culture facilities, including a new cell sorter (FACS machine), to collaborate with the University of
 Huddersfield on replacement therapy research for rare inherited skin conditions. Charnock's
 research to enhance understanding of blood vessel formation from stem cells in the placenta,
 and identify new therapeutic targets, has used the TechHub cell culture facility to develop an in


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 vitro model of the process, supported by protein and molecular analysis (Western blotting and
 qPCR), flow cytometry and histology pipelines.

 3.2.2 Cross‐HEI shared or collaborative use of infrastructure
 Our facilities are made available to researchers beyond our UOA, either through collaborative
 projects or directly supporting other’s research. Academics from Psychology, in collaboration
 with Eckl, are investigating genetic polymorphisms, the bioavailability of alcohol and cannabis
 and their implications for cognitive performance and brain activity using TechHub facilities.
 Tagalakis’ commissioned research with Nanogenics is made possible using TechHub
 equipment and includes in-kind contributions of consumables and equipment from the company,
 highlighting how this emerging research involves significant engagement with an industrial
 partner.

 We have made significant use of facilities beyond the institution to develop our research. For
 instance, Eckl’s research on skin diseases uses Illumina HiSeq sequencing systems and
 bioinformatics platforms for NGS and homozygosity mapping at Cologne Center for Genomics.
 Oxbrough and Fernández-Martínez’s ongoing research on functional diversity of soil bacteria
 has used the Biolog Phenotype MicroArrays at Strathclyde University to determine carbon use.
 Tagalakis’ research on genetic therapies for glaucoma is made possible through a collaboration
 with King's College London, using their patient cell Biobank and ophthalmology surgery
 expertise. Batke’s taxonomic work on Honduran ferns uses herbarium facilities at the World
 Museum Liverpool and University of Zamorano, Honduras, and Ashton’s research on bacteria
 in bird nests has used the NERC Biomolecular Analysis Facility at Sheffield to undertake
 metabarcoding.

 3.3 Operational infrastructure
 Our UOA has seen significant growth in the scope and number of research projects. To support
 this, EHU’s Research Office provides guidance on contracts, budgeting, funding calls and impact
 development, the last led by the Research Impact Manager who works with our researchers to
 ensure projects embed wider impact as an outcome at the project planning stage.

 Within our UOA, researchers are supported by the research coordinator, an academic, who
 organises peer review of funding bids, provides guidance on individual research plans and
 coordinates research strategy. The departmental ethics committee, which comprises a selection
 of academics, researchers and technicians, has been instrumental in streamlining and updating
 our ethical procedures and developing training across all academic levels. In 2018, the
 University recruited a Biological Safety Officer (BSO) who is responsible for overseeing safe
 working practice, compliance with legislation and advising on research ethics and risk
 assessments. The BSO is trained to postdoctoral level, and plays a key role supporting
 researchers to set up new projects. The BSO and biomedical academics have established new
 protocols to facilitate human tissue research compliant with the Human Tissue Licence (HTA).
 The BSO is the person designate for HTA at EHU and is a member of the Liverpool Central NHS
 committee, gaining wider sectoral perspective. Administration support has increased from 1 FTE
 to 3 FTE during this REF period, including a dedicated research support administrator and a
 departmental administrative manager with responsibility for supporting research staffing,
 contracts and budgets. These posts provide vital support to academics, freeing them to
 concentrate on the science.

 To complement the increase in research activity, the University has made strategic investment in
 technical support staff. In 2014, the Biology Department had five technical staff, with four
 dedicated to teaching activities and one to research. Since then, technical staff have increased
 to eight, six of whom are directly involved in supporting research. Established technicians have
 undergone training for maintenance of specialised equipment, and new technicians have been
 recruited for their expertise in our research themes. In some cases, the level of expertise is high
 (post-doctoral) and they have been ‘bought out’ of teaching preparation duties to provide
 dedicated technical support to research projects. The TechHub Biotechnology floor has a

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 dedicated laboratory manager whose role is to oversee the day-to-day operation of the lab
 including ensuring staff and students are working to appropriate safety standards, overseeing
 consumable ordering, facilitating equipment training for lab users and improving sustainability in
 the use of consumables.

 4   Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Scientific Networks/Collaborations/Partnerships
 As a small UOA, successful collaboration plays a significant role in achieving our strategic aims
 to strengthen research capacity and ensure wider impact, and to ensure sustainability and
 vitality of our research in the future (section 1.5). We have established over 50 national and
 international collaborations with universities and research centres in recent years, as well as
 local partnerships. We encourage new in-house collaboration initially through informal
 discussion and local dissemination activities (e.g. postgraduate forum, research seminars). A
 key mechanism to develop these is through shared postgraduate supervision. For instance,
 Tagalakis co-supervises two biomedical science PhD students with the Medical School (UOA3).
 Emerging in-house interdisciplinary collaborations include Fernández-Martínez (genetics) and
 Oxbrough (ecology) joint supervising an MRes project on antimicrobial resistance levels in soil
 which led to a publication, and Batke (ecology) and Strode (genetics) publishing on a global
 surveillance tool for Aedes mosquitoes. Through dissemination activities led by the recently
 established STEM Centre, research collaborations have developed with other UOAs, such as
 Powell co-supervising PhDs on savannah dynamics using remote sensing with the Geography
 Department (with a paper published) and Batke co-supervising a PhD with Computer Science
 on climate sensing using machine learning algorithms to understand epiphyte community
 dynamics in rainforests.

 National and international collaborations are well funded through both UOA and RIF, including
 supporting conference or networking trips and teaching relief (section 2.2, 3.1). This flexible
 approach has allowed us to respond quickly to national and international priorities. For instance,
 Oxbrough and Fernández-Martínez gained funding to support a PhD project on soil
 functioning, following publication of conservation research priorities by the Woodland Trust.
 Strode gained British Council Newton Fund support to better understand insecticide resistance
 in the mosquito Aedes aegypti which was responsible for the WHO declared global health
 emergency Zika pandemic (2016), and Ashton developed a PhD project in response to priorities
 identified by Natural England and the National Trust on conservation grazing in upland habitats
 (impact case).

 UOA and institutional support for networking has directly led to established collaborations. The
 UOA funds membership of the International Union of Forest Research Organisations (IUFRO)
 for Oxbrough. She has led the IUFRO sub-division on Forest Biodiversity for several years and
 through this network developed an EHU Global Challenges Research Fund project, on which
 she is PI, investigating ecosystem functioning in eucalypt forest plantations in collaboration with
 the Universidad de Buenos Aires, Argentina. This work addresses UN Sustainability Goals 12
 and 15, for the numerous ODA recipient countries that commercialise this tree species. Strode
 received funding to attend the 2020 EU Aedes Invasive Mosquito (AIM) Cost Action annual
 meeting and began an AIM-COST Short Term Scientific Mission to review and model the
 likelihood of establishment of the dengue mosquito A. aegypti at European ports alongside
 collaborators at Public Health England and UC Louvain, Belgium. Batke was funded to
 undertake several visits to Honduras, and through this is now lead author on the first fully
 illustrated Flora of the Pteridophytes of Honduras in collaboration with Zamorano University,
 Honduras. Ashton and Powell co-supervised a PhD on the conservation genetics of the marsh
 fritillary butterfly with a scientist from key stakeholders, Natural England. The project arose from
 discussion at a British Ecological Society symposium, attendance at which was funded by the
 UOA.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2 Contributions to the Research Base
 As part of generating a vibrant research culture (strategic aim 2), our academics are supported
 to make a significant contribution to the biological science research base nationally and
 internationally, which also provides excellent networking opportunities. They are highly
 respected members of their research communities which is reflected in their external activities.
 They have examined PhDs at UK institutions (Leeds, Manchester, Harper Adams, Nottingham,
 Plymouth, Southampton, UCL and King's College London) and beyond (Spain, Italy, Sweden
 and Estonia). All of our academics are affiliated with learned societies, including recognised
 fellowships: Tagalakis and Eckl are Fellows of the Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Tagalakis
 is a Scientific Member of the British Society for Nanomedicine, Oxbrough is a Fellow of the
 Royal Entomological Society and Batke is a Fellow of the Linnaean Society and full member of
 the Chartered Institute of Ecological and Environmental Management. Batke, is a founding
 member of the Epiphyte Inventory Group which brings together 27 scientists from across the
 globe. We take active roles in the learned societies in which we hold membership. Oxbrough
 and Strode organised the national meeting of the Royal Entomological Society in 2018 at EHU;
 120 delegates from 12 countries attended. Fernández-Martínez co-organised the
 Actinomycetes Genetics and Natural Product Discovery Workshop at Universidad Técnica
 Federico Santa María, Chile in 2018; 100 delegates attended from across Latin America. She is
 currently co-organising a Royal Society sponsored international workshop for 2021 in Mexico
 which aims to mentor 30 promising Latin American researchers on genome mining of natural
 products. Ashton organised a symposium on Ecological Genetics at the International Botanical
 Congress, Shenzhen, China in 2017. Tagalakis was co-organiser of the Physical Delivery,
 Therapeutics and Vector Development special sessions for several annual American Society of
 Gene and Cell Therapy meetings. Invitations to speak include Fernández-Martínez as plenary
 at the Colombian Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Congress in Bogotá (2018) and
 Oxbrough at the National Institute for Agricultural Research (INRA) in France (2017) and the
 Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (2016).

 Our researchers contribute towards the sustainability of the discipline. They regularly review
 grant applications; organisations include the BBSRC (Fernández-Martínez, Eckl and Strode),
 EPSRC (Tagalakis), NERC (Oxbrough), MRC (Charnock, Eckl, Tagalakis and Strode), the
 Wellcome Trust (Strode), the British Ecological Society (Oxbrough, Batke) and the Cystic
 Fibrosis Trust (Tagalakis). International grant reviewing includes the French National Research
 Agency (Tagalakis), the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (Fernández-
 Martínez) and EU-COST Actions (Oxbrough). Our academics contribute significantly to the
 peer-review process, reviewing manuscripts for over 100 international journals such as The BMJ
 (Eckl), Molecular Microbiology (Fernández-Martínez), Biodiversity and Conservation (Batke,
 Oxbrough), Advanced Materials (Tagalakis), Journal of Applied Ecology (Oxbrough) and
 Restoration Ecology (Ashton). Oxbrough is on the Editorial Advisory Board of the journal
 Forest Ecology and Management, and Tagalakis is the Review Editor on Nanobiotechnology for
 the journals Frontiers in Bioengineering and Biotechnology; Frontiers in Molecular Biosciences;
 and Frontiers in Materials. We have also acted as Guest Editors for special issues of Forest
 Ecology and Management (Oxbrough) and Pharmaceutics (Tagalakis).

 A key strategic aim is to ensure our research is reproducible and our approach is detailed in
 Section 1.5. Central to this will be ensuring reproducibility of our research, such that our
 methodologies, raw data and analytical outputs can be scrutinised and used by our peers in
 academia and by wider society, thereby ensuring the knowledge we generate is accessible to
 all. We encourage all staff to deposit such materials in our data repository (Figshare) for
 transparency and this will be a priority for the future. PGRs receive training on issues around
 reproducibility and confirmatory bias to ensure that they are fully cognisant of the issues.

 4.3 Contribution to economy and society and relationships with key research users.
 Our strategic aim 3 is developing research that has wider impact at its core by seeking solutions
 to economic and societal problems identified by industry, government or NGOs. Our two impact
 cases are exemplars of this approach – Ashton on sustainable management of grassland

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ecosystems, and Strode on controlling disease-carrying mosquitoes. Beyond these, we continue
 to develop and embed the goal of having wider impact across our themes. For example,
 Fernández-Martínez is a scientific advisor for the company Perfectus Biomed, where she has
 advised on the generation of mixed species biofilms using Pseudomonas aeruginosa 10434,
 Staphylococcus aureus 8325 and Candida albicans MYA 2876. This led directly to development
 of new antimicrobial assays to test for the presence of these bacteria. Oxbrough is collaborating
 with Forest Research and the Forestry Commission to publish recommendations for national
 forest management, directly arising from recently completed research. Outputs include an article
 in the Quarterly Journal of Forestry, a leading practitioner publication. Tagalakis sits on the
 Scientific Advisory Board of Nanogenics; his expertise on nanobiotechnology has helped
 develop a product that is planned to enter a clinical trial in 2023.

 Recently established research provides evidence of continuation of our impact strategy. Powell
 is collaborating with South African National Parks on a vegetation remote sensing PhD project,
 the outcomes of which will inform how Kruger National Park manages fodder availability for large
 grazers. Oxbrough and Ashton are supervising a PhD on the habitat requirements of one of
 Britain’s rarest butterflies, the High Brown fritillary, with stakeholders from Butterfly Conservation
 involved in shaping the research questions. Eckl provides expertise to the British and German
 Ichthyosis support groups, advising patients and families on the impact of rare skin conditions,
 their genetics and therapies. Fernández-Martínez and Oxbrough have recently received
 funding from Forest Research and the Woodland Trust to determine soil microbial functioning in
 mixed forest ecosystems research. Outcomes will directly inform management to enhance soil
 ecosystem functioning, impacting future planting decisions. Charnock is working with Liverpool
 Women’s Hospital to identify therapeutic targets that can normalise foetal growth. Expected
 impact includes benefits to babies by reducing death rates, disability and neurodevelopmental
 abnormalities, and also informing health care providers by providing new treatment options.
 Oxbrough, in collaboration with University of Buenos Aires and the Ubajay Forestry Company,
 has established a project to explore enhancing beneficial predators and pest control in Argentine
 eucalypt plantations.

 Networking with key end users is key to continuation of our impact strategy and staff are
 supported to create and otherwise engage with networking opportunities. For example,
 Oxbrough hosted the North West Tree Health Meeting at EHU in 2019, attended by over 150
 practitioners and researchers. Directly arising from this, Oxbrough and Fernández-Martínez
 have begun a new collaboration with the largest supplier of biomass fuel in the United Kingdom,
 Stobart Bioenergy and A.W. Jenkinson Forest Products, to explore the efficiency of large-scale
 processing treatments to eradicate fungal pathogens from infected trees. Outcomes are
 expected to provide a more efficient processing mechanism for these companies. Tagalakis is a
 member of COST-Action Darter, a Pan-European consortium of researchers from academia,
 industry and the public and private sectors who address problems with delivery technologies for
 nucleic acid-based therapeutics. Tagalakis provides expertise to the Ormskirk Cystic Fibrosis
 Trust, the NHS Blackpool Trust and the Blackpool Adult Cystic Fibrosis Centre.

 Finally, we believe we have a responsibility to share our passion for biology beyond academia
 and named impact beneficiaries; as such we are actively involved in national and international
 outreach activities: Fernández-Martínez has participated in the international Antimicrobial
 Resistance Awareness day in Colombia (2018), the Natural Products and Drug Discovery
 Microbiology Today podcast (2019), the Big Bang Fair Birmingham (2015) and the "Antibiotic
 Hunters" stand at local School’s Science events. In 2015 Oxbrough established the national
 Forest Insects group for the Royal Entomological Society. Around 50 delegates from academia,
 NGOs and government organisations attend the annual meetings, providing a platform for
 research users and researchers to network. Oxbrough has presented her research on spiders
 to the West Lancashire Wildlife interest group and Tagalakis participated in a local fundraising
 event for the Cystic Fibrosis Trust (2019). Powell, Oxbrough and Ashton have published
 research, in lay language, in the nationally circulated British Wildlife magazine.



                                                                                               Page 13
