Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Kent

 Unit of Assessment: 3: Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Medway School of Pharmacy (MSoP) is a vibrant and diverse school, established in 2004 in a
 unique collaboration between the Universities of Kent and Greenwich. The School is located at
 the heart of a multi-university campus (Kent, Greenwich, and Canterbury Christ Church) at
 Chatham Maritime, Kent. In REF2014, research by staff in the School of Pharmacy was ranked
 joint 8th in the UK for research intensity. An impressive 100% of our research-active staff were
 submitted to REF2014, and 93% of our research was judged to be of international quality, with
 81% of this judged world-leading or internationally excellent. The School’s environment was
 judged to be conducive to supporting the development of world-leading research. Since 2014, we
 have sought to build on this achievement through targeted recruitment of internationally
 recognised researchers, through supporting our early career researchers, and through a
 significant investment in facilities and equipment. In the REF2021 period, we have had 43
 successful PhD completions, which constitutes an almost 50% increase compared to the previous
 REF period. Importantly, and a number of our PhD graduates are now employed as postdoctoral
 scientists in world-leading academic institutions such as the University of Cambridge and Yale
 University. Since 2014, the School has attracted over £3 million in funding, as well as access to
 highly specialised world-leading research facilities.

 School Structure
 The Medway School of Pharmacy comprises 23 FTE Category A staff, five postdoctoral
 researchers, and a large number of research students. Our researchers are organised into three
 research groups:

    •   Biological Sciences (BS). The principal research themes of this group are neuroscience,
        infectious diseases, cancer, and immunity, as well as renal and cardiovascular biology
        (Professors: Mathie, Ushkaryov; Readers: Lall, Temperton; Senior Lecturers: Sumbayev;
        Lecturers: Bratt, Koutsikou, Papagiannouli, Scott, Vasilopoulou, Vuono; Senior Research
        Fellows: Veale).

    •   Chemistry and Drug Delivery (CDD). This research group focuses on pharmaceutics,
        medicinal chemistry, materials sciences, and nanotechnologies (Professors: Barker;
        Senior Lecturers: Edwards, Hall; Lecturers: Brako, Casely-Hayford, Gubala, Lavignac,
        Trivedi).

    •   Clinical and Professional Practice (CPP). The focus of this research group is on the best
        use of medicines and supporting improvements in public health (Professors: Krska; Senior
        Lecturers: Corlett, Thomas; Lecturers: Bhamra, Katusiime).

 Each of these groups has achieved significant research results since 2014, including: the
 development of opportunistic screening for atrial fibrillation by clinical pharmacists in UK general
 practice; the development of pseudotype viruses for testing antibodies against COVID-19 and
 influenza viruses; and the discovery of a fundamentally novel pathway operated by human cancer
 cells in order to escape host immune surveillance and a novel biomarker for blood cancer
 diagnosis. These results have been underpinned by high-profile publications and fruitful
 collaborations with researchers at world-leading institutions such as the Universities of Oxford and
 Cambridge, Diamond Light Source Ltd, Imperial College London, University College London,
 University of Basel, the Medical Centre Hamburg-Eppendorf.

 Research Strategy 2014-20
 When it was established, the School invested heavily (>£4 million) in newly refurbished research
 laboratories for biological sciences and chemistry, start-up resources for all newly appointed

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research-active academic staff, and 30 bursaries for research PhD students (2007-11). This
 investment resulted in a vibrant and sustainable research environment that has proved a solid
 foundation for the School. The principal aims of our REF2014 research strategy were to build on
 these foundations in order to:

    1. Establish an international reputation for high-quality research.
    2. Secure external funding to support and sustain our research activities.
    3. Develop links with local collaborators, and foster wide-ranging collaborative links, both
       within the UK and internationally, with academia, industry, and healthcare providers.
    4. Undertake research with relevance for (and impact on) the activities of the pharmaceutical
       industry and healthcare providers.

 Our strategy to achieve these aims was to consolidate and mature our research in BS and CDD,
 and to develop and grow our research activities in CPP. Our overriding aim during this period was
 to encourage research collaborations with other academics, industrial partners, and health-service
 providers. As a result of this early strategy, 100% of our research-active staff were submitted to
 REF2014 and 93% of our research was deemed to be of international quality. Furthermore, 81%
 of this was judged to be world-leading or internationally excellent. The School’s environment was
 considered to be conducive to supporting the development of world-leading research.

 The School’s research strategy during the REF2021 period both extended and strengthened our
 previous strategy. It was closely aligned to the University of Kent’s institutional research strategy
 (2015-20), and was based on four priorities:

    1. To maintain and develop our international research reputation by producing high-quality
       research outputs.
    2. To continue to increase external funding to sustain and support our research effort (see
       Section 3 below).
    3. To develop and extend our wide-ranging collaborative links, both within the UK and
       internationally (particularly in Europe) (see Section 4 below).
    4. To continue to ensure that our research has relevance for (and impact on) healthcare
       provision and the activities of the pharmaceutical industry, as well as the local and wider
       community.

 The School’s Research Plan is updated annually, and is used to inform individual plans for each
 research group and, in turn, each research-active faculty member. Within the Research Plan,
 targets for research income to sustain research performance within the School are set, taking into
 account comparisons with aspirational peer groups and externally benchmarked against high
 quality, successful peers. Normally, we expect a minimum of one major grant application
 (research council research grant or equivalent) per annum per FTE.

 Research Strategy 2021-26
 Over the next five years, we plan to increase our success through building on our internal
 collaborations across the Universities of Kent and Greenwich, and on the external partnerships
 described in this narrative. We will be participating in large consortia in order to attract major
 research funding to support and increase our contribution to world-leading research. Our aim is to
 further develop our successes achieved in the fields of neuroscience, virology, anti-cancer
 immunity and cancer diagnostics, stem cell biology, materials chemistry and nanotechnology,
 pharmaceutics, and the development of opportunistic screening for atrial fibrillation by clinical
 pharmacists in UK general practice.

 We also plan to increase the number of internal interdisciplinary projects involving staff from the
 School, across all three research groups; for example, atrial fibrillation screening, COVID-19
 research, and leukaemia diagnostic and immunotherapy of cancer projects. We will also increase
 involvement and collaboration with our colleagues at the Universities of Kent and Greenwich to
 work on crucial aspects of healthy ageing, one of our current high-priority research areas. With
 the recent establishment of the new Division of Natural Sciences, we will also strengthen

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborations within researchers in the Schools of Biosciences and Chemistry, as well as with
 researchers in the Faculty of Science and Engineering at the University of Greenwich.

 Impact Strategy
 The School’s research is collaborative, outward-looking, and of direct relevance to our partners
 across healthcare and public health, the pharmaceutical and biotechnological industries, and
 education. Despite our School being relatively new, our research has already had a significant
 impact, thanks to our close collaboration with a range of domestic and international partners
 outside academic, partners who not only benefit from but also inspire, support, and shape our
 research. Our three impact case studies demonstrate the breadth, vitality, and scope of our
 research across major contemporary healthcare issues, including age-related disease such as
 strokes and leukaemia, and responses to the COVID-19 pandemic. Evidence of impact is clear in
 each of our three research groups.

    1. Biological Sciences

 Our research in Biological Sciences has had major impacts for the pharmaceutical, neuroscience,
 biotechnology/immunology, and virology sectors. Our neuroscience research is illustrated by
 Mathie’s work on the identification of novel potassium channel activators and the description of
 their mechanism of action, which has influenced the research direction of two pharmaceutical
 companies (Pfizer and MRC Technology) seeking to identify novel therapeutic agents for the
 treatment of pain. Both have invested resources in their research as a direct result of this work.
 Furthermore, as a direct result of our research, one such activator has been adopted in the US for
 use in the treatment of Birk Barel Mental Retardation Syndrome.

 Significant impact has also been achieved in the field of anti-cancer immunity and diagnostics. In
 2016, Gibbs, Sumbayev, and Ushkaryov discovered a fundamentally novel biochemical pathway
 that appears upon the malignant transformation of blood cells. For one of the components of this
 pathway (latrophilin), the University has filed an international patent application for its use as a
 novel biomarker for diagnosis and treatment of acute myeloid leukaemia. Three international, non-
 academic institutions have altered the direction of their work as a result of this research, and three
 SMEs have revised their operational procedures and invested in the applied research that derives
 from our research findings. Some of the world’s leading hospitals, including the Medical Centre
 Hamburg-Eppendorf in Germany and Inselspital, Bern, have amended their patient sample
 screening procedures as a result of this research. The discovery received extensive international
 media coverage, with more than 20 news articles in publications such as Science Daily and
 Medical Express. In collaboration with Sparks Film production, KMTV has filmed and broadcast a
 documentary about this work.

 Another set of projects focusing on the development of pseudotype viruses has led to significant
 discoveries in the area of virology and vaccine development. Serological assays used for
 dissecting protective antibody responses to many emerging viruses of global health importance
 rely on the handling of highly pathogenic viruses, meaning that only a small number of specialised
 bio-secure laboratories are able to undertake them. To circumvent this bottleneck, Temperton
 pioneered the application of safe surrogate viruses that are engineered using the repurposed core
 of a replication-defective retroviral vector combined with the surface glycoproteins from emerging
 viruses. These retroviral pseudotypes have enabled safe, sensitive immunogenicity testing of
 human sera in vaccine clinical trials, high-throughput screening of novel, broadly neutralising
 monoclonal antibody therapeutics, and international antibody standard development. This has led
 to the development – in collaboration with the National Institute for Biological Standards and
 Control (NIBSC) – of the first Ebola, MERS, and SARS-CoV2 antibodies and nucleic acid
 standards for the World Health Organization (WHO). Temperton’s work with a spin-out company
 (DIOSynVax, Cambridge) has enabled the company to leverage SME-led investment in universal
 influenza vaccine R&D.

 For further information on these three projects, see our impact case studies, led by Mathie,
 Sumbayev, and Temperton, respectively.

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    2. Chemistry and Drug Delivery

 Significant impact has also been achieved by our research in the field of Chemistry and Drug
 Delivery. This are exemplified by Gubala’s research on the functionalisation of ‘nano-sized
 material’ that is used in our everyday lives. As a member of the International Union of Pure and
 Applied Chemistry (IUPAC), Gubala has been chairing a Europe-US-Canada consortium of
 scientists to prepare two substantial documents (recommendations) related to the use,
 functionalisation, characterisation, and toxicology of nanomaterials used in human health-related
 applications. The consortium consists of seven world-leading scientists from institutions such as
 the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) in Zurich, the National Research Council of
 Canada, and the Max Planck Institute for Chemistry, Germany.

    3. Clinical and Pharmacy Practice

 The interdisciplinary research of our Clinical and Pharmacy Practice group has achieved
 significant impact on the healthcare system. For example, Krska’s work in community pharmacy
 public health has influenced practice locally, and has the potential to influence policy at the national
 level. An evaluation (led by Krska) of the NHS Health Check programme with additional spirometry
 testing for current and recent smokers, conducted locally by Lewisham NHS Clinical
 Commissioning Group (CCG), resulted in changes to how the service was commissioned and
 rolled out. A national study determining variation in the commissioning and delivery of public health
 services from pharmacies has attracted funding from Public Health England, which proposes to
 use the data to inform national commissioning, as well as interest from Pharmacy Voice
 (representing community pharmacies) and NHS England.

 Pharmacists need to work with general practitioners (GPs) to deliver NHS services, yet research
 suggests that such collaboration requires facilitation. In 2015, Lewisham NHS CCG undertook a
 unique inter-professional exchange involving local community pharmacy and GP practice staff.
 The exchange was evaluated by Thomas. Results were disseminated via CCG and pharmacy
 commissioning organisations. The project was shortlisted for a Health Services Journal Patient
 Safety award in 2016. Discussions are now underway with the Royal Pharmaceutical Society to
 adopt this method of joint working between the two professional groups as good practice
 nationwide.

 Our recent initiative led by Veale (BS) in collaboration with CPP colleagues (Corlett and Bhamra)
 focuses on the development of opportunistic screening for atrial fibrillation by clinical pharmacists
 in UK general practice. This project aims to simplify the process of screening patients for atrial
 fibrillation so that it can be conducted by clinical pharmacists. This will enable the rapid, reliable,
 robust, and affordable assessment of patients, and will lead to early detection of the potential risks
 of stroke, and would thus help to with the effective treatment of this life-threatening medical
 condition. This initiative has already attracted funding from Bayer, and in 2019-20 received the
 Atrial Fibrillation Association’s Healthcare Pioneers Award and a Clinical Pharmacy Congress
 Award. For this work, Veale won the Women in Science and Engineering Emerging Technology
 Award in 2019.

    4. Response to COVID-19

 The School’s Viral Pseudotype Unit (VPU), led by Scott and Temperton, has received £1.4 million
 in joint funding from the Medical Research Council and Wellcome Trust, with Professor Xiao-Ning
 Xu of Imperial College, London, to develop antibodies that target the novel coronavirus causing
 COVID-19 disease, with the aim of developing a much-needed global therapy for the disease. The
 COVID-19-related work of the VPU has already resulted in several outputs published in world-
 leading peer-reviewed journals, including Nature Microbiology, Cell Reports Medicine,
 Eurosurveillance, and Science Immunology. Furthermore, Temperton has been funded to run the
 ‘neutralising antibodies’ core of the Humoral Immune Correlates of COVID-19 (HICC) consortium,
 one of three national consortia to attract UKRI/NIHR funding.


                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Early in the pandemic, the School lent Molecular Biology equipment to the North Kent Pathology
 Department at Darent Valley Hospital (DVH) to enable the hospital to begin its own in-house
 COVID-19 testing and reduce its reliance on Public Health England testing pathways. In addition,
 experienced biological sciences staff from the school (Sumbayev and Vuono) played a significant
 role in developing the testing protocols, provided training for NHS staff, and were seconded to
 work at DVH to perform the COVID-19 testing. According to the NHS, as a result of our academics’
 participation, DVH was able to provide high-quality testing for all the local patients, conducting
 around 500 samples per day, including patients and NHS staff.

 Research Integrity
 The School has nurtured a strong culture of research integrity and reproducibility of our results. In
 line with University policy, the School has implemented three approaches to support and ensure
 a strong academic culture of research integrity. The fundamentals underlying research integrity
 are reinforced on an annual basis through information sessions delivered to all research-active
 staff, PhD students, and final-year MPharm students conducting their sustained research projects.
 The School has a dedicated Research Ethics and Governance Officer (Corlett from the CPP
 group) and supporting academic staff member (Koutsikou), who are responsible for organising the
 delivery of necessary training, as well as providing support, advice, and guidance for academic
 staff starting new or developing ongoing research projects. The School also operates an Ethical
 Approval Process that ensures timely and rigorous ethical review. The application and review
 process sets a clear benchmark for research integrity. The School is a member of the University’s
 Research Ethics and Governance Committee, which is a crucial venue for sharing best laboratory
 and other research practices and for addressing complicated cases. It also provides external
 ethics review, where it is required for major (e.g. Research Council) grant applications. The
 University’s Research Ethics and Governance Manager works within the framework described
 above in order to ensure timely provision of professional guidance and to share the knowledge on
 best practice. When commencing their studies, our PhD students are required to attend workshops
 on research integrity.

 Open Access
 We store our protocols in online repositories and, where possible, publish detailed protocols. In
 the laboratories, all the protocols are freely accessible to all interested academics. We are often
 pleased to see that the findings of our research groups are reproduced independently. Our staff
 are encouraged and supported to publish their research whenever possible via Green or Gold
 Open Access routes. The University provides support to cover the costs of Open Access
 publication when those costs are not covered by external research funding. All our publications
 are deposited in the Kent Academic Repository (KAR). Through the University’s Research and
 Innovation Services team and the Office for Scholarly Communication, all members of staff have
 benefited from dedicated training opportunities on Open Access, research metrics, dissemination
 planning, and copyright.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy
 The School’s staffing strategy is driven by our focus on deepening our research expertise within
 our three research groups, and our commitment to maintaining a balanced staff base that is
 international both in origins and outlook. The strategy has four principal objectives:

    1.   To maintain appropriate growth and balance in our staff numbers.
    2.   To focus on recruiting and nurturing highly skilled early career researchers (ECRs).
    3.   To support and develop the potential of all our staff.
    4.   To ensure that our research environment is conducive to the production of research of
         international quality, with appropriate measures in place to support the career development
         of our staff.



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our staff base size has grown significantly since REF2014. Currently, the School comprises 25
 highly motivated research-active staff, of whom well over 50% are women (14 women; 11 men).
 Since 2014, the School has made a number of strategic appointments across all three of our
 research groups. The Biological Sciences group has grown through the recruitment of
 Vasilopoulou (from University College London), Koutsikou (from the University of Bristol),
 Papagiannouli (from the University of Cologne, Germany), and Vuono (from the University of
 Cambridge). The Chemistry and Drug Delivery group has appointed Barker (from University
 College London), who is the new Head of School, as well as Trivedi (from the University of
 Greenwich) and Brako (from University College London). The Clinical and Pharmacy Practice
 group has appointed Bhamra (from De Montfort University) and Katusiime (from University College
 London).

 The School’s research is managed by our Head of School, Director of Research, Director of
 Postgraduate Studies, REF Coordinator, and the administrative support team. We run an active
 School Research and Innovation Committee, and our Director of Research is a member of the
 Faculty/Divisional Research Committees at the Universities of Kent and Greenwich. The School
 also has a Postgraduate Research Committee that focuses on supporting our PGRs. The research
 activities of our academic staff are monitored by the Head of School and School Director of
 Research through an annual Individual Research Planning (IRP) meeting, as well as through more
 informal day-to-day support. IRPs are also used to ensure a fair workload distribution and the
 wellbeing of all our research-active staff.

 Staff Development
 The School’s staff development plan is intended to create an open, inclusive, vibrant, and collegial
 working environment. We seek to ensure that all our staff have the opportunities and the support
 to achieve their potential and secure the appropriate career development rewards. The range of
 staff development opportunities available to our staff include:

    •   A supportive and rigorous Probation procedure.
    •   Timely and appropriate support for promotion via appraisal and mentoring.
    •   Transparent and equitable workload allocation through our Work Allocation Model (WAM).
    •   Support for research and conference attendance through generous individual conference
        support budgets, and investment in new research through our Research Support Fund
        (RSF). Our newly appointed staff receive a generous start-up funding in order to set up
        their research successfully; the School additionally provides funding support for highly
        innovative projects to enable academics to generate pilot data prior to seeking external
        funding.
    •   Regular study leave for all research-active staff.

 Probation. All new staff undertake a probation period (normally of three years). In addition to their
 Probation Supervisor, ECRs are assigned a Mentor from the senior staff for the duration of their
 probationary period, and are actively supported to develop their short- and long-term career
 planning.

 Appraisal and mentoring. Once they have completed Probation, staff have an annual appraisal,
 conducted by a senior academic from within the School. The appraisal takes the form of the
 University’s ‘Reflect, Plan, Develop (RPD) process. The RPD is overseen by the Head of School
 and serves the purpose of identifying the needs of each member of staff, including training, career
 development, and pathways to promotion. Alongside the RPD, there is also an annual research
 peer-review and mentoring process to monitor the quantity and quality of staff research activities
 and their compatibility with the School’s research strategy. This process also provides staff with
 mentoring to help disseminate research and maximise impact, and ensures that resources are
 targeted appropriately and effectively.




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Workload allocation. The School operates a transparent and equitable Work Allocation Model
 (WAM), which ensures that our staff are given credit for the range of administrative and leadership
 roles undertaken in a consistent manner across all career stages.

 Internal funding schemes to support research. The School provides individual research
 allowances, with all academic staff receiving an allowance of £750 per annum. Research-active
 academic staff are encouraged to use their allowances to fund international conference
 attendance, enabling them to achieve greater exposure of their work and build international
 networks. The School’s Research Support Fund (RSF) provides seed-corn funding for new
 initiatives and workshop activities to pursue new research agendas. In addition, we recently
 created a new Research Incentivisation Fund, to support staff who have submitted an application
 for external funding in excess of £100k, but were unsuccessful. These staff can apply for 1% of
 the award each year in order to advance the research and to enable a stronger application to be
 submitted on a future occasion, or for an aspect of the research to be completed. These funding
 streams are examples of a wide range of School initiatives intended to increase grant opportunities
 and support additional time for research activities. Other examples include: core funding to each
 research centre to underwrite the costs of major international conferences and events; a dedicated
 conference and workshop attendance support fund for every member of staff (£750 per annum
 per FTE); an External Grant Incentivisation Fund to support large and complex grant applications;
 and a competitive process for annual support for large collaborative research project applications.
 In total, since REF2014, the School has spent approximately £160k incentivising new research
 through these support funds for small projects, engagement, and impact-related activities. In
 addition, the University’s Impact Fund has supported academics (with funding of up to £5k) to
 strengthen the impact of their research. Our staff have also been supported by the University’s
 Small Grant Scheme (usually up to £5k). Since REF2014, 10 members of the School have been
 recipients of these small grants, totalling approximated £65k, which have been a springboard for
 bids for larger external funding schemes.

 Study leave. All academic staff are entitled to apply for one term’s study leave after seven terms.
 In addition, the School has introduced new Impact Secondment Sabbaticals to support staff in
 their engagement with research users and impact partners.

 Recognition and reward. The success of our staffing strategy is demonstrated by the rate of
 promotion. Since 2014, eight current and former colleagues have been successful in promotion
 rounds: two to Reader (both male); five to Senior Lecturer (four female; one male); and one to
 Senior Research Associate (female). Some of our alumni academics were appointed at senior
 levels or promoted beyond the School. Examples include: Professors Peppiatt-Wildman (f),
 Nokhodchi (m), Apampa (f), Wildman (m), Douroumis (m), and Manfrin (m), who were appointed
 to professorships at leading UK universities. Drs Loo (f) and Gibbs (m) have moved into senior
 positions abroad, and Dr Ghafourian (f) is now a Reader at the University of Bedfordshire.

 Support for ECRs. The School fully supports the Concordat to assist the career development of
 research staff. All new appointees to Lecturer positions are required to complete the Postgraduate
 Certificate of Higher Education (PGCHE) programme, which includes modules on developing as
 a researcher and developing as a research degree supervisor. Early career staff benefit from
 significantly reduced teaching loads (a 50% reduction in year 1, and a 25% reduction in year 2) to
 support them in developing their research profile. In addition to reduced teaching loads, our ECRs
 on Education and Research (E&R) contracts are allocated 250 extra hours per annum in year 1,
 on top of the baseline hours every academic is allocated for research (300 per annum), decreasing
 by 50 hours in years 2 and 3.

 To augment support for early career researchers and research associate staff, the University runs
 an Early Career Researchers Network with branches at both the Canterbury and the Medway
 campuses. As well as enabling early career researchers (including final-year PhD students) from
 across the University to interact and form collaborations, this network also provides a forum for
 career advice. To complement this, the University’s Graduate and Researcher College runs
 regular Grants Factories, a programme of grant-writing workshops for staff applying for research

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funding, with each session being led by staff with significant experience and success in writing
 such applications.

 Equality and Diversity
 The Medway School of Pharmacy is committed to embedding the principles of equality and
 diversity across all its activities and procedures, including in recruitment and promotion processes,
 working patterns, teaching, and research. All our staff undertake compulsory equality and diversity
 training on, for example, unconscious bias awareness and diversity and inclusion in Higher
 Education. The School is actively engaged in the University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity
 (EDI) Network, and is represented on the forum by our EDI representative. The principles of
 equality and inclusivity are fully embedded across the School’s research environment. For
 instance, EDI principles help guide the choice of external speakers to the School’s research
 seminars. As part of Kent’s preparation for REF2021, staff directly involved in the submission,
 including the Unit’s REF Working Group members, the REF Coordinator, and the REF
 Administrator, were required to undertake additional EDI training as part of Kent’s Code of
 Practice.

 The School is an open, fair, and democratic workplace. Workloads are allocated on a transparent
 basis, with a WAM that includes credit for a range of activities, including leadership roles and PGR
 supervision. The School’s researchers are almost equally represented with both female and male
 members of staff, including 14 female and 11 male academics. Our recently recruited early career
 researchers include highly motivated and successful female (six) and male (one) academics.

 The School has won an Athena SWAN Bronze Award, and is currently preparing to apply for a
 Silver Award). We recognise that staff need to balance often conflicting demands with regards to
 teaching, research, and personal lives, and we have a strong programme to support all academics
 who have family/childcare responsibilities, health issues, etc., to ensure that our staff can
 successfully develop their research profile and academic career, with a good work/life balance.
 For example, Yasinska held an MRC-funded Daphne Jackson Trust Fellowship (2016-18), which
 enabled her to return to academic research, working in the laboratory of Gibbs and Sumbayev,
 and teaching (she also completed a PGCHE), following a career break to raise a family. As a
 result, Yasinska published several high-quality outputs, including first-author papers in
 EBioMedicine, Nanoscale, OncoImmunology, and Frontiers in Immunology. Her overall
 performance was rated as ‘outstanding’ by the Daphne Jackson Trust. Veale received the Women
 in Science and Engineering Emerging Technology Award in 2019. Since 2014, female colleagues
 have held the following leadership roles within the School: Director of Research and Innovation
 (2016-18); Director of Education (2018-present); Deputy Head of School (2017-present); and
 MPharm programme lead (2017-present). The current Head of School is also female (2019-
 present).

 Research Students
 Recruitment and funding. Since REF2014, 43 PhD students have successfully completed their
 programmes of study, this constituting a 50% increase compared to the REF2014. Over the
 academic years 2019-20 and 2020-21, the School will have spent over £230,000 on scholarships,
 a significant investment in providing opportunities to outstanding students. Almost half of our
 students received PhD scholarships from the School: 20 scholarships were provided by the
 University of Kent and one by the University of Greenwich. Some of our international doctoral
 students received governmental support from their home countries. For example, Benlaouer
 received a full scholarship from the Algerian government in order to undertake her PhD studies,
 which were successfully completed and also resulted in three high-profile publications in which
 Ouafa participated as a contributing author. Generally, our PhD students come from the UK or the
 EU (principally from Austria, Denmark, Greece, Italy, Portugal, and Spain). We have also recruited
 students from Algeria, Nigeria, and Thailand.

 Training and supervision. Our PhD students and postdoctoral researchers receive excellent
 training from our academics. Every PhD student in our School has a supervisory team consisting

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of at least two supervisors. If a supervisor has not yet successfully supervised a PhD student to
 completion in the UK, they are paired with an experienced second supervisor, who acts as the
 supervisory team chair and who provides guidance and mentoring as necessary. Our PhD
 students meet with their supervisors at least weekly, to ensure that the necessary help and advice
 are provided. PhD students also prepare monthly summaries (reviewed and approved by
 supervisors) and also available to be monitored by the School’s Director of Graduate Studies. We
 operate supervisory panels to ensure that PhD students are being provided with the necessary
 support and guidance. These panels evaluate the students’ research performance at progression
 points. The Director of Graduate Studies is present at all the supervisory panels.

 In the first term of their research programme, PhD students attend regular training workshops
 organised by the University’s Graduate and Researcher College. Our PGRs are strongly
 encouraged to attend both national and international academic conferences, and to present their
 work as oral communications and posters. Often, this is funded externally by the meeting
 organisers or via learned society travel awards, and sometimes by the School. For example,
 Wyzsynski (who completed his PhD in 2015) obtained a highly competitive scholarship from the
 European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (EAACI), covering registration,
 accommodation, and travel costs, to attend the EACCI Annual Congress, where he delivered an
 oral presentation. Gonçalves Silva (who completed her PhD in 2017) won travel fellowships from
 both the European Federation of Immunological Societies and the British Society of Immunology,
 and successfully presented her work at corresponding meetings.

 In most cases, individual PhD or post-doctoral research projects form part of wider research
 programmes run by national and international research consortia or collaborating School
 academics. Examples include Sakhnevych (PhD student) and Yasinska (postdoctoral researcher),
 whose work was jointly supervised by Sumbayev, Gibbs, and Ushkaryov, and was part of the
 programme run by the European Research Consortium (led by Sumbayev) focusing on anti-
 cancer immunity and including academics from the UK (University of Essex, Diamond Light
 Source Ltd), and Europe (University Hospital, Bern, Switzerland; University Medical Centre,
 Hamburg-Eppendorf, Germany; European Commission Joint Research Centre, Ispra, Italy; and
 Institute for Research in Biomedicine, Bellinzona, Switzerland). Both Yasinska and Sakhnevych
 were first authors on six high-profile research outputs published by the consortium. Steponenaite
 (a former PhD student and currently a research associate in the School) worked under the
 supervision of Lall and Mathie on an ambitious project conducted in partnership with Translational
 Molecular Neuroscience Group from the Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine, Nuffield
 Department of Clinical Neurosciences, and the University of Oxford. The project was successfully
 completed, resulting in a high-impact research output published in the world-leading
 interdisciplinary journal Nature Communications.

 Publications, recognition, and rewards. Our PhD students have been very successful in the
 dissemination of their work. During the REF2021 period, this has included a number of publications
 in highly ranked peer-reviewed journals and oral/poster presentations at national/international
 academic conferences. Outputs have included primary-author publications with their supervisors
 in world-leading scientific journals such as: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of
 the United States of America (PNAS), Nature Communications, Nature Microbiology, Nanoscale,
 PLOS Medicine, Journal of Biological Chemistry, Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences, Small, Cell
 Research, British Journal of Pharmacology, OncoImmunology, EBioMedicine, Cellular and
 Molecular Immunology, eLife, Vaccine, Frontiers in Immunology, Journal of Controlled Release,
 Cell Reports Medicine, Journal of Physiology, and Annual Reviews in Pharmacology and
 Toxicology.

 Onward employment. We are particularly proud that the vast majority of our PhD students
 successfully continue to develop their research through academic or industry careers. Many are
 employed by world-leading universities and research institutions, or by industry and funding
 agencies. Examples include: Yale University, Wellcome Trust, King's College London, University
 College London, Imperial College London, Karolinska Institute (Sweden), University of Cambridge,
 National Research Council Canada, Abbott, Lonza Group (Basel, Switzerland), GSK (Siena, Italy),

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 St Jude’s Children's Hospital (USA), DIOSynVax (Cambridge, UK).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Since REF2014, the School’s staff enjoyed considerable success in securing external funding to
 support their research, with external research awards being in excess of £3 million. Our strategy
 for generating research income has been to diversify, increase, and internationalise grant awards
 across all three of our research groups, with a strong focus on collaborative working (see Section
 4 below). Since REF2014, we have: increased the number of grant applications submitted;
 diversified and internationalised the range of targeted funders; supported applications for large
 and complex grants; and used School and University research funds as a springboard for future
 large grant capture (see Section 2 above). As a result, our academics have been successful in
 attracting competitive national and international research funding. This includes highly competitive
 major awards from the Medical Research Council, Wellcome Trust, and Cancer Research UK (ca
 £1.5 million in total). Funding has been secured both by well-established researchers and by early
 career researchers winning New Investigator Awards (£489k) and Fellowships (ca £170k in total).

 Major innovation grants were secured from both LifeArc and Pfizer. Additionally, the equivalent of
 over £500k was obtained through access being awarded to high-profile modern state-of-art
 research equipment, examples including funding from the Diamond Light Source Synchrotron
 facilities, and the high-resolution transmission electron microscopy of the European Commission
 Joint Research Centre. Over £200k was secured through the recruitment of highly skilled self-
 funded PhD students and postdoctoral fellows. This included governmental sponsorship (for
 example, PhD studentships funded by the Algerian and Thai governments), and a highly
 competitive postdoctoral fellowship from the European Academy of Allergy and Clinical
 Immunology. Our researchers also attracted over £150k in funding from overseas funding
 agencies (for example, Swiss Cancer League), which included the salary of postgraduate
 researchers who spent some of their research time (up to five months) in the School’s laboratories,
 as well as insurance and funding for consumables.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 The School benefits from newly equipped state-of-the-art research laboratories operated by the
 BS and CDD groups. The facilities include: tissue culture facilities designed for handling cell lines
 and primary human cells; FACS facility; Li-Cor Odyssey imaging techniques; multiphoton, phase
 contrast, and fluorescent microscopy; multifunctional colorimetric and flurorometric facilities, and
 Molecular Biology laboratories. Each of our three research groups also has its own communal
 annual budget of £25,000 per annum, which enables us to give our research groups access to
 core laboratory consumables (for example, tissue culture plasticware and basic laboratory
 chemicals).

 Since REF2014, we have invested around £500k into our infrastructure in order to purchase highly
 sensitive equipment, such as the new model Li-Cor Odyssey machine, a FACS machine, and a
 multiphoton microscope. These core facilities have enabled us to produce high-quality research
 with a significant impact (outlined in the Section 1 above). Furthermore, the School’s researchers
 have benefited from regular access to synchrotron (operated by Diamond Light Source Ltd, Didcot,
 UK) and to transmission electron microscopy and surface plasmon resonance techniques
 provided by the European Commission Joint Research Centre (Ispra, Italy).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations
 The examples of our research activities given in Section 1 above, and also in our three impact
 case studies, demonstrate that networking and external collaborations are key components of the
 School’s research strategy. We believe that these collaborations are critical to our development.
 All of our researchers collaborate with colleagues in academia and industry, both in the UK and
                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 abroad, with over 40 collaborators in the UK, over 50 collaborators in Europe, and a number of
 collaborators in the Australia, Guatemala, Iran, Israel, New Zealand, Singapore, Thailand,
 Uganda, and the United States. Our strategic partnerships and collaborations include: world-
 leading universities such as the University of Oxford, University of Cambridge, Imperial College
 London, University College London, University of Basel, Inselspital Bern, University of Florida, and
 Ben-Gurion University; major research centres such as Diamond Light Source Ltd, European
 Commission Joint Research Centre, and Cambridge Brain Bank; and major industrial partners
 such as DIOSynVax and Blue Water Vaccines.

 Alongside these various external collaborations, we also have a number of research partnerships
 between the School’s two partner universities, Kent and Greenwich, including those between Lall
 and Douroumis (University of Greenwich) on 3D printing, and between Mathie and Firaz, who won
 a Leverhulme Trust Major Research Project Grant as joint PIs. Members of the School are also
 involved in a number of interdisciplinary projects, in particular with the University’s School of
 Biosciences. In addition, our staff are contributing to the University’s new collaborative Signature
 Research Themes (SRTs); for example, Bhamra is working closely with colleagues across the
 University on the Migration and Movement SRT.

 As a School of Pharmacy, we value our strong connections to local healthcare professionals, the
 pharmaceutical industry, and the recently established Kent and Medway Medical School (KMMS).
 All researchers in the School are members of KentHealth, the University’s ‘one-stop shop’ for
 health and social care expertise. This has already extended our links with local healthcare
 providers such as Medway NHS Foundations Trust, Kent and Canterbury Hospital, East Kent
 Health, and a number of local pharmacies. We have also established links with several animal
 healthcare agencies, including the World Organization for Animal Health (OiE), the Animal Health
 Trust, the Animal and Plant Health Agency (APHA), the Pirbright Institute, the Federal Research
 Institute for Animal Health (Germany), and the National Equine Centre (Ireland), as well as Public
 Health organisations such as Public Health England, the National Institute for Biological Standards
 and Control (NIBSC), and the World Health Organization (WHO).

 A large number of our research projects are undertaken in collaboration with industry, particularly
 the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and immunodiagnostics industries. The School has active
 collaborations with over a dozen pharmaceutical companies, from large multinationals to SMEs,
 including Pfizer, GlaxoSmithKline, Merck, Novartis, Biovendor, Humabs, Ablynx, Boost
 Technologies, Aptum Biologics Ltd, Oxley Hughes Ltd, SipCo Ltd, Avacta Life Sciences Ltd, Izon
 Science, Alk Abello, Discovery Biomed Inc, Colorcon, Charles River, Takeda, Galleon
 Pharmaceuticals, Chiralabs, Biogen, DIOSynVax, Blue Water Vaccines, and Laserchrom. These
 collaborations with industry have led to joint applications for funding, including Horizon 2020 and
 SME-led Innovate UK bids. One example is Gubala’s research (described in Section 1 above). As
 a member of IUPAC, Gubala chairs a Europe-US-Canada consortium of scientists preparing two
 crucial recommendations related to the use, functionalisation, characterisation, and toxicology of
 nanomaterials used in human health-related applications.

 Our Honorary Professor of Cardiopulmonary Sciences (Ghazwan Butrous) is a major contributor
 to the School’s research. He is currently President Emeritus of the Pulmonary Vascular Research
 Institute, a global organisation with over 1,000 members.

 Contributions to the Research Base, Economy, and Society
 Since REF2014, we have set out to enhance the research profile of the School within our scholarly
 networks, both nationally and internationally, in a number of ways.

    1. Participation on grants committees

 Since 2014, Medway School of Pharmacy staff have served on grant review panels or as grant
 reviewers for over 30 funders, including BBSRC, MRC, EPSRC, Wellcome Trust, Diabetes UK,
 Royal Society, Leverhulme Trust, BHF, NIHR, Research for Patient Benefit, BUPA, NC3Rs, the
 Health and Medical Research Fund (HMRF) Hong Kong, Research Foundation Flanders, Belgium

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (FWO), Kidney Research UK, Cancer Research UK, Bloodwise, Deutsche Forschungs-
 gemeinschaft (Germany), Agence Nationale de la Recherche (France), Förderung der
 Wissenschaftlichen Forschung (Austria), Telethon Fondazione (Italy), Swiss National Science
 Foundation, Irish Reseach Council, and Commonwealth Scholarship Commission.

    2. Panel and committee memberships

 Since 2014, our staff have served, and in some cases are currently serving, on international
 research committees. For example, Gibbs has served on a special emphasis NIH/NIAID panel.
 Mathie is currently serving on the BBSRC Pool of Experts and Alzheimer’s Research Trust
 Referee Panel. Thomas contributes to the activities of the International Olympic Committee as the
 Clinical and Pharmacy Practice expert. Barker is a member of the MHRA’s Advisory Board on the
 Regulation of Homeopathic Products.

    3. Editorial boards and journal editorships

 Our staff have served on the editorial boards of more than 10 journals. For example, Ushkaryov
 is currently a member of the editorial board for the Journal of Biological Chemistry. Mathie and
 Veale are editors of the widely used Concise Guide to Pharmacology (the 2019-20 edition has
 been cited over 800 times since publication in December 2019). Mathie is an editor of the
 International Journal of Biochemistry and Cell Biology. Sumbayev is on the editorial board of
 Scientific Reports (Nature Publishing Group) and Biomolecules (MDPI). Gibbs is one of the
 leading editors of Inflammation Research (Springer-Nature). Krska is an editor of the International
 Journal of Pharmacy Practice. Sumbayev is a member of the editorial boards of Scientific Reports
 (Nature Publishing Group) and Biomolecules. Temperton is an editor for Vaccines and Access
 Microbiology. Hall is a member of the editorial board of Reactive and Functional Polymers. Scott
 is an editor for Virus Genes. In addition, our staff have reviewed papers for more than 90 academic
 journals in the REF2021 period.

    4. Conferences and lectures

 All Medway School of Pharmacy researchers regularly communicate their research to a wider
 audience as invited speakers, invited contributors, or plenary speakers at national and
 international conferences. This includes major events such as the annual meetings of American
 Neuroscience Society (Koutsikou, Lall, Mathie) and the European Academy of Allergy and Clinical
 Immunology (Gibbs, Sumbayev). Butrous was a Chair and keynote speaker at the Infection and
 Pulmonary Vascular Disease Symposium, 14th Pulmonary Vascular Research Institute World
 Congress, Lima, Peru, 2020. Sumbayev was invited speaker and section chair at the 24th World
 Congress on Advances in Oncology (Athens, 2018) and the 23rd International Symposium on
 Molecular Medicine (Bangkok, 2019). As a former Research Fellow of the Alexander von
 Humboldt Foundation (Germany), Sumbayev receives ongoing financial support to attend
 academic conferences in, and research visits, Germany. He was an invited UK delegate at the
 Humboldt Colloquium ‘Moving Forward – The UK-German Research Network in a Changing
 World’ (Oxford, UK, 2018). Scott presented invited talks at the Influenza Symposia held in 2014
 and 2016 at the University of Oxford. Temperton delivered a keynote address at the Institute of
 Bioscience (IBS), University Putra Malaysia, funded by the BBSRC.

 Our early career researchers have also demonstrated a high level of activity as invited/plenary
 speakers at prestigious international conferences and even as conference organisers. Vuono was
 the organiser and chair of RIGeast 2019 – the 1st East of England Research Interest Group
 Parkinson’s Conference, which took place at Sanders Hall, University of Cambridge.
 Papagiannouli delivered an invited talk at the EMBO Symposium, in Heidelberg, Germany, in
 2014, and at the Joint Workshop of the Japanese (JSDB) and German (GfE) Society of
 Developmental Biologists, in Kyoto, Japan, 2019. Vasilopoulou gave a plenary lecture at the 5th
 International Symposium on Thymosins in Health and Disease, in Washington DC, in 2017.
 Bhamra delivered an invited lecture about the quality of practitioners and prescriptions, and the


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 relevance to clinical studies, at the International Congress on Traditional Asian Medicine (ICTAM),
 Kiel, Germany, in 2017.

    5. Public engagement

 The School has a robust public and media engagement strategy, which extends beyond traditional
 academic publication routes to support wider public engagement with our research. We work
 actively with the University’s press office, as well as with the Office for Scholarly Communication,
 to ensure that the research accomplishments of our staff are reported to the public and covered
 in the media. A number of our publications have received wide media coverage in the REF2021
 cycle. For example, Lall’s and Mathie’s research was published in Nature Communications (2020);
 while the work of Veale, Corlett, Bhamra, and Mathie published in PLOS Medicine (2020) was
 covered in news articles across the world. The research findings published by Sumbayev,
 Ushkaryov, and Gibbs in EBioMedicine (2017), Nanoscale (2018), Cellular and Molecular
 Immunology (2018), and Frontiers in Immunology (2019-20) was highlighted in over 20 news
 articles across the world, and was identified as a fundamental discovery in the press release
 published by the British Society for Haematology. The follow-up work of this group was presented
 in a documentary produced by KMTV in 2019 (screened in 2020). Their discoveries are also
 included into the teaching programmes on anti-cancer immunity internationally, including at the
 University of Basel and University Hospital Bern (Switzerland). Most recently, our ongoing work
 on COVID-19 led by Scott and Temperton’s research being the subject of widespread media
 coverage and public dissemination.

    6. Impact on society and the economy

 Our three impact case studies and the examples provided in Section 1 above demonstrate the
 wide range of impacts that our researchers have achieved in the healthcare, pharmaceutical,
 biotechnology, and immunodiagnostics sectors. Highlights include:

    •   Temperton and Scott have developed a robust and safe system based on pseudotype
        viruses that allows research on highly pathogenic and dangerous viruses to be conducted
        in ordinary bioscience laboratories, reducing costs and increasing efficiency. Examples
        of such viruses include influenza, Ebola, and the COVID-19 coronavirus.
    •   Veale, Corlett, Bharmra, and Mathie are successfully developing opportunistic screening
        for atrial fibrillation to be conducted by clinical pharmacists in UK general practice. This
        will significantly reduce the costs and increase the efficacy of the efforts associated with
        highlighting the risks and significantly reducing the number of stroke cases in the UK and
        possibly worldwide.

 Our sustained contribution to society and the economy has been underpinned by our successful
 strategy to significantly increase income and maintain long-term collaborative partnerships with
 industry and other HE institutions. It reflects our success in recruiting and nurturing outstanding
 staff across all three of our research groups, and in providing a supportive and collegial research
 environment in which staff at all stages of their career can flourish.




                                                                                             Page 13
