Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  Institution: University of York

  Unit of Assessment: 18 – Law

  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1 LEGAL RESEARCH AT THE UNIVERSITY OF YORK

York Law School ('YLS') was created 14 years ago to carry out high-quality legal research and
build on the university’s rich tradition of outstanding and impactful interdisciplinary research within
the social sciences. YLS’ mission has been to serve as a hub to catalyse a new agenda of legally
relevant research across the university.

Our research structure and strategy over the current REF period have been directed towards
achieving and developing this foundational vision. Our strategy has been to foster disciplinary
excellence, while growing our capacity for interdisciplinary leadership. The School has retained a
particular focus on socially engaged research across the wide span of its activity. At the same time,
it has nurtured a research environment grounded in a shared sense of being a learning community,
where the boundaries within and beyond law are acknowledged to be porous. This consistent
preference for disciplinary openness has been a key theme of appointments during the School’s
expansion, allowing the foundation of a shared ethos between colleagues across a broadening
span of research. It is also consistent with the nature of our taught curriculum, which from the start
has dismantled traditional structural subject barriers within law, and subject barriers between law
and other disciplines. Openness to a variety of methodologies and disciplines are thus key features
of all our activities.

We have made excellent progress in creating a culture where legal researchers aspire to
contribute legal knowledge and expertise to other disciplines’ projects, and to draw on legal ideas,
methods and frameworks to shape agendas on grand research challenges. YLS scholars have led
a flourishing of excellent interdisciplinary collaborations (section 1.2), supported by a range of
mechanisms at both School and University level (section 3.2). Our openness to other disciplines is
also bearing fruit within the School’s own legal scholarship, allowing the opening up of fresh
avenues within legal research in its own right. A sense of intellectual community – both at
University and School level – has proven fertile ground for the development of outstanding legal
research.

During this REF period, the School has grown from having 19 Category A staff in 2013 to 28
Category A staff (27.3 FTE) at census. It has one interdisciplinary research centre, the Centre for
Applied Human Rights, which is shared with the Department of Politics and was an important
feature of the original vision for the School. We also have a law clinic which, in addition to serving
the local community, is embedded within our research environment (section 1.3). The School has
developed six new research ‘clusters’, marking the growth of research activities during the current
REF period. These clusters are organised around active research themes, following broad and
inclusive departmental discussion. They reflect and support the interests and ambitions of scholars
at all career stages. The current clusters relate to: administrative justice; critical corporate &
financial law; health & wellbeing; private law in context; rights, equality, citizenship &
empowerment; law, power & justice.


1.2 RESEARCH AMBITIONS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 2013-20
Our REF 2014 submission set out six key ambitions. Each of them has been achieved, as
evidenced below:




                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
To increase our capacity for interdisciplinary collaboration
-   Since REF 2014, 14 current staff (at all levels) have conducted, or are conducting, a total of 23
    joint projects (funded and unfunded) with 12 other University of York departments, across all 3
    Faculties. In 7 of these projects, YLS has been the lead department. Examples include:
       o   Jones’ (SL) work with Politics on the Protection of Rohingya Refugees (section 4.4)
       o   Morgan’s (SL) work with Philosophy and Computer Science on AI Law & Ethics (section
           3.2.1)
       o   Tomlinson’s (SL) work with Social Policy on COVID-19 (section 3.2.1)
       o   O’Brien’s (Prof) work with Politics on social rights after Brexit (section 4.4)
       o   Westwood’s (L) work with Social Policy on health care inequalities
-   A member of YLS (Arvind) was appointed the university’s ‘champion’ for the interdisciplinary
    research theme on ‘Risk, Evidence and Decision-Making’ from 2018 to 2020. This role, central
    to the university’s research strategy (REF5a, paras 4 and 11), required working with academics
    across the university, and taking a leadership role on creating and shaping agendas for broad
    cross-departmental collaboration.
-   We have systematically recruited scholars with experience or capacity in interdisciplinary
    working, including those who have trained or worked in other disciplines:
       o   Black (L) (Philosophy)
       o   Harrison (L) (Pharmacology)
       o   Leader (L) (Theatre Studies)
       o   Matravers (Prof) (Politics & Philosophy)
       o   McNamara (Reader) (Politics)
       o   Meers (L) (Social Policy)
       o   Westwood (L) (Social Gerontology)

To develop our international research partnerships and networks
-   We delivered 14 international research events during the REF period which produced:
           Six publications (Civitarese & Halliday, 2018; Nolan et al, 2018; Carr, Edgeworth &
           Hunter, 2018; Arvind & Steele, 2020; Lernestedt & Matravers, forthcoming 2021; Black
           et al, forthcoming 2021)
       o   One report for Australia’s Independent National Security Legislation Monitor
           (Blackbourn, McNamara & Brunton-Douglas, 2019)
       o   One special issue of Social & Legal Studies (forthcoming 2022, Arvind)
       o   One special issue of International Journal for Crime, Justice and Social Democracy
           (forthcoming 2021, Gilmore)
-   YLS played a leading role in the development of an institution-wide partnership with the
    University of Maastricht (REF5a, para 6). Wright (SL) led the Future of Europe research theme,
    securing funding for a series of workshops and subsequent publication.
-   8 YLS staff have held 16 visiting positions outside the UK during this REF period (section 4.1)

To increase our research income
-   Our yearly research income has almost tripled: from just over £100,000 in 2013-14 to just over
    £300,000 in 2019-2020 (section 3.1)




                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
To grow while maintaining research quality
-   Outstanding research profiles or potential have been central in recruitment for Category A staff,
    with the Director of Research involved in all appointments. We have consistently attracted new
    staff of the highest calibre who fit the School’s ethos of disciplinary openness, including those
    whose research has attracted prestigious awards (Arvind – SLS Best Paper Prize, ICLQ Young
    Scholar Prize; Rennuy – Common Market Law Review Prize; Tsarapatsanis – Paul Ricoeur
    Prize; Westwood – SLSA Early Career Book prize)

To improve the quality of research, across the board
-   A range of measures has been put in place to improve the quality of researchers’ work
    (sections 2.2; 3.2). Our selection of outputs indicates a significant growth in activity and
    strength in depth since the last REF, while there has been an important scaling up not only in
    award values (section 3.1), but also in the scale and ambition of our projects (e.g., Morgan’s
    (SL) work on AI Law & Ethics; Cismas’ (Reader) work on the Influence of Religious Leaders on
    Parties to Armed Conflict; and O’Brien’s (Prof) work on an EEA Public Services Research
    Clinic)

To enhance the impact of our research
-   We greatly enhanced the impact of our research beyond academia, through measures
    discussed in the next section (section 1.3)


1.3 IMPACT STRATEGY AND ACHIEVEMENTS 2013-2020

1.3.1 Strategic Aim
Our strategic aim, set out in REF 2014, was to consolidate the School’s emerging capabilities in
impact and to embed it as a core value of our environment. We achieved this by taking the
following steps:
-   We invested strategically through the external appointment to the role of Impact Lead
    (McNamara (Reader)), with experience both in academia and an NGO. Now Deputy Director of
    Research, he offers training on impact and works closely with colleagues to support impact
    activities, integrating YLS with Faculty and University strategies (REF 5a, para 12).
-   We have drawn actively on the University’s training and support structures for impact (REF 5a,
    para 12), including applications to its ESRC Impact Accelerator Account: during this REF
    period, there were 7 successful bids. These helped shape reports of independent reviews and
    research and policy agendas of civil society organisations; enabled researchers to build
    sustainable networks with civil society, government agencies and the private sector; and
    facilitated further collaborative research and funding that will see future impact. Equally, we
    harnessed the Social Science Faculty’s partnership with the Cabinet Office’s Open Innovation
    Team to facilitate the impact of YLS work: e.g., Tomlinson’s (SL) recent project on COVID-19,
    informing the Open Innovation Team about predictors of compliance with lockdown rules.
-   We have supported the secondment of staff to key organisations (appropriately reflected in our
    workload model) and formal project partnerships with external bodies. During this REF period,
    3 secondments were made (2 x Parliamentary Fellowships; 1 x secondment to the office of a
    UN Special Rapporteur), and 10 projects had 29 formal external partnerships (section 4.2.3).
-   We have additional ring-fenced School funds (£5,000 p.a.) to provide financial support for
    impact activities.
-   Impact awareness and motivation are key criteria for recruitment and are included in annual
    staff research planning meetings, in mentoring meetings, in research cluster activities and in
    PGR training reviews.




                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.3.2 Target Impact Audiences & Choice of Impact Case Studies (‘ICS’)
In REF2014, we identified three main audiences for our impact work: policymakers; the legal
services sector; and the public. During this REF period, we made significant advances in relation to
each:
-   Policy-Makers: a key element of the university’s approach to impact has been to support
    centres of research excellence with strong connections to policy-makers. Our Centre for
    Applied Human Rights (‘CAHR’) is exemplary in this regard. It has built a global reputation for
    research excellence in relation, inter alia, to Human Rights Defenders, and has consequently
    been able to develop relationships with key policy actors in this field. Our impact case study on
    Human Rights Defenders illustrates the benefits of this ‘centre-of-excellence’ approach to
    facilitating impact (section 4.2.1)
-   Legal Services Sector: here we can also see the benefits of a designated applied centre of
    excellence. Our case study on Refugee Protection, also based on CAHR’s work, illustrates the
    leverage that is gained through the use of policy / practice workshops, policy brief series and
    working papers to develop partnerships with and influences on key actors in the legal services
    world – in this ICS, those providing assistance to asylum-seekers or adjudicating matters
    concerning them
-   The public: we are also now seeing the benefits of embedding impact as a core value of the
    research environment. Our third ICS captures the School’s ambitions and processes
    particularly well, focusing on the work of O’Brien who, while an ECR, was mentored at YLS
    through the process of applying for ESRC Future Research Leaders’ funding, then formally
    mentored through the research period itself. Now a Professor, with further funding she has
    harnessed the capacity of our Law Clinic to develop a highly impactful research programme
    around the provision of legal advice. This work has been beneficial for all three of our impact
    audiences, including ordinary members of the public.


1.4 OPEN RESEARCH AND RESEARCH INTEGRITY
Consistent with university policy (REF5a, para 15), YLS encourages an open research
environment by way of mentoring, annual research planning meetings, and performance review
(sections 2.2), recognising the importance of democratising data and access across the discipline
and beyond. The data from Tomlinson’s recent study of COVID-19 lockdown compliance, e.g., has
already been shared with Edinburgh University, the survey instruments have been shared with the
LSE, UCL and the University of Chieti-Pescara, and the full dataset will be lodged at the end of the
grant period with the York Research Database for public use.
As regards research integrity, the university expects the highest standards from its members
(REF5a, para 14). Probationary staff, for example, are required to undertake appropriate training
(REF 5a, para 29) and post-doctoral research fellows have access to training via the university’s
Research Excellence Training Team (REF 5a, para 32). Within YLS, research integrity is promoted
and monitored through a variety of processes: in the mentoring process, yearly meetings with the
Research Director, and the School’s policy on the peer review of grant proposals prior to
submission. All PGRs, on commencement of their studies, undertake a Research Integrity Tutorial.
Thereafter, research integrity is overseen though supervision and Thesis Advisory Panels. All
research involving human subjects requires the approval of a cross-departmental ethics review
committee, on which designated Ethics Officers represent the School and CAHR.


1.5 FUTURE STRATEGY AND GOALS

For the next five years, we have set ourselves the following goals:
-   To improve the quality of research, across the board




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         a. We will draw on and provide excellent research support mechanisms – at University,
            Faculty and Schools levels (section 3.2) – to continuously stretch the intellectual
            ambitions of our researchers
-     To increase the extent of interdisciplinary collaborations, particularly with a view to promoting
      the contribution of legal research in meeting grand research challenges
         a. We will build on the university’s cross-disciplinary openness (REF 5a, para 4) to
            introduce legal questions, methods and frameworks into the response to grand
            research challenges
         b. We will extend our participation in university-sponsored events targeted at cross-
            disciplinary conversations (REF5a, para 10), showing leadership in setting agendas and
            framing priorities
-     To diversify the range of impact and beneficiaries from our research
         a. We will integrate external stakeholders into the life of the School through visiting
            appointments and fellowships of practitioners and professionals to build impact
            networks and the co-production of research
         b. We will extend the range of potential research beneficiaries, building on work that
            promises impact for the private and civil society sectors
-     To increase research income
         a. Through our research support mechanisms (sections 2.2.; 3.2), we will encourage staff
            at all levels to engage in the most ambitious projects, including collaborative
            endeavours with other disciplines, both within and outwith the university
         b. We will target a diverse range of funding sources in order to make our income stream
            sustainable
-     To increase our success with funded PGR students and funded Postdoctoral Fellowships
         a. We will increase applications for competitive funding sources for PhD students (e.g.,
            UKRI studentships)
         b. Having trialled a ‘PhD application workshop’ in 2019, we will establish this as a
            permanent feature of student support and PhD recruitment
         c. We will make targeted efforts to use competitive funding sources for postdoctoral
            fellowships, including through developing strong external applicants by engaging them
            with the YLS community in the year prior to application (e.g., as visiting PhD students,
            presenting staff seminars, external members of research clusters)
-     To better represent diversity, including and beyond gender, within our research community
         a. We will develop a framework to systematically collect and use data about our progress
            in relation to equality, diversity, and inclusion, so as to improve our decision-making and
            performance
         b. We will create a rolling EDI action plan, updated annually, to scrutinise and evaluate our
            progress in achieving greater diversity and inclusion, and creating a culture of
            embedded EDI within the school
         c. We will seek external awards – including applying for an Athena Swan Bronze award
            and becoming a Stonewall champion – to validate and benchmark our processes

    2. People


The ‘learning community’ that sits at the heart of the School’s founding vision embraces both
students and staff at all levels. Our ambition is to sustain an environment where everyone feels
properly valued and supported in their development as scholars.


                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.1 STAFFING PROFILE & STRATEGY
As a relatively new School, we had a strategic commitment to growth during this REF period,
increasing from 19 to 28 Category A staff (27.3 FTE). With 7 members of staff leaving through
retirement or for academic opportunities elsewhere, we recruited 16 new Category A overall staff
during this REF period:
-   8xL
-   2 x SL
-   2 x Reader
-   4 x Prof
Additionally, we employed 3 post-doctoral fellows on the basis of external grant income. With the
exception of the post-docs (all of whom have now successfully moved to other opportunities), all
staff were recruited to permanent posts.

The Category A staff profile at census was as follows:

       Lecturers             Senior Lecturers               Readers                  Professors
       9 (8.6 FTE)                    7                    3 (2.8 FTE)               9 (8.9 FTE)

Strategically, we secured a stable balance of junior and senior staff, with sufficient numbers of
experienced senior staff to provide leadership in the School’s governance over time. The School’s
sustainability is further promoted through rigorous career development and support mechanisms
(section 2.2), promoting the capacity of junior staff to grow in ability, experience and confidence.

Our strategy for the next REF period is to accept a slower rate of growth whilst securing durability
in the character and quality of our research. We will continue to appoint excellent scholars who
share our value of disciplinary openness across the range of expertise, including in the core legal
subjects. Our recruitment criteria, research strategy, and systems for supporting ECRs and PGRs
will continue to emphasise both research excellence and the capacity for interdisciplinary
collaboration and impactful research, as well as the ability to contribute to the evolution of existing
strengths.


2.2 SUPPORT FOR THE CAREER DEVELOPMENT OF STAFF
We have excellent staff development processes in place, consistent with the University’s policy
(REF 5a, para 22). The effectiveness of our policies and practices is evidenced by the career
progressions amongst Category A staff during this REF period:
-   All nine current lecturers successfully completed their probationary periods
-   Six of our seven senior lecturers were promoted from lecturer (Etherington; Jones; Morgan;
    Waring; Wilson; Wright)
-   One of our three readers was promoted from senior lecturer (Cismas)
-   One of our professors was promoted from senior lecturer (O’Brien - formerly an ECR who
    secured her first post at York)
These successes are a result of the following support systems:

For All Staff
At School level, we have adopted the following processes:
-   Annual research planning with the Research Director: these meetings are supportive and
    developmental in aim, entirely separate from formal performance review. Individuals are
    encouraged to prepare a rolling five-year programme of work that reflects their scholarly goals
-   A clear and transparent process of Annual Performance Review: this provides opportunities to


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    raise issues which impact upon colleagues’ ability to achieve their career ambitions. A
    proactive approach is taken to issues of well-being during these meetings. On a number of
    occasions (details omitted for reasons of privacy), adjustments in workload or the scope of
    allocated roles have been made as a direct result of these discussions. 94% of Category A
    staff recently reported finding these reviews helpful (Athena Swan survey)
-   The School operates a transparent workload model. It allocates 40% of time to research for
    staff
-   The Schools assigns administrative and leadership roles through open calls to which all staff
    may apply, thus offering career development opportunities to all
-   We have a Research Leave policy based on a clear set of principles, published and reviewed
    annually by our research committee. There is a normal expectation of two terms’ leave in every
    four years, higher than the institutional norm, reflecting the need for concentrated time to focus
    on extended projects. This approach has enabled, e.g., O’Loughlin (L) and Morgan (SL) to
    make significant progress on their monographs (both to be published in 2021), and Nolan
    (Prof) to bring to fruition 2 years’ work, resulting in a full length LQR piece. There has been a
    steady and strategic growth in the numbers of colleagues on research leave in each academic
    year, in addition to those with funded leave. Our policy is to treat these separately so that
    School expectations of leave remain intact. Flexibility in the principles has enabled accelerated
    leave to be awarded on five occasions during the current REF period. Twenty-two colleagues
    between them were granted a total of 70 terms’ leave during the period, of which 48 were fully
    funded by the School.

For Early-Career Researchers
Both at university level and within the School there are specific support mechanisms for early
career researchers:
-   New probationary lecturers undertake a Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice, which
    includes a specific focus on research activities (REF 5a, para 29), including writing for
    publication, doctoral supervision, research career development, and research planning. YLS
    gives its probationary lecturers an allowance of 90 hours for this in their workload
-   Within the School itself, probationary lecturers are allocated mentors, with annual review
    meetings, and are additionally given a lighter teaching and administrative workload
-   We encourage and support ECRs through their first experiences of funding applications,
    targeting, where appropriate, developmental funds. During this REF period, 4 ECRs (Black,
    Meers, O’Loughlin, Westwood) were successful in obtaining funds such as University Pump
    Priming Awards, Impact Accelerator Awards and White Rose Network Collaboration Funds.
    These opportunities provide important skills development and confidence-building experiences,
    resulting in concrete outcomes (e.g., building networks outside academia with recognition from
    research users; contract for an edited collection) and operate as a platform for future success
    in larger and external funding competitions.

For Mid-Career and Senior Researchers
The School encourages established staff to undertake training programmes offered through the
University’s Research Excellence Training Team (REF 5a, para 32), aimed at next generation
leaders. During the current REF period,
-   Two members of YLS staff undertook the Research Leadership course (Halliday, O’Brien)
-   One member of staff undertook the Leading Without A Team course (Wright)

2.3 EVIDENCE OF SUPPORT FOR EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
We are building a reputation as an open, welcoming and supportive place of work for researchers
from a wide range of backgrounds, researching a broad array of topics from a wide range of
theoretical perspectives. We have drawn on the literature on addressing equality and diversity

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
issues to frame an ambitious agenda in relation to our research environment and the way it builds
and shapes our activities.
Over this REF period, this has produced a considerable broadening of areas in which YLS scholars
publish, which now includes, illustratively, topics such as ageing, gender, and sexuality; the law’s
colonial pasts; and human rights and neglected tropical diseases. All of these areas are
represented in our submitted outputs, impact case studies and major funded research grant
applications.
Our policies in relation to recruitment, promotion, research leave, and provision of internal funding
expressly seek to ensure that common sources of implicit bias have been eliminated, and that all
decisions are made according to published principles. Our practices more generally evidence a
commitment to an inclusive research environment that supports staff in achieving their potential. In
a 2019 staff survey conducted to inform our Athena Swan application, 100% of female Category A
staff agreed with the statement: ‘I consider that YLS is a great place to work for women.’
The School has appointed an Equality and Diversity Champion at Chair level in line with university
policy. S/he is an ex officio member of the School’s management team, ensuring that all decision-
making is scrutinised from an EDI perspective. Selection panels undergo EDI and unconscious
bias training. Selection panels and decision-making committees are in the aggregate also balanced
in respect of level of seniority, gender, and research focus, with opportunity and participation
spread across staff.
Promotion and other statistics are monitored on an ongoing basis: e.g., 67% of staff promoted
during this REF period were women; on the basis of last year’s audit of the School’s seminar
series, we have this year encouraged colleagues to suggest female speakers from ethnic minority
backgrounds, with excellent results. We will build a balanced profile of speakers for the future,
around all dimensions including ethnicity and seniority.
Issues of disability are raised through a variety of mechanisms (directly with the School’s disability
officer; performance review; annual research planning; mentoring). The School’s disability officer is
responsive to the ongoing needs of researchers. During this REF period, bespoke provision was
made for both physical and temporary cognitive needs, including assistance from the university’s
occupational health team.
The School is responsive to and facilitates requests for periods of part time working and flexible
working arrangements (e.g., for those with caring responsibilities) without an adverse impact on
career progression opportunities. Research leave is available to colleagues with fractional
contracts, and periods of parental and sick leave are treated in the same way as normal service for
the purposes of calculating expected dates of research leave. At census, three Category A staff in
the School were working part time (1 woman; 2 men). Two other colleagues have had discrete
periods of part time working at their request during the REF period.
The School gives a high level of visibility to diversity in its public profile and communications: the
staff newsletter as well as external newsletters. We have also created a feminist research &
teaching group to promote the insights of feminist research and methods throughout the School’s
activities. Convenorship of this group is recognised within our workload model as a leadership
position.
Our support for and progress in equality and diversity is also evidenced through the selection of
outputs for the REF:
-   Of colleagues with 5 pieces returned for this exercise, 75% are women (including double
    weightings)
-   Of 5 extended works selected for double-weighting, 80% are by women
-   While 39% of our Category A staff are women, 48% of our outputs (including double
    weightings) have been authored by women (internal co-authorship counted proportionately)
The proportionately higher contribution of women has been recognised by the department, as
evidenced by the fact that they accounted for 67% of promotions, as discussed above.
Nevertheless, we have not been as successful as we would have liked in relation to some key
aspects of diversity. Although women have been well represented in the School Management

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Team during this REF period (Head of School; Deputy Head of School; Research Director), we
have seen a slight decline in the proportion of women Professors. And we remain slightly below an
equal gender balance overall in Category A staff (4 of 9 Lecturers; 3 of 7 Senior Lecturers; 1 of 3
Readers; and 3 of 9 Professors). This is also true of BAME staff (2 of 28 staff).
To address this, and to evaluate our performance in relation to inclusivity more generally, we are
implementing a new programme of action for EDI, including staff composition in the School. This
has already identified issues relating, e.g., to supporting staff returning to work after parental leave
in resuming interdisciplinary networks and connections. We have also created a system of external
mentoring, whereby we provide funding for staff to have an external mentor from a more diverse
range of persons if desired, or to work collaboratively with organisations that represent diverse
constituencies.
We are also engaging with external bodies to evaluate our processes. An application for an Athena
Swan Bronze award was prepared during this REF period, though submission was delayed by
COVID-19. We intend to apply to become a Stonewall champion in the next REF period. The
School has also initiated a consultation on framing an EDI strategy to better represent dimensions
of diversity within its ethos and policies.


2.4 IMPLEMENTATION OF CONCORDAT FOR CAREER DEVELOPMENT OF RESEARCHERS
YLS appointed its first post-doctoral fellows in the period from March 2018, all three of whom were
externally funded on short fixed-term contracts. Implementation of the Concordat was considered
by our research committee in 2018 and a range of support measures established:
-   Mentoring and careers advice via supervisors/mentors and the Research Director
-   Advice on applications for Lectureships and competitive research funds
-   Inclusion of postdoctoral fellows in research clusters, research seminars, research ‘boot camps’
    and annual away-days
-   Postdoctoral representation on research committee
In addition, our post-doctoral fellows had access to a suite of training opportunities provided by the
University’s Research Excellence Training Team (REF 5a, para 32), between them undertaking a
total of 6 training modules. All three fellows successfully moved on to other opportunities: Gilgan
secured an academic post at the end of her ESRC fellowship; Kao moved into legal practice;
Skowron secured a full-time post in the public sector.


2.5 PGR STUDENTS
We have seen strong, but controlled growth in numbers during this REF period. At the time of
REF2014, the School had graduated 5 PGR students. Since then, a further 28 PGR students have
completed, including those shared and co-supervised with other departments. We have also seen
growing success in competitive awards. During this REF period, 12 PGRs commenced studies with
external funding awards (ESRC; AHRC; N8 Policing Network). The School funded a further 3
studentships itself.
Training needs analysis, doctoral training and progress review are offered under the auspices of
the York Graduate Research School (REF 5a, para 30). Equally, the university’s Research
Excellence Training Team provides training for PGRs in a range of areas (REF 5a, para 32). As a
member of the White Rose ESRC and AHRC doctoral training partnerships (REF 5a, para 6), all
Law PGR students have access to DTP training events, in both skills and methods. Law PGRs are
also encouraged to attend relevant modules in the Social Sciences Faculty that match their training
needs (e.g., Ellis, Gracie, Keech and Pringle in qualitative methods). Our PGRs meet with the
university’s Law Librarian at the outset of their studies and are provided with direct support from
him/her as needed throughout their research.
YLS itself offers additional training in project design, legal research methods, and critical reading,
overseen by the PG Programme Leader during students’ first years of study. An annual student

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
presentation of ongoing research allows all of our PGR students to engage in debate with peers,
including staff, during their studies. All research students are allocated to a research cluster and
encouraged to participate in cluster activities. There is also financial support of individual PGR
activities such as conference attendance, fieldwork expenses and impact activities through School
Research funds (baseline of £500 each p.a.).
The School regards PGR students as full members of our learning community. As such, we employ
a range of measures with a view to PGRs’ broader support and inclusion. PGRs participate in the
School’s seminar programme, including presentation of papers or acting as discussant to guest
speakers (Keech; Ellis). There is an emerging practice of contribution of outputs to projects
organised within the School (e.g., Meers in Halliday’s collection of essays; Ellis in Arvind & Steele’s
collection of essays). PGR representatives are included in School’s research committee and
Graduate School Board and in staff meetings discussing research strategy. There is also
continuing informal support for PGR students on completion: e.g., Gilgan’s ESRC post-doc
fellowship was a direct result of such support.
Law PGRs are supported in engaging in the wider University community through the showcasing of
their work in, e.g., University-wide PhD Spotlight competitions (REF 5a, para 32), with two YLS
winners in recent years (Geyser, Killen).


 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities


The School operates with the benefit of excellent facilities – not only in terms of buildings and
materials, but also as regards people and processes, both at School and institutional level. This
has led to notable successes during this REF period as regards income generation (section 3.1)
and interdisciplinary working (section 1.2).


3.1 RESEARCH INCOME
As a consequence of a range of research support measures (section 3.2), we achieved significant
growth in research income, in excess of the increase in staff numbers. Whereas the number of
Category A staff during this REF period grew by a factor of 1.5 (from 19 to 28 individuals), our
yearly research income increased by a factor of 2.8 (from £113,000 to £314,000).

                                    Yearly Research Income
              350,000

              300,000

              250,000

              200,000

              150,000

              100,000

               50,000

                    0
                        2013/14 2014/15   2015/16 2016/17 2017/18     2018/19 2019/20



We strategically broadened the range of our funders, attracting over £1m in total. Most of our
funding (69%) came from UKRI (ESRC, AHRC, NERC, BA), with the rest (31%) coming from UK
government and EU institutions, UK and EU charities via open competitive processes (Leverhulme,
Nuffield, JRF, ISRF, Wellcome, IFA), and overseas research councils (Norway, Switzerland). This

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
income total represents 24 separate projects, involving 16 YLS staff members. In 17 of these
projects, the YLS staff member was the principal investigator (‘PI’).
Our research support strategy (section 3.2) has focused on ensuring the sustainability of our
research income into the future. The effectiveness of our approach is evidenced not only by the
broadening profile of funders, but also by the wide seniority range of staff attracting research funds.
The table below offers a snapshot of the profile (at the point of application) of YLS PIs and Co-Is,
and the corresponding sum of the research grant spend during this REF period. As ECRs gain
confidence in both internal and external funding competitions, they are supported in the stretching
of their funding ambitions as their careers progress (see also section 2.2).


    PIs & Co-Is at time of application       Number of Research          Sum of Research Spend
                                                  Grants                     during REF (£)

    Associate Lecturer                                 1                           71,288

    Lecturer                                           3                          142,642

    Senior Lecturer                                    6                          459,787

    Reader                                             1                           94,459

    Professor                                          6                          273,771


3.2 RESEARCH SUPPORT

3.2.1 University & Faculty Support
YLS staff draw actively on a superb university-level infrastructure targeted at research
development and interdisciplinary initiatives.
The university has both a Research and Development Innovation Team and a group of
interdisciplinary ‘Research Champions’, specifically set up to support strategic research
development (REF 5a, paras 4, 10). They connect researchers across departmental and faculty
boundaries through a variety of mechanisms (workshops, sandpits, directed introductions, etc).
YLS staff have made great use of this highly supportive infrastructure during this REF period: e.g.,
-     Morgan’s (SL) European Commission grant on Robotics for Inspection and Maintenance (with
      Computer Science: 2019-2022)
-     Arvind’s (Prof) forthcoming ESPRC project on Trustworthy Autonomous Systems Node in
      Resilience (with Computer Science, Philosophy, and Mathematics: 2020-2024)
-     Bell’s (Prof) NERC grant on Uptake of Chemicals on Legacy Waste Sites (with Environment &
      Geography, History and Chemistry: 2020-2023)
The university, as a member of the White Rose Universities Consortium (with Leeds and Sheffield
– REF 5a, para 6), promotes and financially supports inter-institutional and interdisciplinary work.
Successes here included:
-     Morgan’s (SL) collaboration funds regarding AI Law and Ethics (with Computer Science,
      Philosophy, Sociology, Politics, Psychology at York; Computer Science, Mechanical
      Engineering, Applied Ethics at Leeds; Sociology, Robotics, Philosophy, Politics, Education,
      Medicine, Engineering, Information at Sheffield)
-     Wilson’s (SL) collaborative PhD studentship on Crime, Innovation and the Technology of
      Money (with History at Leeds University)
Junior researchers enjoy cross-disciplinary mentoring opportunities at university level, such as the

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
‘Research Grant Boot Camp’ where cross-disciplinary mentors work intensively with junior staff
around project ideas over a 2-day period (co-organised in 2018 and 2019 by Arvind). Five YLS
junior staff (1 x post-doc fellow; 4 x lecturers) have taken advantage of this opportunity (Black;
Gilgan; Gilmore; Meers; O’Loughlin). Two senior YLS staff (Arvind & Halliday) have acted as
mentors for ECRs from other departments.
The university offers a wide variety of central research priming funds. We have recently achieved
good success with such applications (Black, Meers, Westwood (L); Morgan (SL)), which will bear
fruit in the next REF period.
The Faculty of Social Science has an Associate Dean for Research whose role includes the
creation of interdisciplinary relationships within the faculty: e.g., Tomlinson’s (SL) recent
partnership with Social Policy for his project on Law & Compliance during COVID-19 (2020-2021).

3.2.2 School-Level Support
At School level, research is promoted and supported by a number of mechanisms. A ‘Research
Grants Lead’, and an ‘Impact Lead’ were created during this REF period and provide one-to-one
support for project development. They encourage colleagues to be ambitious, but are responsive
to their needs and sensibilities, offering support in a range of ways, such as:
-   Rigorous peer review of a full draft of a grant application (e.g., McNamara’s (Reader) British
    Academy Mid-Career Research Fellowship);
-   Working intensively with someone on a particular aspect of a grant application (e.g., the
    ‘pathways to impact’ section of Cismas’ (SL) successful ESRC grant);
-   Working continuously with someone throughout the full research development and application
    process (e.g., Gilgan’s (Assoc L) successful ESRC PDRF application; Westwood’s (L) ESRC
    New Investigators Grant application) (through to final assessment panel, outcome pending)
    where support was provided within this REF period.
The School has additional and extensive expertise in research award decision-making (section
4.3.3) and uses this for additional peer review.
A position of research facilitator (0.5 FTE) was created in 2016 to assist staff with the identification
of funding sources, and the processing of grant applications. This post has directly supported our
increase in research income, as the above graph indicates
All staff and PGRs are members of at least one of six research clusters (section 1.1). These
support and develop individuals’ research agendas, and provide an outward-facing identity that can
assist with external engagement. Clusters can bid for dedicated funding to support their activities
(e.g., the seminars conducted by Arvind and Steele, and Black: section 1.2). The School also
directly financially supports events that promote interdisciplinary working (e.g., McNamara’s
workshop on revocation of citizenship, 2018; Tomlinson’s workshop on benefits sanctions, 2019).
A personal annual research budget of £1250 is available from School funds for all staff. Additional
discretionary funds, on application, are operated by the research committee.

3.3 ADMINISTRATIVE, IT AND STRATEGIC SUPPORT
At School level, staff are supported by an administrative of staff of eight (6.5 FTE), including a
Research Facilitator (0.5 FTE) and PGR administrator (0.8 FTE). All staff and PGRs have access
to excellent IT facilities, supported by a central university IT team. Access to, and training in a wide
range of research support and data analysis software packages (e.g., Endnote; SPSS; NVivo) are
made available centrally. Remote electronic meeting facilities were well-established pre-COVID-19
and so enabled the School to quickly adapt to remote research practices during COVID-19.
At Faculty level, there is a Research Group for the chairs of departmental research committees,
which promotes research policy discussion in an interdisciplinary setting, and an Impact Group for
departmental impact leads, which promotes and provides support for impact in departments and
for IAA awards. The School’s research programme is further supported by the Faculty’s Dean,
Associate Dean for Research, and Impact Manager, who participate in a yearly ‘medium-term

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
planning’ process where the School’s research strategy and planning is reviewed.

3.4 LIBRARY FACILITIES
The Library is located centrally. During the REF period it has improved its space and opening
hours, and the availability and remote access to electronic resources (REF 5a, para 39). It has also
increased its expenditure on the law collection. The law librarian offers a range of research support
services, especially those targeted at our PGRs, including generic training on poster presentations,
reference management, and literature searching, as well as offering bespoke one-to-one
appointments.

3.5 BUILDINGS
Since 2011, the School has been housed in the purpose-built Law and Management Building
(‘LMB’). Both the Law School and the School of Management have grown substantially. With new
premises being developed for Management, Law will soon be able to expand its space, housing
PGR students together with the School, and allowing more ambitious research visitor and
fellowship programmes.
The Faculty has a dedicated building for the Research Centre for Social Sciences, which provides
meeting and desk spaces for PGR students, and has been home to the CAHR.
Throughout the REF period, LMB and the adjacent Ron Cooke Hub have provided excellent
conference and workshop facilities, which were used, e.g., for the Society of Legal Scholars
Conference in 2015.


    4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society



The Law School produces world-leading research that is excellent in its own right, introduces law
to other disciplines in meeting national and global research challenges, and is applied in focus.
Thus, contribution and leadership both within and beyond the research base is inherent in our
vision.


4.1 SUPPORT FOR RESEARCH COLLABORATIONS, NETWORKS AND PARTNERSHIPS
Staff are encouraged and supported to develop extensive networks, both nationally and
internationally, both within and outwith the discipline. Such networking brings back to YLS an
understanding of the requirements of national and international research communities. Drawing
actively on university strategies and networks, including the university champions and the White
Rose Consortium (REF 5a, paras 6 & 10), YLS promotes networking through its mentoring,
research cluster activity, research planning meetings, performance reviews (section 3.2.2) and
direct financial support.
Many examples of networking are already noted elsewhere in this document (sections 1.2 & 3.2.1).
Additional examples of networking during this REF period include:
-     Halliday (Prof), as part of a multi-disciplinary team with Lund, Sweden, securing funding from
      the Swedish Research Council, introducing the significance of legal consciousness to the
      understanding of climate change adaptation
-     Jones (SL) becoming a partner of the Human Rights Resilience Project (Columbia Law School
      & NYU School of Law)
-     O’Loughlin (L) acting as Co-I on a project with the Department of Social Policy and Social Work
      regarding ‘relational’ risk management in work with personality disordered offenders’, launching
      a University-wide Personality Disorder Network
-     Westwood (L) setting up a multi-disciplinary group of researchers from the UK, US, Australia,

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    and Canada, developing research priorities regarding sexual orientation and religious rights
    tensions in older age care spaces
There are also instances of networking and collaboration through YLS staff taking up Visiting
Chairs and Fellowships:
-   Cullen (Adjunct Research Professor, University of Oslo, 2019 -)
-   Matravers (Oldenburg, 2014; and Minnesota, 2014)
-   Morgan (Georgetown, 2015; Hong Kong 2015 and 2019; Trinity College Dublin 2019;
    Singapore Management University, 2020)
-   Nolan (Cheng Yu Tung Visiting Professor, University of Hong Kong, 2013-18)
-   Halliday (Conjoint Chair at UNSW, 2013-2016)
-   Black (Collaborative Residency at Fondation Brocher, Switzerland, 2015; with Skelton,
    Western Canada, 2015; and Forsberg, 2015)
-   O’Loughlin (Kooijmans Fellowship, Faculty of Law at Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, 2019)
-   Wright (European University Institute, 2014; and iCourts Centre of Excellence for International
    Courts at Copenhagen, 2014)


4.2 ENGAGEMENT WITH RESEARCH BENEFICIARIES AND CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMY
AND SOCIETY
As part of our impact strategy (section 1.3), the School engages in extensive collaboration and
knowledge exchange activities with external partners to promote the immediate impact of our
research, and to build relationships that will endure and form a basis for ongoing impact.
The impact of our research has been local, regional, national, and international. Beneficiaries of
impact-oriented activities include CABx, civil society groups, corporations, governments and
parliaments in the UK and abroad, housing officers and tenants, human rights defenders,
international organisations, journalists, lawyers and judges, legal advisors, local authorities,
migrants, protestors, and supranational bodies.
Strategically, three models of collaboration and knowledge exchange in particular have been
adopted:

4.2.1 Centre of Excellence
The Centre for Applied Human Rights provides an outstanding example of the strategic
development of collaborative research at York (section 1.3). CAHR researchers have an
internationally recognised presence in human rights issues and engage regularly with
organisations such as the International Red Cross and the United Nations Special Rapporteur.
Ways of developing these links included:
-   Organisation of workshops to discuss practice and research
-   Secondment of a member of staff to the UNSR/ OHCR
-   The development of a working paper series and policy brief series
-   Consultation on new policies (e.g., legal guidance on refugee definition; development of new
    tool to assess national legislation)
-   Leadership of civil society organisations (Egyptian Foundation for Refugee Rights;
    UK/international refugee legal aid funder) and coalitions (international coalition of refugee legal
    aid organisations; legal advisor to Asia Pacific regional network of civil society organisations on
    refugee issues)
CAHR launched a Human Rights Defenders Hub in 2016, funded as a ‘global thought leader’ by
the Open Society. The Hub’s ‘rapid research response’ service involves the prompt production of
research to support the immediate needs of strategic partners, initially piloted through a strategic

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
partnership with the Special Procedures Branch of the United Nations Office of the High
Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) which supports the mandate of the UN Special
Rapporteur on the situation of Human Rights Defenders.
CAHR also works locally and has led a diverse network of local actors including the City of York
Council, statutory agencies such as the police, voluntary sector groups and others in establishing
York as the UK’s first Human Rights City, aiming to integrate human rights into policy and practice
within the city.

4.2.2. Advice and Consultancy to Public Organisations and Civil Society
Engagement with courts, governmental organisations, policy-makers and, more recently, civil
society actors runs across the breadth of the School’s research. Engagement with such
organisations and actors during this REF period included the following:
-   A number of YLS staff have had their work cited in senior and appellate court judgments:
    o Arvind (Trinidad & Tobago)
    o McNamara (South Africa)
    o Morgan (Australia, Ireland, UK)
    o Nolan (UK)
    o O’Brien (UK and ECJ)
    o Rennuy (ECJ)
    o Steele (UK)
    o Thomas (Australia)
-   A number of YLS staff have had their work cited in the reports and documents of public bodies:
    e.g.,
     o   Government of Canada
     o   Law Commission of England and Wales
     o   Scottish Parliament Information Centre
     o   Oireachtas Committee on Justice
     o   Government of Western Australia
-   Cullen advised Finance Watch, a Brussels-based NGO
-   Hunter (Prof) provided consultancy to the Welsh Government on the sale and use of
    leaseholds in Wales (2019)
-   Hunter and Meers (L) provided advice to the London Assembly on property guardians
-   Morgan (SL) assembled an interdisciplinary group (Management, Sociology, and Philosophy)
    to respond to a Law Commission consultation on automated vehicles
-   McNamara (Reader) has made several submissions and given evidence to law reform bodies
    and parliamentary committees, both in UK and Australia, with recommendations taken up
-   Rennuy (L) authored more than twenty reports for the European Commission (D.G.
    Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion) and gave training to EURES advisers (first-tier
    advisors to EU migrants on social security, tax and labour law)
-   Tomlinson (SL) was an Academic Panel member of the Administrative Justice Council and of a
    Civil Justice Council’s expert advisory group examining the impact of COVID-19 on the civil
    justice system
-   Wright (SL) advised the House of Commons Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy Select
    Committee in the context of ‘Brexit and the implications for UK business’. She also briefed the
    Welsh Senedd on No Deal Brexit legislation (2019) and on the EU internal market (2020)

4.2.3. Co-Production of Research & Project Partnership
We have placed an emphasis on developing relationships with external bodies for both the co-
development of research questions and collaborations in the implementation of our research ideas.
In this vein, we developed a ‘Research and Practice Fellows’ scheme. The first of these (McKay,
appointed 2019) is a human rights lawyer with policing and national security expertise. Other
                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
examples of our collaborative approach, in addition to those detailed in our Impact Case Studies,
include the following:
-   Cismas’ (reader) partnership with the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Freedom of
    Religion or Belief, Geneva Call, Diakonia Global Centre for International Humanitarian Law,
    and the International Committee of the Red Cross (project: Generating Respect for
    Humanitarian Norms: The Influence of Religious Leaders on Parties to Armed Conflicts);
-   Cismas’ collaboration with GESNOMA (University Hospitals Geneva), Sentinelles, Doctors
    Without Borders (project: Noma, Human Rights, Global Health);
-   Hunter (Prof) and Meers’ (L) engagement with local housing authorities and others in relation to
    the practical dimensions of housing policy work
-   Hunter’s work with LEASE, providing an audit of their services
-   Tomlinson’s (SL) work with the Public Law Project (project: Evidence in Judicial Review
    Litigation)
-   Tomlinson, Halliday (Prof) and Meer’s (L) work with the Cabinet Office (project: Law and
    Compliance during COVID-19)


4.3 CONTRIBUTION TO SUSTAINABILITY OF THE DISCIPLINE

YLS scholars have made a wide range of contributions to the vitality of the discipline of law during
this REF period, including the following:

4.3.1 Research Scholarship Events
Leadership has been demonstrated by the organisation of research events. In addition to the
international events mentioned above (section 1.2), the following are examples of national events
organised by existing staff:
-   McNamara (Reader) co-organised a symposium, “Towards a National Commitment to Open
    Justice Data in the UK’ (2019)
-   O’Brien (Prof) co-organised a symposium on ‘Brexit: What Welfare? What Rights for Migrants
    in Britain?’ with Welfare Conditionality Project (2017)
-   Waring (SL) co-organised a workshop on Landmark Cases in Property Law (publication in
    2015, Hart Publishing)
-   McNamara (Reader) ran and co-presented a session for PGRs and ECRs, “Understanding the
    REF” (2020), which attracted nearly 500 registrations from over 60 institutions with participants
    from across A&H and Social Sciences.

4.3.2. Learned Societies
YLS staff have also made contributions to learned societies:
-   Steele (Prof) was appointed to the Presidency of the Society of Legal Scholars for 2014-15,
    hosting the Annual Conference at York in 2015
-   Meers (L) co-convened SLSA’s ‘Social Rights Citizenship & the Welfare State’ stream (2017 -)
-   Morgan (SL) and Black (L) were convenors of SLS subject sections
-   Wright (SL) was co-convenor of SLSA’s ‘EU’ stream (2013-15)

4.3.3. Grant Committees
During this REF period:
-   Arvind, Halliday, Hunter, Matravers and O’Brien (Profs), Cismas and McNamara (Readers) and
    Tomlinson (SL) were members of the AHRC and ESRC peer review colleges


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
-   Black (L) and Wilson (SL) sat on the White Rose AHRC Doctoral Training funding panel.
-   Halliday and Bell (Profs) sat on the funding panel of the White Rose ESRC DTP (chaired by
    Halliday, 2019-2020)
-   Tomlinson (SL) was a member of the Digital Freedom Fund’s Panel of Experts
-   Wright (SL) and Halliday (Prof) served as evaluation panel experts for the European
    Commission’s Marie Sklodowska Curie Fellowships

4.3.4 Advisory Boards
YLS staff have also supported the research community through membership of advisory boards.
During this REF period, the following advisory board work was undertaken:
-   Gilmore (L): ESRC funded project, Policing the Covid Crisis, University of Manchester
-   Halliday (Prof): Centre for Socio-Legal Studies, Oxford University (2014-2016); European
    Research Council project, Refugees are Migrants: Refugee Mobility, Recognition and Rights
    (2019-); ESRC project, EEA Public Services Research Clinic (2020-)
-   McNamara (Reader): Information Law & Policy Centre at IALS; the Public Law and Policy Unit,
    University of Adelaide
-   Thomas (Reader): Wellcome Trust project, The Everyday Cyborg: Mapping Legal, Ethical, &
    Conceptual Challenges, University of Birmingham
-   Tomlinson (SL): Nuffield Foundation project, Administrative Justice in Wales (2018-2020);
    ESRC project, Virtual Justice (2020-); ESRC project, Algorithmic politics and administrative
    justice in the EU Settlement Scheme (2020-)

4.3.5. Editorial work
Significant international leadership in editorial responsibilities includes the following:
-   Arvind (Prof) is founding editor and articles editor of the Indian Law Review (the first academic-
    edited law journal to be established in India or in respect of Indian law)
-   The editorship within CAHR of the Journal of Human Rights Practice
-   Etherington (SL) is joint editor of Environmental Law Reports; and Environmental Law Bulletin
-   Gilmore (L) is Associate Editor, Justice, Power and Resistance
-   Halliday (Prof) is Associate Editor and Book Reviews Editor, Social and Legal Studies
-   Matravers (Prof) is co-editor in chief, Criminal Law and Philosophy; and review editor, Critical
    Review of International Social and Political Philosophy
-   Meers (L) is cases editor, Journal of Social Welfare and Family Law, and news editor for the
    Journal of Social Security Law
-   Morgan (SL) is Book Review and Review article editor, Journal of Professional Negligence and
    an editor of the Professional Negligence and Liability Reports
-   Tomlinson (SL) is an editor of the Administrative Law Blog, an internationally focused online
    publication


4.4 RESPONSIVENESS TO NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL PRIORITIES AND INITIATIVES

The growing sustainability and focus of our research, and the value of the new support
mechanisms we have put in place, have put us in a position to respond to rapid-response funding
calls and initiatives reflecting national and international priorities, with considerable success:

-   Jones (SL), The Verandah of Protection: Violence, History and the Protection of Rohingya
    refugees in Aceh (BA’s Global Challenge Research Fund)

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
-   Jones (SL), The Law of Asylum in the Middle East (ESRC Global Challenge Research Fund)
-   O’Brien (Prof), EEA Public Services Research Clinic (ESRC’s ‘Governance After Brexit’ call)
-   Tomlinson (SL), Law & Compliance during COVID-19 (Nuffield Foundation’s ‘Social
    Dimensions of Covid-19’ call)

4.5 SUPPORT FOR INTERDISCIPLINARY RESEARCH

As this document has shown, support for interdisciplinarity was a key element of the vision for York
Law School when it was created in 2007. Our development since has reflected that. The
information throughout this document testifies to our conviction that the most creative legal
research will look across disciplinary boundaries, and that new scholars have a vital role to play.
Our successes indicate the value of the structures we have created to support these convictions.
We have increasingly worked towards injecting legal concerns, ideas and methods into multi-
disciplinary responses to grand research challenges: e.g.,

-   Arvind (Prof) and Morgan (SL) on AI (section 3.2.1)
-   Bell (Prof) on environment (section 3.2.1)
-   Cismas (Reader) on armed conflict (3.2.2)
-   Halliday (Prof) on climate change (section 4.1)
-   Jones (SL) on refugees (section 4.4)
-   Tomlinson (SL) on COVID-19 (section 4.4)

At the same time, openness both to other disciplines, and between the different strands of our own
research, has contributed to the excellence of our legal research, across the range of the
discipline.




                                                                                           Page 18
