Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Bangor University (10007857)

 Unit of Assessment: Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research, and impact strategy

 1.1 Structure and Context

 Engineering research at Bangor University is led by the School of Computer Science and
 Electronic Engineering (CSEE), one of three sub-units of the College of Environmental Sciences
 and Engineering. The School was formed in 2017 from the strategic merger of the Schools of
 Computer Science and of Electronic Engineering, thereby increasing the cohesion, critical mass,
 and interdisciplinary opportunities in these areas of historic strength and recent growth. Bangor’s
 Engineering research is focussed around three main themes. Reflecting our intrinsic
 commitment to interdisciplinary working, many of our researchers work across these theme
 boundaries. The three themes are also aligned with local industrial sectors of international
 significance, fostering research translation and relevance.

 1) Photonics and Communications (Chen, Giddings, Hong, Kettle, Nezhad, Ritsos, Shore,
 Spencer, Tang, Wang, Yue)

 This theme has roots in the School’s extended track-record in fundamental research in photonics
 and electromagnetics, specifically nanoscale light sources, integrated photonics, and super-
 resolution imaging, as well as critical applied research areas of optical communications and GPS
 technologies (the latter underpinning one of our impact case studies [REF3_03]). Since
 REF2014 Bangor’s position has strengthened and expanded from device level into new sub-
 systems areas such as nanophotonic MEMS (micro-electro-mechanical systems), micro-
 robotics, and the associated laser materials-processing techniques. Bangor’s microfabrication
 facility underpins much of the group’s research, which has been complemented by the
 installation of new facilities (see Section 3.2) and benefited from access to laboratories at
 Manchester’s National Graphene Institute.

 Research highlights include: 1) Real-time orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing transceiver
 technology capable of 20 Gb/s utilised by Tang and Giddings together with other DSP-based
 techniques for optical communications systems, which are being commercialised via a series of
 awarded grants (GBP7,100,000; funding figures throughout this document reflect award value to
 Bangor unless otherwise stated) with 27 industrial partners including BT, Vodafone, Keysight
 and VPI; 2) Development of an optical ‘Superlens’ by Wang capable of imaging features as
 small as 40 nm using conventional microscopes, interdisciplinary research through collaboration
 with Oxford’s Biological Sciences that received media attention for the use of spider silk in
 nanoscale imaging; 3) Advanced microlaser and nanolaser theoretical and experimental
 research led by Shore and Hong leading to an EPSRC grant (GBP390,000) in collaboration with
 the III-V centre at Sheffield University; and 4) Integrated photonic chip technology for infrared
 applications developed using advanced materials such as nanocrystalline diamond by Nezhad,
 which led to EPSRC funding (GBP680,000) and international patent filing.

 Bangor’s Digital Signal Processing Centre of Excellence (DSP) led by Tang was established
 following a GBP6,000,000 (2019-2023) investment from the European Regional Development
 Fund. The Centre, hosted at Bangor University’s new GBP20,000,000 Menai Science Park (M-
 SParc), focuses on highly specialised research into digital communication systems such as 5G
 networks and ecosystems. Key projects are focused on: real-time algorithm design, optimisation
 and implementation; flexible transceivers and networking devices; optical and wireless
 transmission system convergence; cloud network architecture; software-defined networking; and
 5G testbed establishment and field trials. Expansion of this work is a key part of the UK/Welsh
 Governments’ North Wales Growth Deal, which will see a further GBP3,000,000 invested in the
 centre to accelerate commercialisation.


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Centre for Photonics Excellence (CPE), supported by Welsh Government and EU funds,
 GBP800,000 (2019-2022), is centred around supporting the regionally important photonics
 cluster and is a collaboration with industry partners and other universities to assist with
 translation of new processing techniques and optical coatings used in imaging systems and
 satellites. Wang’s group’s research on both imaging and laser micromachining is aiding the
 development of new imaging systems.

 2) Energy, Environmental- and Bio-Sensing (Chen, Dahlfors, Hancock, Kettle, Lee, Lewis,
 Mabrook, Middleburgh, Neill, Nezhad, Palego, Rushton, Spencer, Wang)

 Bangor’s work in this theme takes a holistic ‘systems’ approach, with a special focus on a range
 of Low Carbon Energy activities including nuclear and marine energy systems and sensor
 technologies relevant to these areas. Bangor’s research in this area is heavily focused on
 enhancing the readiness of new technologies, strengthened through significant academic and
 industrial partnerships (Section 4).

 Highlights include: 1) Development by Lee and colleagues of a suite of molten-Pb testing
 facilities to support Westinghouse Electric and National Nuclear Laboratory research into their
 lead-fast reactor (GBP450,000) as part of the BEIS-funded Advanced Modular Reactor
 competition (Phase 2) and the Nuclear Innovation Programme. The facility will act as a national
 centre for high-temperature lead testing, enabling international collaboration with leading
 organisations (including SCK-CEN, Belgium; ENEA, Italy; Los Alamos National Laboratory,
 USA); 2) Research in Bangor’s School of Ocean Sciences (Neill and Lewis) on the monitoring
 and modelling of new renewable and low carbon energy systems, in particular solar and marine,
 to guide best practice in quantifying energy generation potential. With GBP5,500,000 of grant
 income, Bangor’s simulation and modelling approach has been adopted globally, creating new
 research fields in the understanding of real-life system performance and forming the basis of one
 of our impact case studies (REF3_02); 3) Interdisciplinary sensing research by Palego, using a
 new approach for near-real-time detection of cancer stem cells using ultra-wide broadband
 radiation, as part of the H2020 Future and Emerging Technologies programme (SUMCASTEC;
 GBP682,000 to Bangor, total project GBP3,400,000).

 Bangor’s Nuclear Futures Institute (NFI, launched in 2017 with funding from the Welsh
 Government (WG), EPSRC, and the European Regional Development Fund, GBP6,500,000)
 includes extraordinary facilities that are being used by researchers and leading industry
 stakeholders to aid nuclear technology development. The Institute is led by Lee, a world expert
 in nuclear energy and materials, who was recruited to Bangor in 2016 as part of WG’s
 prestigious Sêr Cymru (Stars of Wales) innovation and science funding scheme. (Sêr Cymru,
 overseen by the Chief Scientific Officer for Wales, attracts to Wales world-leading researchers
 and their groups with the potential for high research impact.) The Institute includes a materials
 manufacture, processing/testing and characterisation facility (funded through NFI and grants
 won from EPSRC and WG) to enable research on radioactive materials, a unique infrastructure
 in Wales. This facility is efficiently coupled with computational analysis capabilities that support
 nuclear energy applications and other low-CO2 technologies. The NFI has established (in 2020)
 a reactor modelling group to build reactor physics and thermal hydraulics capability, in support of
 the UK Government’s intentions, set out through the Nuclear Sector Deal, to site a National
 Thermal Hydraulics Facility in North Wales. Finally, the NFI is developing new areas of speciality
 research including accident-tolerant fuels, nuclear forensics, and advanced nuclear waste-form
 design.

 Bangor’s Smart Efficient Energy Centre (SEEC; European Regional Development Fund,
 GBP4,600,000) led by Neill works across three low carbon energy sectors: ocean energy,
 nuclear energy, and energy efficient structures, interconnected by a common cyberinfrastructure
 hub. The project will lead innovation on how advanced engineering, computer science and
 modelling can be applied most effectively to increase the sustainability of energy supply and
 utilization, while minimizing negative environmental impacts, in particular net carbon emissions.


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3) Visualisation, Data Modelling and Graphics (Ap Cenydd, Kuncheva, Lim, Mansoor,
 Ritsos, Roberts, Teahan, Vidal)

 Bangor’s research in this theme has built on its longstanding strengths in machine learning and
 pattern recognition and has expanded its impacts into Analytics and Virtual Reality (VR).
 Highlights include: 1) New Principal Component Analysis feature extraction techniques
 developed by Kuncheva, supported by the Leverhulme Trust (GBP226,000), which have been
 used by the England Cricket Board to identify predictors of elite performance; 2) Development by
 Ritsos of the first open-standards, web-based Immersive VR Analytics framework to standardise
 the way that data-driven VR experiences are created and deployed on the web; 3) Novel use of
 procedural animation agents and computer graphics by ap Cenydd and Teahan enabling
 commercialisation of ‘Ocean Rift’, one of the leading VR experiences for a plethora of VR
 platforms with over 12,000 downloads, described in impact case study REF3_01.

 This group has considerable interdisciplinary research activity with impacts both locally and
 internationally. Vidal’s work on radiography imaging resulted in the development of an open-
 source software suite that is being adopted in Spain as a tool for formal training for radiography
 health care workers The code is hosted on the Simulation Open Framework Architecture site – a
 prominent library for physics-based medical simulations. The national Supercomputing Wales
 platform provides access to high-performance computing facilities enabling interactions between
 Vidal and Ritsos and the Nuclear Futures Institute around visualisation and high-performance
 computing expertise.


 1.2 Strategic aims for this assessment period

 Research strategy is led by the College and School Research Committees, the latter (previously
 chaired by Kettle and now by Nezhad) consisting of representatives of the three themes,
 together with Spencer in his role as University Pro-Vice Chancellor Research and Innovation.
 Under their direction in this REF period, Engineering research at Bangor University has focused
 on responding to major government strategic drivers, such as the UK’s Industrial Strategy, the
 Welsh Government’s Prosperity for All strategy, and the Higher Education Funding Council for
 Wales’s Research & Innovation Vision for Wales. The merger of Electronic Engineering with
 Computer Science has enabled CSEE to focus on research strengths related to these drivers, in
 order to grow into strategically targeted sectors. This has enabled us to meet Bangor’s
 commitments in our REF2014 returns (to UoAs 11 and 13) through expansion in the fields of
 low-carbon electronics and energy, and in medical imaging technologies. Through the School
 merger and interdisciplinary research opportunities provided by CSEE, we have developed new
 research directions in low carbon energy, digital communications, laser manufacture and
 emerging medical applications that are globally significant in terms of their industrial and societal
 impact.

 This strategic realignment has enabled us to deliver on Bangor’s REF2014 commitment to
 provide the scientific and engineering research capacity required for regional economic growth.
 Bangor has delivered this through our investment to meet the needs of regionally important
 industrial sectors of low carbon energy (NFI, SEEC) and high-value manufacturing (DSP, CPE,
 The Centre for Lifetime and Reliability Testing [CLARET]). We have secured core funding from
 the Welsh Government’s Sêr Cymru Research programme and European Union to deliver our
 strategic aims of developing four new facilities (material fabrication and testing lab, lifetime and
 reliability lab, optical communications/5G lab, and laser micromachining lab) and recruitment of
 new research staff.

 A welcome outcome of Bangor’s intense collaboration with companies has been an increase in
 in-kind company support with staff time, equipment and consumables. While this increased
 engagement with industry has helped project delivery and research output, it has also generated
 employment opportunities for our postgraduate researchers. A good example is Creo Medical


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (AIM listed), who sponsored five PhD students at Bangor, all subsequently recruited upon
 graduating.

 Our strategy has resulted in a significant strengthening of Engineering research at Bangor during
 the current REF period. External research grant expenditure has risen by over 140% per
 annum per FTE relative to Bangor’s REF2014 combined returns to UoA11 and UoA13 (the two
 previous units now returned together to UoA12 in REF2021), as a result of increased capture of
 funding from UKRI and EU sources, and increasingly fruitful partnerships with new and
 emergent companies. Research doctoral degrees awarded have grown by over 80% per
 annum per FTE compared with Bangor’s REF2014 returns, with continued growth expected as
 a result of Bangor’s membership of three doctoral training networks and other similar
 programmes that are highlighted in Section 2.


 1.3 Achievement of impact arising from research

 In this REF period, Bangor’s Engineering researchers have been intensely focused on
 conducting research that generates impacts of reach and significance. This agenda has been
 facilitated since the formation of CSEE by the development of a new impact strategy, led by an
 academic Impact Director (Roberts) who is further supported in this mission by research support
 staff. We have achieved our impact goals via national and international engagement with
 industry, academic, and government partners, supported by external funds and building on
 Bangor’s physical facilities.

 Industry engagement is illustrated by links from our Centres and Institutes to the spectrum of
 partners from international conglomerates, to regional SMEs and micro-businesses. For
 example, the DSP Centre has worked with both multinationals (e.g., BT, Effect Photonics and
 Vodafone) and SMEs at the centre of the nationwide 5G roll-out. Facilitation by the Welsh
 Optoelectronics Forum enabled Bangor researchers in the pan-Wales Centre for Photonics
 Expertise to provide supported access to our state-of-the art facilities for industry partners. The
 establishment of the Nuclear Futures Institute has enabled extensive links to industry
 (Westinghouse, Tokamak Energy, Jacobs etc.) and government (e.g. UK Atomic Energy
 Authority, National Nuclear Laboratory, Atomic Weapons Establishment and BEIS) partners, and
 its facilities for on-site uranium testing have provided a framework for industry/academic
 collaborations that has attracted >GBP1,000,000 of external funding since 2019. CLARET
 (2014-2019) executed industrially funded research projects on failure analysis/predictive ageing
 with the photonics and electronics sectors. For example, CLARET supported the anchor tenant
 (IQE plc) of the internationally important compound semiconductor cluster in South Wales with
 characterisation and analysis of both wafers and devices (Spencer, Kettle).

 Our impact-focused collaborations with industrial and academic partners have attracted
 significant external funding support. For example, applied research funding has been secured
 from UK national programmes such as UKRI/InnovateUK via Knowledge Transfer Partnership
 grants (Taylor, Kettle), the Royal Society (Kettle), the RAEng (Kettle), and the Welsh
 Government’s ‘Smart Expertise’ scheme enabling knowledge transfer to major local companies
 including Qioptiq and IQE (Yue, Kettle). Exploitation funding from UKRI includes the EPSRC
 Manufacturing the Future seed grant awarded to Nezhad (with Cardiff and Southampton
 University partners) for developing infrared photonic chips using industrially-grown diamond.
 Vidal, Ritsos and Roberts are co-investigators on an Oxford-led project that answered a call in
 May 2020 for visualisation experts to support modelling scientists and epidemiologists in the
 Scottish COVID-19 Response Consortium (SCRC), and was one of three consortia in the Royal
 Society’s Rapid Assistance in Modelling the Pandemic initiative. The Nuclear Futures Institute
 has been awarded funding to enable industry/academic collaboration that addresses identified
 industrial needs: THOR (Thermal Hydraulics Open Access Research facility, GBP338,000,
 Dahlfors), a thermal analysis materials laboratory (GBP110,000, Middleburgh) and a strategic
 partner accelerator grant with Los Alamos National Laboratory (GBP60,000, Rushton).


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Key tangible indicators of Bangor’s success at generating impact from our research are the
 development of patents, licensing, knowledge exchange, and spinouts. A number of patent
 portfolios are being developed around: ‘Super-lens’ imaging (Wang); microwave-based cosmetic
 and skin cancer treatments (Hancock); a radiotherapy software suite (Vidal); a flexible photonic
 MEMS platform (Nezhad); a miniature RF tracking system that can be fitted to flying insects
 (Palego’s interdisciplinary collaboration with colleagues in UoA7); and a suite of patents with
 Westinghouse Electric (Sweden/USA) and Tokamak Energy (UK) related to nuclear materials
 and component inventions (Middleburgh). Licensing of antimicrobial films to Biolase Ltd/UPS2
 Ltd has also been agreed (Kettle).

 The appointment of Hancock, the CTO and founder of Creo Medical plc, to a Chair at Bangor
 University has helped the company grow from a micro-SME in Bath (2003) to an AIM-listed plc
 (2018) with a listing of GBP330,000,000 and a manufacturing base, part-funded by Finance
 Wales. A recently awarded Royal Academy of Engineering Visiting Chair appointment will see a
 further strengthening of the relationship, with the former CEO of Creo Medical joining Bangor in
 2021. Two spinout companies, Laser Micromachining Ltd (the subject of a Bangor REF2014
 Impact Case Study) and IDB Systems Ltd (established 2014), continue to flourish and have
 increased staff headcount by 50% in this REF period.

 The preceding examples illustrate how Bangor’s strategy for collaboration with industry,
 academic and government partners has borne fruit with demonstrable impact on both start-ups
 and multi-national companies. The potential for further acceleration of regional impact from
 Bangor’s engineering research was highlighted in two BEIS Science and Innovation Audits, the
 North West Nuclear Arc and the North West Coastal Arc Partnership for Clean and Sustainable
 Growth. This will be delivered through the North Wales Growth Deal (GBP27,000,000 for all
 three Bangor University projects, led by Spencer) targeted at delivering benefits from research
 to local industry and attracting inward investment to the region.


 1.4 Progress toward an open research environment

 Since 2014, Bangor has supported an online open-access platform for publications, datasets
 and software. Data curation and storage processes are in place to ensure compliance with both
 funder and legal requirements. Policies and procedures are overseen by the University’s Digital
 Strategy group and the central compliance unit, supported by external audits initiated by the
 University and research funders. Open access funds were made available to authors to enable
 compliance and dissemination of outputs.

 Bangor researchers have used European Regional Development Funds (GBP1,500,000) to
 create an open-research resource, the iMarDis system, a data portal that streamlines access to
 our marine and oceanographic data and models for our research collaborators and end-user
 partners in the commercial and private sectors; it is a core component of Bangor’s Smart
 Efficient Energy Centre. This system was established as a solution to the unmet industrial
 demand for data; currently 70% of the registered users are government agencies or industry.


 1.5 Support for a culture of research integrity

 Bangor’s research governance and integrity policies and procedures adhere to Universities UK’s
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity (2012; revised 2019). The College ethics committee,
 comprising representatives from across disciplines and career stages, takes responsibility for
 ensuring that ethical issues raised by our research are properly understood, considered and
 addressed. The committee provides training on research integrity and research ethics for new
 staff, and organises research ethics seminars where current issues are shared and discussed.
 More granular decisions regarding research ethics and integrity are presented and resolved in
 the School’s Research Committee.


                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Some of the work undertaken by the Nuclear Futures Institute requires notification to the UK’s
 Office for Nuclear Regulation, a process that is overseen by the University Radiation Health and
 Safety sub-committee, with operational oversight undertaken at School level. Some Nuclear
 Futures Institute staff also have high-level security clearance, but no sensitive nuclear data is
 held at Bangor. Some of the interdisciplinary work undertaken with colleagues in biological and
 marine sciences requires research governance oversight to ensure compliance with the
 necessary legislation and ethical issues. This is addressed via the College Health and Safety
 and Ethics Committees and the University level equivalents, which in turn report to University
 Executive and Council.

 The University has policies and procedures in place that address wider research governance
 and integrity issues with clear reporting processes for ‘whistle-blowers’ and misconduct
 concerns. Induction training and awareness raising seminars are run by Bangor’s Human
 Resources Department and Governance Office.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 Bangor University develops, supports and rewards the research excellence of all research staff.
 Continuing the successful strategy employed in REF2014, we have: appointed and promoted
 academic staff with high potential to deliver excellence in research or who already are research
 leaders; focused appointments where they can grow capacity in the School’s priority research
 areas; and encouraged research-led incoming and outgoing secondments with world-leading
 universities and major national/international companies. We have rewarded excellence through
 promotion: in this REF period, five staff members to Professor/Reader and another five to Senior
 Lecturer, including four who were early career researchers submitted to REF2014.

 We place special emphasis on providing early career researchers with a mature but flexible
 structure to flourish within. In this REF period, we have recruited promising early career
 researcher (ECR) staff (Dalhfors, Lewis, Middleburgh, Rushton, Yue) who we are developing
 into research leaders through mentoring by senior, established academic staff (further supported
 by Bangor University’s academic mentoring scheme). For example, during this REF period,
 Dahlfors, Lewis, Middleburgh and Rushton have all succeeded in capturing substantial external
 grant funding. Former ECRs have been inducted into positions of responsibility, supporting
 succession planning and sustainability of Engineering at Bangor (e.g., Nezhad to School
 Director of Research and Ritsos to Director of External Engagement). Of those staff submitted
 as ECRs to REF2014, 75% have captured at least one major research grant >GBP350,000 in
 this REF period.

 Funding applications are reviewed by the School and College Research Committees or other
 experienced staff mentors, with particular attention paid to those aimed at UKRI, and those
 prepared by ECRs. The same colleagues also offer support in responding to grant application
 reviews and comments. The Research Committees coordinate Bangor’s response to cross-
 disciplinary opportunities. Practice and feedback are provided for interviews: for example,
 Nezhad’s successful EPSRC Innovation Fellowship (GBP630,000) was supported by a mock
 panel of colleagues from CSEE and other Bangor Schools. The University’s research office also
 provides central support for research contracts (UK and international), knowledge-transfer, and
 IP support.

 The University’s workload allocation model balances research, teaching and administration, with
 significant research commitments matched by reduced teaching and administration. New staff
 are allocated reduced teaching loads during their first three years to allow them to establish their
 research programmes. Staff participate in the annual Performance Development Review
 process, providing an opportunity to discuss expectations, training needs and career
 development.


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Bangor supports its engineering researchers by providing ‘pump-priming’ funding, on the
 condition that this results in research grant submissions, for: laboratory provision, small items of
 equipment/consumables, attendance at conferences and visiting academic/industrial partners,
 and support for patenting and providing open-access to research outputs.


 2.2. Commitment to equality and diversity

 We value the talents and skills of all staff and seek to ensure our working environment, and
 opportunities for career progression, are fully inclusive. Bangor University’s commitment to
 gender equality is captured by our institutional Athena Swan Bronze Award, initially won in
 2011, renewed in 2014 and in 2018 (valid until 2023). Bangor is also recognised for its support
 of women in the traditionally male-dominated field of Engineering by CSEE being awarded a
 Bronze Athena SWAN Award in 2020, which includes a 4-year action plan to promote change
 that feeds into School and University strategy. Delivery of the plan is the responsibility of the
 Head of School, supported by a task and end group. Opportunities are made open to all by
 transparent processes for recruitment, promotion, appointment to school positions, and
 allocation of duties. We strive to improve gender balance through enhancing recruitment and
 promotion processes. CSEE invests significant staff time in an extensive schools’ outreach
 programme (Technocamps) that seeks to raise awareness and address diversity issues by
 highlighting STEM careers to school children, their parents and other influencers.

 Our colleagues are active in Bangor’s LGBTQ Network and support is provided to meet the
 needs identified by the Equality and Diversity self-assessment teams. Measures such as the
 scheduling of meetings and seminars in core business hours to assist those with caring
 responsibilities, and the provision of funding for staff, PDRA and PGR development needs
 (including conference attendance) have been in place throughout the REF period. The Head of
 School has overall responsibility for ensuring all Equality and Diversity policies and procedures
 are followed, and is aided by the support of a designated contact in Human Resources.


 2.3 Post-doctoral progression – Research Associates

 All postdoctoral researchers and fellows are offered training in research, teaching (PGCertHE),
 career management, personnel management, and research ethics. This is in addition to the
 technical training and mentoring such researchers receive in the laboratory setting as part of
 their research projects. Opportunities to assist in teaching activities (e.g., guest lecturing) are
 offered regularly. Our postdoctoral alumni have gone into academic and industrial positions,
 such as Senior Researcher at ADVA Optical Networking, Senior Project manager at Huawei
 Research (Munich), Senior Process engineer at Smartkem, Multiphysics Engineer at Effect
 Photonics (Netherlands), and Senior Lecturer at the University of Lincoln. Several former
 Bangor postdocs have joined CSEE as permanent staff via open competition (Ritsos, Hong and
 Vidal).


 2.4 Post-Graduate Research students (PGRs)

 The number of doctoral degrees awarded in Engineering at Bangor has risen by over 80% on a
 per FTE per annum basis in this REF period, compared to Bangor’s REF2014 combined returns
 to UoA11 and UoA13. A major factor in this success is that, since 2014, Bangor has won funding
 for three prestigious UKRI doctoral training networks: (1) the EPSRC Centre for Doctoral
 Training in Nuclear Energy Futures (in partnership with Imperial College, University of
 Cambridge, and Open University) established in 2019; (2) the UKRI Centre for Doctoral Training
 in Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning & Advanced Computing (with Swansea, Bristol,
 Cardiff and Aberystwyth Universities) also established in 2019; (3) the NERC Envision Doctoral
 Training Programme (with Lancaster and Nottingham Universities), which was recently renewed.
 Further PhD studentships have been awarded by the Fujitsu High Performance Computing

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wales project associated with Supercomputing Wales; EPSRC CASE partnerships (e.g. with
 Merck) and international government scholarships. The CDTs and DTP provide high quality
 programmes of structured training for each student cohort across the partner institutions, based
 on their excellence in engineering and related sciences.

 The Sêr Cymru National Research Network in Advanced Engineering and Materials (2012-
 2018), a major GBP7,000,000 Welsh-Government funded initiative, has seen Bangor secure
 GBP1,800,000 via competitive externally reviewed process, which has provided an important
 source of PGR funding for ECR staff with 6 studentships awarded. The network was key to
 collaboration with major engineering centres across Wales, including the Institute of Energy and
 the Compound Semiconductor Centre at Cardiff University, Solar Research and Active Buildings
 and the Centre for Nanohealth at Swansea University, and The Welding Institute (TWI), enabling
 PGR access to specialist equipment not readily available in Bangor. The DSP Centre of
 Excellence has recruited 8 PGRs during the REF period. Finally, a large cohort of PGRs (16
 PhD, 3 MRes) has been recruited to Engineering at Bangor through the Knowledge Economy
 Skills Scholarships (KESS) scheme. This pan-Wales initiative, led by Bangor, is supported by
 European Social Funds (2015-2023, GBP56,000,000) to link industrial partners with Welsh
 universities for collaborative PhD or Research Master’s projects.

 PhD progress is monitored by the University’s Doctoral School, which also provides training and
 social activities. All PhD students have a supervisory committee and a personal tutor. The
 Doctoral School, as well as CSEE, have mechanisms in place to support students having health
 or wellbeing issues. PGRs are embedded in areas of research strength via the three research
 themes and associated centres that create supportive cohorts, and are provided with
 transferrable skills training by the Bangor Doctoral School (e.g. in research management,
 presentation skills, writing, and interview skills). The College organises a weekly seminar series
 and three post-graduate research conferences per year. At the latter our PGRs present a poster
 (2nd year) or talk (3rd year) to a wide cohort of fellow PGRs and staff, allowing them to develop
 their presentation skills and multidisciplinary contacts.

 We place great emphasis on PGR students visiting partner institutions, enabling them to gain
 skills and promote their research, and to initiate collaborations and information exchange that
 will last beyond their projects. In 2019, Middleburgh and Rushton, 2 PGRs and a PDRA
 travelled to Sweden to work with KTH University and Westinghouse Electric (funding through the
 Supporting Collaborative Research and innovation in Europe - Wales scheme). Palego and
 Kettle have enabled students to visit MIT and Harvard as part of their PhD studies using funding
 from the University’s Wynn Humphrey Fund, supported by the Drapers Livery Company. Other
 internal funding schemes (e.g. Santander travel bursaries) have enabled PGRs to visit Ben
 Gurion University (Israel), MCAST (Malta), URJC (Spain), Analog Devices (Ireland) and NUT
 (Taiwan). Rushton acquired a GBP60,000 Sêr Cymru Partnership Accelerator Award for
 Nuclear Futures Institute PGRs to spend extended periods at Los Alamos National Laboratory
 (USA). Long-term visits have enabled PGRs to perform Small- and Wide-angle X-ray Scattering
 measurements at the National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center (Taiwan) and at
 Brookhaven National Laboratory (USA).


 2.5 Incoming and external appointments

 Visiting and Honorary appointments closely link each theme to key academic and user
 communities, thus promoting the delivery of research impact. Examples include: the Chief
 Scientist at the National Nuclear Laboratory, who works closely with Bangor’s Nuclear Futures
 Institute on structural integrity in nuclear technologies, and the Chair of the Snowdonia
 Enterprise Zone, who links us to community programmes, researchers and engineers. Amongst
 local industrial leaders, the CEO of Comtek, Askar Sheibani (Honorary Entrepreneurial Fellow),
 who chairs the industrial panel of the North Wales Economic Ambition Board, has become a
 close collaborator with Bangor via the DSP centre. Professor Terry Hewitt (EDS/Hewlett
 Packard) works with researchers in our Visualization, Data, Modelling and Graphics theme to

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support the high-performance computing provision in the University and secure funding for the
 Supercomputing Wales project.

 Outgoing appointments are encouraged to secure additional funding sources or significantly
 enhance the quality of research outputs. Examples include: Palego, Adjunct Professor, Lehigh
 University, USA; Kettle, Institute of Catalan Nanotechnology, Barcelona; Nezhad, National
 Graphene Institute, University of Manchester. Rushton was seconded to Los Alamos National
 Laboratory, USA for 5 weeks to build a collaboration for modelling radiation damage in sensing
 materials, which led to a GBP60,000 Sêr Cymru Partnership Accelerator Award.

 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities

 3.1 Research funding portfolio and future plans

 Total external research grant expenditure for Bangor Engineering over the REF2021 period was
 more than GBP16,000,000. Of this, over GBP2,250,000 was from UKRI or equivalent status
 funders, equating to an increase of 58% on a per annum per FTE basis over Bangor’s REF2014
 combined returns to UoA11 and UoA13.

 Bangor was a partner in the pan-Wales GBP7,000,000 Sêr Cymru National Research Network in
 Advanced Engineering and Materials (NRN-AEM; Welsh Government, 2012-2018) securing
 GBP1,800,000 for Bangor projects. Bangor led the NRN in Low Carbon, Energy and
 Environment (NRN-LCEE; Welsh Government, with a total budget of GBP7,000,000, 2012-
 2019). The success of Bangor’s roles in these networks paved the way for the Welsh
 Government’s funding to establish the Nuclear Futures Institute. The NRN’s promote
 collaborative and interdisciplinary research within Wales, providing seed funding to Bangor ECR
 staff, and enabling impact from our research collaborations with science end-users by involving
 them from the outset of project planning. Examples include Nezhad’s collaborations via NRN-
 AEM with Cardiff University, leading to his UKRI Innovation Fellowship award on ‘Optically
 Actuated Microrobots’ (GBP630,000), which aims to realise sub-millimetre, light-powered robotic
 structures. The research of Shore and Hong, who continued theoretical and experimental work
 on nanolasers, and which was subsequently supported by EPSRC (Ultrastable High-
 Performance Nanolasers, GBP390,000) was in part aimed at producing light sources for
 applications such as Nezhad’s Microrobots.

 Neill led the NRN-LCEE cluster ‘Quantification, Optimisation, and Environmental Impacts of
 Marine Renewable Energy’ (GBP400,000), which led to an EPSRC project grant on tidal energy
 (GPB1,389,372) and the EPSRC Fellowship to Lewis (2019; GBP287,382). Rushton leveraged
 Sêr Cymru funding to win the EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Nuclear Energy Futures
 (2019-2028).

 Support from the Welsh Government directly facilitated funding from the European Regional
 Development Fund, which has supported the establishment of Bangor’s DSP Centre, Smart
 Efficient Energy Centre (SEEC), and Centre for Photonics Expertise (all 2019-22; total
 GBP11,400,000). These centres have allowed us to expand our cutting-edge research into
 industrially relevant areas and enable us to link our science directly to end-user industry
 partners. Importantly, they were often used to leverage UKRI and European grants; examples
 include Kettle’s DEPICT project funded by InnovateUK (GBP498,000, 2018-2019, led by IQE
 plc).

 Looking ahead, we recognise the need to adapt and diversify to remain resilient in the changing
 funding landscape. Our aim is to grow our areas of research excellence and prioritize activity
 that has the potential for transformative societal and economic impact of international
 significance. This approach aligns us with the policy and funding mechanisms of the Welsh and
 UK Governments, and positions us to benefit from the ‘Levelling-up’ agenda. Structural changes
 that are needed to enable this ambition are already either in place or at an advanced stage of
 planning. The formation of the new College of Environment Sciences and Engineering sought to

                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 increase interdisciplinary working, already leading to fruitful collaborations such as SEEC, the
 insect-tracking work of Palego, and the bio-inspired work of Wang. Support for a further step-
 change increase in interdisciplinary working will be driven by Bangor’s new ten-year research
 strategy, supported by transformative improvements in the physical estate and overseen via the
 annual strategic planning round.

 European Investment Bank and North Wales Growth Deal funding will be used to co-locate
 Engineering and Computer Science within a refurbished Science campus, along with the
 majority of the rest of the College. Expansion of Bangor’s DSP Centre has been initiated; formal
 recognition as a 5G Centre of Excellence by the UK Government’s Department for Digital,
 Culture, Media and Sport is being sought with the support of Welsh Government. The DSP
 Centre will also work with colleagues in the Compound Semiconductor Centre in South Wales to
 develop sub-systems to help meet the UK requirement for locally sourced telecoms equipment.
 This movement up the supply chain from III-V wafer to devices and now on to sub-systems will
 be aided by the planned expansion of our cleanroom facilities. Investments in state-of the-art
 nanofabrication capabilities will enable us to assist the development of SMEs in the electronics,
 photonics and bioengineering domains.

 We also seek to capitalise on the materials science expertise of the Nuclear Future Institute by
 growing the analytic facilities at Bangor through a centralised Materials Analysis Laboratory that
 will be catalytic for other research groups and accessible to local businesses. NFI also seeks to
 become an integral partner in the UK’s medical isotope research network. In particular, with
 support from Welsh and UK Governments, there is the potential for a Medical Isotopes Research
 Reactor to be sited on the local decommissioned nuclear site at Trawsfynydd.

 Via collaboration with key stakeholders, such as the Welsh Government and the Betsi
 Cadwaladr University Health Board, the University aims to expand its current medical and
 clinical training to a full North Wales Health and Medical School. The School’s interdisciplinary
 research would incorporate existing Bangor expertise in medical devices (Hancock, Palego,
 Chen), virtual training (Vidal, Panos) and emerging excellence in digital systems that support
 health care provision in geographically dispersed communities (Tang, Giddings). The
 appointment of at least 4 new Early Career Researchers through the Sêr Cymru scheme, in
 emerging multidisciplinary theme areas such as Control and Instrumentation; Medical Isotopes
 and Nuclear Medicine; Nuclear Co-Generation; and Functional Sensor Materials has already
 commenced.

 We recognise the need for an agile approach to research planning that ensures alignment with
 emerging opportunities and mitigates risks. Research partnerships with a carefully selected set
 of institutions offer an important risk-mitigation strategy and will be an essential consortium-
 building tool needed to address the ‘Levelling-up’ agenda: MoUs have been signed with key
 stakeholders both within the UK and overseas (Section 3.3). Regular information sessions are
 held at various levels with relevant civil servants, politicians, funding agencies and industrial
 trade bodies, such as the CBI and the Federation of Small Businesses, to raise awareness of
 research projects that have the potential for mutually significant translational impact. Increased
 research through these partnerships requires access to a highly skilled researcher base in North
 Wales and we are putting in place pathways to attract, develop and retain high quality
 researchers, particularly ECRs. Increased research translation and company interaction will be
 sought by increasing professional doctorates, especially where there are important regional
 opportunities in sectors seeking to move to a zero carbon footprint (Aerospace, Automotive,
 Energy and Photonics).


 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 Bangor University has substantially invested in Engineering research infrastructure over the
 REF2021 period across our three research themes areas, to a total of GBP3,860,000 on
 laboratories and equipment, as described below.

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Within the Energy, Environmental-, and Bio-sensing theme, marine energy and ocean
 engineering are of particular local significance, given the proximity of tidal energy sites around
 Anglesey, including the West Anglesey Tidal Demonstration Zone. The University’s shelf sea 35-
 m research vessel, the RV Prince Madog, provides infrastructure for ocean energy research,
 supported by a team of electronics technicians and a range of instrumentation. This vessel is
 capable of hosting 10 scientists continuously at sea for up to 10 days, which facilitates
 collaboration with numerous UK research institutions and government partners. During this REF
 period the Prince Madog was equipped with a new multibeam seabed mapping system
 (GBP250,000) enhancing both mapping resolution and spatial scale. This makes Bangor one of
 the best-equipped UK universities for offshore energy resource assessment and
 characterization. These facilities are complemented by the iMarDis system, a data portal that
 streamlines our data acquisition and storage, and three Coastal Observatories (GBP450,000)
 that house 18 different oceanographic sensors and feed real-time data to iMarDis, providing
 some of the highest temporal resolution data available for marine energy research and
 increasing the spatial scale we can cover during surveys. Bangor’s investment in the Prince
 Madog has led to grants of GBP1,200,000 (2014-20) for ocean renewable energy surveys,
 which link closely with our data modelling research.

 Other investments in the Energy and Environment theme include the Nuclear Futures Institute’s
 4 new purpose-built laboratories (GBP700,000), which include active materials manufacture
 and characterisation laboratories with a new scanning electron microscope, Raman and X-ray
 diffraction. Sub-kilogram scales of uranium can be handled for fuel development investigations.
 These facilities support industrial projects and enable further inward funding (e.g. through the
 Sêr Cymru II infrastructure accelerator grant (GBP110,000) for thermal analysis equipment and
 a number of research projects totalling >GBP1,000,000). The Welsh Government recently
 funded the Thermal Hydraulics Open-access Research facility (GBP350,000) to provide initial
 research and develop the skills base for the GBP60,000,000 National Thermal Hydraulics
 Facility planned to be located in North Wales, a critical capability to support next-generation
 nuclear energy, as highlighted in the UK Government’s Nuclear Industry Sector Deal. These will
 provide sustainable research projects for new nuclear reactor designs and propel the University
 to a world-leading position in this field.

 Additionally, Bangor’s reliability testing facilities were expanded via the Academic Expertise
 for Business (A4B) CLARET project (GBP500,000) enabling highly accelerated life testing/stress
 screening, thermal humidity and thermal cycle testing. Further enhancement of the facilities has
 been achieved through individual grants: UKRI KTP funding has been used to install new
 electrical test equipment for reliability; SPARC II, a European-funded collaboration with Swansea
 and Aberystwyth Universities (2017-2023), has enabled new accelerated UV-testing stability
 chambers to be commissioned; and private funding from Landis+Gyr has been used to install a
 new salt-spray fog environmental chamber. This set of energy-related facilities has been
 designed to meet the need for integration of research, innovation and industrially-funded work in
 the energy sector. It now acts as a hub and infrastructure centre for numerous interdisciplinary
 projects across the College.

 The consistent growth of the Photonics and Communications theme over the REF period has
 been enabled by strategic investments in staff and infrastructure, resulting in further grant
 capture and expansion of our research facilities. The DSP Centre alone has commissioned high-
 speed waveform generators, oscilloscope, optical spectrum analyser and vector network
 analyser (GBP1,500,000). Expanded surface metrology equipment, including a laser confocal
 microscope, was funded by Welsh Government. Our laser processing facilities have been
 greatly expanded by Wang and Chen, with six new laser processing systems giving a total of
 eight spanning a wide range of wavelength (355 nm – 10.6 um) and temporal ranges
 (femtosecond – CW), including nanosecond lasers (GuoKe 355nm UV, 1064 nm fiber laser),
 femtosecond laser (Tropical, Spectra Physics) and CO2 laser systems (Trotec Rayjet, Speedy
 300W, 400W, 500W). Nezhad’s EPSRC Fellowship has provided state-of-the-art photonic chip


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 testing, including high resolution L+C band spectral sweeping and an integrated nanomechanical
 testing capability.

 Bangor opened the GBP20,000,000 Menai Science Parc in 2018 with major investments from
 Welsh Government and EU sources. M-SParc is focused on exploiting and commercialising
 Bangor’s research to realise benefits for the local economy, with a focus on low-carbon energy
 and digital sectors. It is sited within Anglesey’s Low Carbon Energy Enterprise Zone. M-SParc
 now houses the DSP Centre’s commercial exploitation work and the THOR experimental facility
 of the Nuclear Futures Institute.


 3.3 Collaborative use of research infrastructure

 Engineering at Bangor follows a culture of equipment and infrastructure sharing, both internally
 and also with external users and facilities. As a result, cross-collaborations are common and
 follow both themes/centres, and organic collaborations between individual PIs. The CSEE
 Research Committee has an ethos of facilitating Bangor’s Engineering researchers. It plans
 research directions, infrastructure needs, and collaborations, deciding on priorities and providing
 guidance. Specific investment proposals are considered and decided based on expert
 consensus among staff stakeholders. This co-ordinated approach has already enabled a
 significant shift towards both industry collaboration and successful UKRI funding.

 Collaboration with strategic partner research groups and industry has been set up through
 formal memoranda of understanding and research agreements with, for example, Imperial
 College, University of New Brunswick (Canada), Nuclear Advanced Manufacturing Research
 Centre, the UK National Nuclear Laboratory, Siemens (Germany), Thales (France), Hitachi-GE
 (Japan), Westinghouse Electric Company (USA, Sweden and the UK). The longer-term impact
 of these partnerships is to support the development of high-value supply chain clusters in the
 North Wales region’s key export sectors (aerospace, automotive, photonics and renewable
 energy) and emerging new sectors (next generation nuclear, environment, 5G, medical devices
 and microrobotics), providing high value jobs and sustainability to the region.

 In addition to informal collaboration arrangements between PIs and research centres for sharing
 laboratory setups and test equipment, CSEE also operates several large infrastructure items that
 operate on a shared infrastructure basis (e.g., the microfabrication cleanroom and the laser
 processing lab). These are open to both School staff and external users (fee-based for the
 latter). Access to the cleanroom is governed by a dedicated equipment reservation calendar and
 a robust training and qualification process is in place for rapid induction of users. The success of
 these policies has led to them being adopted widely across the University (for example in NFI’s
 new materials characterisation facility). Direct access or secondments of external staff to
 undertake research in our cleanroom, material, reliability and device characterisation labs has
 generated external income of nearly GBP200,000 since 2014.

 Our researchers also make use of major external facilities. Nezhad has been a visiting
 researcher at the National Graphene Institute (University of Manchester) since 2017, enabling
 use of cleanroom infrastructure and equipment, and sharing of technical knowledge with the
 Institute team. Other examples include the Nuclear Future Institute’s access to the National
 Nuclear Users Facilities (including the Dalton Nuclear Institute’s Cumbria [irradiation] Facility and
 UK Atomic Energy Authority Materials Research Facility at Culham), Vidal’s use of the Diamond
 Light Source synchrotron and Roberts’ role as Bangor’s lead in Supercomputing Wales.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations and interdisciplinary research

 Bangor University has a long track record of national and international collaborations in
 engineering. Internal support is provided to enhance success with international grant

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 applications such as the Newton fund, which has led to collaborative projects with University
 Londrina (Brazil), Vietnam Academy of Science and Technology, and University of Sao Paulo
 (Brazil). Other significant interdisciplinary and/or international grants include those from EU
 sources such as the H2020 “Future and Emerging Technologies” projects: SUMCASTEC (led by
 Limoges and Bangor Universities (Palego)), SteelPV (Kettle) and Marie Curie networks (Chen).
 The SUMCASTEC collaboration of engineers and biologists has resulted in novel bio-electric
 experimental techniques for studying cancerous brain cells. EPSRC seed funding and NRN-
 AEM grants have enabled new collaborations on silicon and diamond integrated photonics
 between Nezhad and Cardiff and Southampton Universities.

 Interdisciplinarity is a defining feature of our research that has been significantly facilitated by the
 establishment of CSEE during this REF period. Outputs submitted to REF2021 include 52
 publications (81% of total) co-authored with collaborators from other institutions, including UK
 and international research leaders in physics, ocean science, bio- and environmental sciences,
 chemistry, economics, mathematics and medicine. Exemplars include published work on
 microwave medical equipment (Hancock/Palego) co-authored with two consultant
 gastroenterologists. Two PhD students have been funded by KESS2 to research bee telemetry,
 with co-supervision between UoA12 engineering (Palego) and UoA7 environmental science
 staff, and close collaboration with Agritech industry to develop technology for monitoring
 pollinators. Other funded interdisciplinary collaborations have been with environmental and
 Agritech researchers in the Institute of Biological, Environmental and Rural Sciences at
 Aberystwyth University to develop low-cost and printed methane sensors for monitoring
 greenhouse gas emissions (Kettle).


 4.2 Industrial collaborators

 A range of projects have been supported by industrial collaborators. Industry-facing centres
 have been established as part of the CLARET project led by Kettle through industrially-funded
 projects on reliability engineering with around 15 companies, which generated significant repeat
 business, leading to KTP projects and InnovateUK funding. The DSP Centre’s 27 industrial
 partners provide in-kind support. Additional work by Kettle includes expert advice to Walker
 Morris LLB for quality investigation of electronic products. Other technology transfer saw
 GBP285,000 secured by via two KTP projects with Smartkem, and direct cash contributions to
 undertake collaborative research, and a further successful KTP with PolarOLED. In the
 renewable energy sector, the research of Neill and Lewis has supported research projects with
 industrial partners Minesto, Morlais, Nova Innovation, SIMEC Atlantis, Nortek, Deltares, and
 SBS International Ltd, and The Met Office. Middleburgh has an ongoing industrial collaboration
 with Westinghouse Electric including membership of the GBP10,000,000 consortium (funded by
 BEIS) to work on their lead-cooled advanced modular reactor (GBP300,000 supporting Bangor
 University). The Virtual Reality research of Ap Cenydd informs an ongoing collaboration since
 2013 with a range of international companies, such as Facebook/Samsung/Xiaomi. Industrial
 projects have also been a useful funding source for many of our PhD students. The EPSRC
 CDT in Nuclear Energy Futures is supported by most major nuclear companies in the UK who
 provide GBP5,200,000 of in-kind support to the whole network. The KESS II PhD programme
 has supported 15 industrial-focused PhD students, including with Westinghouse,
 AstralDynamics and Qioptiq.

 In addition to direct research collaboration with individual companies, Bangor staff also sit on
 advisory boards. For example, Lee serves on the Technical Advisory Board for several
 companies: the National Nuclear Laboratory, the Royal United Services Institute, Morgan
 Advanced Materials plc, Tokamak Energy plc and RHI-Magnesita plc. Rushton sits on the
 Nuclear Academic and Industry Liaison Sub-committee of the Nuclear Institute, which provides a
 key interface between academia and the nuclear industry. Kettle was the Vice-chair in the
 COST Action Performance and Reliability of Photovoltaic Systems, involving 37 countries, with
 the aim of improving the energy performance and reliability of photovoltaic (PV) solar energy
 systems in Europe.

                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 4.3 Contribution to society

 We disseminate our engineering research in a tailored way appropriate to the intended audience
 and objective. Our secondary schools and FE outreach has sought to highlight the opportunities
 of a STEM career in a way that addresses diversity issues and raises aspiration of pupils by
 using role models that they can relate to. In Bangor’s North Wales context, that means being
 sensitive to the bilingual nature of the local community. Bangor’s role in the Wales-wide
 Technocamps project (supported by EU and Welsh Government funds of GBP1,100,000) has
 led to children from over 100 local schools being introduced to coding, robotics and control
 electronic research, utilizing relevant research from our Visualisation theme. CSEE is also
 home to the ‘Photonics Academy for Wales @Bangor’, which enables photonics research
 projects to be undertaken by high school students. Both of these programmes have also sought
 to inform and educate parents and other influencers who have a significant impact on children in
 their formative years. Capacity for societal outreach from our research is greatly enhanced by
 Bangor University’s GBP51,000,000 Pontio Arts and Innovation Centre, which opened in 2015
 and includes a business development hub with an MIT-accredited ‘Fab-lab’ that provides a
 venue for local users to develop and exploit innovative ideas at different scales. Science
 discovery sessions are incorporated into Pontio’s Arts programme, and CSEE hosted an ‘Artist
 in Residence’. Bangor’s engineers also worked with the theatre group Acrojou on a production
 exploring chaotic dynamics.

 We have also extensively used more familiar methods of dissemination, including presentations
 at major national/international events and coverage in national media. Shore led events in
 Wales for the 2015 UN International Year of Light and was Chair, Science and Technology
 Committee, National Eisteddfod of Wales 2017, which attracted 25,000 visitors to the Science
 and Technology Pavilion. ap Cenydd organised an underwater VR exhibit at the American
 Museum of Natural History, New York (2017) and exhibited at National Eisteddfod (2017), M-
 SParc (2018), local schools (2016-Present), the Bangor Science Festival (2014-2018), and the
 House of Commons (2019). Kettle, ap Cenydd, Wang, Palego, Lee, Rushton and
 Middleburgh have been interviewed on BBC Wales and Roberts on ITV to communicate and
 promote their research. Our staff are encouraged to publicise their research using the
 University’s press office and media such as The Conversation; examples include “Researchers
 invent device that generates light from the cold night sky” (Kettle), which attracted 60,000 views.
 The University also introduced a social and digital media strategy to promote research in this
 REF period, which greatly benefited dissemination of Wang’s research; his ‘spider silk’
 microscope reached >15,700 web pages with 110,000 views since publication.


 4.4 Other esteem indicators

 Examples of instances demonstrating esteem during the assessment period are:

       Lee served on the US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine
        Committee for Independent Assessment of Science and Technology, for the Department
        of Energy’s Defense Environmental Cleanup Programme. He was the only non-USA
        member and the committee reported direct to US Congress. He was also a member of
        the UK Government Nuclear Innovation and Research Advisory Board (2014-17), the
        Royal Society Policy Briefing Committee on Nuclear Co-Generation and the Global
        Challenges Research Fund Networking Grants scheme Awards panel, an Evaluator for
        the EC H2020 Widespread programme Teaming Phase 2, and on the External Advisory
        Board of a multi-member US consortium Center for Performance and Design of Nuclear
        Waste Forms and Containers hosted by Ohio State University.
       Middleburgh is a member of the team working with the Foreign Office, Ministry of
        Defence and Counter Proliferation & Arms Control Centre as an expert on nuclear fuel

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        manufacture and behaviour for the UK’s commitment to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of
        Action (colloquially called the Iran Nuclear Deal, 2018-2020). Rushton and Middleburgh
        are members of the EPSRC UK-Japan panel for civil nuclear research funding.
       Neill was a steering committee member of a US Department of Energy SNL “Early
        market Hotspot” project (2017-2019).
       Kettle was a member of the Advisory Board to BEIS on future of Research Fund for Coal
        and Steel.
       Lee, Shore, Giddings, Ritsos, Roberts and Nezhad are full members of the EPSRC
        Peer Review College. Kettle and Hong are associate EPSRC Peer-Review College
        members and Neill a NERC Peer-Review College member.
       Roberts was Chair of an ICT, EPSRC prioritisation panel. Neill is an assessment panel
        member of the EPSRC UK/China offshore renewable energy call.
       Nezhad was invited as a ‘Silicon Photonics Champion’ by the University of Southampton
        to assist in preparing their 2020 bid for a Silicon Photonics National Research Facility.
       Hancock received the IOP Katharine Burr Blodgett Medal for designing and patenting
        an electro-surgery platform to treat lesions in the gastrointestinal tract.


 4.5. Fellowship/leadership of significant societies

 Our staff have achieved national and international recognition in multiple diverse areas.
 Examples during the REF201 period are:

       Shore is the General Secretary and Council member of the Learned Society of Wales.
       Lee is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering; City and Guilds Institute; Institute
        of Materials, Minerals and Mining; American Ceramic Society and Foreign Fellow of the
        Indian National Academy of Engineering. He was also President of the American
        Ceramic Society (2016-17), the first from outside the USA in its 120-year history.
       Tang is a Fellow of The ERA Foundation.
       Kettle is member of International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) 63288 Technical
        Discussion Group (2018-present).
       Neill is a member of the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) committee on
        Tidal Resource Characterization and Assessment (developing the international technical
        specification), plus the corresponding British Standards Institution committee (2016-
        present)
       Rushton and Middleburgh both sit on the Materials Chemistry Committee of the
        Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining and are members of the Nuclear Institute.
        Middleburgh has been awarded Fellowship of the Institute of Materials, Minerals and
        Mining (2020).


 4.6 Editorial boards/Conferences

 Five members of staff have been full editors/sub-editors of journals since 2014 including Lee
 (Journal of the American Ceramic Society, Ceramics International, Advances in Applied
 Ceramics), Kettle (RSC Advances), Vidal (Array), Roberts (Journal of Information
 Visualisation), Neill (Renewable Energy), Middleburgh (MRS Advances).


 4.7 Conferences

 Bangor’s Engineering researchers have made 67 invited research presentations and 18
 keynotes/plenary presentations since 2014. We have acted as 16 conference chairs/convenors
 including at major conferences such as IEEE International Microwave Symposium (Honolulu,
 2017). Our staff have been members of 32 programme committees, and we have hosted three
                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international conferences. Middleburgh was a symposium organiser for the Fall Materials
 Research Society 2019 meeting “Structure–Property Processing Performance Relationships in
 Materials for Nuclear Technologies.” Lee, Rushton and Middleburgh hosted the UK Nuclear
 Academics Meeting at Bangor with Imperial College, attended by around 100 academics,
 industry and civil servants, and Kettle the 13th PVSAT (Photovoltaics Science, Applications &
 Technology) with around 200 academics. Vidal was the Conference Chair for Eurographics:
 Computer Graphics & Visual Computing 2019.




                                                                                         Page 16
