Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Gray’s School of Art, Robert Gordon University

 Unit of Assessment: 32

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Gray’s School of Art at Robert Gordon University was established in 1885 and its overarching
 mission focuses on the potential of the artist and designer to contribute to society through
 thought leadership, and practical outcomes based on material outputs, exhibitions, and written
 material. The ethos of Gray’s research is grounded in the established traditions of Art and
 Design practice and theory in the North-East of Scotland. Our work is underpinned by an
 awareness of our impact on our environment and on the sustainability of our practices, critically
 important as our city and region begin to feel its way towards a post-oil future. The persistence
 of extractive models of economic development in our region based on agriculture, fishing, oil and
 gas, means that the North-East of Scotland does not conform to dominant models of cultural
 development in the context of post-industrial urban and metropolitan regeneration.

 In 2015-16, in response to this complex local and national picture, the University decided to re-
 focus its approach in terms of its research strategy, and that this current REF period would be
 one of re-building, with the aim of establishing a more vibrant interdisciplinary research culture,
 and developing emerging research strategies and impacts. With this in mind, research at Gray’s
 has been re-focused and transformed fundamentally since the last REF exercise in 2014. Only
 one staff member submitted in 2014 has been re-submitted this time, and our focus has been on
 a smaller group of staff who are engaged consistently in high quality and impactful research.

 In terms of research management, Blackwood was appointed as Research Lead in May 2018
 to begin to shape these changes within the School. This has resulted in a leaner research group
 and a more focused submission for REF2021, based around a much different group of
 researchers working on parallel, but overlapping, territories of interest. Only three members of
 staff in this research group were employed at Gray’s before 2014, with three having joined since
 the beginning of 2019.

 This re-structuring of the research team was built around five key personnel returned for REF
 (4.2FTE), all of whose practice relates clearly to one or more research strengths of the School.
 Research management is also leaner with the Research Lead responsible for the School’s
 research strategy and policy, and representing the School on the University Research
 Committee and, as Research Degrees Co-Ordinator, on the Postgraduate Research Degrees
 Committee.

 In terms of the School’s research and impact strategy, the focus is on four thematic areas:

 Cultural Ecologies & Environment (Blackwood, Clarke, Fremantle, Hackett) seeks to
 understand the interactions of creative, economic and political actors within society and the way
 that these interactions shape and are shaped by the work of artists and designers; the ways that
 the sum of these actions impact on our environment and issues of sustainability.

 Curatorship (Blackwood, Clarke, Fremantle, Winter) Gray’s has developed significant
 expertise nationally and internationally in curatorship in the last REF period, with staff delivering
 shows in Scotland, England, Portugal, Croatia, North Macedonia, and Montenegro. Staff have


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 also intervened significantly in developing discussion around the relationship between
 anthropology and curation, and in the emerging field of digital curation.

 Design-Led Business Support (Nicoll, Steed) Gray’s has developed two significant Knowledge
 Transfer Partnership (KTP) applied research partnerships since 2017 and hosts Look Again
 Festival of Visual Art & Design, which has mentored and supported small businesses and
 individual creatives locally and nationally as part of its broad spectrum of cultural work. Steed’s
 work on Augmented Fashion and Smart Textiles has grown exponentially during this period and
 is set to become a key priority in the next REF period. Steed has worked with colleagues in the
 School of Computing and the School of Creative and Cultural Business at RGU, with a new
 partnership with Donghua University in China being an important marker of this interdisciplinary
 research.

 Artist as Maker (Blyth, Guild, Macintosh, Gilmour, Chalmers) We have makers of national and
 international calibre in our research staff. Gray’s has pioneered methodologies of practice-led,
 creative research over two decades. For example, Guild has exhibited internationally on a wide
 range of subjects in his painting, from the Anthropocene and climate change to philosophical
 enquiries into the nature and perception of material and objects; the relationship between two
 and three dimensions. Blyth has developed a partnership with Fermynwoods Contemporary in
 East Northamptonshire; intervening in a number of socially engaged and inclusive projects
 through contemporary art practice with socially excluded and vulnerable young adults.
 (http://fermynwoods.org/scotland-to-corby/)

 Within each of these areas the aims have been to (i) increase grant income substantially (ii)
 increase the number of high quality research outputs (iii) build on existing cross-school, external
 and international collaborations (iv) re-build a community of research degree students in
 strategic collaboration with the Graduate School and the Research Training Co-Ordinator, Paula
 Sledzinska; and (v) grow a broad and multi-faceted research culture that provides both stimulus
 and support for existing researchers, and is welcoming to new colleagues and students alike.

 In addition, Gray’s researchers are committed to delivering research of the highest integrity and
 adhering strictly to best-practice ethical standards. Research proposals are subject to robust
 internal peer review and, more widely, if appropriate, the university research committee. A
 section on the school’s research committee agendas is devoted to any ethical matters that may
 have arisen from colleagues’ research. It should be said that no research proposal submitted in
 the reporting period required significant ethical oversight, but the mechanisms are there- at both
 school and university level- as they are required.

 The work of Steed, working on AHRC-funded research alongside colleagues in the schools of
 Computing, and Creative and Culture Business, exemplifies the School’s renewed broader
 interdisciplinary perspective. Fremantle’s work with Art & Health, and with Wetlands research as
 part of the Ramsar network, Blackwood’s research into cultural ecologies, the intersections of
 contemporary activism, politics and art, and McIntosh’s designed jewellery yoking together
 elements of sound and the landscape, are further examples of this refreshed focus.

 In terms of impact and engagement, research makes a significant contribution to teaching at Gray’s
 at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels, marking significant added value to our classroom
 offer. Our staff disseminate their work nationally and internationally through invited public lectures.
 Our public-facing programme, Guest at Gray’s, sees very high-profile professionals from across the
 creative disciplines come to address our undergraduates, postgraduates and staff community both in

                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 terms of research and practice. Recent visiting lecturers on this programme have included Charles
 Esche (Director, van Abbe Museum, Eindhoven), artists Martin Creed, Jacqueline Donachie,
 Beverley Hood, Jade Montserrat, and the White Pube.

 Gray’s also has significant strengths in research and commercialisation, and design-led business
 support. Since 2019, the Look Again Festival of Visual Art and Design (established in 2015), has
 been an integral part of the School and is a key conduit of ideas for the city and region’s creative
 community, in terms of exhibition making, small business mentorship and support, and the
 development of new opportunities for creatives in the early stages of their career (Nicoll). In practical
 terms, the development of Look Again from 2015, from being an on-campus festival to a city-wide
 weekender festival attracting thousands of visitors to the city, is a key marker of Gray’s engagement
 with the cultural ecology of Aberdeen.

 In addition, Gray’s has grown its experience in KTP activities (Steed), with one successful
 collaboration with Montrose Rope and Sail having just finished, and another to begin on the Isle of
 Lewis, fostering excellence in interdisciplinary research and knowledge exchange.

 We will continue to make progress on fostering an open research culture. We have taken significant
 steps forward towards this since 2014. All staff research is now available openly on our university
 worktribe via individual researcher profiles, and is available, subject to publisher’s restrictions, to any
 member of the public. Staff also share finished outputs and research in progress via platforms such
 as researchgate and academia.edu, and via individual professional profile sites (see for example
 jonblackwood.net and chris.fremantle.org). Our annual research conference is open to any member
 of the public who wishes to attend and is advertised widely in local print and digital media.
 Colleagues are committed, as appropriate, to sharing research data with others scholars and
 students wherever ethically possible. Blackwood’s raw data files from field interviews conducted with
 artist and cultural workers in Macedonia as part of his Carnegie Trust-funded research project, in the
 summer of 2015, are available on request for those who wish to hear them. Colleagues have
 responded actively throughout the period to the rapidly changing contours of open access publication
 and research.

 Looking forward, Gray’s intends to develop steadily and to grow capacity around the key research
 priorities of cultural ecologies and environment, curatorship, design-led business support, and art
 making. With the new structures for the management and development of research now settled
 down, staff are beginning to meet the University’s priorities of interdisciplinarity and international
 partnership (Steed, Blackwood, Fremantle). Discussions are ongoing with regard to developing and
 extending Gray’s virtual exhibition offer following the successful delivery of the virtual degree show in
 June 2020 (Nicoll) with commercial partners Design & Code in Aberdeen (Blackwood, Nicoll). It is
 intended that future PhD studentships will be offered in the strategically important areas of curating
 and augmented fashion / textiles. Through our support to our early career researchers (ECR) and the
 offer of a research sabbatical for those whose research agenda requires a period away from teaching
 responsibilities, we intend to grow the capacity and reach of our research and research ambitions
 through to 2026/27.

 In the next cycle of research activity, we intend to establish ourselves as a centre of excellence for
 curatorial activity, and to build upon the growing momentum around augmented fashion, with internal
 discussions ongoing around the creation of an Augmented Fashion Lab under Steed’s leadership. In
 supporting the development of these key areas, we will also continue to grow the level of our
 research grant applications and income (£2.4 million worth of bids across 31 different application
 have been submitted since 2018, with £499,500 of funding currently active) and through targeted
 studentships re-build the postgraduate community, in collaboration with our Graduate School. In



                                                                                                     Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 focusing on areas that reflect our current capacity and working intensively on them, we intend to grow
 Gray’s research significantly in terms of staff, income and outputs in the years ahead.




    2. People

 Staffing strategy & staff development

 The developments described above, since May 2018, have seen a re-structuring of research at
 Gray’s. The creation of the post of Research Lead re-established research on the Senior
 Management Team of the School and provides a direct link between the Head of School and
 wider RGU management, and research staff, leading to an easy and transparent sharing of key
 information. The Research Lead chairs the Gray’s Research Committee which normally meets
 four times per annum, as well as sitting on the University research committee, which meets three
 times per annum.

 Staff research activities are now managed directly by Blackwood who reports to the Head of School,
 and liaises with the Vice Principal for Research, for Gray’s research activities. The focus since 2018
 has been to ensure the maximisation of research time for staff through a programme of informal
 lunchtime activities and networking, both within the School (Gray’s Research Lunches) and across
 the University (Research Leads Networking; Gray’s Research conference in 2018 and 2019). All
 research staff now have individual set targets for raising research income and for the production of
 outputs, considering career stage and capacity for future growth.

 In addition to having workloads defined clearly, staff are encouraged to grow and develop through an
 ongoing series of twice termly meetings on research development (before COVID; this is presently
 once termly during the pandemic period). These individual meetings between the Research Lead and
 staff allow management to better understand staff plans and aspirations and to factor these in
 appropriately with their line manager in the twice-yearly Employee Performance Review. Whereas in
 REF 2014 research leadership was devolved to three professorial staff members, research is now led
 by a Reader, with the management and discussion of research being less hierarchical than has been
 the case in the past.

 The Research Lead is supported in the delivery of research activities by two senior researchers
 (Steed, Fremantle) who provide a critical sounding board as well as mentorship and support for
 less experienced researchers. Gray’s currently has three ECRs, who are supported by the newly
 established University Early Career Research Network. Under the aegis of Paula Sledzinska,
 Research Training Co-Ordinator based at the University’s Research Strategy & Policy
 Department and the Graduate School, the ECRN runs a lively programme of specialist
 workshops, opportunities to present research, and mentorships, as well as clear pathways to
 developing the pillars of an early academic’s career in grant writing, presentation of research,
 workload management and career progression. Staff with access to the ECRN programme
 benefit from a range of invited speakers as well as individual advice and mentorship.

 Since May 2018, research has been key in the appointment of new academic staff. With
 research now managed directly by the School, staff recruitment has research track record or
 clear future research potential as a key requirement of all academic appointments, with
 membership of the research group granted automatically to all new staff. This has already
 yielded dividends in attracting researchers of the calibre of Guild (January 2019) and Winter
 (July 2019). This is key to the building of research critical mass within the School which had

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 been challenging following the retirement of Douglas and the moving on of other senior
 colleagues in the period 2014-17.

 All new staff are subject to a probation period of twelve months in line with the University’s HR
 policies. Staff who have either received external funding, or who require a period of focused
 research away from the campus, are entitled to apply for a research sabbatical. The sabbatical,
 lasting for one semester, allows the member of staff to complete a programme of work agreed
 by a group comprising of the University Vice Principal for Research, the Head of Gray’s School
 of Art, and the Research Lead, who is the first formal point of support and monitoring during the
 sabbatical itself.

 Staff have 20% of their contracted hours allocated to research, with the exception of three senior
 staff members who have between 35% to 80% allocated for research funding and management
 duties. Staff are supported through an active programme of research lunches, where
 developments can be shared informally, and termly research strategy days, where
 developments on our strategy can be shared and discussed, and where advice sessions led by
 our colleagues from the RGU Research Strategy & Policy Department ensure that our research
 staff are kept up to date on procedures for impact, grant writing, time and record management,
 shaping and developing research questions and resultant programmes of work.

 The annual research conference, open to the public, has been a critical support to the
 development of our younger researchers and in building their self-confidence in presenting their
 research to varied audiences, since the inaugural conference on Space & Spatiality in October
 2018, and the subsequent event “Creativity and the Periphery”, in 2019. These events have
 enabled Gray’s staff to present their latest research findings alongside visiting speakers such as
 Dr. Stephen Pritchard, and the curatorial duo Mother Tongue (Tiffany Boyle and Jessica
 Carden). Both events have been attended by over 100 people, with our research profile in the
 city and region grown significantly as a result. Internally, this is an important research-driven link
 between undergraduate and postgraduate students, and staff.
 (https://www.eveningexpress.co.uk/fp/news/local/aberdeen-university-to-hold-art-conference/)

 Research students

 Gray’s collaborates closely with the University Graduate School in managing PhDs, having been
 a sectoral leader in practice-led research since the 1990s. The development and maintenance of
 our PhD community is a central node in the School’s long-term research strategy, providing a
 vital link between theory and practice. The track record of our PhD students subsequent to
 completion is a source of pride for us.

 In the last REF period, seven PhD students, from a total of nine enrolled, completed their theses
 with consistently high results. Melehat Gulari, who completed her PhD in 2014, collaborated
 with Fremantle on AHRC funded Design in Action KE Hub 2012-16, bringing knowledge of
 Small to Medium Businesses and creating a SME network for Design in Action; and developed a
 UK/Turkish international network of researchers and SMEs through Researcher Links/Newton
 Fund in 2016 (£38k). Paul Thompson completed a doctorate in 2014 considering the impact of
 digital processes and networked participation on post-physical printmaking practice; he is now a
 part time lecturer at Edinburgh Napier University. Peter Buwert completed 2016 in Ethical
 Design: a Foundation for Visual Communication, and is now a lecturer at Edinburgh Napier
 University. Helen Smith completed in 2015, on an AHRC funded Collaborative Doctoral Award
 with the Barn, Banchory, and now lectures on the Masters in Cultural Policy at Newcastle

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University. Jonathan Price completed 2016 on the “Artist as Leader” and is now a lecturer in
 Creativity and Enterprise at Leeds University. Caroline Gausden completed 2016 and is working
 as a postdoctoral researcher between the University of St Andrews and Glasgow Women's
 Library. Maja Zećo completed a PhD by practice in sound art and performance in 2019, and is a
 full-time artist about to embark on a publicly funded three month residency at Aberdeen Art
 Gallery and Museum. Zećo’s work was fully funded by a Scottish Graduate School for the Arts &
 Humantiies Collaborative Doctoral Award. Unfortunately, two of our research students did not
 complete their programme of study; redacted 1 did not submit within the required time and was
 de-registered in 2019; redacted 2 failed at viva stage in 2019. Redacted 1 is now a working
 artist, whilst redacted 2 has enrolled on a new course in a separate discipline, abroad.
 Notwithstanding these last two cases, taken in the round, this is a record of considerable
 achievement for our PhD students in an extremely competitive marketplace.

 Equality & Diversity

 RGU is an Equal Opportunities employer and this is embedded in all our HR policies and
 processes (https://www.rgu.ac.uk/about/governance/equality-diversity/equality-diversity-policy).
 We have a number of family friendly policies which include generous maternity pay and leave
 above the statutory provision. RGU has a flexible working policy that allows staff once they have
 enough service to apply for flexible working regardless of their personal circumstance.

 Five of eleven active researchers have been included in the REF exercise for 2021. The group
 comprises 11 staff (FTE 8.9) of which five are men (3.7FTE, 45%) and six women (5.2FTE,
 55%). This compares favourably with the composition of the school’s academic staff; of 34
 academic staff members, 22 (65%) are men and 12 (35%) are women. Of a total staff of 62 at
 Gray’s (academic, support and technical staff) 33 (53%) are men and 29 (47%) are women.

 Of the research group of eleven, three are early career researchers, six are established
 researchers, with two senior researchers. Gray’s is committed to building and extending
 leadership capability across the organisation and our research group is no exception. In the next
 REF cycle there will be a focus on building research leadership capacity amongst our eight
 established or senior researchers, and to further encourage the use of our sabbatical policy.

 At all levels of our work Gray’s is committed to redressing the gender imbalance in our academic
 staff. Two of our last three academic appointments since January 2019 have been women, and
 we will continue to make progress on this journey in the next REF cycle, in the broader context
 of the university’s work towards an Athena Swan award.




    3. Income, infrastructure and facilities



                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The funding data evidences a good range of activity across the School. This includes research
 income through AHRC research awards, charitable trust awards, and KTP awards in the
 reporting period. This is part of our established aim to grow research income and consultancy
 year on year, with £499,500 of active research grant money currently in play, and granted during
 the REF assessment period.

 Our research work at Gray’s is supported closely by colleagues at the Research Strategy &
 Policy Department, with a team offering support on grant administration and opportunities,
 dialogue on research policy and strategy, equality & diversity and data protection, and focused
 work on grant writing and career development through one to one mentorship and workshops.
 RGU introduced a “Research Week” in June of every year in session 2018/19 which encourages
 collaboration and the sharing of best practice, across the University’s schools and disciplines,
 and an annual internally distributed research magazine available to all staff.

 Individual research staff are tasked annually with applying for a level of funding dependent on
 the stage of their research career. Early career research staff are expected to apply for a
 minimum of £5,000 annually; established mid-career staff, a minimum of £25,000 annually; staff
 with significant research experience or responsibility are expected to apply for £50,000 and
 upward, annually. Targeted support for individual researchers is offered through individual
 mentoring at Gray’s and through practical support from colleagues in the University’s Research
 Strategy and Policy office. A monthly conversation between the Research Lead and the
 Research Development Co-Ordinator, Carolina Kenny (based in the strategy and policy office)
 ensures that staff are kept appraised of trends in funded research and how these map onto the
 School’s defined research priorities, in order to maintain an ongoing inventory of funding
 opportunities and ideas for colleagues at Gray’s.

 In keeping with developments across the sector, the management of research data has
 undergone remarkable change since the last REF exercise. Worktribe has been rolled out and
 updated continuously since 2018, managed and supported by the Research Asset Management
 staff, and is now an established part of our research data gathering internally, and a platform for
 the presentation of our research activities publicly.

 In respect of Design-Led Business support, Steed is leading for Gray’s on the AHRC-funded
 interdisciplinary project Augmented Fashion: Immersive Interactions For Sustainable Heritage In
 Fashion And Textiles, worth £406,312.11 and beginning in February 2020; outputs and impacts
 will underpin the first part of the next REF cycle. The AHRC also funded Augmented to
 Authentic, Weaving the Past into the Future, worth £22,518.00, in 2019.

 Steed has also led Gray’s activity on Knowledge Transfer Partnerships, in which the School has
 developed significant expertise. Between February 2018 and February 2020, the Innovate UK
 project, in partnership with Montrose Rope & Sail, saw the development, manufacture and brand
 of a new range of products within the luxury high-end fashion accessories market. This saw jobs
 created within the business, and the grant was valued at £139,428.00. In delivering this project,
 Steed also developed new work with Innovate UK and Harris Tweed brand Hebrides, which will
 bring £163,249 to the School in the next reporting period.

 Further on this theme of design-led business support, Fremantle was the RGU lead in the
 consortium of six Scottish universities that formed part of the AHRC-funded Design in Action
 grouping. In the period 2012/16, Fremantle developed work around the theme of Knowledge

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Exchange Hubs for the Creative Economy, in a grant valued at £487,078. Following on from this work
 Fremantle has built considerably in the territories covered by Design in Action; £38,000 from the
 British Council for the project Designtrepreneurship delivered with Gulari in 2017; an AHRC research
 grant valued at £3,059 to write the report Issues Facing Arts & Health Practitioners completed in
 2019; and a further £2,500 for mentorship of Nicola Naismith on the AHRC Clore Leadership
 programme (https://www.cloreleadership.org/network/clore-fellows/15904). Fremantle has
 supervised Naismith’s work continuously during this period.

 In the area of Design-Led Business Support, Sutherland worked on a projected funded by Lord’s
 Taverners to re-design a table cricket set in the period 2018-20, funded by the Taverners at a total
 value of £50,000. Sutherland’s applied research practice focuses in particular on the circular
 economy and the recycling of plastics. In this sense, he has started a small enterprise
 (https://originthat.com/) focused on setting up recycling hubs, that will transform plastic waste into a
 useful end product in front of visitors’ eyes. Established internally with £10k. from the Robert Gordon
 University Accelerator fund, this fledgling business has since attracted £15k from Zero Waste
 Scotland for a Plastics Audit, and £7k from the European Innovation Fund to establish a dedicated
 hub within campus and to provide tooling for the work.

 Nicoll’s work as co-director of the Look Again festival has seen a range of focused activity on design-
 led business support, and growth and development of the cultural infrastructure in Aberdeen and the
 wider North-East region. Since 2018, Nicoll has raised £139,000 from Creative Scotland and from the
 Scottish Funding Council; examples of this impactful and innovative programme have included
 Cultivate: Developing the Creative Industries in the North East (funded by a Creative Scotland grant
 of £19,200); Cultivate and Activate (a continuation of the previous programme, lasting from
 September 2018-September 2020, funded by Creative Scotland and Aberdeen City Council to the
 value of £45,000), and the Create : Networks Programme to extend Look Again Business Support to
 North Aberdeenshire, Orkney & Shetland, funded by a £30,000 Creative Scotland grant. The clear
 synergies between Nicoll’s activities in Design-led Business support and our strategic research focus
 on Curatorship are being actively pursued and developed as we move into the next REF cycle.

 Hackett’s work on artistic methods and the socially excluded was funded as part of a joint bid with
 colleagues at the University of Edinburgh; he was awarded £4,828 as part of an ESRC-funded
 research project into Care Leavers’ Relationships with mental health and social media.

 In the strategic area of curatorship, Blackwood was awarded £3,500 from the Carnegie Trust for the
 Universities in Scotland for the project Contemporary Macedonian Artists talking in 2014/15, which
 subsequently resulted in the first book published wholly funded by this scheme. Blackwood has also
 benefitted from nearly £30,000 of internally awarded GCRF funding for research into the cultural
 ecology of North Macedonia.

 The development of a strong research centre in Curatorship is further enhanced by the
 University holdings. We have an extensive collection of artefacts (paintings, drawings, sculpture,
 design and craft objects including ceramics, digital work, fashion garments and photographs
 dating back to the 19th Century). The Art and Heritage Collections were awarded Full Museum
 Accreditation by Museums Libraries and Archives Council in February 2009 and work is
 procured on an annual basis. The University is participating in the Public Catalogue
 Foundation’s (PCF and BBC) ‘Your Paintings’ online catalogue and database, and has more
 than 850 paintings from the collection included in the initiative. In addition, RGU library service
 subscribes to over 85 online databases, including Art Full Text, Business Source Premier,
 Design and Applied Arts Index and Web of Knowledge and image databases that contain
 copyright cleared images for educational use: Art Museum Image Gallery and Bridgeman


                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Education, Scottish Cultural Resource Access Network (SCRAN). The University is an associate
 member of the Scottish Graduate School for the Arts and Humanities, and a full member of the
 Council for Higher Education in Art & Design (CHEAD).




 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our contributions to the research base, economy and society are orientated clearly around the
 four areas of strategic importance to the School: Curatorship, Design-Led Business Support,
 Cultural Ecologies & the Environment, and the Artist as Maker. Colleagues are involved in
 collaborative projects awarded competitively by major research councils and we have a well-
 established network of collaborations locally, nationally, and internationally.

 The supple management of research at Gray’s, taken together with commercialisation activities,
 has enabled the School to meet the challenge set by the University of fostering interdisciplinary
 partnerships within and beyond the University. Key partnerships with organisations such as
 Aberdeen Art Gallery and Museum, re-opened in autumn 2019, Peacock Visual Arts, the
 Scottish Sculpture Workshop (Lumsden), Deveron Projects (Huntly), Timespan (Helmsdale), the
 Scottish National Gallery of Modern Art, and Summerhall (Edinburgh) demonstrate an
 embedded network of relationships within wider local, regional and natural cultural ecologies

 Steed’s KTP work (Montrose Rope and Sail, February 2018-2020) saw the School collaborate
 with an external company to create a new range of products aimed at the luxury high end
 fashion market. This trajectory is continuing beyond the REF period with a new KTP project
 working with Harris Tweed Hebrides, in focusing on sustainable business demand for the Outer
 Hebrides Textile industry. Steed’s KTP work builds on previous experience of these projects
 within the School and across the University, in collaboration with the Entrepreneurship &
 Innovation Group. These are projects with ramifications locally, nationally and internationally,
 and will underpin the University’s ambitions to develop the research area of Augmented Fashion
 & Textiles.

 Steed has begun to work on the project Augmented Fashion: Immersive Interactions For
 Sustainable Heritage In Fashion And Textiles (from 1 Feb 2020) with colleagues from RGU’s
 School of Computing, the School for Creative and Cultural Business, and Donghua University,
 China. This is an interdisciplinary, international partnership of critical importance to the School.

 Locally, Steed and Nicoll led on the national conference on Aberdeenshire fashion designer Bill
 Gibb, and his legacy. Featuring scholars and academics from around the UK, this was due to be
 held at Aberdeen Art Gallery and Museum, over two days, in March 2020. As a result of the
 pandemic, this took place on 20 March 2021 (https://www.aberdeencity.gov.uk/AAGM/whats-
 aberdeen-art-galleries-and-museums/fashion-fantasy-and-collaboration-legacy-bill-gibb).

 Research-active staff continue to have significant profiles as makers of art and as designers,
 which is the longest running strategic theme at Gray’s. McIntosh’s practice as an interdisciplinary
 jewellery designer was showcased in the Collect exhibition organised by the Crafts Council at
 Somerset House, in February-March 2020. Her work responds to a sense of place through
 sound. Guild maintains an international exhibiting practice (Scottish Gallery, Edinburgh, 2019) as

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a painter and collaborated with Gray’s staff in 2017 as part of an exhibition at Summerhall,
 Edinburgh (Blyth, Guild). As Early Career Researchers, Gilmour and Chalmers both had early
 showings of their work at the Look Again space in Aberdeen (2019/20).

 Academics have further given invited lectures at the National Gallery of Scotland in Edinburgh
 (Blackwood 2014-16, four occasions); the European Centre for Advanced Studies (Steed),
 Aberdeen Art Gallery and Museums (Steed; Blackwood; Nicoll); Peacock Visual Arts
 (Blackwood, Clarke) Politecnico di Milano, Chelsea College of the Arts (Steed), Sheffield
 University, EASA (European Association for Social Anthropology), CCA Glasgow, (Clarke).
 Gray’s researchers have participated in conferences nationally and internationally, including the
 Association of Art Historians (Blackwood, 2017). Clarke devised The Skin and Body Lab for
 EASA Conference, University of Stockholm, with Dr. Claire Vionnet, University of Bern,
 Switzerland. And the RAI Conference Art Materiality and Representation, the British Museum
 and SOAS, London

 Fremantle also led for RGU in its role as a consortium partner in Design in Action (DiA) (2012 –
 2016), an AHRC funded Design-led Support Programme (DSP) and Knowledge Exchange (KE)
 Hub across six institutions. RGU’s role as consortium partner was to demonstrate economic
 impacts, foster international collaborations and to find new ways of evaluating impact, in
 partnership with ‘Design in Action’ (DinA).

 The RGU consortium focussed on H2020 and the food sector. Initially, the consortium held
 meetings in order to consolidate them into H2020 funded bids. An application around was
 progressed with the Newton Fund, together with our Turkish colleague Professor Özlem Er. The
 specific call that the RGU - DiA Hub proposal responded to was the Research Links: Workshop
 Call, which covered a number of challenges including: Food and Nutrition and Food Security.

 The research focused on how design can contribute to innovation for business. RGU had
 previously led the European Union funded Centre for Design and Innovation and supported
 doctoral research on DSPs (Gulari 2013). As a result of our participation in the Design in Action
 KE Hub, RGU researchers and academics have developed new business models supporting
 creative entrepreneurs, businesses and SMEs with design-led innovation KE methodologies
 through an extensive programme of creative industry developments to support creative
 enterprises.

 An example was the support offered in the founding of Beer52, a craft beer subscription service
 founded in September 2013. As of now, the business employs eleven full time staff, engages
 four further freelancers, and is a company now valued at four million pounds, with an annual
 turnover of £2.6 million. The legacy of Fremantle’s work with colleagues has been a consistent
 focus on Design-Led Business Support throughout the last REF period.

 Fremantle is continuing to work with Professor Emeritus Douglas on research into art and
 ecology with particular reference to the Center for Force Majeure Studies at UC Santa Cruz,
 USA. Douglas and Fremantle’s rigorous collaborative research practice has seen in recent
 years outputs on the work of Newton and the late Helen Mayer Harrison, published by
 international publishers (New York : Prestel and London: Routledge), work which has resonance
 locally for our students through the programme of work at the Barn, Banchory.

 Newton and Helen Mayer Harrison were pioneering land and ecological artists whose work from
 the late 1960s onwards has asked profound questions on the relationship of the artist to their

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 environment and awareness of the role that the artist can play in our society. These are trends
 that are particularly resonant in our own time of climate emergency, and it underpins their public
 programme of work, On the Deep Wealth of this Nation : Scotland. This is a programme
 supported by the James Hutton Institute, Aberdeen, and the Scottish Environment, Food and
 Agricultural Research Institutes (SEFARI, funded by the Scottish government).
 https://www.thebarnarts.co.uk/artist/newton-harrison

 Fremantle is also an independent arts producer responsible for projects such as Nil by Mouth:
 Food, Farming, Science and Sustainability, as well as producing the ecoartscotland programme
 and blog. As a curator, he delivered the exhibition Reclaiming Wetland Values: Marsh, Mud and
 Wonder at the Royal Geographical Society in London (January/February 2020), part of World
 Wetlands day on 2 February 2020. This exhibition is one of the reflections of our strategic
 interest in art & the environment, with the issue of food security linking Fremantle’s research
 work into contemporary art practices (the Harrisons), the Knowledge Exchange Hub and
 ongoing research into Art & Health. Fremantle helped to establish the Arts, Culture Health &
 Wellbeing Scotland network as a response to the Scottish Government’s Cultural Policy.

 Winter has developed significant work in the area of curatorship since joining the University in
 2019. She acted as guest curator of the exhibition Edward Allington: Things Unsaid at the Henry
 Moore Centre in Leeds from October 2019 to January 2020, based on personal knowledge of
 the artist as well as art historical and curatorial research ( https://www.henry-moore.org/press-
 office/press-release/2019/07/09/edward-allington-things-unsaid# ). On the basis of this work,
 Winter produced a biography of Allington for the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography.
 Winter’s work with Professor Emeritus Tim Ingold and Roger Sansi on The Anthropologist as
 Curator holds the very discourse of curatorship up to sustained critical analysis and seems set to
 become a significant research direction in the next REF period.

 Blackwood has shaped an impactful body of curatorial work, focused mainly on the territory of
 the Western Balkans and in particular North Macedonia, Serbia, Bosnia-Herzegovina and
 Croatia. In the last REF period he curated exhibitions internationally in Montenegro, Croatia,
 Macedonia as well as in Scotland.(see, for example, https://www.summerhall.co.uk/visual-
 arts/captured-state/ ) Blackwood curated a total of seven exhibitions in the period including the
 first ever show of video art from North Macedonia in Aberdeen, the first showing in Scotland of
 Venice 2013 artist Mladen Miljanović (Peacock Visual Arts- see
 https://worm.gallery/showing/utopian-realism ), and also edited significant texts on Bosnian
 contemporary art funded by the leading commercial gallery duplex 100m2 in Sarajevo and by
 agnès b. in Paris.

 Blackwood’s book Critical Art in Contemporary Macedonia published in Skopje in 2016 was
 funded by a Research Incentive Grant of £3,500 from the Carnegie Trust for the Universities in
 Scotland. Blackwood had a major exhibition of contemporary Bosnian art entitled Suspended
 Animation, featuring a publication and show of seven selected artists, in development, but this
 was affected by COVID. Originally planned to run for the Edinburgh International Festival, at
 Summerhall, from July – October 2020, it has now been postponed for delivery in 2022. A
 broader interdisciplinary trajectory has emerged from this body of work based on participatory
 observation, and in particular on art, activism and post-socialist transformation both in the former
 Yugoslavia and in the countries of the former USSR, particularly Belarus.

 Anthropological approaches to contemporary art and design, with a particular focus on the
 curatorial and the anthropological, have strengthened in Gray’s in the last REF period. Clarke’s

                                                                                             Page 11
            Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
             appointment in 2016 has seen the development of a significant European art-anthropology
             network, the EASA (European Association of Social Anthropology), for which she will act as co-
             convenor during the period 2020-22 (https://easaonline.org/networks/antart/). Important activity
             has included an international exhibition backed in July 2020 by 3,000 euros exhibition funding,
             supported with matched in-kind funding by collaborator Faculdade de Belas-Artes da
             Universidade de Lisboa (Faculty of Fine Art, University of Lisbon), for ‘Fieldwork/s exhibition’, a
             show for which she acted as Co-Curator. Clarke is also a Group member & supported by ESRC
             Funded Network: The political Ecology of Coastal Societies, Aberdeen and Tohoku Universities,
             led by Prof. David Anderson.

ray’s ac.   . Our researchers also continue to develop and extend our international research networks. Gray’s
              now has established partnerships with Donghua University (China), the Universities of Sarajevo
              and Banja Luka (Bosnia-Herzegovina) and Belgrade & Niš (Serbia); the Gallery of Contemporary
              Art and the Museum of the City of Skopje in North Macedonia; the Institute of Contemporary Art
              in Zagreb, Croatia; the Centre for Force Majeure Studies, University of Santa Cruz. Staff have
              further completed research outputs and established or built upon networks in Belarus, Canada,
              Estonia, Germany, Portugal and Russia during the last REF period.

             Professional Memberships & National Collaborations:

             Blackwood sits on the executive of the Scottish Graduate School for Arts and Humanities
             (SGSAH) and has been a full member of the IKT (International Association of Curators of
             Contemporary Art) since summer 2018. He is also a member of the Association of Art
             Historians.

             Fremantle acts as the chair of the arts focus group of the Ramsar Cultural Network, a project of
             the Ramsar Convention on Wetlands funded by Mava Foundation (Switzerland), which has
             continued to function effectively since the end of funding. Fremantle helped to establish the
             Arts, Culture Health & Wellbeing Scotland network supported as part the Scottish Government’s
             Cultural Policy. He sits on the Board of Ayr Gaiety Partnership. He has also served on the Board
             of the South Ayrshire Arts Partnership. He served on the Executive of the Scottish Artists Union
             for ten years, and is a Fellow of the RSA.

             Steed is a Steering Group Member (Knowledge Exchange expert) in The Association of Fashion
             & Textile Courses (FTC). The subject association promotes and develops fashion and textiles
             through academic debate, education and research since 2018. She is also a Member of The
             Textile Institute and peer reviewer for The Textile Institute Journal. She is also a steering
             member of the Immersive Scotland knowledge exchange consortium.

             Clarke has served as Chair of the Board of Trustees at SSW in Lumsden since September 2019
             (http://www.ssw.org.uk/about/). She is a fellow of the Royal Anthropological Institute in London
             and holds memberships of the European Association of Social Anthropology and the Association
             of Social Anthropology. She has also acted as an invited reviewer for AHRC UK since 2019.

             Guild is a full member of the Royal Scottish Academy.

             Nicoll is Chair of the Arts & Enterprise Committee at WASPS Studios (2016-present) and sat on
             the board of Hospitalfield, Arbroath (2012-19).

ept. 2018

                                                                                                        Page 12
           Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
ug. 2018




                                                     Page 13
