Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leicester

 Unit of Assessment: UoA5 Biological Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The University of Leicester (UoL) has a long tradition of excellence over a broad spectrum of
 Biological Sciences research, reflected in the variety of organisms studied—from bacteriophage
 to barley, and from Mycobacteria to man—and the scale of questions addressed, from the
 molecular structure and function of transcriptional machinery to the genetic histories of human
 populations. Our researchers use a wide range of model organisms, including yeast, Drosophila,
 mouse and Arabidopsis, and have access to cutting-edge core facilities, including mass
 spectrometry, next-generation sequencing, multi-modal fluorescence imaging and cryo-electron
 microscopy. Cross-disciplinary projects are actively embraced leading to collaborations between
 biological and clinical researchers in Leicester that exploit fundamental discoveries to develop
 translational opportunities, and with physical and social scientists, as well as commercial and
 public partners, that make the most of strengths in atmospheric science and public health. Our
 research has had major impacts from the use of NMR structural biology to develop therapeutic
 antibodies (Impact Case Study 1 [ICS1]), to interdisciplinary teamwork (including ancient DNA
 analysis) that led to identification of the remains of the lost King of England and eponymous anti-
 hero of a Shakespeare play, Richard III (ICS4).

 UoA5 comprises 63 research-active PIs (60.4 FTE) and their teams within the College of Life
 Sciences, organised into four interlinked research groupings (Figure 1) that represent long-term
 areas of strength, and facilitate collegiality, communication and collaboration; the Structural &
 Chemical Biology and Microbiology & Infectious Disease groups in particular have benefited
 from recent targeted institutional investment. Over the REF period there have been ten new PI
 appointments, linked to strategic priorities.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since 2014 we have built on our research strengths, publishing over 1000 papers (20 per FTE)
 garnering 22,000 citations (20 per paper; mean field-weighted citation impact [FWCI] 1.75), and
 bringing in £58.3M of research income. Highlights of our research achievements include:

 - A £4.3M grant (2017; MRC and regional partners), leveraged by strategic investment in new
   institutes, to establish a state-of-the-art Regional Cryo-Electron Microscopy Facility, and one of
   only six Cryo-EM locations UK-wide;

 - Long-standing excellence in single-molecule approaches to gene expression, leading to a
   2019 £3.7M BBSRC sLoLa award (2019) to investigate how RNA-binding proteins control
   splice site selection;

 - Interdisciplinary collaboration between genetics and criminology empowering victims of sexual
   violence to collect forensic DNA evidence, supported by strategic internal seed-corn funding,
   and winning THE Award for Best Research Project in Social Science, Arts & Humanities
   (2018).

 Research and impact strategies
 Our Unit’s overarching strategy is to provide an environment (including expertise, infrastructure,
 collegiality and mentorship of our people) that allows our researchers to identify the key
 biological questions, to pursue the most exciting ideas, to produce the most excellent outputs
 and impact, and to provide the best training for the next generation of scientists. This approach
 underpins the progress made during the current REF period, and the strategy going forward to
 the next. These aims have been facilitated by a 5-year Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic
 Support Fund (WTISSF) award (£1.5M, matched by the University; 2017-22; one of 30 in the
 UK) led by our Dean of Research (Fry), entitled Crossing discipline, ethnic and social
 boundaries to promote health, which explicitly drives institutional culture change, and which the
 Wellcome Trust commended as ‘one of the best in our ISSF scheme’.

 • To support key areas of excellence the University invested in five research institutes in 2016,
 following a competitive process. The Leicester Institute of Structural and Chemical Biology
 (LISCB; director, Schwabe) includes sixteen UoA5 PIs, together with six PIs returned within
 UoA8, Chemistry. Meanwhile, many of our PIs with interests in human health (along with
 colleagues in UoAs 1, 2 and 4) belong to the Leicester Precision Medicine Institute (LPMI;
 co-director, Jones). This investment included new posts, facilities and project pump-priming,
 and has leveraged substantial research and impact success, described further below.

 • Emerging areas have been nurtured by smaller-scale seed-corn funding. University ‘Tiger
 Teams’ accomplish specific short-term innovative projects, while interdisciplinary Networks are
 supported longer-term and more generously to allow relationships among researchers to mature.
 Successful Networks graduate to Research Centres with more substantial support, as has been
 the case for our Microbiology & Infectious Disease grouping of ten PIs, who have established
 the Leicester Microbial Sciences and Infectious Diseases Research Centre (LeMID). All these
 schemes are quality-controlled by internal and external peer review.

 • Achievement of impact has been driven and incentivised by flexible internal funding schemes
 offering between £5k and £25k per round: the Prospects fund encourages researchers to be
 more entrepreneurial, and to exploit their research to generate public benefit; the Proof of
 Concept fund drives projects with commercial potential to achieve key milestones; the Impact


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Development fund supports the collection of evidence of impact. Alongside these schemes there
 has been institutional investment in Public Engagement (PE), including the appointment of a
 Professor of PE (King), and a PE Manager (Marie Nugent), funded through our WTISSF. The
 Unit has hosted Chris Finnis, an innovator with 25-years’ experience in the biopharmaceutical
 industry who was awarded a Royal Society Entrepreneur in Residence Fellowship (2018-20) to
 inspire entrepreneurship among staff and students. Since 2014 the Unit has benefited from
 translational funding from two MRC awards, receiving £65k of Proximity to Discovery, and
 £1.65M of Confidence in Concept funding.

 • Leicester Drug Discovery and Diagnostics (LD3; within LPMI) supports translational research,
 providing pump-priming funds from seven consecutive rounds of awards (£3.1M since 2014)
 from the Confidence In Concept scheme to accelerate development of therapies, diagnostic
 tests and devices. Current projects include the development of decoy proteins to bind and trap
 coronavirus, exploiting our new CryoEM facility (Brindle).

 • Interdisciplinarity lies at the heart of the Leicester Institute for Advanced Studies (LIAS),
 which reaches across the whole institution to nurture interdisciplinary research and manages the
 Tiger Teams and Networks mentioned above. Our WTISSF program included a Discipline
 Bridges scheme that supported 12 projects, including Virus Fear: Cultural Resistance to
 Biophage Therapy, a collaboration between Clokie and Elizabeth Jones (School of Arts). The
 interdisciplinary nature of LISCB lies in bringing together biologists and chemists (e.g. Millard,
 Schwabe, Cowley, Chem Commun 2020; Eperon, Nucleic Acids Res 2018), while LeMID
 provides a space for microbiologists to join with clinicians fighting infections on the front line. Our
 impact case studies showcase our interdisciplinarity, particularly in the Richard III identification
 project (ICS4), which involved collaboration between historians, archaeologists, and
 clinical/basic scientists (King, Nature Commun 2014).

 • Development of Research Institutes and other investment has allowed us to recruit
 outstanding new staff, including ten strategically appointed new academics, three facility
 managers and industry liaison staff. We have supported external applications from Early Career
 Researchers (ECRs), both via the WTISSF (24 Fellows University-wide, internal and external
 candidates; 7 within UoA5, including Fox, Roversi), and other schemes, including a Wellcome
 Trust Career Re-Entry Fellowship (Tufarelli). Several WTISSF Fellows have progressed to
 permanent academic posts here or elsewhere. Development of ECRs has been promoted by
 an cohort-based strategy that supports fellows (both WTISSF and others) to meet regularly and
 join forces in organising regional WTISSF symposia with other universities, in training, and in PE
 activities. All staff are supported in career development by annual Personal Development
 Discussions (PDDs) which form the basis for reviewing progress, and promotions.

 • We have maintained high levels of research income by continuing to gain awards from
 traditional sources including UKRI, CEC, Wellcome Trust, CRUK, and BHF, and by exploiting
 other opportunities including philanthropic donations and grants from other charities. We have
 supported our staff to grow the international aspects of their work and seek funding from Global
 Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) schemes, via annual competitive £10k International
 Research Development awards. Unit successes have mirrored excellent institutional
 performance here, as recognised by top THE ranking (2020) for the impact of UoL’s research on
 the UN Sustainable Development Goal of Life on Land (e.g. Clokie’s BBSRC Newton Grant
 [£524k] involving two Thai and two UK Universities; Heslop-Harrison’s Newton-Caldas award
 [£200k] to support sustainable agriculture in Colombia).


                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 • As well as winning external infrastructure awards (e.g. BBSRC Alert 18, Higgins) we have
 invested in facilities and infrastructure through the University Research Equipment &
 Infrastructure Fund, a £2M annual competitive scheme supporting purchase of equipment and
 match-funding of bids to external funders, bringing £4.3M into the Unit over the REF period. This
 equates to 31% of available funds, though UoA5 represents just 17% of eligible STEM FTE.

 • As described in our Institutional Environment Statement (IES, section 2.6) we are progressing
 towards an open research environment; this includes promoting the uptake of FigShare, in
 place at Leicester since 2018 as a repository where users can make all their research outputs
 available in a way that is citable, shareable and discoverable, adhering to the FAIR principles. In
 2020 the College of Life Sciences FigShare saw a monthly average of >40K views and >28K
 downloads. Aided by WTISSF funds, we hosted a 2018 Wellcome Trust Open Research
 workshop, and Library funding is available to support Open Access publication. During the
 assessment period, 80% of our outputs were published open access, compared to the Russell
 Group average of 63% (SciVal).

 • We have energetically promoted a culture of research integrity: Leicester is a signatory of the
 Concordat, and set up a Working Group (chair, Jobling) in 2014. This group established
 mechanisms for regular revision of our Research Code of Conduct, and disseminated online
 training on Research Integrity & Ethics (via Epigeum modules)—mandatory for PGR students
 and available for all staff engaged in research.

 • The University is a signatory of the Concordat on Openness in Animal Research in the UK,
 and our Pre-clinical Research Facility is proud of its Leader in Openness award for 2019-22 from
 Understanding Animal Research, following assessment including a public panel and peer
 review.

 • We are committed to constantly improving our research culture to produce a vital,
 sustainable, inclusive and honest environment that brings the best out of all our researchers. We
 run well-attended and inclusive seminar series (since 2014, external and UoL speakers were
 41% and 47% female respectively). We used WTISSF funds to support equality, diversity and
 inclusion (EDI) in research, to embed culture change in PE, and were invited by the Wellcome
 Trust to host the Midlands Reimagining Research Town Hall meeting (one of seven nationwide;
 Feb 2020). We signed the Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) in 2018, affirming our
 commitment to the responsible and fair use of research metrics, and incorporated new
 recommendations on the use of metrics into our recruitment and promotions processes in 2020.

 Research activities and achievements of the UoA
 Our research and impact strategies have driven successes across the UoA:

 1) Structural & Chemical Biology (Carr, De Biasio, Dominguez, Eperon, Fox, Gooptu,
 Moody, O'Hare, Panne, Revyakin, Roversi, Schalch, Schmid, Schwabe, Vuister, Wallis).
 Institutional investment in this grouping, as LISCB (including six PIs submitted to UoA8), has
 supported outstanding research and impact. The group abundantly achieved its REF2014 goals,
 winning a £4.3M grant (2017) to establish a state-of-the-art Regional Cryo-Electron Microscopy
 Facility, and ~£1M to upgrade its biological NMR Facility. A further goal was to expand
 translational structural biology, exemplified by a mature partnership with UCB and LifeArc to
 develop therapeutic antibodies (ICS1; Carr).


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A core aim is to understand the structures and mechanisms of macromolecular complexes
 playing key roles in biological processes, including the regulation of post-translational
 modifications of chromatin, the selection of alternative pre-mRNA splicing, DNA replication,
 apoptosis, complement activation and ion channel formation. A second aim is to leverage
 fundamental discoveries to aid structure-based drug discovery and design; these include
 collaborations with chemists embedded within LISCB – e.g. developing PROTACs (Proteolysis
 Targeting Chimeras) to knock down specific proteins, including large gene-regulatory complexes
 (Hodgkinson, UoA8). Single-molecule techniques are used to investigate biological processes
 including transcription initiation and splicing complex assembly (Eperon, Nucleic Acids Res
 2018). These dynamic approaches reveal the stoichiometry of protein assemblies,
 complementing the static views provided by other LISCB methodologies. Over the next 5 years,
 LISCB will use its expertise and facilities to further catalyse the development of research
 impacting human health, by building on partnerships with respiratory and cardiovascular
 researchers within the Leicester Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) and cancer researchers
 within the CRUK Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre (ECMC).

 Research highlights include: Ground-breaking structures of protein complexes regulating
 acetylation of histones to modulate gene expression (e.g. Panne, Nature Chem Biol 2018 and
 Molecular Cell 2017); First structure of a key protein for reverse cholesterol transport (Schwabe,
 Cell 2018); Structures of STAR proteins controlling splice-site selection (Dominguez, Nature
 Commun 2017); Mechanism of heme peroxidase via neutron cryo-crystallography (Moody,
 Science 2014 and Nature Commun 2018); Structure of the DNA polymerase delta holoenzyme
 (De Biasio, Nature Commun 2020); Dynamics of the transcription cycle via single-molecule
 analysis (Revyakin, eLife 2014; Genes Devel 2016).

 2) Microbiology & Infectious Disease (Bayliss, Clokie, Galyov, Ketley, Millard, Morrissey,
 Mukamolova, Oggioni, Pashley, Yesilkaya). Institutional investment nurtured this research
 grouping, in the form of LeMID, the Leicester Microbial Sciences & Infectious Diseases
 Centre, established in 2017 (including six clinically-focused PIs in UoA1). It integrates microbial
 and infectious disease research across UoL and the NHS Trust, to drive basic, clinical, and
 translational research, and to promote enterprise in drug development, and diagnostic &
 treatment protocols. Aims are to understand transmission and pathogenicity of human and
 animal pathogens, including the role of host immunity and the environment, and to develop novel
 interventions and diagnostics, including innovative use of bacteriophages.

 A major research theme is host-microbe interactions and pathogen transmission. This
 includes understanding host immunity to define interventions for infection prevention and
 vaccine optimisation; genomic analysis of hosts and microbes to define markers for host
 susceptibility, severity of infection, or success of treatment or prevention systems; and
 mathematical modelling of infection dynamics (Bayliss) and host-pathogen interactions. There is
 particular strength in studying Mycobacterium tuberculosis (O’Hare; Mukamolova) and S.
 pneumoniae, (Morrissey; Oggioni; Yesilkaya) including the role of bacterial physiology and
 genetics in disease, and the investigation of environmental effects. Another key theme is
 understanding the ecology and molecular biology of bacteriophages (Millard; Clokie), both
 in bacterial pathogens and environmentally important bacteria. Projects include isolating phages
 targeting Borrelia, the causative agent of Lyme disease (Phelix-funded; £470k), and developing
 phages to treat respiratory infections (Pseudomonas, Burkholderia and Haemophilus), as well as
 Salmonella (Innovate UK/BBSRC-funded; £105k). Over the next 5 years this grouping will
 strengthen its local and national clinical links, build impact in the area of phage therapies, and


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 work in interdisciplinary partnerships to investigate the influence of environmental change,
 including pollution, on bacterial behaviour and infection.

 Research highlights: Demonstration that pneumococcal virulence is regulated by a random six-
 phase switch influencing genome-wide epigenetic changes, including collaboration with UoL
 mathematicians (Oggioni, Nature Commun 2014); Interdisciplinary work with the Leicester
 Centre for Environmental Health and Sustainability demonstrating that air pollution impacts
 bacterial behaviour and potentiates infection (Ketley, Env Microbiol 2017); Identification of a set
 of phages targeting Clostridium difficile, currently being developed as therapeutic agents
 (Millard, Antibiotics 2018); industry-funded by AmpliPhi; £198k).

 3) Cell Biology and Gene Regulation (Amrani, Brindle, Challiss, Chen, Cowley, Fry,
 Goodall, Jones, Kyriacou, Macip, Mahaut-Smith, Mitcheson, Pullar, Rufini, Shackleton,
 Storey, Tanaka, Twell, Webb, Willets, Ye). This grouping investigates molecular mechanisms
 of cellular regulation including gene expression, the cytoskeleton, ion channels, protein kinases
 and cell division. It includes researchers in functional genomics, studying genes highlighted in
 genome-wide association studies that play key roles in pathways affecting cardiovascular and
 respiratory disease (e.g. Jones, Circulation 2019; Chen, PLoS Genet 2016). Long-standing
 research on circadian biology links to neurobiologists submitted within UoA4 and led to award of
 two successive EU-funded international doctoral programmes, INSECTime (2014-18; Kyriacou;
 €4M) and CINCHRON (2018-22; Kyriacou; €4M). Much of this research exploits excellent core
 advanced imaging facilities, is of pharmaceutical interest, and aligns with the strategic priorities
 of LISCB and LPMI. Over the next 5 years, this grouping will strengthen its collaborations with
 Leicester’s cardiovascular and respiratory scientists and clinicians, and build on long-term
 strengths by investigating the interactions between circadian biology and environmental change.

 Research highlights: Role of a long noncoding RNA in mitigating atherosclerosis by regulating
 an actin-binding protein (Chen, J Clin Invest 2019); Pathogenicity of muscular dystrophy-
 associated variants explained by their disruption of nuclear-cytoskeletal connections and
 myonuclear organisation (Shackleton, PLoS Genet 2014); Establishing heme as a potassium
 channel regulator (Storey, PNAS 2017); Roles of transcriptional repressors in male germ-cell
 division and sperm viability in Arabidopsis (Twell, Plant Cell 2014), and of transcription factors in
 mouse spermatogenesis (Rufini, PNAS 2014); Importance of the chromatin modifiers Histone
 deacetylase 1 and 2 for accurate cell division and pluripotency of embryonic stem cells (Cowley,
 PNAS 2014).

 4) Genome Diversity & Dynamics (Beleza, Codd, Dalgleish, Dubrova, Guttery, Heslop-
 Harrison, Higgins, Hollox, Jobling, King, Louis, Mallon, May, Royle, Talbot, Tufarelli). This
 grouping is united by an interest in the sequence variation within genomes, from fungi to plants
 and animals (including humans), how this variation arises, and its phenotypic and pathological
 consequences. Research into the genetic diversity of yeasts, as natural variation and in fine-
 grained quantitative analysis of complex traits in crosses, contributed to the EU-funded
 YEASTDOC doctoral programme (co-director Louis). Research in higher plants addresses
 genome sequences, and the regulation of recombination, important in diversity of crops including
 wheat and barley, supporting collaborations with crop-breeding companies (e.g. KWS UK Ltd.,
 Higgins iCASE). Another major theme is the analysis of human somatic and germline genetic
 variation influencing cancer risk, including factors affecting telomere stability, and the influence
 of telomere length on health (£2M MRC-funded UK Biobank study; Codd with Samani, UoA1).
 Analysis of normal human genetic variation has illuminated human phenotypes including
 pigmentation (Beleza) and dietary adaptation (Hollox), and population processes such as

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 migration and sex-biased admixture. Studying genetic diversity in both human and animal
 populations finds translational applications in forensics. This is embodied in the Alec Jeffreys
 Forensic Genomics Unit and includes work that underlies two impact case studies (ICS3, ICS4).
 Over the next 5 years this grouping will build on its work on human genome variation and
 disease susceptibility, including collaborations with members of LPMI, and use its work on model
 and non-model organisms as a platform for innovative funding applications in the area of global
 challenges and industrial partnerships.

 Research highlights include: Characterisation of functional genetic variation from natural yeast
 genomes (Louis, Mol Biol Evol 2014); Demonstration that variants near TERT and TERC
 influencing telomere length are associated with high-grade glioma risk (Codd, Nature Genet
 2014); Interdisciplinary work identifying the remains of King Richard III, garnering global
 attention (King, Nature Commun 2014; ICS4); Work marrying basic circadian biology
 (Kyriacou) with patient-centred work on radiotoxicity (Talbot) showing that variants in circadian
 rhythm genes influence side-effects in breast cancer radiotherapy (Johnson 2019 Clin Oncol).

 In conclusion: We will consolidate and extend the links between fundamental research in
 Biological Sciences and Leicester’s translational and clinical strengths in cancer, cardiovascular
 and respiratory science, and infectious disease. We will build on our strong interdisciplinary
 connections with the physical and social sciences, and our successes in meeting global
 challenges in food security, health, and a secure world, and in partnering across this broad
 range with industry. We will continue to support innovation and collaboration among established
 investigators, and to nurture the next generation, on a secure foundation of improving equipment
 and infrastructure.


 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 The University aims to attract the very best Biological Sciences researchers and to nurture their
 development at every stage of their careers. Within the Unit, the overall strategy is to: (i) recruit
 academic staff who have the highest potential to achieve excellence in research and strengthen
 priority areas; and (ii) support new and existing staff to realise their maximum potential, through
 individual mentoring, incentivisation, training and team working. We attract new staff and retain
 them by highlighting our focused research strengths, developing the quality of our physical
 environment and research culture, investing in facilities and research centres, and embracing
 EDI.

 Recruitment strategy
 In recruiting staff, the Unit has attracted established and internationally recognised researchers
 to strengthen specific areas, mid-career investigators to bring new skills, and ECRs to support
 career development using our WTISSF ECR scheme and other sources (e.g. Royal Society,
 WT, Daphne Jackson).

 • Strengthening specific research areas: Major institutional investment has occurred in our
 Structural and Chemical Biology grouping driven by LISCB. Panne, who studies the structural
 biology of signal transduction and epigenetic gene regulation, was recruited from EMBL
 Grenoble, while Schalch brought his research on the 3D organisation of chromatin from the
 University of Geneva. Recruited from Elettra-Sincrotrone Trieste, De Biasio brought expertise in


                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the architecture and function of DNA replication and repair machinery. The excellent
 international connections of these investigators provide a platform to facilitate collaborations that
 support future impact as well as research. Other strategic appointments include Millard, within
 our Microbiology and Infectious Disease grouping, recruited from Warwick as a lecturer (now
 Associate Professor). He brings important expertise in bioinformatics and metagenomics, and
 his research programme strengthens the phage biology theme. Chen joined us in 2020, adding
 strength to the behavioural genetics research of Kyriacou and other colleagues returned in
 UoA4 (Giorgini, Rosato).

 • Supporting ECRs as fellows: The Structural and Chemical Biology grouping was enriched by
 recruitment of two Leicester WTISSF (2-year) fellows, Fox and Roversi, the latter recently being
 appointed to a permanent lectureship post. Tufarelli won a 4-year WT Career Re-entry
 Fellowship (£450k), sponsored and mentored by Goodall and UoA1 cancer researchers. She
 studies the mechanisms and implications of L1 element reactivation in colorectal cancer, linking
 basic cancer biology with clinical work on biomarkers.

 • Recognising technicians: UoL is a founding signatory (2017) of the Technician Commitment,
 a Science Council initiative. This recognises that technical staff are fundamental to university life,
 and provides a programme to increase the visibility of our technical workforce, to celebrate their
 excellence and to support career development. It includes a Technical Skills Placement
 Programme allowing technicians to develop new skills in other institutions, and the annual UK
 HE Technicians Summit, at which our own Lory Francescut won a prestigious Papin Technician
 prize (2019) for her work supporting PIs including Mahaut-Smith, Storey, Mitcheson and
 Brindle.

 • Demographic staff profile: Our submitted staff are 27% female (the same as REF2014), but
 our proportion of female professorial staff has increased from zero to 35%, reflecting a College-
 wide increase from 18 (2014) to 32 female professors (2020). Our PIs fall into the following age
 bands: 30-44 years: 19.4%; 45-60: 64.5%; >60: 16.1%; we recognise that this is top-heavy and
 are recruiting outstanding ECRs into areas of institutional investment and strength to ensure
 succession.

 • EDI in recruitment and retention: An equal, diverse and inclusive environment is key to
 attracting, recruiting, developing and retaining excellent staff. The recent Athena SWAN Silver
 Award to the College of Life Sciences, and previous awards to individual departments,
 demonstrate our commitment to improving our culture. 93% of female academic staff feel that
 our recruitment processes are fair. Leicester is a culturally diverse city (51% BAME) and we
 ensure that we monitor and reflect gender and ethnic diversity in all recruitment and publicity
 materials.

 Staff development and retention
 Development and progress are key to retaining staff and creating a vital and sustainable
 research culture. The Unit contains good examples of PIs whose careers have developed in
 Leicester thanks to supportive mentoring: Bayliss was a new RCUK Fellow in 2007, and in 2020
 has become a Professor; King enrolled as a PhD student in 2000 and via post-doc and lecturer
 positions is now the University’s first Professor of Public Engagement; Guttery did a PhD and
 post-doc at UoL, and in 2017 was appointed as Lecturer in Cancer Early Detection; Codd did
 her PhD with Kyriacou and progressed (2020) to Associate Professor in Cardiovascular
 Sciences. Such development and retention of excellent researchers illustrates the sustainability
 of our environment.

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 • Mentoring, probation, and appraisal: Within the College of Life Sciences there is a well-
 established mentoring system, forming a central part of the University’s implementation of the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, and Departmental and College
 Athena Swan action plans. Newly appointed academic staff have a mentor who facilitates
 professional growth by advising on research plans, development of grant applications and
 publications, and broader aspects of career development, including learning new skills, attending
 courses, promotion, engaging in cross-disciplinary research, enterprise, and impact. During their
 three-year probationary period they receive clear guidance on the expectations for their duties,
 responsibilities and level of performance, and regular feedback. Appraisal is managed via
 annual PDDs linked to career progression, which is guided by the Career Map recognising
 contributions to citizenship and leadership as well as to research, teaching and enterprise. The
 PDD emphasises agreed goals and identifies the support needed to achieve SMART objectives,
 ensuring that all staff receive advice on how to succeed as researchers and on career
 progression and promotion. It provides an opportunity to discuss promotion planning, and to
 examine any barriers that might exist for particular individuals. 37% of our submitted academic
 staff have been promoted during the REF period.

 • Training, networking, and professional development opportunities are available to all PIs,
 both within the institution and externally (IES, 3.2). Examples are the Aurora programme aimed
 at female leaders (University-supported), and BAME Leadership courses (WTISSF-supported).
 Morrissey, who joined UoL in 2000 as a lecturer and is now a Professor and co-director of
 LeMID, benefited from the University’s Future Leaders course.

 • Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers: In 2020 the University
 retained its HR Excellence in Research Award following the eight-year review. This recognises
 the implementation of the principles of the Concordat, and its retention demonstrates our long-
 term commitment to these. Implementation of Concordat strategy is overseen by the ECR and
 Research Staff Career Enhancement sub-committee and supported by the Post-Doctoral
 Research Staff Association.

 Research Students
 Postgraduate Research Students (PGRs) are an essential part of our community, and we are
 committed to ensuring they receive excellent support and training. The University’s Doctoral
 College launched in 2017 to replace the previous Graduate School, with a wider remit extending
 across the full early-stage career journey to promote seamless transition between stages. It
 covers 2200 PGRs, 439 research staff and 932 early career academic staff, and aims to develop
 rigorous and intrepid researchers, with world-class capabilities in the leadership, execution and
 communication of research, prepared for both academic and non-academic careers. The
 Doctoral College is overseen by the Postgraduate Research Policy Committee, which promotes
 best practice in all aspects of the University’s PGR provision.

 PGR positions are advertised via open-access online platforms including FindAPhD.com.
 Applicants must be suitably qualified and hold a 2:1 or first-class UK Bachelor’s degree, or
 equivalent, in a relevant discipline. Non-native English speakers may either have been educated
 in English or hold an IELTS score of ≥6.5. Specific multi-institutional DTPs have their own
 rigorous procedures for student selection. All applicants are formally interviewed before
 acceptance.



                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 • Our PGR graduates: A total of 340 PhDs graduated from UoA5 during this REF period (Figure
 2). We are proud of the diversity of this cohort, which has an even gender split, and
 encompasses 47 nationalities (32% are British, of whom 27% are BAME—compared to UK
 average of 17% [HESA data 2017-18]). We support our international students via the English
 Language Training Unit, which provides pre-sessional training, allowing students to improve their
 skills before beginning their studies, and courses in English skills, academic writing, and giving
 research presentations throughout their PhD.




 Students within UoA5 are supported by a rich range of DTPs from major funding bodies (all with
 matched university funding), institutionally supported positions, and studentships from overseas
 agencies and other sources:

 • BBSRC (31 UoA5 graduates): the Midlands Integrative Biosciences Training Partnership
 (MIBTP) delivers innovative research training across the life sciences to boost the growing
 bioeconomy. Initially supported from 2015-19, the programme was renewed as MIBTP2020,
 including the Universities of Leicester, Warwick, Birmingham, Aston and Harper Adams (total
 £20M), supporting 52 x 4-yr studentships annually. The Unit’s BBSRC-funded students currently
 include 9 iCASE awards (Section 4).

 • MRC (20): IMPACT (Integrated Midlands Partnership for Biomedical Training; £3.5M) supports
 14 students annually between the Universities of Leicester, Birmingham, and Nottingham.
 Research projects focus on the theme of Complex Disease, allowing students to benefit from a
 diverse range of projects and skills, stimulating them to perform innovative, world-leading
 research.

 • NERC (2): the Central England NERC Training Alliance (CENTA) is a consortium of research-
 intensive Universities and institutes including Leicester, first funded in 2013, and renewed in
 2019 (CENTA2; £4.9M; 24 students/year). The programme includes an Organisms theme, and
 UoA5 PhD students working on genomic imprinting in social insects (Mallon), and great-ape
 conservation genomics.




                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 • Wellcome Trust (£5.15M; 8 students/year): the Genetic Epidemiology & Public Health
 Genomics Programme is a new (2020) DTP, allowing students to focus on key public health
 research needs, including improved healthcare through genetically-driven methods; ensuring
 equal representation of minority groups in research; and advancing the benefits of genomics for
 hard-to-reach and deprived communities. To broaden access, UoL provides fee waivers for up to
 10 trainees from low-to-middle-income countries.

 • EU Initial Training Networks (ITNs; 36 students total): UoA5 PIs are key players in the award of
 five ITNs, INSECTime (2014; Kyriacou; €4M), CINCHRON (Comparative INsect
 CHRONobiology; 2018; Kyriacou; €4M), YEASTDOC (Training Programme in Yeast
 Biotechnology; 2017; Louis; €3.1M); MEICOM (Meiotic Control of Recombination in Crops;
 2018; Higgins; €3.1M); and NR-NET (Control of metabolic and inflammatory pathways by
 nuclear receptors; 2013; Schwabe; €4M). A sixth Leicester ITN, INTREPID Forensics
 (Interdisciplinary Training and Research Programme for Innovative Doctorates in Forensic
 Science; 2014; €2.9M) supported a UoA5 student during the REF period.

 • Other UK funders: studentships include funding from the Royal Society, HDR UK, British Lung
 Foundation, British Heart Foundation, and the local charity Hope against Cancer.

 • Internal funding: internal funds have supported 40 students in the current REF period for new
 PIs and to strengthen strategic areas; for example, LISCB and LPMI studentships are jointly
 funded by the College of Life Sciences.

 • Remaining students are funded via a mix of overseas government/university sponsorship
 and self-funded studentships.

 • Monitoring and support of student progress is overseen by the Doctoral College. The
 online system MyPGR (2019; replacing a previous system) is used to monitor and record formal
 monthly supervisory meetings, and objectives and milestones as the project proceeds. There is
 academic and pastoral support more locally in the form of Departmental Postgraduate Research
 tutors.

 Each PGR student is initially registered for a one-year probation as an Advanced Postgraduate.
 All students have at least two supervisors, and an independent progress review panel (PRP)
 comprising two academics. Students and supervisors meet at least monthly and record their
 meetings through MyPGR. An early meeting introduces the student to their PRP, and provides a
 project viability check. After 9 months, the student submits a report including a literature review,
 meets their PRP and gives a seminar during one of the regular postgraduate research days.
 This is an important decision point where the PRP recommends either progression to a PhD
 degree, revision and resubmission of the research proposal, or termination of studies. Students
 must complete research within 3 years of registration and submit their thesis within 4 years. In
 REF2014, UoA5 had 3.1FTE completed PGRs/FTE over a 5-year period, compared to a sector
 average of 2.5/FTE. For the most recent 5-year period for REF2021 the figure is 4.3/FTE,
 demonstrating a clear increase (Figure 2). Overall satisfaction with their PhD course has
 improved from 79.6% (2015 PRES data) to 85.8% (2019), compared to a sector average of
 81.6%.

 • PGR training: DTPs have their own specialised training programmes, but all students benefit
 from a broad range of training delivered at Leicester and partner organisations. The programme
 is based on the skills and experience that UKRI expects PGRs to develop during their research

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 degree, guided by Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework. Elements include: research
 ethics and integrity, research effectiveness (including literature searching, working with big data,
 visualising data, and using bibliographic software and FigShare), academic writing, quantitative
 methods (e.g. R, SPSS), designing and measuring impact, and media skills. Specific research
 training (based on a training needs analysis) is reviewed in supervisory meetings and annual
 reviews, and recorded using MyPGR.

 Our UKRI-funded DTPs are collaborative with other institutions and industrial partners, and
 students benefit from cohort-based training and ‘masterclasses’, based at UoL or with a partner.
 iCASE students benefit from training with their industrial sponsors.
 As well as drawing on their research training support grants to attend courses and conferences,
 PGR students are encouraged to join national and international scientific societies (e.g. Genetics
 Society; Biochemical Society), and apply for grants for training, research visits and conference
 attendance.

 The Doctoral College provides excellent opportunities for PGR students to showcase their
 research, engage with the public, and network. These include Pint of Science and PubhD; Cafe
 Research; Three-minute thesis presentations; Doctoral inaugural lectures for prize-winning
 theses (e.g. Tunde Huszar (Jobling) won a prize, and contributed to work in ICS3); the annual
 Images of Research exhibition; and the Festival of Postgraduate Research, where a set of the
 University’s best students, selected competitively, present their cutting-edge research to
 academics, employers, and the public. Our students regularly enter the national BBSRC
 Biotechnology YES competition, with UoA5-based teams winning in both 2014 and 2018.
 The Careers Development office provides advice on career planning, preparing job applications
 and CVs, and personal development, as well as career events focused on particular subject
 areas within and outside academia, and advertises internships and work experience
 opportunities. The new WT-funded DTP provides flexible funding for up to a year post-PhD, to
 support students in their next career steps.

 Recognising the disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, UoL provided additional financial
 support for PGR students totalling £272k in funded extensions, fee waivers and hardship funds.

 • PGR integration into the research community: Each PGR student is embedded within a
 research group, and participates in group meetings, journal clubs and public engagement
 events. They attend Departmental, College and University seminars, and over their PhD career
 give talks and posters at PGR research days which PIs and post-docs also attend.
 The quality of our PGR cohort is reflected in excellent submitted REF outputs that include PhD
 students among their authors (34%; 17% first author). We are proud of student successes, e.g.:

 • Cecilia Casadei (Moody: Science 2014 and Nature Commun 2016), was supported by an
 Institut Laue-Langevin (ILL) studentship and won a College prize and a place to present at the
 65th Lindau Nobel Conference. She is now a PDRA at ETH, Zurich.

 • Carika Weldon (Dominguez: Nature Chem Biol 2017 and Nucleic Acids Res 2018) gained a
 lectureship at De Montfort University and is now a scientist at the Wellcome Trust Centre for
 Human Genetics in Oxford. She created and leads the Bermuda Principles Foundation to
 promote science in her native country.




                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 • Kerstie Johnson (Talbot) won the Frank Ellis Medal from the Royal College of Radiologists for
 Johnson Clin Oncol 2019, and is now a Consultant in Clinical Oncology at Nottingham University
 Hospitals.

 Equality and Diversity
 EDI is embedded in the University’s Strategic Plan and is central to the vision of our VC, Nishan
 Canagarajah (appointed 2019). A University-wide culture of inclusion encompasses all aspects
 of our activity and business (IES, 3.1). EDI staff fora (e.g. BAME, LGBT, Disability, Women’s,
 Senior Women’s and World Faith Groups) welcome and include our staff, and a number of
 features of the institution make it an attractive place for a diverse workforce—these include
 HeforShe status (the UN’s solidarity campaign for gender equality, involving only ten universities
 worldwide), Race Equality Charter signatory, Top 50 Stonewall employer, and University of
 Sanctuary award. In 2018, the University gained an Institutional Silver Athena SWAN award,
 followed by a successful application for Silver from the College of Life Sciences in 2020. There
 are Diversity Champions in every Department and regular EDI-focused seminars and
 workshops. There is transparent reporting of the institutional gender pay gap and a clear action
 plan to address this.

 Three of our female professors (Clokie, Goodall, King) have featured as part of the University’s
 Inspiring Women campaign, presenting strong female role models to students and staff. Both
 Clokie and King were 2019 guests on BBC Radio 4’s The Life Scientific, discussing their
 careers and their research, and Clokie featured on the same station’s Infinite Monkey Cage in
 2018.

 There is mandatory online training for all academic and post-doctoral staff in EDI and in
 Challenging Unconscious Bias; this must be refreshed every three years and is followed up at
 PDDs. Staff contributions to improving EDI are recognised and celebrated—the University’s
 annual Discovering Excellence Awards includes one for equality champion.

 Our WTISSF award provided a springboard to develop and apply EDI principles across its
 schemes that have been adopted elsewhere, e.g. by the new WT-funded DTP. These ensure
 transparent and fair processes that include: clear, consistent, published guidelines and
 processes for funding and recruitment decisions; consistent explicit consideration given to
 gender balance and where feasible BAME membership of all assessment, shortlisting and
 interview panels; and diversity monitoring of awards. Valuable input into our processes has
 come from the Leicester Centre for BME Health and criteria for all schemes are scrutinised to
 confirm adherence to our EDI principles. ECR fellowship candidates are scored in both
 shortlisting and at interview using detailed rubrics (to further safeguard against unconscious
 bias). We ensure all of our application deadlines and meetings are compatible with school term
 times. Applicants are invited to detail career breaks, or other relevant personal circumstances, in
 applying so that they can be taken account of in the selection process.

 We strive for transparency in promotion procedures, which is helped by our PDD system.
 Workload models are adjusted to take account of fractional contracts.
 The Unit benefits from a set of clear University-level policies, including:

 • Flexible working: to support staff with care responsibilities, ill-health or disability, or who are
 engaged in further education or training, pursuing other interests or activities, or working towards
 retirement. This includes job sharing and compressed hours, working from home and tele-
 working.

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 • Maternity and adoption leave: meeting the statutory entitlement for staff to take 52 weeks leave
 regardless of gender or length of service. Research may suffer during such leave, so the
 University provides funded support for the duration: ‘Having someone cover for my role while I
 was on maternity leave and having a period of handover when I returned really helped. They
 were so organised and dedicated to the role when I was off so I didn't return to a big mess!’
 (Female researcher).

 • Menopause transition: Leicester was the first university to launch a menopause policy (2017),
 and holds regular Menopause Cafés for informal conversation and support.

 • Parental leave: entitling staff to take up to a total of 4 months’ unpaid leave for children under
 the age of 5 or, in the case of a child under the age of 18 who is receiving disability living
 allowance, 18 weeks’ unpaid leave.

 • Dignity at Work code of practice: to ensure that all staff are treated with dignity irrespective of
 age, disability, gender or gender reassignment, marriage or civil partnership, race, religion or
 belief, sex, or sexual orientation.

 • A zero-tolerance policy for bullying and harassment, victimisation of those who allege bullying
 and harassment in good faith, or the failure to support someone in making such a complaint.

 • A Carer Conference/Travel fund to cover caring fees while attending conferences and study
 days.

 • A back-to-work meeting for staff returning from periods of leave (including parental leave) held
 with their line manager to address how best to facilitate their return to work.

 • Study leave entitlement, in which all staff can apply for one semester of leave every seventh
 semester. Requests are considered at departmental level to ensure consistency and fairness,
 and supported requests are forwarded to the College Study Leave Committee.

 The University places great importance on staff wellbeing, providing information on dealing with
 work-related stress, managing mental health problems, and managing physical discomfort, back
 pain, sleep problems and sedentary working. Managers take steps to mitigate against workplace
 stress, and to liaise with staff experiencing stress to make reasonable adjustments to working
 environment and workload, and refer them for an occupational health assessment where
 necessary.

 PGR student wellbeing is supported via the Student Health and Wellbeing Team, and
 Headspace, the mental health drop-in in the Students’ Union, and by training students as Mental
 Health First Aiders and Wellbeing Champions to support their peers.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income
 The Unit’s research income over the REF period was £58.3M (£138k/FTE/year). Unsurprisingly,
 this mean value is lower in an all-in REF than for the selective REF2014 (£164k), but the trend is


                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 upward. Funding came from a wide range of sources including UKRI (BBSRC, MRC, EPSRC,
 NERC), the European Commission, major charities (e.g. Wellcome Trust, BHF, CRUK,
 Leverhulme Trust), smaller charities (e.g. Hope Against Cancer, Asthma UK, Meningitis
 Research Foundation), and industry based in the UK and overseas.
 Research staff are supported to generate high-quality grant applications via a range of
 mechanisms aiming to promote a sustainable and vital research environment:

 • Annual PDDs include a discussion of grant applications during the past year and their
 outcomes, and agree future targets.

 • Departments and Institutes support regular grant development meetings where PIs present
 ideas to colleagues for feedback and creative input. Regular targeted emails inform PIs about
 grant opportunities and deadlines.




 • The College Research & Enterprise Committee, chaired by the College Dean of Research
 (DoR, Fry 2014-2020), oversees strategy within the Unit and sets key performance indicators,
 including targets for applications and awards, reviewed annually. The DoR reports directly to
 both the College Leadership Team and institutional Research & Enterprise Committees.

 • The institutional Research & Enterprise Division (RED) team (IES, 4.1) supports bids and
 sends regular alerts about funding opportunities to PIs.

 • At University level, key funder working groups for each of the research councils, plus the
 Wellcome Trust, Leverhulme Trust, Innovate and NIHR, build relationships with funders,
 publicise funding schemes, review applications and provide mock interviews for fellowship
 candidates. Professional staff within RED support grant writing, costing, MTAs and collaboration
 agreements. GCRF grant-holders are brought together for networking sessions to share
 expertise, and this is disseminated to the wider community, with PIs supported via internal
 schemes to co-develop projects with international partners.

 • Our WTISSF scheme leverages further grant income; for example, a WTISSF ECR fellow,
 Roversi, was supported in a successful WT Seed Award application, and another, Jo Purves, is
 now a researcher-coinvestigator on Morrissey’s £441k BBSRC award.


                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 • As mentioned in Section 1, there are diverse internal funding sources (Figure 3), and funding to
 UoA5 over the REF period totalled £6.7M. Individual awards can be small sums, but they
 leverage collaborations, larger external awards, and impact. As examples:

 • Interdisciplinary work to find novel solutions to collect evidence following sexual violence in
 low-resource environments began with a 2015 £10k Prospects award to Jobling and Lisa Smith
 (Criminology), leading to a publication and external £50k Humanitarian Innovation Fund grant.
 Kenya was suited to implementation, so a UoL International Research Development award (£9k;
 2018) was used to bring an academic from Kenyatta University to Leicester, supporting Kenyan
 DNA sampling. The University Research Infrastructure Fund then allowed purchase (£177k) of a
 new ABI3500xl Genetic Analyzer, permitting high-resolution genotyping by a visiting Kenyan
 PhD student, thus establishing reference DNA profile databases to underpin Kenya’s criminal
 justice system. This work contributed to a 2018 national THE award, a 2019 philanthropic award
 (£450k) from Ring of Peace, and an impact case study (ICS3).

 • Clokie has used internal funds to pump-prime work to progress bacteriophage products from
 the laboratory bench to commercial applications in animal, human and plant health, together with
 industrial partners. Grants from our internal MRC Confidence in Concept scheme (£43k and
 £51k; 2016 and 2018) supported work on a novel phage-based diagnostic test for Lyme disease
 allowing a patent to be filed (2017) for a test currently undergoing a full commercial trial with a
 European diagnostic company. A 2017 Proof of Concept Fund Award of £15k to support a
 project on Salmonella phages led to a 2018 patent, and a £264k partnership with ABAgri, a
 multi-national subsidiary of Associated British Foods, to develop animal feed that contains
 phages to prevent Salmonella entering the human food chain. This vital work on phages will
 form the basis of an impact case in a future REF.

 • Development of VariantValidator (Dalgleish), software that improves the accuracy and
 precision diagnosis of genetic disorders, benefited from three awards from our internal MRC
 Proximity to Discovery fund (total £12k), as well as a WTISSF fellowship to Peter Freeman
 (Freeman, Hum Mutat 2018) and forms the basis of an impact case study (ICS2).

 The collegial approaches we have in place to support development of funding applications
 contribute to the vitality and sustainability of research income. Our growing income from
 commercial and international sources over the REF period demonstrates that the Unit is agile
 and flexible in its approach to seeking funding. The willingness of colleagues to engage in
 interdisciplinary working, nurtured by LIAS and institutional funding sources, also promises
 access to wider sources of support in the future.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 The Unit benefits from high-quality clinical and basic infrastructure. Leicester Academic Health
 Partners embodies the close relationship between the University Hospitals of Leicester NHS
 Trust, Leicestershire Partnership NHS Trust and UoL. This harnesses our collective clinical and
 academic excellence to accelerate the transmission of cutting-edge research into healthcare
 innovations to improve the health and well-being of the people of Leicester, Leicestershire and
 Rutland (LLR). The prestigious award of an NIHR Biomedical Research Centre (BRC), with an
 £11.6M (2017) grant supporting Cardiovascular, Respiratory and Lifestyle themes in a
 partnership between UoL, Leicester’s Hospitals, and Loughborough University, has
 strengthened links between lab and clinic. As part of the BRC, the Institute for Lung Health
 (including Amrani, Carr, Challiss, Gooptu, Hollox, Morrissey, Mukamolova, Oggioni,
 O’Hare, Pashley, Wallis, Yesilkaya) underpins ICS5 (Andrew Wardlaw), which describes the

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoL/GSK collaboration resulting in the development, licensing and widespread use of a first-in-
 kind monoclonal antibody, mepolizumab (Nucala™), which prevents severe asthma
 exacerbations.

 The £42M George Davies Centre (2016), the UK’s largest non-residential Passivhaus building,
 provided a new home for the Medical School and non-lab-based researchers and allowed a
 reorganisation of space. Investment in bioinformatics has continued with the ongoing activity of
 the Bioinformatics and Biostatistics Support Hub (BBASH), now part of a higher-level
 alliance BINERI (Biomedical Informatics Network for Education, Research and Industry), which
 unifies training, big data analysis, biobanking, ethics, governance, and information technology.
 UoL now co-leads the Midlands Substantive Site for the Health Data Research UK Institute.

 As described in Section 1, external funding and internal investment allowed the creation of
 LISCB; its world-class facilities are supported by specialised and skilled managers and include:

 • Midlands Regional Cryo Electron Microscopy facility: FEI Titan Krios with K3 and Falcon 3
 cameras, Phase Plate; full-time facility manager (Christos Savva). The facility, one of only six
 cryoEM locations in the UK, has already brought in >£1.7M of research grants that will use this
 facility, and international (Spain; USA) and industrial (e.g. Sanofi, Evotec, Casma, Vernalis,
 Omass Theurapeutics) users. Excellent supported research outputs include: Cowley, Nature
 Commun 2020; Lancey Nature Commun 2020; Song Cell Rep 2020.

 • High Performance Image Processing cluster: 6 x Compute nodes each with 4 GPUs and 20
 CPU cores; 4 x Management nodes; 6 x Storage nodes with 800TB storage as a distributed file
 system (57Gb Infiniband); full-time facility manager (TJ Ragan); Skinner, J Biomol NMR 2016.

 • NMR Facility: 800MHz spectrometer with liquid state cryo-probe and solid-state probe; Two
 600MHz spectrometers with cryo-probes; 500MHz spectrometer; facility manager Fred Muskett.
 This facility is crucial to a long-standing industrial partnership between Carr, UCB and LifeArc
 underpinning an impact case study (ICS1) and outputs including Carr, PNAS 2020.

 • X-ray Facility: 5 x crystallisation robots; dedicated crystallisation rooms; in-house X-ray set
 Rigaku 007HF with CCD detector. Schwabe Cell 2018 etc.

 • Biophysics Facility: CD machine; 2 x ITC machines; Octet; Caliper; Stop-Flow: 0.6FTE
 Facility manager (Jaswir Basran). Outputs include: Moody, Science 2014; Kwon Nature
 Commun 2016; Moody, Storey, Nature Commun 2018; Freeman PNAS 2019.

 The Unit benefits from additional facilities and infrastructure under the umbrella of Core
 Biotechnology Services (CBS):

 • The Advanced Imaging Facility, managed full-time by a specialist (Kees Straatman), offers
 confocal and conventional fluorescence microscopes and image analysis resources; recent
 (2019) acquisitions are a fully automated, label-free high content screening platform, the
 Phasefocus Livecyte 2, allowing live cell imaging and automatic tracking (University funded), and
 a high-speed super-resolution confocal laser scanning microscope (Zeiss LSM 980 Airyscan2
 (£283k BBSRC; Higgins). Outputs include: Shackleton, PLoS Genet 2014; Wallis, Cell Rep
 2018; Fry Sci Signaling 2019.



                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 • The Electron Microscopy facility, supported by a full-time manager (Natalie Allcock) offers
 scanning (Hitachi S3000H) and transmission (JEOL1400) EM, plus elemental analysis (EDX),
 Correlative Light and EM (CLEM), tomography and 3D EM. Outputs include: Twell, Plant Cell
 2014; Morrissey, Env Microbiol 2017.

 • The Histology Facility provides a comprehensive range of histological techniques and gained
 4th place out of 300 participating pathology labs in the recent UK external quality assessment
 review. Supported outputs include Oggioni, Nature Microbiol 2018.

 • The FACS facility (2017) was supported by the Wellcome Trust and a philanthropic donation
 and delivers a state-of-the-art flow cytometry service. It houses a BD FACSAria Fusion cell
 sorter and three analysers—a BD FACSCanto II, a Beckman Coulter Cytoflex and a BD Accuri
 C6 Plus.

 • LeMID is supported by a Containment Level 3 Facility and the Wolfson Category 2
 Infectious Diseases Laboratory, established in 2017 with matched University funding.

 • The Pre-clinical Research facility provides access to animal models including mice, rats,
 rabbits, Xenopus and zebrafish, and is staffed by a team offering surgical services, training, and
 rodent breeding, and production of new gene-edited rodent models. Imaging equipment includes
 9.4T high-field MRI, Quantum-FX X-Ray micro-CT, Vevo 2100 high-frequency ultrasound, and
 IVIS Spectrum bioluminescence/fluorescence scanners. These are used to study disease
 models such as ischaemic stroke, myocardial infarction, atherosclerosis, T-cell lymphoma, and
 streptococcal pneumonia. Outputs include: Dubrova, Nature Commun 2015; Macip, Aging Cell
 2020.

 • The PROTEX Protein Expression Laboratory provides a high-throughput service for cloning
 vectors for protein expression in E. coli, mammalian cells, baculovirus, yeast, Drosophila,
 Xenopus and cell-free systems, and CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing. Outputs include: Millard,
 eLife 2016; Dalgleish, Nature Commun 2016.

 • NUCLEUS Genomics Facility, under a full-time manager (Nic Sylvius), includes Illumina
 MiSeq and IonTorrent PGM sequencing; ABI3500xl capillary electrophoresis; 10X Genomics
 Chromium Controller; microarray scanners; and quantitative PCR platforms. Outputs include:
 Cowley, Schwabe, PNAS 2014; Jobling, Genome Res 2016.

 • All our PIs, ECRs and PGR students have free access to the University’s ALICE2 and
 SPECTRE High Performance Computing Facilities.

 • The Unit hosts the Leicester Herbarium, one of 20 major UK herbaria, founded in 1945, and
 incorporating collections dating back to the 18 th century. It houses ~140,000 specimens,
 including reference specimens for a high proportion of the British Flora. Additional support for
 research and outreach in plant sciences comes from the 16-acre Botanic Garden, founded in
 1921.

 All these facilities are supported through central budget and staffed with expert EOs and
 technicians.




                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cross-HEI collaborative use of research infrastructure
 We collaborate closely with local Midlands universities as exemplified by our DTPs—our
 BBSRC, MRC and NERC programmes together involve the Universities of Warwick, Birmingham
 and Nottingham. PGR students in these programmes spend time in other institutions and a
 cross-fertilisation of ideas occurs as a result.

 UoL is engaged in the strategic partnership Midlands Innovation (MI), evolving from the M5
 consortium in 2016, and including Birmingham, Leicester, Loughborough, Nottingham, Warwick,
 Keele, Cranfield and Aston. MI promotes sharing of research infrastructure and equipment, its
 committee (UoL’s academic member Jones) meeting bi-monthly. This is facilitated by an online
 database including >1000 shareable items from all institutions, from electron microscopes to
 MRI machines to 3D printers.

 The Midlands Mass Spectrometry Group has built a regional community hosting seminars and
 sharing best practice to provide a platform for collaborative rather than competitive bids,
 strengthening funding applications. The Midlands Flow Cytometry Group fulfils a similar role for
 this research area, hosting the Annual Flow Cytometry Conference.

 The Midlands Cryo-EM facility provides an excellent example of a successful collaboration within
 the MI group. The Leicester facility, in the Henry Wellcome Building, is supported by an
 ecosystem of feeder microscopes at Birmingham, Nottingham and Warwick. UoL co-led a
 successful EPSRC bid to establish a regional 1GHz biological NMR instrument (housed in
 Birmingham).

 Our WTISSF includes an Institutional Partnerships scheme supporting bids from PIs or post-
 docs to link with another UK institution, e.g. to spend a research period there, learn a new
 method, or use specialised equipment. The Crick Institute is just over an hour away by train; so
 far the scheme has sponsored six Crick PIs to visit UoL to give seminars and discuss research
 collaborations and there have been six return visits to the Crick for training, seminar attendance
 and discussion of Public Engagement strategies.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration with and contribution to the research base
 We are a highly collaborative Unit that contributes significantly to national and international
 research. Of the 1090 total outputs of the members of this UoA in the current REF period, 61%
 involved collaborations outside the UK, and a further 24% involved co-authors from other UK
 institutions (for our 152 submitted outputs, respective figures are 66% and 28%).

 University funds to support collaborations are competitively available via the International
 Research Development Fund and our interdisciplinary institute LIAS, supporting Networks and
 ‘Tiger Teams’ (Section 1). Such groupings typically involve PIs across a wide range of subject
 areas plus external partners from the UK or overseas.

 Strong international partnerships are reflected in our involvement in five EU-funded ITNs (see
 Section 2), and we are involved in major international research projects:




                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Talbot was Biomarker Lead in REQUITE, an EU-funded programme studying predictive models
 and biomarkers of radiotherapy toxicity to reduce side-effects and improve quality of life in
 cancer survivors.

 Vuister leads the Collaborative Computing Project for NMR (CCPN), which links new and
 existing NMR software via a common data standard and provides a discussion forum within the
 community. CCPN began in 1999 in the UK and is now a network of 28 international partners.
 MRC support has been continuous since 2013, and comes from two MRC grants totalling
 £1.67M (Vuister, PI), recently supplemented by a new award of £1.6M.

 Dominguez’s collaboration with Frederic Allain (ETH Zurich; Nucleic Acids Res 2014) led to a
 BBSRC award (£399k to UoL). He partners with the European Lead Factory (ELF) to screen
 their compound library, bringing an in-kind contribution of £600k.

 Schwabe is a co-investigator in a $6M Leducq international network, Cellular and systemic
 cholesterol transport in physiology and disease, linking UK, USA, Switzerland, Denmark, and
 Finland and bringing $731K to UoL.

 Impact and engagement: collaboration and contribution beyond the academy
 Our engagement and impact stretches from the local to the global. Within Leicester, Fry, through
 his WTISSF leadership, has promoted engagement with Leicester City Council, leading to
 projects on air quality and health, and mental wellbeing of people with multiple chronic
 conditions. Prof Ivan Browne, Leicester’s Director of Public Health, is a member of our WTISSF
 Governance Board. TB researchers (Amrani, Mukamolova, Oggioni, O’Hare) run joint projects
 with the NHS and Public Health England in Leicester. King’s involvement with the ground-
 breaking Richard III identification project, documented in ICS4, contributed to huge local
 economic benefit, with a gross value estimated at £79M, including construction of the Richard III
 Visitor Centre, >200,000 annual heritage visits to the region, and >1000 new jobs.

 At the global level, we have engaged fully with the changing agenda around international aid and
 the GCRF. The University is ranked 37 th out of >500 institutions from 75 countries in the
 inaugural international THE University Impact Rankings, which assess universities against the
 UN Sustainable Development Goals, using indicators across research, outreach, and
 stewardship. We work with a wide range of industrial partners, and a total of £4.4M came into
 the Unit during the REF period from commercial sources, while 18 patents were filed by staff.
 The strength of the relationships is reflected in co-publications—8% of all outputs in the REF
 period include commercial collaborators as co-authors, and these have a mean FWCI of 3.06, cf
 1.63 for other outputs, underlining the research value of these links.

 We have a diverse portfolio of iCASE partners:

 • Forensic research (May, Jobling, with senior post-doc Jon Wetton) has attracted five partners:
 Key Forensic Services, one of the UK’s largest forensic service providers; Verogen, a
 company designing innovative MPS approaches for forensics; DNA Worldwide, a direct-to-
 consumer DNA testing company offering ancestry and family-searching products; Oxford
 Nanopore Technologies, inventors of ‘third-generation’ portable sequencing technologies, here
 being used to combat the illegal wildlife trade; Twycross Zoo, focused on research for rapid
 species identification to counter illegal wildlife exploitation. Wetton won a USAID Wildlife Crime
 Tech Challenge award in 2016 ($10K).


                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 • Other iCASE relationships reflect Oggioni’s expertise in bacterial genetics (Christian Hansen
 is a dairy industry company supporting a project on Lactobacillus, while GlaxoSmithKline
 supports work on pneumococcal niches within splenic macrophages); KWS UK Ltd. supports
 fundamental work on recombination in wheat, aiming to break up the long linkage groups that
 impair plant breeding (Higgins); brewing giant SABMiller supported Louis’ project to develop
 better yeast strains for beer production, then partnered in a successful collaborative £1M
 BBSRC project (2014; Leicester, Nottingham, Manchester), bringing £400k to UoL; the Defence
 Science and Technology Laboratory supported two studentships studying Burkholderia
 (Mukamolova); Jaguar Land Rover sponsors Morrissey’s EPSRC studentship on the effects
 of air pollution on bacteria; other partners are Waters Ltd. (Jones), Isomerase Therapeutics
 (O’Hare), AstraZeneca, Boehringer (Amrani), AxialD3 (Talbot), Cranswick (Clokie).

 Particular PIs have developed strong relationships with industrial partners that support their
 research activities:

 • A spin-out company (Haemostatix) founded in 2013 (Goodall) was sold in 2016 to Ergomed
 plc following a successful phase 1 clinical trial of its lead product, a topical haemostat to prevent
 post-surgical bleeding. Goodall has also been PI/Co-I on projects funded by Hoffmann-La
 Roche Ltd and Astra Zeneca studying the mechanisms of actions of drugs in relation to cancer
 therapy.

 • The leading direct-to-consumer genetic testing company 23andMe supported Beleza’s work by
 funding whole-genome sequencing of her African human population samples (£198k), a
 collaboration reflected in a high-profile output (Micheletti, AJHG 2020).

 • Carr’s long-standing research relationships with industrial partners (ICS1) led to a £1.35M
 award (2015) for the Antibody-Assisted Drug Discovery Consortium (LifeArc; UCB Biopharma)
 and a £1.74M CRUK Centres Network Accelerator Award (2016). The relationship has
 supported development of an anti-TNF-α antibody (Cimzia), an effective therapy for Crohn’s
 Disease and other inflammatory conditions which has generated multi-billion euro total net sales
 to date, and the recently licensed anti-sclerostin antibody Evenity.

 Public engagement
 PE is key to our activities as a University and a Unit, and bolstered by the presence of King,
 Professor of PE; our College PE Manager, Marie Nugent, is working with the National Co-
 ordinating Centre for PE to develop an institution-wide PE for Research strategy, a milestone in
 facilitating culture change. We support and run outreach and PE events to showcase our
 research to various publics:

 • Dynamic DNA is an annual genetics-themed STEM event, run since 2009. 600 key stage-3
 students and their teachers attend, supported in exciting hands-on activities by academic staff
 and PGR students.

 • Brain Awareness Day is an annual 1-day event, run since 2014 during National Brain
 Awareness Week, and hosts >200 key stage 4/5 students during the day, and 150 members of
 the public in the evening to learn about our neuroscience and behaviour research.

 • Members of LISCB use VR headsets to demonstrate the wonders of structural biology to the
 public, including to schools at the Big Bang Science Fair.


                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 • We participate in national events such as the British Science Festival; in 2019 the WTISSF-
 funded project Hair Comes the Science Bit involved a pop-up hair lab in a local hairdressing
 salon, revealing the fascinating science of hair to an audience not normally engaging in science
 events.

 • Our Botanic Garden is the single biggest provider of outreach and PE in the University. It
 hosts >11,000 school, college and university students annually from across the city, county and
 further afield, plus >3000 adult students on taught programmes, and >40,000 diverse visitors
 from our local and wider communities.

 • A new WTISSF scheme with the local Attenborough Arts Centre provides £5k awards to host a
 Creative Fellow to support innovative thinking and problem solving for research engagement
 and knowledge exchange.

 Influence and esteem
 The majority (94%) of our PIs hold external roles (many with multiple engagement) and/or have
 been recipients of prizes, awards or fellowships.

 Prizes, Awards and Fellowships: 20 members of the UoA won a total of 30 accolades from
 learned societies (including Royal Society of Biology, British Pharmacological Society and
 International Society of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy), funders and other bodies over the REF
 period. Research fellowships included Tufarelli (WT Career Re-Entry Fellowship); Cowley
 (MRC Senior Research Fellowship); Moody (Royal Society Wolfson Fellowship; 2019);
 Revyakin (Leukemia & Lymphoma Special Fellowship). King’s work on the Richard III discovery
 led to the 2018 JBS Haldane Lecture of the Genetics Society and the British Council’s Queen’s
 Lecture in Berlin, 2016. She became a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London, and
 Honorary Fellow of the British Science Association. Panne gave the 2014 Jean-François Lefèvre
 Memorial Lecture, Strasbourg, and Clokie gave the 2016 Otto Wolff Lecture at UCL Institute of
 Child Health. Louis and Jobling were awarded Honorary Professorships at Hubei University of
 Medicine (China), and Vuister at the University of Birmingham. Schwabe won a Royal Society
 Wolfson Research Merit Award and was elected member of Academia Europaea (2015).
 Kyriacou has been a Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences since election in 2000.

 Roles in Learned Societies, Government Agencies, Advisory Boards: 25 UoA members
 (>40%) contributed to these activities, including roles in ten learned bodies ranging from the
 Genetics, Microbiology and Biochemical Societies to the Association for Radiation Research
 (Talbot, Secretary and Chair-Elect), Human Genome Variation Society (Dalgleish), European
 Society of Clinical Microbiology (Oggioni), International Association of Sexual Plant
 Reproduction Research (Twell, Vice-President), and the Galton Institute (King, President). Staff
 have been involved in government working groups (e.g. Home Office Biometrics and Forensics
 Ethics Group [Jobling]; European Food Safety Authority [Louis]; Food Standards Agency
 [Clokie]; Department of Health [Dubrova]), and in advisory boards (e.g. Earlham Institute;
 Warwick MRC DTP; BBSRC Bioscience for Sustainable Agriculture and Food Strategy Advisory
 Panel [Ketley]), thus helping shape both the national and international science landscapes.
 Heslop-Harrison has served on the UoA5 panel for both REF2014 and REF2021.
 Conferences: During the REF period 30 international meetings were organised/co-organised by
 Unit members, including four EMBO and two Gordon Conferences. Members gave >290 invited
 or plenary conference presentations, plus a similar number of invited national and international
 seminars, equating to ~10 such talks/FTE over the REF period. This indicates both our


                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engagement in national and international science, and the high regard in which our researchers
 are held.

 Grant review panels: 47% of staff contribute to funders as panel chairs or members, including
 17 international bodies, e.g. Agence Nationale de la Recherche (Dominguez; Oggioni; Louis;
 Amrani), Institut Laue Langevin, Oak Ridge National Laboratory and NordForsk (Moody);
 Commonwealth Scholarship Commission (Jobling); Ehlers Danlos Society (Dalgleish). Staff sit
 on UKRI grant committees including BBSRC (7), MRC (2) and Future Leaders Fellowship panels
 (2). Moody chairs the Life Sciences Panel at Diamond Light Source, and Schwabe chairs
 Wellcome’s Multi-user Equipment Committee. Kyriacou sits on Royal Society panels for
 Dorothy Hodgkin, Isaac Newton and RS Fellowships. Quinquennial review panel members
 include Ketley (BBSRC), Goodall (MRC), Heslop-Harrison (Czech Academy of Sciences;
 Hong Kong Baptist University) and Louis (Insitut Pasteur). Over 85% of staff have reviewed
 grant applications, underlining the esteem of members of the UoA and their contribution to UK
 and international science.

 Contributions to journals, books and public understanding of science: 41% of UoA staff
 were editors or associate editors for 43 journals during the REF period. This includes editors-in-
 chief of PHAGE (Clokie) and Annals of Botany (Heslop-Harrison), plus: Biotech Applied
 Biochem; Cell Tissue Eng (Brindle); Biochem Pharmacol; Brit J Pharmacol (Challiss); Sci Rep
 (Cowley); Hum Mutat (Dalgleish); BMC Biochem (Dominguez); Mutat Res; Radiation Biol;
 (Dubrova); PLoS One (Fry); Platelets (Goodall); Theor Appl Genet (Heslop-Harrison); Biol
 Meth Protocols; Front Genet (Hollox); Ann Hum Genet (Jobling); J Biol Rhythms; Behav Genet
 (Kyriacou); Yeast; PLoS One; Microb Cell; Sci Rep (Louis); Cell Death Disease; Sci Rep
 (Mahaut-Smith); FEMS Microbiol (Millard); Front Cell Infect Microbiol (Mukamolova); Infect
 Immun; Microb Cell (Oggioni); J Med Mycol (Pashley); Front Oncol (Rufini); Struct Biol
 (Schmid); Mol Cell Biol (Schwabe); Cancers (Talbot); Plant Reprod; BMC Plant Biol; Eur J
 Plant Sci Biotech; Int J Plant Devel Biol (Twell); J Biomol NMR (Vuister); Immunobiol (Wallis);
 Pharmacol Res Perspec (Willets); Sci Rep (Yesilkaya). UoA staff contribute substantially to the
 peer review process, reviewing an average of 500 manuscripts/y over the REF period (>8
 FTE/y). Fry and Challiss are Members of Faculty of 1000.

 Contribution to PhD student and ECR training: 45% of UoA staff have acted as external
 examiner during the REF period for 79 PhD students in Europe, Asia, Africa, Australasia and the
 Americas, including institutions such as the Universities of Aarhus, Braga, Brno, Debrecen,
 Lausanne, Padova, Tartu, Umea, Vienna, and Wageningen; Karolinska Institute; ETH Zurich;
 EMBL Grenoble; Carnegie Mellon University; University of Los Andes; University of Peshawar.
 Within the UK, 73% of staff have acted as external examiner for >200 PhDs. The number and
 quality of our own students, and our role in examining students at national and international
 levels represent a significant contribution to the research base.

 UoA5 Environment overview
 Here we have described our vital and sustainable approach to Biological Sciences research at
 Leicester, and demonstrated our success in attracting research income, training the next
 generation of researchers, and producing high-quality outputs and impact. We are proud of the
 diversity of our city, and proud that our undergraduate student body and PGR students, as well
 as our vision for the future of our academic staff, reflect Leicester’s rich diversity. Aided by
 strategic investment in research institutes and specific projects, our interlinked research groups
 support traditional areas of strength and will embrace new opportunities, through an ethos of
 collegiality, communication and collaboration and deep interdisciplinary relationships between

                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoA5 and medicine, public health, chemistry and social sciences. We have recruited
 outstanding new people and nurtured our existing staff, and our future strategy ensures we will
 continue to do this. We have developed outstanding research infrastructure, supported by
 ambitious external bids, and linked with other institutions, and with industrial partners. Our
 members play central roles in Biological Sciences research in the UK and internationally, and
 the impact of their work, reflected in our case studies, brings benefits in health, wealth, wellbeing
 and culture to our region and globally. Their excellence is supported by the quality of their
 publications, and by the range and number of their contributions. These achievements are
 underpinned by the quality of the research environment that we have built at Leicester, enabling
 a resilient, diverse, sustainable, portfolio of support allowing us to maintain and grow a world-
 class research endeavour to address the most important and exciting biological challenges.




                                                                                              Page 24
