Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: Newcastle University


 Unit of Assessment: UoA2 - Public Health, Primary Care and Health Services Research

 1. Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategy
 1.1 Overview
 The mission of our public health, primary care and health services research is to ‘improve health,
 care and wellbeing for all and reduce health inequalities’ and our goal is ‘to undertake world-class
 research and to actively translate our findings into policy and practice’. As such, we have a strong,
 vibrant, applied interdisciplinary research environment with researchers drawn from a wide range
 of disciplines spanning the health, biomedical and social sciences – all working together to
 respond to societal challenges. We are visibly leading in: applied epidemiology, applied public
 health, primary care, methodological innovation in health and social care evaluation, working in
 partnerships with policy and practice, addressing health inequalities, translational research, and
 providing an environment and talent pipeline that gives all researchers freedom and opportunity
 to succeed.

 Our research is primarily carried out within the Newcastle University Population Health
 Sciences Institute (NUPHSI) which was formed in November 2019 during an extensive Faculty
 restructure, and expansion of the previous Institute of Health and Society (IHS). The restructure
 converted six, largely independently operating research institutes to three strategically
 interconnected ones: Biosciences, Translational and Clinical Research, and NUPHSI. This
 strengthened the vibrant, interdisciplinary research activity across the Faculty of Medical
 Sciences (FMS). Our researchers work together within NUPHSI to promote interdisciplinary
 working, and across the other Institutes and facilities (e.g. Clinical Trials Unit and NIHR Biomedical
 Research Centre [UoA1], Newcastle University Centres of Research Excellence [NUCoREs]
 REF5a 2.21). We collaborate with allied health professionals (e.g. pharmacy, nutrition and
 dentistry, UoA3) and beyond FMS, primarily in social policy (UoA20) and biostatistics (UoA10).

 Our UoA2 submission includes 33 staff, an increase from 2014 (27.22 FTE REF2014, 31.27 FTE
 REF2021), with our return including 76% females (73% of Professors) up from 50% female in
 REF2014 (38% Professors). Our UoA2 income has increased from an average of £5.8M per year
 in REF2014 to £7.7M (a 15% increase or £31,000 per FTE per year). We have been awarded 25
 fellowships, including three National Institute of Health Research (NIHR) Senior Investigator and
 13 post-doctoral awards. During REF2014 we supervised 207 PGR studentships with 89% funded
 by NIHR, UKRI, charities, overseas scholarships etc., together with 230 Masters students in our
 Public Health, Global Health and Epidemiology programmes.

 1.2 Strategy and Achievements
 Our goal builds on our aims from REF2014 - to undertake world-class research and to actively
 translate our findings into practice to improve health and reduce inequalities. We achieve this by
 working in large interdisciplinary teams, engaging with local, national and international partners as
 well as the global academic community.

 Headline achievements build from our REF2014 aim “to increase research infrastructure and work
 closely with end-users of our research”. During the REF period, we were awarded: the renewal
 and national leadership of the £20M NIHR School for Public Health Research (Adamson,

Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Bambra, Kaner, Ramsay, Sniehotta), the £5.1M NIHR Research Design Service North East and
 North Cumbria, (Vale, Craig, Ternent), one of the three £1.7M Alzheimer’s Society National
 Centres of Excellence in Dementia Care (Robinson) and membership of the £2.3M NIHR
 School for Primary Care Research (Robinson, Hanratty, Kaner, Craig). We successfully led the
 regional bid for the £9M NIHR Applied Research Collaboration (ARC) North East and North
 Cumbria (Kaner, Adamson, Bambra, Hanratty, Rankin, Vale, Craig, Rowlands), and were
 awarded leadership of two additional £1.9M ARC national priority consortia (Adamson, Public
 Health; Bambra, Inequalities). We (co)led two successful bids for £5M NIHR Policy Research
 Units (PRUs) in Behavioural Science (Sniehotta, Bambra, Craig, Kaner, Vale) and Older People
 and Frailty (Hanratty, Matthews, Craig), and are a partner in the PRU in Public Health bid
 (Adamson). Two national investments are led by us: £7.8M NIHR Innovation Observatory
 (Craig), and £20M National Innovation Centre for Ageing (Academic lead, Robinson [now
 Director Palmarini]). Equally important is the recent Academic Health Science Centre (AHSC)
 award to the University in partnership with local health trusts and Newcastle City Council, and the
 award to lead the NIHR Methodology Incubator (Teare).

 We successfully undertake interdisciplinary and collaborative research: 38% of returned outputs
 are interdisciplinary, with 60% national and 38% international co-authorship; 52% of UoA2
 returners are authors on outputs for other UoAs; and authors in underpinning research for six
 impact case studies (ICS) for other UoAs.

 Some examples of our extensive international collaborations are exemplified by involvement in:
 €7M Norwegian Research Council Centre for Global Health Inequalities Research (Bambra);
 €7.5M EU Horizon 2020 EUROlinkCAT cohort linkage study (Rankin); and €15.8M EU Innovative
 Medicines Initiative LiTMUS consortium on the identification and validation of biomarkers for
 non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (Vale, Ternent, Oluboyede).

 1.2.1 Applied Epidemiology: Early life development, Cancer and Ageing
 Our Applied Epidemiology (8.4 FTE) focuses on early life development, cancer and ageing
 research. Our achievements are reflected in £10.9M in grant awards, and 548 NU publications
 (50% written with international collaborators and field-weighted citation index (FWCI) of 1.92).

 Key achievements:

        Large collaborative grants: NIHR PGfAR (Sharp, £2.5M), North of England Children’s
         Cancer Research Fund (McNally, Sharp, Pearce, £1.5M), MRC (Matthews, £2.8M), Sir
         Bobby Robson Cancer Foundation (Sharp, £1.2M; £925,000), Guts UK (Sharp,
         £1.25M).

        External fellowships: NIHR Advanced Fellowship (Heslehurst, £900,000).

        Early life development: (1) An award of EU Horizon 2020 funding for the EUROlinkCAT
         linkage study (€7.5M) enabled estimates of microcephaly (BMJ2016) and long-term trends
         in neural tube defects across Europe (BMJ2015) and resulted in Rankin becoming the
         academic lead for Public Health England’s (PHE) National Congenital Anomaly and Rare
         Diseases Registration Service; (2) risk and management of diabetes in pregnancy
         (Diabetologica2014) informed NICE guidelines on diabetes and pregnancy risk; (3)
         research into health professionals’ management of perinatal loss of a co-twin
         (Perinatol2016) underpinned the development of tools for practitioners (UoA3 ICS).



Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Cancer: (1) research on radiation risks both from medical treatments (Heart2017) and
        environmental exposure (BJC2014) led to membership of UK Government Committee on
        Medical Aspects of Radiation in the Environment; (2) research on cancer prevention and
        survivorship (e.g. BMCCancer2018, BJOG2017, Gut2020) led to appointments on National
        Cancer Research Institute Groups and developing guidelines for monitoring after colorectal
        resection.

        Ageing: (1) national dementia estimates, incidence (NatCommun2016) and prevalence
         included in PHE diagnostic targets (extension of REF2014 impact), Prime Minister’s
         dementia challenge, global burden of disease (Lancet2015) and the World Alzheimer’s
         Report; (2) influential modelling of the ageing population on the needs of health and social
         care (AgeAgeing2018a, Lancet2018a) built into the House of Lords Select Committee
         Ageing report; (3) research (AgeAgeing2018b) into the independence of older people is
         showcased in the UoA2 ICS “LifeCurveTM software for assessing functional decline”,
         essential activity given the increasing dependency of ageing populations (Lancet2018b).

 1.2.2 Applied Public Health
 Our Applied Public Health (8.4 FTE) research focuses on changing health behaviours, supporting
 communities with severe and multiple disadvantage, and reducing health inequalities. Our
 achievements have been reflected in £24.8M in grant awards, 461 NU papers (36% written with
 international collaborators and FWCI of 2.44).

 Key achievements:

        Leadership of strategic infrastructure grants: regional ARC (Kaner, £9M) two £1.8M
         national ARC consortia (Adamson, Bambra), School of Public Health Research
         (Adamson, £20M), NIHR PRU Behavioural Science (Sniehotta, £5M), Fuse (Adamson,
         £4M).

        Large collaborative grants: Leverhulme Trust (Bambra, £997,000), NORFACE (Bambra,
         €1.1M), NIHR PGfAR (Kaner, £1.5M), NIHR Policy Research Programme (Ramsay,
         £629,000; Kaner, £1.4M), NIHR Public Health Research (Adamson, £1.5M).

        Changing health behaviours: (1) trials (Lancet2018c), evidence synthesis (BMJ2014)
         and theory development (HealthPsycholRev2016) influenced PHE’s guidance for
         delivering and commissioning Tier 2 Adult Weight Management Services; (2) Intake24, a
         new interactive, accurate and efficient online food diary (Nutrients2017) has been used by
         PHE to monitor the Sugar Smart campaign (UoA2 ICS “Intake24: a free, accurate online
         food intake measure); (3) the School Food Plan included NU research
         (e.g. IntJBehNutrPhysAct2014), which directly led to the introduction of free school meals
         for infants (2014) and simplified food standards (2015), (UoA3 ICS).

        Supporting communities with severe and multiple disadvantage: (1) research into
         parental substance misuse and adversity in children (TraumaViolenceAbuse2018) was
         used by PHE to inform the development of a social return on investment toolkit for use by
         commissioners; (2) a primary care alcohol screening and brief intervention programme
         evaluated across the Newcastle-Gateshead CCG (BMCFamPract2016) has since been
         recommended by NICE guidance (REF2014 impact extension).




Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Reducing health inequalities: (1) creating parliamentary debate and national policy
        discourse around regional health inequalities (NHSA report, JECH2019; UoA20 ICS);
        (2) supporting a World Health Organization (WHO) Europe policy resolution on reducing
        health inequalities (UoA20 ICS); (3) influencing the English pharmacy-funding model and
        delivery of the national pharmacy flu vaccination service (BMJOpen2016a, UoA3 ICS).

 1.2.3 Primary Care and Health Services Research
 Our Primary Care and Health Services Research (6.8 FTE) focuses on supporting patients with
 multimorbidity and reducing age-related illnesses. Our research achievements are reflected in
 £9.9M in grant awards, 381 NU papers (43% written with international collaborators and FWCI
 of 2.35).

 Key achievements:

        Leadership of strategic infrastructure grants: NIHR School of Primary Care Research
         (SPCR) (Robinson, £2.3M); NIHR PRU Older People and Frailty (Hanratty, £5M).

        Large research grants: One of the three national Alzheimer’s Society Centre of
         Excellence (PriDem) (Robinson, £1.7M); NIHR Global Health Research Group
         (Robinson, £2M).

        Multidisciplinary care: (1) we work with NHS England and local CCGs to enhance care
         through design and evaluation of local initiatives. Recent examples include contributing to
         a CCG chronic obstructive pulmonary disease strategy (PrimCareRespMed2017) and
         implementation of multidisciplinary case management (BMJOpen2016b); (2) The
         Connected Health Cities project improved interactions between patients, family and health
         and social care professionals at the end of life (SocSciMed2020).

        Optimising care for older people: (1) the government’s loneliness strategy drew on our
         highly cited work (Heart2016, AJPH2017); (2) we completed commissioned work (UK
         Government’s Foresight Future of Ageing project) for the Future of Ageing Report, and our
         NIHR-funded work (HS&DR2014) informed NHS policy initiatives on Comprehensive Care
         of older people with frailty; (3) we work with the North East Commissioning Support Unit
         and CCGs in leading evaluation of new ways of working in care homes (BMJOpen2018)
         and the community application of national early warning scores (Hanratty
         AgeAgeing2020).

        Patient care for people with dementia: (1) our research (NIHR HTA2014a) on dementia
         has influenced NICE guidelines primary care management of dementia and the dementia
         care pathway (follow-on from REF2014 ICS and new research from the PriDem project),
         findings informing international policy and practice include the Global Dementia Plan and
         Alzheimer’s Disease International. NU’s Massive Open Online Courses on Dementia Care
         (2019 national dementia care award winner) has 35,000 users from 170 countries.

        Changing patient experience: collaboration with young people with long-term health
         conditions and healthcare commissioners identified key factors underlying successful
         transition between child and adult services (BMCMed2018) and recommendations directly
         informed high-level policy e.g. NHS Long Term Plan and NICE guidance NG43 (UoA2 ICS
         “Improving the transition of young people with long-term health conditions from child- to
         adult-oriented healthcare”).


Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2.4 Health and Social Care Evaluation
 Health and social care evaluation research (7.5 FTE) focuses on the development and application
 of research methodologies that facilitate early technology evaluation and assessment, through to
 implementation research across the whole range of clinical specialties, public health and social
 care. Our research achievements are reflected in £23.4M in grant awards and 197 NU outputs
 (33% written with international collaborators and FWCI of 1.65).

 Key achievements:

        Leadership of strategic infrastructure grants: NIHR Innovation Observatory (£7.8M,
         Craig), NIHR Research Design Service (£5.1M, Vale), Cochrane Incontinence
         (£800,000, Vale).

        Large research grants: Department of Health - Connected cities for health (£4M, Burton),
         leading analytics themes (Vale, Craig, Wason, Burton) in four NIHR (£2M each), one MRC
         (£4.8M), five EU consortia (£2M-£11M), 20 NIHR trials (£0.6M-£3.2M), and two NIHR i4i
         studies (£1M each).

        Summarising knowledge: (1) our systematic reviews, network meta-analyses and
         modelling of the effectiveness, safety and cost-effectiveness of surgical treatments for
         stress urinary incontinence in women (The ESTER study: Craig NIHR HTA2019)
         underpinned NICE guidelines; (2) development of the ScanMedicine platform, which uses
         AI methods to bring together medical data sources to simplify searching.

        Developing method guidance: (1) state-of-the-art synthesis methods evaluating
         diagnostic tests when no gold standard test is available (PLoSOne2019); (2) identifying
         target differences for RCTs using evidence synthesis, consensus and survey methods
         (NIHR HTA2014b; BMJ2018); (3) leading the development, piloting and dissemination of
         tools to incorporate economic evidence into Cochrane reviews (GRADE JCE2020).

        Biostatistics development/guidance and software: (1) basket trials that evaluate
         several new treatments simultaneously implemented in the OACS trial (Biostatistics2020);
         (2) efficient multi-arm multi-stage trials designs (BMCCancer2020) implemented in multiple
         HTA-funded trials (MIDFUT trial, CONFORM-OH); (3) platform trials used in the
         international FORMAT trial (StatMed2019); (4) CONSORT reporting guideline extensions
         for including stepped wedge trials and adaptive designs (BMJ2020).

        Data to knowledge: (1) Public releases of DataSHIELD, which enables remote non-
         disclosive sharing of sensitive research data, provided enhanced functionality, greater
         ease of use, and ability to include high-volume ‘omics data; (2) development,
         implementation and evaluation of novel modelling methods underpinned PHE’s weekly
         reporting on “Excess Deaths in England”. Joint first place in the national 2020 Analysis in
         Government Award.

 1.3 Open Access and Research Integrity
 Wide dissemination of both research outputs and data is encouraged. As well as developing
 software for enhancing reuse (ScanMedicine and DataSHIELD above), colleagues are supported
 by Research Data Managers to develop data management plans to ensure in advance data
 sharing, including making use of the NU Research Data Repository. Our cohort studies are held
 on several open repositories. The University’s e-Prints repository ensures research outputs are

Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 made Green Open Access, with RCUK/UKRI and COAF funds augmented by Faculty and
 NUPHSI to increase Gold Open Access. We are actively preparing for Plan S.

NU is a signatory of the Concordat for Research Integrity (REF5a 3.2.3) with Professor of Bioethics
Woods (UoA21) as its expert convenor on research integrity, while Professor Rowe (UoA4) has
been appointed Dean for Research Culture and Strategy with oversight of integrity. We have joined
the UK Reproducibility Network, maintain policies and procedures compliant with the Concordat
to support Research Integrity, subscribe to UKRIO, and are members of the Russell Group’s
Research Integrity Forum. Importantly, the methodological expertise provided within NUPHSI,
together with the NIHR Research Design Service which provides critical input into study design
and statistical rigour, significantly contributes to overall research reproducibility and integrity.

1.4 Future Strategic Aims and Goals for Research and Impact
The University research strategy, launched in October 2018, promotes a one-university vision and
the 2019 FMS restructure aligns with this. By enabling researchers to work together in cross-
disciplinary networks across the faculties, we are better configured to meet the demands of the
contemporary funding landscape (larger grants funding multidisciplinary working to address major
societal, economic and health challenges) and to achieve collective research excellence.

We lead many FMS research themes: Ageing and Geroscience (Brittain, ECR lead Kingston),
Applied Cancer Therapeutics and Outcomes (Sharp), Innovation, Methodology and Application
Hub (Teare), Public Health and Inequalities (Bambra); and hold leadership positions in many
Newcastle University Centres of Research Excellence (NUCoREs): Regulatory Science (Vale,
Craig), Ageing and Inequality (Matthews, Bambra), Cancer (Sharp), and Healthier Lives
(Adamson, Kaner).

The FMS themes and NUCoREs provide interdisciplinary research spaces for sharing ideas, grant
development and mentorship; host internal and external (including international) seminars; and
support ECRs and PGR career development by enhancing their training and mentorship
opportunities within cross-disciplinary environments. Contributions by academics, methodologists,
technologists and project managers within NUPHSI and themes are recognised and rewarded on
an equal basis within the team science setting.

The aim over the next five years is to maximise our cross-disciplinary input into our research
endeavours, whilst developing our disciplinary remits. NUPHSI strategy is to recruit more
“transition to independence” and senior lecturers to develop a strength in depth and maximise the
opportunities provided by NUAcT fellowships (REF5a 3.2.4). Recruitments will expand our areas
of strength (our themes and NUCoREs). We will continue to enable a supportive research-active
culture that implements our vision but can also respond to short-term needs, such as COVID-19.

Our goal remains “to undertake world-class research and to actively translate our findings into
policy and practice” and drives our impact strategy operationalised by close collaborations with
policy and practice via our infrastructures (section 3.2). This is exemplified by our three impact
case studies.




Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Key strategic research aims are to:
        Expand our international, national and regional applied public health research into
         reductions in health inequalities, changing behaviours and supporting severely
         disadvantaged and marginalised communities, and increase our impact through further
         external collaborations with partners in local and national government and the NHS.

        Maximise opportunities from our cohort and registry studies and link with new
         opportunities in routine data analytics e.g. by exploiting our membership of the recently-
         established Northern Hub of HDR UK and Population Research UK to investigate public
         health questions at a pace and scale not previously available.

        Build on and further expand our academic primary care expertise in ageing and
         integrated care through large national funding initiatives e.g. L&G Advance Care Research
         Centre, and expand the primary care remit beyond general practitioners.

        Increase the development and implementation of our innovative designs and
         methods for use in clinical trials and evidence synthesis studies, from concept through to
         delivery, capitalising on the opportunity afforded by leading the NIHR Methodology
         Incubator (Teare) to build capacity in methodology.

        Maximise the opportunities for direct impact on improving health and reducing
         health inequalities regionally, nationally and internationally from the newly-created ARC
         and AHSC, and direct input into Government from our NIHR Policy Research Units. Build
         industrial links such as exemplified by our Innovate UK Healthy Ageing grant into
         developing healthy home solutions (£11.5M, Kingston, 2021).

        Build on the success of our campaign for gender equality for other under-represented
         groups (especially BAME) and ensure appropriate mentoring and leadership opportunities
         to enhance career development and further embed EDI within our research culture.

        Increase regional and national capacity by continuing to obtain funds for, and deliver,
         the highest standard of multidisciplinary doctoral, post-doctoral and leadership training,
         including utilising industrial funding. Providing opportunities for our fellows, including the
         13 new NIHR ARC fellows.

        Build on our recent joint PhD programmes with Monash, Australia and Universitas
         Indonesia in Jakarta to develop a wider range of international researchers. We will also
         foster diversity amongst our home students by expanding our pipeline from our
         increased diversity of UG students, through Masters to PhD students and into post-doc
         researchers.

 2. People
 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Career Development
 Our UoA2 submission includes 33 staff, of whom six are early career researchers (ECRs), slightly
 higher than 2014 (27.22 FTE REF2014, 31.27 FTE REF2021). Since November 2019, academic
 staff have been based in NUPHSI, and most were previously within the Institute of Health and
 Society (IHS). The restructure has brought together staff employed within the population health
 sciences remit across many UoAs (e.g. 1, 3-4, and 20). Research themes have been developed
 to synthesise and foster interdisciplinary collaborations.


Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strategic professorial clinical/non-clinical appointments have been made across all our themes:
 epidemiology (Matthews, Sharp), health inequalities (Bambra), primary care (Brittain, Hanratty,
 Rowlands), biostatistics (Teare, Wason) and data science (Burton). Areas of research strength
 have also been enhanced by promotions including chairs (Craig, Pearce, Sniehotta) and
 senior/lecturer (Brown, Heslehurst, Kingston, Oluboyede, Ternent) as well as appointments at
 senior/lecturer (Craig, McGovern, Ramsay).

 Across NU, we promote research excellence amongst all staff and full compliance with the
 Research Concordats (REF5a 3.2.3). UoA2 has a high proportion of female staff across all grades
 (76% overall, with 73% at Professor). We recognise that ethnic diversity is poor, as is reflected
 across Higher Education nationally (9%) and this is a key issue for the future. Self-declared
 disability has improved from REF2014 but is still low at 6%. The research undertaken within UoA2
 is heavily dependent on good quality research staff that are predominantly funded on research
 grants. Research staff are offered open-ended contracts after four years, and staff movement
 between projects is facilitated by a continuous process that starts at least six months prior to the
 end of funding/contract with all new positions placed in the redeployment pool, together with
 bridging funding (one core element of the delivery of the Concordat) being available through
 Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund, Institute and principal investigator (PI)
 funds. Equality of opportunity and diversity are strongly fostered by the Institute and themes, and
 we have equality leads in the Faculty and Institute. Moreover, the University’s Dean of EDI
 (Rankin) is from UoA2.

 All staff participate in annual review meetings (PDR) with a senior academic, with dedicated
 training to both appraiser and appraisee: these focus on achievements over the past year, plans
 for the current year and career development. The annual PDR also provides strategic advice,
 identifies areas of support and training needs and highlights concerns. Each PDR is submitted to
 the Head of Institute enabling high level oversight and identifying common needs across
 disciplines. In 2021, we move to a year-long engage and aspire programme with mentoring at all
 levels with regular discussion, rather than an annual one-off review. Staff are also encouraged to
 access complementary external programmes e.g. PI development programme and Aurora
 Schemes (16 attendees). The NU Manager Toolkit offers workshops, online training and short
 videos to help both academic and non-academic managers. All academic staff contribute to
 undergraduate and postgraduate teaching with training in teaching skills provided.

 Evidence of a sustainable staff structure and career development: promotion processes are
 overseen by the Head of Institute, with close conversation between line managers. Individuals
 who aspire to be considered for promotion or have been recommended by their line manager for
 promotion submit their paperwork well in advance of the deadline to a specially convened NUPHSI
 panel, which offers advice on how to strengthen the application without delaying the process.
 During the REF2021 period, eight research staff have been promoted to senior research positions,
 with twelve from research assistant to research associate.

 2.2 Clinical Academics
 We recognise the importance of collaboration between our researchers (including clinical and
 allied health professionals) and the NHS, public health and social care organisations. We have
 direct links to both Public Health and Primary Care, which is reflected within the academic body
 and our training opportunities. Of the UoA2 academics, five (15%) are clinicians and hold
 honorary NHS contracts, and we host seven clinicians with honorary academic appointments.
 We pay close attention to the training needs of clinical academics, who are supported by the
 Clinical Academic Office which manages the NIHR Integrated Academic Training pathway,

Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and by the involvement of senior clinical academics in PDR, mentorship and internal peer review
 of applications for external awards. They are integrated fully within NUPHSI’s research themes
 and structures.

 We have five NIHR Academic Clinical Fellows in general practice, four in public health and three
 NIHR Clinical Lecturers, with GP PhDs increasing from 0 in REF2014 to seven in REF2021
 (including one Alzheimer’s Society and two NIHR doctoral research fellowships). Research
 fellowships obtained include three NIHR in-practice fellowships, one SPCR GP Career
 progression fellowship and one post-qualification Health Education England North East
 (HEENE)/CCG-funded fellowship. A HEENE Academic Clinical Lecturer in Public Health was
 awarded an NIHR post-doctoral ICA fellowship and we have one pre-doctoral Public Health SPHR
 Fellowship. We have had 11 on the Academic Foundation programme. The MSc in Public Health
 and Health Services Research offers research and academic training for both Public Health
 Specialty Registrars and GPs - with two HEENE-funded posts open to local GPs in training each
 year (nine to date); these Extended Integrated Posts are split between GP training (50%) and
 research (50%). Posts in educational research have supported 12 GPs in training to complete a
 Diploma or Masters in Medical Education.

 2.3 Early Career Researchers
 Our ECRs are supported and actively mentored in fellowship applications, and are encouraged
 to develop their methodological and translational skills through bespoke training programmes.
 These include NU and FMS ECR programmes, including the PI Development Programme and
 Policy Academy fellowship scheme (Kingston, Spence, plus seven non-independent researchers).
 There have been eight external personal fellowships held during the REF2021 period including
 NIHR advanced career development fellowships (Heslehurst, O’Donnell, McGovern, Adams,
 Sowden), MRC Innovation Fellowship (Wilson) and two SPCR fellowships (Kingston,
 O’Donnell). Within FMS, Newcastle University Research Fellowships (NURFs, now the University
 NUAcT scheme) provide start-up costs, a PhD student and dedicated mentoring support. Initially
 aimed at biomedical scientists, this expanded into NUPHSI in 2018 and now has four
 appointments (Kingston, Grayling, Spence, Wu [NUAcT]). Each NURF/NUAcT position is worth
 approximately £450,000 of investment in our ECRs. UoA2 academics mentor a further two
 researchers with junior SPCR fellowships (£68,000), and three researchers who gained
 highly competitive internally funded Faculty Fellowships (worth £150,000), only two offered
 each year across the whole of FMS. Faculty fellow (O’Donnell) has since gone on to secure an
 NIHR Fellowship.

 2.4 Supporting Staff Development (see Figure)
 IHS provided a collective support fund to cover bridge funding, pilot funding, patient and public
 involvement (PPI), conference and training costs available to all levels from PI through to PGRs
 (£290,000). In addition, FMS also has a Small Grant Scheme which provides pump priming
 funding to researchers to support external grant applications (focused on enabling preliminary
 data collection for ECRs and PPI involvement): in total three people have benefited from this
 scheme. Our Broadening our Horizons scheme supports and celebrates the contribution of
 post-doctoral researchers and PGR students. It allows them to present their work at conferences,
 visit other research groups (or policy makers / industry) nationally and internationally to gain new
 techniques or mentoring and thereby raise their profile and that of NU internationally. The fund,
 which has provided 21 awards (of 135 FMS awards), covers travel, accommodation and any
 childcare costs to support attendance.


Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 2.5 Recognition and Reward
 Formal recognition for excellent performance is achieved via our annual promotion round, a fully
 open process which allows all academics to submit their own case for promotion. In line with the
 NU signatory of the Declaration on Research Assessment in 2018 we do not use journal impact
 factors for promotion or evaluation, therefore achievements are based on quality evaluations not
 traditional journal names and non-contextual citations. Of the 33 academics in UoA2 (12 strategic
 appointments), nine have been promoted over the REF2021 period with two individuals achieving
 two promotions.

 2.6 Research Students
 We have a vibrant and diverse postgraduate research student community (PhD, MD, MRes, MSc).
 During the REF period 80 students were awarded PhDs, with 127 ongoing students fully or partly
 supervised within UoA2. Our PGR population is quite diverse with 71% female and 34% from
 BAME backgrounds (16% excluding international students). Most students (89%) are funded from
 individual studentships, with 25% UKRI/NIHR, 10 from the ESRC Northern Ireland and North
 East Doctoral Training Partnership (NINE DTP) and six within the EPSRC Digital Civics CDT
 located in Computer Science (co-applicants Hanratty, Sniehotta, Adamson). We also have a
 steady presence of international students primarily funded via University or governmental
 scholarships from a range of countries including Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Nigeria, India, Indonesia
 and China, with 22% of our PGRs international. PGRs are authors on 19% of our return.

 Levels of student satisfaction are comparable to, or higher than, those for the sector as a whole,
 according to successive Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) exercises, with an
 upward trajectory. Level of agreement amongst IHS/NUPHSI students with the statement “Overall,
 I am satisfied with the experience of my research degree” were 80% in 2015, 87% in 2017 and
 91% in 2019.

 Studentships are advertised widely and awarded in open competition. Candidates are shortlisted
 against explicit criteria (including academic achievement), with shortlisted individuals being
 interviewed by a panel of at least two selectors. Speculative applications from candidates meeting


Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 academic entry criteria are reviewed by the PGR lead to identify potential supervisors whose
 research interests match the candidate.

 Training and supervision of PGR students: all students have a supervisory team with a minimum
 of two supervisors, with complementary topic and methodological expertise. All supervisors are
 associate/full fellows of the FMS Graduate School (or equivalent in another faculty) with one
 supervisor experienced in successful PGR degrees and examinations. Formal supervisory
 meetings (recorded on the E-Portfolio system) take place at least monthly. Annual Progress
 Review meetings with two other colleagues from related areas offer independent advice to the
 student. The FMS Graduate School ensures that issues such as the requirements of Interruption
 of Studies, changes in supervisors, etc. are dealt with sympathetically and equitably. The key role
 of the Postgraduate Student Coordinator (McColl) is to ensure a vibrant PGR research community
 and to support students and supervisors. PGRs have access to desk space and computer
 equipment throughout their PhD study period, including write up. In the 2019 PRES, 97% of
 respondents said their supervisors ‘have the skills and subject knowledge to support my research’
 (against 89% for the sector). PRES ratings for ‘My supervisors provide feedback that helps me
 direct my research activity’ have consistently exceeded 90% in successive PRESs.

 PGRs can access subject-specific and generic skills training through the FMS Postgraduate
 Training programme which aligns with the Vitae Researcher Development Framework
 (REF5a 3.2.3) and can also (subject to capacity) attend modules from Masters courses. PGRs
 access support beyond their FMS postgraduate training, via the Policy Academy, Media Skills
 groups and other faculties. PGRs are aligned to research themes and encouraged to present their
 work at monthly research discussion forums and annual research days.

 There is an active PGR student support group run by the students which meets bi-monthly, with
 presentations on topics such as Writing Your Thesis, Preparing for Viva, and Stress Management.
 New students are allocated a ‘buddy’, an established PGR student who can introduce them to
 colleagues, assist them in navigating university systems and provide general peer support. Final
 year PGRs have a ‘writing up buddy’ to assist thesis submission and viva preparation with a recent
 NU post-doc colleague.

 The FMS Broadening our Horizons scheme (section 2.4) is open to PGRs and shows the
 importance of research dissemination and the fostering of external collaborations (including with
 Industry). Our students are heavily involved with both the organisation and participation in the
 North East Postgraduate Conference (one of the largest such conferences in the UK with >600
 registrants each year), which is largely supported by UKRI DTP sponsorship. It allows free
 participation to all PGR students in the North of England, including a full-time crèche facility
 (funded by Newcastle University EDI funds). PGRs are eligible for the University-wide student
 hardship fund. FMS Graduate School also offers a post-submission scholarship, which
 supports talented research students with up to three months of additional stipend after the
 submission of their thesis or final dissertation. Since 2014, nine IHS/NUPHSI students have been
 successful in their applications (five for academic development, three in enterprise, one
 internship).

 Key postgraduate student achievements since 2014 include: three FMS thesis awards, with many
 achieving significant prizes/fellowships including one Marie Sklodowska-Curie Fellowship, a
 Flinders University Vice-Chancellor’s Award, two SPCR launching fellowships, two NIHR
 Infrastructure Short Placement Awards for Research Collaboration, a Wellcome Trust Broadening
 Horizons award for international collaboration; a place on the TUTOR-PHC,
 Canadian/international research training scheme; five NU Academic scholarships, three NU

Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Enterprise award scholarships and a NU Policy Research Fellowship; and numerous prizes for
 presentations at conferences, including one who won the chance to present next to the keynote
 speaker at the European Congress on Obesity. Many students undertake engagement activities
 e.g. Soapbox Science and five have been awarded Public Lecture prizes (with one writing a blog
 about their experience).

 2.7 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Despite the high proportion of women within our UoA (76%) we do not take the issue of gender
 discrimination or wider EDI remit for granted. We promote EDI principles at the heart of our staffing
 strategy and development providing a positive working structure. The FMS restructure embedded
 the University’s commitment to EDI as a core principle (REF5a 3.4), and enhanced EDI
 representation within committees and expanded EDI PGR representation. Since 2014, 75% of all
 internal promotions were women, including 33% chairs, there were 13% internal promotions
 in BAME groups (0% chair), with 12 strategic external appointments (70% women but 0% BAME).
 Of our staff, 18% have taken maternity leave or caring breaks, 20% work part-time (including 43%
 of ECRs, 13% men), flexible working is encouraged (e.g. term-time working, compressed working
 hours, home working). Timing of all meetings and training is primarily scheduled within core hours
 of 10am-4pm. Across FMS we have robust policies to support staff and PGR students to return
 to work following any extended leave with personalised support (Returners Support Programme,
 which since 2018 has helped three UoA2 returners). Athena SWAN Silver was awarded to IHS in
 2011 (renewed 2014, consolidated into FMS award 2019) but improvements can still be made for
 other protected characteristics and we are aware of the potential discriminatory impact of COVID-
 19 (described in section 2.8). Women have many senior leadership roles including Head of the
 Institute, lead of EDI (now Dean of EDI for the University), Deputy-Dean of Research and
 Innovation in FMS (now Dean), UoA REF co-ordinator, impact champion and FMS REF lead.

 The NUPHSI EDI committee meets regularly (Chair Brown, plus five NUPHSI colleagues) and is
 supported by a core FMS EDI team. NUPHSI are active in University EDI Initiatives including, but
 not limited to, funding from the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Fund for projects including:
 participation in the BAME staff network, disability inclusive images, and University Disability
 Interest Group (chair Wilson). Wilson organised the International Day of Persons with Disability
 Conference (2019), as well as speaking at the annual NU EDI research conference (established
 by University EDI lead, Rankin). Wilson was recognised in the Shaw Trust Disability Power list
 of the most 100 influential disabled people in the UK. FMS led the drive to reintroduce the Parents
 Network. The “You Said, We Did” initiative was developed to give everyone a voice for change.
 Issues identified and resolved included the provision of EDI training, divergence of policy for
 unpaid paternal versus maternal/adoption leave, and disseminating EDI knowledge (roadshows
 and an EDI blog). We value the University approach to EDI (REF5a 3.4), with its membership of
 the Advance HE’s Race Equality Charter, a Global Stonewall Diversity Champion and
 member of the Business Disability Forum; this provides a framework within which our approach
 is secured. We are committed to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers with NU being one of the first awarded a HR Excellence in Research Award by
 Vitae in 2010 (renewed twice since). The NUAcT Scheme recruitment process includes a first
 phase short listing that is anonymised to avoid explicit and unconscious bias.

 Our submission was constructed with an understanding of disciplinary balance. Outputs were self-
 nominated and evaluated anonymously by at least two other senior academics (with both an
 indicative score and reasons), and the REF lead moderated the scores. Selection of the return
 was by paper, not author, in line with our code of practice.

Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.8 Responding to COVID-19 Impacts on Colleagues (REF5a Annex)
 Staff support: since March 2020 we have been mitigating the impact on colleagues and their
 research. The NU response included practical initiatives for all colleagues: 3-month contract
 extensions benefited six RAs and one research administrator. Emergency UKRI funding
 provided 3-month extensions, and similar support for projects in their second year and non-UKRI
 grants is now underway. Support includes clinical redeployments, converting studies and
 meetings to online and University-enabled safe home working with office equipment made
 available. FMS researchers were also encouraged to “do what you can” whilst protecting their
 mental health and family and caring responsibilities.

 PGR support: NU has provided fee-free extensions (up to six months) or for suspension of
 studies for up to 12 months. The NU COVID-impact fund provides additional stipend with
 particular emphasis on EDI issues. During lockdown, NUPHSI arranged virtual drop-in sessions
 and regular information and support on topics such as maintenance of good mental health and
 wellbeing. Support and guidance have been provided to mitigate impacts on face-to-face
 research and home working, including via provision of IT.

 2.9 Future EDI Priorities
 Given that 76% of our colleagues are female (including 73% of chairs) and the majority of
 Leadership roles are held by women, our EDI aspirations need to expand beyond gender. With
 only 9% of colleagues from BAME backgrounds (0 chairs) and 6% with declared disabilities, these
 are an important future focus. We are a Global Stonewall Diversity Champion, however no data
 exists to assist with monitoring related protected characteristics. We need to examine our
 recruitment processes, including documentation and networks, to support a more
 inclusive research environment. First stage blind assessment of NUAcT applications is a new
 undertaking which we will monitor to see if it assists with redressing our imbalance. However, it
 only reflects applications and therefore encouraging applicants from diverse backgrounds will be
 essential. We need to continue to work on the University initiatives supported by the FMS EDI
 leads and the University EDI Dean to create research cultures, activities and environments that
 will be spaces where people from diverse backgrounds can thrive.

 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities
 3.1 Income
 During the REF2021 period, we have been awarded £53.7 million in research income. This
 represents £7.7 million per year: a 15% increase from REF2014 (£5.8 million per year). UKRI
 income represents £4.3 million (8% of total), with NIHR funding £31.0 million or 58% (compared
 to 14% and 47% in REF2014). Two other areas have seen substantial increases - UK charity
 funding has increased by 10% to £845,000 per year and industrial funding is now £117,500 per
 year (up from £15,600).

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities
 3.2.1 Facilities and Accommodation
 The expansion of the remit of population health sciences has meant a new significant investment
 in repurposing offices (with our NHS partners) in the Sir James Spence Institute to provide
 research space and specialist labs for children and young people; co-locating Ageing researchers
 with clinical colleagues at the Campus for Ageing and Vitality; and co-locating nutrition
 researchers in the William Leech Building. An exciting development has been our award-winning
Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Helix site, where the Catalyst building houses the National Innovation Centre for Ageing,
 National Innovation Centre for Data and the NIHR Innovation Observatory (an investment of
 £40M). The Catalyst co-locates researchers with industry – enabling fast implementation of
 research into industrial collaborations. The Catalyst also houses VOICE (Valuing Our Intellectual
 Capital and Experience), an NIHR-funded organisation to ensure that citizens’ knowledge and
 experiences input to research at all levels. During the REF period, VOICE (led by NU Prof of
 Practice Corner) has expanded from a local organisation to a global entity with participants from
 10 countries. In recent months, UoA2 researchers have also been involved in the development of
 the Integrated COVID Hub-North East, a £110M public investment in a state-of-the-art
 laboratory, innovation laboratory and regional command and control centre (including an analytics
 hub led by Matthews) to assist the region with COVID-19 response, and future funding to link
 regional infectious disease response to hospital services and the community. UoA2 staff also have
 access to major facilities within the FMS including four Clinical Research Facilities, MoveLab
 (physical activity), Dame Barbour building (£39M, psychology, nutrition and exercise), the
 Culture Lab (assistive technologies) and laboratory facilities in the Cancer NUCoRE. We have
 recently purchased the Campus for Ageing and Vitality site (CAV, £8M) from our partner NHS
 Trust. CAV provides ample space for future estate development to enable our strategy to expand
 our clinical and population ageing research activities, including housing the NUPHSI, BRC, and
 the Clinical Ageing Research Unit. The CAV site is central to the future strategy of our AHSC to
 become a living lab for healthy ageing innovation and substantial future expansion of
 interdisciplinary research.

 3.2.2 Externally Funded Research Centres and Networks
 An important aspect of our infrastructure is the leadership of and collaboration in externally-funded
 research centres and networks (examples below).
 Centres and Units
 NIHR School for Public Health Research (SPHR)-Fuse (2012-2022) †
 NIHR School for Primary Care Research (SPCR) (2015-2020) †
 NIHR Policy Research Unit (PRU) Behavioural Sciences (2019-2023) †
 NIHR PRU Older People and Frailty (2019-2023) †
 NIHR PRU Public Health (2019-2023)
 NIHR Public Health Consortium (2017-2019)
 MRC Lifelong Health and Wellbeing Centre in Ageing and Vitality (2014-2019)
 NIHR Biomedical Research Centre in Ageing and Long-Term Conditions (2007-2022,
 renewed 2017)
 MRC/ARUK Centre for Integrated Musculoskeletal Ageing (2012-2022, renewed 2017)
 Infrastructure Awards
 NIHR Innovation Observatory (2017-2024) †
 NIHR Applied Research Collaboration (ARC) North East and North Cumbria (2019-2024) †
 NIHR Research Design Service (RDS) North East and North Cumbria (2008-2023) †
 BEIS/UK Government National Innovation Centre for Ageing (launched in 2018)
 NIHR Newcastle In Vitro Diagnostics Co-operative (IVDC) (Newcastle MIC) (2008-2023)
 Training/DTPs
 ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership (NINE DTP) (2017-2022)
 ESRC North East Doctoral Training Partnership (2011-2016)
 EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Digital Civics (2014-2022)
 Wellcome Trust 4ward North Clinical PhD Academy (2017-2022)
 †
   See section 3.2.6 for details

Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2.3 Methodology Platform Infrastructure
 We provide expertise in Biostatistics, Health Economics and Evidence Synthesis in close
 collaboration with the Newcastle Clinical Trials Unit (NCTU). This UKCRC-Registered CTU
 collaborates with investigators to design, conduct and deliver clinical trials. NCTU has a trial
 portfolio across many clinical disciplines and from diverse funders (public, commercial, and
 charitable). The groups also collaborate with the Newcastle In Vitro Diagnostics Co-operative in
 evaluating diagnostic tests, including for COVID-19. The Biostatistics Research Group is a
 team of over 20 biostatisticians with research strengths in innovative clinical trial design, including
 adaptive trials, precision medicine trials, and cluster-randomised trials. The group’s trial/study
 portfolio comprises 32 currently funded ongoing clinical studies. These include 18 NIHR, eight
 MRC and three major national charity trials; 22 of these are jointly held with NCTU. The Health
 Economics Group includes over 45 academic and research staff whose work particularly focuses
 on the development and application of methods of economic evaluation and early modelling, which
 are essential elements in the success of our translational funding applications to NIHR. The group
 currently has more than 60 projects funded by peer-reviewed grant applications. The Evidence
 Synthesis Group is a 22 strong multidisciplinary research group, comprising reviewers,
 information specialists and economic modellers with strong skills, knowledge and experience in
 searching, data retrieval, systematic review and meta-analysis, network meta-analysis and
 decision modelling/economic evaluation and application of futures/horizon scanning. In addition,
 members of the group contribute and support delivery of NIHR Innovation Observatory outputs
 (see section 3.2.6).

 The Newcastle Joint Research Office (JRO) supports NUPHSI researchers in the development,
 implementation and delivery of experimental, translational and clinical research, including funding
 development, governance, regulatory compliance, and intellectual property. A Quality Assurance
 team provides oversight in relation to regulatory requirements. An Informatics team supports data
 access, storage and reporting. The JRO also delivers bespoke training, ultimately ensuring that
 our clinical research is safe, value for money, of the highest quality and translate to improved
 patient outcomes.

 3.2.4 Research Management
 NUPHSI research managers, an integral part of our research environment, are coalesced to
 ensure senior research managers (SRM) can develop their research knowledge and line
 management skills. Secondment opportunities allow the development of new skills prior to
 promotions. SRMs provide methodological and practical input in trial design, leadership in
 contracting, ethics and on financial management on all NUPHSI studies. They provide senior
 oversight of the wider research and management team: Trial Managers (TMs), Data Managers
 (DMs) and Study Administrators (SAs). TMs drive the development of trial protocols, risk
 identification and mitigation, trial set up, regulatory approvals - MHRA and HRA submissions - site
 initiation, and day-to-day management of trial conduct, ensuring trial fidelity, equipoise and rigour,
 performing monitoring, and any safety reporting, alongside reports to the Sponsor and funder
 throughout the trial lifecycle to trial closure, and archiving. The DM leads the design, structure,
 and build of the databases, including trial randomisation system to Good Clinical Practice (GCP)
 standards, as well as managing the data entered by centres. Working together they ensure our
 research is conducted to GCP requirements.

 3.2.5 Data Resources
 A number of cohort studies are run from, or have fieldwork sites in, Newcastle or surrounding
 areas, led by UoA2 researchers (Adamson, Jagger, Kingston, Matthews, Pearce, Robinson).
Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Studies cover the full age range from the Newcastle Thousand Families Study (started in 1947,
 ongoing oral history interviews), early years cohorts (Gateshead Millennium Study, born
 1999/2000), to studies in older people (Newcastle 85+ study (95+ interview undertaken in
 2014/2015), Cognitive Function and Ageing Studies I and II, ongoing COVID-19 follow-up).
 These studies, together with registry studies from REF2014, contribute to worldwide collaborations
 producing key evidence on understanding the population (e.g. EUROCAT BMJ2016, COSMIC
 PLOSMed2017, TULIPS Thyroid2020), provide high quality research evidence (over 200 papers,
 10% returned across four UoAs), and are a rich resource to students at all levels (including
 undergraduate psychology and pharmacy, Masters programmes, and PhD students). All studies
 (including student projects) can be deposited on the NU Research Data Repository for further
 reuse.

 3.2.6 Supporting Infrastructure for Impact (including cross-HEI infrastructure)
 NUPHSI currently hosts academic leadership of many cross-HEI national initiatives with policy
 makers and health partners. They provide access to a wider network of colleagues and inform and
 support our research, link directly to health providers, and provide opportunities to inspire and
 educate our trainees.

 NIHR Applied Research Collaboration North East and North Cumbria (ARCNENC) (Director
 Kaner). This regional research and implementation initiative combines 12 CCGs, 10 acute and
 three specialist trusts, one ambulance trust, two medical schools, two pharmacy schools, six
 Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) and 13 local authorities. We secured £6.9M in matched
 funding from partners, to support our aim of accelerating the implementation of research that
 benefits the community.

 NIHR School of Public Health Research (SPHR, National Director, Adamson, with Bambra,
 Kaner, Ramsay): is funded to increase the evidence base for cost-effective public health practice.
 Regionally implemented as Fuse (Centre for Translational Research in Public Health, UKCRC-
 funded 2008-2018) with senior Investigators Bambra, Kaner, Sniehotta, Vale, it shares
 communication and knowledge exchange function across five North-East HEIs. Fuse offers
 Quarterly Research Meetings, seminars and other events, including a biannual international
 knowledge exchange conference, all co-produced with practice and open across the five HEIs
 through the network of 1,400 members.

 NIHR School of Primary Care Research (SPCR): is funded to increase academic primary care
 research and develop capacity (Lead Robinson, Craig, Hanratty, Matthews).

 NIHR Policy Research Unit (PRU) on Behavioural Science lead Sniehotta (with Bambra, Craig,
 Kaner, Vale). We also co-lead with Manchester University the NIHR Older People and Frailty PRU
 (Deputy Director Hanratty with Matthews, Craig) and are a member of the NIHR Public Health
 PRU (Adamson). All three centres enable direct impact as research is commissioned by the
 Department of Health and Social Care or arms-length bodies, providing experience for
 researchers in writing policy briefs as well as academic outputs whilst providing long-term security.

 NIHR Innovation Observatory (NIHR-IO) (Director Craig): undertakes futures scanning for new
 and repurposed medicines, medical devices, diagnostics and digital health innovations.

 NIHR Research Design Service North East and North Cumbria (RDS NENC) (Ternent, Teare,
 Exley, Vale) and a UKCRC registered Clinical Trials Unit (NCTU) provide research support for
 frontline clinical and allied health practitioners.


Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 National Innovation Centre for Ageing (NICA): the bid for this nationally and globally unique
 £40M centre was developed and led by Robinson. NICA’s aim is to bring together applied ageing
 researchers with patients, the public and industry to co-develop smart tools and technologies
 which facilitate healthy ageing and promote independent living.

 We also collaborate with other NU-hosted centres including: NIHR Biomedical Research Centre
 on Ageing and Long-Term Conditions and the Academic Health Science Network North East and
 North Cumbria (AHSN NENC). The AHSN supports quality improvement and implementation
 partnerships and co-funds the North East Quality Observatory Service (NEQOS) to provide quality
 measurement for NHS organisations. Newcastle University has recently been awarded an AHSC
 in partnership with Newcastle upon Tyne, Cumbria, and Northumberland, Tyne and Wear NHS
 Foundation Trusts, the AHSN and Newcastle City Council.

 We have well-developed pathways to promote the impact of our research: NUPHSI (and IHS
 before it) have two impact champions who together with the FMS Impact Officers look for
 potential impact opportunities and how to maximise them. Impact within the ARC, NIHR Schools
 and PRUs are linked directly to NHS Trusts, local authorities, the Department of Health and
 Social Care and arms-length bodies.

 4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research base, Economy and Society

 4.1 Overview
 Our researchers play an active role in shaping the research direction both nationally and
 internationally. Their expertise and leadership are recognised by their selection to strategic
 advisory roles, funding councils and policy forums (detailed below) and honoured by prestigious
 national awards. We have also contributed to HEFCE and Research England actions through
 shaping and delivering the REF process (Sniehotta, REF2021). Staff at all levels are encouraged
 to undertake academic citizenship activities and receive support, mentoring and training to
 undertake such roles (e.g. Policy Academy REF5a 2.2.5). This involvement is key to enabling our
 research to be heard by policy makers and thereby maximise the potential impact.

 Academic awards and other honours received
 Robinson (Dame Commander of the British Empire). NIHR Senior Investigators (Robinson,
 Adamson, Kaner). Awarded Regius Professorship in Ageing (Robinson). Fellowship through
 distinction Faculty of Public Health (Rankin), Academy of Social Sciences (Matthews), Royal
 College of General Practitioners (Robinson), Honorary Fellow of the Institute and Faculty of
 Actuaries (Jagger). Royal Society of Apothecaries William Farr Medal for excellence in the care
 and research of older people (Robinson). Shaw Trust Power list of 100 most influential disabled
 people in the UK (Wilson).

 4.2 Societal Impact and Strategic Voice
 As part of our leadership of the NIHR SPHR we established the Equal England: Health Inequalities
 Knowledge Exchange Network in 2016 in partnership with Public Health England. The network
 has over 600 members from across policy and practice, academia and the public across England.
 It brings colleagues together for knowledge exchange, co-development of research and for
 impacting on policy and practice in order to reduce regional and socio-economic inequalities in
 health.



Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fuse (section 3.2.7) leads on knowledge exchange and research co-production across the whole
 North-East public health system, supporting evidence-based change in local authority and NHS
 practice to address upstream determinants, improve health and wellbeing and reduce inequalities
 in health across the region.

 VOICE (Valuing Our Intellectual Capital and Experience) is our public engagement network and
 associated online digital platform, led by Professor of Practice Corner. Established in 2007, VOICE
 has grown significantly with national and international reach and now sustains a network of
 thousands of engaged “research-active citizens”, supporting thousands of research projects.
 VOICE is embedded as a University coordinating mechanism for public engagement with research
 and the PPE/I mechanism for a range of our NIHR infrastructure across the North East and two
 national centres (the National Innovation Centre for Ageing and the NIHR Innovation Observatory).

 The NENC Primary Care Research Strategy was co-developed between NU SPCR and North of
 England Commissioning Support Unit (NECS), who work on behalf of the 12 NENC Clinical
 Commissioning Groups (CCGs) and our regional NIHR Clinical Research Network (CRN). The
 strategy will engage key regional parties to drive growth and adoption of primary care research.

 Many of our PIs have given public lectures across the UK and beyond to engage audiences,
 including invitations at science festivals, bespoke events and our Newcastle Insight lectures, and
 schools outreach during the pandemic to explain epidemiology.

 4.3 Responsiveness to National and International Priorities
 4.3.1 Expert Witness and Select Committee Input
 Highlights include: Newcastle University Institute of Ageing submission (Jagger, Matthews,
 Kingston, Robinson, Hanratty) to Ageing: Science, Technology and Healthy Living in Science and
 Technology Select Committee (2019-2020). Expert Panel for National Audit Office Disability and
 Employment Study 2018-2019 (Bambra). Input into 2018 House of Commons Science and
 Technology Committee investigation into energy drinks in children (Visram). Secretary of State for
 Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy’s Early Years Healthy Development Review 2019-20
 (Rankin). 2018-2020 WHO Europe Scientific Advisory Group on Health inequalities (Bambra).

 4.3.2. Guideline Development
 Influencing guidelines is the first step to impact for much of our research. For example, we have
 been involved in (1) writing guidelines: WHO alcohol brief intervention training manual for primary
 care (O’Donnell), NICE guidelines for dementia management (Robinson), PHE clinical guidelines
 for surveillance after colorectal resection or polypectomy (Sharp), PHE guidance for delivering and
 commissioning Tier 2 Adult Weight Management Services (Sniehotta), and the Chief Medical
 Officer’s Expert Scientific Advisory Group on low-risk drinking guidelines. As a core member of
 NICE Public Health Advisory Committee (2012-) Kaner shaped five sets of guidance during
 REF2021: Excess Winter deaths, Community engagement, Drug misuse prevention, Physical
 activity and the environment, and Alcohol school-based interventions; (2) influencing guidelines:
 NICE guidelines surgical management of stress urinary incontinence (Craig, Vale), management
 of diabetes in pregnancy (Bell, Rankin), Dementia, disability and frailty (Matthews, Jagger), the
 dementia care pathway (Matthews, Jagger, Robinson) and national stillbirth and neonatal death
 charity Sands “Pregnancy loss and the death of a baby” guidelines (Rankin, UoA3 ICS).




Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.3.3 COVID-19
 Many UoA2 colleagues have been actively involved in COVID-19 research (e.g. leading the data
 analytics for the COVID Hub-North East, impact on cancer detection (Gut2021), influencing care
 home response (AgeAgeing2021), health inequalities (JECH2020, Health Foundation grant), and
 policy reports for Independent SAGE and the Northern Health Science Alliance.

 4.4 Collaborations
 Much of our research includes multi-disciplinary collaborations across the University, nationally
 and internationally and with NHS, councils or government departments.

 Research networks:

 Children’s Cancer & Leukaemia Group (McNally), Great North Children’s Hospital Community
 Network (Rankin), Health Economists’ Study Group (Vale, Ternent, Oluboyede, Brown, Craig),
 NIHR Clinical Research Network (Kaner), Public Health Intelligence Network of the North East
 (Brown), UKCRC-registered CTUs Executive (McColl), UK Faculty of Public Health (Ramsay, Vice
 Chair Academic & research committee); Cochrane (Vale, Craig); Campbell Collaboration (Vale);
 International Health Economics Association (Brown); Grading of Recommendations, Assessment,
 Development and Evaluations (GRADE) (Vale, Chair); Co-convenor Cochrane Campbell
 Economic Methods group (Craig).

 Educational Linkages:

 Several staff have visiting positions in other UK and International Institutions, to enhance
 collaborations and stimulate new research opportunities including: Jagger (University of New
 South Wales), Matthews (University of Cambridge, University of New South Wales), Ramsay
 (UCL). At least 90 external PhD examinations have been undertaken in the UK and internationally.

 Industry:

 Industrial and commercial collaborations include: development of software or devices (e.g.
 LifeCurveTM, Intake24), and with clinicians in the field of diagnostics (i4i and Innovate-funded) for
 melanoma (AmLo Biosciences) and rapid non-invasive assessment of peripheral arterial disease
 (NOTEPAD).

 4.6 Contributions
 UoA2 researchers have made a sustained and substantial contribution to the wider research
 community, within the UK and internationally, as members of 39 funding panels (including four
 chairs), editors of four research journals and 33 editorial boards (examples below).

 Chairing of research councils or similar national or international funding bodies

 UK Funding panels including: ESRC Grant Assessment Panel (Matthews); NIHR Doctoral
 Fellowship Panel (Rankin); UKRI Future Leadership Fellowship Panel (Matthews); NIHR GP in
 practice fellowship deputy chair (Robinson); Research Council of Norway (Vale), NIHR Advanced
 Career Fellowships deputy chair (Kaner), NIHR Evaluation, Trials and Studies Coordinating
 Centre deputy chair (Kaner).

 Membership of research councils, national or international funding bodies

 UKRI MRC Methodology Research Panel (Robinson); Strategic Skills Fellowship Panel
 (Matthews, deputy chair); MRC/NIHR Trials Methodology Research Partnership (deputy Chair,
Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wason), Multimorbidity call (Hanratty); NIHR Recovery Renewal Reset (Hanratty, Kaner); NIHR
 Programme Grants for Applied Research (Vale, McColl, Kaner, Exley), Research for Patient
 Benefit (Wason, Craig, Brittain), Health Services and Delivery Research (McNally, Craig), Health
 Technology Assessment (Vale, Wason), Global Health Policy and Systems Research (Robinson),
 Global Health Research Units and Groups (Robinson), In-Practice Fellowships (Hanratty); EPSRC
 ‘Content Creation and Consumption in the Digital Economy’ (Brittain); Health Foundation
 (Bambra); Wellcome Trust Fellowship Panel (Bambra); Health and Care Research Wales
 Research for Patient and Public Benefit Committee (Craig); Asthma UK's Research Review Panel
 (Craig); Independent Research Fund Denmark (Jagger); Norwegian Research Council Public
 Health (Bambra); Canadian Institute of Health (Matthews); Health Board Ireland (Kaner, Jagger),
 Federal Ministry of Education and Research, Germany (Kaner).

 Chairing of national or international research or health strategy panels

 NIHR EXILENS-Exploring the Impact of alcohol Licensing in England and Scotland (Kaner), NIHR
 NETSCC Trial Steering Committee, Communities in Charge of Alcohol (Kaner), NIHR
 Methodology Incubator (Teare), NIHR Statistics Group (Teare).

 Membership of health strategy panels

 i-HTS-international HealthTechScan European Regional group (EuroScan, Chair Craig), NICE
 Public Health Advisory Committee PHAC C (Kaner), MRC Stratified Medicine Steering Group
 (Matthews), MRC/NIHR Multimorbidity Steering Group (Jagger), Medical Aspects in the
 Environment (COMARE) (McNally), NHS Scotland Alcohol Brief Intervention Expert Advisory
 Group (O’Donnell), National Congenital Anomaly and Rare Diseases External Medical and
 Scientific Advisory Group (Rankin), ONS National Population Projections Expert Advisory Panel
 (Jagger), PHE Productive Healthy Ageing and Dementia Expert Advisory Group (Jagger), Topol
 Review (Vale), Scottish Congenital Anomaly and Rare Diseases Registration Service (Rankin),
 UK PharmaScan Oversight & Governance Board (Craig), Alzheimer’s Disease International
 (Robinson), International Advisory Board, Hamburg Network Health Services Research (Kaner),
 World Health Organization (WHO) Europe strategy committees (Rowlands, Kaner, Bambra,
 Visram).

 Leading positions in professional subject associations or learned societies

 EU Joint Research Centre (JRC)/European Surveillance of Congenital Anomalies (EUROCAT)
 Management Committee (Rankin); NIHR Statistics Group (Teare), NIHR Methodology Incubator
 (Teare), MRC/NIHR Trials Methodology Research Partnership (deputy chair, Wason); Society for
 Social Medicine and Population Health-mid-career researcher committee chair (Visram); World
 Organization of National Colleges, Academies and Academic Associations of General
 Practitioners/Family Physicians (WONCA) (Robinson - Ageing committee).

 Editorial / Associate editorial positions and editorial board membership and other esteem

 We have had 11 editorial positions (e.g. Cochrane Incontinence [Co-ordinating editor Vale], Health
 Psychology Bulletin [Sniehotta], NIHR Journals [PGfAR, McColl]). We have also had 10 associate
 editorships and 17 editorial board positions for international journals. Our researchers have given
 over 100 named, keynote and plenary lectures at prestigious national and international
 conferences. We are also heavily involved in trial steering groups and other study groups across
 the UK and abroad including chairing trial steering groups (e.g. Adamson, Hanratty, Vale, Wason).




Page 20
