Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Huddersfield

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 34: Communications, Cultural and Media Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context and structure:
 At the start of this REF cycle provisions in Communications, Cultural and Media Studies at the
 University of Huddersfield focused on journalism training with no developed research culture. An
 ambitious development programme began in 2015, following non-submission to REF2014,
 resulting in the creation of a new Department of Media, Journalism and Film in 2017 situated
 within the School of Music, Humanities and Media. In 2019, the addition of a second subject
 group (Drama, Theatre and Performance) led to the formation of the current Department of
 Media and Performance. This reorganisation aimed to strengthen interdisciplinary research,
 while maintaining Media and Performance as separate subject areas, reflected through two
 organisationally autonomous research groups: Media, Journalism and Film (UoA34) and Drama,
 Theatre and Performance (UoA33b).

 As a subject area, Media, Journalism and Film (MFJ) consists of 11 full-time permanent
 members of staff returned to the REF: two lecturers (Hessler, Irak), six senior lecturers (Hill,
 Litherland, McCulloch, Salamon, Saunders, Sorensen) and three professors (Hills, Johnson,
 Sandvoss). Three additional full-time staff members are completing their doctoral studies and do
 not qualify as having significant responsibility for research (Jones, Pringle, Stoker). MJF also
 includes two colleagues on industry practitioner contracts (0.5 FTE) without contractual
 responsibility for research.

 Research and impact strategy:
 In line with the University’s institutional strategy map (REF5a), MJF’s research and impact
 strategy during this REF period has been centred on transforming from a training-focused unit
 failing to achieve research excellence into a research-intensive subject area that is
 disciplinarily coherent, international, interdisciplinary and producing research with impact
 beyond academia. This included a significant programme of inward investment (£330K in total).

 Disciplinary coherence has focused on developing Huddersfield as an internationally-
 recognised centre for research in participatory culture and digital media platforms. These
 areas of Communications, Cultural and Media Studies are crucial in a contemporary media
 ecology characterised by convergence, platformisation and novel opportunities for participation
 by and between users/audiences and producers/industries. They also have specific relevance
 for industry, policy and civic society, enabling us to embed impact and knowledge exchange into
 the heart of our strategy. Our research expertise encompasses both contemporary and
 historically-grounded analyses of forms of media use and participation and their interplay with
 technologies, industries and socio-political change. This disciplinary coherence is given breadth
 through expertise that cuts across film, TV and screen media, political communication,
 journalism, media sport, popular music and gaming.

 Our research in participatory culture and digital platforms centres the experiences of
 users/audiences in order to critically address the changing ways in which different forms of
 media and culture shape societies, economies and politics. Our international reputation in this
 area was bolstered through the appointment of two major figures in fan and audience studies as
 Professors to the unit (Sandvoss in 2015 and Hills in 2016). Notable examples of our research in


                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 this area include: underexplored aspects of audience practice, such as theatre, art and literature
 fandoms (Hills), the intersections of political participation, (anti-)fandom and populism
 (Sandvoss), the interplay between politics and sports fandom in Turkey (Irak), histories of the
 production, dissemination and consumption of sporting and gaming entertainments, including the
 first full-length study of British professional wrestling (Litherland), and women’s experiences with
 music, whether as fans of metal or in negotiating sexual violence at gigs (Hill).

 A key theme running through MJF’s research into media participation is the impact of
 digitalisation and platformisation on people’s experiences of, and engagement with, the
 media. Here our research draws on political economy, cultural and media industry approaches.
 The appointment of Johnson as Professor in 2019 brought an internationally-recognised
 research leader in screen media industries to strengthen our research in this area. Notable
 examples include: co-directing a 5-year international study of the post-Disney Star Wars
 franchise and its audiences (McCulloch), theorising the ways in which online TV works to
 constrain user agency (Johnson), analysing people’s engagement with data visualisations (Hill),
 and tracing changing practices of audience measurement in the TV industry (Hessler). This
 research extends more broadly into critical inquiries into the impact of digital media
 platforms on cultural labour, representation, identity and political communication. Notable
 examples include: evidencing the importance of online pornography to understanding digital
 economics and labour (Saunders), demonstrating the intersection of digital media, populism and
 democratisation (Sorensen), and identifying e-lancers as a new category of digital labour in a
 platform economy (Salamon).

 This disciplinary coherence is reflected in the creation of new undergraduate and postgraduate
 programmes, including an MA in Participatory Culture, enabling synergies between research
 excellence and teaching.

 MJF’s research in participatory culture and digital media platforms was given formal structure
 through the launch of the Centre for Participatory Culture (CPC) in 2017, led by Hills, of which
 all research-active staff and PGR students within the unit are members. The CPC advances
 understanding of the cultures, identities and experiences of participation across popular culture,
 media, arts, politics and beyond, and the role of industries and media technologies in facilitating
 and/or restricting cultures of participation. Notable activities include hosting the 3-day
 international Fan Studies Network conference in 2017, with participants from 19 countries.

 Internationalisation has been fostered further through a recruitment strategy focused on
 international reach and excellence. The share of international staff has increased from under 6%
 at the beginning of the REF cycle to over 25% by the census date. Our internationalisation
 strategy aligns with the University’s strategic emphasis on international research partnerships
 leading to co-authored publications and research funding applications (REF5a) and has been
 underpinned by three successful bids to the University’s strategic internationalisation research
 fund in 2019 for £15,185 to pump-prime projects with partners in the USA and Australia. The
 international profile of MJF is strengthened by the leadership roles our staff have occupied in
 three international subject associations. Combined, these activities have strengthened our
 engagement with international research communities, leading to links with more than 20
 overseas institutions and co-organisation of seven overseas conferences.

 Interdisciplinary research is core to our identity as a unit and our staff have collaborated with
 scholars in multiple disciplines, including music, gender, sociology, politics, performance and
 health studies. The CPC provides a focal point for developing and sustaining interdisciplinary

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research. Membership is drawn from staff across six Schools/Departments within the University
 working in areas that include participatory action research, user experience design, marketing,
 and music fandom. Interdisciplinary collaborations stemming from the CPC include: a bid to the
 AHRC (awaiting outcome) with the Department of Behavioural and Social Sciences to explore
 the impact of COVID-19 on the construction of participatory communities, and a successful bid
 with the Department of Politics to the University Research Fund (URF) for £11,900 to undertake
 a pilot project into the performance of democracy in transitional democratic states.

 The unit leads two interdisciplinary Areas of Strategic Research Importance (ASRIs) that
 respond to societal and economic challenges and end user need and are used to inform internal
 resource allocation through the URF: Digital Cultures and Screen Media, and Participatory
 Culture and Social Media (REF5a). The formation of the Department of Media and Performance
 in 2019 further strengthens interdisciplinary research within the unit in relation to screen media,
 politics, performance and fandom. This forms part of a broader School-wide collaboration with
 the Yorkshire Film and Television School (formally launching in 2021).

 Impact has been enabled through a strategic focus on creating distinctive research on digital
 and participatory cultures that drives positive social, cultural and economic change. This
 is exemplified in the unit’s impact case studies. Healthy Music Audiences combines audience
 research methods with issues of identity and industry collaboration in order to translate research
 into guidelines that have helped the music industry combat sexual violence at live events.
 Routes to Content utilises industrial and audience research into the discoverability and
 prominence of audiovisual content to shape industry strategy and media policy and strengthen
 public service broadcasting. Both case studies have been supported by financial investment
 from the University of almost £40K and impact sabbaticals for the lead impact case study
 authors.

 These case studies epitomise our strategic approach to impact, which aligns with the
 Concordat for Public Engagement with Research and operates along the principle that impact is
 often best generated by producing research in consultation and collaboration with user
 communities. This non-linear approach of involving stakeholders as partners in the research
 facilitates uptake of the findings and enables the construction of on-going relationships,
 evidenced by Hill’s appointment as a trustee of White Ribbon and Johnson’s continuing work
 with Channel 4. The success of this strategy is observable in our growing national and
 international reputation for research with value to industry, policy and wider civic society.
 Highlights include Hills’s presentation at a major fan convention (São Paolo Comic-con
 Experience, Brazil), funded by Brazilian broadcaster Globo (2017), Hill’s TEDx talk at Newcastle
 College (2019), Johnson’s appointment as special advisor to the Department of Digital, Culture,
 Media and Sport’s (DCMS) Inquiry into the Future of Public Service Broadcasting (2020) and
 invitation to speak at the prestigious European Broadcasting Union (EBU) Media Summit for
 executives across Europe’s public service broadcasters (2020).

 Beyond the impact case studies, the strategy of enabling the wider contribution of research
 through collaboration with user communities is reflected in the unit’s AHRC-funded
 Collaborative Doctoral Award (CDA) for a postgraduate research (PGR) student to explore how
 North Hill Apps might extend their app design expertise into the education sector. Our staff have
 also conducted research in dialogue with the data visualisation industry (Hill), international
 audience measurement companies, Nielsen and Kantar (Hessler), and journalists (Jones,
 Salamon, Stoker). Internally, the vitality of this research and impact culture has been supported
 by additional funding to further impact-oriented research projects. This includes £7,848 to

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support research on the visibility of female politicians in Nigerian media and just under £20K to
 support qualitative research on the interplay between political fandom and left-wing populism in
 the 2019 UK general election and an examination of the impact of political partisanship on
 engagement with health information during the COVID-19 outbreak. The growing reputation of
 the unit for research with impact is evidenced by the invitation to participate in two collaborative
 research projects (XR Stories and SIGN) that aim to support the development of the creative
 industries in the Yorkshire region. These projects involve MJF, Music, and Computer Science at
 the University of Huddersfield, demonstrating the ways in which the unit creates opportunities
 for research that is both impactful and interdisciplinary.

 The appointment in 2018 of two high-profile visiting professors from the media industries further
 embeds engagement with user communities into our research culture. John Wilson has
 expertise in managing strategic change in the wake of digitalisation at Johnston Press (now JPI
 Media). Neil Benson led Trinity Mirror’s (now Reach) digital-first transformation programme. The
 international reach of our impact is further evidenced through Saunders’s role as academic
 advisor for an opera in development by the Juillard School, New York. Beyond industry, our
 impact strategy facilitates public engagement with our research, both nationally and
 internationally. Highlights include presentations at the first ever festival of wrestling storytelling in
 Europe (2018) and at the major fan convention Gallifrey One in the USA (2018). Our staff are
 also regular contributors to parliamentary consultations.

 Ethics, integrity and open research:
 Research ethics and integrity are central to the vitality of MFJ’s research culture and are
 managed through the School Research Committee, which provides ethical approval for any
 research involving human subject data. School research ethics and integrity activities and action
 plans are reviewed annually by the University Research Committee to ensure that all units
 adhere to the principles of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and the University’s
 Code of Practice for Research. All staff and students have access to online research integrity
 training from Epigeum (which is compulsory for PGR students) and research leaders within MJF
 have received dedicated training on managing research integrity and misconduct.

 MJF is also supported by the School in progressing towards an open research environment to
 ensure that publicly funded research is accessible and transparent. Research and Enterprise
 assist staff in making outputs and data available in open access University repositories where
 possible, including providing funds to support the costs of open access publishing (REF5a). Staff
 within the unit are editorial board members of four open access journals and the unit hosts the
 journal, Participations: Journal of Audience and Reception Studies, which combines open
 access publishing with a process of open peer review to encourage a culture of critical-
 supportive reviewing.

 Having focused, in this REF period, on creating a thriving and inclusive research environment
 with an international reputation in participatory culture and digital platforms, moving forward our
 strategy is to capitalise on our upward trajectory to ensure the ongoing vitality and sustainability
 of our research in Communications, Cultural and Media Studies.

 To achieve this our aims for the next REF period are:

 A1. To consolidate our international reputation for research in participatory culture and digital
 platforms by building regional and international structures for collaborative and interdisciplinary
 research.

                                                                                                    Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 A2. To deepen and extend our expertise in platformisation, mediatisation, digital and screen
 media cultures through research focused on ‘routes to content’, which centres analysis on the
 ways in which media is encountered and experienced, and how this is structured through
 changing industrial, economic, political, social and technological forces.

 A3. To maintain and develop our research culture to generate impactful research that
 contributes to the creation and maintenance of diverse, pluralistic and democratic media
 environments and societies.

 A4. To further build investment and support in our research culture through increased funding.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy:
 Our staffing strategy for this REF period has sought to increase the research intensity of the unit
 through a combination of recruitment and staff development.

 Recruitment focused on attracting researchers with exceptional potential at different career
 stages to deepen the vitality and sustainability of MJF’s research culture, broaden the
 diversity of our unit, increase the international scope of our research, and expand our
 capacity to undertake research with impact. During the assessment period, the unit has
 made 14 academic appointments, six at lecturer, five at senior lecturer and three at professorial
 rank. The three professorial posts were created with the support of University-wide investment
 initiatives. Sandvoss’s appointment in 2015 was funded to lead the strategic development of the
 unit. Hills (2016) and Johnson (2019) were appointed under the University’s Research
 Excellence Staff Scheme designed to attract outstanding research leaders to the institution,
 including ring-fencing 50% of staff time for research over the first three years of appointment.
 Alongside established research leaders, we have sought to attract new talent to enrich our
 expertise in emergent areas of digital media scholarship (73% of returned staff are within 8 years
 of completing their PhDs and in their first full-time, permanent post). These include social media,
 performance and populism (Sorensen), online pornography and the digital economy (Saunders),
 and digital labour and unionisation (Salamon). All staff are HEA Fellows, apart from the three
 international colleagues appointed in 2020 who are actively working towards HEA fellowships.
 Increased diversity from 2014 to 2020 is evidenced by the share of female staff members
 rising from 25% to 50% (46% among returned staff), along with an increase in the
 international make-up of staff from 6% to 25% over this period.

 Staff development focused on strengthening research capability in line with the University’s
 strategic aim that all full-time staff hold a PhD and be research active (REF5a). The
 University has provided bursaries to enable six members of staff within the unit to study for
 doctoral degrees at the Universities of Cardiff, Goldsmiths, York and Huddersfield. Three
 members of the unit gained a PhD within this period with a further three nearing completion of
 their doctoral studies (with expected submission dates in 2020 and 2022). We have also
 supported industry practitioners on 0.5 FTE contracts without contractual responsibility for
 research to undertake postgraduate study through Departmental stipends, ensuring an inclusive
 research community that enables all staff to achieve their potential. The success of this strategy
 is evidenced by the number of full-time staff within the unit with a PhD increasing from 20%
 in 2014 to 80% by July 2020, which we expect to rise to 100% by 2022.



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Workload management has ensured that the workload of all academic staff in the unit, with the
 exception of those in managerial roles (Sandvoss), has exceeded contractual research time
 allocations significantly, with commonly no less than 35% of contract time dedicated to
 research activities. Our focus on the sustainability and future health of the unit is further
 reflected in the absence of short-term employment: all full-time staff are on permanent
 contracts, ensuring stability of employment in accordance with the Concordat to Support the
 Development of Researchers (REF5a).

 The University achieved National Wellbeing Charter accreditation in 2018 and all staff have
 access to SilverCloud, an on-demand digital mental health platform, in addition to 24/7 access to
 the University’s Wellbeing Service, and support from mental health first aiders. The University’s
 dedicated ‘Report and Support’ online tool ensures that all students, staff and visitors to the
 campus have a safe and supportive environment through which incidents of hate crimes,
 bullying, harassment, sexual violence and anti-social behaviour can be reported and addressed.
 This includes the opportunity to remain anonymous and to access one-to-one support from a
 Wellbeing Advisor.

 Staff development, research planning, and support for Early Career Researchers (ECRs):
 Staff development is managed through four layers of support. Staff retain autonomy over their
 individual research agendas. Six-monthly research audits with the unit’s research lead review
 achievements and focus on the strategic planning of research and impact. Research audits are
 integrated with staff appraisals to facilitate recognition and reward for research and impact.

 These two formal layers work alongside two informal layers of support. All research active staff
 are allocated a research mentor from the professoriate in the unit to provide a sustained
 informal relationship aimed at supporting staff in all aspects of their research and career
 development. The unit also has a strong culture of peer support and feedback, creating an
 inclusive research environment in which all staff feel personally invested. Peer support
 initiatives are developed bottom-up and include the creation of three research clusters
 (politics/identity, audiences/fans, and industries/production) that meet once a term, fortnightly
 research writing workshops and regular reading groups. Peer support and research autonomy
 are further embedded by involving all staff in the development of the unit’s research strategy
 through annual research awaydays and individual consultations. These informal structures work
 alongside a programme of regular research seminars and collaborative events organised
 through the CPC.

 These formal and informal layers of support have been complemented by the provision of
 institutional-level and subject-focused research training and development workshops. Central
 training from the University is mapped against the Vitae Researcher Development Framework
 (REF5a) and includes workshops on impact, research funding, output preparation, research
 integrity, postgraduate support and supervision, as well as leadership training through the
 Chartered Management Institution (CMI), enabling Sandvoss to achieve a CMI Fellowship.
 Given the focus of the unit on the study of audiences and participation, resource allocation has
 addressed the “relative paucity of methodological sophistication, especially, though not only, in
 relation to studies of audiences” noted by UoA36 in REF2014. In response the unit has offered
 methods day schools for staff and PGR students led by internationally recognised experts in
 quantitative social sciences (Prof. Ian Brunton-Smith) and computer-assisted qualitative data
 analysis software (Dr Graham Gibbs). We have also supported attendance at methods training
 operated through the National Centre for Research Methods as well as other methods-focused
 conferences, workshops and summer schools nationally and internationally, spending over £16K

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on methods training in this REF cycle. Identifying methods training opportunities are central to
 research audits and mentoring.

 Research active staff (including those undertaking PhDs) are eligible to apply for a sabbatical of
 one semester after eight semesters of service, or a year-long sabbatical after 16 semesters, to
 provide relief from all teaching and administration duties. While staff with PGR supervision
 responsibilities remain part of the supervisory team, co-supervision enables the unit to reduce
 the individual burden during sabbaticals. The unit operates a rota system so that staff can
 embed sabbaticals into research planning. Flexibility is built into the system, enabling staff to
 apply for two semesters of 50% leave (whilst retaining 50% of their regular teaching and
 administrative duties) if conducive to achieving their research objectives. Externally funded
 periods of leave fall outside of this policy and do not delay eligibility for sabbaticals. During the
 assessment period, three members of the unit were granted a research sabbatical, a
 consequence of the recent formation of MJF as a research-intensive subject area. We expect all
 research active staff in the unit to have completed a sabbatical by 2025.

 In addition to standard research sabbaticals, staff are eligible to apply for impact sabbaticals
 which are supported by School funding. The unit additionally supports impact work through
 reductions in non-research workload up to full sabbatical leave. Such allocations are in addition
 to general research time allocation and do not impact on eligibility for research sabbaticals. In
 preparation for REF2021 the unit awarded two impact sabbaticals to support the unit’s
 impact case studies and allocated an additional 2350 hours to support impact in addition
 to standard research time allocations through the Department’s workload model. These
 sabbaticals and workload allocations are essential to our impact strategy in enabling staff to
 have the time and flexibility to engage with national and international user communities.

 The system of staff development, support and training outlined above has been crucial to
 ensuring the vitality and sustainability of the unit given the high percentage of early career staff.
 At the census date the UoA had five ECRs (45% of returned staff) as defined by para.148 of
 the REF Guidance for submissions (IR from 1 August 2016) but who for various reasons chose
 not to declare their individual circumstances. We have focused significant resource on
 initiatives targeted specifically at ECRs. This has included:
  - a reduction in teaching and administrative workloads in the first three years of appointment
  - funding for international scholarly activities, including establishing/developing research
      collaborations, co-authorship and conference attendance
  - teaching buy-out for bid writing and preparation
  - short-term teaching relief or ‘mini-sabbaticals’ for the completion of publication projects
  - pump-priming for new research or impact.
 The success of these support mechanisms is reflected in the fact that four out of the six staff
 appointed to lecturer positions have gained promotion during this assessment cycle.

 Support for PGRs:
 Although only four PhDs have been awarded within this REF cycle, the number of registered
 students undertaking PGR programmes in Communications, Cultural and Media Studies has
 increased by over 350% from July 2013 to July 2020, demonstrating significant growth in
 our ability to attract excellent postgraduate researchers. The University’s Vice-Chancellor’s
 scheme offers fee-waiver scholarships to high-performing graduates from our undergraduate
 and masters programmes, enabling us to support talented students wishing to pursue
 postgraduate research. We also offer additional fee-waiver scholarships on a competitive basis
 that are open to all applicants. Eight students have benefitted from these schemes in the REF

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 period and early success is evidenced by one funded student securing employment at a Russell
 Group University. We have also received external funding for a PhD through the AHRC’s CDA
 scheme.

 All PGR students have a main and a second supervisor and receive at least one hour of
 supervision per month (typically more frequently). Supervisors and internal examiners receive
 dedicated training, with refresher courses every 3 years. Our inclusive research culture ensures
 that PGR students are integrated into our research environment through participation in
 research seminars, cluster meetings, training and membership of the CPC. These provide
 opportunities for informal contact with members of staff and to network with other academics
 nationally and internationally. Progression vivas are held after 9 and 21 months, for which students
 are required to submit an annual report detailing their progress and to discuss their research with
 a panel consisting of two academics from the subject area who are not involved in the student’s
 supervision. PGRs produce a Skills Audit at the start of their programme, enabling training to be
 embedded from the outset, and research training needs, including research integrity and ethics,
 form part of the discussion in progression vivas. PGR students are able to access a dedicated
 programme of in-person and online research training from the Graduate School which includes
 the University’s Teaching Assistant Preparation Programme which is required for all PGR students
 teaching within the Department. We provide opportunities to gain teaching experience to those
 students who wish to do so.

 We also support students in developing their research careers by attending and presenting at
 conferences. Doctoral students in the unit are eligible for £800 in support of conference attendance
 and can apply for additional funding through the early career support fund operated by the School.
 Employability is further enhanced by providing opportunities for PGR students to participate in
 research projects within the Department, including projects on political fandom and left-wing
 populism and our two impact case studies. Beyond Huddersfield, our staff have offered national
 and international PGR training, including a talk at the Transnational TV PhD course at Aarhus
 University, Denmark (2017), a keynote at a postgraduate conference at Royal Holloway University
 (2019), and a presentation at the University of London’s Screen Studies postgraduate training
 conference (2019).

 Equality, diversity and inclusion:
 MJF has addressed the significant gender imbalance within its staffing at the start of the REF
 period: the percentage of female staff increased from 25% to 50% and 50% of selected REF
 outputs are authored by female members of staff, in line with the University REF Code of
 Practice output selection criteria. The measures successfully implemented by the School to
 enhance gender equality during this REF cycle were recognised through an Athena Swan
 Bronze award in 2020. Additionally, the University runs LGBTQI+, BAME, Women, and Disability
 staff networks and has signed up to the Race Equality Charter. Equality, diversity and inclusion
 (EDI) and unconscious bias training form part of the induction programme for all staff involved in
 appointment panels and leadership roles. Anyone involved in REF-related advice or decision-
 making has undertaken additional EDI training, with refreshers every six months.

 EDI are standing items to all Departmental and School committees offering opportunities for
 continued reflection on enhancing processes and structures. These reflections have resulted in a
 number of changes to working practices during the assessment period: to support staff and
 PGRs with caring responsibilities, for instance, we have rescheduled all research activities
 (research seminars, CPC meetings, research cluster meetings and internal training) in lunch-
 time slots which are free from timetabled teaching. In accordance with the Concordat to Support

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Development of Researchers, we have provided the flexibility necessary for successful
 research performance by making adjustments to teaching in line with caring responsibilities. The
 gender imbalance of staff at the beginning of the REF period has been addressed through the
 Department’s recruitment strategy which has included ensuring person specifications fully reflect
 diversity and inclusivity in their role requirements. Staff input into the allocation of mentors
 enables the most appropriate support, such as the allocation of a female mentor for female
 members of staff if requested. Research audits and staff appraisals offer spaces to identify the
 specific requirements of individual researchers. Examples have included a shift in workload
 allocation between semesters to facilitate the needs of staff returning from parental leave. The
 University has a specific policy to ensure that pregnant PGR students and new parents receive
 equitable, fair and sensitive treatment, with sufficient flexibility to enable staff and postgraduate
 students to make informed decisions about the best ways to manage their research.

 An example of the unit’s management in meeting EDI challenges has been our response to the
 COVID-19 pandemic. The unit reacted promptly to the pandemic by reviewing all processes for
 research including fieldwork, research-related travel, and in situ interaction with participants,
 fellow researchers and other members of the Department in late February and implemented
 change in early March preceding wider closures of University campuses. This included
 advancing the integration of home and office working through the use of digital workflow
 software, scheduling apps, databases and video conferencing platforms. Staff on sabbatical
 leave were able to request additional leave if the impact of family and caring responsibilities
 during the COVID-19 pandemic adversely impacted on the sabbatical period.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding and strategies for generating research income:
 MJF’s research income total of £69,864 reflects the transition of the unit during the REF cycle.
 Our strategy within this REF period regarding research funding has focused on building
 capacity and providing inward investment in order to strengthen the number, size, diversity
 and quality of bids submitted. The success of this strategy is reflected in the increased number
 and size of research bids submitted over the census period. In the 2018-19 and 2019-20
 academic years the unit submitted 15 bids worth £1,510,903 compared to 17 bids worth a total
 of £520,829 over the previous 5 years. With 50% of submitted staff appointed since 2018 we
 anticipate that the impact of this strategy will be felt fully in terms of research income in the next
 REF period.

 MJF’s strategy for generating research income is underpinned by the philosophy that a strong
 foundation for support across the research cycle enhances the quantity, quality and
 success rate of bids submitted. Alongside dedicated funding to support the development of
 research projects and collaborations, research audits direct staff towards internal and external
 support for funding, impact and methods training, and mentors offer constructive feedback on
 research in progress, review draft publications and funding bids, and offer guidance on
 publication and funding strategy. Staff development structures, internal funding and the
 organisational infrastructures outlined below emphasise support for ECRs with less experience
 in applying for research funding. For example, Sorensen and Litherland have received School
 funding targeted specifically at ECRs to support their research. Submission of research bids is
 further incentivised by ensuring that all staff receive full buy-out for any time costed within a
 funding application in addition to research time allocated in their workload.




                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Combined, these measures have helped to increase the number of bids submitted and
 diversify the sources of funding, including seven bids to European funders and
 interdisciplinary bids to Wellcome and the AHRC. We have begun to have success in securing
 funding from non-standard sources. In the REF period this has included £2,000 from the
 Association of Journalism Education to support research into journalism ethics by one of our
 staff members pursuing a PhD and £1,000 from the Being Human Festival to fund the ‘Wrestling
 Resurgence’ event attended by over 100 people that drew on Litherland’s research into wrestling
 culture. Participation in the SIGN project (funded by Research England and starting in April
 2020) brought with it £25K of funding, with the ability to apply for additional funds, although
 these have not yet been spent within this REF period. Johnson’s appointment as special advisor
 to the DCMS Select Committee (April 2020 – March 2021) is expected to generate a total of
 £8,800 (including £1,980 up to 31 July 2020).

 Organisational infrastructure for supporting research:
 The CPC provides a reading group, writing workshops, weekly research seminars with internal
 and external speakers, conferences and events for staff and PGRs within and beyond the unit.
 The CPC has hosted regional, national and international scholars presenting research on issues
 such as streaming and its environmental impacts (University of Leeds); transmedia engagement
 (University of Salford); ethnographies of algorithmic culture (University of Sussex); and media
 convergence in China (Anhui Normal University). Collaboration is further fostered by the
 development of the Yorkshire Film and Television School (YFTS), an interdisciplinary
 partnership building on expertise across the School in media industries, screen studies,
 screenwriting, music and screen performance. Collaborative research is a core component of
 the strategy for the YFTS, which has already led to the submission of a cross-school bid to the
 Leverhulme Doctoral Scholarships scheme. Interdisciplinary research is also facilitated through
 staff membership of other research centres within the University, such as the Secure Societies
 Institute and the Centre for Music, Culture and Identity.

 Over this REF period, staff within the unit have had success in applying for a total of £232K
 from a range of School/University schemes to support research and impact. These funds
 have pump-primed new projects leading to outputs and major research bids, supported impact,
 and enabled staff to network with international research collaborators. The unit also benefits
 from devolved and autonomous research funding which has supplemented School/University
 research initiatives enabling us to control the implementation of our research strategy. In
 addition to the School/University funding above, a total of £98K of unit-specific funds have
 been used to provide almost £44K to pump-prime research projects and support impact, £31K
 for dissemination, £16k for research/methods training and £7K to support PGRs/visiting
 scholars. The unit offers uncapped financial support to all research-active staff for research
 activities, including conference attendance/organisation, empirical research, bid development,
 fieldwork, archive visits, training, hardware and license fees, with all applications fully funded
 in the REF period.

 As part of the School of Music, Humanities and Media, one of the University’s most research-
 intensive and successful Schools measured by REF2014 outcomes, the unit has benefitted from
 an institution-leading research culture providing support from scholars with strong track
 records in research funding applications. For example, when developing funding bids staff within
 the unit receive mentoring from experienced researchers across the School with a record of
 success in the same scheme. The School’s internal peer review process additionally ensures all
 bids receive feedback from two senior academics in the School.


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Beyond the University, the unit has seized opportunities to participate in regional initiatives (such
 as SIGN and XR Stories) that provide additional infrastructural support in the form of research
 networks and funding. It has also developed strategic relationships with regional
 stakeholders, such as the BBC, Channel 4 and Kirkless Council. Given our research strengths
 in the intersections of audiences/users and industries/producers, these strong links with regional
 user communities provide a vital additional structure for supporting the future health, and
 enabling the wider contribution of, our research.

 Operational infrastructure for supporting research:
 Within the School, MJF is supported through a dedicated Research Development Manager
 who provides training and one-to-one support in developing funding applications, alongside a
 wider post-award team. The appointment of a permanent School Impact Officer in 2016
 provides specialist expertise in impact strategy, evaluation and stakeholder engagement. The
 impact case study authors have also benefitted from four impact training sessions over the REF
 period.

 MJF is based in its own dedicated building. It includes two TV studios and five radio studios.
 Industry-standard editing software from both AVID and the Adobe Creative Suite is available
 across more than 60 machines, along with more than 50 JVC and Panasonic video camera kits,
 plus a similar number of audio recorders and mobile devices, all supported by a dedicated
 technical team. Research assistants and doctoral students in MJF have an allocated room within
 the building in which to work. PGR students additionally have use of a dedicated study space
 within the newly built Oastler Building, which also provides a space for large-scale research
 events and presentations. Elsewhere on campus there is a purpose-built film screening room. To
 support our interdisciplinary research in screen media through the YFTS, the University is
 investing in building a circa 300m2 single-camera sound stage. All staff and students have
 access to a wide range of software, databases and online journal packages, including Qualtrics,
 SPSS, NVivo, ScienceDirect, Wiley, Taylor & Francis, Project Muse, OUP etc. In addition, the
 library provides a free interlibrary loan service to access resources beyond the available
 collections and a subscription to Box of Broadcasts. Subject and academic librarians are
 assigned to each subject area and the library contributes to a programme of skills development
 sessions for PGR students throughout their studies. The unit has also invested in institutional
 membership of the Association of Journalism Education (AJE), International Communication
 Association (ICA) and the Media Communication and Cultural Studies Association (MeCCSA).

 The operational, organisational, formal and informal support structures outlined above provide a
 thriving, inclusive and sustainable research culture to ensure the future health of the unit.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Support for the effectiveness of research collaborations, networks and partnerships:
 As detailed above, the unit has invested in engaging with international research
 communities, leading to relationships with over 20 overseas universities. These collaborations
 have resulted in co-authored publications (with universities in Norway, Switzerland, Sweden,
 Australia and South Africa), a teaching exchange with Hochschule Kunste Bern in Switzerland,
 invitations to be on the advisory board of two bids submitted in Denmark, and the organisation of
 multiple conferences including overseas conferences held in the USA, Australia, Finland and the
 Czech Republic. Four research funding bids have been submitted through these international
 collaborations, with a further four research bids in preparation for submission by 2022 with
 international partners in Portugal, Denmark, the Czech Republic, Italy, Australia and Canada.


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University’s strategic internationalisation research fund enabled the creation of three
 ongoing research collaborations with strategic international partners. One project focuses
 on how people find and discover media content, in collaboration with leading scholars of
 streaming media at the University of Wisconsin, Madison (USA), QUT and RMIT (Australia). A
 second examines the global challenge of sexual violence in the music industry in collaboration
 with scholars at the University of Melbourne and RMIT (Australia). The final project, in
 collaboration with the University of Technology, Sydney and QUT (Australia), is developing new
 methods to study the role of technologies in the contested representations of events. Two of
 these build out of research underpinning our impact case studies, ensuring the sustainability of
 our internationalisation and impact strategies.

 Through leadership roles in international subject associations our staff have contributed to
 the future direction of Communications, Cultural and Media Studies. Johnson is Chair of the
 Media Industries and Cultural Production Section of the European Communication Research
 and Education Association (ECREA), McCulloch is founder and board member of the Fan
 Studies Network (the international academic organisation for Fan Studies), and Salamon acts as
 Lead Research Chair for the Culture and Critical Studies Division of the Association for
 Education in Journalism and Mass Communication (AEJMC). In addition, Stoker is a member of
 MeCCSA’s Local News Network and Irak is an Associate Research Fellow of Medialab at the
 Paris Institute of Political Studies, part of ICEMEC Mediterranean Ethnography Lab at Université
 Aix-Marseille in France and works with the Diasporas Lab at Université Paris Tech. Staff within
 the unit have also participated in major national and international collaborative research projects
 (detailed below).

 Engagement with key research beneficiaries and diverse publics:
 The unit has sought to build on Huddersfield’s position between Salford (home of MediaCityUK)
 and Leeds (Channel 4’s new national headquarters, and home to Nielsen in the UK and Sky’s
 Digital and Technology Services campus) to develop strategic regional partnerships with key
 research users. Investment in Johnson’s impact-related research has led to relationships with
 Channel 4 and the BBC that inform ongoing research on routes to content. Hessler’s
 appointment expands established relationship with Nielsen in the US to the UK. Given
 Yorkshire’s vibrant music industry – Leeds and Sheffield have dedicated local music boards and
 music is one of Kirkless council’s strategic growth areas – the unit’s investment in Hill’s research
 on live music-going has created strategic partnerships with local councils and music venues
 informing on-going research in this area.

 As a unit with a focus on audiences and media users, engaging publics in our research is
 central to our wider contribution. Our research appears regularly in the press, including articles
 in the Financial Times, BBC News website, Metro Online, Wired, International Business Times,
 Media Lawyer, Yorkshire Post, Hold the Front Page and Yorkshire Evening Post, as well as in
 articles for The Conversation reaching a total of 131,778 readers. Our staff have appeared on
 national and international radio programmes and podcasts, such as Radio One, Radio Leeds,
 TalkSport (2014), ABC Radio, Australia (2016), the Bang to Rights podcast (2018), and Swedish
 National Radio (2019). We have presented our research to local, national and international
 public-facing conferences and events, including a talk about the Leveson inquiry to the
 University of the Third Age (2014), a presentation at the Burning Hammer Film Festival in
 London (2018), presentations at two major international fan conventions in Brazil (2017) and the
 USA (2018), and a presentation at the annual conference for the consumer group, Voice of the
 Viewer and Listener (2019). Our staff have also organised conferences that bring research
 and user communities together. This has included the Historia Ludens conference on gaming

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and history (2017) with journalists and museums (SS Great Britain Trust and the Royal
 Armouries), and the British Wrestling: History and Resurgence conference (2018) with wrestling
 fans and some of Britain’s leading wrestlers, and a live wrestling show, resulting in the
 development of a full-time wrestling programme, Wrestling Resurgence.

 We have a strong commitment to sharing research with our local community. Staff within
 the unit have presented and/or helped to organise a range of local festivals, including the
 Holmfirth Film Festival (2014-16), Huddersfield Histories (2014), Louder than Words Festival
 (2014), the Huddersfield Literary Festival (2014), the Deer Shed Festival (2014, 2017), and the
 Holmfirth Arts Festival (2018). We’ve engaged with ITV Yorkshire Studios, Barnsley FC,
 Yorkshire Cricket Club, Halifax Rugby League, Northern Lights Media, Branch FM Radio, The
 Yorkshire Post, The Huddersfield Examiner and independent local newspapers through
 numerous meetings and workshops, and provided mentoring and consultancy to Reach Beyond,
 HCJB-UK in Bradford (2016-18). This reflects our strong connections with the journalism sector,
 including the Press Association, Broadcast Journalism Training Council, Trinity Mirror/Reach
 and Johnston Press/JPI Media, which helped to secure two high profile visiting professors (from
 Johnston Press and Trinity Mirror) in 2018.

 Contribution to the economy and society:
 The contribution of our research to the economy and society is evidenced by an increase in the
 engagement of national and international user communities with our research, particularly
 in relation to the music and television industries. Through investment in impact-related research
 and activities our research has supported the work of not-for-profit organisations, venues,
 councils and workers in the music industry, including Kirklees Council and the Musicians Union
 (representing 32,000 musicians in the UK). Our TV-related research has been shared with major
 UK and international broadcasters (from the BBC to Disney), platforms (YouTube), media
 research and marketing agencies (Red Bee Creative, Truth), regulators (Ofcom), international
 industry bodies (EBU), and UK and international policy-makers (DCMS, Department of
 Telecommunications and Postal Services in South Africa). Our staff have collaborated with
 global audience research organisations (Nielsen, Kantar), judged the Royal Television Society’s
 annual awards, and presented at a range of industry-oriented events. Highlights include
 presentations at: the Australian Centre for Moving Image in Melbourne (2017), the annual
 Innovating Media Economics conference in Belgium (2019) organised by MediaHub (a R&I hub
 supported by the Flemish government), the AHRC-funded Public Service Media Network’s
 conference in 2019 that brought together academic and industry stakeholders (2019), and
 business engagement events oriented to the local economy at the 3M Buckley Innovation Centre
 at the University of Huddersfield (2019).

 Research within the unit has also contributed to policy development. Our research has been
 shared with over 30 MPs and Lords and our staff have advised government committees (the
 DCMS Select Committee’s Inquiry into the Future of Public Service Broadcasting) and
 contributed to five government/regulatory inquiries: the Public Interest Test consultation on BBC
 iPlayer (2019), the House of Lords Select Committee Inquiry on Democracy and Digital
 Technologies (2019), the House of Lords Select Committee Inquiry on Public Service
 Broadcasting (2019), the Cairncross Review into the Future of Journalism in the UK (2019) and
 the House of Lords Communications and Digital Committee Inquiry into the Future of Journalism
 (2020).

 Contribution to sustainability of the discipline:


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Interdisciplinarity is core to our identity as a unit, supported by the CPC, with particular emphasis
 on collaborating with scholars across multiple disciplines, including music, gender,
 sociology, politics, performance, and health studies. Our location in the School of Music,
 Humanities and Media strengthens our interdisciplinary research in music and performance. In
 addition to the activities outlined above, we have particular strengths in metal music, evidenced
 by Hill’s position as editor for the Metal Music and Culture book series (2016-present) and
 position on the editorial advisory board for Metal Music Studies (2013-present). Interdisciplinary
 research related to performance, has been strengthened through our new Departmental
 structure with Drama and Theatre Studies and broader links with performance studies at the
 University of the Arts in London. Much of our research is also deeply concerned with gender and
 identity, bolstered by collaborations with the Leicester Media School at De Montfort University
 (on a BA/Leverhulme project on sexual violence and popular music), the Department of
 Sociology at the University of York (on a doctoral project on visualising data for diverse users),
 and two funding bids submitted with Orebro University, Sweden (2019). We have collaborated
 with colleagues in Behavioural and Social Sciences, and Politics at the University of
 Huddersfield, building on the interdisciplinary links opened up by the CPC. Our researchers have
 collaborated with health studies scholars at the University of Exeter (on on-going research into
 the temporalities of healthcare) and the University of Nottingham (leading to a Wellcome bid on
 the televising of childbirth in 2019).

 Our wider contribution to Communication, Cultural and Media Studies is further evidenced
 though collaborations on major international and national research projects, including:
     co-directing the World Star Wars Project, a five-year multi-perspectival study of the
        franchise with the University of Bournemouth,
     collaborating on the design of the Game of Thrones Audience Research Project,
        conducted by over 40 researchers around the world,
     co-founding the 13 Reasons Why Netflix Audiences Project, a collaboration across six
        UK Universities,
     participating in XR Stories and SIGN, funded by Research England, which supports our
        strategy to respond to the growth of the screen industries in the Yorkshire region.

 Influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base:
 Over the REF period, the 11 Category A staff in post on the 31 July 2020 have been invited to
 give keynote/plenary presentations at 27 international conferences and have presented at
 an additional 38 international conferences. Highlights include keynotes at the inaugural
 Australian Fan Studies Network conference (held at the University of Wollongong in 2017) and
 the first ever fan studies conference held in Poland (at Jegiellonian University in Cracow in
 2019). Nationally, our staff have given 15 keynotes/plenaries and presented at 31 conferences.
 In addition, they have shared their research at 16 university research seminars, including four
 presentations at international universities, such as the Global Fandom and Digital Culture
 Summer School at the University of Aarhus, Denmark (2019) and the Renegade Audiences
 Workshop at Erasmus University in the Netherlands (2020). Our staff have been involved in
 organising 10 conferences (one postponed due to COVID-19), four national public engagement
 workshops, and one international masterclass in Australia.

 Category A staff in post at the submission date have also contributed to scholarship through
 external examination of 22 PhDs (10 of which were international), and editorial board
 memberships of 19 journals, including leading international publications, such as the Journal
 of Cinema and Media Studies, Television and New Media, Communication, Culture and Critique


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and the International Journal of Cultural Studies. Our staff have reviewed for 34 journals and 16
 book publishers. They edit/co-edit two book series and are on the advisory board for one further
 book series. They are involved in reviewing national and international funding bids, such as for
 the AHRC (including through membership of the AHRC Peer Review College), the Dutch
 Research Council (NOW) and the Canadian Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council
 (SSHRC). Our research has been recognised in three international awards/grants from external
 bodies: a Fulbright Scholarship, a funded place at the Scripps Howard Journalism
 Entrepreneurship Institute, Arizona State University, and an Outstanding Article Award from the
 Popular Communication Division of the ICA. Combined this evidences the international
 reputation and wider contribution of MJF’s research.




                                                                                           Page 15
