Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Abertay University

 Unit of Assessment: 21 Sociology

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context and structure
 Abertay is a small, cohesive University that in recent years has developed a significant
 reputation, including being named the top modern university in Scotland (Guardian Good
 University Guide 2019; Times/Sunday Times Good University Guide 2017). The Sociology Unit
 has contributed significantly to these achievements.

 UoA21 sits within the Division of Sociology, part of the School of Business, Law and Social
 Sciences (BLS), and was submitted for the first time to REF2014. As a relatively small Unit we
 laid the foundations to improve research, income, and impact. One indication of this is that the
 number of staff being submitted by the Unit has increased from 7 FTE for REF2014 to 10 FTE
 for REF2021.

 The Unit operates within the context of Abertay’s RKE Strategy (2014-19 & 2020-25), R-
 LINCS: Research-Led Innovation Nodes for Contemporary Society. RKE governance is
 managed by Abertay’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee. The R-LINCS strategy
 is overseen by Abertay’s Research Executive, led by the Dean of Research, and implemented
 by Theme Leaders. R-LINCS integrates our research into a single Abertay-wide initiative
 designed to capitalise on our cohesive, focused, and collaborative nature. R-LINCS bridges
 conventional boundaries between research disciplines to devise innovative interdisciplinary
 approaches that deliver research with impact.

 R-LINCS 2014-19 had 4 cross-cutting themes: Environment, Security, Society and Creative
 Industries. R-LINCS provides:
    -        A single, pan-University research leadership to drive our discipline strengths and
             interdisciplinary research agenda and foster external collaborations, including with
             external organisations (Sections 1, 3 and 4);
    -        A cross-University Graduate School, which offers us a coherent, Abertay-wide
             integrated training programme for staff and PGR students (Section 2);
    -        Intra- and inter-theme support for RKE (including funded doctoral studentships)
             (Section 1, 3);
    -        Facilitation of public engagement (Section 4).

 UoA21 research integrity and progress towards an open research environment wholly aligns
 with the institution. Abertay fully engages with (and is a signatory to CSCDR and KEC):
     -       the principles of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity (CSRI)
     -       the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (CSCDR)
     -       the Knowledge Exchange Concordat (KEC)
     -       the Concordat on Open Research Data (CORD)
     -       the Concordat for Engaging the Public with Research (CEPR), which we use to guide
             development of supportive RKE policies, practices, and structures (see Section 2).

 We are compliant with our CSRI commitments: all staff and students are required to adhere to
 the highest standards of integrity in the conduct of their research as set out in the Abertay
 Research Code of Conduct (ARCoC) and engage in mandatory research integrity training
 (including GDPR for Researchers).

 The University has taken important strides to develop an open research environment.
 Published outputs are, wherever possible, open-access compliant. We are working towards
 open access compliance with our research data by 12/2021. Our Open Access and Research
 Data Management Policies, researcher development training and individual support is provided
 by our dedicated Research Support Manager, increasing staff engagement with open research,

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pre-registration, and open-access data repositories. We are committed to the responsible use of
 metrics in research evaluation and are a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on
 Research Assessment (DORA). Our policy and practice on research metrics for research
 assessment is included within our ARCoC and informs our Recruitment and Promotions policies
 and procedures, and our REF Code of Practice.

 1.2 Research and impact strategy
 Our overall Unit strategy is to deliver research with impact, combining academic excellence with
 stakeholder collaboration. University investment in the Unit has enabled us to attract and support
 research active staff and to take a strategic approach to building research capacity and a vibrant
 research culture, as we outlined in 2014 (section 2). Since then, the Sociology Unit has been on
 a trajectory of fostering researcher development as evident in our focus on improving the quality
 of research outputs and impact and increasing research income.

 A well-defined income generation strategy took advantage of the R-LINCS interdisciplinary
 approach to research, in particular focusing on the digital society and on societal issues
 associated with novel digital technologies and helped foment close collaboration with Abertay
 colleagues in other Units (in particular UoA12 and UoA32). As a result, research income has
 increased eightfold across the assessment period (section 3). Such progress has allowed us
 both to meet the strategic objectives set out in the last assessment period and to articulate
 achievable, sustainable future goals for research and impact.

 Our 2014 strategic objectives were to:

     1. produce national and internationally recognised research which prioritises external
        impact
     2. contribute productively to the work of R-LINCS research themes (Society; Security;
        Environment; Creative Industries)
     3. increase annual research income through individual and collaborative funding
        applications

 The achievement of objective one is reflected in the improved quality of research outputs
 across a wider range of staff being submitted by the Unit. We have strengthened our research
 profile nationally and internationally, particularly in areas of sociological theory, digital sociology,
 and criminal justice policy. Sociological research at Abertay clusters into three research areas:
 Applied Social Theory (Law, Marron, Memos, McNeish, Moir, Waiton); Crime & Society
 (Martin, Graham, Rogers, Waiton, De Paoli); and Sociology of Information and
 Communication Technologies (De Paoli, Moir); with points of overlap in substantive fields like
 cybersecurity, environment, and socio-political and policy change in Scotland.

 Objective one was achieved by prioritising quality outputs and external impact in a targeted way
 through the use of personal appraisals, workload planning, resource allocation, appointments,
 and accessing institutional support. We appointed staff working on ‘real world’ projects (e.g.,
 Graham and Martin on policing; Rogers on gender-based violence) and set personal research
 impact objectives in appraisals to ensure that sufficient research time and resource was
 allocated to enable activity relevant to research quality outputs and external impact.

 Making research conducive to impact is facilitated by our Research, Enterprise and Innovation
 Service (REIS) and the Graduate School. Individual researchers are supported to identify
 relevant funding schemes, prepare project proposals and organise advanced training in
 communications, dissemination and impact. For example, research staff participated in Impact
 training workshops led by ‘Fast Track Impact’ consultant Professor Mark Reed in 2016 and
 2017. The Graduate School provide training on effective engagement with non-academic
 audiences as well as disseminating research through the media (including social media). This is
 buttressed by External and Corporate Relations support for press releases and organisation and
 marketing of conferences hosted by the Unit at Abertay, such as the BSA Early Career Forum
 Regional Event in 2019 and the Borders, Racisms and Resistance conference in 2017.

                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Both of our REF2021 Impact Case Studies emerged directly from our strategy of fostering
 research with wider application. The realisation of impact depends on institutional support for
 building and replenishing relationships with a focussed range of stakeholders. Graham (ICS-1)
 was appointed as part of this strategy to work on the relation between policing and society,
 bringing with him a wealth of expertise and access from his previous role as a senior police
 officer. From a more established academic vantage point, Waiton (ICS-2) worked with a range of
 stakeholders to generate impact from his more theoretically inclined work on the decline of
 liberal subjectivity, leading to the repeal of national legislation in Scotland.

 Our impact is far more wide-ranging that demonstrated in the Impact Case Studies alone
 (section 4). Our strategy for impact focusses on supporting the effective dissemination,
 knowledge exchange and creation of partnerships, in particular in the areas of applied research
 on Information and Communication Technologies (De Paoli), policing, criminal justice systems
 and public policy (Graham, Martin, Rogers, Waiton), and environment (Rogers, McNeish).
 Impacts in these areas have been realised through the repeal of legislation, changes in policing
 practices and organisational cultures, the role of Information and Communication Technologies
 in local communities, and community control of water resources in Africa.

 The achievement of objective two is reflected in the contribution of UoA21 to R-LINCS and
 research leadership. UoA21 staff achieved objective 2 by making significant contributions to
 the R-LINCS ‘Society’ and ‘Security’ research themes, including the provision of two University
 level Theme Leaders during the assessment period. While our work is grounded in Sociology it
 is shaped by the prominence given to collaborative and interdisciplinary research in the Abertay
 RKE strategy. Examples include, working across the university with colleagues with expertise in
 digital technologies (cybersecurity and computer games), with psychologists working on human
 interaction with self-service machines, and with civil engineers working on water management in
 Africa.

 Sustainable interdisciplinary research is fostered by strategic University investment in
 postgraduate studentships as well as from external funding for studentships that enable us to
 bring together supervisory teams contributing different specialisms. Building research capacity
 benefitted from the R-LINCS award of 4 fully funded PhD studentships to UoA21 during the
 assessment period, while the ‘Futures Scholarship’ scheme has provided a further 2
 postgraduate fee waivers. In such ways, Abertay materially supports the development of the
 postgraduate student base, supervisory training, and the research output and impact of staff.

 The achievement of objective three is reflected in a significant increase in research income to
 conduct interdisciplinary research. This objective was achieved by the active establishment and
 maintenance of strong national and international research collaborations, in particular
 partnering institutions and organisations (such as SMEs) working in the areas of computer
 science (broadly defined), design and other social sciences.

 Objective 3 was achieved by continuous participation in research funding events, both nationally
 and at European level, in order to explore opportunities and build collaborations. In support of
 this goal, we drew upon the opportunities for interdisciplinary collaborations opened up by R-
 LINCS and the allocation of time and resource for international networking and grant writing by
 the Division and the School. Our strategy led to a sharp increase in our annual research income
 through individual and collaborative funding applications (section 3). Most of these funding
 streams are associated with international collaborations created and maintained during the
 assessment period.

 1.3 Future plans
 At an institutional level the next five years of Unit-level research will be guided by the
 University’s updated RKE strategy: R-LINCS 2020-25 re-envisages our 2014-19 research
 themes in terms of a number of ‘Challenge Spaces’ that shape the contemporary world (Figure
 1). In a new development we are building research leadership in ‘Pooled Excellence’, i.e.,

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 distinct approaches and ways of working that cross-cut Challenge Space areas and the
 disciplinary strengths of academic Divisions.




 The strategic objectives for the Unit over the next five years are as follows:

    1. Increase the number of research outputs across the Unit recognised as internationally
       excellent contributions to the discipline
    2. Increase our research income to sustain and enhance our research capabilities
    3. Exert an impact beyond academia which yields economic, social, and cultural benefits
       by developing partnerships with a wider set of societal actors

 We will achieve our first objective by enacting processes of mentoring and support for writing
 high-quality published outputs, particularly for early career colleagues, in line with the BLS
 School target that 75 percent of staff will be producing 3* outputs by the time of the next REF. A
 group was formed at the end of 2020 within BLS, led by Professor Law, tasked with supporting
 colleagues to develop a consistent thematic focus to raise the quality and reputation of their
 outputs over time. A key role in this process is the annual Development Discussions that staff
 have with their line manager to support the research aspirations and developmental needs of
 individuals. Staff are also guided to seek out external sources of support provided by inter-
 University Scottish Research Pools, the Scottish Graduate Schools, Scottish Institute of Policing
 Research (SIPR) and internal R-LINCS opportunities for research collaboration and the research
 training offered by the Graduate School (section 2). This helps ensure that a body of high-quality
 outputs underpins our research profile and makes a major contribution to the discipline.

 We will achieve our second objective by leveraging the track-record and networks that were
 built during the current assessment period and by extending the range of organisations that we

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborate with. We have plans to establish a research lab which will enhance our research
 capacity to submit successful applications for competitive funding (section 3). In line with
 Abertay’s RKE strategy and BLS’s operational plan to increase income generation, we will seek
 to support and increase the number of people and applications being submitted for competitive
 funding and thus make our approach to research funding sustainable over the longer term. This
 will be achieved by targeted mentoring at the earliest stage in the development of funding
 proposals before they are submitted to the formal internal peer review process. A group was
 formed at the end of 2020 within BLS, led by Professor De Paoli, tasked with supporting early
 career colleagues with their proposal writing and submission in tandem with the dedicated
 support provided by the Graduate School

 We will achieve our third objective by more concertedly seeking partners to secure applied
 outcomes for our research. To this end, a group was formed at the end of 2020 within BLS, led
 by Professor Martin, tasked with developing collaborative partnerships, which can lead to
 research applications and increased impact. Working towards the external impact of research
 will form a vital element of personal research plans and form part of the Development Discussion
 with the line manager. Here again, staff will be guided to pursue external or R-LINCS funding
 opportunities for research collaboration with industry and other external partners and will benefit
 from Graduate School training on impactful research. As with the thematic priorities of R-LINCS
 2014-2019, we actively collaborate in the cross-disciplinary Challenge Space priorities ‘Security,
 Equality & Social Justice’ and ‘Creative Industries & Cultural Vitality’ that are at the heart of R-
 LINCS 2020-2025 and contribute knowledge, skills and expertise to the cross-cutting research
 collaborations grouped across the University as ‘Pooled Excellence’, particularly in areas of ‘Co-
 creation & external engagement’, ‘Digital transformation & emerging technologies’, ‘Effective
 learning & pedagogy’, Human interaction & user experience’ and the ‘Social identity & human
 behaviour’ pool.

 2. People

 Abertay’s overall strategy of building a vibrant, resilient, and sustainable research community
 has been a central feature of our Unit. The increase in research capacity has arisen from a
 strategic and sustained approach to staff recruitment and staff development. The numbers of
 both Category A submitted staff and postgraduate students have increased since the last REF.
 2.1 Staff
 At the census date, the Division of Sociology had 14 academic staff including 2 Professors, 5
 Senior Lecturers and 7 Lecturers. Of these, 10 were Category A eligible staff and 4 were in
 teaching-focused positions. All Category A eligible staff are on permanent contracts and engage
 in teaching, administrative duties, and academic citizenship roles. There have been some
 academic staff changes since REF2014. Two Lecturers and a Senior Teaching Fellow left in the
 period. Three replacement Lecturers and a Professor of Criminology have been appointed.
 Three research-only staff have been employed on fixed term research contracts, of these two
 subsequently left the university at the end of the funding period and one was re-employed by the
 university on a new fixed term research contract.

 Investment in new academic staff augmented existing and emerging research strengths,
 especially in the strategically important area of the sociology of crime and deviance (Graham,
 Martin, Rogers). All lecturing appointments during this REF period have been of research active
 staff with the aim of: i) complementing the Unit’s research agenda; ii) supporting the delivery of
 relevant research-informed teaching; and III) enhancing our research capacity. For example, the
 appointment of a Professor of Criminology in 2019 was specifically designed to strengthen our
 research capacity in this area and, in conjunction with the Professor of Sociology, to support the
 research development of all staff. Abertay’s commitment to investing in staff is further
 demonstrated by awards from Healthy Working Lives (Gold Award) and the Living Wage
 Foundation. Abertay held a promotion round in 2020 despite the COVID pandemic, resulting in
 the promotion of 4 members of staff from the Unit, two to Professor, one to Senior Lecturer and


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 one from Teaching Fellow to Lecturer. By recognising and rewarding research contributions
 Abertay is continuing to accelerate its plan to invest in and retain research active staff.

 Two early career staff were appointed during the REF period. Early career staff are allocated a
 lower teaching and administrative workload to provide space not only to prepare their teaching
 materials and undertake certified training for teaching but also to ensure that they have
 dedicated research time to develop their research aspirations.

 New staff benefit from a comprehensive Induction Programme covering PGR degrees and
 regulations, Abertay’s RKE Strategy, ARCoC, CSRI, CORD and CSCDR. Depending on
 experience and as part of their probation, where required new staff without a teaching
 qualification undertake our PgCert Academic Practice (PgCAP) which includes a taught module
 on research covering regulations and policies underpinning research practice, building RKE
 networks, research planning and funding.

 Consistent with the CSCDR, all staff have personal Development Discussions with their Line
 Managers twice a year. Development Discussions appraise both short-term research objectives
 and longer-term plans, training and development needs, and well-being or workload concerns.
 Development Discussions inform the workload allocation process and determines the
 percentage of an individual staff member’s time dedicated to research and/or scholarship
 activity. This ensures a managed, fair, and transparent allocation of workload in a manner that
 facilitates and maximises research activity. In redesigning the curriculum, wherever feasible
 Category A staff teaching was organised into heavy and light teaching semesters to make
 concentrated blocks of time available for research and scholarship activity.

 Training and development needs are met through the Graduate School and in consultation
 with line managers. The Graduate School has three Researcher Development Staff who,
 together with senior Abertay staff, provide >100 development opportunities annually for our
 PGRS and research community. Training includes advanced statistics and research methods,
 GDPR, impact, enterprise, PGRS supervision, public engagement, media training, paper and
 grant writing. Staff training and development needs that cannot be met internally are provided by
 external providers, (e.g., Fast Track Impact). Staff regularly discuss their research proposals,
 outputs, and plans for impact with more experienced senior colleagues and submit their work
 and funding applications for internal peer review. Staff also discuss their work in progress at
 School research seminars, participate in scholarly conferences, and contribute to external
 research networks (see section 4).

 The university’s Sabbatical Policy provides staff with the opportunity to apply for periods of
 remission from teaching and administration to pursue specific research objectives. During the
 current REF cycle, two Sociology staff were awarded six-month research sabbaticals to
 reinvigorate their research careers after undertaking significant administrative roles for the
 university.

 In the face of the risk to research sustainability posed by COVID restrictions staff have been
 supported by the University to maintain their research activity by offering unlimited carers leave
 for staff with caring responsibilities and changes to working patterns to enable staff to work as
 flexibly as possible. A range of mitigation measures to support research were also introduced,
 such as the employment of Teaching Assistants and Research Assistants to support academics,
 and to support desk-based research where appropriate. For example, UoA21 staff were able to
 access Scottish Funding Council mitigation funds to employ a part-time Research Assistant to
 support a study of organisational learning within the British Transport Police during the Covid-19
 crisis.

 The primary use of the Division of Sociology cash budget over the REF period has been to
 support research, development and KE activities. The largest expenditure is associated with
 support for conference attendance to ensure that staff communicate their work to and network
 with national and international scholars. This is followed by staff development and training, for

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 example, three staff attended quantitative methods training courses provided by the Social
 Research Association in 2015 and 2017. Contributions are also made to the costs of attending
 seminars, public talks, and research training events, which have been prioritised to support staff
 research development. While conference and training form the bulk of the expenditure, other
 financial support has also been allocated to aid research and publication activities such as
 covering the costs of interview transcriptions, open access journal publication, hospitality for
 invited speakers and manuscript proof reading. During the REF period, the Graduate School and
 the Division of Sociology funded travel to relevant research events to support the subsequent
 submission of competitive grants, such as participation to H2020 ICT Proposers’ Day events.
 The Unit also secured external support of £2565 from SICSA (Scottish Informatics and
 Computer Science Alliance) to attend three such events.

 Abertay provides internal mentoring through the PgCAP and we participate as partners in a
 cross-institutional mentoring scheme, Teaching, Research & Academic Mentoring (TRAM)
 with the Universities of Dundee and St Andrews, Glasgow School of Art, James Hutton Institute
 and Trinity College, Dublin. Academic staff are matched annually with mentors/mentees at
 external institutions to share knowledge and expertise, increase cross-institutional networking
 and mentoring, and support mentees with career development. UoA21 benefitted from and
 contributed to TRAM as cross-institutional mentors for three external staff and one internal staff
 as a mentee.

 2.2 Research students
 We set a goal in our REF2014 submission to expand the number of registered postgraduate
 research students (PGRS) from 4 to 12 by 2018. During the REF2021 period the Unit
 consistently registered more than that number, averaging around 15 PGRS registrations for
 Masters by Research (MbR), MPhil and PhD each year (see Table 1; n.b., fractional numbers
 reflect shared supervision across UoAs). Over the review period 11.5 PGRS (6 PhDs, 1 MPhil
 and 4.5 MbR) were supervised to completion by UoA21 staff (see Table 2). From this baseline
 of completed postgraduate degrees, the BLS operational plan aims to increase the number of
 PGRS that we supervise to completion by 10% by 2025.

 Table 1: PGRS registrations 2014-2020
  UOA 21    2013-14     2014-15   2015-16          2016-17     2017-18     2018-19     2019-20
  MbR           1           4         4                6          3.5          0          4
  MPhil         0           0         3                2           1          2.5         2
  PhD         10.5         10       10.5              13          10          11         12.5
  Total       11.5         14       17.5              21         14.5        13.5        18.5

 Table 2: PGRS completions 2014-2020
  UOA 21     Total 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19                       2019-20
  MbR         4.5     0         0     0      3.0      1.5     0                             0
  MPhil        1      0         0     0       0        0      0                             1
  PhD          6      0       1.00    0       0      1.50     0                            3.5
  Total      11.5

 All PGRS are based in Abertay’s Graduate School, allowing access to training and a large peer
 group from other disciplines. As well as providing physical resources (allocated desk in an open-
 plan office, social area, IT equipment), the Graduate School creates a structured system to
 support PGRS progress:
     - Progress panels: students complete an annual progress report and presentation to a
         Review Panel to assure student progress, supervision quality and opportunity to address
         any issues.
     - Personal development planning: Students track meetings, achievements, goals, and
         training needs into a Vitae Researcher Development Framework system, which must be
         submitted for approval one month before the PhD thesis. This ensures that students are

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        systematically focused on progress, and that they are able to articulate the research,
        experience and wider achievements attained throughout their PG training.
    -   Annual Graduate School conference: All PGRS are required to present their research
        to peers, supervisors, and academic staff from across Abertay. This helps the students to
        develop presentation skills and confidence in a formal professional context.
    -   Training: Weekly skills-based seminars are held during term-time to meet individual
        training needs, including research methods, statistics (SPSS and R), qualitative analysis,
        public engagement and outreach training, academic writing, funding applications and
        business development.
    -   Access to Researcher Development Staff: providing tailored statistical support, and
        academic advice and peer-review (e.g., on funding applications).
    -   Funding opportunities: students can apply to dedicated funds for conference
        attendance and researcher training support (e.g., The Chancellor’s Fund).

 Given our small size, the University makes effective use of regional and national development
 and networking opportunities. We encourage our PGRS to work and exchange ideas with
 people, organisations, and colleagues in the wider research environment. Examples include,
 courses provided by other Universities, VITAE and Advance HE, and through our membership of
 the inter-University Scottish Research Pools (e.g., SIPR). Additionally, the Scottish Graduate
 School of Social Science (SGSSS) provides all our PGRS with access to further support (e.g.,
 advanced and specialist statistical training), methods workshops and personal development
 opportunities (e.g., internships). SGSSS is a Doctoral Training Partnership commissioned by
 ESRC and the Scottish Funding Council that provides all social sciences PGRS in the member
 universities, including Abertay, with high quality training experiences and resources.

 By bringing together discipline-specific research under the remit of themed, competitive internal
 funding schemes, the Graduate School has supported the growth of the postgraduate student
 base, the cross-fertilization of ideas and expertise, enhanced the supervisory contribution and
 research output of staff, with an increased accent on high-quality publication of PGRS research.
 Additional schemes like the Abertay Futures Scholarship, funded at a School-level, enabled
 tuition fees to be waived for postgraduate students engaged in UoA21 research priority areas
 such as Covid-19 and the sociology of knowledge, while others have been supported through
 the University’s R-LINCS studentships and co-funded studentships. Such financial assistance
 has particular value for our own first-class undergraduates aiming to undertake postgraduate
 studies at Abertay and expand their career aspirations.

 Placement opportunities in industry, charities and government are also made available. For
 example, one of our Sociology PGRS undertook a SGSSS internship with the Scottish
 Government, supported financially by the University’s Chancellor’s Fund. PGR students with
 aspirations to become academics are able to study the module CAP501: Developing Academic
 Practice, accredited by Advance HE, which qualifies them to deliver small group teaching and
 makes them eligible for Associate Fellowship of Advance HE (AFHEA).

 Less experienced and new postgraduate supervision staff are required to complete an online
 Epigeum course on Supervising Doctoral Studies and undertake in-house training before being
 mentored through their first PGRS supervision experience. Those new to Research Degrees
 examination must engage with our Novice Internal Examiners Process which involves in-house
 training and observation of viva voce.

 The Unit contributes to the research training of PGRS through in-house and interdisciplinary
 collaborations. Examples of our engagement with formal PGRS training include two courses for
 the Graduate School, one on Qualitative Data Collection and another on Qualitative Data
 Analysis, and a session on Identifying Your Research Niche and Managing your Potential. Staff
 also support PGRS registered at other universities. For example, Law contributed a sociological
 perspective for the ‘Theories of Knowledge’ national postgraduate course provided by the
 Scottish Graduate School for Arts & Humanities.


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 Our University Strategic Plans affirm Abertay’s core purpose to develop and sustain an
 inclusive and supportive culture, one that recognises and values colleagues and students with
 different backgrounds, experiences, and attitudes and where they feel able to achieve their full
 potential by contributing fresh ideas and perspectives that have a positive impact on the world.

 Our Equality & Diversity Policy ensures that all individuals are treated with dignity and respect
 and that an environment exists where discrimination is not tolerated. Abertay’s ethos embeds
 inclusion, diversity, and equality in all our policies, operations, and strategic thinking. Consistent
 with CSCDR commitments, all staff in the Unit have undergone mandatory Diversity in the
 Workplace and Unconscious Bias training, and Recruitment and Selection training is required for
 all involved in recruitment and promotion decisions. We have published an EDI Action Plan that
 maintains the process of Equality Impact Assessment for policy, statements and procedures and
 makes accessible relevant software systems and supporting information.

 Our Inclusion, Diversity and Equality at Abertay (IDEA) Management Group monitors progress
 and implementation of EDI through annual reporting. Our governing body, Court, through its
 People, Health & Equality Committee, has oversight of EDI and receives regular reports
 including our Mainstreaming Reports. The University consults the Trade Unions on EDI through
 regular Joint Liaison Committees and works with Abertay Students Association on student EDI
 matters. UoA21 staff serve as representatives on the University and College Union and Staff
 Engagement Advisory Team committees which have, for example, worked with management to
 support staff with caring or health responsibilities during COVID restrictions.

 Since REF2014, the University has been awarded the Athena SWAN Bronze award (2015 and
 2018). Led by the Dean of Research and Graduate School, the self-assessment team has
 helped drive the development of fair and equitable policies and practices to support researchers,
 staff, and students across the University. Abertay was one of the first universities to sign up to
 the pilot scheme for the Race Equality Charter in 2014. In 2016 we became – and remain at
 time of writing – the first and only higher education institution in Scotland to hold the Race
 Equality Charter Mark bronze. UoA21 is involved in the preparation of School-based Athena
 Swan Bronze submission for 2022/23.

 Our Academic Recruitment and Promotion Policies are applied to ensure a fair, equitable,
 transparent and consistent process for appointing and reviewing the grade of academic staff,
 which is integrated with the University’s Role Profiles and underpinned by the principle of ‘equal
 pay for work of equal value’. As a signatory of DORA, when considering appointments and
 promotions, we evaluate research on its own merit rather than on the journal Impact Factor.

 The University’s suite of Work-Life Balance Policies (Flexible Working; Maternity Leave;
 Parental Leave; Shared Paternal Leave; Adoption Leave) are designed to support staff and aim
 to establish a ‘best practice’ culture. The University is responsible for supporting any periods of
 maternity leave whether or not there is additional funding provided by the research funders.

 UoA21 staff are active Equality & Diversity researchers in areas such as gender-based
 violence, social inequalities, racism, sectarianism, and social justice. We also act as citizen
 sociologists beyond the University, for example, Martin is a member of the Cross-Justice
 working group on Race and Workforce for the Scottish Government Justice Board.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research funding strategy
 The funding strategy of the Unit has been one of investing time and resources to establish
 secure and steady streams of research income in order to increase the research capacity and
 the national and international profile of the Unit. As indicated above, compared to the previous
 REF2014 submission, the Unit has achieved an eight-fold increase in research income over the
 REF2021 period, while income per head increased five-fold. Despite its relatively small size, the
 Unit has been successful in leading and securing funding from a variety of sources, related to

                                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 both research excellence and innovation (Figure 2). With 72% of funding coming from EU
 sources, 12% respectively from UK Based Charities and UK sources and 3% from BEIS
 Research Councils et al.

 Figure 2: Unit Research Income, 2014-2020




 During the current REF period our first strategic action was to explore and secure grants from
 the European Commission (in particular focussing on the Horizon 2020 programme). Taking this
 route enabled the Unit to play to its strengths (interdisciplinary capacity and ability to produce
 applied social research, especially in relation to Information and Communication Technologies)
 while being part of wider international consortia, thus increasing the level of international
 collaboration and the international profile of the Unit. Additionally, due to the small scale of the
 University, the Unit has invested time and effort working on cross- and inter-disciplinary bids with
 colleagues working in other Units (in particular UoA12 and UoA32) within Abertay.

 The Unit secured funding from the European Commission (often in conjunction with colleagues
 from other Units within the University) for the following projects: Wikirate (£38,677, Framework
 Programme 7, on the subject of Digital Social Innovation); STEP (£177,650, H2020 on the
 subject of e-participation for young people); PIE News (£138,184.00, H2020 on the subject of
 Digital Social Innovation); Foresight (£39,773.00, in collaboration with Abertay’s Division of
 Cybersecurity, H2020, on the subject of cybersecurity training); and TRIPLE (£352,725 circa,
 H2020, on the subject of research infrastructures for social sciences and humanities). All these
 projects answer to societal challenges in relation to the development of novel Information
 Technologies, and include research in areas such as trust, end-user in security, poverty and
 emancipation. In three of these European projects, the Unit has acted as Work Package leader,
 demonstrating leadership capacity within the projects and an ability to coordinate the work of our
 international partners.

 Additional sources of funding secured by the Unit include ICT-related funding from a Dundee-
 based charitable trust for the project Mapping Social Innovation (£215,000, led by Sociology in
 conjunction with the colleagues from Games and Art at Abertay). The Unit also secured

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Council Income (£24,893 in an EPSRC-funded project led by Stirling University), for
 the co-design of a prototype platform for managing environmental/recycling data. This was
 followed by UKRI GCRF funding, to collaborate on a project developing innovative food
 supplement for infants in Zimbabwe (collaboration led by Abertay colleagues in Food Science for
 the total amount of £410,627) to study cultural and social aspects that underpin this
 development and uptake. Income deriving from crime and society studies include SIPR
 (£49,981, in conjunction with the Division of Cybersecurity at Abertay, for studying the police
 cybercrime response from an international perspective), the police service in Aberdeen (£4000)
 for the scientific evaluation of a police operation, and the Scottish Violence Reduction Unit
 (£15,000). Some of the projects mentioned above (such as TRIPLE) are still ongoing and will
 cross over in the next REF period with some income shared with other Units across the
 University.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 Abertay University has made significant investments in the Graduate School in our approach to
 research governance and leadership and in REIS (9.6FTE, total investment £2.8M during the
 period). Graduate School resources (e.g., Researcher Development staff, training seminars,
 peer-review college) are available to all staff and are called upon regularly to improve the quality
 of grant submissions. REIS offer advice and support on research related matters, including IP,
 contract management, costing, reviewing and approving applications for external funding,
 processing and managing grants awarded.

 The internal peer review process has improved grant success rates and scale across Abertay
 (e.g., in 2020 30% success rate (average award £335K) with peer review vs 10% success rate
 (average award £53K) without). Additionally, R-LINCS Theme Leaders coordinate and support
 the development of collaborative ventures including stakeholder partnerships and cross-
 disciplinary research and RKE projects.

 University-wide points of contact provide excellent pooled expertise to support staff research.
 Through the R-LINCS scheme, staff can access starter funding for projects that, if successful,
 would merit subsequent submission to competitive funding, pump-priming for new and existing
 researchers, and funding open access costs.

 The university offers a lean IT infrastructure for research and data management and
 collaboration, including PURE, a digital repository for publications and a dedicated group within
 the internal Social Network Yammer ARC. Dedicated library staff provide further support for
 academic research by managing open access for publications and data.

 3.3 Future plans
 The Unit will continue to target European funding as it becomes available from the next Horizon
 programme, leveraging the network of international collaborations that has been built over the
 past seven years.

 The Unit’s plan for increasing and diversifying research income builds on our particular strengths
 to secure grants, first, in the emerging area of crime and society by fostering and strengthening
 existing relationships with police forces across the UK and, second, in the social aspects of
 Information and Communication Technologies by continuing to target European funding by
 building new partnerships and collaborations on the continent and to take a concerted approach
 to making submissions for UKRI funding. Applied social theory is engaged with
 interdisciplinary collaborative research networks to submit funding proposals to charities and
 UKRI inter alia for substantive studies of cultural democracy and authoritarianism, and visual
 ethnographies of refugee acculturation processes.

 Moreover, the Unit aims to diversify the scope of its grant-making activities in order to respond
 effectively to potential future uncertainties whilst attempting to increase the current level of
 income. We will target more proactively UKRI income and explore more broadly the
 opportunities offered by UK Charities by building on new internal and external collaborations and

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by being responsive to calls made by funders such as the National Institute for Health Research
 and the comprehensive alerts for funding calls compiled by Abertay’s quarterly Research
 Funding Newsletter. The continuous collaboration with Abertay colleagues working in other Units
 (in particular, UoA12, UoA32 and UoA6) will remain important for the Unit as we bid for
 interdisciplinary forms of priority funding, focusing on excellent research with impact.

 To facilitate and increase the capacity of the Unit to diversify future sources of grant income, we
 have identified an infrastructural need for the establishment of a dedicated research lab to
 deepen our methodological expertise in the sociology of digital transformation. The Unit is
 actively working to establish the lab. The research lab will provide expert research capabilities
 for the Unit to produce distinctive high-quality research, develop collaboration with local private
 and public actors and thus increase capacity for bidding to national funding streams, in particular
 UKRI funding. The lab will also facilitate the delivery of meaningful impact and better support the
 recruitment of PGRS.

 Our plans are underpinned by Abertay’s strategic commitment over the next five years to invest
 in and support around 15 fully funded R-LINCS PhD studentships, funded PhD studentships for
 newly appointed academic staff (subject to the approval of a research plan that is aligned with the R-
 LINCS2 objectives), Abertay Futures Scholarships, Pump Priming awards, and Open Access
 Publication awards.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Based on proven areas of expertise members of the Unit contribute consistently to the
 knowledge base, the research community, and the wider society. To sustain our productive
 engagement with the research base, the Sociology Unit at Abertay encourages both individual
 and collective research projects depending on the exigencies of the research problem.
 Individuals contribute to the discipline with single-authored outputs in areas such as social
 theory, disciplinary history and political sociology, while more directly applied forms of social
 research require collaboration with colleagues within and beyond Abertay.

 4.1 Contribution to the research base
 Our contributions are reflected in sustained scholarly outputs over the period. Since 2014 the
 Unit has produced 82 scholarly outputs, comprising 48 journal articles, two single-authored
 books, two co-edited books and thirty book chapters, as well as a number of other outputs such
 as reports and reviews. Law co-edited a special issue of Human Figurations (2017) on
 ‘Comparative-Historical Sociology as Antidote to the ‘Crackpot Realism’ of the Twenty-First
 Century’, and De Paoli co-edited a special issue of Co-Design (2019). Law co-edited the
 international volume Sociological Amnesia (2015) intended as a corrective to the selective
 history of the discipline and is currently co-editing the authoritative international handbook
 Anthem Companion to Norbert Elias (Anthem Press, 2023). Drawing on her research experience
 Martin co-edited Introduction to Policing Research (2015) specifically for inducting a new
 generation of students into social research on policing.

 The Unit also produced notable single-authored books that have been well received and widely
 reviewed by the discipline. Memos’ widely reviewed Castoriadis and Critical Theory (2014)
 reassesses Castoriadis' contribution to Critical Theory in light of the crisis of left-wing politics and
 modern capitalism. Memos further develops his analysis of critical theory in a forthcoming book
 (Routledge, 2021) and has been commissioned by Bloomsbury Academic publishers to produce
 Continuing Critical Theory, the first full-length study to reflect upon the contribution of the Open
 Marxist tradition to critical social theory. Law’s Social Theory for Today (2014) elucidates the
 historical relationship between crisis and social theory as a means to recognise the
 consequences of recurring intellectual and ideological disputes for disciplinary knowledge. Law’s
 textbook Key Concepts in Classical Social Theory (Sage, 2011) was translated into Farsi by
 leading Iranian sociologist Farhang Ershad (Agah Publishers, Tehran, 2017).



                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our staff are active members of a range of national and international scholarly bodies and
 professional networks like the British Sociological Association, the International Social Theory
 Consortium, the International Critical Theory Society, the Cornelius Castoriadis Agora
 International Network, the British Association of Social and Political Philosophy, the European
 Sociological Association, International Sociological Association, International Visual Sociology
 Association, the Scottish Alliance for Geoscience, Environment and Society (SAGES), and as a
 member of British Criminology Society’s Women’s Criminal Justice Network Steering Group.

 Staff contribute to and help organise scholarly conferences, including the Czech Technical
 University conference scientific committee (Academic Conferences Association), and co-
 convene the Social Divisions and Identities stream of the British Sociological Association (BSA)
 annual conference. We also co-convene the BSA Scotland Study Group and convened
 ‘Crossing the divide: searching for innovations in learning between criminal justice and public
 health’ for the 2018 Law Enforcement and Public Health Conference, Toronto, Canada.

 We are regularly invited to present keynote addresses at policy and academic events. For
 example, Martin gave the keynote address to the 2019 London Police College International
 Conference of Police Education; Law has given keynotes at the annual Association of Media
 Education in Scotland conference and at a British Educational Research Association event on
 hybrid social theory and education research; De Paoli presented to the ICT 2015 Innovate,
 Connect, Transform event in Lisbon organised by the European Commission on the subject of
 ‘Cyber Skills’; and Waiton gave keynote addresses to the Family Education Trust on early
 intervention and the ‘expert class’ in 2019 and on the Future of the Welfare State for the Ax:son
 Johnson Foundation in 2015.

 As academic citizens we frequently undertake peer review for journals including Social Studies
 of Science, Sociological Review, CoDesign, The Sociological Quarterly, Journal of Youth
 Studies, Environmental Politics, Mobilization, Sociological Research Online, Criminology and
 Criminal Justice, Philosophy Today, Constellations, Theoria, Thesis Eleven: Critical Theory and
 Historical Sociology, Criminology and Criminal Justice, International Journal of Police Science
 and Management, and The Police Journal. We participate as members of journal editorial
 boards such as Civic Sociology, Journal of Applied Social Theory, and International Journal of
 Interdisciplinary Social and Community Studies. As active scholars in our respective fields we
 are regularly invited to review monograph proposals for publishers such as Anthem Press,
 Bloomsbury Academic, Bristol University Press, SAGE, Routledge, Palgrave, and Taylor and
 Francis, and as Associate Editor for the Oxford University Press Criminal Justice Project.
 Colleagues act as peer-reviewers and panel members for grant applications for both national
 (such as the UKRI fellowships, ESRC, AHRC, SGSAH) and international bodies (e.g. NOW
 Netherlands, Flanders, HEI Ireland).

 4.2 Academic and non-academic collaboration
 Academic collaboration beyond Abertay includes Martin’s Home Office-funded study with
 educationalists and organisational analysts of changing police forces’ approaches to training,
 learning and development as well as the Skills for Justice collaboration between the Open
 University, Canterbury Christ Church University, and Edinburgh Napier University. Graham
 collaborated with Sociologists and Criminologists at Stirling and Glasgow to examine the impact
 of organised crime on Scottish communities.

 Through participation in Europe-wide research consortia and European research events the
 Unit has developed solid and sustainable working relationships with researchers across the
 continent, leading to collaborative funding bids (section 3), research outputs and research
 leadership development. Within the European research context these include roles such as
 executive member of the European Society of Criminology Policing Working Group, universities
 and research centres in countries such as Italy (University of Trento, Fondazione Bruno
 Kessler), France (Centre national de la recherche scientifique, CNRS Huma-Num), Greece
 (Centre for Research & Technology – Hellas, KEMEA, the National Greek Centre for Security
 Studies), the Netherlands (the Dyne Foundation), Portugal (Madeira Institute of Technology),

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Poland (Polish Platform for Homeland Security), Germany (the Max Weber Society). Across
 such projects the Unit also worked with a range of European SMEs and end-users organisations
 for example in Greece (such as Draxis Environmental), Croatia (such as Centre for Peace
 Studies), Italy (such as Basic Income Network), and the Czech Republic (such as Youth and
 Environment Europe).

 The strong relationships that we have built with a diverse range of research users and publics
 lend our research wider impact beyond that captured by the Impact Case Studies alone. Our
 external engagement sustains and nurtures impact across a diverse range of agencies. In the
 field of criminal justice, for example, organisations include the National Police Learning and
 Development Working Group in collaboration with the National Police Chief Council and College
 of Policing, the Scottish Government, Scottish Police Authority, Scottish Violence Reduction
 Unit, Medics Against Violence, Navigators Scotland, Northamptonshire Constabulary, Essex
 Constabulary, International Association of Chiefs of Police and Fundação Oswaldo Cruz
 (Fiocruz), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

 This activity has led to a number of further impacts in the areas of rehabilitation, organised
 crime, the police as a learning organisation, and the policing of cybercrime. A report on
 cybercrime was presented to a variety of stakeholders including the Scottish Police,
 representatives from the Scottish Government and other police forces across Europe (including
 the Netherlands and Poland). Among other relevant activities, a member of the Unit designed a
 Privacy & Cybersecurity quiz for ENISA (European Network and Information Security Agency),
 directed at the general public with a view of offering a playful way to engage with issues around
 cybersecurity, which has featured on the European Cybersecurity Month Website since 2015.
 Members of the Unit also collaborated in the creation of a Serious Game for the Women’s Rape
 and Sexual Abuse Centre (WRASAC) on the subject of sexual consent for teenagers. The Unit
 has made a point of developing deep working relationships with the local organisations in
 Dundee, most notably with WRASAC, the Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB) and Dundee City
 Council for projects on social innovation and education and issues around online safety for
 children.

 Supported by External and Corporate Relations UoA21 staff are regularly called upon to provide
 expert comment to a range of media sources, from national newspapers such as The Times,
 The Herald, The Scotsman, The Independent, to the local press The Courier, Evening
 Telegraph, Press and Journal, broadcast media like BBC News, Sky News, BBC Radio
 Scotland, and social media.

 We will further develop productive and outcome-focused working relationships with external
 partners. Professor Martin will lead our partnership strategy by mentoring others to develop
 external engagement plans. Staff will benefit from her extensive experience of impactful
 research through well-defined stakeholder partnerships that include the Home Office, Scottish
 Prison Service, Police Scotland, Mayor’s Office for Policing and Crime and National Police Chief
 Council, Global Law Enforcement and Public Health Association, and, since 2016, as Associate
 Director of the Education and Leadership Network for SIPR. At national level the Unit benefits
 from a productive working relationship with the Open University’s Centre for Policing and
 Research through Martin’s leadership role as Project Academic Director for the Transformation
 of Police Learning and Development research collaboration between 2017 and 2019. Other
 notable collaborations include working with Stirling University on a successful EPSRC grant to
 co-design a prototype platform for managing environmental/recycling data and with Cambridge
 University’s Psychometrics Department on a European Project. Our responsiveness to national
 priorities is well illustrated by Graham’s evaluation of mobile working practices for Police
 Scotland and the Scottish Police Authority.




                                                                                           Page 14
