Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Chichester

 Unit of Assessment: 23 (Education)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 NB. Throughout this document, emboldened surnames indicate staff submitted to the Unit, and
 italicized names indicate Unit non-submitted staff. Underlined names indicate other staff
 members. Other surnames refer to former staff, external staff and school partners.


 Strategic aims for research and impact during the assessment period

 Background and Current Context

 The UoC is proud of its heritage in Education, and supporting this (both in terms of teacher
 training and education research) is an important part of its overarching strategic plan.

 Despite a previously strong tradition of supporting individual researchers, no Education staff
 members were entered into REF2014 and as a result, the Department set out on a strategy to
 build a research environment for Education. The former Head of Primary Education (Lander)
 was appointed as Department Research Co-ordinator and put in place a strategy to develop
 research in Education. After she left the UoC to take up a professorial post, the work that she
 started had a continued impact on current researchers in the Unit (for example, on the
 publications of Shelton). Lander organised a series of department-wide ‘Research
 Conversations’ that provided a forum for developing researchers (Shelton, Stone and
 Thompson) to present their work.

 Over the course of the 2014-20 assessment period the UoC has demonstrated, as it continues
 to demonstrate, a long-term commitment to research. Prior to this REF period, both the UoC and
 the Department of Education signalled the intention to strengthen their research profiles,
 especially through publication activities. In the University’s 2012-15 Research Strategy
 (Objective 1: Opportunity and Productivity) it stated that ‘every two years every academic
 member of staff should produce, or contribute to, a publication, at a level appropriate to
 individual and departmental priorities’. The Department of Education, in its Strategic plan (also
 2012-15) stated:

  Over the next five years the Department of Education will develop a research profile and
  encourage appropriate staff to publish papers in addition to writing books and chapters.

 The UoC’s 2015/16-20 Research Strategy reinforced the institution’s intention to intensify
 research activity, and this set the scene for the subsequent appointments of Thompson as Bids
 Co-ordinator, Research Champion and Research Degrees Co-ordinator.

 The Unit’s REF2021 submission is founded upon the longstanding dedication and commitment
 of its staff, who have made it into a vibrant and productive environment in which research can
 thrive.

 In June 2020 the Unit put in an application to the UoC’s Research & Innovation Committee
 (R&IC), and subsequently to Academic Board, for the authority to award its own research
 degree. The Unit is delighted to report that this proposal was accepted by the University, and as
 a consequence, the Dept of Education now offers the opportunity for a specific research degree
 (PhD route) to enrich the portfolio of the University and to offer opportunities for both for its
 master’s and external students. The Unit also continues to support research students in
 collaboration with colleagues in other departments at the University.



                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Unit of assessment content and structure

 The Institute of Education, Health and Social Studies (IEHSS) was formed in 2018, combining
 the departments of Childhood, Social Work and Social Care, Psychology and Counselling, and
 the former Institute of Education. The Unit is based at the UoC’s Bognor Regis campus.

 Research within the Unit is led by Thompson, who sits on the IEHSS Research Committee,
 which is chaired by Pereira, the Co-Director of the IEHSS and Cross-Institutional Lead for
 Research. Pereira sits on the University’s R&IC, which is chaired by the Deputy Vice Chancellor.
 All researchers feed into decision making through regular Institute meetings, where research
 matters more generally are communicated and discussed.

 Being an integral part of a wider Institute provides a wealth of opportunities for research and
 researcher development. The work of the Unit is strengthened by the inclusion of researchers in
 education-related areas across the University. For example, Thompson regularly contributes to
 Social Studies research seminars, and Kurowski (from Social Studies) leads sessions on
 grounded theory for Education.

 Our Unit’s research is focused on education systems related to (a) sectors, and (b) substantive
 areas such as curricula, teaching and learning, initial teacher training and equity, as follows:
 Bentham (teaching, learning and motivation); Birch (equity and assessment in sport); Cooper
 (education systems in relation to Early Years); Duah (Mathematics curriculum); Everley (Early
 Years and PE); Hogh (reasoning skills in secondary Science students); Reavey and Wilkinson
 (Science curriculum); Shelton (IT curriculum and teacher training); Stone (teacher training);
 Thompson (teacher training, leadership and management, and equity issues).

 Our Unit comprises 11 ‘Category A’ researchers (10.4 FTE). During the REF2021 assessment
 period, 8 out of these 11 researchers (73%) have published in peer-reviewed journals at both an
 international and national level. All 3 of the remaining Category A researchers (27%) have
 monographs or dual-authored books based on original research. Outputs selected for REF2021
 include Bentham (1 book based on
 original research), Birch (4 articles), Cooper (1 article), Duah (2 articles), Everley (5 articles),
 Hogh (1 article), Reavey (3 articles), Shelton (4 articles), Stone (1 report and 1 original
 research-based chapter), Thompson (2 articles and 1 monograph), and Wilkinson (1 dual
 authored book).


 Research and Impact Strategy

 The 2014 Department strategy set out 5 strategic aims:

    1. Achieve impactful research
    2. Gain national and international recognition for research in Education
    3. Work collaboratively with colleagues and research beneficiaries
    4. Enable academic staff to become researchers
    5. Develop academic staff knowledge and understanding of research

 1. Achieve impactful research.

 The Unit’s success in meeting this aim can be seen in our REF2 and REF3 submissions, as well
 as a range of other activities.

 Staff have been encouraged to seek opportunities to obtain funding for research, and training to
 support this has been provided by Pacella, former Head of Research, Pereira and Thompson.
 As a result, 8 staff have been engaged in income generation activity. For example, in 2017,

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Bentham, Thompson and Smith gained GBP5,895 external funding from the Church of
 England Foundation for Educational Learning. In 2018, findings were disseminated at the
 Church of England Foundation for Educational Leadership conference, Called, Connected and
 Committed. Everley received GBP10,000 from the NSPCC Child Protection in Sport Unit, which
 led to a paper in a prestigious journal. In 2020 Nanson received GBP10,000 from the DfE for
 co-authoring a pilot study in teaching assistants’ subject knowledge in Mathematics.

 2. Achieve recognition for our research in Education.

 As has been noted above, the Unit is delighted to be able to make its first submission to REF –
 meeting a key objective.

 The increasing expertise of our Unit’s researchers has been recognised through a variety of
 involvements in University-wide research responsibilities: Bentham and Shelton completed
 terms of office on the University Research Committee (now R&IC); Stone and Cooper have
 been members of the University Ethics Committee (2017-present); Thompson is a member of
 the REF Planning Team (REFPT), the R&IC, and the Research Degrees Group. In this way, an
 understanding of University research structures informs the work of the Unit, and the Unit
 contributes towards university-wide research activity.

 3. Work collaboratively with colleagues and research beneficiaries.

 The Unit has maximised the impact of its research by working closely with colleagues in
 widespread educational settings. For example, Shelton, Laxton and Cooper are working on the
 Mapping Educational Specialist KnowHow (MESH) research project for the Rohingya people,
 which is one of the Unit’s Impact Case Studies.

 The second Impact Case Study draws on research into effective bilingual education, led by
 Melara Gutierrez from the Unit and Gonzalez Lopez from the Spanish Department of Education
 in Madrid. It has involved 250 teachers, informing and enhancing bilingual education teachers’
 professional practice internationally. As a result, the Spanish Department of Education (Madrid)
 changed its policy on bilingual teaching.

 The University has also worked to ensure that its research was disseminated to key
 beneficiaries, for example, a Research Showcase event (May 2014) allowed a range of research
 projects to be presented for an audience of local school leaders and teachers. Similarly, regular
 TeachMeet events have provided teachers in the local region to hear about the research
 conducted by staff and students associated with the Unit. Members of the Unit have been invited
 to participate in the research committees of Teaching Schools.

 In November 2015, a Centre for Special Education and Disability Studies was launched. This
 centre has impacted on regional education through regular conferences which have provided a
 pathway for Unit researchers to share their insights with practitioners. The Centre has also been
 involved in research and evaluation projects with local organisations. For example, a current
 contract has seen the Centre supporting a school to develop lesson-study research projects.

 4. Enable academic staff to become researchers.

 As noted above, the current Unit submission has 11 Category A researchers.

 An expectation to discuss research targets is now included in all academic annual development
 reviews, and these are ensuring that a greater proportion of staff now hold doctoral level
 degrees. At the end of 2013, 6 members of staff in the Education department held doctorates,
 with 2 of these doctorates predominately focused on education and 4 in other academic areas.
 Since then, the Unit has made developing researcher expertise in Education a priority, and as of
 July 2020, 13 Unit members hold doctorates, with a further 6 being currently enrolled on doctoral
 programmes. Support for staff doctoral research is personalised to meet individual

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 circumstances but has included tuition fee contributions, internal funding for doctoral research
 projects, mentoring and workload adjustments.

 Mentors have been assigned to members of the Unit who wish to develop as researchers, and
 this has proven effective. For example, with the guidance of her mentor Pereira, Thompson was
 appointed as the Unit’s Research Champion in 2019 and Research Degrees Co-ordinator in
 2020. Similarly, Cooper and Laxton, with guidance from their mentors, Shelton and Younie,
 were encouraged and guided the Early Years MESH (Mapping Educational Specialist
 KnowHow) guide for emergency situations relevant to young Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh.
 Subsequent to this, they have published their first peer-reviewed article in a prestigious Early
 Years Journal.

 The UoC has also made available significant funding to target key strategic research
 opportunities. For example, Beadle was awarded a GBP10,000 internal grant which enabled her
 to complete a number of research projects and present these at international conferences,
 resulting in international publications (see for example Beadle’s publication in the Turkish Online
 Journal of Educational Technology). In addition, Bentham was awarded RFF (Research
 Facilitation Fund) funding over 2 years (2014-2016), which led to attendance at conferences and
 an article publication in the journal, Assessment Matters.

 5. Develop academic staff knowledge and understanding of research.

 In addition to supporting doctoral study, the Unit has created opportunities to develop the
 research expertise of all staff including those with and without doctoral qualifications. In 2015,
 Lander organised a series of regular department-wide ‘Research Conversations’ that provided a
 forum for developing researchers (such as Shelton, Stone and Thompson) to present their
 work. This developed into a series of seminars, and from 2019, Thompson, in her role of
 Research Champion, introduced Research Cafés, Methodology Mastermind, and Expert
 seminars. These included a Research Café called Publish or Perish, run by Pereira, Thompson
 and Stone, which focussed on the importance of peer-reviewed journals. Subsequently, Cooper
 and Laxton, supported by Shelton and Younie, submitted their first peer-reviewed journal
 successfully.

 Research support and leadership has also been provided by visiting professors (Keyes and
 Younie), and these collaborations have led to a number of publications by members of the Unit
 (e.g., Shelton).


 Additional Strategic Aims: The Next 5 Years

 The Unit’s overarching research strategy for the next 5 years is to support impactful research
 across and within a wide range of educational fields, taking full advantage both of our
 institution’s inherently interdisciplinary structure, and our many collaborations with other
 universities, both in the UK and overseas. We are thus both inward-facing, working particularly
 closely with the Departments of Psychology, Social Studies and The Institute of Sport at UoC,
 whilst also taking every opportunity to develop international research partnerships.

 Our future strategic aims also include:

    •   Strengthen the leadership of our Unit by appointing professor and readers.
    •   Formalise pathways for staff ranging from Early Career Researcher (ECR) to Established
        Researcher.
    •   Create research projects which include impact as an integral part of their design
    •   Further develop interdisciplinary and external collaborations (with visiting professors,
        subject networks, collaborative bidding and visiting speakers).
    •   Staff development (including mentorship, promotion and training).
    •   PhD supervision (increase the numbers of students, completions and supervisors).

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •   Support existing Education Research Centres, and create new ones.

 The Unit is committed to developing a system of research groupings to maximise research
 capacity. Over the next 2 years, the Unit will launch a new Research Centre, provisionally called
 the Centre for Research and Innovation in Education. With sub-groups focusing on the expertise
 of existing staff, for example, inclusion and diversity, Early Years and initial teacher education,
 this Centre will take advantage of existing national and international partnerships, to build a new
 network and enhance knowledge transfer.

 2. People

 Currently, 13 Unit staff hold PhD qualifications, and 11 of these colleagues are Category A
 researchers. 8 Unit staff (Bentham, Birch, Brinded, Cooper, Duah, Shelton, Stone and
 Wilkinson) obtained their qualifications in the current REF period. A further 6 Unit staff
 (Hickman, Laxton, Melara Gutierrez, Minett, Newsom and Parkes) are currently studying for
 PhDs.


 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 Staff Development

 Every member of staff in the Unit has an annual Performance Review and Development Plan
 (PRDP). The PRDP process is the primary formal administrative mechanism through which staff
 can reflect on past performance and identify future goals. It is informed by the Researcher
 Development Framework, which is formally adopted by the University. More specifically, the
 PRDP is informed by the unique research objectives for the Unit as agreed with the University,
 which fit into the its broader research aims. In the 2019/20 academic year the PRDP form was
 redesigned to address staff development in research issues, so that line managers within
 subject areas can discuss specific targets related to the development of individuals’ research.

 In addition to utilising the UoC’s PRDP framework, the Unit supports research development
 through providing access, encouragement, and funding for attending research conferences. For
 example, in 2015, the Unit supported Beadle to attend an international conference in Turkey,
 which led to a publication in the Turkish online Journal of Educational Technology. In 2017,
 Bentham was funded to give a paper at the BERA conference titled Can a Motivational Journal
 make a difference? This led to a joint publication with a partner school colleague, Iles. The Unit
 also supported Shelton to travel to Thailand to present his research into IT education.               Commented [CS1]: This was a conference.
                                                                                                       Should say “to present his research into IT education.

 As mentioned in the strategy section, internal staff development sessions have been revitalised
 by Thompson. In the Research Cafés, staff and research students discuss their work and
 receive feedback from colleagues in a collaborative setting. Methodology Mastermind sessions
 provide an opportunity for staff who have an interest and expertise in a particular methodology to
 answer questions from colleagues. Expert Seminar sessions provide a forum for external
 speakers.

 Other sessions include:

 •   Matthews: Emotional Regulation.
 •   Parkes and Hewitt: Using blogs: Understanding of Cultural Capital and implementation in
     schools.
 •   Wilkinson: Beginning to Publish: How to start. Highs and Lows.
 •   Pereira, Stone and Thompson: Publish or Perish! Tackling Peer-Reviewed Journals (as
     mentioned above).



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Cooper and Laxton: Research Project: Early Years. MESH Project and the Rohingya
     People.
 •   Hickman: The Highs and lows of undertaking PhD research.
 •   Norris: Qualitative Choices. Discussing Qualitative methodologies.
 •   Pereira: Successful bid writing.
 •   Kurowski: Methodology Mastermind: Using Grounded Theory.
 •   Hewitt and Thompson: The Importance of Networking.
 •   Newsom: Starting a PhD. Channelling thoughts.
 •   Green, Research Office: Starting PhD Supervision.

 Staff are supported to feel part of the Unit research culture, and from an early stage are given
 the opportunity to give a seminar on their research (see, for example, Newsom).

 PhD supervision

 In order to become a PhD supervisor, new staff are placed into a team to work alongside more
 experienced colleagues, 1 of whom must be a qualified supervisor. To be qualified, staff must
 have supervised to completion at least once. Currently, the Unit has 6 supervisory staff
 (Bentham, Cooper, Shelton, Smith, Stone and Thompson) who are part of supervisory teams
 in Education, Social Policy, Theology and Psychology. The Unit has 2 qualified supervisors who
 have supervised to completion (Smith, Bentham).

 Supervisory teams consist of at least 2 supervisors for each student. At the beginning of their
 studies, students and supervisors normally meet monthly and supervision notes are kept and
 signed by all parties.

 Supervisor Training
 Supervisors and PGRs can take part in regular training covering all parts of the PhD research
 journey. Training workshops and discussion opportunities include: Starting Doctoral Research;
 PhD Form 1; the Student-Supervisor Relationship; Managing your Supervisor; Progressing the
 Doctorate Journey; Finishing up and Moving On.

 Taking part in training develops supervisor confidence and expertise, equipping new supervisors
 to become qualified supervisors.

 The Research Supervisors’ Hub
 Supervisors contribute to the Research Degree Supervisors’ Hub. This includes some useful
 'quick links' for supervision practice and a supervision discussion board, where details can be
 given of any resources that are provided or a conversation can be started related to supervision
 practice. All supervisors are able to contribute to the Hub.

 PhD Examining
 Four supervisory staff have examined internal and external doctorates at various stages of the
 review process (include viva voce examinations): Bentham (1), Shelton (2), Stone (5) and
 Thompson (7). Taking part in the examination process also helps develop supervisor expertise.

 Support and Training for Research Students

 New PGR students receive the same training and development opportunities that are available
 to existing students, which starts with an initial training needs analysis and can then draw from
 the UoC’s extensive research training programme. Students are given the opportunity to register
 on the PGCert in Teaching in Higher Education, where they undertake a limited amount of
 teaching within a supportive and theoretically-engaged environment. Training is based on the
 Vitae Researcher Booklets.

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research students can also take part in an online training programme facilitated by the
 University of East Anglia. Its modules cover issue as diverse as Academic Writing, Qualitative
 Research Skills, Finishing your PhD, Teaching Skills, and Quantitative Research Skills.


 Equality and Diversity

 Equality and Diversity within context of the University and REF

 In January 2019, a University working party was established to ensure that protected
 characteristics are taken account of when considering REF requirements. Thompson (Research
 Champion for the Unit) took over as Chair of this sub-group in January 2020. Since 2019,
 training sessions in Equality and Diversity-related issues have been established, initially for sub-
 group members and Research Champions, to ensure both that staff with protected
 characteristics are encouraged to submit their work to REF, and that recognition is given to their
 particular circumstances. This training has since been rolled out to all University staff.

 The Equality and Diversity Subgroup examined the feedback from REF2014 and has taken note
 of the action points raised. This work aims to identify and explore any emerging patterns related
 to protected characteristics – particularly those cited as areas of potential concern in the
 REF2014 feedback, such as gender, age, and disability (see also REF5a).

 Unit of Assessment context

 The Unit has a long-term commitment to Equality and Diversity, both for its staff and students.
 Over time it has made staff appointments with expertise in diversity. During the REF2021
 assessment period, Gaine and Lander have undertaken work on Race (Gaine as Professor
 Emeritus), and Thompson continues to work in the field of Gender. In 2017, Young with
 Reavey published ‘Embedding Global Citizenship in Initial Teacher Education’, Shelton has
 published multiple outputs on inclusion in computing, and in 2017 Thompson published a
 monograph entitled Gender, Leadership and Management in Initial Teacher Education.

 Thompson is also a member of the University BAME Committee. In 2020 she became a
 member of the Joint Consultative Sub-Group for BAME-related issues, which is developing a
 University-wide response to ‘Black Lives Matter’. Young, also from the Unit, acts as an advisor
 to this subgroup. The Unit also has a research Centre for Special Needs and Diversity (SEND).

 Members of the Unit teach and undertake research with participants with protected
 characteristics (as defined by the Equality Act 2010), including mature women facing specific
 challenges when undertaking academic work, such as caring responsibilities and health issues.
 The University as a whole (and the Unit in particular) makes every effort to support this group,
 from structural mechanisms such as the mitigating circumstances system, to individual support
 from academic advisors and programme teams.

 For the ‘Mock REF’, a survey comparing figures for REF-submitted staff with those for eligible
 staff was sent to all members of staff, and statistics for the Unit are shown below:

        Staff on permanent/fixed-term/atypical contracts
                                          Submitted staff (%)       Eligible staff (%)
        1 - Open ended/permanent                              100.0                 95.3
        2 - Fixed term contract                                 0.0                  4.7

        Disability profile of staff
                                            Submitted staff (%)          Eligible staff (%)
        Disability declared                                        0.0                    0.0

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        No known disability                                        100.0                100.0
        Unknown                                                      0.0                  0.0

                                       Gender profile of staff
                                          Submitted staff (%)              Eligible staff (%)
        Male                                                        47.1                   34.9
        Female                                                      52.9                   65.1

                                         Age profile of staff
                                           Submitted staff (%)             Eligible staff (%)
        Aged 20-29                                                  5.9%                   2.3%
        Aged 30-39                                                 17.6%                   9.3%
        Aged 40-49                                                 35.3%                 30.2%
        Aged 50-59                                                 29.4%                 39.5%
        Aged 60+                                                   11.8%                 18.6%

                                      Ethnicity profile of staff
                                           Submitted staff (%)             Eligible staff (%)
        White                                                       94.1                   95.3
        Black                                                        5.9                   2.35
        Asian                                                        0.0                    0.0
        Other/Mixed                                                  0.0                   0.0
        Unknown                                                      0.0                  2.35

 The above data are drawn from a small sample, but the headline indications show that:
 •   The proportion of female staff submitted, while greater than male staff submitted, is lower
     than the number eligible; it should also be noted that teaching – especially primary teaching
     – is predominantly female, hence the high proportion of eligible female staff.
 •   The submission by age is skewed slightly towards the younger eligible staff members.
 •   The figures for staff with a disability are hard to access.
 •   No staff on a fixed-term contract were submitted.

 In November 2020, a survey was sent to all staff to identify barriers to undertaking research,
 what they are, and whether they are more common within certain protected characteristics.

 It is interesting to note that the accelerated need to develop online learning because of Covid-19
 has helped staff to access some research opportunities. For example, in the Unit, attendance at
 Research Cafés has improved as it is easier for staff with child or elder care responsibilities, or
 protected characteristics such as age or disability, to access online sessions. Thompson, for
 instance, was able to attend an online research conference in Germany in November 2020, and
 to carry out an online interview with a colleague in Canada in January 2021.

 Developing Equality and Diversity in the Unit: the next 5 years

 Future aims for the Unit are to formalise strategies to support staff and students at all levels of
 the research process, and especially those with protected characteristics. These will include, for
 staff, consideration of differential remission from teaching, developing opportunities for remote
 learning, and ensuring career development for part-time staff.

 Thompson is currently carrying out research on women managers and leaders who are
 ‘unretirers’, related to their REF opportunities. In addition, she and Botto, HR Manager with


                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 responsibility for Equality and Diversity, are investigating perceived barriers to engaging with
 research.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Infrastructure

 Research at the UoC and the Unit is supported by the Research Office, staffed by the Cross-
 Institutional Research Lead, the Senior Research Officer, the Research Degrees Co-ordinator
 and the Research Office Co-ordinator.

 The Research Office operates a successful Virtual Research Environment in the form of
 Research Moodle. All academic staff and research students are members of Research Moodle,
 which brings flexibility and interactivity to the University’s intranet provisions, with easy-to-use
 facilities for forums, questionnaires, news items and an attractive interface that enables video,
 audio and image files to be embedded. The Research Office also has the overview of
 accommodation for PGR students. Office space is provided on both the Bishop Otter and
 Bognor Regis Campuses, where students will normally have shared office spaces. In her roles
 as Research Champion and Research Degrees Co-ordinator for Education, Thompson works
 closely with all Research Office colleagues.

 Support for bid writing also comes from Enterprise Services. Over the course of the REF2021
 assessment period, working with a Business Development Manager from Enterprise Services,
 the Unit has put in a number of bids (see Table A below) for research funding, both with partner
 schools and other research partners.

 Activities to maximise research income capture

 In 2019, Pacella instigated a University-wide course in bid writing, and Pereira has presented a
 follow-up session at the Unit Research Café.

 In 2020, Pereira established the Research and Innovation Fund to support impactful Research
 Facilitation bids. This strategy provides internal seed corn funding for new research or support
 for external funding. As can be seen in Table A below, Cooper, Laxton, Bentham and
 Thompson were recipients of this funding.

 Income from funding opportunities

 Total income within the Unit (all sources – including consultancy work) generated on a yearly
 basis is presented below.

 Table A: Income generation during the REF period

  Name                     Year               Total Amount        Project              Funder
  Cooper and Laxton        2020              GBP3,000             International        University of
                                                                  study of Early       Chichester
                                                                  Years MESH
                                                                  guides in relation
                                                                  to the Rohingya
                                                                  people in
                                                                  Myanmar
  Everley                  2020              GBP10,000            The Child            NSPCC Child
                                                                  Protection in        Protection in
                                                                  Sport Unit –         Sport Unit
                                                                  Supporting

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                                              National
                                                              Governing
                                                              Bodies in
                                                              Hearing the
                                                              Voices of
                                                              Children: An
                                                              Evaluation of
                                                              Current Practice
  Bentham and            2020              GBP3,000           Research             University of
  Thompson                                                    Innovation           Chichester
                                                              Funding for a
                                                              research project
                                                              related to the
                                                              under
                                                              representation of
                                                              BAME students
                                                              in initial teacher
                                                              training
  Nanson                 2020              GBP10,000          Co-author for        UK
                                                              pilot in teaching    Government
                                                              assistants’          Department
                                                              subject              for Education
                                                              knowledge in
                                                              Maths
  Various Unit           2019 to date      GBP1,202           Multiple             Partner
  members of staff                                                                 Schools

  Various Unit           2018              GBP11,986          Multiple             Partner
  members of staff                                                                 Schools
  Bentham,               2017              GBP5,895           Mustard Seed         Research bid:
  Thompson and                                                Grant Evaluation     The Church of
  Smith                                                                            England
                                                                                   Foundation for
                                                                                   Educational
                                                                                   Learning
  Various Unit staff     2017              GBP6,955           Multiple             Partner
  members                                                                          Schools
  Various Unit staff     2016              GBP8,121           Multiple             Partner
  members                                                                          Schools
  Various Unit staff     2015              GBP45,394          Multiple             Partner
  members                                                                          Schools
  Various Unit staff     2014              GBP35,097          Multiple             Partner
  members                                                                          Schools

  TOTAL                                    GBP140,650

 Table B (below) provides examples of bids which, although not successful in gaining funding,
 were shortlisted and were part of the learning process for teams engaged in bid writing. For
 example, Thompson’s bid to the Society for Research in Higher Education (SRHE) was
 shortlisted but finally turned down because this sample group was felt to be too small.

  Year                 Project                               Partners

                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  2018 (shortlisted)    Project into the lived experiences of    SRHE
                        women leaders and managers who
                        are termed the ‘unretirers’

  2016 (shortlisted)    Improving Computer technology            Nuffield Foundation

  2016 (shortlisted)    Revisiting Block Play: An                Froebel Trust
                        investigation into the value of multi-
                        modal dialogue and its impact on
                        engagement with children,
                        relationships and quality of play




 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 Conferences/Workshops: organization and reviewing.

 Local, National and International Collaborations

 Professional Associations
    Staff in the Unit are members of 34 professional associations. Those associated with

   research are listed below:

 Bentham
 British Psychological Society (BPS)
 Duah
 Institute of Mathematics and its Applications
 British Society for Research into Learning Mathematics
 Sigma Network
 Nanson
 Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (FHEA)
 British Society for Research into Learning Mathematics (BSRLM)
 Shelton
 National Executive Committee of ITTE – Association for Information Technology in Teacher
 Education (2015-present).
 BERA
 FHEA
 Stone
 FHEA
 BERA
 Thompson
 American Educational Research Association (AERA)
 BERA
 Gender and Education (GEA)
 Society for Research in Higher Education (SRHE)

 Local Collaborations




                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Unit’s local collaborations draw heavily on the University of Chichester Academy Trust,
 which works extensively with 600 schools in our local region.

 In order to further develop local research collaborations in 2016, the EdPlus Journal was
 produced from and distributed to all the Unit’s Partner Schools (270 primary and 129 secondary)
 and the Academy Trust. Its purpose was to inform schools about the research of the Unit and to
 encourage partnership research projects. This extract from EdPlus provides an example of the
 way in which the journal sought to develop research collaborations:

   We would like to give you a flavour of some of the research activities that the team are
   engaged with, and we would very much like you to join us if you would like to investigate a
   particular issue in your school. Increasingly the government asks for research to be
   undertaken with schools and universities working together.

 An example of the impact of EdPlus is perceptible in terms of research undertaken by Masters’
 students within the Unit. One such research project was that of Hughes, an MA student from The
 Angmering School in 2017, entitled: ‘An exploration of enabling students in receipt of pupil
 premium funding to achieve their potential in Geography’. There is a lack of research into this
 area at a local (i.e. school-based) level.

 Other examples of local research collaborations are provided below.

 2020
 Parkes and Hewitt established: The Bridge – Online Professional Learning Hub for Education.
 The purpose of The Bridge is to enable ‘critical conversations’ between school and University
 partners and to establish a forum for research projects. This initiative is reported on at Research
 Cafés. One Unit member (Hickman) had her Bridge podcast on reading used by the Open
 University.

 2018-19
 Stone supported the UoC’s Academy Trust to make research-informed decisions for local
 primary (Hampshire and West Sussex) curriculum design and teacher training.
 Stone was invited to lead a training session for the Trust’s headteachers, governors and leaders
 of the Trust (in 15 schools), to share the research findings and theories/research into curricula.
 He carried out some activities that got schools to critique their own curricula in light of the
 research evidence. Some heads then led their own staff meetings based on Stone’s materials.

 2018
 Nanson received funding from the UK DfE to support a project to improve pupils’ transition in
 mathematics from Key Stage 2 to Key Stage 3. She is also involved in a project to improve
 mathematics in STEM delivery in primary schools.

 National and International Collaborations (see also funding opportunities)

 Existing internal and external partnerships (characterized by collaborative research) the Unit has
 pursued within the assessment period include:
    •   2020: Spain, Dominican Republic and Mexico. Design, implementation and evaluation of
        resources for a mixed reality learning environment. (Melara Gutierrez – co-investigator).
    •   2020: Spain (ongoing). Design of achievement indicators for digital competence
        mediated by emerging secondary school students. Has reached assessment stage.
        (Melara Gutierrez).
    •   2018: UK. Cathedral Group Universities Project entitled What Really Matters about
        Teacher Education at Cathedrals Universities and Colleges. The project recommended
        that Cathedrals Group universities, of which Chichester is one, make space for
                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         conversations about their distinct identity and work on shaping the precise language to
         articulate the vision, virtues and distinctiveness of the teacher education that is offered.
         The findings and recommendations were presented to the Vice Chancellors’ forum for the
         Cathedrals Group. (Stone).
     •   2018: Uganda (ongoing). with Kyambogo and Kampala International Universities.
         (Green).
     •   2016: Spain (ongoing). The development of developing competences for bilingual
         teachers. Submitted to REF as Impact Case Study. (Melara Gutierrez).
     •   2015: Jönköping Sweden. Erasmus project. Maths and Mentorship. (Howie).

 Local/Internal Research Conferences
 Over the REF2021 assessment period the Unit has organised and/or hosted a range of
 research-related conferences that serve to raise the profile of research internally and across
 partner organisations. These include:
 •   An annual University-wide research conference. The focus of these conferences is research
     undertaken by at the University. Presentation topics have included Seach’s research on
     autism and Pereira’s international research on dementia.
 •   An annual conference in Special Educational Needs and Disability, based on Seach’s
     research on autism and the research of Masters’ students.
 •   A biannual conference focussing on the research of master’s students.
 •   An annual Early Years conference, in 2019, focused Upon Nurture, Enjoyment & Success
     through Enabling Environments. Internationally recognised learning environments expert
     Elizabeth Jarman was the keynote speaker. Her research explores learning environments,
     highlighting the importance of making confident and informed choices about spaces for
     children and teachers to learn in. All these conferences take place on the Bognor Regis
     Campus, where the Unit is based.

 National Conferences

 2019
 Wilkinson: Mathematics and Science links. Keynote speech at Sussex Primary Science
 Leaders conference.

 2018
 Smith: Using Social Media to Support Trainee Teachers’ Knowledge and Understanding of
 Children’s Literature. Paper given at the UK Literacy Association conference, University of
 Cardiff.
 Stone: The shape of Initial Teacher Education in a Christian foundation university, Liverpool
 Hope University.

 2017
 Bentham: Making Pupil Voice Count: (BERA), University of Sussex.
 Bentham: Can a Motivational Journal make a difference? International School Psychology
 Conference (ISPA). The Unit supported Bentham to attend this conference which led ultimately
 to a joint publication with Iles a colleague in a partner school.
 Minett and Jackson: Exploring the mutual benefits of combining two areas of the primary
 curriculum – Languages and Dance. Association for Language Learning Conference,
 Nottingham.
 Shelton: Teaching inclusive computing lessons: curriculum, pedagogy and attitude. Technology
 in Teacher Education (ITTE) Annual Conference, University of Hull.



                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Stone: Variations in the socialisation of organisational professionalism of student teachers.
 BERA.

 2016
 Shelton: From Computational Thinking to Computational Participation. Information Technology
 in Teacher Education (ITTE) Annual Conference, London.

 2015
 Shelton: Improving primary computing CPD with ‘UpTIME’. Paper presented at Information
 Technology in Teacher Education (ITTE) Annual Conference, London.
 Stone: Organizational professional learning for performance in primary Initial Teacher
 Training. IPDA conference, Birmingham

 2014
 Bentham: We’re Learning at the same time: the impact of joint CPD. BERA, London.
 Thompson: Teachers in training… re-visioning gendered discourses? Feminism and
 Management: a Contradiction in Terms? Dundee. The Unit supported Thompson to attend this
 conference, which led ultimately to a publication in an international peer-reviewed journal.

 International Conferences

 2020
 Thompson: Women and Leadership, Dortmund.

 2018
 Shelton: Meeting the challenge of improving quality of education: models for Knowledge
 Exchange to support SDG4c. BERA Annual Conference, as part of the symposium: Younie, S.
 ‘Achieving UNESCO Sustainable Development Goal (SDG4c): Improving the quality of teaching,
 via a knowledge mobilisation strategy to develop evidence-informed practice’.
 Shelton: ‘Learning Computational Thinking: Analysing instructional videos’. Workshop at Open
 Conference in Computers in Education (OCCE). Linz.

 2017
 Shelton: How Can We Make Computing Lessons More Inclusive? at the World Conference for
 Computers in Education (WCCE). Dublin.
 2016
 Shelton: ‘Beyond lesson recipes: first steps towards a repertoire for teaching primary
 computing’. Constructionism, Bangkok, Thailand.

 2015
 Beadle: Was supported by the Unit to give a paper in Turkey which ultimately led to a publication
 in the Turkish Online Journal of Educational Technology.

 Other Activities

 Editorial Boards
 Birch: Member of the Board of the Association for Continuing Education in Esports (ACES).
 Duah: Editorial board of the journal MSOR Connections.
 Smith: Editorial Board of the Journal of Reading, Writing and Literacy.
        Reviewer for British Journal of Religious Education.

 Special Interest Group (SIG)


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Everley: Convenor for the BERA Special Interest Group (SIG) for Physical Education and Sport
 Pedagogy (PESP). Organised an annual ‘Invisible College’ (IC), a pre-conference research
 celebration and training day, 2016-2019.

 Reviewing
 Shelton: Reviewer for academic journals (Technology, Pedagogy and Education, 2017-19;
 Teaching and Teacher Education, 2017; Learning, Media and Technology, 2012) and books
 (Routledge, 2015; Sage, 2017).
 Smith: Reviewer for British Journal of Religious Education.
 Thompson: Reviewer for Palgrave MacMillan.

 Media

 2018
 Laxton: Online guidance for teaching Early Years children at home.
 Stone: Times Educational Supplement (December), letter on the national research picture of
 mental health on schools.
 Stone: Western Morning News (October), ‘The national research picture of mental health in
 schools’.
 Stone: Observer series and others (October), ‘What really matters about teacher education at
 Cathedrals’ Group universities and colleges?’

 2015
 Thompson: Times Higher Educational Supplement (July), press interview related to her article
 in Gender in Management an International Journal.




                                                                                        Page 15
