Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen’s University Belfast

 Unit of Assessment: 18


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

a. Synopsis
As a major law school in a unique jurisdiction, the School of Law at Queen’s (QUB Law) has an
established reputation for combining high-quality research with targeted impact. Our research is
underpinned by values of collaboration and collegiality. The local context gives us close links to the
legal profession, devolved government and a wide range of NGOs, fostering distinct opportunities to
deliver research and impact that is dynamic, responsive and world-leading. Links to other academic
institutions and scholars enable us to shape a range of national and international debates,
showcasing the breadth and reach of our expertise and interdisciplinary strengths.


b. Organisational Structure, Size & Content
QUB Law is comprised of 48 staff (45 FTE). In REF2014, staff research interests were aligned across
four core research clusters: socio-legal studies; human rights and public law; private law; criminology
and criminal justice. Over this period, we have used strategic investments to expand to six thematic
areas: (i) human rights and public law; (ii) criminology and criminal justice; (iii) private and
commercial law; (iv) European and transnational studies; (v) transitional justice; and (vi) a newly
developing area of law, innovation and technology.

Embracing a diverse range of research traditions (doctrinal, theoretical, socio-legal and empirical),
these thematic areas represent a mix of established and emerging areas of scholarship that reflect
the existing strengths we reported in REF2014, and our evolving staff base over the current reporting
period. Our scholarship also supports external-facing research centres: the Human Rights Centre
(HRC) (incorporating a Health and Human Rights Unit); the Institute of Criminology and Criminal
Justice (ICCJ); and a more recently established Centre for European and Transnational Studies
(CETS) that sit alongside and compliment the thematic areas (see Section 3b).

During the assessment period for REF2021, the School invested in a number of strategic posts at
both senior and early career level (see Section 2b). A new Law School building with world-leading
facilities (representing an institutional investment of £15.7M) was completed in August 2016 creating
a vibrant hub for our research ambitions. QUB Law has also played a key role in the establishment
and development of the University’s flagship interdisciplinary Global Research Institute (GRI), the
Senator George J. Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice (the Mitchell Institute).
The GRI provides a strategic platform for fostering collaborative research including funding
applications across Schools and career levels. These factors were instrumental in QUB Law moving
from 118 to 85 in the World University Rankings 2019, a significant element of which relates to
research environment and activities.

Our strong research culture sustained us in responding to COVID-19 challenges. In March 2020, the
School quickly transitioned to ‘home working’, adapting culture and practice to ensure continuity in
research (and teaching). Colleagues were invited to repurpose their conference travel allowance to
complete time-sensitive research, and we continued to support career development via online
mentoring meetings. Colleagues responded creatively, including new funded-project proposals
addressing the pandemic impact (see below).




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
c. Research & Impact Strategy
Delivering excellence across research and impact is led by a team of experienced staff. Overall
research management is led by the Director of Research (DR) (McAlinden). There is also a REF
Champion (Morison) who leads the unit’s REF preparations; a Core Disciplinary Research Group
Lead (Conway) overseeing research environment-related strategy; and an Impact Champion
(McEvoy) who leads on impact, both REF-related and more broadly. The School Research
Committee fosters collective ownership of the School’s broader research culture and strategy, with
Early Career Researchers (ECRs), Post-Doctoral Research Fellows (PDRFs) and postgraduate
research students (PGRs) represented on the Committee.

Following the announcement of REF2014 results, a comprehensive review of the School’s
performance was undertaken by the DR and presented at an all-staff seminar in February 2015. This
was used to identify ways in which the unit, in line with institutional priorities, could continue to nurture
and sustain an ambitious, world-leading research culture that would continue to deliver on high-
quality research with ‘real-world’ impact. Based on these discussions, our research strategy (2015-
2020) was drafted. This is a living document in the School’s research culture, regularly reviewed and
serving as the core framework for our research values and ambitions.

In line with our broader objective to sustain a vibrant research culture that promotes excellence and
collegiality, the School identified four key priorities, putting specific measures in place to achieve
these:


1. Enhance and maximise the quality of our outputs
In continuing to produce world-leading research with local, national and international dimensions,
our emphasis is on high-quality and ambitious outputs across all areas of scholarship. At the outset
of the cycle, the School Research Committee held individual meetings with staff to provide tailored
support. Organised visits by major publishers (OUP, CUP, Hart and Palgrave) resulted in a marked
increase in the number of monographs: 28 have been published in this cycle compared to 12 in
REF2014, achieving a core part of our REF2021 strategy.

The DR introduced strong mentoring processes, including peer review of draft outputs and advice
on targeting journals. As a result, an increased number of colleagues have published in leading
journals with a significant number of sole-authored articles produced by ECRs (e.g. Dowds in the
Modern Law Review (MLR); Corda in British Journal of Criminology; Hanna in Journal of Law and
Society (JLS)). As a Law School with a high number of ECRs (approximately 8-10 or 18-22% on
average over the cycle), senior staff also regularly co-author with ECRs. Examples include co-
authored articles in the JLS (McEvoy and Schwartz), Legal Studies (Morison and Harkens) and MLR
(Dickson and McCormick).

As part of our commitment to an affirming and supportive research culture, the School also holds a
half-day research workshop each semester. Bringing the whole School together, it facilitates a
greater level of engagement and feedback to colleagues on draft papers, book proposals and grant
applications. Successful outworkings include high-quality publications by PDRFs and ECRs
(Dabrowska-Klosinska, McCormick) and by our more experienced colleagues (McCrudden).


2. Maintain high levels of grant income, broadening scale and ambition
Being responsive to ongoing changes in research infrastructures – including broader University
goals, sector developments, challenge-led funder priorities and a growing emphasis on
interdisciplinarity – a key aspiration was to increase the intellectual scale and scope of research bids,
while preserving the strength of the discipline.

The total research income during REF2021 is £5.83M including UKRI income of £2.77M –
representing an average annual research income figure of £0.83M and a very significant increase of
45% on the average annual research income since REF2014 (of £0.57M p.a.). Notable successes

                                                                                                     Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
within this cycle include three major cross-Faculty UKRI awards, two of which were obtained by
ECRs with input from senior staff (see Section 3a).

Three further large-scale awards were obtained in conjunction with colleagues across the University
or externally where the allocation to the School-based CI was £300-600K: Flear on ‘Health
Governance after Brexit’; Ní Aoláin on ‘Gender, Justice and Security Hub’; and Mac Síthigh and
Deazley’s ‘Future Screens NI’ as part of the Creative Industries Hub.

Staff also remain highly responsive to global challenges and opportunities via UKRI and other core
funders. For example, several smaller-scale applications were successfully submitted to the GCRF
on cultural property, witness testimony and victims and international criminal justice (Hickey, Moffett,
Killean, Brunger). Similarly, a range of applications were submitted in the early weeks of the COVID
pandemic on health and human rights (Flear, Murphy – both successful) and the response of local
small businesses (Hackett).

Complementing funding success, the School has also enjoyed significant success in Fellowship
funding. A range of prestigious Fellowships were awarded to staff including Leverhulme Research
Fellowships (Dawson, McNeilly), an Eisenhower Fellowship (Mac Síthigh), a Fulbright Fellowship
(Lawther) and a Fellowship of Wissenschaftskolleg zu Berlin (McCrudden).

These awards and fellowships have contributed to the production of high-quality research outputs
combining theoretical analysis with empirical or doctrinal research, including articles in leading legal
periodicals (e.g. Mac Síthigh, MLR; McEvoy, JLS; McNeilly, Social & Legal Studies) or those written
from an interdisciplinary perspective (e.g. Ellison, Sociology; Mallinder, International Journal of
Transitional Justice) as well as sole-authored monographs (e.g. McAlinden, CUP).


3. Increase PGR completion rates, and nurture a supportive research culture
Identified as a key area of strength in REF2014, the School has sustained and grown its PGR cohort,
creating a vibrant and diverse research community. Outstanding students from across the world
carry out research on a range of topics and are supervised by world-leading scholars, spanning
doctrinal, socio-legal, comparative and critical approaches.

Recruitment has been strengthened by the excellent facilities in our new building with dedicated
PGR space and opportunities for interacting and exchanging ideas, and by the award of 41
studentships from major funding bodies in the current cycle. With 29 of these studentships secured
since 2018, we have a clear upward trajectory (see Section 2d).

In delivering excellence, we have invested significant staff resources in providing dedicated support,
mentoring and training for PGRs throughout their studies. Our completion rates demonstrate the
success of these measures, with an impressive 89 doctoral completions in this cycle, a significant
uplift on our 52 in REF2014, and equipping our graduating students for research careers at QUB
and around the world (see Section 2d).


4. Embedding internationalisation in all aspects of our research culture
As a UK Law School that is based on the island of Ireland (where there is the overlay of a new
relationship with the EU), QUB Law has a particular awareness of wider international dimensions to
legal scholarship. Current work builds upon an established tradition of international, comparative
research through outputs, external collaborations, research networking and staff exchanges (see
Section 4 below).

The School’s well-developed internationalisation strategy, reflects both its own ambitions to
contribute locally, nationally and internationally, and the University’s broader commitment to
developing strong interdisciplinary structures enabling researchers to make significant contributions,
often based on the unique experience in Northern Ireland (NI). In this way, the cross-disciplinary
Mitchell Institute and the Global Innovation Institute (see Institutional Environment Statement (IES),

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Section 2c) have emerged as a focus for international engagement involving legal scholarship (see
e.g. the ESRC-funded comparative project on ‘Lawyers in Conflict and Transition’ (led by McEvoy);
AHRC funded project on Reparations, Responsibility and Victimhood in Transitional Justice (led by
Moffett)). A number of staff are also involved in externally funded projects with academics in Europe
(Schiek), Australia (Farrell; Murphy), the United States (Lupo Pasini) and South America (Hanna; Ní
Aoláin).

The Law School’s overall internationalisation initiative is led by a Director of Internationalisation
(Brown, now Anthony) building upon existing institutional links with established Universities and
Institutes (e.g. Fordham Law School, University of Utrecht, the European Public Law Organisation)
and developing new relationships that enrich our research environment. Among the most recent
partnerships are a rolling seminar with Bocconi, Milan and a number of US and European
Universities on ‘Public Law Without the European Union’ (led by Anthony), research initiatives with
Haifa (led by McCrudden), and a project on criminal justice with Kuwait International Law School (led
by Morison). We have also hosted scholars from the China University of Political Science and Law
(led by Anthony), Jindal in India (Kelly), and the Universidad del Rosario Bogotá in Colombia
(Moffett).

Particular efforts have been made to develop new links with US Law Schools. These include
Michigan (led by McCrudden) and Minnesota (Ní Aoláin). A range of research events and public
lectures have been organised to facilitate exchange and dialogue with US scholars, including
Professor Samuel Moyn (Yale) and Professor Steven Ratner (Michigan).


Impact
Our impact strategy focuses on developing pathways to impact to maximise the broader individual
and collective contribution of our research.

The Impact Champion and other experienced colleagues support academic staff, PDRFs and PGRs
in planning and delivering impact as an integral part of funded and non-funded research. Key
components of the strategy include: (i) dedicated training seminars on impact and public
engagement; (ii) input from key users/stakeholders (e.g. local legal profession, NGOs) on their
impact requirements; (iii) users/stakeholders involved as named partners on grant writing; (iv)
securing impact-related funding where appropriate; (v) guidance on data gathering to evidence
impact outcomes; (vi) writing for a range of audiences; and (vii) support for identifying and writing
REF impact case studies.

Cumulatively, our impact strategy has inculcated a culture wherein:
   Early impact-focused engagement with local, national and international stakeholders informs
      project development.
   Ongoing review maximises potential impact throughout the life cycle of a research project.
   Impact-related research is normalised as part of research project delivery, particularly for
      ECRs and PGRs.
   Research projects produce high-quality academic research and impact with user groups
      through policy-relevant outputs and seminars.
   Dissemination and communication of our research in a range of formats, via the School’s
      website, regular news items, blogs, our LawPod series, YouTube videos and engagement
      with broadcast, print and social media.

For tangible results of this impact strategy – beyond our Impact Case Studies – see Section 4d.


d. Interdisciplinary Research
While QUB Law recognises the importance of research within traditional disciplinary boundaries,
developing interdisciplinary research and addressing real world challenges in a cross-cutting way, is
an important aspect of our strategic objectives. Our intent has been to enhance the vitality and

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
sustainability of the research environment; push the boundaries of traditional legal discourse; and
enrich the pool of subject-expertise within the School.

Specific measures and outcomes include:
    Sustained commitment to appointing highly promising scholars with undergraduate degrees
        in non-law disciplines (e.g. history, political science, anthropology, and criminology) at
        Lecturer (Lawther, Dempster, Kramer), Senior Lecturer (Bryson) and Professorial levels
        (Mallinder). This has brought immediate gains with all of these colleagues involved in
        successful interdisciplinary UKRI funded projects within this cycle (see Section 3a).
    Two of our centres, ICCJ and CETS, acting as interdisciplinary hubs that bring together
        researchers from across the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (AHSS) and
        elsewhere at events (e.g. ‘Researching Brexit’ Conference 2019, producing outputs in this
        cycle – Dobbs, Melo Araujo).
    Involvement in University-wide initiatives (see IES, Section 2c):
         Seventeen staff in the School are Fellows/Associated Fellows of the Mitchell Institute,
            with two senior colleagues (McEvoy, Mallinder) part-seconded to lead on two of its four
            interdisciplinary themes. Tangible outcomes include successful cross-Faculty grant
            applications where the PI/CI is within the School (Anthony, Bryson, Lawther, McAlinden,
            McEvoy, Moffett, Morison, Schiek), in collaboration with sociology and social policy,
            political science, history and education.
         The School has strong links with the University’s Pioneer Research Programmes (PRPs),
            which stimulate novel interdisciplinary collaborations tackling global challenges.
            Collaborative grant applications have been submitted across the University, working with
            colleagues in e.g. Pharmacy, Psychology, Nursing and Midwifery, Medicine and Centre
            of Secure Information Technologies (CSIT) (Brown, McAlinden, Morison). The
            Leverhulme Interdisciplinary Network on Cyber Security (LINCS) is a successful example
            of a £1.6M award where Law School members (Dickson, Morison) were CIs with more
            than a dozen colleagues from five other units.
         A team led by Law (Morison) with Computer Science, Astronomy and the Mitchell Institute
            has been awarded a further Leverhulme grant of £1.35M over six years for the
            Leverhulme Interdisciplinary Network on Algorithmic Solutions (LINAS) Doctoral Training
            Programme to fund 15 doctoral scholarships (with QUB/DfE ‘matched funding’ to sponsor
            a further 15 positions over the next three years).
         The Future Screens NI initiative, part of the AHRC ‘creative industries’ programme
            involving various academic disciplines from two institutions and partners from across
            industry, is co-directed by a Law colleague (Mac Síthigh).

Our interdisciplinary strengths also play a key role in sustaining and growing our PGR community.
Strategic investments in transitional justice, and our links to the ‘creative industries’, have resulted
in increased numbers of doctoral students including those funded by LINCS, NINE, and the CITI–
GENS programmes.

More broadly, we have PGRs doing interdisciplinary research; during this REF cycle, 10 of our
students had second supervisors outside QUB Law (e.g. Politics, CSIT). Our staff also supervise
PGRs at other Schools within QUB (e.g. Education and Social Work, History, Politics).


e. Open Research
A key part of QUB Law’s research environment is making our research outputs more widely
accessible to maximise public engagement. Staff upload author-accepted manuscripts onto ‘Pure’
(the University’s institutional repository) on acceptance for publication. There are high levels of
downloads from users across the world where several staff papers have download figures well in
excess of 10,000 (Anthony, Conway, McAlinden). Additionally, other staff have papers with
an altmetric score (measuring the online attention an output receives) in the top 5% of outputs across
all disciplines (Brown, Flear, McAlinden, McNeilly, Morison).


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The University has invested heavily in other digital fora such as ‘QPOL’ (Queen’s Policy
Engagement), to which Law staff regularly contribute (along with other external research blogs and
briefing paper series); and TEDx in response to the COVID pandemic (see Section 4c).

Since REF2014, the School has made extensive use of SSRN, tapping into its global audience.
Several staff members are in the top 2% of SSRN authors worldwide (McCrudden ranks 1,761 out
of about 360,000 authors, Ní Aoláin 4,384, and Mallinder 7,903). Led by our SSRN Co-Ordinator
(Hackett, now Corda), QUB Law also has its own SSRN Research Paper Series for working papers
and early-stage outputs. We also use SSRN as a mechanism for supporting ECRs, including contract
research staff, and final year PGRs in the early dissemination of their research.

Research project websites are used to disseminate major findings (e.g. Lawyers in Transition project
(2014-2017) has had 135,000 page views; Brexit Law NI, 50,435). Other colleagues disseminate
their research through engagement with non-academic audiences such as The Conversation and a
range of local, national and international media (see Section 4c).

Law School staff have also made their data sets open access, where the nature of the data and
access arrangements permit (e.g. Mallinder’s Amnesty Law Database). Open access is available
through Pure, in addition to project and funder-linked websites. Stahn’s Critical Introduction to
International Criminal Law (CUP, 2019) is one of the first such books to be fully available open
access worldwide.


f. Research Integrity & Ethics
The School and its individual researchers are deeply committed to conducting ethically rigorous
research that aims to ‘give something back’ to research participants or local communities.

The School’s Research Ethics Committee (chaired by the Ethics Co-Ordinator (Bryson, now Ellison),
and comprising academic staff and one lay member), ensures that all research is conducted in
accordance with appropriate ethical, legal and professional standards and University research
governance frameworks (see IES, Section 2f). This includes a rigorous ethical approval process,
with Faculty and University oversight, and the provision of research ethics training for all staff and
research students (e.g. Nexus NI and WAVE Trauma Centre on doing research with victims and
vulnerable populations). McAlinden is a longstanding member of the University’s Research Ethics,
Integrity and Governance Committee.


g. Future Research Vision
To build on our research strengths and advance our identity as a world-leading centre for research,
our Future Visions Document (2020) identifies five core strategic priorities:

 Quality – supporting and producing world-leading research which is recognised through peer
  evaluation and has ‘real-world’ impact.
 Challenge-led – preparing for ongoing changes in research infrastructures, including
  responsiveness to global challenges and a growing emphasis on interdisciplinarity, while
  preserving the strengths of the discipline. This focus will help us in an increasingly competitive
  research funding climate post-Brexit.
 Sustainability – building sustainable leadership by nurturing the talent of our existing
  researchers and supporting a new cohort of outstanding researchers, including sustaining (and
  growing) our PGR and PDRF communities.
 Internationalisation – consolidating our existing research relationships, and building additional
  links which offer opportunities for collaboration with leaders in the field.
 Delivering on investment – supporting further outcomes from recent investment in emerging
  research areas.



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2. People

a. Summary Overview & Approach
Overall staffing levels in the Law School have increased with new strategic investment. The School
enjoys a healthy gender balance in its staff profile, including at senior level. A range of bespoke
mentoring processes have enhanced staff career development, as recognised through promotions
and internal research prizes. Our vibrant postgraduate culture, with its large and diverse international
student community is a key feature of our research environment, showcasing our commitment to
world-leading PGR provision and support.


b. Staffing Profile & Recruitment
At the census date there are 45 FTE Category A eligible staff in the School (overall headcount of 48)
comprised as follows:

             Staff Category                      Male                         Female
             Professor                            10                            7
             Reader                                2                            0
             Senior Lecturer                       6                            5
             Lecturer                              8                            8
             Researcher                            1                            1
             Total                                27                            21

The recruitment of five female Professors (including one senior Professor at 0.2 FTE) and the further
internal promotion of two females to Chair during this cycle have resulted in a good gender balance
at professorial level (41% female) which is more than double the national average (approximately
20%) and links to our commitment to Athena SWAN (the School received a Bronze award in October
2018 – see IES, Section 3d; and further below). This links with work undertaken on the School SWAN
agenda, which has supported an increase in women at promoted levels over the REF period. Our
overall staffing is further complemented by a strong ECR cohort (approximately 20% of staff) to
ensure sustainability (see below).

The current cycle has seen a period of consolidation and growth for the School, following the
retirement/resignation of six professorial colleagues. Our recruitment strategy has been to increase
overall research capacity by converting the posts to a range of early-mid career posts (1 SL; 7 L).
Professorial replacements were made only in three instances which were allied to key research
priorities (one in transitional justice; two in law & innovation). Provision of research leadership was
maintained through internal promotions to Professor (four – 2 females, 2 males; 2 in private law, 2
in criminology/criminal justice) and the appointment of two 0.2FTE leading international academics
(Ní Aoláin, transitional justice; Stahn, international criminal law) to facilitate project-development,
mentoring, and internationalisation opportunities. The three professors who retired in the cycle
(Dawson, Dickson, Scraton) are now Professors Emeriti, retaining offices in the Law School and
contributing actively to projects, events, impact and research culture.

All but of one of our research staff are engaged on open-ended contracts, and this reflects the
School’s commitment to sustainable research (and teaching) delivery in an environment that
supports and prioritises opportunities for career development. Permanent posts are complemented
by support for high-quality, externally-awarded fellowships (one Category A colleague employed on
a 0.5 FTE fixed-term Marie Curie Fellowship at the census date). They are further complemented by
8.4 FTE teaching-only staff, led by the School’s Director of Education; and 3.5 FTE colleagues
engaged as PDRFs on fixed-term research-only contracts connected to funded projects.

The School has also secured a highly prestigious ESRC Post-Doctoral NINE Fellowship for two
successive years (Patton, mentored by Murphy (September 2018); and Agnew, mentored by

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
McAlinden (September 2019)) reflecting one of our ongoing commitments to nurturing and
supporting the next generation of research leaders. Two Senior Lecturers (Bryson, Moffett) and two
Lecturers (Dempster, Kramer) were mentored through from fixed-term grant-funded PDRF positions
to permanent academic posts.


c. Staff Development and Career Progression
QUB Law has a strong and supportive staff development strategy in place for all career stages. All
colleagues engage in the University’s annual ‘personal development review’ process, which provides
structured and supportive space to plan research objectives with a focus on career development.
Beyond this, probationary committees are created for ECRs and newly appointed staff (the Head of
School, Director of Education and DR sit on these committees in line with University policies), with
individually assigned mentors to assist with the development and achievement of publication and
research income plans. ECRs on their first academic post receive bespoke research and career
development support through these processes.

All new staff receive a generous ‘start up’ fund (currently £4,000) to be used for research purposes-
including international travel. The School also provides a generous annual conference allowance
open to all staff (up to £1,500 p.p.) to support the presentation of papers at both specialist and
generic conferences.

Our staffing strategy emphasises the importance of collegial support and peer review for researcher
development and capacity building. Senior staff provide dedicated support for career development,
including workshops and one-to-one discussions on promotions (evidenced by eight internal
promotions to SL since 2016, four females, four males; and one to Reader since 2016, male). A
Workload Allocation Model (fully-revised in 2017) seeks to ensure equity and transparency in the
allocation of research time, while optimising production and delivery of research outcomes. All
Category A staff receive a default hours’ allocation equating to 33% of their time, with options to
augment this through (i) a bidding process for additional time for a particular output/impact activity;
(ii) additional workload credit for fully-costed time on funded projects; (iii) sabbatical leave. All three
operate with regard to the quality of the intended outcomes, as well as equality and diversity
principles.

Supportive measures are in place to develop applications for our generous sabbatical leave scheme
(now administered by Faculty) – 25 sabbaticals were awarded during the cycle. Previous applications
are available on a SharePoint site, and the DR meets with all staff contemplating research leave to
review and discuss research plans. Staff are encouraged to use leave to further international links,
where it is possible for them to do so.

As noted, research mentoring has been put in place to support the publication of internationally
excellent research outputs and applications for research funding (see Section 1c). This has resulted
in notable successes for our ECRs (see Section 3a). Specific ‘in-house’ staff training and
development events take place throughout the academic year, including a half-day research
workshop each semester, grant writing workshops, and visits by leading academic publishers. These
events are also open to PGRs and PDRFs as part of the School’s open and inclusive research
culture, and its commitment – in line with the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career
Development of Researchers – to help develop their academic/professional careers; the DR is a
member of the University Concordat Implementation Review Group. As part of the Athena SWAN
action plan, the School runs an annual career development workshop for ECRs.

The University has recognised the work of specific staff in carrying out world-leading research and
impact. In 2016, Bryson was awarded the Vice-Chancellor’s Research Impact Prize (Postdoctoral
Research) in recognition of the societal impact of her research on dealing with the past. In 2018,
McNeilly was awarded the Vice-Chancellor's Early Career Research Prize, which recognises an
ECR whose research demonstrates outstanding significance and excellence in the first 5 years of



                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
their career. In 2019, Dabrowska-Klosinska, Marie Curie research fellow at QUB Law, was awarded
the AHSS Researcher of the Year Award.


d. PGR Students
Given the international profiles and diverse research interests of its staff, QUB Law continues to
attract high numbers of PGRs, even in a challenging economic climate. A significant number of PGRs
have been recruited through competitive awards from major funding bodies: 41 in total, with 29
awarded since 2018. As well as UKRI grant applications, there have also been marked successes
in AHRC and ESRC DTPs (NBDTP and NINE) as well as LINCS and DfE studentships, and now
LINAS.

High doctoral completion rates are a continuing area of strength, with 89 completions (30
professional doctorates and 59 PhDs) in REF2021 - an increase on 71% from REF2014. A key
feature of this success has been sustaining and enhancing the strategy for higher completion rates
that was implemented for REF2014: double supervision for all theses, and all PGRs undergoing an
annual progress review at the end of each academic year (with registration for the next year
dependent on satisfactory progress).

The School also implemented other strategic measures during the REF2021 cycle. In response to
the 2017 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey, a dedicated staff team was established to
support our PGRs – including an Advisor of Studies and a Training Programme Co-ordinator.

PGRs also have excellent physical facilities in the new Law School building, with shared office space,
computer provision, bookable study rooms, and communal areas across two dedicated floors. Our
PGR Administrator has daily ‘office hours’ to support students’ needs. A significant proportion of our
PGRs are co-located in the Mitchell Institute, which provides a vibrant and collegiate intellectual
environment fostering greater interdisciplinary collaboration, including the successful LINCS
programme.

As part of University regulations, full-time PGRs participate in the Research Development
Programme: i.e. 30 days training/development over the course of their PhD, including 10 days in
their first year. Within the unit, our highly structured training programme has been expanded,
ensuring our PGRs develop a range of essential skills for thesis completion and future employability,
including:
     Interview and fieldwork training, data analysis (e.g. NVivo), and developing an effective online
         presence.
     Presentation skills, including a recorded research presentation with peer feedback.
     ‘How to get a job both inside and outside academia’ and ‘how to publish academic outputs’.
Given the focus on impact-driven research, PGRs have also had training with the Knowledge
Exchange Manager at the UK Parliament. At central level, PGRs have strong links to the Graduate
School (see IES, Section 3c) and its training programmes.

A small number of staff are also involved in collaborative arrangements for PGR training: e.g. Murphy
was Pathway Director for ‘Law and Society’ within the UK ESRC NINE Doctoral Training Partnership,
2017-2019.

Fostering a dynamic and supportive research culture for our students, with an open and inclusive
ethos, has been an ongoing priority. PGRs participate in School conferences/seminars and training
workshops (e.g. grant applications, research impact). School funding is available each year (£4,000,
competitively awarded), to support students presenting their work at external events – both national
and international. A Student Researcher Network has been established where PGRs are actively
mentored by contract research staff. PGRs are also represented on the School Research and Athena
SWAN Committees, and on the HRC and CETS, and participate in strategic decision-making.



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
QUB Law actively encourages PGRs to create and sustain their own research culture, and has
supported a number of student-led initiatives including an annual PG conference (up to £1,000 p.a.).
A QUB Law PhD Student Research Network holds regular coffee mornings and ‘brownbag’ sessions
where students discuss their research. The network has its own Facebook page and Twitter feed;
has produced videos of PGRs’ research presentations on the School YouTube playlist; and has
initiated several events to provide sustainable peer-support. These include its symposium on
collaborative research; and virtual ‘shut-up and write’ sessions to encourage motivation during the
COVID-19 lockdown.

As part of our excellent mentoring and development culture, many of our recent PGRs have gone
on to PDRF positions and lectureships within QUB Law (e.g. Dempster, Dowds, Kramer, Killean,
McCormick) or other Schools in the Faculty (e.g. McNaul), and at law schools elsewhere (e.g.
Cambridge (Cobbe), Glasgow (Reilly) and Birmingham (Dickson, Harkens)).

This strong representation within UK academia is one part of our success story; international
destinations for our PGR recipients during the reporting period have included lectureships at
Australia National University (Gordon), University of Wisconsin (Murchison), and Kuwait
International Law School (Alfahad, Andaleeb). Beyond academia, notable careers include Policy and
Legislation Advisor, Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, London
(Nwabughuogu) and International Humanitarian Advisor to the New Zealand Red Cross (Dudley).

PGR prizes and awards also speak to the strength of our research environment and doctoral support.
Cowan won the 2019 ESRC National Writing Competition, and Marsh (former PhD student at QUB
Law, graduated 2017) was awarded the British Society of Criminology Book Prize 2020. Within QUB,
our PhD team was one of three finalists in the 2020 Vice Chancellor’s Research Culture Prize
(nominated for the excellence of the cultures we have created and sustained).


e. Equality & Diversity
QUB Law has a track-record of promoting equality and diversity within NI, and particularly within the
legal profession; prominent recent examples include our work on diversity in the judiciary (see Impact
Case Study), and a collaboration with the Bar Library to mark International Women’s Day in March
2020. These external contributions are rooted in a deeper commitment to equality and diversity which
permeates all activity in the School.

A bronze Athena SWAN Award (the first on the island of Ireland) recognises our commitment to
equality and diversity among staff and students. The School’s application was noted by Advance HE
as one of the strongest submissions that year, and both the award and the Law School’s ‘Gender
Principles’ are prominently displayed in the foyer of the Law School building. In 2019, the then SWAN
Champion (McNeilly) commissioned a ‘Women in Law’ artwork project to mark the centenary of the
Sex Disqualification (Removal) Act 1919. Celebrating female role models in NI, the project brought
together the first two women High Court judges in NI (both QUB Law alumni) and leading female
lawyers, academics, and policy-makers, to reflect on their achievements; it also featured a group of
current female law students. The artwork is displayed in the School and a companion text distributed
to incoming law students.

At institutional level, Brunger is founder and co-director of the QUB Gender Network, an
interdisciplinary research network of staff and PG students that strategically shapes discourse and
policy around gender issues in law and society. Brunger has been involved in a number of initiatives
related to BAME and international staff within the University (e.g. iRise), and Mallinder is a member
of the University’s Equality Working Group. McNeilly and Brunger are also current members of the
Queen’s Gender Initiative Executive (see IES, Section 3d). Beyond our institution, McCormick is co-
founder and co-director of Lawyers with Pride – a group of solicitors, barristers, trainees/pupils, legal
academics and law students showing their support for the LGBTQ+ community in NI, and Morison
is a member of the Royal Irish Academy’s very active Diversity Committee.



                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The School provides an inclusive and supportive environment for research, with a commitment to
equality of opportunity for all. Reduced teaching loads are given to probationary staff and those
returning from maternity leave (recently adapted to include returning from adoption and parental
leave) and periods of absence (e.g. illness). 'Core business hours' and 'email etiquette' policies have
been implemented to ensure that, as far as possible, School meetings are limited to 10am-4pm to
facilitate those with caring responsibilities and email is discouraged outside the hours of 8am-6pm.
Arrangements exist for remote and/or flexible working, and there are clear and structured career
pathways within the School (and wider institution) for both part-time and fixed-term staff.

Issues of diversity and gender are considered when inviting speakers for our various seminar series,
the MacDermott and Livingstone annual public lectures, international events and visiting scholar
applications. The School Management Board conducts an annual equality monitoring of the Work
Allocation Model to ensure balance in workloads across a three-year frame. The Athena SWAN
agenda is a standing item on both the School Research Committee and School Management Board,
and there is direct representation on both bodies.

The standard language of recruitment advertisements was reviewed and amended by the SWAN
Champion in March 2018. In tandem with the University’s REF Code of Practice, regular analysis is
undertaken of anonymised REF data, looking at both gender and grade level, to acknowledge
successes and identify any barriers to progression.

Colleagues were supported to work remotely during the COVID pandemic, via individual meetings
with the HoS to discuss balancing work and caring responsibilities; and in weekly online ‘check-in
meetings’.




 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


a. Research Funding & Strategies for Generating Income
Extensive and tailored mentoring was introduced to support researchers in maintaining high levels
of grant income, and in increasing the scale and ambition of applications. The School introduced a
system of internal peer review of draft applications, led by the DR and supported by senior staff, with
subject expertise and experience in peer reviewing grants and/or securing external funding. These
School models have been replicated at Faculty level.

Annual in-house grant writing workshops are led by the DR and Impact Champion (aimed primarily
at ECRs, but open to all staff and PGRs); and staff have participated in action-learning workshops
to draft and review their research applications in small group settings, led by the Faculty Research
Development Officer. Our REF Champion was instrumental in setting up a Faculty-level Pilot ESRC
Grant Application Process. Designed to assist applicants to ESRC funding schemes, it offers a fast-
track, open peer review and assessment process of advanced-stage applications prior to
submission.

Other mechanisms include senior staff with strong track records of securing external funding acting
in a mentoring capacity as CIs on applications developed and led by ECRs; and the setting up of a
School grant repository, containing the full documentation of previous successful and unsuccessful
applications across a range of funders to which all staff have access. As a result of this mentoring
culture and supportive infrastructure, a number of large-scale funding applications (c. £500K) were
submitted by ECRs to UKRI in this cycle (Moffett, Killean, Dempster, Panepinto, Lawther and
Dobbs).

As noted above, the total research income figures in this cycle significantly exceed those for
REF2014, with a clear uplift in the value and ambition of awards. The average income figure per


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
FTE staff member (£129,637) compares favourably with Russell Group Law Schools (£68,258) -
placing us 4th amongst this group (internal figures supplied by QUB for 2013-2019).

                                                REF2014       REF2021          Change in
                                                                            research income
      Total Research Income per cycle          £3,445,884    £5,833,685          + 69%
      Average income per year within the        £574,314      £833,383           +45%
      cycle
      Average Income figure per FTE staff        £86,147       £129,637           +50%
      member


b. Organisational Infrastructure
As noted above, research in the School is aligned to six thematic areas: (i) human rights and public
law; (ii) criminology and criminal justice; (iii) private and commercial law; (iv) European and
transnational studies; (v) transitional justice; and (vi) law, innovation and technology. Bringing
together staff and PGRs, the thematic areas have fluid boundaries (individuals can be associated
with more than one), and operate as small research communities in which ideas and ongoing
projects can be discussed in a supportive, informal settling. As well as fostering internal
collaborations and exchanges among staff and PGRs, the six areas help create a group research
identity for those who are not aligned with the School’s research centres, and/or the institutional
GRIs/PRPs.

The School has three dedicated research centres: HRC, ICCJ and CETS. Each is led by a senior
academic who acts as centre director (HRC – Moffett, now Lawther; ICCJ – Ellison; CETS – Schiek).
Established in 1990 and 1995 respectively, both HRC and ICCJ have played key roles in NI’s post-
conflict environment, while representing issues of national and international concern. In 2019, they
were joined by CETS. Taking advantage of NI’s geo-political position as part of the UK within the
island of Ireland, and reflecting new appointments in the field (Melo Araujo, Rieder, Schiek), CETS
involves researchers across the AHSS Faculty engaging in the interdisciplinary study of transnational
law, policy and society within and beyond the EU.

All three centres provide a focal point for harnessing discrete areas of research strengths, attracting
PGRs and engaging a variety of academic and non-academic audiences via, for example, public
seminars/conferences with high-profile external speakers and responding to public consultations.


c. Operational & Scholarly Infrastructure
As noted above, our operational and scholarly infrastructure has been significantly enhanced during
REF2021 by the completion of a new £15.7M Law School building. Located at the heart of the
campus, and designed to foster a greater sense of collegiality and collaboration, this state-of-the-art
building has a combination of dedicated offices, teaching rooms, shared flexible space and bookable
meeting rooms (at least one on each floor, with screen and AV equipment to support grant writing
and project development). Spread across 9 floors, there is an interactive Moot Court and a purpose-
built Digital Studio that supports production of LawPod (see below); two PGR floors; and individual
offices for academic and research staff on floors 5-9, including office space for visiting scholars and
honorary staff.

In terms of administrative support, the School has a PGR and REF Administrator, who supports the
REF Reading Group; a secretary who supports the Research Committee; and its own IT Officer who
plays an important role in showcasing the full extent of our research and impact activities to a wide
range of external audiences as an ongoing priority and major strategic aim. The IT Officer oversees
the School’s website, Twitter feed and Facebook page, as well as recording and uploading podcasts
and videos (on both the website and YouTube). These are used to promote research and impact



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
activities; staff successes through e.g. major publications, grant awards and prizes; public events
including conferences, visiting speakers and scholars; and PGR achievements.

Other digital communications-based initiatives include the development of LawPod. A regular
podcast that provides a reflective commentary on current legal events or insights into our current
research projects, it acts as a forum for staff and students to exchange ideas on a topic. This is led
by an academic member of staff (Killean, now Dempster) with support from UG and PG students.
Since launching in February 2018, LawPod has attracted over 77,000 unique visitors to the Law
School website; 30 staff have featured in podcast episodes, discussing their research and making it
accessible to non-academic audiences. Killean was short-listed for a Vice-Chancellor’s Staff
Excellence Award in 2019 for developing LawPod.




 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

a. Summary of Collaboration & Wider Contribution
QUB Law has a culture of sustained engagement and collaboration with both the academic
community and an array of non-academic audiences, including the legal profession, government,
NGOs and the public sector. Driven and maintained by our staff as world-leading experts in their
fields – and across all career stages – these external connections showcase the importance of our
research and impact at the local, national and international levels, substantially enriching our
research environment.


b. Academic Collaborations & Contribution to Wider Academic Community
Our staff are involved in an extensive range of academic contributions and collaborations,
showcasing the breadth and depth of our scholarship, the international and interdisciplinary reach of
our work, and QUB Law’s high esteem within the scholarly community.

Several staff have edited a major book series, shaping the relevant field, working with leading
international scholars and nurturing new talents. During the reporting period, Harvey was Series
Editor for Human Rights Law in Perspective (Hart-Bloomsbury); McCrudden for the Law in Context
Series (CUP); McEvoy for Transitional Justice Series (Routledge); and Murphy for Law and Health
(Bloomsbury-Hart). Journal editorships are another key esteem indicator; notable examples during
the reporting period include the European Human Rights Law Review (McCormick – deputy editor)
and the Leiden Journal of International Law (Stahn – editor).

As well as acting as expert peer reviewers for leading journals and academic publishers, QUB Law
staff sit on the editorial boards of a number of leading socio-legal and legal journals, forging new
contacts within the discipline and enhancing our global networks. Notable examples include Public
Law (Anthony); Conveyancer and Property Lawyer (Hickey); European Journal of Law and
Technology (Mac Síthigh); Oxford Journal of Legal Studies (McCrudden); Criminology and Criminal
Justice, International Journal of Transitional Justice, Social and Legal Studies (McEvoy); Feminist
Legal Studies (McNeilly); Journal of International Criminal Justice (Moffett); International Journal of
Public Law and Journal of Law and Society (Morison); Human Rights Law Review (Murphy).

As part of our wider interdisciplinary reach, a number of staff also sit on editorial boards of non-law
journals including Mortality (Conway); Interdisciplinary Journal of Human Rights Law (Mallinder);
Journal of Sexual Aggression (McAlinden).

Expertise and international outreach are also indicated by the range of keynotes and plenaries
delivered by QUB Law staff at major national and international conferences (academic and
practitioner). These include the Australia National University and Judicial College of Australia

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Conference on Judging and Emotion (Conway); Australasian Association of Bioethics and Health
Law Annual Conference (Farrell); National Organisation for the Treatment of Abusers International
Conference (McAlinden 2015 & 2019); Association of Law, Property and Society Conference
(Hickey); Cambridge International Law Journal-Lauterpacht Centre for International Law Annual
Lecture 2019 (Mallinder); Annual Meeting of the UN Conference on Trade and Development
(Martyniszyn); British Society of Criminology Annual Conference (McEvoy); 39th Session of UN
Human Rights Council (Murphy); Council on Foreign Relations (Ní Aoláin); the Frankfurter Institute
for European Law (Schiek); Asian Society of International Law (Stahn).

High-profile, invited named lectures include the Trinity College Dublin Annual Trinity Monday
Memorial Lecture (Bryson); the Alberico Gentili Lectures, University of Macerata, Italy (McCrudden);
Annual Nash Memorial Lecture, University of Regina Canada (McEvoy); 2018 Komendy Lecture at
Ohio State University (Ní Aoláin).

Collaborative research projects, and partnerships with other Law Schools and institutions, are key
parts of our internationalisation strategy. Beyond our unit-level links (Section 1c), visiting scholar
positions have forged a range of global connections. Notable examples include Vanderbilt University
(Conway); Erasmus Universiteit Rotterdam (Flear); University of British Columbia (Hickey); Human
Rights Centre, Berkeley Law School (Lawther); East China University of Political Science and Law
(Hanna, Martyniszyn); NYU Law School (McCrudden); Institute for Feminist Legal Studies, Osgoode
Hall Law School (McNeilly); Castan Centre for Human Rights (Murphy); Geneva Academy (Ní
Aoláin); New Zealand Centre for the Study of Europe, Christchurch University (Schiek); Graduate
Institute of International and Development Studies, Geneva (Stahn).

QUB Law staff have also edited/co-edited books and journals involving contributions from leading
international scholars. These include special issues of Law, Innovation and Technology (Farrell) and
Medical Law International (Flear), International Journal of Offender Therapy and Comparative
Criminology (McAlinden), as well as a number of prestigious edited collections: The Emotional
Dynamics of Law and Legal Discourse (Conway and Stannard); Modern Studies in Property Law
Series (Conway and Hickey); Research Handbook on Transitional Justice (Lawther and Moffett);
Reasoning Rights (McCrudden); and Criminal Justice in Transition (McAlinden and Dwyer).

Research networks highlight our ties with scholars across a range of disciplines. These include
membership of: the European Group of Public Law (Anthony and Morison); the Working Group on
Collateral Consequences of Criminal Records within the European Society of Criminology (Corda);
the European Network on Soft Law Research – SoLaR (Dobbs); the Academic Society for
Competition Law (Martyniszyn); the Legitimate Trade Governance International Network (Melo
Araujo). Flear co-chairs the European Association of Health Law on BioLaw, while Anthony and
Murphy sit on the respective Executive Committees of the UK Constitutional Law Association and
the European Masters on Human Rights & Democratisation.

QUB Law sustains and strengthen the discipline in key ways. The School hosts and edits
the Northern Ireland Legal Quarterly, a leading legal journal since its foundation in 1936. A new
editorial team (with Flear as Chief Editor and including staff at all career stages) was appointed in
2018, embedding NILQ within global scholarly networks (including an International Editorial Board).
New initiatives – including advanced open access, Contributors’ Blog, and Twitter account – have
raised the profile of the journal with monthly abstract views of over 6,000.

Numerous seminars and lectures are hosted each year, including our School of Law seminar series
(targeting external speakers in areas reflective of our diverse research interests) and bespoke series
organised by our research centres. Two major annual public lectures – the MacDermott Lecture and
the Stephen Livingstone Lecture – are delivered by high-profile academic and legal practitioners;
notable speakers in this REF cycle include Professor Andrew Burrows, Oxford University (now Lord
Burrows) (MacDermott) and Kate O’Regan, Bonavero Institute of Human Rights and former Justice
of the Constitutional Court of South Africa (Livingstone). The School hosted the prestigious Hamlyn
Lecture in 2014, 2018 and 2020. Speakers included Eleanor Sharpson QC, former Advocate General
of the European Court of Justice.

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

QUB Law has also hosted a number of major conferences during the reporting period, and these
have been key to its internationalisation strategy. Notable examples include: Lawyers, Conflict and
Transition 2016 (Bryson, Mallinder, McEvoy); Modern Studies in Property Law Biennial Conference
2016 (Conway, Hickey): Innovative Approaches to Ecological Sustainability in the EU (Dobbs);
Association of Law, Property and Society Annual Conference 2016 (Hickey); Victimhood and Dealing
with the Past in Northern Ireland (Lawther, McEvoy); Sex Offender Desistance 2015 (McAlinden);
various conferences on Brexit, 2018-19 (Bryson, Harvey, Kramer, McCrudden); British and Irish Law,
Education and Technology Association (BILETA) Annual Conference 2019 (Mac Síthigh).

The School enjoys strong links with leaned societies, including the Royal Irish Academy (RIA).
Morison is a former member of the RIA’s Council, is active on its Policy Oversight Group and led a
RIA initiative looking at support for ECRs across all disciplines in Ireland. Mallinder and McCrudden
are current members of the RIA’s Ethical, Political, Legal and Philosophical Studies
Committee (which Morison convened from 2014-2018) and which is active in organising a range of
interdisciplinary activities including seminars and lectures, policy briefings and publications. Dobbs
works with the RIA’s Future Earth. Brown is a former member of the Executive of SLSA, and Dawson
a current member of the Stair Society. Internationally, Hickey holds the role of President, Association
of Law Property and Society from 2020-21.

Membership of funding committees allows us to shape current and future research agendas, both
across the discipline and within key areas of expertise. Morison is a member of the ESRC Grant
Awards Panel (Panel B, reappointed in 2020) while Bryson, Mallinder and McEvoy have all served
as AHRC or ESRC funding panel members on particular initiatives. Murphy is a member of the Peer
Review College of the UK Research & Innovation Future Leaders Fellowships, and an International
Assessor for the Australian Research Council. Schiek is a member of the Belgian National Research
Council and the Netherlands National Research Council

Our staff are very active on the RCUK peer review colleges. Of the 23 members of the AHRC Peer
Review College from our Faculty at QUB, seven are from QUB Law (Bryson, Deazley, Mallinder,
McEvoy, Mac Síthigh, Moffett, Schiek). Another eight members of QUB Law – from all career stages
– currently sit on the ESRC Peer Review College (Anthony, Brown, Lawther, Mallinder, McAlinden,
McEvoy, Pesendorfer, Schiek), and two on the ERC (Deazley, Schiek).

Fellowships and prizes also demonstrate how our staff, and QUB Law, are held in high regard by
the scholarly community. McCrudden and McEvoy are Fellows of the British Academy. McCrudden,
McEvoy, Morison and Ní Aoláin (and previously Wheeler) have all been elected to membership of
the RIA. Mallinder and McEvoy are Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences.

A number of staff have been short-listed for/awarded major article or book prizes. Martyniszyn (2015,
2016 and 2018) was nominated for the international Antitrust Writing Award. Murphy (2014), Brunger
(2016) and Lawther (2018) were shortlisted for the SLSA Article Prize; monographs by McNeilly
(2018) and Dempster (2019) were shortlisted for the Hart-SLSA Early Career Prize. Suttle was
awarded the SLS Peter Birks Book Prize in 2019; McAlinden was awarded the Irish Association of
Law Teachers Kevin Boyle Book Prize in 2019.

More broadly, Wheeler was awarded the SLSA prize for Contributions to the Socio-Legal Community
in 2014; McCrudden was awarded DCL (Doctor of Civil Law) by Oxford University in 2018.


c. Engagement with Non-Academic Communities
Staff have developed an extensive range of relationships and personal networks with research users
and non-academic audiences, generating significant outreach and engagement opportunities.

In maintaining strong links with the legal profession in NI, the School hosts an annual Bench-Faculty
Forum where staff and senior judges in NI discuss current legal issues under Chatham House Rules.
Law School staff are academic members of the Judicial Studies Board for NI (McCrudden, formerly
                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Dawson), and have delivered the prestigious Judicial Studies Board Lecture (McQuigg). Dawson
was made an Honorary Bencher by the Inn of Court NI in 2016. Beyond NI, colleagues are academic
members of the Chancery Bar and Property Bar Associations in London (Capper, Hickey
respectively), and of the Planning and Environmental Bar Association (Kelly). Anthony is an
Academic Tenant at Francis Taylor Building, London.

The School has also hosted a number of senior judges as visiting professors including Judge
Anthony Hart (former judge of the High Court (NI)) and Justice Teresa Doherty (former judge of the
Special Court for Sierra Leone). The late Lord Kerr had also accepted a visiting professor position
in November 2020.

Our research impacts on the judiciary, at local, national and international levels. Academic works by
QUB Law staff have been cited in the NI High Court (Anthony; Conway) and Court of Appeal
(Anthony); the UK Supreme Court (Dickson); the Irish Supreme Court (Conway); the International
Criminal Court (Mallinder, Moffett); the South African Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court of
India (McCrudden). The Human Rights Centre contributes regularly to international legal practice,
and has been accepted as Amicus Curiae in reparations proceedings before the International
Criminal Court and the International Court of Justice.

Our strong connections to the legal profession and other legal agencies – in NI and beyond – creates
wider public engagement and agenda-setting opportunities. Conway and Hickey sit on the Council
of Legal Education (NI), and McCormick is a member of the NI Committee of the Franco-British
Lawyers Society. High-profile talks have been delivered to lawyers and legal services agencies (e.g.
Government Legal Service of NI (Dickson and McCormick); Criminal Courts of Justice, Dublin 9th
Martin Tansey Memorial Lecture (McAlinden); 12th Annual Lecture on the Legal Profession at
Georgetown University (Ní Aoláin)). Specialist advice to law reforms bodies through responses to
reports and invited lectures (e.g. Law Commission of Ontario Conference (Mac Síthigh); Irish Law
Reform Commission Conference (McCrudden)) are further examples of QUB Law influencing
change in legal systems.

QUB Law staff have provided specialist advice to government, and government appointed
commissions, within the UK, Ireland and further afield. Notable examples, involving staff at all career
stages, include oral and written evidence to the:
     House of Commons and House of Lords Constitutional Committees on the implications of
       Brexit (Anthony)
     Irish Dáil Committee on the Implementation of the Good Friday Agreement (Bryson, McEvoy)
     Independent Hate Crime Review for NI (Brown)
     Gillen Review into Serious Sexual Offences in NI (Dowds)
     NI Justice Committee on Human Trafficking (Ellison)
     UK Government Infected Blood Inquiry (Farrell)
     Scottish Parliament on clinical trials, pharmaceutical law and Brexit (Flear)
     Dáil Committee on Equality and Justice on the human rights and constitutional implications
       of Brexit (Harvey)
     EU Security and Justice Sub-Committee, House of Lords (Kramer)
     Australian Royal Commission into Institutional Responses to Child Sexual Abuse
       (McAlinden)
     US Congress and UK Defence Select Committee (McEvoy), and NI Affairs Committee on
       dealing with the past (Mallinder, McEvoy)
     Northern Ireland Office, NI Assembly and House of Lords on victims’ pensions (Moffett)
     International Criminal Court on revising complementarity (Stahn)

QUB Law staff also make a significant contribution to the membership of advisory boards, public
bodies and NGOs at local, national, and international levels. Brown sits on the Lord Chief Justice’s
Sentencing Group in NI. Bryson is chair of the Committee on the Administration of Justice (NI)
(Mallinder, McEvoy and Ní Aoláin also sit on its Executive Committee). Flear is a member of the
Northern Ireland DNA Governance Board and of the Ethics Advisory Board for the REspiratory
Syncytial virus Consortium in EUrope (RESCEU) project. Hackett is a member of the NI Human

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Rights Commission Business and Human Rights Group. McEvoy is a member of the London-based
human rights NGO, Rights and Security International. Martyniszyn is member of the International
Advisory Board of the Institute for Consumer Antitrust Studies at Loyola University Chicago.
McCrudden is a member of the Human Rights Advisory Committee of the Irish Department of Foreign
Affairs and Trade.

Conway (formerly Dawson) is the NI representative on the Institute for Advanced Legal Studies
Advisory Council, London. McCrudden sits on the Advisory Committee of the Institute for Advanced
Studies, Berlin and Morison was an Independent Board Member of the Legal Services
Commission/Agency.

Wider reach and influence are also demonstrated by membership of important national and
international committees, engaging with and influencing other professional bodies. Notable
examples include:
     Insolvency Licensing Committee (Capper, until 2018)
     Environmental Justice Network Ireland (Doran)
     National Executive Committee of the Australasian Association of Bioethics and Health Law
        (Farrell)
     Northern/Ireland Health Law and Ethics Network (Flear)
     Non-Governmental Advisor to the International Competition Network (Martyniszyn)
     Scientific Committee of the European Commission's European Network of Legal Experts in
        Gender Equality and Non-Discrimination (McCrudden)

QUB Law also engages with external research users through consultancy work – at both national
and international levels – and the production of associated policy reports and briefings. Specific
examples include work for the UK Intellectual Property Office (Deazley), the UK Department of
Health (Farrell), the Centre for Humanitarian Dialogue (Mallinder), and the production of a UN
Consultancy Report on Apologies for the Special Rapporteur on Promotion of Truth, Justice,
Reparations and Guarantees of Non-Recurrence (Bryson and McEvoy).

The HRC responds to government consultations on a wide range of human rights related issues
including submissions to the NI Department of Justice’s Consultation on Tackling Modern Slavery
and the Historical Institutional Abuse Inquiry. Involving staff, LLM and PhD students, these responses
give students a first-hand opportunity to engage in human rights campaigning.

More generally, Law School staff make sustained and significant contributions to the economy and
society by showcasing the value of their research beyond the academy. Key activities include
Knowledge Exchange Seminars, and writing for QPOL; a number of individuals have been very
proactive (e.g. Dowds, McAlinden, McQuigg), with other colleagues contributing to national and
international blogspots including the UK Constitutional Law Association (McCormick) and
JusticeInConflict (Moffett). QUB Law staff write regularly for The Conversation (e.g. Dowds, Lawther,
McQuigg) and with significant results: Conway’s ‘Five Laws About the Dead’ has 813,587 reads;
Dobbs, ‘Can You Really be GM Free’ has 69,785. With other QUB academics, Conway was part of
the University’s first digital TEDx event, reflecting on the COVID-19 pandemic.

As well as local media, QUB Law academics frequently provide expert commentaries for a range of
national and international media. Notable examples include China Global Television Network
(Conway); The Economist (Ellison); The Telegraph (Flear); The Irish Times (Harvey, Kramer,
Martyniszyn); The Guardian (Kramer, McEvoy); BBC Radio 4 Evening News (Scraton); Pacific Daily
News/USA Today, Sydney Morning Herald (McAlinden); The Independent (McNeilly);
Deutschlandfunk (German National Radio) (Schiek, Stahn); Channel 4 News (Scraton);

QUB Law views community and social outreach work as an important example of good citizenship
and ‘giving back’. Bryson is an Executive Board Member (now Treasurer) of Diversity Challenges, a
cross-community cultural outreach organisation funded by the Department of Foreign Affairs, Arts
Council NI and National Lottery. Working with Co-Operation Ireland, Kramer has led several events


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
on Brexit and youth views in NI; Moffett has delivered workshops and pro bono talks to WAVE
Trauma NI, a local organisation representing victims-survivors.

Participation in the governance structures of charitable organisations is another important example;
Anthony (replacing Morison) is currently a trustee of the Hamlyn Trust which, through its lectures,
makes law accessible to the public. Conway is a Council Member and charitable trustee of the
Cremation Society of Great Britain, and gave expert advice to the UK Deceased Management
Advisory Group during the COVID-19 pandemic.



d. Wider Impact on Non-Academic World & Communities
Our impact strategy has resulted in a sustained and profound range of impacts in diverse local,
national and international communities. Staff across all career levels are engaged in impact work,
building on already strong links with a range of non-academic stakeholders.

Funded research projects have generated numerous policy-facing outputs, translated into local
languages. Produced in conjunction with local stakeholders, these reports have been utilised to
effect change. Notable examples include:
     ‘Lawyers in Conflict and Transition’ (ESRC, McEvoy PI) – produced 12 reports for local users
        in 6 countries. One report has been used by Cambodian human rights NGOs to press for
        greater independence of the local bar.
     ‘Dark Tourism in Cambodia’ (NI GCRF, Lawther, Killean, Dempster) – in partnership with a
        local NGO in Cambodia, co-produced a report on a more 'victim-centred' approach to
        Cambodia's sites of 'dark tourism'.
     ‘Brexit Law NI’ (ESRC, Harvey PI) – co-produced 7 policy reports with the project partner
        (local human rights NGO, CAJ) on topics including Brexit and the Peace Process. Widely
        used by anti-Brexit political parties and NI civil society groups, these have featured heavily
        in parliamentary debates in Westminster and Dublin.
     ‘Victims and Dealing with the Past’ (AHRC, Lawther PI) – produced guidelines for journalists
        on dealing with conflict survivors in NI. These guidelines were endorsed by the National
        Union of Journalists, the DART Centre for Journalism and Trauma (Columbia Journalism
        School) and the Commission for Victims and Survivors Northern Ireland and are now being
        utilised by BBC NI.

Staff have also engaged in high level impact work, working with or on behalf of the UN, governments
and government commissions.
     Brown authored a report for the NI Commission for Older People, on improving the
        experiences of older victims of crime. This is currently being implemented, following
        endorsement by the NI Assembly.
     Dowd’s submission to the Gillen Review into Serious Sexual Offences in NI is singled out in
        the final report, which adopts her recommendation on the definition of ‘consent’.
     Moffett has worked closely with the NIO and Stormont government as well as local victim
        NGOs in developing pensions’ legislation for seriously injured victims of the NI conflict.
     In 2017 Ní Aoláin was appointed UN Special Rapporteur on the Promotion and Protection of
        Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms while Countering Terrorism and has produced
        reports on Belgium, France and Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, Kazakhstan and Sri Lanka – each of
        which have become key sources of activism by local stakeholders.
     O’Neill’s co-edited book on Global Patient Safety: Law, Policy and Practice (2018) was
        informed by patient safety symposia involving senior officials from the Ministry of Health in
        Uganda and Kenya. As a result of the book, the Latvian Ministry of Health introduced
        improvements to its patient safety regulatory frameworks.

HRC submissions to public consultations (as noted above) also involve staff and PG students in a
range of legal impact activities.



                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In sum, our research environment is one that speaks to a clear commitment to promoting world-
leading research and impact through: maximising collaborative networks and opportunities for
cutting-edge research; and nurturing and supporting our research talent to foster individual and
collective success. Our mission is based on maintaining quality, enhancing internationalisation,
strengthening interdisciplinarity and delivering on strategic investments as part of an engaged and
outward-looking research environment.




                                                                                          Page 19
