      Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Institution: University of Sussex

       Unit of Assessment: 22 Anthropology and Development Studies

       1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

       1.1 Unit context and structure
       Since its foundation in the 1960s, Sussex Anthropology has always sought to identify,
       understand and address emerging forms of inequality, incomprehension, injustice and disrespect
       in evermore interconnected worlds. Sussex Anthropologists have always seen their discipline as
       part of the world, not a refuge from it. The key aim under the review period has been to
       consolidate Sussex’s position at the centre of the discipline nationally and internationally, whilst
       expanding its interdisciplinary ambition, particularly through engagement with International
       Development.

       Sussex Anthropology has always operated in an interdisciplinary context – initially as a subject
       group spread across Sussex’s historic Schools of Studies, and now as a Department within the
       School of Global Studies, where it sits alongside Geography, International Development and
       International Relations. Although an Anthropology submission, we suggest a number of the
       submitted publications be directed to International Development assessors.

       1.2 Research strategy
       Our central objectives for 2014-21 have been:
       • to continue producing field-based research that pushes analytical and disciplinary
           boundaries, and addresses problems posed by the contemporary globalised world
       • to expand and consolidate international and interdisciplinary networks through research
           collaboration, publication and conferences/symposia/workshops
       • to build and expand the impact of Sussex Anthropology research

       To deliver these objectives, our ongoing strategy comprises six elements: (i) Thematic Priorities;
       (ii) Global and Interdisciplinary Linkages; (iii) Research Impact; (iv) Researcher Support; (v)
       Maximising Research Quality; (vi) Research Funding.

       Sussex Anthropology’s strength lies in its global expertise (which covers Europe, South America,
       Africa, Middle East, and South, East, Central and Southeast Asia), its international and
       interdisciplinary collaborations, and its engagement with pressing global issues. The dual nature
       of our Anthropology and International Development research yields a far-reaching integration of
       theoretical conceptualisation, and engagement with policy-making.

(i)    (i) Thematic Priorities
       Sussex researchers are free to pursue their own research agendas and adapt flexibly to address
       emerging questions and interests, but we collectively identify and foster thematic clusters,
       oriented around pressing global issues. These are not exclusive ‘research groups’ but rather
       a means of galvanising collective endeavour to focus activity and generate synergies. They also
       shape our recruitment strategy. Most faculty contribute to a number of these priorities. We
       currently have five priority areas:

       Priority 1: Economy, Ecology and Mobility
       This theme supports research on markets and financialisation practices across a range of
       sectors, including the garment industries, mining, energy, coffee, environmental offsetting, sport,
       higher education, medicinal products (Leutchford, Mitchell, Sleeboom-Faulkner, Schwittay). This
       research has been consolidated through the recruitment of Gilbert and Hunter, through
       organising collaborative workshops such as Prentice and De Neve’s workshop on health and
       safety in the garment industry, and research grants for Rajak and De Neve. This theme also
       supports research on labour relations, precarity and compensation struggles, and
       exclusions in global production networks (Harrison, Kea). Grants in this area have been secured

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by Prentice, on post-disaster compensation schemes in the garment industry, together with
 ESRC-funded doctoral studentships. A third area in this theme is agrarian transformation,
 environmentalism and the commodification of nature. The recruitment of Petty to a
 lectureship and Ece to a Newton Fellowship has strengthened this area, as has Killick’s
 collaborative GCRF and ESRC grants, examining conservation and environmental justice in the
 Amazon. Transnational economic networks are also covered in this theme, and consolidated
 through the appointment of Ibanez-Tirado, as well as Marsden’s ERC project on global traders in
 China. The theme also includes: research on international economic competition in the
 biosciences, enabled by Sleeboom-Faulkner’s ERC and ESRC grants, and her team of
 postdoctoral researchers; research on transnational mobility, including Fechter’s work on
 economies of displacement in Southeast Asia and Kea’s EU Horizon 2020 project on refugee
 policy in the EU. Finally, this theme supports research by Gilbert, Rajak and Kaur on the
 extractive and energy industries.

 Priority 2: Religion, Ethics and Morality
 This theme supports research on the place of religion and political ideologies in both everyday
 morality and in development ethics. Our research covers popular and ‘everyday’ religion,
 ritual, miracles, and links with the senses and selfhood – as manifest in work by Mitchell, Osella
 and Marsden. It encompasses work on environments and multispecies assemblages and is
 bolstered by the recruitment of Petty and supported, for example, by Fairhead’s university ‘seed
 funding’. The theme also includes work on the ethics of charity, philanthropy, and social
 responsibility, whether examining ‘volunteering‘, ‘Fair Trade’ or ‘Corporate Social Responsibility’
 (Fechter, Rajak, Osella, Luetchford, De Neve). This work was supported by Rajak’s grant on
 ‘doing good’ in corporate capitalism and incorporates work on emerging social practices and
 meanings of aid, including Citizen ‘DIY’ Aid and grassroots humanitarianism. Finally, the theme
 supports work by Unnithan, Sleeboom-Faulkner and Mills on bioethics and the life sciences,
 and its implications for reproduction, disability and vulnerability. This theme has also allowed
 Sussex Anthropologists to take a leading role in international debates about research ethics in
 Anthropology.

 Priority 3: Rights, Justice and Violence
 Sussex Anthropology has a world-leading reputation in the Anthropology of Rights, as
 demonstrated by Cowan’s visiting chair at Helsinki. Our research focuses on the
 institutionalisation of rights and reconciliation (Boyce, Mills, McLean, Prentice) – including
 Cowan and Billaud’s work at the United Nations and Eltringham’s at the International Criminal
 Court; the role of narrative in making sense of violence and evil (Eltringham, Leopold); the
 place of ethnicity, gender and age in violence and reconciliation; revolutionary politics and
 its legacies (Wilson); and reproductive, health, gender, labour and sexual rights. (Unnithan,
 Boyce, Prentice, Mills), fostered by the recruitment of Mills and supported by consultancies and
 grants to McLean and Unnithan.

 Priority 4: Gender, Sexuality and the Body
 This theme marks the consolidation of our work on gender, sexuality and health, which we
 signalled as an emerging area in our 2014 REF submission. It builds on our agenda-setting
 research on citizenship, participation, equality and gender (Boyce, Fechter, Harrison, Petty,
 Mitchell). The appointment of Petty and Mills has extended this area into the senses, other-
 abled and commodified bodies. It includes research on selective abortion and assisted
 reproductive technologies, supported by Unnithan’s ESRC grant on son preference and sex
 selection, and Sleeboom-Faulkner’s ERC and ESRC grants; occupational health (Prentice,
 Mills); and sexualities and HIV prevention (Boyce, Mills). Further work on blood, tissue
 banking and techno-scientific notions of the body are supported respectively by Unnithan’s
 Newton-funded project and Sleeboom-Faulkner’s grants. Finally, this theme dovetails with our
 work on migration, which looks at gender and sexuality among mobile professionals
 (Fechter), in gender-based violence (McLean); transnational parenting (Kea); male sociality
 and identity amongst Gulf migrants (Osella); and health systems (Unnithan).



                                                                                        Page 2
       Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        Priority 5: Health, Technology and Science
        This theme clusters research on governance and moral economies of international science
        collaborations in and with Asia, developed via funding and postdoctoral researchers recruited
        by Sleeboom-Faulkner and Unnithan. Along with Mills, they have also examined the shifting
        relationship between science and technology, the state and society, concerning reproductive
        technologies, health and wellbeing, biotechnology and epidemics (Petty, Fairhead). It also
        supports research on the global dynamics of science and technology development, in nuclear
        power, finance, life sciences and health (Gilbert, Hunter, Kaur, Sleeboom-Faulkner,
        Unnithan).

(ii)    (ii) Global and Interdisciplinary Linkages

        Interdisciplinary Research Centres
        These problem-focused thematic priorities have rendered interdisciplinary collaborations
        germane to our research over many REF cycles. It is now also encouraged by University
        institutional support (see section 3). The everyday interdisciplinarity of our School manifests in
        collaborative research and publications, exemplified in De Neve’s collaboration with Carswell
        (Geography, with BA, Leverhulme and ESRC funding) on skill development in India. Our
        interdisciplinary Research Centres support critical interdisciplinary scholarship in regular
        interdisciplinary seminars, building networks with researchers and user-communities, helping our
        research agenda-setting, and developing the critical mass evidenced in viable funding
        applications. Migration research is nurtured within our interdisciplinary Sussex Centre for
        Migration Research and its Development Research Consortium (funded by DfID) on Migrating
        Out of Poverty, with Fechter on its Executive Committee. Our health research is framed within
        the Centre for Cultures of Reproduction, Technologies and Health (CORTH) founded and
        directed by Unnithan, and by the Centre for Global Health Policy.

        Interdisciplinary research on violence is nurtured within the Sussex Rights and Justice
        Research Centre, co-founded and co-directed by Jane Cowan. Marsden leads the University’s
        Sussex Asia Centre which provides anthropology with a unique platform to engage with
        interdisciplinary research across Asia, for example on Marsden and Osella’s work on Asian
        trade networks. Sleeboom-Faulkner established the ERC/ESRC-funded global Centre for Bio-
        Networking, which has involved the appointments of 10 research staff conducting fieldwork.
        Funded interdisciplinary networks include the ESRC-funded STEPS Centre (linking the
        Institute of Development Studies on campus with Global Studies and Science and Technology
        Policy Research - SPRU), which provided a context for Fairhead’s work on ‘anthropogenic dark
        earths’.

        International and Interdisciplinary Co-Authorships
        Of around 305 peer-reviewed articles published in this REF cycle, nearly half were co-authored
        with colleagues from other disciplines including social work, communication, geography,
        ecology, economics, history, geoscience, cognitive science, agriculture, forestry, neuroscience,
        human resource management, valuation studies, law, Science and Technology Studies, trade,
        regulation, international relations, politics, psychology, global health, sociology, media, medicine
        and philosophy. Our co-authors are based in India, Bangladesh, Mainland China, Taiwan, Hong
        Kong, Japan, South Korea, Thailand, Germany, France, Switzerland Italy, Turkey, Netherlands,
        Portugal, Denmark, Norway, Finland, USA, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Bolivia, Argentina,
        Brazil, Peru, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Sierra Leone, Tanzania, and Congo.

        Workshops and Conferences
        We organised 68 workshops and conferences and a further 26 panels at conferences during this
        REF cycle, whether on campus or internationally, co-convening five in India, three in Africa, and
        three in Chinai and many more in Europe and the US. These workshops span all our research
        themes, whether in anthropology’s interdisciplinary or its comparative mission, and contributed
        to many of the special editions of journals and edited volumes profiled in our publications. To


                                                                                                 Page 3
        Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         enable our wider research community to remain abreast of this intense activity, we produce a
         termly ‘in-house’ newsletter Sussex Anthropologist, which is widely read, also by our students.

(iii)    (iii) Research Impact
         Sussex Anthropology has longstanding practices of formulating and conducting research in
         articulation with users, whether in collaboration, critique, or more usually in an unfolding mix of
         critical engagement. This ensures that impact is achieved across all our research themes. This
         is evident not only in our impact case studies supplied, but in impact accounts from Boyce,
         Prentice and Killick; on-going impact of two previous case studies from REF2014 (Eltringham,
         Fairhead) and from those, like Cornwall, who have left us.

         Sussex Anthropology thrives on the use of Green and Gold Open Access, allowing to strengthen
         its impact, while enabling co-researchers across the world to access what we regard as co-
         produced research. Al publications are made publically available through our online system (see
         below). The School of Global Studies has developed an Open Access (OA) initiative to make
         publicly-funded research outputs in academic journals freely available. The Department follows
         the guidelines of the EASA concerning data-sharing, assigning responsibility to leaders of
         research to protect research materials from unwarranted use by third parties. With various
         large grants, we use UKRC funding for Golden Access and make use of Open Choice
         arrangements the University has with publishers, such as Sage.

         Our three impact case studies cover the range of our thematic areas: Fairhead on Health,
         Technology and Science; McLean on Gender, Sexuality and the body; and, Marsden on
         Economy, Ecology and Mobility. They also reveal our range of strategies to achieve impact, from
         co-production with users (Osella, Marsden), to the straddling the academic and policy worlds
         (McLean), the punctual mobilisation of findings (Fairhead), and proactive interventions into policy
         process (Unnithan). They capture, too, the different modes of school and university support to
         impact, from internal and external impact funding, to support in projecting findings to media,
         political and policy community.

         We run an in-house ethnographic film-making course annually for graduate and faculty
         anthropologists. Our University media support trained faculty in media skills and placed timely
         blogs in ‘The Conversation’ (Fairhead, Prentice and De Neve, Kaur), and supported short
         podcasts (Fairhead) to profile research of high potential impact. Our School’s Pathways to
         Global Impact supports professional communication, including our ‘Global Insights’ policy
         briefings and funds academic time dedicated to impact. The Policy@Sussex Impact Acceleration
         initiative funded by the ESRC Impact Acceleration Account connects social-science research to
         a wide range of stakeholders. It funded Fairhead, Prentice, Osella and Unnithan to develop
         Policy Briefings and workshops. The Safe@Sussex Research Programme provides funding for
         promoting research into policy (McLean). Research England’s International Development
         Challenges Fund supported Prentice’s research engagement and dissemination the predicament
         of precarious garment workers. University employment policies encourage academics to conduct
         consultancy, enabling us to develop research-led, university-endorsed links with the policy and
         business world, and establish research-led knowledge partnerships, such as McLean’s
         consultancies on violence against women for the House of Commons.

         From 2021 we plan to:
         • further improve our policy engagement through the dedicated Policy@sussex team, that
            provides advice and support around focused communication tools and events and
            coordinating responses to specific enquiries and calls for evidence.
         • enhance our collaborative relationships, including through the School’s 14 research
            centres and networks and through building impact links with visiting and associate
            researchers and facilitate secondments of academics to policy institutions to enhance user
            networks.
         • institutionalise impact into all elements of departmental activities, incorporate impact into
            annual appraisal, mentoring and promotion. And we continue to deliver wider impact through
            research-led teaching to educate the next generation.

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In short, our research focus on globally pressing issues, fostering of interdisciplinary linkages in
 global research partnerships, and support for ensuring research impact has resulted in a robust
 research basis.

 2. People

 2.1 Researcher Support
 We support a strong disciplinary research platform throughout the career cycle. To ensure that
 Sussex Anthropology remains research-led and to enable robust research engagement with
 contemporary global challenges (see 1.2), this second half of our research strategy fosters a
 supportive context for researchers at all stages to conduct high-quality research and
 publications.

 Our research strategy builds research capacity throughout the career cycle from
 undergraduates to professors. Our anthropology and interdisciplinary Masters programmes
 focus on our thematic research areas, and those that attract doctoral students. We also have a
 ‘research-led’ third year curriculum for undergraduates. Each year some go on to do a PhD. We
 support publication of our best research-based undergraduate and postgraduate dissertations
 on-line; and in peer-reviewed publication (e.g. of Sandri 2017, 2018 and Houldey 2019). We
 offer annual prizes (e.g., the David Pocock Prize, the Epstein Prize and the MacQuitty Prize for
 the Humanities and Social Sciences) and submit to international and national prizes, with
 Camilla Devereux winning the international ‘Undergraduate Award for Social Science’; Natasha
 Hoare and Elena Corradi being ‘Highly Commended’, and Chloe Place being a finalist in ESRC’s
 ‘Better Lives’. Global Studies undergraduate students have edited the interdisciplinary journal,
 Global Horizons since 2017.

 We build a strong community of Doctoral Research Fellows. All receive mentoring and office
 space and have access to our internal research-support procedures. They receive academic and
 professional training co-ordinated by the University Doctoral School, in line with the Vitae
 Researcher Development Framework. They are funded and supported by the ESRC-funded
 SeNSS Doctoral Training Partnership and the AHRC-funded CHASE partnership. Since 2014
 our doctoral student numbers have remained steady, with a total of 47 theses published (2014–
 20). In this census period, 42 PhDs completed successfully, with 24 students receiving funding,
 and 40 newly started. Students are only accepted and co-supervised after careful consideration
 of their supervisory needs and fit with our research themes and centres.

 Since 2014, we have hosted 24 Early Career Researchers (postdocs) for between 1 and 3
 years each, fifteen of which were linked to project grants. We fund postdocs when we can (e.g.
 Demet Dinler’s two years as Helena Normanton Research Fellow) and encourage and support
 external funding applications.

  Post-doc                                 Mentor             Funder
  Jessica Sklair                           Rajak              ESRC
  Marcio Vilar                             Sleeboom-          German Academic Exchange
                                           Faulkner           Service
  Marco Di Nunzio, Catherine               Rajak              Université Libre, Brussels;
  Boulais, Deniz Seebacher                                    Université de Laval, Quebec;
                                                              University of Vienna
  Melis Ece                                Fairhead           BA Newton International Fellow
  David Sancho                             Osella             British Academy
  Thembi Mutch                             Fairhead           AHRC
  Nattaka Chaisinthop, Choon-key           Sleeboom-          ERC and ESRC Grants
  Chekar, Carolyn Heitmeyer,               Faulkner
  Jessica Chang, Masae Kato,
  Prasanna Patra, Achim Rosemann,
  Marina Marouda


                                                                                          Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Post-doc                                Mentor            Funder
  Ben Kasstan, Rebecca Ashley,            Unnithan          ESRC Grants
  Nehall Bajwa
  Heila Sha, Diana Ibanez-Tirado,         Marsden           ERC Grant
  Marina Marouda
  Canford Chiroro                         Harrison          ESRC/DfID Grant
  Tom Widger                              Osella            ESRC Grant

 Our care in mentoring has ensured that the majority of these postdocs have found research-
 related employment, and some have gone on to posts at Sussex itself.

 Since 2014 we have increased our full faculty from 21 to 26.8 FTE, losing Cornwall,
 Dalakoglou, Mathur, Chong, and Billaud (to SOAS, Free University of Amsterdam, Oxford, UCL
 and Geneva, respectively) but allowing the strategic appointments of Paul Gilbert, Diana Ibanez-
 Tirado, Magnus Marsden, Elisabeth Mills, Karis Petty, Benjamin Hunter, Anke Schwittay and
 Alice Wilson, with McLean increasing to 0.8 FTE (still straddling research and professional
 practice). We support all faculty in conducting and financing field research. We support a six-
 month ‘sabbatical’ study leave every 3 years, and offer additional leave strategically and
 transparently, mindful of the pressures on early-career academics and on finishing monographs
 (eg: Kaur, Unnithan and Leopold, who all received strategic and timely research leave to
 complete writing projects). Leave applications require upfront plans and are reviewed internally
 beforehand and afterwards. We plan teaching allocation to enable teaching-free terms when
 possible, and being ‘research-led’, we ensure that teaching dovetails with our research interests.
 Our critical mass means that leave for research purposes supported by external funding sources
 can always be agreed.

 2.2 Maximising Research Quality
 Our strategy for supporting research and career development for faculty includes: (i) annual
 appraisals to discuss and plan career objectives, achievements and areas where support is
 needed; (ii) annual personal rolling ‘five year’ research planning meetings with the department
 research committee, who advise Head of Department on allocating departmental research
 resources and study leaves; (iii) mentoring all early-career staff (including temporary lecturers)
 by a senior colleague, who provide feedback on draft outputs and grant proposals, and regular
 meetings to advise on research planning and career progress; (iv) university-wide training in all
 dimensions of research management, from grant-application strategy and writing, through to
 ethical practice and permissions; (v) department and school-level internal peer review of
 research proposals; (vi) seed funding for ‘start-up’ projects such as workshops (section 3); (vii)
 personal research funds of £750+ for research travel and conference attendance, supplemented
 by (viii) ‘research incentive funds’ feeding back a proportion of overhead funding to researchers.

 We help develop high-quality, widely-accessible, research-based publications for researchers at
 all levels. Our extensive internal peer-review system provides feedback to faculty and post-docs
 on their academic writing as well as grant applications. We value and support the substantive
 contributions of monographs to our discipline (10 of 20 appear in our submission). We value the
 comparative and cumulative contributions gained from editing collected volumes (5 edited books
 and 9 special issues appear in our submission). We encourage publishing in peer-reviewed
 journals, publishing 305 articles and 29 special collections during the review period. This
 ensures quality and accessibility, yet we also value high-quality peer-reviewed book-chapters
 (78 in the current REF-period), that are integral to the comparative ambition of edited volumes,
 and the discipline as a whole.

 Our supportive and creative atmosphere is visible in our healthy balance between staff retention
 and turnover, and in our promotions. In this census period, 3 staff (1 woman and 2 men) have
 been promoted internally to Professor (Harrison, De Neve, Mitchell), making for 5 female and 5
 male Professors. Five have been promoted to Senior Lecturer (Boyce, Mills, Prentice, Wilson
 and McLean) and 4 to Reader (Rajak, Fechter, Eltringham and Kea), meaning that over two-third
 of promotable faculty have been either promoted or recruited since 2014. 7 out of 11 promotions

                                                                                        Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and 8 out of 10 new appointees were women, and our gender division for our REF submission is
 58% female/42% male (and overall 63%/37%, December 2019). Our University’s family-friendly
 policies support this, including timetabling prioritization, arrangements for flexible working, and
 enhanced maternity and paternity leave. We are currently well balanced between early- and mid-
 career staff and Professors, with 4 Lecturers, 9 Senior Lecturers, 4 Readers and 10 Professors,
 with 60% aged 30-50 years and 40%, 50-70. We are also strongly international with nearly 50%
 non-British faculty (by birth); 24% who self-identify as BAME; and 10% with self-identified other-
 ability.

 2.3 Research Funding (see also section 3)
 We help secure funding for researchers throughout the career cycle, whether supporting
 doctoral researchers with their grant applications or integrating studentships into our research
 grants, or with our internal scholarship and University ‘Chancellor’s International Scholarship
 (secured by three of our PhDs). Doctoral students have secured external funding from
 governmental and international bodies, such as SeNSS (ESRC), CHASE (AHRC),
 Commonwealth, Erasmus, Wellcome Trust, the China Scholarship Council. Several have been
 funded by transnational bodies and national governments (including two Commonwealth
 Scholarships, Chinese, Thai, Indian, Indonesian, Bangladeshi, Brazilian, Kuwaiti, Sri Lankan,
 Chilean, Taiwanese, Malaysian and Taiwanese government scholarships. Each doctoral student
 is allocated two supervisors who they meet on a monthly basis providing support in their first
 year for an internally reviewed Research Outline prior to fieldwork, for fieldwork itself, and to
 comment on thesis chapters during write-up. Students record and minute meetings. We offer
 research students the opportunity to teach on our undergraduate programme, as part of their
 career development. Indeed, our Doctoral Tutorial system is central to our research strategy,
 providing doctoral students additional training, experience and income, whilst supporting faculty
 in their teaching. Teaching quality is maintained (even improved) with their evaluations on a par
 with faculty.

 Our department’s recruitment strategy is based on quality of research, expertise regarding our
 research priorities (see above) and equality. Open international recruitment has resulted in
 diversity of background, and support throughout the career cycle, accommodating family
 circumstances, background and illness, has yielded high-quality, diverse research projects and
 outputs, reflected in our REF-submission: average number of outputs: 12 Male (2,0), 15 Female
 (2,8); 14 UK born (30), 13 non-UK born (38); 4 ERAs (2,2), 10 Profs (3.4); major research
 funding has been acquired by females and males equally. Confidentiality disallows statistics for
 non-binary gender and racial/ethnicity on this.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Our research support has translated into success in bids for research funding, allowing the
 strengthening of Sussex Anthropology, and generating further growth and diversification in
 research capacity. Our total grant funding of, £3,731,769 compares with £3,934,981 over the
 previous REF period, with 8 new grants of over £100,000, two of £1 million and a further 25
 smaller grants (£10-100k). Responding to changes in the research environment, besides small
 grants, Anthropology has encouraged larger grant applications. Most derive from highly
 competitive funders, whether the ERC (2 grants), national bodies (ESRC, AHRC, ESRC-DFID,
 British Academy), and foundations (Leverhulme, the Wellcome Trust and Nuffield).

 Funding distribution covers all our research clusters and has enabled all faculty to conduct
 primary fieldwork or archival research. Concerning Economy, Ecology and Mobility, Marsden
 secured a £1.2m ERC grant and smaller BA funding on Trade Networks. Harrison was funded
 by ESRC on small-scale irrigators in Africa; Rajak by the Research Council of Norway on
 Corporate Social Responsibility; De Neve by the BA on the materiality of citizenship and by
 GCRF (ESRC) on skill and social networks in Indian labour markets; Kea and Fechter by EU
 H2020 funding on protracted displacement; Osella by UKRI-GCRF (£750k) on Equitable
 Resilience Forecasting with fishers in South India; Killick by the Academy of Medical Sciences
 and by the ESRC (£1m) on land rights and sustainable environmental use in the Peruvian

                                                                                        Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Amazon. Concerning Religion, Ethics and Morality, Osella was funded by ESRC and ESRC-
 DFID for research and impact on philanthropy. Fechter was member of the advisory group for
 the LIFT-funded project to conduct research on migration in Myanmar. Concerning Rights,
 Justice and Violence, McLean received grants and research consultancies from DfID and the
 Prevention Collaborative, including on impact evaluation of gender-based violence prevention in
 Rwanda, and empowerment of adolescent girls and young women in Kinshasa (DRC). Gilbert
 was funded by a BA Grant on experiences of environmental defenders and violence and gained
 Seed Funding (with Nottingham) for research on outsourcing development management. Cowan
 was awarded the Jane and Aatos Erkko Visiting Professorship at Helsinki Collegium for
 Advanced Studies for writing ‘Minority or Nation’. Wilson by funded by a Leverhulme fellowship
 to write Defeated Revolutionaries and the afterlife of Revolution. Concerning Gender, sexuality
 and the body, and Boyce was co-lead on a project funded by the University of Toronto-linked
 consortium to study LGBTQ inclusion in South and East Asia. Concerning Health, Technology
 and Science, Sleeboom-Faulkner secured £ 2.2 million of ESRC and ERC funding (2011-2017)
 on Bio-Networking, Wellcome Trust funding into research ethics governance for the discipline,
 and a Senior BA/Leverhulme fellowship to write her book on regulatory brokerage in the life
 sciences. Unnithan received ESRC funding for projects on son-preference and sex-selection and
 on inherited blood disorders in India, and Hunter by ESRC on transnational commercialisation of
 NHS services in China and India. Fairhead is co-I on NIHR funding with our medical school on
 Severe Stigmatising Skin Diseases.

 Many faculty also secured smaller Nuffield, Newton, Wellcome Trust, British Academy small
 grants for international travel to conduct fieldwork (De Neve, Gilbert, Boyce, Prentice, Unnithan,
 Kaur); for UK-ends of multi-sited fieldwork (Harrison; Kaur) and for fieldwork ‘at home’ in
 Brighton, London and their hinterlands (Kea, Prentice, Harrison, Schwittay, Unnithan); and for
 historical anthropology research in archives (Leopold, Fairhead, Cowan).

 Sussex University provides seed funding early in the research cycle at a variety of levels to
 support preliminary and pilot research. Fechter drew on our Research Incentive Fund managed
 by our School of Global Studies for pilot research on migrant support networks on the
 Thai/Myanmar border. The University Research Development Fund supported Killick on
 intercultural collaborations; De Neve on the materiality of citizenship in India; Fairhead on the
 medicinal use of ‘insect earths’; Killick on sustainable development in the Amazon; Kea on return
 migration to The Gambia; Osella on masculinity under neo-liberalism; Fechter and Schwittay on
 Citizen Aid and Grassroots Humanitarianism, and Schwittay on Pedagogy and Aid in Bolivia.
 Our University also funds pilot research that addresses the UN Sustainable Development
 Goals guided by the Sussex Sustainability Research Programme (SSRP) funding Gilbert on
 global commodity chains and environmental justice; Osella on marine safety in Kerala, and
 Fairhead on integrating conservation and health, and on coral conservation.
 Sussex faculty raised fund to support postdoctoral scholars and collaborators, enabling
 interdisciplinary and collaborative research beyond our department, the University and the UK
 shores, which is so visible in our collaborative publications. We support others through funding
 the 68 international and national workshops organized.

 3.1 Infrastructural support and facilities:
 The Higher Education Institution (HEI) Fund provides our infrastructural support through (i)
 research and knowledge, engagement and impact (KEI) strategies; (ii) innovative and
 interdisciplinary research and cross-departmental working; (iii) support for major collaborations;
 (iv) the University Library; (vi) the Doctoral School; (vi) a Diversity and Decolonizing strategy;
 and, (vii) Open Access. For more details, please, see the Institutional Environment Template
 (IET).

 (i)   Sussex KEI fosters a culture of ‘impact’ providing expertise and training on impact
       planning/ monitoring, communication with Parliament, evidence-tracking and funding
       through Policy@Sussex that secured funding from the ESRC Impact Acceleration
       Account (IAA) and disburses this, funded 10 anthropologists on 12 projects (e.g. funding


                                                                                         Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Boyce £24k on gender equity), totalling over £129k. It fosters impact culture through the
     Sussex Impact and Research Awards (won by anthropologists Cornwall, Fairhead).

 (ii) Interdisciplinarity is fostered within and across Schools (with Departments of International
      Development, International Relations, and Geography in our School of Global Studies; and
      with the Sussex and Brighton Medical School, SPRU and the School of Media, Arts and
      Humanities), enabling collaborative undergraduate, graduate teaching and doctoral
      supervision leading to ‘organic’ research collaborations. The University’s ‘Sussex Research’
      catalyses interdisciplinary research programmes by providing support for activities ranging
      from sandpits, through pump-priming activities and discrete pilot studies, to major
      investments in research capacity (see IET). Its Research Development Fund supports
      cross-campus interdisciplinary research centres such as those in Regional/Area studies
      including the Asia Centre (directed by Marsden), the Africa Centre and the Middle East
      Centre (co-directed by Wilson), and issue-focused research centres such as the Centre for
      Cultures, Reproduction, Technologies and Health (directed by Unnithan). It funds the £6m
      seed-corn research initiatives of the Sussex Sustainability Research Programme (SSRP)
      and the Sussex Humanities Lab (est. 2015). SSRP offers Research Development
      Funding (of £5k-50k) supporting 5 anthropologists, pump-priming over £150k of their grant
      applications. It funds early career and postdocs, e.g., Demet Dinler’s two-year Postdoc in
      anthropology and international development. Sussex Research manages research
      governance (covering ethics, safety etc.), and provides institution-wide research training
      and support throughout the research cycle, which it combines with the more bottom-up
      ‘Personal Research Planning’ that it oversees. The Global Sussex Research Initiative
      awarded 15 projects/14 staff, funding over £75k grant applications in anthropology.

 (iii) Major external research collaborations have been developed with strategic partner
       institutions whether on campus (such as the world-leading Institute of Development Studies
       on campus) or around the world. Anthropologists have strong links with IDS and together
       Sussex is now rated No 1 University QS World Ranking for the fourth year [2020]. We have
       strong collaboration with IDS anthropologists Melissa Leach, Hayley MacGregor, Linda
       Waldman, Rosalind Eyben, Alice Wilkinson, for example in the ESRC impact award-winning
       Ebola Response Anthropology Platform. Globally, the University has developed strategic
       partnerships with Cornell, Georgetown and Ghana universities. Within these,
       anthropologists have been Visiting Fellows (e.g. Eltringham and Fairhead at Cornell), co-
       convened conferences (e.g. at Cornell), built research collaborations (e.g. Unnithan with
       Legon). Fellowship applications financed through the Sussex-Ghana Fund are underway in
       both directions. Sussex anthropology attracted 25 international research fellows/professors
       working on collaborative research proposals and interdisciplinary projects.

 (iv) The University Library provides access to full and vast array of electronic library and
      associated resources, and with rapid international inter-library loans. All faculty have private
      office space. The university has developed the Attenborough Centre for Creative Arts
      performing arts space (where Kaur’s play Silent Sisters was staged). Research data
      management policies developed by the University are implemented by the Library through
      training and through Figshare, the University’s Research Data Repository.

 (v) The University Doctoral School gained recognition and funding within the ESRC-funded
     SENSS Doctoral Training Partnership and the AHRC funded CHASE partnership. SENSS
     has support 14 PhD students in anthropology and international development. In addition, 4
     PhD students have joined us with a US Federal Loan. All postdoctoral fellows and doctoral
     students have shared office space, and their own desk.

 (vi) Diversity and Equality: The University is signatory to the Concordat to Support the Career
      Development of Researchers. Consistent with University and School recruitment strategy,
      the Department is committed to equality and diversity in the workplace through the Equality,
      Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Policy, headed by Kea, and is also reflected in the
      Department’s composition of staff (see 2.5). EDI includes a LGBT Staff Forum, a Trans and

                                                                                          Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Non-Binary Staff Network, a BAME Staff Network, and a network for staff with disabilities.
       University efforts at equal opportunity, contracts, promotion, mentoring schemes etc. were
       recognised by bronze Athena Swan awards, and the commissioned major research study
       ‘the Changing University Cultures (CHUCL) Report (2018)’ illustrates its results.

 (vii) Open Access: Sussex University has had a mandate since August 2011 for its researchers
       to record publication metadata and to deposit (where possible and permitted by the
       copyright owner) the content of all peer-reviewed research and related outputs in Elements
       (formerly called Sussex Research Online (SRO)). UKRI-funded authors make available
       outputs via Gold or Green ‘Open Access’.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 We support academic and research collaborations among researchers and with the wider world
 (see ‘Collaboration’ below). We support faculty in every stage of their career cycle. We do not
 just collaborate academically with postdocs, but also by securing funding and supervision of
 over a dozen (International) Junior Research Associates ([I]JRAs) from China, India,
 Mexico, Africa, Turkey and the UK on research ranging from genetic counselling, reproduction
 and blood to the status of Chinese products, trade and local currencies in the UK. The effect of
 these collaborations is illustrated by contributions to the research base and impact
 economy and society.

 4.1 Collaboration
 Collaboration is key to our international and interdisciplinary research base, which ensures that
 our research in the fields covered by our five research foci is firmly rooted in out academic
 environment and the wider societies that we engage with.

 (i)   In our School, we collaborate with colleagues in International Development (to which many
       Sussex anthropologists also belong, including Boyce, Eltringham, Fechter, Gilbert, Harrison,
       Hunter, Kaur, Kea, Killick, Leopold, McLean, Mills, Osella, Prentice, Rajak, Schwittay,
       Unnithan, Wilson), and with those on other Departments in our school.

 (ii) Other units or institutions on campus: Fairhead with Leach in IDS and Davy in the
      Medical School; Sleeboom-Faulkner with Ely in SPRU; Unnithan with Macgregor and
      Shankland in IDS; Prentice with Trueba in the Brighton and Sussex Medical School; Osella
      with Oliver in Physics and Astronomy; Mitchell with Bull in Media Studies.

 (iii) Across the country: Sleeboom-Faulkner with Marilyn Strathern (Cambridge) and Bob
       Simpson (Durham); Hunter with Murray and Salter (KCL); Rajak with Dolan (SOAS);
       Harrison with Mdee (Leeds) and Webb (Goldsmiths); Schwittay with Cross (Edinburgh); De
       Neve with Chambers (Oxford Brookes) and Donner (Goldsmiths); Unnithan with Dubuc
       (University of Reading) and Chattoo (York University); Kaur with Keul and Strausberg
       (Bergen), Kaur with Purewal (SOAS), Kaur with Benson (Newcastle) and Robert Kiplomo
       (JKUAT, Kenya).

 (iv) Around the world: Marsden’s ERC project on transnational trade networks links the
      Sussex Asia Centre with ARI in Singapore, European University in St Petersburg, National
      Academy of Sciences in Ukraine and Eurasian National University, Astana, Kazakhstan.
      Cornwall’s Research Programme Consortium linked Co-Is from the Federal University of
      Brazil, the American University in Cairo, the University of Ghana, and BRAC University
      Bangladesh. Fairhead’s research on soils linked Co-Is from the Institute of African Studies,
      University of Ghana, and Cornell University (USA). Sleeboom-Faulkner’s research on bio-
      networking links with Co-Is from Peking Union Medical College. De Neve’s work on the
      Indian garment industry links with MIDS, Chennai. Prentice’s research on the Bangladeshi
      garment industry links with Jahangirnagar University, Dhaka. McLean researches with Lori
      Heise and Erin Stern (LSHTM) and Kristin Dunkle (MRC-SA), Alister Munthali (University of
      Malawi) and Bernard Mumpasi Lututala (University of Kinshasa) on gender-based violence
      prevention. Hunter’s healthcare systems research with Sun Yatsen University, Jawaharlal

                                                                                       Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Nehru University and SATHI, Pune. Kaur’s Heritage Network (AHRC/ICHR) research with
     Parul Dave Mukherji, JNU, Delhi and Kaur with Keul and Strausberg (Bergen). Unnithan’s
     research on rights links with IDS Jaipur, Indian NGOs, Universities of Harvard and Bergen.
     Her work on blood links with BRAC University in Bangladesh and University of Cape Coast
     and Legon in Ghana. Cowan’s research on UN human rights monitoring links with Billaud
     (IHEID Geneva); and, Harrison’s work on small-scale irrigation with collaborators in
     Tanzania, Malawi and Bangladesh. Kea and Fechter's research on transnational figurations
     of displacement links with Bonn International Centre for Conversion, and other research
     institutes in Europe, Asia and Africa.

 4.2 Contribution to the research base
 Sussex anthropologists have contributed to the wider discipline appropriate to their career stage
 by encouraging functions and activities appropriate to their career stage. Post-doc Heitmeyer, for
 example, edited ‘Studies in Ethnicity and Nationalism’. Senior Lecturer Boyce is co-founder of
 the book series ‘Theorising Ethnography: Concept, Context, Critique’ (Routledge) and has a new
 Routledge Series with Rohit Dasgupta (Loughborough) and Niharika Banerjea (Ambedekar) on
 ‘Ethnographic Innovations, South Asian Perspectives’, also editors of the first book, entitled
 ‘COVID-19 Assemblages: Queer and Feminist Ethnographies from South Asia’. Killick joined the
 RAI Publications Committee and Kaur the Royal Anthropological Institute Film Committee, and
 the HAU editorial collective. Mitchell is on the editorial boards of JRAI, Journal of Mediterranean
 Studies, Ethnográfica (Lisbon), and Anthropological Journal of European Cultures; Prentice on
 that of Bengali-English Anthropology Journal; DeNeve on Research in Economic Anthropology;
 Wilson on Contemporary Levant and on L’Ouest Saharien; Kea on Journal of Cultural Analysis
 and Social Change; Schwittay on NGOgraphies Series (Alabama); Marsden on Modern Asian
 Studies and International Quarterly for Asian Studies; Sleeboom-Faulkner on Biosocieties; Kaur
 on Media, Culture and Communication in Migrant Societies and Ethnic and Racial Studies (until
 2016). De Neve is Co-Editor of the Journal of South Asian Development, Sleeboom-Faulkner is
 Associate Editor of East Asian Science and Technology Studies (EASTS), and Kaur of Journal
 of South Asian Studies and Identities: Global Studies in Culture and Power (until 2018). Marsden
 is International Advisory Board Member of Central Asian Survey, and Vice President of the
 Scholarly Association for International Studies of Afghanistan. Unnithan is member of the RAI
 Council and on the panel for the Wellcome Trust award. Cowan served on the Scientific
 Committee of the Swiss Network for International Studies 2013-2017 and the International
 Advisory Board for large projects led by Sarah Green (Helsinki) and by Kaius Tuori (Academy of
 Finland). Harrison is Chair of the IDS Bulletin Advisory Panel (2015 – present) and a member of
 the RAI Committee on Policy and Practice, and a reviewer for the Commonwealth Scholarships
 Committee. Most faculty are members of the ESRC Peer Review College, and review for
 international funders and universities, such as Austrian government research grants (Rajak),
 Helsinki and National Taiwan Universities (Sleeboom-Faulkner).

 Our department also occupy senior roles positions: Unnithan is Chair of the Medical
 Anthropology Committee of the Royal Anthropological Institute; From 2011-2014 Cowan
 represents anthropology on the Sectoral Committee on the Social Sciences, Greek National
 Council on Research and Technology; Kaur was elected Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts in
 2019 for her work as scriptwriter and director in theatre, art and media, and in 2020, was invited
 to the Royal Anniversary Trust to join the National Readers Panel; Fairhead was elected Fellow
 of the British Academy, was lead author of ESRC International Development Strategy (2014),
 vice-Chair on the ESRC/NERC/DfiD Ecosystem Services and Poverty Alleviation Programme
 funding panel (2016) and is appointed to the REF Panel for Anthropology; Mitchell chaired the
 Social Anthropology panel of the Norwegian equivalent of the REF; Cowan is elected President-
 Elect, AAA Society for the Anthropology of Europe in May 2020 (until 2024).

 Concerning prizes, Ibanez-Tirado was awarded the Irene Hilgers Memorial prize for best article
 in the Central Asian Survey (2016), Fairhead was co-recipient of the ESRC International Impact
 Prize (2016), Prentice received the AAA Society for the Anthropology of the Work prize for
 ‘Thieving a Chance’, 2015, Kea contributed to the book ‘Affective Circuits’, winner of the Council
 on the Anthropology of Reproduction Book Prize, SMA (AAA), 2018, Wilson received honourable

                                                                                       Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mention in the 2016 book award of the Middle East section of the AAA, and Boyce the Ruth
 Benedict Prize for Outstanding Edited Volume on ‘Queering Knowledge’.

 Members of the departments were invited to share their expertise internationally: Eltringham
 and Fairhead became Visiting Fellows at the Department of Development Sociology (Cornell
 University, 2017); Rajak Visiting Professor at the University of Vienna (May 2019), Sleeboom-
 Faulkner Visiting Professor at the Department of Anthropology at EHESS (April-May 2017),
 Cowan Erkko Visiting Professor in Studies on Contemporary Society (2018-19), and Osella
 Connaught visiting fellow at the University of Toronto (2019). Unnithan served on the WHO Safe
 abortion guidelines meeting, Geneva 2018; Boyce was visiting scholar at the department of
 Gender Studies at University of Helsinki for periods in 2017 and 2018; and, Schwittay was a
 Lead Author on the International Panel of Social Progress (2016-18).

 Sussex has taken a particular lead in deliberating research ethics in the discipline. Kaur
 chaired World Council of Anthropological Associations Ethics Taskforce (2012-2016), and
 Sleeboom-Faulkner, together with Bob Simpson (Durham), organized a series of conferences in
 Sussex and Durham that led to the Ethical Navigator (EthNav) which gives background on ethics
 review to ECRs. Sleeboom-Faulkner drafted guidelines on Data Management used by ASA and
 BSA and published with McMurray (Sussex) on the GDPR in anthropology in Society Today.
 With Pels (Leiden) and Dilger (Berlin) she formulated EASA's Statement on Data Governance in
 Ethnographic Projects.

 4.3 Contribution to economy and society
 Due to our commitment to an engaging anthropology and our research that intersects with
 international development, whether through grants and in individual research, we develop
 collaborative links with organisations beyond HEIs. Our contribution to economy and society
 therefore emerges in collaboration with users throughout the research process.

 First, to embed users throughout the research process we build sustainable relationships
 with users. Some core examples are: Sleeboom-Faulkner’s ‘bionetworking’ linked biological
 scientists, policy makers, ethicists and social science researchers in research and policy
 activities. Marsden has contextualized his research within both Afghan diaspora and the Afghan
 government, enabling him to discern mutually supportive policies both within Afghanistan and
 beyond. Osella’s research engaged with artisan fishers in Kerala to produce and enable life-
 saving insights on the weather-forecast. De Neve’s and Prentice’s research on the South Asian
 garment industry engage with UK and European industry policy-makers and NGO’s to
 understand and influence how corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives affect labour
 conditions in the textile industry. Prentice’s report on compensation regimes open to garment
 workers exemplifies this, being commissioned by C&A Foundation, and thus speaking to the
 industry as well as to UK and EU Parliaments. Rajak’s ethnography of CSR, by engaging with its
 ‘benefactors’, NGOs and activists, shows how development paved with good intentions can lead
 to webs of structural dependence. Killick’s collaboration with development practitioners, activists
 and indigenous people through stakeholder workshops in Peru literally gives a voice to local
 peoples, such as the Asheninka. Their language, as a result of this engagement, has recently
 been recognized as Peru’s 48th official language. Our networks usually involve long-term
 relationships. Both De Neve and Boyce have developed networks with civil society
 organizations in India over several research cycles. The impact of Fairhead’s work on Ebola
 derives from 25 years of research collaborations in the Republic of Guinea.

 We often partner with ‘users’ in our research. Research in health arenas especially is most
 effective in collaborative research with health organisations. Boyce’ research on rights and
 sexuality has flourished in collaboration with the Indian National AIDS Control Organisation,
 UNDP and SSHRF working group on LGBT rights in South and Southeast Asia. Unnithan
 partnered with the National Rural Health Mission (Govt. of Rajasthan) in her research on rights-
 based approaches to maternal health. Hunter collaborated and co-authored with Oxfam on
 private healthcare investments, and with SATHI, Pune, on healthcare systems in India. In other
 forms of partnership, our informants double as users in more ‘action research’ modes of enquiry,

                                                                                       Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as in Sleeboom-Faulker’s work that supports the ethical deliberations of the stem cell scientists
 and users in Asia, who are themselves the subject of research. A characteristic of our work is to
 treat research ‘users’ as part of the social worlds we study.

 Second, we have changed terms of debate. Our collaborative approach enables us to
 address questions of central importance to users in which anthropological research and
 theorisation can reframe the way problems are understood and practices envisaged,
 ensuring wide reach as well as significance. This approach has enabled us to reframe the terms
 of debate in international development policy across all our research themes. Our work in ‘Ethics
 and morality’ addresses how Corporate Social Responsibility and fair trade are framed and
 delivered (Rajak, De Neve, Luetchford). Our research in ‘Health, Technology and Science’ and
 ‘Gender, Sexuality and the Body’ has reframed how rights-based approaches to reproductive
 health are envisaged (Unnithan) and how policymakers conceptualise sexualities in HIV policy
 delivery in West Bengal (Boyce). Our pioneering ethnographic research on rights has led the
 policy world to appreciate their local meanings (e.g. Cowan, Eltringham and McLean on rights,
 ethnicity and reconciliation). This has helped transform organisational practices. Cowan’s work
 on ‘Culture and Rights’ has now shaped a new generation of human rights practitioners after its
 adoption by International Human Rights Policy (New York) in their training of practitioners, while
 Cowan & Billaud’s ethnographic research on the Universal Periodic Review at the Human Rights
 Council in Geneva is used by UN Diplomats. Our sustained work on Gender, sexuality and the
 body has shaped the way gender inequalities are conceived of and addressed, and in how
 participation is conceived of and practiced (Boyce, Mills, Cornwall). Our work in ‘Economy,
 Ecology and mobility’ has reframed how environments are problematized and anthropogenic
 landscapes envisaged as in Fairhead’s work on soils.

 Third, we foster public understanding through cultural practices. Our approach to impact
 extends, when appropriate, to addressing the wider public as ‘users’. For example, Kaur has
 written seven plays to engage the needs and interests of diverse disadvantaged and ethnic
 communities in collaboration with London-based theatre groups, Mukul and Ghetto Tigers, and
 established international RAFTA (Rise Against Fanaticism Through the Arts) Award in 2018.
 Eltringham contributes to opera taking place in Virtual Reality to address conflict and human
 rights. Kaur and Unnithan use film to reach out to the public. The latter travelled across the
 country to create debate on family-making and gender equality with people of Bangladeshi,
 Indian and Pakistani origin. Gilbert, Kea, Wilson, and Sleeboom-Faulkner use topical film
 screenings to engender debate, ranging from migrant crisis, resistance in Western Sahara to
 stem cell tourism. Mitchell’s report on sport culture fed into the advertising campaign for
 Lucozade Sport to discuss Sports Culture in UK. Sleeboom-Faulkner’s findings provoked
 discussions at science conferences on regenerative medicine and genome-editing. Prentice and
 Rajak’s ‘Culture and Capitalism’ blog feeds debate among thousands.

 Fourth, we engage in consultancy (including commissioned reports, expert advice,
 evidence to government committees) taking our research insights to the heart of user
 organisations. For example, McLean advised on gender-based violence prevention and
 empowerment of women and girls for many organisations (see case study). Boyce co-wrote
 guidelines for UNDP HIV prevention work in Africa. Schwittay worked with RedR on improving
 the impact of humanitarian training practices. Kaur wrote a reading pack on Identity for
 development practitioners with DfID. Many of us provide expert witness testimony in asylum
 cases.

 Fifth, we intervene with timely, proactive or responsive communications. Our research
 communications include advocacy, lobbying and critique in the form of policy briefings (e.g. our
 ‘Global Insights’ by De Neve and Fechter); blogs (e.g. Cornwall’s in The Guardian and Open
 Democracy; Prentice and Rajak’s Culture and Capitalism); research project websites; websites
 of Centres; TV documentaries and popular journalism. Fairhead and colleagues developed the
 Ebola Response Anthropology Platform and he and others have made multi-media interventions
 with the global challenges, such as Covid-19: Fairhead on the wisdom of lock-down in Africa,
 Hunter on international healthcare, Boyce warning against LGBTQ hostility, Killick engaged in

                                                                                      Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 information sharing, case-reporting and equality (securing seed funding for a project on
 education activities in the Amazon). Unnithan drew attention to reproductive health, de Neve
 addresses lockdown hardship and textile livelihoods under threat in Tamil Nadu.

 The Table below summarises the areas in which our collaborations with institutions and
 organisations beyond higher education contribute to economy and society:

  Who          With whom                        What                                      When
  Boyce        Transgender activist             National consultation workshops on        2016-
               organisations and corporate      LGBTQIA Workplace Inclusion in
               sector                           India’
               Advisor steering group           UN Fast Track City strategy for HIV       2018–
               Brighton                         prevention
  Cowan        Greek Ministry of Education      Advising on reforms to Higher             2011-
                                                Education                                 2014
               Swiss Network for                Member of Scientific Committee            2013-
               International Studies (SNIS)                                               2017
  De Neve      Ethical Trading Initiative,      Labour rights, unfree labour and          Ongoing
               London                           Dalit rights in India
               ICN, Netherlands
               Dalit Solidarity Network, UK
  Eltringham   Arts Council & V&A               Opera against conflict                    2018
               UN Secretary General Special     Trainer genocide prevention AU            2018
               Advisor Prevention Genocide      and African Commission Human
                                                and People’s Rights
  Fairhead     DfID UK SAGE social science      Support to DfID, MoD, in                  2014-15
               sub-committee on Ebola           humanitarian response Ebola
  Fechter      Embracability –NGO in            UG/PG teaching                            2018-
               Cambodia                         Development/NGOs
  Gilbert      Resource Governance Index        Natural Resource Governance               2017
                                                Institute: First iteration of index to
                                                include Bangladesh
               Discussant on financialisation    The People Behind the Financial          Ongoing
                                                System’
                                                * Bank of England (d. Derek
                                                Williams, 1960)
                                                * Inside the Bank of England (d.
                                                Philip Geddes, 1988)
  Harrison     NGOS, international donors,      Advice on small-scale irrigation          Malawi
               e.g. CISANET, World Bank,        policy                                    2014-16
               DFID, NASFAM,
               Parliamentary committee
               agriculture
  Hunter       Oxfam                            Advisor on healthcare systems             Ongoing
                                                research
  Kaur         Disadvantaged minorities         Theatre writing/film: Fun Fear,           Ongoing
               (women, deprived, racial/        Silent Sisters, Mishti Gals, Silent
               ethnic minorities etc)           Sisters-Brothers Unhinged, Rabia:
                                                Songs of Stray Birds, Lalon: Heart
                                                of Madness, Kama Sci Fi, and
                                                Bodies
               Arts exhibition Crawley Tree     Migrations, My Stories, My Homes          2018
               Museum
               Mukul and Ghetto Tigers          Theatre (Arts & Education)                2019
               Theatre Company, Arts
               Council England etc.

                                                                                         Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Who         With whom                        What                                 When
  Kaur        Tower Hamlets Council            Season of Bangla Drama –             2019
  (cont’d)                                     culturally diverse arts
  Kea         The Asylum research Centre,      Consultancy, expert reports The      2015 -
              The Fahamu Refugee/ Rights       Gambia
              in Exile Programme
              Dukes Komedia, Brighton          Post-screening panel discussant      2019
                                               ‘Styx’
              Tunisian Pavilion, 57th Venice   Visual images to online migration    2017
              Biennale 2017                    platform ‘Absence of Paths’
              Brighton Museum                  Discussant ‘The Transmission and     2016
                                               Translation of African Fashion
                                               Identities’
  Killick     Research institutions,           Awareness films local people;        2017 -
              government ministries,           translating books by indigenous
              indigenous/local people,         people
              Amazonian School of Cinema
              Development practitioners,       Recognition Asheninka language       2019
              activists and indigenous         as Peru’s 48th official language
              people
  Marsden     Chief Academic Advisor,          Creating awareness constructive      Ongoing
              Afghanistan Institute of         roles Afghan traders
              Strategic Studies.
              Eurasian Council of Foreign      Creating awareness constructive      2018
              Affairs invited contributor -    roles Afghan traders
              report
              Advisor to Minister of           Documents and policies on traders    Ongoing
              Economy, Afghanistan
              Co-organiser Photo exhibition    Creating awareness about             2018/19
              by Moska Najib and Nazes         belonging and community
              Afroz, Copenhagen
              Advisor                          Action for Development, Geneva       Ongoing

  Mills       APPG                             Research mobile apps for rape        2016 -
                                               survivors                            2017
              APPG                             Advisor APPG on sexuality,           2013 -
                                               poverty, legal marginalisation       2016
              DfID on LGBTQI+                  Advisor to DfID/ Baronness           2013 -
              marginalisation                  Northover                            2016
              UN, USAID and Worldbankj         Panelist, advisor on funding         2015
                                               advance global LGBTQI+
              Commonwealth Leaders             Advisor on law, gender and           2014
                                               sexuality (confidential)
              Sustainable Livelihoods          Research collaboration on sexual     2014 -
              Foundation, Sonke Gender         violence                             2015
              Justice, South Africa
              Men's Association for Gender     Research collaboration on sexual     2014 -
              Equality-Sierra Leone            violence                             2015
              DFID                             Member Core Management Team,         2014-
                                               ‘What Works to Prevent Violence      2017
                                               Against Women and Girls’
              Prevention Collaborative         Knowledge Manager                    Ongoing
              Womankind                        3-country study community-based      2014
                                               GBV prevention



                                                                                   Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Who         With whom                         What                                   When
  Mitchell    Country Expert for Malta,         Advising centralising resources        2015 -
              International Refugee Rights      legal aid
              Initiative
  Osella      Radio Monsoon, Fishers,           Helps make fishing safe &              Ongoing
              State Disaster Management         sustainable
              Authority (SDMA) Kerala;
              Indian National Centre for
              Ocean Information Services
  Petty       Sarah Bell, University of         Producing guidelines to create         2018
              Exeter Medical School; British    walking opportunities for walkers
              Blind Sport; people with          with impaired vision
              impaired vision
              Woodland Trust                    Creating awareness of experiences      Ongoing
              South Downs National Park         of visually impaired
  Prentice    Consultancy/engagement UK         Workers’ rights compensation after     Ongoing
              and European Parliaments,         garment factory disasters
              C&A Foundation, Ethical
              Trading Initiative and ILO
              Talks to European Parliament      Used by UN Business and Human          Ongoing
              on commissioned report            Rights Forum, the Ethical Trading
              Workers’ Right to                 Initiative, and Sedex, etc
              Compensation
  Rajak       Action Aid, International Trade   Engaging policy makers on trade        Ongoing
              Union Congress and                policy/ creation decent work in
              European Trade Union              developing world
              Congress
  Schwittay   RedR, a Humanitarian              Report Training and Capacity           2016
              Training Provider (London)        Building in the Humanitarian Sector
              Influential International Panel   Markets, Corporations, Finance:        2018
              for Social Progress (IPSP)        Does Capitalism have a Future?’
  Sleeboom-   International Patient Orgs for    Awareness patient needs in LMIC        2015 –
  Faulkner    Spinal Cord Injury and            and wealth countries
              Muscular Dystrophy
              ISSCR, Universities and           Discussions with scientists on         2016 –
              clinics in Asia                   meaning safe and efficacious
                                                therapy
              Academies of Sciences from        Global debate on genome editing,       2018
              Hong Kong, America, Britain,      Hong Kong
              China etc.                        Session 2
              World Science Forum,              Debate What Humans Will Be after       2019
              Budapest                          Genome Editing
              Social scientists, professional   Help make adequate guidelines          2015 –
              organisations, funders            research ethics and data
                                                management
  Unnithan    APPG on Sexual and                evidence on inequalities access        2019 –
              Reproductive Healthcare           contraception
              (APPG SRH) AGM
              APPG SRH                          Awareness prenatal sex-selective       2017 -
                                                abortion British-Asians in UK
              People of Bangladeshi, Indian     Video Son Preference                   2019 -
              and Pakistani origin.
              APPG                              Submission on COVID-19 and             2020
                                                gender, and on Contraception
              UNFPA                             Co- launch UNFPA State of the          2020
                                                World Population Report 2020

                                                                                      Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



Workshops and conferences held by Sussex Anthropology (2014 – July 2020) -
http://bit.ly/WorksandConfs2014-2020




                                                                             Page 17
