Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: Swansea University

 Unit of Assessment: 03 Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

1. Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategy
1.1. Unit Context and Structure
 Swansea University Medical School (SUMS) trains tomorrow’s biomedical scientists, pharmacists,
 physician associates and doctors in a supportive and inclusive research environment. This
 environment gives our researchers freedom to undertake interdisciplinary and collaborative
 research, develop innovative approaches to health-related problems, and expand the knowledge
 economy.
 SUMS was established in 2004 as a strategic initiative of the Welsh Government and Swansea
 University, building on the 2001 Clinical School. Since then, we have grown rapidly: within this
 REF period our research spend has totalled £94m, up 130% from REF2014 and 320% from
 RAE2008; and research doctorates awarded have totalled 162.5, up 169% from REF2014 and
 300% from RAE2008.
 Teaching and learning are integrated with our research. In addition to our medicine, genetics,
 and biochemistry programmes, in this REF period we have launched pharmacy, applied medical
 sciences, physician associate, medical pharmacology, and population health degrees, each
 reflecting continued research area expansion.
 Research is housed in the Institute of Life Science (ILS), a collection of buildings on the
 Singleton campus. More than £100 million has been invested in the ILS research environment
 through the European Funding Office for the ILS1 Building in 2008 and the ILS2 Building in
 2012. In the current REF period, we delivered the third stage, the Data Science ILS3 Building
 (2015, £8m). Together, these buildings provide more than 12,000m2 of interdisciplinary facilities
 to support our four core strategic Research Themes focusing on fundamental biomedical science
 and translational medicine: Biomarkers and Genes, Medical Technologies, Microbes and
 Immunity, and Patient and Population Health & Informatics (PPHI). Researchers are members
 of a specific theme but are usually active across themes and can achieve this by accessing any
 of our five core infrastructure facilities: the Secure Anonymised Information Linkage (SAIL)
 Databank (previously ‘e-health and informatics’), the Centre for NanoHealth (CNH), Biomedical
 Laboratories, Clinical Research Facilities (CRF, trials, imaging and patient research), and
 Commercial Incubators.




                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Within our themes, we have flagship interdisciplinary centres: the British Heart Foundation
 Cymru Research Centre, the Biorefining Centre of Excellence (BEACON), the Celtic
 Advanced Life Science Innovation Network (CALIN), the Accelerate Healthcare Technology
 Centre (HTC), and the extensive Data Science centres (including the SAIL Databank, Farr
 Institute for Health Informatics, Administrative Data Research UK, Health Data Research UK, and
 the UK Secure eResearch Platform (UKSeRP).
 The ILS buildings open directly into one of the major hospitals in the Swansea Bay University
 Health Board, ensuring strong NHS links. All ILS buildings have incubation space for product and
 technology development. Hence, the NHS and commercial enterprises are co-located within the
 ILS, which continues to mature and build on the early success evidenced in previous
 assessments.
1.2. Research Objectives
 1.2.1. Research Strategy
 Each theme is led by a senior academic who reports to a Research Committee, which is focused
 on delivering the research strategy, and in turn reports to a Senior Leadership Team, which has
 responsibility for research, internationalisation, commercialisation, and research-led teaching.
 Longer-term strategy is informed by an external advisory group, chaired by Professor Julian
 Hopkin CBE, who was appointed School Rector in 2017. Following REF2014, a five-year strategy
 was published in 2015, and this was reviewed, updated and published in 2020, with a consolidated
 focus on the four themes.
 1.2.2. Review of REF2014 Projections
 All key objectives specified in the REF2014 submission were achieved:
Objective 1 Deliver impactful research across all four themes: At least one impact case study (ICS)
from each theme has been submitted to REF2021.

Objective 2 Expand e-Health and SAIL capacity: CIPHER (2013-16); the Farr Institute (2015); the
ESRC Administrative Data Research Centre (2014-2018), ADR Wales (2018); and a founding
centre for Health Data Research UK. In 2015, we built the Data Science Building (projected as
‘ILS3’ in REF2014). These actions fulfilled our promise to help lead “a revolution in our ability to
answer a host of questions that were previously intractable” (Professor Paul Boyle, Chief Executive
of the ESRC, Oct 2013).

Objective 3 Seek Horizon 2020 funding: SUMS-led H2020 projects including PATROLS (€12.7m,
2018) successfully awarded.

Objective 4 Target EU Convergence Funding: SMART Expertise (£1.2m, 2017) collaboration on
therapeutic exosomes; two Sêr Cymru capacity building awards; the Swansea-based Digital
Health Care Technology Centre, part of the All-Wales £24m Accelerate HTC (2018); and the
CALIN Interreg EU project (£10.7m, 2016).

Objective 5 Build stronger links with the College of Science: The University’s Science and
Innovation Bay Campus was delivered in 2015. We have strengthened long-standing links in
nanotechnology with the Colleges of Science and Engineering. Exemplar new partnerships with
the Bay Campus include BHF Centre, rheology, data science and UKRI-supported COVID-19
modelling with mathematics at the £33m Computational Foundry.

Objective 6 Expand our footprint in developing programmes in bio-entrepreneurship, innovation
and health informatics: As well as ILS3 (Data Science) further ILS expansion (‘ILS4’) is continuing
as scheduled in sync with the early stages of A Regional Collaboration for Health (ARCH), a
partnership with Swansea Bay and Hywel Dda University Health Boards established to improve
the health, wealth and wellbeing of the Welsh population.




                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2.3. Current research strategy
 Our current research strategy aims to:
 1. Develop staff, particularly early career researchers (ECRs), to enable them to excel
 2. Secure research income from diverse, private, public, and third-sector sponsors
 3. Build critical mass, ensuring sustainability for key research areas
 4. Foster interdisciplinary research activity
 Successful progress towards these objectives is outlined below:
 1. Develop staff, particularly early career researchers (ECRs), to enable them to excel
 Two ECRs identified in REF2014 have progressed to Professor level. Professor Shareen Doak
 leads on the multi-million-pound Horizon 2020 project (PATROLS), directs the interdisciplinary
 CNH and has authored the Global Nanosafety impact case study (ICS1). Professor Yuqin Wang,
 now theme lead for Microbes and Immunity, is the recipient of BBSRC funding, and co-authored
 the sterol analysis impact case study (ICS4).
 2. Secure research income from diverse, private, public, and third-sector sponsors
 Exemplar achievements within each theme, during the current REF period, include:
 In Biomarkers and Genes, the British Heart Foundation Sir Thomas Lewis Chair of
 Cardiovascular Science received £2.3m in funding for a research group focussed on molecular
 cardiology. A programme of mass spectrometric analysis of lipids and proteins was supported by
 UKRI for more than £2m.
 Building on long established Swansea strengths in genetic toxicology and nanomedicine,
 researchers in Medical Technologies launched the Horizon 2020-funded PATROLS in 2018.
 PATROLS is a €12.7m global project to address the need for safer and more effective
 nanomaterial testing. SUMS heads a remarkable 24-institution partnership across 13 countries,
 from Europe to the USA and Asia.
 In Microbes and Immunity, the BEACON Biorefining Centre of Excellence was renewed.
 BEACON is a £12m partnership between Swansea, Aberystwyth and Bangor Universities, working
 on biomass and biowaste conversion into biofuels, bioplastics and platform chemicals while
 building strong links with the business community. The project reflects commitment to the green
 agenda (Swansea University consistently ranks within the top 10 Green League UK Institutions).
 In PPHI, an exemplar of our strategy and investment success is the evolution of health informatics
 from pioneering work of the Health Informatics Research Unit in (2006) establishing the SAIL
 Databank, to the MRC’s Centre for Improving Population Health through E-Health Research
 (CIPHER; 2013-2016); the Farr Institute (2015, £9m); the ESRC Administrative Data Research
 Centre (£8m, 2014-2018), continued as ADR Wales (2018, £4.3m); and a founding centre for
 Health Data Research UK (£4.5m with funding from the MRC, EPSRC, ESRC, NIHR). For
 simplicity in this narrative, we collect these many activities under the broad banner of ‘SAIL’, the
 technical facility at the heart of these developments.
 3. Build critical mass, ensuring sustainability for key research areas
 A number of strategic appointments were made within this REF period. In 2014, Professor
 Humphrey, Professor of Bacteriology and Food Safety, with a strong BBSRC track record, was
 appointed to strengthen and expand microbiology within Microbes & Immunity. In 2015, Dr Clift, an
 ECR with established links in Switzerland and the wider nanotoxicology community, was
 appointed to the Medical Technologies theme. In 2015, Professor Fegan was appointed as
 Director of Swansea Trials Unit. A statistician involved in global health research, he oversaw the
 registration of the unit, ensuring ongoing capabilities within PPHI. In 2017, Biomarkers and Genes
 became the host theme for Wales’ British Heart Foundation (BHF) group, bringing with it the
 expertise of Professor George (Molecular Cardiology), thereby expanding SUMS’ research
 portfolio.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Foster interdisciplinary research activity
 Sustainability in interdisciplinary research can be evidenced by the following theme exemplars
 (chosen here in addition to interdisciplinary projects already mentioned above):
    Biomarkers and Genes: With funding from the Swansea-Grenoble strategic collaboration,
     researchers in the CNH are investigating the therapeutic potential of selenium in ovarian
     cancer. The interdisciplinary team of geoscientists, engineers, physicists and cell
     biologists formulate nanoparticles and monitor epigenetic modifications.
    Medical Technologies: The rheology programme based in the CNH (EPSRC funded) brings
     together biomedicine, physics, engineering and clinical researchers for scientific and
     commercial outputs.
    Microbes and Immunity: Professor Paul Dyson’s BBSRC funded work (in the Biomedical
     Laboratories facility) combines entomology with genomic techniques to develop biocide
     alternatives to pesticides.
    PPHI: through HDRUK and ADRN computer scientists, clinicians and linguists are
     developing innovative natural language processing (NLP) tools to extract and link with the
     SAIL Databank. SAIL enables interdisciplinary outputs in cardiovascular, pharmaceutical, and
     genetic studies.
 Our major new interdisciplinary partnership is A Regional Collaboration for Health (ARCH), a
 partnership with Swansea Bay and Hywel Dda University Health Boards established to improve
 the health, wealth and wellbeing of the Welsh population. ARCH is a key strand of the £1.3 billion
 City Deal for the Swansea Bay region. The aim is to ensure that a diverse, inclusive and rewarding
 culture is built among researchers, NHS, innovators, educators and their institutions. This culture
 is essential to meet the challenges of modern healthcare in a low-income region with high health
 burden and inequality. Our contribution to ARCH is focused on big data, clinical trials and
 biomedical research. The Colleges of Science and Engineering at Swansea University are
 partners, and Phase 1 of the development has invested in new buildings and staff at Morriston
 (Science Park) and Singleton (Digital Health Care Technology Centre) hospitals.
 Further evidence for commitment to interdisciplinary research is provided by significant
 partnerships in three additional Swansea University impact case studies: Mitigation of the severe
 impact of COVID-19 on medical provision, hospitalisations and deaths in Wales through
 mathematical modelling (with Mathematics, UoA 10); Paying for Plagiarism: Tackling Contract
 Cheating, Ghost-Writers and Essay Mills in Higher Education (with Social Work and Social Policy,
 UoA 21); and Translation of Technology into Healthcare via University Spin-out CanSense Ltd,
 Raman Spectroscopy for Colorectal Cancer (with Physics, UoA 9). Such cross-University
 collaboration is bolstered by interdisciplinary co-supervision of PhD students with Engineering
 (10), Management (5), Human and Health Sciences (4), Science (6) and Law (1).
 1.2.4. Future Research Strategy
 Our current strategy runs until 2025, with an interim review in 2022, informed by REF2021 and
 the new University faculty re-organisation. There will be opportunities from our new programmes
 in pharmacy, in alignment with UKRI, UK Government, and European priorities. We aim to:
 1. Develop new funder relationships to diversify our funding portfolio and prevent over-
    reliance on a single source
 2. Maximise interdisciplinary research opportunities across the University through
    engagement with the Morgan Advanced Studies Institute (https://www.swansea.ac.uk/masi/)
 3. Develop a sustainable pipeline of talent by supporting Early Career Researchers (ECRs) to
    flourish
 4. Focus research activity on key global health issues building critical mass to tackle these
    challenges
 Future strategy will also capitalise on opportunities generated by the University faculty structure,
 to be introduced in 2021, which will bring closer links with the current College of Human and Health

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sciences and the Department of Psychology. Over the next five years, we will continue to invest
 in established areas of excellence. We will align our strategy to UK and International funder
 priorities and will promote our expertise on the international stage, an approach that has attracted
 prestigious research funding. We will attract and retain world-class academic staff at the forefront
 of their disciplines.
1.3. Impact Strategy
 Our strategy is based on early identification and investment in promising projects, adding depth
 to promising activities, while acknowledging that success may take considerable time. SUMS’
 investment in impact activity has included seedcorn funding, website development, dissemination
 materials (videos and animations) and international networking (travel and conference attendance
 to engage with beneficiaries).
 We maintain an idea register and have monitored the progress of > 30 initiatives, from which five
 of our strongest case studies were selected. Three of our five impact case studies (ICS) were
 highlighted specifically in a prospective portfolio for impact reported in our REF2014 impact
 statement. By focusing on pathways to impact in this manner, we have been able to strategically
 target investment in these case studies, evidenced as follows:
       ICS1: our case study on Global Nanosafety builds on many years of strategic investment
        in genetic toxicology at Swansea and was specifically supported by appointing a new
        senior lecturer in 2015 (in addition to considerable external funding success, e.g.,
        PATROLS).
       ICS2: the Azole Antifungals case study came to fruition after long-term investment in
        three professorial positions, backed over this period by a full-time appointment of a
        research assistant, and BEACON funding.
       ICS3: the PRISMATIC trial benefited from the priority investment in the SAIL Databank,
        the academic appointments of an associate professor in health service research and a
        professor in Statistics, and funding awarded through NIHR.
    ICS1-3 were highlighted as prospective case studies in our REF2014 impact strategy
    submission.
       ICS4: on the use of a Novel Sterol Analysis for the diagnosis and treatment monitoring
        of inborn errors of metabolism was supported by strategic refurbishment of a mass
        spectrometry laboratory in ILS1, the securing of BBSRC and Sêr Cymru awards, the
        appointment of technical support, and IP licensing assistance.
       ICS5: on Suicide and Self-Harm Prevention, resulted from the 2017 appointment of a
        new chair in public health and psychiatry and benefited greatly from the SAIL Databank
        facility along with MRC and charitable investments.
 Continued impact is overseen by a dedicated SUMS Impact Officer (appointed 2015), and an
 Impact & Engagement Officer from the University’s life science research support hub. Starting at
 the undergraduate student level, student projects have been designed to understand pathways
 to, and the development and presentation of, impact using the REF2014 database. Embedding
 an understanding of impact at all levels of staff and students is achieved through seminars, staff
 forums and individual support, embedding the University’s founding ethos of research as a means
 to serve society.
 Our current prospective impact portfolio includes the following: targeting tumours with bacteria,
 tissue engineering using 3D bioprinting, the UKSeRP at the SAIL Databank and patient-reported
 outcome measures in health research (PROMS).
1.4. Research Integrity
 1.4.1. Research Ethics
 Support for a strong research governance environment begins at our unit-level SUMS Ethics and
 Integrity Committee. This committee was launched (2017) to meet a growing need for
 specialised support, in particular in biomedical sciences and health data linkage, to support

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 expansion in research student projects and numbers of professional practice projects. The
 committee chair coordinates online integrity training for all staff, represents SUMS at the University
 Institute of Ethics and Law, delivers termly seminars on integrity, and lectures on research ethics
 and integrity to all research students on induction. The committee reports to the SUMS Research
 Committee and the wider University Research Ethics and Governance Committee.
 SUMS researchers also have close links with NHS Wales Research Ethics Committees 6 and 3
 (in particular through the Clinical Research Facilities), contributing long-standing committee
 members and regular review expertise. A SUMS emeritus professor is chair of the Swansea Bay
 Health Board Joint Study Review Committee. A research licence from the Human Tissue Authority
 was awarded in 2016, and we have an Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Process. All staff and
 PGR students involved with patient-facing research receive training in good clinical practice
 delivered by HCRW/NIHR to ensure the safeguarding of patients, data, and adverse event
 recording.
 As part of UKSeRP, SAIL holds ISO 27001 Information Security Management System (ISMS) and
 DEA accreditation under the UK STATS Authority, which is externally certified by independent
 industry assessors, demonstrating SAIL’s commitment to legal, physical and technical controls to
 secure data throughout its lifetime. Additional ethical control and advice on all proposed SAIL
 projects are provided during a mandatory (internal and external) Information Governance Review
 Panel application process.
 1.4.2. Open Access/ Open Scholarship
 All SUMS papers are deposited in the University-maintained CRONFA open-access repository,
 making them discoverable, free to read, downloadable, and searchable by anyone with an internet
 connection. For open data that can be publicly archived, we make regular contributions to the
 Zenodo data repository maintained by CERN, GenBank databases at PubMed, NCBI, EBI,
 European Nucleotide Archive, Dryad, and Protein Data Bank. Some major projects have bespoke
 open data directories; for example, PATROLS complies with the H2020 open access to research
 data scheme, with all data available through the European Union Observatory for Nanomaterials
 database.
 Critical constraints over the use of personal health data are essential to comply with security
 requirements and preserve anonymity. Through SAIL, we have shaped international standards
 on the use of such data. We have novel secure protocols that allow access so that any bona fide
 researcher from anywhere in the world with a project with potential public benefit can access SAIL
 and work with it easily and remotely. There is no charge for the use of data. It allows researchers
 to move away from aggregated data to individual linked longitudinal national-scale cohorts,
 including primary and secondary healthcare records; social services; ambulance services and
 NHS111; intensive care; pathology services; birth, mortality and census registers from the Office
 for National Statistics (ONS); pharmacy and dispensing records; cancer registers, screening
 services, waiting times and national referral schemes; education data from Key Stage 1 to
 university; fire and rescue services; and a suite of COVID-19 data and other health and
 administrative data sources. SAIL has influenced data-intensive initiatives worldwide.
 Furthermore, we have GitLab open repository software for all SAIL research projects to catalogue
 source codes used in research, along with a data source library that SAIL leads as one of the
 pioneers and alliance members to a UK initiative (https://www.healthdatagateway.org/), exactly as
 they were used in publications. This allows checking and reproducibility/replicability at later stages
 (regular code contributions are also made to GitHub). SAIL has recently opened the UKSeRP
 research cloud specifically designed to support secure use and storage of secondary data
 (https://serp.ac.uk/).
 In the Clinical Research Facilities (CRF), all trials are registered on ISRCTN or clinicaltrials.gov,
 and the publication of protocols, including analysis plans, is standard operating procedure. We
 offer an outstanding environment for study replication, extended follow-up and open scholarship
 involving clinical trials by embedding data within the SAIL system. Newly collected trial data can
 be brought into the databank, with the added benefit of security, documentation, and accessibility,




                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and the trial data can be expanded upon in follow-up or retrospectively (subject to ethical
 approval).

2. People
2.1. Staffing strategy and staff development
 The University’s Performance and Development Review (PDR) process is based on individual
 staff key performance indicators (KPIs) related to goals such as grant income, teaching,
 publication, PGR supervision and achieving impact. Line management structure is aligned with
 research themes, and PDR meetings take place every six months. The University is committed to
 the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and the Vitae Research
 Development Framework.
2.1.1. Promotions and recruitment in current REF period
 All Category A staff have permanent contracts supported by the School Business Plan. Five
 current Cat A staff moved from fixed term to permanent positions, eight staff were promoted
 from lecturer to senior lecturers, 10 were promoted to associate professor and 11 were
 promoted to professor. There are currently significant opportunities within the business plan to
 prioritise investment in multiple junior lectureships within areas of strength. This process began in
 2020 with the appointment of two lecturers and two senior lecturers and will continue in 2021.
 Recruitment and promotion have strengthened all research themes, with notable effects on
 outputs and impact:

  PPHI                       ICS3 was supported by the appointments of Alan Watkins in 2014
                             (with promotion to professor in 2019) and Alison Porter as associate
                             professor in 2017 and the promotion of Hayley Hutchings to
                             professor in 2016.
                             ICS5 was led by Ann John, promoted to professor in 2017.
                             Kerina Jones was awarded a chair in 2018, associated with the
                             SAIL expansion.
                             Professor Greg Fegan was recruited in 2015, to lead the Swansea
                             Trials Unit.

  Biomarkers and Genes       ICS4 was co-led by Yuqin Wang, promoted to professor in 2018.
                             The British Heart Foundation team (4 staff members) was welcomed
                             into SUMS in 2017.

  Microbes and Immunity      Cathy Thornton and Gwyneth Davies were appointed to chairs in
                             2014 and 2018, respectively, both took on deputy head of school
                             roles and have contributed strong outputs to the current REF
                             submission.

  Medical Technologies       ICS1 was led by Shareen Doak, promoted to professor in 2014, and
                             she has been supported by the recruitment of Martin Clift as senior
                             lecturer in 2017, (now promoted to associate professor).

2.1.2. Support mechanisms for staff development
 We have two dedicated research support advisers in the University’s Life Science Research Hub
 who identify funding, circulate new call updates and provide assistance with costing. The bid
 development team hold weekly surgeries to nurture applications from an early stage, encourage
 best practise and offer training in bid writing skills through a support blog. Our Research
 Committee and theme leads provide an internal peer-review process for grants prior to
 submission. Our head of school provides a weekly email update on SUMS activities and takes this


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 opportunity to highlight staff and student achievements, publications and grant success. We
 celebrate research achievements at a peer-nominated annual awards ceremony.
 Additional support and reward for research is provided through several mechanisms. Grant
 overheads are returned at a rate of 5% to the principal investigator, and a PGR studentship is
 awarded for every £100,000 overhead in awarded income. SUMS has invested £490K in
 equipment maintenance, ensuring continuity of facilities throughout the life span of the projects.
 The supervision of each student research project is rewarded through an allocation of £150-£750,
 depending on the programme (BSc/MSc/PhD), plus an additional research allowance for
 undertaking significant management roles. In 2018, a new lectureship was awarded on the basis
 of recognising the overall contribution of a team to the wider SUMS environment. Our bid for
 University PGR studentships is also directed strategically to areas of research strength and ECR
 potential. We have underwritten several strategic laboratory refurbishments (linked to ICS4)
 and the 50% costs of equipment associated with UKRI awards. Sabbaticals were supported during
 the period, with host institutions including Cambridge University, Woods Hole Oceanographic
 Institution and Harvard University.
 Specific support for ECRs comes from our own charity, St David’s Medical Foundation (SMDF),
 which prioritises annual seedcorn grants (£6000 x4) for ECR projects. We focus on helping ECRs
 recruit PGR students through our bids for University studentships (17), distribution of doctoral
 training grants (11 through the ESRC and EPSRC) and 50% funding on Sêr Cymru awards (9).
 Grant writing support (for all staff) is available from the University’s Life Sciences Research Hub,
 and we support ECRs in leadership training e.g., participation in the Welsh Crucible programme.
 In SUMS, ECRs are allocated a mentor and a probation supervisor, both of whom assist them in
 developing and implementing a successful research strategy. In addition, SUMS supports new
 academic staff to help establish independent research activities by minimising teaching
 commitments.
2.2. Training and supervision of research students
 Our thriving research student community has increased significantly, with 162.5 research degrees
 awarded in this REF period (average of 23 per year, up from an average of 12 for REF2014 and
 8 for RAE2008, see figure below).




 NB: Fractional headcount reflects interdisciplinary cross-college PGR supervision (see 1.2.3.)
 Of these, 50 were supported through UKRI, NIHR or Health Care Research Wales (HCRW).
 Notable studentships with significant industrial/international involvement include:
        RCUK Industrial Case Awards

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        ESRC Doctoral Training Programme in Data Science, Health and Wellbeing
        BBSRC GW4 Doctoral Training Programme Associate Partner
        Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships scheme
        Collaborative PhD programmes with the Methodist Hospital Research Institute in Houston,
         Texas, and Grenoble Alpes have led to 12 PhD studentships
 PGR students are recruited following funder guidelines, with EDI considered, and are then treated
 inclusively as research team members. PGR student facilities include individual workstations; free
 on-site poster printing/photocopying; a hub in ILS1 with a meeting area and cafe; a hub in ILS2
 with digital presentation facilities, a kitchen and respite rooms (for return from maternity leave or
 return after illness). Students benefit from extended online access to healthcare literature at the
 adjacent NHS library system. PGR students contributed as authors to 22% of papers selected
 as our REF outputs. Sustainability around PGR recruitment benefits from strong links to our
 undergraduate and masters programmes, with 36% of the PGR completions being researchers
 who completed taught study with us.
 A new strategy for PGR support was delivered in 2019. Within SUMS, students are supported by
 a dedicated PGR office team and PGR Committee, with progression formally monitored via an
 initial research proposal (and ‘confirmation of candidature’ review by two independent researchers
 at 3 months). A 1st year viva determines progression from year 1 to year 2, with three academic
 staff who assess written work, understanding, work plan, supervisor input and student experience.
 As well as assessment, this serves as practice for their final viva.
 All students present at an annual postgraduate research conference to develop presentation
 skills and practise answering (and asking) questions in a friendly, and realistic, conference
 environment. The conference is entirely organised (advertising/timetabling/plenary
 speakers/entertainment) by PGR students themselves. Prizes (£500 conference travel) are
 awarded for talks, posters and ‘contributions from the floor’. The conference includes a ‘3-minute
 thesis’ competition, and winners compete at the University and regional level. PGR students
 participate in the University’s ‘Research As Art’ competition.
 All PGR students attend an induction, including lectures on research conduct, ethics and research
 integrity, research impact, writing skills, and presentation skills. An in-house statistics and data
 analysis course, equivalent to a 20-credit master’s-level module, is provided. The 1st year viva,
 PGR conference (including organisation), travel bursary and statistics course were all developed
 after requests, consultation and feedback from the research student body. There is a staff-
 student consultation committee and two student representative roles on the PGR Committee.
 A recent innovation has been led by SAIL researchers, many of whom have technical backgrounds
 (e.g., in computer science) and are qualified at the undergraduate or master’s level. Staff are now
 offered the opportunity to pursue a research degree, either through part-time study or longer term
 through PhD by published work. This not only offers significant staff development opportunities
 but also is a strategy to train a new type of researcher to meet the needs of data science (aligned
 with UKRI priorities): researchers with the ability to understand routine health data nuances and
 limitations, combined with statistics, programming, databases, and data visualisation, and who are
 aware of the biological and clinical plausibility of research questions. Such researchers can be
 difficult to recruit directly. Twenty-four staff members have registered as PGR students and
 have been awarded staff bursaries that cover all tuition fees. This programme is set to expand,
 and we awarded our first MD by published work in 2018.
 A second innovation has arisen from the strong links between SAIL and the informatics teams at
 Public Health Wales (PHW), where many of the key datasets originate. We currently have two
 PHW statisticians seconded at SAIL, who deliver priority COVID-19 projects but also are now
 registered for research degrees. As these are already experienced health data scientists, this
 programme offers substantial enrichment of both the SAIL and PHW research environments. We
 believe these initiatives offer a model for how national data linkage projects can work efficiently,
 and we envisage the programmes expanding, with further potential at the ONS and the NHS



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wales Informatics Service. Two current SAIL staff were also recruited following our SAIL Summer
 Internship scheme.
2.3. Equality and Diversity
 In 2020, a SUMS equality and diversity working group was established to ensure that key
 principles are embedded in all policies and practices (chaired by the head of school).
 Our commitment to equality is evidenced by long-standing success in the Athena Swan (AS)
 programme. The school achieved a Silver Award in 2015, successfully renewed (2019) until April
 2023. We have an active AS programme, with an annual culture survey (since 2012) and seminar
 series (recent topics including bullying and harassment; the health board BAME network; career
 networks; unconscious bias; the use of social media; and professionalism, equality, diversity and
 inclusion in science). The AS assessment team is comprised of 20 female and six male staff from
 both academic and professional services. Notable EDI achievements include:
       Improved gender balance of all committees. All three deputy heads of SUMS are female,
        enabled by job share.
       Critical AS friend to King’s, Exeter, Cardiff and Sydney Universities.
       Member of REF2021 EDAP (A Davies).
       PGR numbers have met gender equity every year (in terms of applications, offers,
        acceptance and completion rates).
       Data monitoring shows no evidence of vertical segregation in research staff.
       Since 2017, SUMS has offered several places on the Aurora Leadership Development
        for Women programme (five in 2019) to enable engagement with leadership from an early
        stage. Two participants were promoted to associate professor and one to professor.
       Equity in grant award values. Annually, 30-40% of grant applications are female led
        (against a background of 23% female CatA staff).
       Progression of female staff to professor has increased over the period and exceeds
        national benchmark levels (AS renewal award submission).
       Data monitoring previously highlighted a lower than national benchmark level of female
        clinical academics, making this a focus for improvement. This has required active
        engagement with NHS partners on recruitment, resulting in reaching equity at the senior
        lecturer/associate professor level, the appointment of our first two female clinical research
        professors, and a significantly more gender-balanced researcher community.
 SUMS has signed the British Medical Association BAME Charter and is represented on University
 BAME initiatives and the health board BAME network by Honorary Professor Farah Bhatti OBE.
 In response to the Black Lives Matter movement in 2020, the head of school convened meetings
 with student representatives to hear concerns. Swansea University takes part in
 Stonewell’s Workplace Equality Index and in 2020 was ranked 47th in the league table of all UK
 employers and 6th for all education establishments. The school’s pride flag is raised for
 LGBTSTEM Day, and we marked World AIDS Day 2019 with fundraising and seminars. In 2019,
 we changed pronoun badges and door signs to help create a more inclusive environment. We are
 represented on the All-Party Parliamentary Group at Westminster on Diversity and Inclusion in
 STEM (British Science Association) by Dr Aiden Seeley (Biomedical Sciences lecturer), who has
 been awarded the inaugural British Pharmacological Society’s Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion Prize (sponsored by AstraZeneca). In 2016, the University introduced the Mx title in
 application forms to be inclusive of non-binary and trans staff/students.
 We are a bilingual school and University, and committed to Welsh Language Standards and
 compliance with the National Assembly for Wales Official Languages Act 2012. One of the
 deputy heads of SUMS, Professor Gwyneth Davies, is the Welsh Language Lead. Professor
 Davies sits on the University Welsh Language Strategy Committee and is a Welsh language
 interviewer and health board liaison. Ten staff are annually engaged with bilingual supervision of


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGR or undergraduate research projects. A dedicated member of our research staff (Coleg
 Cymraeg-funded) facilitates thesis writing, viva preparation and support for funding applications.
 A senior researcher with physical disabilities is supported by provision of a dedicated technician
 to assist with laboratory work and through laboratory modifications. We have also made necessary
 adjustments for visual impairment at the bench and throughout PGR candidature and examination
 procedures. Recent adjustments to laboratories through the Accelerate HTC provide accessible
 and adjustable bench space. Annual workshops have focused on living with visual disabilities
 and mental health.
 A new University wellbeing strategy was published in 2020. The school operates on flexible
 working hours and has family-friendly hours. Staff have arranged phased returns after ill health
 and can work condensed four-day weeks, part-time, and from home. The University has enhanced
 statutory entitlement; therefore, all pregnant employees are entitled to 52 weeks maternity leave
 (regardless of service). For researchers , where external funding does not provide coverage, staff
 may apply to a central University maternity fund allowing principal investigators to employ
 temporary cover. Mental health initiatives are actively supported by the Head of School Keith Lloyd
 (professor of psychiatry) who advises on the Health for Health Professionals national scheme, and
 Deputy Head Ann John (trustee of the Mental Health Foundation), who leads on several MQ
 funded grants on student wellbeing. In Wales, the Wellbeing of Future Generations Act (2015)
 places specific legal requirements on higher education institutions related to individual wellbeing
 and the environment. Our ARCH programme was reviewed and repurposed to clarify how this
 legal requirement will be embedded in work across the region.
 In line with the University’s Code of Practice and our unit Statement of Intent, the team preparing
 this submission all received mandatory unconscious bias training, and targeted REF specific
 training on fair and transparent output selection. The submission comprises the one best-quality
 output from each Cat A submitted staff member, with the balance made up from the best available
 pool of eligible outputs. The selection of outputs in SUMS was blinded to the identity of the
 author to whom the output was assigned. The distribution of submitted papers meets the
 expectation from our staff demographics. We have 23% Cat A female staff members, to whom
 25% of our submitted outputs are attributed. Impact case study review was conducted at the
 University level, anonymously. We note that all our submitted impact case studies are female led
 (three studies) or female co-led (two studies). Three impact case study leads are female BAME
 professors. Two of our four theme leads are female. SUMS signed up to, and achieved, a 50:50
 female/male representation for our senior leadership committees by 2020 (Chwarae Teg pledge,
 International Women’s Day, 2016).
2.4. Staff Support and Working Practices during the Pandemic
 In addition to supporting the transition of staff to working from home, our COVID-19 Working Group
 carried out risk-assessments (June 2020) to support safe access to essential facilities, in particular
 to the Biomedical Laboratories, CNH, SAIL and CRF. Timetables were organised for research
 staff and PGR students where working density in laboratories needed to be reduced. It was crucial
 to allay concerns of PGR students over deadlines, who were also supported with project
 extensions. SUMS staff and research students donated PPE to support our partner health board.
2.5. Integration of Clinical Academics and NHS-Employed Active Researchers
 The co-location of our environment with Singleton Hospital and long-term links with nearby
 Morriston Hospital (expanding significantly with ARCH, see section 1.2.3) enable us to integrate
 with NHS staff across health professions. Nine of our Cat A staff hold joint NHS appointments,
 including the director of R&D at Swansea Bay University Health Board (Bain) and several
 members of the School Leadership Team (John, G Davies). In addition, A Davies is a consultant
 biomedical microbiologist at the National Cryptosporidium Reference Unit. Hugtenburg has a joint
 appointment as a clinical scientist practising in radiotherapy physics.
 We have built strong links with NHS researchers through honorary contracts, including the chief
 executive of the Health Board. Exemplars include: Consultant Physiotherapist Battle was
 awarded her PhD at SUMS and is now the lead for injuries and emergencies research in Wales
 for HCRW, with strong links to our clinical trials unit. New research collaborations in Pharmacy,

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 led by four honorary staff, are a target of future expansion, given the opportunities of the new
 pharmacy undergraduate programme. Colleagues in Electrophysiology at Morriston Hospital work
 closely with our new BHF centre. Paramedic N Rees is director of R&D for the Wales Ambulance
 Trust. He studied for his PhD at SUMS and has helped develop the programme leading to impact
 case studies in both REF2014 and REF2021 (ICS3). We are co-located at Singleton Hospital with
 surgeon Harris, who leads a research programme testing for bowel cancer and has full access to
 our laboratories and expertise in Raman spectroscopy and trials. SUMS also hosts a programme
 for trainee surgeons whereby they take on a role as clinical lecturers and obtain staff bursaries for
 MD research. We have also hosted nine prestigious Welsh Clinical Academic Track (WCAT)
 Fellowships. These fellowships are eight-year (PhD to consultant) positions, with the aim of
 equipping trainees with the range of skills required to compete as independent investigators and
 lead research from ‘bench to bedside’. WCAT Fellows have focused on biomedical projects
 involving cell scaffolds, biomarkers and biosensors.

3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities
3.1. Income
 Research spending for the period is shown in the following figure. The annual average (£13.5m)
 demonstrates growth since the REF2014 (£8.2m per year) and RAE2008 (£3.3m) periods,
 reflecting sustained success as a research-led school.




 SUMS continues to attract awards from a wide range of prestigious funders: the MRC (50),
 BBSRC (31), EPSRC (23), NERC (5), ESRC (10), Wellcome Trust (12), H2020 (3), Bill and
 Melinda Gates Foundation/Microsoft (2), NIHR (10), BHF (7) and Royal Society (4).
 ILS2 houses Saint David’s Medical Foundation (SDMF, holdings approximately £750,000), an
 independent charity that raises funds to support research. Each year, SDMF offers ‘seedcorn’
 research projects through open competition among young postdoctoral investigators (including
 work that led to a publication in Nature Communications).
 An exemplar award allocated as part of large research consortia is Health Data Research UK.
 As part of the UK Life Sciences Industrial Strategy, the UK Government committed £37.5m to
 data-driven research in healthcare. The ‘One Institute’ strategy has major partners at 31 locations,
 with that in Wales/NI led by Swansea/Belfast. PATROLS is a €12.7m global Swansea-led
 consortia (H2020) of 24 institutions. Large Innovation and Enterprise-focused consortia include
 £12.2m BEACON, with Aberystwyth, Bangor, and the University of South Wales; CALIN, the
 £10.7m Ireland-Wales Territorial co-operation project; and Accelerate HTC, part of a £33m project
 that brings together 3 Welsh Universities and Welsh Government.



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 There is a strong link between our income and high-quality publications, illustrated by the following
 selected outputs across all four research themes:
       Biomarkers and Genes: Lipidomics (PNAS, Griffiths and Wang, BBSRC), Molecular
        Cardiology (Circulation Research, George, BHF)
       Medical Technologies: Nanomaterials (ACS Nano, Doak, H2020) and rheology (Open
        Heart, Hawkins and Evans, EPSRC)
       Microbes and Immunity: Asthma genetic epidemiology (Nature, G Davies, Asthma UK),
        Salmonella epidemiology (Nature Genetics, Humphrey, BBSRC) and T-cell response
        (Nature Communications, N Jones and Thornton, NRN Wales)
       PPHI: Clinical trials (Lancet, J Williams, NIHR/Wellcome), alcohol-related harm (Public
        Health Research, Fry, Wellcome/SAIL), and global burden of disease (Lancet, Lyons,
        MRC/SAIL).
 Similarly, as discussed in section 1.3, we can demonstrate a strong link between major income
 capture and all of our five selected impact case studies: ICS1:Global Nanosafety (H2020); ICS2:
 Azole Antifungals (BEACON/EU, BBSRC, US National Institutes of Health); ICS3: PRISMATIC
 (NIHR, HS&DR); ICS4: Sterol Analysis (BBSRC), and Suicide and Self-Harm Prevention
 (MRC, MQ, HCRW).
3.2. Organisational Infrastructure
 Our four research themes draw upon five major facilities:
               SAIL Databank
               Centre for Nanohealth
               Biomedical Laboratories
               Clinical Research Facilities
               Commercial Incubators
 3.2.1. SAIL Databank
 A flagship facility is the SAIL Databank, a world-leading novel technology that allows routinely
 collected patient data at the individual level to be used in biomedical research while maintaining
 the highest standards of patient anonymity. It offers distinct expertise and exceptionally strong
 infrastructure for the development, storage, access, analysis and commercial development of
 electronic health records. Currently, there are more than 4.5 billion anonymised person-based
 events within the SAIL Databank, and these events can be linked to geographic, educational,
 social service, transport and environmental data, creating an exceptionally rich international
 resource. Building on pioneering work at the Health Informatics Research Unit, CIPHER (MRC-
 led, 2013-2016) was one of four e-health research UK Centres of Excellence. Professor Sir John
 Savill, Chief Executive of the MRC, commented:
 “This is a watershed moment for data research and for the Medical Research Council which I
 believe will deliver the benefits of e-health research, improving patient care over the coming years.
 The way in which the partner organisations have come together to invest in e-health underpins its
 importance and will help establish the UK as a world leader in this field.”
 UKRI invested an additional £20m in the Farr Institute for Health Informatics, with one of the four
 centres based at SUMS. This investment enabled the completion of the ILS Data Science
 Building in 2015. The ESRC investment of £8m in the Administrative Data Research allowed
 our e-Health and informatics expertise to include social science and economic data. In 2018
 there was a further £4.5m UKRI investment in Health Data Research UK (HDRUK), and a new
 innovation, UKSeRP, an important development in open scholarship. UKSeRP is a research
 cloud trusted research environment (TRE), pushing the horizons on ‘health informatics’ to
 include omics, imaging, NLP, and GIS. UKSeRP-hosted research programmes include the
 £7.5m MRC Dementia Research Platform UK. The impact of CIPHER, the Farr Institute, HDRUK
 and UKSeRP is supported by many international testimonials:



                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 “SAIL’s approach to data science and their success in linking data has been an inspiration and
 model for our efforts to bring together social services and health data in Ontario, Canada”
 (Michael Hillmer, Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care, Canada)
 “If you want to know what data linkage in the UK might look like in future decades, take a look at
 where SAIL is currently” (Dr Dermot O’Reilly, Director of ADRC-Northern Ireland, Queen’s
 University Belfast).
 3.2.2. Biomedical Laboratories
 This is one of the largest and most diverse of the ILS facilities, based over three buildings, offering
 custom-designed        laboratory    bench    space,     including extensive Biosafety      Level     2
 laboratory space, tissue culture facilities, microscopy (confocal, fluorescent, laser capture), flow
 cytometry and cell sorting facilities. Recent additions include XF e24 and XF e96 extracellular flux
 analysers, a Bruker BioScope Catalyst (on Nikon Eclipse), Illumina MiSeq benchtop sequencing, a
 NanoString nCounter, a BD Rhapsody system, a 10x Genomics Chromium Controller and the only
 CytoViva microscope in the UK. Recent investments in mass spectrometry facilities have
 expanded our capabilities in lipidomics, building on the long-standing (30 years) UKRI Mass
 Spectrometry Facility, which has now evolved from a service facility into a research facility
 (supporting the lipid metabolomics team and one of our impact case studies). Other recent
 refurbishments include investment in the Accelerate HTC laboratory, flow cytometry, functional
 genomics, two electrophysiology laboratories, and a re-fitted diabetes laboratory. A linked facility
 (based within the Emergency Department of Morriston Hospital) is the Clinical Haemostasis and
 Biomarker Research Unit. A new entomology culture lab (established in 2019) in the ILS1 building
 supports novel symbiont siRNA development.
 3.2.3. Clinical Research Facilities (CRF)
 Three linked SUMS units, supporting biomedical research, form the CRF:
 The Swansea Trials Unit (STU) is one of approximately 50 groups undertaking clinical trials
 registered (2015) by the UK’s Clinical Research Collaboration. The STU has a current portfolio of
 20 trials, and key strengths in the methodological development of patient-reported outcome
 measures, public and patient involvement in the co-production of research, and utilising
 anonymised routine data repositories such as SAIL.
 The Joint Clinical Research Facility (JCRF) is a self-funding SUMS/Health Board partnership,
 with units in ILS2 and Morriston Hospital and a track record of being first to recruit globally and
 first in the UK. Since 2014, the JCRF has undertaken 171 studies, supporting 135 multi-centre
 trials, with over 5,000 participants ranging from early Phase I to Phase IV. The JCRF has seen 24
 trial interventions bought to market, with investigators being a chief investigator for 48 trials and
 overseeing the recruitment for 30.
 The Medical Imaging unit includes a Siemens 3T Magnetom Skyra, a Siemens Somatom
 computed tomography (CT) scanner and a Syngio Viao image processing server, plus contrast
 injection systems for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and CT, a cannulation suite, an image
 processing/reporting room, an interview room and accessible changing facilities. Conventional
 and advanced fields of medical imaging are available, requiring custom-designed imaging
 protocols.
 3.2.4. Centre for Nanohealth
 A joint interdisciplinary initiative between SUMS and the Colleges of Engineering and Science,
 CNH has evolved, with renewed emphasis on medical technology and advanced therapeutics.
 Located in ILS2, CNH offers state-of-the-art, cross-discipline fabrication facilities (nanogrowth,
 chemical functionalisation, tissue engineering, and molecular biology) alongside downstream
 characterisation tools (nano-/micro-rheology and biological-atomic force, scanning electron,
 tunnelling electron, scanning near field, nuclear magnetic resonance and precision fluorescence
 microscopy). This complements a bio-suite tailored for nanotoxicology and biosafety evaluation
 (class 100/1000 clean room), informing advanced diagnostics, therapeutics and 3D disease
 models. With direct access to the JCRF, medical imaging, ILS1 laboratories and clinical,
 biomedical, and engineering staff, CNH leads industry-sponsored research (PATROLS, CALIN,

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 BHF, as well as the Cluster for Epigenetics and ADC Therapeutics (CEAT)) garnering commercial
 support for translation.
 3.2.5. Commercial Incubators
 Close links with industry are maintained through the co-location of ILS researchers, academics
 with small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). ILS1 and ILS2 have dedicated business
 zones for company activities. Since 2014, there have been 20 full-tenant companies (with seven
 ‘graduated’) and 15 resident affiliate companies with desk space. In addition, 412 companies were
 assisted in R&D collaborations, 37 new companies were created, 44 new patents were registered
 and increased turnover in companies assisted totalled £51.9M. Exemplar research-focused
 commercial activities include the following:
       BUCANIER (2017-2021): The aim of BUCANIER was to support small businesses on
        the Irish Sea Border in key growth areas of life sciences and renewable energy, with a
        budget of €2.9M 132 enterprises engaged, 15 FTE jobs created, 22 new-to-market
        products, and 62 new-to-firm products.
       CALIN (2016-2023): The €19M CALIN, an Ireland-Wales Programme uniting six
        universities, has provided more than 3500 hours of support to 146 SMEs, with 200
        products launched onto the life science market, 20 new jobs in the sector and an inward
        investment of over €10M.
       Accelerate HTC (2018-2022): The HCTC is hosted by SUMS and partnered with the
        Welsh Government’s Life Science Hub, University of Wales Trinity Saint David and Cardiff
        University to the £24m Pan-Wales Accelerate programme funded by the Welsh
        Government and European Regional Development Fund. The HCTC has partnered locally
        in 20 research and innovation projects, with 15 dedicated staff and a network reaching
        throughout industry, the NHS and the third sector.
3.3. Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure
 Our biomedical research environment is supported by SUMS through sustained investment in
 a thriving cohort of permanent staff which include research technicians, research officers, data
 analysts, statisticians, and administrative staff, all employed to support the ongoing research
 activities of the school. In addition, our life sciences research hub (comprising six core staff with
 additional support from peripatetic staff) supports bid writing, project and financial management
 with close links to the University Research Engagement and Innovation Services team to provide
 additional infrastructure, with particular expertise in European and UKRI projects and
 IP/Commercialisation. In addition, there is a School Enterprise and Innovation team (three staff).
 SUMS accesses a range of central infrastructure across other HEI, such as high-performance
 computing at Supercomputing Wales (epidemiology, bioinformatics), the European
 Synchotron Radiation Facility at Grenoble (nanotoxicity), CERN (clinical radiation physics),
 Texas Medical Centre (in vivo models, cardio pump devices), Wales Gene Park (functional
 genomics, epidemiology), UK Biobank (mental health), Baby Biobank at UCL and Imperial
 College (maternal and child health), Wales Cancer Bank (genetic toxicology, biomarkers),
 Woods Hole Research Center (cytochrome P450), NIH facilities at the University of Florida
 (fertility), and Scotland’s Rural College (microbial genomics). SUMS reciprocates by housing its
 own major central HEI facility, the SAIL Databank, which is accessed by many institutions
 worldwide.
 HCRW has a vibrant programme of research networks and structures. Our researchers are
 particularly engaged with HCRW research centres (mental health, population health and
 wellbeing, cancer research, cardiovascular research, and primary and emergency care) and
 HCRW research units (diabetes and brain repair and intracranial neurotherapeutics). SUMS also
 leads one of the three HCRW Clinical Trials Units and one of three HCRW major infrastructure
 support groups (SAIL).
 The interdisciplinary relationships built up through our research activities have resulted in major
 benefits in kind, aiding our growing research environment and that of our partners. The ILS
 laboratories house specialist equipment jointly acquired with the College of Engineering

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (rheometers, transmission electron microscope). The reopening of the neighbouring Department
 of Chemistry which has received significant start-up investment has stimulated new joint research
 activities. Similarly, we access to entomology and zebrafish facilities in the School of
 Biosciences. The largest health board hospital, Morriston Hospital, provides a full ward for our
 CRF. Equipment secured through our income is also housed in two major laboratories at Morriston
 Hospital (rheology, regenerative medicine), and we have access to the Singleton Hospital
 pathology laboratory. ILS2 houses the health board R&D office and the Wales Ambulance Service
 research office. NHS colleagues provided Raman spectroscopy equipment, leading to
 significant collaborations between SUMS and the Department of Physics. Equipment has also
 been donated by industrial collaborators Unilever (high-performance liquid chromatography) and
 GE Healthcare (imaging, microscopy).

4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society
 Our vitality is evidenced through leadership and engagement with many international initiatives
 and the international reputations of our researchers. Our sustainability can be seen in the
 contributions made across many disciplines and career stages. The following table summarises
 our activities undertaken in the census period by Cat A staff only (55.7 FTE). The subsequent
 sections present highlighted contributions of named individuals.

    Indicators of collaboration/contribution                                             Count

    Formal visiting positions at other universities/institutions                          39

    Journal editorial board memberships                                                   44

    Membership of the boards of external advisory bodies                                  118

    Conference organisation                                                               61

    Plenary and keynote lectures                                                          161

    Invited lectures                                                                      237

    Other conference presentations                                                        669

    Personal fellowships awarded competitively                                            11

4.1. Support for Effective Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
 SUMS staff are involved with leading several initiatives to promote research collaboration at
 the national and international levels:
 Jenkins is President of UK Environmental Mutagen Society. Johnson is President of the
 European Environmental Mutagenesis and Genomics Society. Hawkins serves as Secretary of
 the British Society of Rheology and Director of the Institute of Non-Newtonian Fluid Mechanics.
 Lyons is Chair of the International Collaborative Effort on Injury Statistics and Methods for US
 Centers for Disease Control and past chair of the 110,000 UK Birth Cohort Study Record Linkage
 Group. Van Keulen is Chair of the Prokaryotic Division of the Microbiology Society. Lloyd and
 John co-chair the Cochrane Foundation Satellite for suicide and self-harm prevention. Bain is
 Clinical Director of the Academic Health Science Collaboration. Weston was Clinical Director of
 the Myocardial Ischaemia National Audit Project (MINAP). Doak is steering board member of the
 International Genetic Toxicology Technical Committee (and Nanomaterials Team co-Chair). Ford
 is Deputy Director of the Wales and Northern Ireland Health Data Research UK. Dyson is
 Scientific Advisor for the International Foundation for Science. Pallister is Vice-President of AO
 UK&I Foundation for musculoskeletal injury and disease. Williams is Founding Director of the
 Royal College of Physicians Health Informatics Unit. G Davies is Wales Respiratory Specialty
 lead for NIHR. George is Chair of the Wales National Cardiovascular Network. Thornton serves
 on the High Council for Evaluation of Research and Higher Education (HCERES), France. Evans

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 is Senior UK and Overseas Examiner for the Royal College of Emergency Medicine. Wagstaff
 has been Director of Wales Cancer Trials Network and a Member of the UK National Cancer
 Research Network. SUMS has formal partnerships with Union Hospital Wuhan and Tongji
 Medical College of Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Grenoble Alps University,
 Soochow University in China, Monash University in Australia, the Methodist Hospital Research
 Institute in Houston, the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Rice University, and
 Texas A&M University.
 SUMS senior roles on advisory bodies include the following:
 Stephens is Wales’ lead on the Diabetes UK Council of Health Care Professionals and contributed
 to the WHO Global Report on Diabetes. Bain is a Royal College of Physicians Specialty
 representative for diabetes and endocrinology, Adviser to the National Institute of Clinical
 Excellence, and a former member of the UK Human Genetics Commission and National DNA
 database. Roberts and Williams served on the Lancet Commission into Liver Disease. K Lewis
 is a member of the European Respiratory Society Tobacco Taskforce. Jenkins and Doak sit on
 the Expert Panel, UK Government’s Committee on Mutagenicity. Tan leads the Eating Disorder
 Service Review for the Welsh Government. Griffiths serves on the Lipid Maps Advisory Board.
 Humphrey is a member of the UK Advisory Committee on the Microbial Safety of Food and the
 Steering Group for the BBSRC Animal Health Club. Doak is expert advisor to the OECD Panel on
 Genotoxicity of Nanomaterials and the European Commission Scientific Committee on Consumer
 Safety.
4.2. Interaction with Key Research Users, Beneficiaries and Audiences, and Wider
     Contribution to the Economy and Society
 Many of our impact focused activities have been covered already in the previous sections (impact
 case studies, SAIL, UKSeRP, ILS, CNH, CALIN, PATROLS, BEACON). Other notable wider
 contributions include the following: partnership in the BBSRC CampAttack consortium on host
 pathogen interactions (Wilkinson) and BREATHE, the Health Data Research Hub for Respiratory
 Health (SAIL, Ford, G Davies). More mature projects that are already delivering wider impact (in
 addition to our 5 case studies) include Calon Cardio-Technology, a mini-heart pump company
 housed in the ILS, which demonstrates both economic impact and research outputs through
 funded collaborations with Thornton and Kanamarlapudi focused on inflammatory responses to
 the implants. PROMS (Hutchings, J Williams) is focused on a firm evidence base for treatment
 based on the experience of the patient to better refine interventions across a range of conditions.
 Snooks has evaluated new protocols for paramedics to assist older people after falls (SAFER2)
 and evidence for a survival advantage in myocardial infarction patients if given a prehospital
 electrocardiogram (ECG). Roberts’ work on gastroenterological disorders has had an impact on
 service provision across Europe. Ford is the chair of the academic advisory group for the Court
 Reform Evaluation Panel at the Ministry of Justice and director of the UK Multiple Sclerosis
 Register, in partnership with the MS Society. Brophy leads the Primary School Network in Wales,
 bringing together schools, the third sector, public health clinicians, and health and education
 researchers to evaluate wellbeing in schools, with a focus on those with chronic conditions.
4.3. Community and Diverse Community Engagement
 Fegan has long-standing involvement with global health initiatives in low- to middle-income
 countries. He is external examiner at the Muhimbili Christian Medical Centre in Tanzania and
 initiated R statistics training programmes in Kenya. Snooks is project lead for Welsh Government
 Policy Implementation Guidance on Health Expectations of Asylum Seekers and Refugees. We
 have a recent MOU with the Medical College and Genetics Department at Dhaka, Bangladesh,
 with research training and collaboration provided to new clinical and science fellows in DNA
 mutation, gastroenterology and clinical trials/statistics. D Kelly has supported numerous
 institutions on AS initiatives. Doak was keynote speaker at NRN Diversity in Science and
 Engineering 2017 and co-organised Richness in Diversity: Academic Careers in STEM. Lyons
 served on the First Minister’s COVID-19 Advisory Group on BAME issues. Howell has hosted MS
 Society patient information days and fundraising events. Our Biomedical Laboratories annually
 hosts laboratory placements for children from low-income families through the Nuffield Future


                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Researchers Scheme. Owens established the national retinopathy screening initiative in Mauritius
 and Trinidad and Tobago.
 Public engagement events have included: 32 articles in The Conversation; active involvement
 in Soapbox Science, Pint of Science, and research animation outreach on YouTube; and
 hosting the British Science Festival at Swansea (2016). Many staff engaged with public outreach
 during the pandemic (BBC television and radio, Channel 4, Time Magazine, Washington
 Post, National Eisteddfod ‘Cyfraniad Cymru i guro COVID-19’, and The Conversation).
4.4. Wider Influence on the Research Base
 4.4.1. Selected Journal Editor Roles (out of 44)

  Founding Editor-in-Chief International Journal of Population Data Science (K Jones)

  Editor-in-Chief           Mutagenesis (Doak); Fibres (Clift); Applied Radiation and Isotopes
                            (Hugtenburg)

  Deputy Editor-in-Chief    International Maritime Health (Roberts)

  Senior Editor             British Journal of Pharmacology (George); Mutagenesis (Jenkins).

  Full Editor               Drug Resistance Updates (S Kelly); Royal Society Biology Letters
                            (Gravenor); Cardiovascular Research; Frontiers in Physiology;
                            Artery Research (George); Journal of NanoBiotechnology (Clift);
                            Health Technology Assessment (Snooks); Mutation Research
                            (Jenkins); International Journal of Molecular Sciences (Lamb)

 4.4.2. Notable Fellowships and Awards
 Sheldon won the Schofield Prize and Medal awarded by the University of Guelph, Canada, and
 was awarded FRCVS for Meritorious Contributions. Bhatti was appointed OBE. Kanamarlapudi
 was awarded the Association of Biotechnology and Pharmacy (ABAP) India Senior Scientist
 Award. Conlan won the i3S-Hovione Capital Health Innovation Prize. S Kelly won the George
 Schroepfer Medal from the American Oil Chemists Society (Salt Lake City) and shared the
 RegioStars Prize for EDRF projects (for BEACON) with D Kelly and colleagues at Aberystwyth
 and Bangor. Staff have won numerous MediWales Innovation and Industry Collaboration Awards.
 Prestigious research fellowships include: The British Heart Foundation Sir Thomas Lewis Chair of
 Cardiovascular Science (A Williams), Four Health and Care Research Wales Senior Fellowships
 (Lyons, J Williams, Snooks, Lloyd), Fellow of the Royal Society of Biology (Conlan, S Kelly),
 Fellowship of the Royal Society of Chemistry and Institute for Welsh Affairs (S Kelly), Bronze
 Clinical Excellence Award (G Davies, 2019; Lewis, 2018), Silver Clinical Excellence Award
 (Stephens, 2018; Lloyd, 2016; Weston, 2015), Gold Clinical Excellence Award (Bain, 2016), D
 Kelly, S Kelly, M Rees, John, Lloyd, Lyons, Doak, Snooks, and Kanamarlapudi were elected
 to the Learned Society of Wales.
 4.4.3. Notable Visiting Positions (out of 39)
 Distinguished Chair as Professor, Xian Jao Tong University, China; and Senior Affiliate Member
 of the Methodist Hospital Institute, Texas (Conlan). Visiting Professor, Department of
 Biochemistry, Vanderbilt University, USA (Lamb). Honorary Professorial Research Fellow,
 Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College (A Williams). First Distinguished Visiting Professor to the
 University of Tennessee (S Kelly). Visiting Professor, Chinese Academy of Sciences, and
 Universidade Federal de Fluminense, Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil (Dyson). Adjunct Professor,
 Monash University, Australia (Lyons). Honorary Professor in the School of Chemistry and
 Physics, University of KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa (Douglas). Distinguished Lecturer, Animal
 Molecular and Cell Biology Graduate Program, University of Florida, USA (Sheldon). Fulbright
 Scholarships (Lamb, Woods Hole; Jessop, Harvard University) and Royal Society Visiting
 Fellowship (Lamb).


                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.4.4. Notable Roles on Major Grant-Awarding Bodies
 Chair BBSRC GCRF Translation Panel, Chair BBSRC iFLIP Panel, Chair BBSRC DTP Awarding
 Panel, Chair NERC/BBSRC/AHRC Policy Internship Panel, and Deputy Chair Committee E
 (Sheldon). Deputy Chair of NC3R grant assessment panel (George). BBSRC Committee D
 (Wang, Kanamarlapudi). MRC Populations and Systems Medicine, ESRC Research Methods,
 and international reviewer for Health Research Board for Ireland (Brophy). EPSRC Healthcare
 Technologies (Evans). CRUK review panel (Jenkins). Vice-Chair of the British Heart Foundation
 Fellowships (A Williams). BBSRC Technology Development Fund Panel (Conlan). European
 Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership (Fegan). Foulkes Foundation Advisory
 Committee (J Williams). Senior Scientific Advisor NIHR Health Services and Delivery Programme
 (Snooks).        Welcome         Trust      Science        Interview      Panel        (Lyons).
 Wellcome/BBSRC/EPSRC/NIHR/MRC/Diabetes UK Pool of Experts (Hawkins, Wang, D Kelly,
 S Kelly, Hutchings, Watkins, Fegan, Stephens). Future Leader Fellowship panel, UKRI (John).
 4.4.5. Notable Invited Conference Roles (all at invited plenary/keynote level)
 Schofield Memorial Lecture, University of Ontario, Canada; Opening Expert at RCUK Newton
 Fund Meeting Brazil; and Endometritis, Gdansk, Poland (Sheldon). International Biometric
 Society, Uganda (Fegan). International Symposium on Solid-state Dosimetry, Zacatecas
 (Hugtenburg). International Conference and Asian Congress on Environmental Mutagens, Seoul
 (Johnson). MRC Council at Bristol; Sanda Macara BMA Memorial Lecture; National Network of
 Public Health Institutes, Atlanta (Lyons). eCells and Materials Conference, Davos, Switzerland
 (Khan). European Society of Cardiology, Nice; Royal Society Kavli Meeting, Cambridge; and
 British Heart Foundation, Cambridge (George). European Lipidomics Meeting, Graz, Austria
 (Griffiths). American Diabetes Association Meeting (Bain). Asian Pacific Society of Cardiology
 Congress (Stephens). Yeast Lipid Conference, Ghent (S Kelly). British Orthopaedic Research
 Society (Pallister). International Conference on Eating Disorders, New York (Tan). Environmental
 Mutagenesis Society of India, Lucknow (Jenkins). Academy of Medical Sciences and Informatics
 for Health, Manchester (Ford).
 Selected roles in international conference organisation:

  Hosted at Swansea      30th Anniversary RCUK Mass Spectrometry Centre Celebration (S
                         Kelly). European Lipidomic Meeting (Wang, Griffiths). 3rd Symposium
                         of the European Network for Oxysterol Research (Wang, Griffiths).
                         International Population Data Linkage conference, (Ford), British Yeast
                         Group Conference (S Kelly),

  Organising             European Nanomedicine Meeting, UK (Conlan). Institute of Non-
  committee              Newtonian Fluid Mechanics Meeting, UK (Hawkins). European Study
                         Group on Cardiovascular Oscillations, UK (Edwards). Symposium of
                         the European Network for Oxysterol Research, France (Griffiths).
                         Administrative Data Research, UK (Ford). European Society for Artificial
                         Organs, UK (Thornton). Annual (since 1993) Symposia on Cytochrome
                         P450 Biodiversity and Biotechnology, international (S Kelly). UKEMS,
                         UK (Jenkins). International Particle Toxicology Conference; British
                         Society    of   Nanomedicine     Early    Researcher      Conference;
                         NanoToxicology (Clift). World Buiatrics Congress, Japan (Sheldon).
                         Annual 999 EMS Research Forum, online (Snooks).

 4.4.6. Selected Roles in PGR Student Initiatives
 SUMS hosts the ESRC Data Science DTP and is a partner on BBSRC GW4 DTP. Fry is a HDRUK
 International Population Data Linkage Network summer school member. G Davies leads the
 Asthma UK PGR Training Programme. Thornton was awarded recognised research supervisor
 status in the inaugural UKCGE assessment and acts as reviewer for the scheme. A Davies was
 elected Vice-President for Learning at the Royal College of Pathologists, with a role to adapt



                                                                                          Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 postgraduate training to secure workforce continuity. Strategic collaborations with Grenoble,
 Texas and Wuhan have resulted in 12 international collaborative PGR projects.
4.5. Contribution of Cat C Staff
 In section 2.5 we highlighted strong research links with NHS staff. This is reflected in many
 honorary (Cat C) staff, who make a significant contribution to our environment through their
 contributions to the research base, economy and society. Our expanding efforts in pharmacy
 involves input to our cardiology HDRUK team (Daniel Harris, Welsh Government cross-party
 stroke campaign); the Director of the Royal Pharmaceutical Society for Wales (M Davies); and
 Head of Nuclear Medicine at Singleton Hospital (Hartman). Physiotherapist C Battle was awarded
 an Advanced Research Fellowship with HCRW. SAIL maintains strong links with former SUMS
 professor S Rodgers at Liverpool through current NIHR/MRC projects; and neurologist O Pickrell.
 In Radiology, we benefit from imaging expertise from our neighbouring Medical Physics NHS
 Department through shared ILS facilities (R Evans/J Phillips). The ARCH project includes
 Richard Evans, Medical Director of Swansea Bay University Health Board, and Phil Kloer,
 Medical Director of Hywel Dda.
 Our environment is enriched by artist, and Cat C staff member, Karen Ingham, e.g., the
 MRC/ESRC-funded ‘Be Seen’: an arts-led participatory approach to understanding ‘big data’ in
 young people’s mental health and use of images by young people.
4.6. Research Efforts Focused on Reproducibility
 The importance of reproducible and replicable research is recognised in the SAIL infrastructure,
 which not only allows code, protocol and data storage/access (through UKSeRP) but also offers
 considerable opportunity for reproducing research and follow-up replication studies. Examples
 include Lyons’ publications on health index external validation, Fry’s papers on alcohol exposure
 and Robert’s papers on liver disease mortality. Clinical trial data embedding in SAIL allows trial
 outcomes to be re-visited and enriched in a longitudinal manner (publications by Gravenor on
 asthma risk in children and Hutchings on health status scores and patient-reported outcomes).
 Conlan has published on issues of transparency and reproducibility in nanomedicine. Staff
 contribute to the Swansea University branch of the UK Reproducibility Network.
4.7. Contributions from Cat A Staff at Early Career Stages
 Evidence for the future sustainability and success of our development strategy is provided by
 exemplar contributions from researchers who began this REF cycle as ECRs: Cronin was a Royal
 Society Parliamentarian Pairing Scheme member, IMPACKT (www.impackt.org.uk) co-founder,
 and coordinated the British Council UK-Brazil ‘Researcher Links’ programme. Francis held an
 adjunct professor position at Rice University, a Derek Brewer visiting fellowship at Emmanuel
 College Cambridge, and invited visiting positions at Houston Methodist Hospital Research Institute
 and the New Zealand Institute of Plant and Food Research. Bodger is statistical consultant at
 Swansea Bay and Hywel Dda Health Boards. Whitten delivered plenary lectures at the Royal
 Society of Biology; International Molecular Plant Protection Congress, Turkey; and International
 Meeting of Biological, Biotechnological & Health Science, Brazil. Johnson won the EEMGS young
 scientist award in 2014. Clift was chair of the UK In Vitro Toxicology Society; member of the
 Expert Panel for NC3Rs UK on Nanotoxicology; an EU QualityNano Expert Group member, and
 won the British Toxicology Society ‘Early Career Researcher’ Award 2019 (Lecture at British
 Toxicology Society/UKEMS Joint Annual Conference, Oxford).
 We have included 10 current ECRs in our submission. Notable achievements include Fry’s
 membership of the SAGE COVID-19 sub-group on Care Homes. Webber was awarded a 5-year
 Prostate Cancer UK Career Development Fellowship. L Thomas was awarded a HCRW
 Research Fellowship. N Jones was lead author on a Nature Communications publication.
 Chapman won the 2016 Lush Prize awarded for contributions to animal replacements.
 Theofilopoulos and Angelini were awarded 5-year Sêr Cymru II Rising Star Fellowships. Jessop
 held a Fulbright Research Scholarship at Harvard. Zallot was awarded a Marie Skłodowska-Curie
 Actions Individual Fellowship. Obaid is simulator training lead for the Welsh Cardiovascular
 Society.


                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.8. Contributions to the Pandemic Response
 Welsh Government emergency scientific advice was led by the Technical Advisory Cell (TAC),
 with Gravenor, John and Lyons as members. John chaired the behavioural TAC sub-group and
 was a member of UK SPI-B, the Independent Scientific Pandemic Insights Group on Behaviours.
 Gravenor was a leading contributor to the TAC Modelling sub-group, and member of UK SPI-M
 (Scientific Pandemic Influenza Group on Modelling).
 Numerous SUMS staff were members of UK consortia, including BREATHE (HDRUK Hub for
 Respiratory Health), COVIDENCE (longitudinal risk) and CVD-COVID-UK (cardiovascular
 impact). A Davies, as HCRW Specialty Lead in Infection, supported recruitment for 65 COVID-19
 trials, including RECOVERY, which demonstrated dexamethasone efficacy.
 Showcasing the global importance of data processing and dissemination, SAIL took a leading role
 on data and infrastructure for national and international initiatives, including the ‘One-Wales’
 response (https://popdatasci.swan.ac.uk/news/one-wales/, the Data and Connectivity and
 Longitudinal Health themes of the National Core Studies initiative (UK Government), the CO-
 CONNECT serology data initiative, the COVID-19 Clinical Information Network, and the
 International COVID-19 Alliance and Workbench. As the partner Trusted Research Environment
 (TRE), SAIL provided access to >100 researchers to analyse the Zoe Symptom tracker for
 whole-UK coverage. SAIL responded to 180 COVID-19 data requests (e.g. from NICE, NHS
 Tower Hamlets, the Bradford Teaching Hospital Foundation Trust, Liverpool University, the Joint
 Biosecurity Centre, the Welsh Government, SPI-M and SAGE).
 As the most extensively linked secure platform in the Four Nations, SAIL had considerable
 influence as an exemplar for TRE development worldwide. On 6th July 2020 an open letter was
 published in the BMJ, “Reducing barriers to data access for research in the public interest –
 lessons from covid-19”. The following recommendation was made, signed by 374 cross-
 disciplinary researchers:
 “Independent, accredited data providers should be created, with expert processing and
 disseminating capacity, knowledge of how data are used in research and understanding of how
 best to prepare and deliver datasets to researchers, emulating the successful SAIL Databank in
 Wales”

 In 2019, SUMS celebrated its 15th anniversary. Over this period, we have rapidly established
 a vibrant research environment in which staff are valued, supported and make significant
 contributions to their research base. Our environment is well placed to ensure the future
 success, growth and sustainability of our research.




                                                                                         Page 21
